Gut-wrenchingly Terrible	At 89 minutes long ( including end credits ) you cannot expect anything more than for us to be robbed in broad daylight . Mike Myers is no great writer that's for damn sure . Apart from Austin Powers , Wayne Campbell , Axe Murderer and 54 has he ever been in a good movie ? No . Wayne's World is hardly a plot driven film . Neither are the Austin Powers movies . Or Axe Murderer . 54 is junk . He should not be a star . Or a Megastar ( which some people think he is ) . For example . . . in this film he and Liz Hurley are underground in the Nevada desert . She is wearing this silver two-piece costume . 2 minutes later she is back at the Riviera hotel in a leather costume and another 2 minutes later she's back underground in the Nevada desert ( ? ! ) . And another , there is no definitive version of this movie ( not that I actually care ) and almost every version has numerous added / deleted scenes . Why ? All this film is is an excuse to throw up some stupid humor and this is proof of it . But the worst part is how people STILL TO THIS DAY go " yeah baby " and all that nonsense . Ugh ! It makes me so mad . THAT is not comedy and it doesn't deserve to be treated so . When will it ever stop ? ? ? ? ? Never buy this or watch it . You have been warned .
My God , it's just . . . AWFUL ! ! !	I've never liked the Austin Powers movies ( or Mike Myers for that matter ) as they have always come across as being the product of an over-indulgent , but not very bright , imagination . They'll all so flimsy and crudely stapled together that it baffles me why people adore them and spend $200 million + at the box office . Are we so braindead and slovenly that utter , utter garbage like this is what passes for our collective sense of humor ? As previously , the film is just random scenes of nonsense connected in the most superficial of ways with a moronic ' plot ' . And don't give me ' but that's the point ' , because I don't think that excuses it for having absolutely no class or sophistication whatsoever . Everything , from the camp static sets to the pathetic widescreen photography reeks of Wal-Mart movie making . It's all so amateur . I actually walked out of the 2nd Austin Powers film ( and I really should have just switched this one off but Michael Caine kept me watching ) as the character of Fat Bastard seriously offended me . I don't think it's fair to make Scotland the butt of such a vile , xenophobic joke . But , I guess that's as far as Myer's imagination goes when creating characters as everyone here in this film is nothing more than a cultural stereotype . Quite irresponsible for a wannabe-blockbuster . I wish I could say that if I ignore a monster such as this , it would go away . But that just won't happen . Let's just thank our lucky stars that no more Austin Powers films have been made since this drek .
I've never been more bored in my life	I haven't read the books , so I'm not prejudiced in any way . But as someone who actually enjoyed the first one I was startled by how shockingly dull this snoozefest sequel is . I can sit here and spend an hour writing a review that tears the film apart bit by bit though , quite frankly , I have better things to do with my time so I will only focus on my biggest complaints . Yes , I know it's a film for kids and that it's rated PG but where is the blood ? Hundreds of people , humans and creatures alike , are felled in battle but there is not one drop of blood in the whole movie . What is this teaching our children about violence exactly ? Don't give me any nonsense about traumatizing them either . I saw Predator when I was a kid and I turned out fine . But this is Disney after all and the only people keeping them afloat as a studio are overprotective mothers who fear absolutely everything and are only too happy to spend money on movies and products that falsely suggest that the world is a magical and safe place ( this is what you call being ' Disneyfied ' ) and consider something as tame and boring as Prince Caspian to be dark and tough . " You may find Narnia a more savage place than you remember , " warns Aslan . Wow , does that mean that we'll be getting Rambo-level violence ? Sadly , no . However , more people are killed in this film . Can you work that out ? Because I can't . Since I haven't read the book I wasn't previously orientated as to who's who and what their motivations are , and the film doesn't make it any clearer I promise you . Far , far too often I found myself asking ' Who is he ? ' , ' Who are they ? ' , ' Why are all the bad guys identical to each other ? ' , ' Why are they the bad guys again ? ' . ' What do they want ? ' . ' Why are they all Spanish ? ' , ' Why are the kids still kids ? Shouldn't they return to Narnia as adults ? ' And so on . . . and so on . . . The only thing this film is good for is a cure for insomnia . I know that's a childish and crass and far from being a clever soundbite but it was so catatonic that it simply is not inspiring an intelligent review out of me . Whatever charm the first film had is well and truly gone , all that's left is some pretty scenery and that's not enough to keep me interested for well over two hours . Please Disney , don't even bother making the rest of them .
A beast from hell	You've not seen much worse than this ! The RoboCop franchise once held so much promise , so much potential . It quickly disintegrated into cheap kiddie garbage . The first RoboCop movie was awesome and is no doubt a cult classic . Almost immediately this was followed by a crudely animated cartoon show in 1988 and then , RoboCop 2 , the under-rated sequel was totally misunderstood on release but by the time RoboCop 3 came out Orion Pictures had long gone out of business and it was unceremoniously dumped into cinemas without any kind of ad campaign or publicity . Quite appropriate too as it's a moronic pile of crap aimed at the kids . And it got worse after that ! An uber-cheap , live-action TV-series came and went within a single season and yet another animated show 1998 ( selling RoboCop to the kids is like making Bratz dolls based on House of 1000 Corpses ! ) and one of the worst video-games ever in 2003 . If you think this franchise couldn't get any worse wait until you get a load of Prime Directives . It stomps what's left of Robo right into the maggot-infested mud . The story is hardly worth mentioning but if you're that interested it involves Robo feeling old and obsolete , Delta City politics ( now located in Canada , a poor substitute for the real Detroit ) and some crazed employee at OCP ( the company went out of business in RoboCop 3 ! ) trying to take over with his ultimate doomsday device . Robo's kid is now a fully-grown exec and his ex-partner ( a man with a very , very dodgy moustache ) has been killed and made into a new RoboCop . They drag this crap out over 375 minutes and you feel every precious second of it . I could forgive the cheapness if the makers were enthusiastic or spirited or if the actors weren't so bored they are about to keel over and die . The Robo suits look terrible and could fall apart at any minute . The nobody playing him makes Robert John Burke's performance in RoboCop 3 look Oscar-worthy . Instead of striding with a heaving titanium chest he kind of stumbles and bumbles like an old man without a zimmer-frame and has as much trouble ascending stairs as ED-209 did descending them . It's as if he was mimicking C-3PO . Say what you want about the declining quality of the films . At least they all had great music . Prime Directives has noise that is painful to the ears and lethal to the soul and mind . Goddamn , I want to erase this horrid mini-series from my memory but I can't . I need a shrink ! This junk should be scrapped and left to rust . Not even the most dedicated and forgiving RoboCop fan should suffer this guff . Wise people such as myself will realise this has as much to do with the TRUE RoboCop as Supergran does with Clark Kent .
Am I the only one who found this really offensive ?	I remember when I was 11 and in Primary Seven ( which works out at Sixth Grade if your American ) when our teacher took the class through to the screening room to watch yet another sex education video . By this point , even as a bunch of 11-year-olds , we were all pretty jaded by this constant sex-ed stuff and rolled our eyes at having to suffer yet more ( this continued all they way to late-High School BTW , which we all found quite odd ) . The video in question that day ( and many days after that ) was Feeling Yes , Feeling No ; a Canadian Stage play acted out in front of kids younger than us on what to do if an adult sexually harasses you . Just say ( or shout ) NO was the answer . It had the sophistication of a 16-mm interstitial on Seasame Street . I remember it vividly to this day . And I remember being very offended by it , along with a lot of the other boys in my class . The reason for this is that every scenario acted out is a man taking advantage of or abusing a girl . I mean , does it never happen the other way around ? Will a woman never abuse a boy ? This aspect was stupidly left out and made the series entirely one-sided and just plain wrong . Honestly . After watching all these us guys felt guilty for no reason . We had done nothing wrong but were made to feel like sexual predators all because of this stupid series . We were all quite downcast for a few days and repeatedly voiced our anger at the teacher who typically ignored us . Even the girls treated us differently , saying stuff like ' You're all rapists . ' Which is just plain wrong no matter what way you look at it . This series of ' educational ' films is wrong and hopelessly sexist . I am sure something this old is not shown in schools anymore and I pray that something more PC ( and trust me , I HATE PC ) is part of sex-ed now . Oh , and what a god-awful ' theme ' song too . I don't think I'll ever get it out of my head . Like the Macarena or Agadoo .
Am I the only one who found this really offensive ?	I remember when I was 11 and in Primary Seven ( which works out at Sixth Grade if your American ) when our teacher took the class through to the screening room to watch yet another sex education video . By this point , even as a bunch of 11-year-olds , we were all pretty jaded by this constant sex-ed stuff and rolled our eyes at having to suffer yet more ( this continued all they way to late-High School BTW , which we all found quite odd ) . The video in question that day ( and many days after that ) was Feeling Yes , Feeling No ; a Canadian Stage play acted out in front of kids younger than us on what to do if an adult sexually harasses you . Just say ( or shout ) NO was the answer . It had the sophistication of a 16-mm interstitial on Seasame Street . I remember it vividly to this day . And I remember being very offended by it , along with a lot of the other boys in my class . The reason for this is that every scenario acted out is a man taking advantage of or abusing a girl . I mean , does it never happen the other way around ? Will a woman never abuse a boy ? This aspect was stupidly left out and made the series entirely one-sided and just plain wrong . Honestly . After watching all these us guys felt guilty for no reason . We had done nothing wrong but were made to feel like sexual predators all because of this stupid series . We were all quite downcast for a few days and repeatedly voiced our anger at the teacher who typically ignored us . Even the girls treated us differently , saying stuff like ' You're all rapists . ' Which is just plain wrong no matter what way you look at it . This series of ' educational ' films is wrong and hopelessly sexist . I am sure something this old is not shown in schools anymore and I pray that something more PC ( and trust me , I HATE PC ) is part of sex-ed now . Oh , and what a god-awful ' theme ' song too . I don't think I'll ever get it out of my head . Like the Macarena or Agadoo .
Am I the only one who found this really offensive ?	I remember when I was 11 and in Primary Seven ( which works out at Sixth Grade if your American ) when our teacher took the class through to the screening room to watch yet another sex education video . By this point , even as a bunch of 11-year-olds , we were all pretty jaded by this constant sex-ed stuff and rolled our eyes at having to suffer yet more ( this continued all they way to late-High School BTW , which we all found quite odd ) . The video in question that day ( and many days after that ) was Feeling Yes , Feeling No ; a Canadian Stage play acted out in front of kids younger than us on what to do if an adult sexually harasses you . Just say ( or shout ) NO was the answer . It had the sophistication of a 16-mm interstitial on Seasame Street . I remember it vividly to this day . And I remember being very offended by it , along with a lot of the other boys in my class . The reason for this is that every scenario acted out is a man taking advantage of or abusing a girl . I mean , does it never happen the other way around ? Will a woman never abuse a boy ? This aspect was stupidly left out and made the series entirely one-sided and just plain wrong . Honestly . After watching all these us guys felt guilty for no reason . We had done nothing wrong but were made to feel like sexual predators all because of this stupid series . We were all quite downcast for a few days and repeatedly voiced our anger at the teacher who typically ignored us . Even the girls treated us differently , saying stuff like ' You're all rapists . ' Which is just plain wrong no matter what way you look at it . This series of ' educational ' films is wrong and hopelessly sexist . I am sure something this old is not shown in schools anymore and I pray that something more PC ( and trust me , I HATE PC ) is part of sex-ed now . Oh , and what a god-awful ' theme ' song too . I don't think I'll ever get it out of my head . Like the Macarena or Agadoo .
A bad sign !	I'm not one of these crazy people who go mental every time Hollywood remakes a movie . Such movies can be appropriate and interesting if they are brought into a contemporary setting or given a new political twist . But for every brilliant Dawn of the Dead there are a million pathetic Wicker Men or The Grudge . It's an easy , lucrative business practise but the shocking thing is how often directors screw it up when the template on how to make a good movie from the material is right there in front of them . Let me begin with saying that The Omen 2006 is , hands down , one of the worst films I have even seen in my life . Simply saying this is an understatement , I left it feeling insulted , offended and angry . But I don't want to waste energy and word-space aptly describing how wretchedly incompetent the film is at absolutely everything so we'll leave it at that . It's been over a decade since I saw the original , I was about 12 when I caught it on TV late one Saturday night . It would probably wouldn't scare me now but I was mildly freaked out by it then . With Richard Donner behind the camera you can rely on it being a strong movie regardless of the scares . Working from , more or less , the exact script , hack , nobody director John Moore hasn't got a rat-arsed clue and makes a mess of this from the very beginning . Ditching the scope-widescreen photography of the original he shoots the film in plain old 1 . 85 : 1 , which would be fine if he did something slightly artistic with it . But instead he gives us the blandest cinematography possible and it looks incredibly TV-movie-ish . Which is weird considering his cheap , Wal-Mart widescreen photography in Behind Enemy Lines and Flight of the Phoenix ( another remake ) . Every single ' scare ' he has up his sleeve is no more than an amateurish , simple-minded ' stinger ' which you will ALWAYS see coming because they only ' work ' when they are put into a scene of total silence . So whenever there is a sudden silence in the movie , prepare for the ' boo ' . I can't see any reason why any of the cast would appear in this drek other than the fat paycheck . Liev Schreiber sleepwalks his way through almost entirely monosyllabic role ( or perhaps he's just a terrible actor ) while surrounded by a bunch of equally stupid characters who deserve to die for being so foolish . All the slasher-movie elements are in place here eh ? That's all it is . Considering the material there was so much potential for so much more . How about some insight into the inner workings of heaven and hell ? How about the tiniest bit of plot logic ? Where's the atmosphere ? But no ! They chuck it all away because their imagination and creativity cannot stretch that far and serve up yet another bog-standard , run-of-the-mill crap-fest that will only appeal to brain-dead philistines . Marco Beltrami's generic score ( is this man capable of anything else ? ) is almost as bad Moore's direction ( if you can call it that ) . Once again , here we have so much potential for a great score ( Jerry Goldsmith knew this and won an Academy Award for the original ) , but you need talent to do this or care about the project instead of just being involved for the sake of food and heat . Nobody , NOBODY , from the director all the way down to the dolly grip , gave anything to this far inferior remake . It was a chore to make and a chore to sit through . Of all the terrible remakes that have come and gone in recent years ( it's frightening how many there are now ) this one has to be the most pointless . How stupid do they think we are ? Who on earth would fall for this crap ? John Moore has insulted both God AND The Devil with this garbage . I could give you 666 reasons why you shouldn't watch this movie . But I'm almost out of word-space . Beware !
Am I the only one who found this really offensive ?	I remember when I was 11 and in Primary Seven ( which works out at Sixth Grade if your American ) when our teacher took the class through to the screening room to watch yet another sex education video . By this point , even as a bunch of 11-year-olds , we were all pretty jaded by this constant sex-ed stuff and rolled our eyes at having to suffer yet more ( this continued all they way to late-High School BTW , which we all found quite odd ) . The video in question that day ( and many days after that ) was Feeling Yes , Feeling No ; a Canadian Stage play acted out in front of kids younger than us on what to do if an adult sexually harasses you . Just say ( or shout ) NO was the answer . It had the sophistication of a 16-mm interstitial on Seasame Street . I remember it vividly to this day . And I remember being very offended by it , along with a lot of the other boys in my class . The reason for this is that every scenario acted out is a man taking advantage of or abusing a girl . I mean , does it never happen the other way around ? Will a woman never abuse a boy ? This aspect was stupidly left out and made the series entirely one-sided and just plain wrong . Honestly . After watching all these us guys felt guilty for no reason . We had done nothing wrong but were made to feel like sexual predators all because of this stupid series . We were all quite downcast for a few days and repeatedly voiced our anger at the teacher who typically ignored us . Even the girls treated us differently , saying stuff like ' You're all rapists . ' Which is just plain wrong no matter what way you look at it . This series of ' educational ' films is wrong and hopelessly sexist . I am sure something this old is not shown in schools anymore and I pray that something more PC ( and trust me , I HATE PC ) is part of sex-ed now . Oh , and what a god-awful ' theme ' song too . I don't think I'll ever get it out of my head . Like the Macarena or Agadoo .
Pant-wettingly hilarious	There's no new bad things I can say about this film as they are all pretty much common knowledge ( like how can someone have flashbacks of events they never witnessed ? ) . But I will say that no collection is complete without this movie . It is so wretchedly bad it's funny . First of all , hardly anybody gets eaten . After Jaws gobbles up the youngest Brody son Mom goes on a holiday to get away from Amity Island and it's history . . . to the Bahamas ! Total change of scenery huh ? Jaws follows . How ? Don't ask me . And he gets there in a day when it would take any ordinary shark about a week minimum . Her elder son works as a marine biologist ( surely being attacked by sharks in the first two movies would put him off going in the ocean ) and is studying sea snails ( presumably he got fired from Sea World after Jaws 3 ) . By pure coincidence ( or contrivance ) , Jaws shows up and pokes his nose into the sea snail research . The shark looks sooooooooooooo fake . It's very obviously nothing but foam rubber with plastic teeth . And it's incredibly stupid . The shark in the first film ( and in the surprisingly good second ) seemed to be kind of smart and cunning . But now it's just a big lumbering idiot . Why on earth Michael Caine agreed to be in this is beyond me . He even couldn't get to the Oscars to accept his award for Hannah and her Sisters because he was too busy filming this turkey . And the story with him dating Mom Brody takes up a tremendous amount of the film's running time and ends up turning it into a soap opera . The worst thing tho , isn't the elder Brody son's beard or Mario Van Peebles ' Jamaican accent . It's the ending . Let me explain what happens . . . Jaws stands on his tail ! On the Water ! ! Roars like a Lion ! ! ! Is stabbed by the broken mast of a ship . . . . . . and explodes ! ! ! ! Of course ! Where on earth the idea for that ending came from is probably best kept a mystery . The fact that it recycles footage from the first film into this ending is a mockery of the original's genius . It should also be noted that this version includes the happy ( alternate ) ending in Mario Van Peebles survives being chomped across the belly by the big fish . This new DVD release by Universal improves upon the shoddy , OOP Goodtimes release . Gone is the snapper cover , now we have a sturdy keepcase . The picture is now anamorphic and although the 2 . 35 : 1 frame has some dirt on it , it's rather sharp . The Dolby 2 . 0 soundtrack is just about average though . The only extra is a trailer .
Awful , just awful	This should not have made so much money . We were robbed . There is no plot and no comedy . Why did people flock to see this crap ? It truly is the worst thing ever created . Adam Sandler is the most untalented comic actor in history . He got paid $20 million for this waste of celluloid . What a travesty . There are people starving in this world and to think of such an uncharismatic actor , who has basically coasted his way into stardom , earning that amount of money for pulling a few faces and doing a stupid voice makes me sick . An utter , utter , utter pile of total , 100 % , bonafide , no doubt about it , absolute crap . Never , ever see for any reason .
Really , really bad film !	There was a time , long , long ago when the Silver Screen was reserved for for classics , for art , for the Golden Age of Hollywood . Those days are long gone . But at least movies had that special time . Video Games will never be regarded in this way . No matter how realistic and frightening the Resident Evil games can be the world of gaming will never be able to shed the geeky image of friendless , degenerate nerds playing for 11-hours straight . There's no glamour or admiration to be had here . And with the worlds of movies and video games merging closer and closer together ( whether we like it or not ) we can only expect a Sonic the Hedgehog live action movie soon ( and some studio exec will probably cast Ben Affleck in the title role ) . I may sound like I'm talking nonsense , but , when you think about it . . . not really . We've already had a Super Mario Bros . movie and Double Dragon and Mortal Kombat : Annihilation and Alone in the Dark . The first Resident Evil movie was no classic that's for damn sure but it's still a far superior film to this drek . Resident Evil : Apocalypse is so wantonly awful it's almost on par with House of the Dead . No joke ! These zombies are not scary ! At all ! Dawn of the Dead this ain't . For an R-rated movie the violence is blurred and confusing , why even bother with the swearing if that is really all that is keeping it from being a PG-13 ? It's shot and cut with no skill whatsoever . The plot makes no sense at all and there are frequent gaps in logic that even the most ignorant viewer can point out . Like why do the long-dead people in the graveyard ( conveniently buried underneath only a few centimetres of loose dirt ) suddenly come back to life when the T-virus is only supposed to be transfered through blood infection ? And that was only just one part of a ' plot ' that was constant nonsense . And by the end it was so far removed from the ( better ) story of the video games that the ' Resident Evil ' title is really no more than a way of selling nonsense to people who expect and deserve something else . Don't get me started on the characters ! All I can say about them is that they might as well have been polygons . I know I'm not being really original when I say this movie is like watching a bunch of cut-scenes from a video game but . . . it is . It is totally NOT worth your time or money . Do not even give in to curiosity . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and ( my version had ) Dolby EX / DTS ES 6 . 1 sound . Plus a bunch of extras I care not for .
Mother Theresa in a gangbang ! What is this ? ? ?	Either Steven Seagal has absolutely NO self-respect or the Mob were just too damn scary for him when it came to signing the contract for this total pile of crap . They couldn't even be bothered to come up with an good title . Instead the took Hard to Kill and Out for Justice and combined them ( Hard to Justice ? ) . But don't even think for one minute that this film is up to the standards of Seagal's golden years . You'll NEVER see anything worse than this . Well , Son of the Mask maybe . Seagal plays an archaeologist ( well , it's a change from Cop or ex-CIA ) who's precious Chinese artifacts and pots are seized by the Tong ( the non-threatening Chinese Syndicate baddies ) and stuffed with brown sugar ( or cocaine , I don't know ) . Big Steve stumbles upon this dastardly deed and takes off for the Uzbekistan border . A hundred baddies come out of nowhere and start firing at him . Big Steve is promptly framed and sent to jail , where he meets a character introduced as his new sidekick but is quickly forgotten about and never seen or heard from again . What the hell was the point in this ? It turns out that Steve used to be in the CIA ( oh for the love of crumb cake ) and was their best ghost thief ( huh ? ) and the DEA release him for some reason and he goes home to his quiet American suburb , where the Tong blow up his wife and house . Steve goes on a killing spree . But what helps is that every Chinaman who's neck he breaks has a one-word tattoo on his arm that when added up makes an ancient Chinese proverb that provides the right order of tiles to push in case of fire in the Tong bosses office . What ? Don't look at me ! I didn't write this ! The bad guys don't do anything apart from sit at a long table in a poorly-lit and cold-looking room and smoke cigars while looking evil . The boss isn't even Chinese but an Ian Hislop-lookalike with bushy eyebrows . Every 10 minutes the film will jump to them ( subtitles list their hobbies and interests for some strange reason ! ) and the boss goes ' We have to stop him , he knows too much ' . The fight scenes are horrible . What is the deal with the kung-fu monkey barber ? Seriously ! What is the deal with that ? The computer-generated effects are the worst ever ( second to Son of the Mask , nothing will beat that in terms of terribleness ) . I've seen more convincing stuff on a ZX Spectrum . Seagal puts NO effort into this film . He looks incredibly bored through-out and looks like he'd rather be praying to Budda . However , you can almost see Frankie Fingers from The Mob loitering off-camera , pointing a gun at his head . I know I wouldn't show enthusiasm if that were the case . Out for a Kill is directed by Mike Oblonglowiscz , the same amateur responsible for the equally as horrible The Foreigner . The man has NO idea how to make films and should never be allowed near a camera again . He desperately tries to mime Michael Bay ( a dubious choice of inspiration ) with his pointless stutter-cuts and incoherent editing which only makes the film look worse , turning it into an avalanche on top of another avalanche . It's quite possibly one of the ugliest-looking film you'll ever see . Considering some of the high-profile and veteran production members it's phenomenal they made a film so indescribably bad . Eternal , everlasting shame on all those involved with making this trash . Utter crap of the lowest order . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen , showing off the ugly photography and poorly planned camera angles in all their rubbishy glory . The Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack also turns the films unbelievably bad sound design into pure torture for the ears . The cover also features 2 exploding helicopters . There are no helicopters in the entire film , never mind exploding ones .
Tedious	Boy was I disappointed at this movie . This is the pits . Nothing happens in this film . Watching grass grow is more interesting . There was a little bit of gunplay at the start but for about 100 minutes all we get is a scene of dialogue , followed by a scene of dialogue , followed by a scene of dialogue , followed by a scene of dialogue , followed by a scene of dialogue , followed by a scene of dialogue and by this point I'm dying of sheer boredom . Writer and Director McQuarrie tries to make up for this by having the last scene filled with noise and gunfire . It doesn't work . He also tries to make the ( superficial ) dialogue sound cool by having it said very , very quiet and muttered . The photography is quite cool and some shots of the desert at night are great . But that's no reason to watch this awful mess . The only thing about this film that stopped me from walking out was the presence of Geoffrey Lewis . The scenes where he couldn't get his cell phone working were pretty funny to me .
Rancid	Oh Mother Nature , why was this garbage made ? Why on Earth was such a blasphemous travesty unleashed upon the world ? This film is a foul weed deep in the bowels of Satan . I would rather walk off a cliff than watch this total , total Spam again . Tim Burton's Gothic style from the first 2 films was great but here Joel Schumacher replaces that with bright , happy colors and many , many multicoloured dancing lights . Why ? It's looks so stupid and so camp . So much so that it makes the original series look Butch . George Clooney is terrible . Chris O'Donnell is even worse . Alicia Silverstone is there for no reason other than to make guys see it . Arnie is bad , bad , bad . Uma Thurman is some sort of plant ? I dunno . The jokes are brazenly awful . And Bruce Wayne is ? normal . Batman is not the weirdo he once was . Why doesn't he just become Barman instead ? In BATMAN RETURNS he completely ignored Selina Kyle the first time he met her , despite the fact that she was smitten by him . But in this movie he's like ' Hi I'm Batman , I have unlimited credit on my Credit Batcard . Never , ever , ever , ever , ever watch this ugly , ugly and twisted pile of trash .
Really bad	A surprisingly poor sequel this time . Offering us nothing new and no excitement . Set in the 1800's , the town of Perfection , then called Rejection , is becoming a ghost town because the Graboids are gobbling up all the mine workers . The mine owner ( Hiram Gummer-Burt's ancestor and complete opposite ) comes to town to sort out the problem but proves to be useless . He hires a notorious gunman ( the ever-evil Billy Drago ) but he proves to be useless too . What is weird about this film is that it provides NO set-pieces for our characters to do anything or prove themselves . Nothing happens and the film seems to drag on for ages with long periods of no Graboid action whatsoever . Weird considering it's directed by SS Wilson who did the Tremors 2 and 3 . It doesn't feel like a Tremors film at all . Where's the fun in watching a bunch of period characters learn what we've long known about the mysterious Graboids ? Michael Gross is great as Hiram in regards to playing the complete opposite of what he is popular for and showing some range as an actor . But he just doesn't do anything . There is no reason to watch this film . Plus it's not shot on 35mm film but with a TV camera . The 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic picture proves this only further . It really does look like a feature length episode of the Tremors TV show ( which I don't think I'll get if it's anything like this , assuming it ever comes to DVD at all ) and it's very distracting . The sound is in Dolby 5 . 1 and is quite good during the tunnelling and gunfire scenes but it's not reference quality stuff by any means .
Very slow and boring	This film was slower than an elderly turtle . Never before have I seen a film that threatened to keel over and die so soon . It takes a healthy 45 minutes before George and Mark get to sea . And when they eventually do it's really not so spectacular . In fact it's slushier and sickeningly sentimental than it is exciting . Plus it's full of very , very bad dialogue . The dialogue is so poor me and my friends were in total hysterics . It was SO bad . The actual storm itself was quite tame to me . The only nauseating thing about it was the idiotically high volume . If a film is not exciting enough in it's basic story the soundtrack has to bombard us deafening noises . The characters made stupid illogical decisions and some don't even do much . The only thing about this film that surprised me was how much William Fichtner has built up his body since Go or Armageddon . Don't see this film for any reason .
What am I supposed to do ?	It seems like some sort of Lemmings rip-off but I can't for the life of me figure out how to work this game . The instructions do not tell you what you're supposed to do or how to play the game . It just said , ' Krusty's house is filled with rats ' . The gameplay itself is pretty bad . The Krusty character sprite is far too small and the level ( the only one I can reach seeing as how I can't get past it ) has bland graphics and sound . Honestly , save your dough for something else . Something that tells you how to play the game . Of all the Simpsons titles to be released as a video game this is surely the worst .
80's drivel ironically made in the late 90's	Oh the humanity , this film is incredibly dire . Chris Tucker was bad enough when he was in the Fifth Element but someone's decision to put him in another movie and pair him up with Jackie Chan was certainly a wrong one . It's cool to see and hear Jackie speak English but every time Tucker opened his mouth everyone in the audience squirmed . I haven't seen such nausea since THE CARE BEARS MOVIE 2 . The plot ( ? ) in this film is pure , unimaginative and uninspired trash and the title is also completely meaningless . There is NO rush hour and just because Jun Tao's sidekick says that it's rush hour in a very short scene ( even when there's no traffic ) there is no reason for this film to have such a useless name . The writers ( did this have any ) didn't care much about naming there baby . I would need 10 hands to count the amount of movies that I have seen that end with the bad guy's suitcase full of money ( highly clichéd ) raining down on the hero . The action is clumsy and badly handled . Even Chan's acrobatics lack the edge they have in his Cantonese movies . This may have been a cool movie if John Woo had directed it and dragged it out of the gutter but Brett Ratner cannot direct even traffic . Especially at rush hour .
What , in the eternal majesty of God's wonder , is this ? ? ?	A ' fun ' arcade game it may well have been in it's day , but one cannot play Moonwalker today without feeling dirty or somewhat guilty . Based on the ' movie ' of the same name , Moonwalker is just as weird , bizarre and outrageously self-glorifying as Wacko Jacko himself . You take on the role of a suspected pedo , dressed in a white gangster suit , who must rescue children ( hidden in closets , drawers , garbage cans ) from the evil Mr . Big . Upon being rescued these kids respond joyously with ' MICHAEL ' , knowing that they are now safe with the King of Pop . You need to rescue all the little sprogs in every level before you meet the end-level boss . But some children are too well hidden . And who IS this Mr . Big exactly . The Jacko of 1989 fighting against a child-napper , who's motives for stealing kids is unknown in the game , seems prophetic in a split-personality kind of way . Just like in Thriller where he played a ghoulish , inhuman beast , eerily foreshadowing the future . The gameplay itself is ludicrous . As you ( moon ) walk across the various levels ( some generic , some inspired by his ' classic ' music videos ) you'll encounter baddies like gangsters and zombies and your amazing way of killing them is . . . dancing them do death . Seriously ! It's not Jesus Juice , it's Jacko Jamming ! You hit the special attack button and Jacko will suddenly yell ' OW ! ' before strutting his lethal stuff . After which , the baddies will be vanquished somehow . After playing this game you'll be exhilarated and mentally exhausted at Jacko's killer moves . You'll be reduced to a dribbling wreck . He's so good , that even passing-by animals will join in and shake their asses . If you ever wanted to play a game in which even an innocent dog is hypnotised by Jacko into dancing Thriller then this is for you . But I don't want to know you . The music is no more than low-quality samples of Smooth Criminal and Thriller , as you should know this music follows Jacko everywhere he goes in real life and will change depending on where he is . In the later levels , if you catch a falling star Jacko will turn into a huge robot . Of course . Like in the film , I just can't get over the feeling that Jacko only included this because he wants to see himself 100 feet high . It's ridiculous and has nothing to do with anything ! But in a moronic , hopelessly out-dated video game I suppose it's okay . It was kind of easy to finish too and I never really played it again afterwards . But these days , it leaves a bad taste in your mouth and I can understand why no one would want to play it again . Graphics C Sound C Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Worst Scooby Doo ever .	Eesh ! What is this supposed to be ? Shaggy and Scooby's solo outings usually make for good movies . But Ghoul School comes nowhere near the surprisingly good Boo Brothers or Reluctant Werewolf and is so far behind modern Scooby Doo animation . It really is the cheapest , shoddiest Scooby effort I've ever seen . There isn't even a mystery , thus explaining the lack of the Mystery Machine ( an ugly red van is the replacement ) . So why on earth they bothered to make this a Scooby Doo movie is puzzling if they weren't deliberately exploiting a popular character . It's just all wrong ! Shaggy gets a job in an all-girl ( actually Ghoul ) school teaching Phys . Ed . I'm sorry but when did Shaggy become a qualified Gym Teacher ? There's some pointless story involving a volleyball competition with a Military School next door that isn't good enough to distract from the bore and then after that some old hag called Revolta turns up and turns them all into zombies . Uh . . . yeah . Shaggy obviously saves the day but by this point I had dozed off . It bored me to sleep ! The 1 . 33 : 1 full frame picture shows how cruddy the animation is and the sound is plain old mono . Aside from the usual ' how to draw ' extras this DVD also features a trailer that cheekily uses lots of footage of modern Scooby animation and mixes it with Ghoul School to make it look new . I wasn't fooled . Don't buy this . Rent it for the kids if there is really nothing else .
Shockingly bad !	It's frightening to think that if this movie was never made we would never have been subjected to the dreck that is Halloween 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 . And the double shame is that even tho the story here is silly it is at least interesting . The continuation of this was the only decent thing about Halloween 5 and it may well have been good in 6 too but that movie all rearranged and jumbled before it hit out screens . So what we have here is a collection of dull murders with bad story continuity . H20 and Resurrection pretended that 4 , 5 and 6 never happened . There is no REAL backbone or history to this series . All they represent is a producer who asks us to pay money for the same thing over and over . We cannot use photocopied money to pay for our tickets at the box office so the movie-makers owe us something new . And in Halloween 4 we don't get it . In fact I'm sure that to the untrained eye Halloween 4 and 5 could very well be the same movie . And it is SO slow ! Nothing really happens for about 70 minutes worth of the movies 88 minute running time . It leaves you begging for a Jason Voorhees style mass murder spree . That does not happen I'm sorry to say . The movie cuts away at the point of every death and when it doesn't the deaths are dull and boring . A man is thrown onto an electrical power grid and . . . sparks fly . That's it ? How about his face melting or at least getting set on fire ? Plus the body count is shockingly low . What is up with the thumb thru the head ? Not only is it badly shot , too quick and just plain puzzling ( surely a quick neck snap would be easier and nastier ) the physical possibilities of it match hammering a tack into a concrete slab . It just can't happen . I don't care how superhuman Michael Myers unexplained powers are . The whole ' motiveless psycho ' may have worked well in Carpenter's original but here it's asking for money for old rope . Carpenter used it to great effect and scriptwriter Alan B . McElroy ( responsible for some awesome Spawn episodes ) uses it as an excuse for lazy , unimaginative writing . Tho he has the scriptwriters strike to blame as he beat the deadline by mere hours . But even a few hours worth more imagination could have made this the tiniest bit better . There's just not much for Myers to do . He comes out of a coma , goes back to Haddonfield and kills . For no reason . There are no sets other than houses and no opportunity for big excitement or set-pieces . I'm sorry but the ' famous ' rooftop scene is boring , badly rehearsed and badly shot . Director Dwight H . Little ( Marked For Death , Murder at 1600 ) even throws in a 10 second scene in an Elementary school for no reason . Plus the only shot of Michael in this shows him with WHITE hair on his mask . A pretty big goof , lookout for it . Out of all the lessons in how to make an effective horror film that were were taught in the first film none of them are really echoed here . Slasher flicks by their very nature are low brow but Carpenter had a simplistic purity and charm that made it work . Plus he filmed the movie in Panavision which instantly gives it some class . Plus he used the widescreen framing well . Dwight H . Little seems oblivious to this and instead uses standard 1 . 85 : 1 widescreen with no particular flare . And I must mention the very poor dialogue . It offers no insight into the lives of the teenagers in the story or provides them with extra character . Why are we supposed to care when they get killed . It's obvious from the beginning that they are nothing but fodder for Michael Myers . And it's a crime that when they die it's not even graphic or ugly in the slightest . Just boring and badly shot . It's not a horror film because nothing horrifies or upsets other than paying money to see it . Stay well away . Go watch a Friday the 13th movie and see the J-Man do his thing . Anchor Bay presents this DVD in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen . The print is grainy and rather dirty . Nothing of reference quality . Sorry . There soundtrack has been remastered in Dolby Digital 5 . 1 from the original Ultra Stereo tracks . It's good enough . One hardly expects a sophisticated soundtrack from a film of this nature . In fact I prefer it to the obnoxiously loud sound designs of more recent slasher flicks . A 16 minute documentary , offering new interesting insight to the movie , is included . The participants don't have much to say and seem to regard the film in a higher manner than it deserves . An original theatrical poster replica poses as the cover on a ' 4-page booklet ' ( wow-1 sheet of paper ) containing some more info about the movie . The DVD itself comes in one of those beautiful Limited Edition Tins . My copy is number 05 , , 000 .
Tedious	Why on earth was this film made ? It has NOTHING to do with the last 5 Halloween movies and is NOT scary or frightening or worth any attention . Well , maybe that's a lie . Michelle Williams is worth attention and is the only reason for watching this piece of cp . But it's not like she's in it much . The film is only 84 minutes long and has about 5 scenes . I don't even consider this to be an official Halloween movie . It was only made to cash in on the ' Scream ' craze of teenagers being staked by a masked killer . Seeing as how Halloween was the very first Slasher flick I guess Miramax thought that this would be the Zenith of the craze . How wrong they were . All deaths are pointless and meaningless and Jamie-Lee's attempt at being a Ripley-like chick with balls doesn't work . Plain and simple . File this movie under bad . Really , really bad . Jason Voorhees , come back , all is forgiven .
Bo-oring !	Back in 1993 Sega released a dull , lackluster video game of one of the biggest films of all time . Quickly realizing their mistake they hashed out a different version of the game , claiming it would be bigger , tougher and better . Neither were . Both were slow , boring games . You can choose to be either Dr . Alan Grant or . . . a Raptor . Both have their problems . Why would Dr . Grant go around killing all those army guys ( just what are they doing in the game ) ? And why a Raptor be killing other Raptors ? Weird . Obviously not learning from their first mistake Sega really dropped the ball on the original release and the so-called Rampage Edition . One of the slowest , sluggish and dullest platformers I have ever played .
Amazingly bad !	( There may be some spoilers here so beware . ) Honestly , I thought it was a joke . I really didn't think this was seriously the movie everyone raved about . It's TERRIBLE ! I mean it's really , REALLY bad . How on earth ANYBODY could enjoy this film is far beyond my vast , vast , incredibly vast understanding . It so bad you cannot even laugh AT it . First of all the film's so called ' gritty ' look is , plain and simple , the result of the shoddiest photography this side of 70's [ adult films ] . The framing is horrifically composed and makes a drunken wedding video look like Laurence of Arabia . The sound is inaudible and the dialogue , worthless as it is , is nothing more than mumbles . As the ' story ' develops so does the incomprehension . Mid-way through you'll tell yourself ' This cannot become anymore senseless . ' Well it does . By the end you'll be completely lost and then . . . it's over . Just like that . I was assuming there was half an hour left but it just ends without resolving anything or giving us the payoff we deserve . What a rip-off ! There is also ZERO suspense . Characters are killed almost right away leaving no room for excitement . Plus there is only ONE massacre with a chainsaw and you don't even see anything and it mostly occurs off camera . The final chase with the one character that actually gets some interaction with the bad guy is obviously the best bit of the movie but by this point I just wanted it to be over . I've no idea why so many people say this is a great movie or call it ' horror with a dark comic edge ' . It's nothing of the sort . It's an embarrassingly amateur schlockfest that Ed Wood himself would disown . Check out the 2003 remake which is a zillion times the movie this dreadful nonsense is . Do not come within a mile of this ! You have been warned .
Mind-numbingly awful !	I will not spend too long reviewing this turd as I am still very annoyed that I spend 90 minutes of my precious time watching it . Instead I will simply say that Man-Thing is not only the worst comic-book movie ever made , but it is also one of the worst films ever made ever . I cannot believe that utter trash like this comes to DVD but Howard the Duck does not . Set in the Deep South but filmed in Austrailia with Ozzie soap actors ( who are so expressionless and wooden you can almost see the sawdust flaking off them ) the film is an hour and a half of the most mundane , generic blandness you could ever imagine . Almost nothing happens as characters sleepwalk from scene to scene , all being pointlessly killed by a pointless monster . Brett ( I've never directed a good film in my life ) Leonard shoots the film like a TV movie with either a green filter or an orange filter over the lens ( oooh . . . how atmospheric ) as his only means of ' sophistication ' . The man began life with The Lawnmower man , so he didn't really have so far to fall before making this pile of crap . My God , it's just so bad . Never waste time or money on this . I beg you !
What the . . . ? ? ?	As a huge fan of the original arcade game I was astounded at how awful ( and weird ) this threequel . The gameplay is non-existent . For a side-scrolling beat-'em-up this fails to be engaging on every level ( pun intended ) . There is NO skill involved in any of it . Most punches and kicks fail to connect , none of the enemies differentiate from each other and it's too slow and sluggish . In fact it's a lot like the terrible Double Dragon game on the Commodore 64 . A game so bad it's been the butt of many thousands of jokes since I first got it FOURTEEN YEARS AGO ! I just don't understand what's going on in this game . Who is the creepy little E . T . guy ? Why do big hands and cubes of non-moving / threatening concrete ( ! ) come out the ground to kill you ? What's the deal with the headless ninja corpses that turn into tree trunks when you kill them ? I kid you not , this game is one of the most baffling artifacts in the whole universe . Forget the Turin Shroud . If you like the genre play the Streets of Rage games and forget this travesty . It's amazing games this bad are made .
Horrible film with terrible acting	Never before have a seen a film that has been RUINED so much by the AWFUL teenagers ( ? ) on display . They have nothing to do with the plot and contribute nothing to the film . All they do is run around throwing up appalling dialogue , most of which is shockingly bad ADR . There is a massive scene in a barn , which has nothing to do with anything , and is really only there to pad the film . They ruin the entire movie and I was VERY disappointed . The scenes with Michael Myers ( now played by Don Shanks instead of George P . Wilbur ) , Doctor Loomis and Jamie are the only reason I didn't eject this film . They are the saving grace of this movie . But , unfortunately , all the grace in the Universe cannot make us forgive this film for having such POINTLESS and MEANINGLESS characters who turn it from almost a ' psychological horror ' to a ' sub-standard cliché ' . It's a shame . Halloween 4 , 5 and 6 started an ongoing plot line that was ignored in the abysmal Halloween H20 and it was also cut to shreds in the severely edited and re-arranged Halloween 6 : The Curse of Michael Myers . The fact that 4 , 5 and 6 could have been very good makes this film worthy of attention . The fact that 4 , 5 and 6 suck is the fault of the creators .
Worst film I will EVER see .	I can't understand why this film was made . It's so appalling and so bad that someone involved in the production must have noticed something . Everything in every area of filmmaking is wrong with Ballistic : Ecks vs Sever . Even the title as Banderas and Liu are not in competition with each other . Here's the plot . Oh , wait a minute , I can't tell you what the plot is because it doesn't exist . It just a massive load of old cobblers . And what's even worse is that the nonexistent plot is full of holes . Make sense ? No didn't think so . It's not even worth watching to see what I mean . The dialogue is the truly worst ever . At least the bad dialogue in movies such as Dolemite is eternally quotable . Ray Park's ' acting ' makes Jean Claude Van Damme and Steven Seagal on their worst day look like Laurence Olivier . The ' action ' is so basic it feels like a made for video production , it lacks anything resembling sophistication and excitement . I'm surprised Alan B . McElroy wrote this . He's done some good stuff ( Wrong Turn , Spawn Animated Series ) but this must have been something he wrote without much inspiration . Every writer comes up with a turkey but WHAT a turkey this is . Still , a bad script can sometimes make for a good movie if the delivery and direction has skill behind it . that ain't the case here . Positive energy does not surround this film ! The DVD is in Dolby 5 . 1 and 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen .
Pointless potboiler	Agent Cody Banks 2 is , with no doubt , the most useless , redundant and unasked-for sequel since WWII . No one wanted a sequel and the only reason it exists is to cash in on the modest , modest , incredibly modest ' success ' of the original . The plan didn't work as this quite deservedly bombed horribly . Even in the 2-second gap between this and the first Frankie Munitz hasn't aged well . And he's quite aggravating . Hilary Duff wisely bailed out and her character is replaced by some untalented non-celeb former pop-babe . Another sign of desperation is the casting of Anthony Anderson ( who SERIOUSLY doesn't belong in this ) , a talented funnyman who is increasingly finding himself the ONLY funny thing and a series of bad movies . Plus it's one of those typically xenophobic movies under the wild belief that everyone in Britain rides around on red buses , has tea with the queen every night and is either very posh or cockney . I'm sorry , but I have been on the London Eye and I KNOW the recorded female voice does not sound like that . They changed in the movie to sound ' posher ' . Unbelievable ! This is one ' franchise ' that has died a quick , but painful death .
This is such a horrible game !	Ugh ! I remember seeing a review for this game in the old ' Mega ' magazine from Future Publishing back in 1993 . They gave it a bad review but I was still keen to play it as I like most Bond movies and the graphics looked bright and colorful . Well , it took me 12 years to get the game for a decent price ( that would be 99p instead of £39 : 99 ) and I must tell you right now that the game IS rancid and I can't believe that rotten junk like this used to sell for such a high RRP . The story involves Bond running all over an island complex defusing bombs and rescuing generic blonde bimbos ( Bond girls ? ) and shooting at generic villains . It's extremely dull . And what makes it worse is that the music is also downright horrible , the sound effects are laughable ( checkout the sound of ' going downstairs footsteps ) and the controls are stiff , slow and sluggish . Which is pretty much the kiss of death for an action game that relies on quick reflexes . The levels are also poorly designed . Yes , it's a platformer , but you never know which platforms you can stand on and which you'll just fall through . It's so annoying and will cost you many lives . Plus , some things you can walk through , while others are impenetrable . Each level is a maze without meaning to be . And since the game is so very , very slow , making your way through them becomes a long and arduous task . Never buy this game for any reason . Stay well away from it . It sucks so bad . Graphics C Sound F Gameplay F Lasting Appeal
Ew !	This is the worst game . I guess the first Galaxy Force game was so good it warranted a sequel . I'm not kidding when I say I made games better than this in 10 minutes on my old Commodore 64 . I just unearthed this rubbish today after doing a little spring cleaning . I remembered it being trash but just needed to play it a little to jog my memory as to why . Basically , all you do in this game is fly thru a ' 3-dimensional ' generic space level shooting things . You never miss . Even if you are in the top right or bottom left firing in the wrong direction , whatever boring weapon you have will eventually kill the non-threatening baddies . There's no story , just shooting . And the graphics are horrible . On the first level when you ' penetrate the enemy fortress ' the worst graphics ever make an appearance . Ugh ! It was horrid . To think that the RRP of this game was £39 . 99 when it was first released . I'm glad I never bought it . It just sort of appeared in my house . Trust me , it really is rank ! The arcade version may well have been good but the Sega Genesis version has it's own spot in hell .
Can anyone say " Rip off " ?	Take two infinitely more superior films called " The Ice Storm " and " Happiness " and mix them together in a bowl . Add a touch . Just a touch of Alan Ball's imagination and you have " American Beauty " . The most over-hyped and over-praised film I've seen in my life . In one measly little sentence . . . this film is NOT new . I've seen it all before and better in the aforementioned films . While I do think that the cinematography and color design was the best thing about the film the absolute worst was the rest . There is not any film out there that can be as pompous and self-serving as this garbage . It may be well cast and the actors my ravage their roles with unholy relish but it just isn't new . It's been done already . I rank this with " The Insider " as one of those movie people only see the good side of and give good reviews to without realising they have been brainwashed by other peoples opinions before seeing it . If this is not the case they only give it a decent review out of respect to the filmakers / actors previous work . I'm not kidding . For both of these movies this is the conclusion I reached after pooling many peoples opinions . " American Beauty " is VERY , VERY overhyped and NOT original . See it and make up your own mind . Don't listen to anyone elses voice but your own . If you still like it then I still respect you .
Appalling in every way !	This is pretty much the worst and most over-hyped game of 2005 and made a lot of ' bottom 10 ' lists in many magazines last month . And it bloody deserves it . The problems with this game begin before you even lift it off the shelf in the store . I mean take a look at the cover . It's 50 Cent , one of the few African American ' role models ' around these days , in a defencive pose with a stereotypical ' angry black guy ' look on his face ( oh , please don't hurt me Mr . Cent ! ) . Now I am not a fuddy-duddy conservative who blames people like Marilyn Manson for corrupting kids or whatever because I know kids are more intelligent than adults give them credit for . But America is a very racist country and when 50 Cent misrepresents the Black Community and backs up the xenophobic myth that all Black people are evil or killers or gang-bangers in some way I can't help but get very annoyed . Second of all is the fact that this drivel game is no more than a laughable male fantasy . Yes , I know Mr . Cent has been shot 9 times but it was all at once with low calibre bullets . It's not as if he goes out and gets shot at every day and is immune to all lead fired in the direction of his person . I know 50 Cent has had a really , REALLY , RE-EALLY tough life , that I would not wish upon anyone . But when violence and death have haunted you your whole life the LAST thing you should do is capitalise on a game that glorifies gun-play and gang warfare . That's just disgusting and perverse and if Mr . Cent truly ' kept it real ' ( what a ridiculous , meaningless phrase ) he would treat his demons with respect . Using music as a way of working through them is fine but starring in a video game where the main enjoyment comes from blowing people away certainly is NOT . As I have said , there are few African American role models and he should set an example to those following behind him . While his innovative music may have made him a huge success this game smashes any credibility I feel he may have had . Third ? Well the story to the game is childish and stupid anyway . It's not even entertaining accidentally as it's just way too dull . And fourth ? Well don't get me started on the horrible targeting system and awful controls . It'll make you want to smash your control pad into your TV screen . What a horribly cheaply programmed game ! Fifth ? Well , that would have to be the bland , graphics and tedious environments . It all adds up to a pretty ( read VERY ) unsatisfying experience . Mere days after being released most stores had zillions of copies traded in as those foolish enough to buy it blind quickly discovered what a rotten game it is as well as a hideously over-indulgent and grossly misjudged vanity piece . BEWARE ! ! ! Graphics C Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Wretched	And headache inducing . This has got to be one of the biggest shambles ever made . Everything from the clunky sets , the awful and tuneless musical score , to the campy acting mixed in with a heavy dose of self-importance adds up to a total waste of 4 hours ( ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) . Please do not waste your whole afternoon ( usually Sundays ) watching this on TV . Come 8 o'clock you'll regret that you wasted the weekend . It's the kind of film your grandmother would insist on watching only because it's old and therefor must be better than all the modern stuff she has grown distant from . I really must stress again this is a pile of crap .
The most rancid game ever	Eternal , unending shame on the people who made this game . Jim Davis ought to be more careful when licensing out his most famous creation . It might make him a bit of money but fans deserve more . This Garfield game has the fat cat left alone in the house and having to clean up a huge mess . It sounds simple and childish and kinda like a game a little kid would play , but it stinks to high heaven . Do not buy this game for your kids , it will torment them into really bad moods and end with smashed monitors . First of all the voice-acting is terrible . Whoever this guy is voicing Garfield he ain't nuthin ' like Lorenzo Music . The pathetic graphics are disgusting . The controls and mucked up and constantly reverse themselves for no reason , causing you to run around in circles . The gameplay is the poorest I've ever come across and there are flaws up the wazoo . It would be criminal to own this game , never mind paying for it . Stay a hundred miles away from this game at all times . Graphics F Sound F Gameplay F Lasting Appeal
Unforgivable	It's just bad , bad , bad in every area . There's no irony , wit , intelligence or an iota of dread in all of the overlong 90 minutes . Why is the town called ' Darkness Falls ' ? Because the founders wanted a horror movie to be made there in the future ? It's supposed to be a reference to Matilda Dixon being afraid of the light ( Gremlins anyone ? ? ? ) but it's lost on me . More questions . Were there any other children killed by Matilda or was it just Kyle's mother and like . . . no one else ? Some legend ! And if other people were killed by her ( presumably a LOT ) then how come no one noticed or investigated . . . like the FBI ? ? ? Why would a woman who liked children suddenly kill them ? Surely it would be a better idea to kill the people who wrongfully executed her . More problems I have with this movie begin with the fact that almost every actor is miscast in regards to the age of the character . It's very off-putting . None of the characters use the slightest bit of common-sense or make even the slightest decision ( until the last second of course , it makes it more ' suspenseful ' ) and the dialogue is below adequate . The ' dark ' look to the film feels pretty clichéd and it's mostly just uninspired photography in the most generic of sets . Hardly anything unique . All this movie represents is a recycling of tired clichés and stereotypes and a by-the-numbers , unexciting story . Skip it .
Words cannot describe how bad it is .	RoboCop was an awesome movie and could have been a great franchise . I mean this was an R-rated film and loads of parents let their kids see it . Even though it had limbs getting blown off , melting men , buckets of gore and satire that would , no doubt , go right over the heads of kids , it was still yapped about in every playground . I was one of them . Yes , the violence was the main thing that attracted me to RoboCop . But I knew the difference between fiction and real life , I could tell that the film wasn't meant to be taken too seriously and , to tell the truth , upon repeat viewings I was more interested in RoboCop's tragic afterlife / rebirth than anything else . But someone , somewhere thought that castrating Robo of all that was unique to him and selling it off direct to the kiddies was a good idea . It certainly was not . Movies can often make great kid's shows ( The Real Ghostbusters , Batman ) but not when it means compromising everything that made it so good in the first place . Making a kid's of RoboCop is just as moronic as making a kid's show of Freddy Krueger . And how the hell can Clarence Boddicker be in it if he died in the movie ? Remember that massive gun of Robo's ? Well when he shoots it in this cartoon there is no entry or exit wound , no blood and the baddies fall down and die anyway . Then , a few seconds later , they are alright and alive as Robo arrests them . What ? ? ? I may have been a child but I wasn't stupid ! And why is it now some kind of laser gun ? And if it blows holes in walls and doors and other giant robots ( every other episode would feature a giant robot ) then why would it not blow apart a human ? The main focus of every episode was to have contrived , annoying characters who serve no purpose other than to make poor stories happen ( Lt . Hedgecock especially ) spout appalling dialogue and constantly put the man in the can down by calling him loads of silly names , like ' that bucket of bolts ' , ' that rustbucket ' , ' that tin can ' , ' that ( fill-in-the-blank but use either rust or bolts or bucket or can ) ' . I know characters need adversaries or obstacles . But this was pathetic . No kid liked this show . It insulted their intelligence and embarrassed a great movie . Forget that it exists . Even if they kept the main RoboCop theme or maintained the political subplots ( yes , a child CAN understand this ) it could have been bearable . Sadly , as it is , it's unbearable .
Crap !	At the beginning of this year something was seriously wrong with the majority of reviewers in the world . For some strange and obscure reason they all gave top marks to junk like this , American Beauty and Being John Malkovich . Although I understand why they did this for the latter there is no excuse and no denying that The Insider is quite possibly the most over-rated and over-hyped film ever that was unfortunate enough to be seen only by totally biased audience . Except me of course . The story is about Jeff Wigand , who is fired from his job at a tobacco company and wants to do an interview with 60 Minutes producer Lowell Bergman . At first he does not want to do it but thanks to pressure increasingly mounted on him he decides to do it out of spite and retaliation it seems . You see the tobacco companies do not want Wigand to let the whole world know that cigarettes are addictive . But everyone knows that anyway so what's the big deal ? It's hardly big screen material . It may make an 85-minute long TV movie but it certainly cannot stretch over 2 and a half hours even with the talents of Al Pacino and Russell Crowe to support it . Let me just say that Heat was cool . Long , but still a very good film . I do admit that Michael Mann is a good director , but every director coughs up a severe dud once in a while . For Steven Spielberg there was Amistad and for Kubrick there was Eyes Wide Shut . Both of these films received excellent reviews for one reason only : the reputation of the director . This is why so many people lied to themselves that The Insider is a good film ( snigger ) . No way ! Out of sheer respect to Michael Mann the whole world has given false review of this film but I'm about to give you the truth . The rest of mankind has been so brainwashed that The Insider is Oscar-worthy so they might try to hurt me for telling you this , but because I'm such a humanitarian I'm willing to risk it . THE INSIDER IS GARBAGE ! There I said it . A Shocking amount of characters appear for a few seconds or maybe even longer and then disappear for the whole movie without them even being introduced to us or at least telling us their purpose to the story . This makes a series of confusing and drama-free events even more blurred and low in any kind of narrative . Mann also goes as far to not even give us reasons for events taking place . Like those men in black suits who just enter Jeff Wigand's ( Russell Crowe ) home and take his hard drive . Who were they ? Who sent them ? Why didn't Wigand do anything about it ? Like call the police or even tell Bergman ( Pacino ) . This scene is embarrassing to watch because Wigand is such a wimp . He does nothing ! If someone came into my home I wouldn't just let them take my computer without doing anything . The only thing that is decent in this travesty is Dante Spinoti's widescreen photography , which is stunning . The scene with Bergman knee-deep in the ocean is a great example of wonderful cinematography . But that isn't enough . Sadly The Insider is as bloated as it is self-important and boring as it is confusing . A huge big mess . At the end you feel so bum-numbed and exhilarated that you just want to lie down . Maybe some people confused this sensation as the result of seeing a good movie . Which it certainly is NOT ! Beware ! . Shawn Watson
Pathetic , bottom-feeding , lowest common denominator crap !	Made back when PG-13 movies when making their descent in quality and their rise in abundance , GI60S is nothing but car pornography for gormless audiences who care not for story or character but are nonetheless fascinated by the flickering images and colors . There is nothing good about this film . Nothing . No redeeming qualities whatsoever . The story takes an age to get going and when it finally does it doesn't really amount to much . Instead of being a white-knuckle thrill-ride it is more a leaden-traffic jam . The story dies a long slow horrible death within 2 minutes and the rest of the movie is just us watching stay dead . It's not a pretty sight . Certainly not a sight you want waste money on this DVD for . There are about two chase scenes , tops . Are they are both SO BORING . There is a certain gimmick the director uses in these scenes ( no it's not the 4 million shots of Nic Cage's foot on the pedals ) . I'm talking about the cops , who have almost caught up with Cage , being cut off by a truck , bulldozer , jalopy etc . it happens so many times it is practically a joke that is funny only to Dominic Sena . And the editing throughout the entire movie ( as always in a Jerry Bruckhiemer production ) is like the film has been shredded and just thrown back together . You cannot make out a single thing . The whole experience is a blur . The plot of stealing cars is not entertaining . It is not cool , hip or streetwise . It is just boring . And apparently , in Long Beach California , if it's not Night it is always Sundown . I don't think that this is planetary possible but it happens in this movie nonetheless . Speed and steel do not make a good movie . Even the villain is SO unscary . And he's only in it for like a minute . No constant threat is made to Nic Cage . We begin to wonder why he is even bothering stealing these cars . Plus , this film marks one of his numerous terrible performances . Cage can be good when he wants to , but frequently , when starring in junk like this , he is on zombie auto-pilot . And people moan about Seagal having no acting talent ? Every cast member is wasted . The score is nothing but sound effects and noises with no real theme at all . The direction is pedestrian and the film as a whole is a waste of time and money . The Director's Cut DVD is not really true Director's Cut but the same film with 9 extra minutes of filler that was wisely left on the cutting-room floor first time around but has been chucked back into the film as a way of making you part with more of your cash . Don't do it .
A pathetic , pretentious , unbearable film !	It's crud like this that gives foreign language films a bad reputation to the average moviegoer . I hated every intolerable minute of it and giving you a synopsis of the non-existent plot is only going to inflame me again but I'm bound to my word to review it . Jan ( a man more chin than head ) pisses off from his dingy German town for no given reason , leaving all his friends behind . They look for him but give up the chase when they come to the conclusion that he must be dead or something . Five years later he comes back for no reason to see how they've all changed . And that's your lot , mate ! Nothing else happens . They try to inject melodrama by having Jan turn up at awkward , strange moments to confront his former pals , but it feels quite contrived . The dialogue is almost entirely pointless . Nothing of any importance is said by any character and the only lines they manage to utter seem like stock samples that are only in there to prevent it from being a silent film . Well it ain't much of a goddamn ' talkie ' . The dialogue is usually of the following quality : ' Come with me . ' ' My fags are out on the balcony . ' ' I'm so glad you're back . ' ' That railroad is three degrees colder . ' What ? ? ? Did I just walk into an alternate universe where bullshit makes sense ? There are far too many characters introduced at once and none of them really look all that different so you'll lose track really easily , especially since none of them say or do anything other than look perpetually depressed . The only good thing I can mention about this truly rotten film is the skillful , if bleak , widescreen photography that briefly captures some moments of atmosphere that the film could really have used more of to prevent it from being the borefest that it is . It's too damn metaphysical and requires the audience to really read into the silences than listen to the conversation . I can do that , but not in a pretentious pile of crap such as this . None of the women were really that attractive either but I was so bored that I was praying for some kind of nude scene . The appearance of the end credits was like similar to that feeling after taking a really big dump . You feel hollow , dirty and worn-out , but at least it's over now !
NOTHING to do with comic-book at all !	I thought that first Spiderman movie was bad . I thought that Fantastic Four was worse ! Well , at least it wasn't an unfathomably long , catatonic snooze-fest . If loaded guns came with the price of admission , I guarantee most of the audience would have used them . They were literally falling asleep , wishing for it to be over . Or for at least SOMETHING , ANYTHING to happen . How can The Hulk be boring ? Ask Ang Lee . He's the one responsible for turning a dark and brooding comic-book into one of the biggest disappointments in a summer of big disappointments . Hell , even the TV series managed to portray Bruce ( or David - the network thought Bruce sounded too ' gay ' ) Banner as an isolated loner , who has no real place to call home , better than this . It totally disrespects the comic-book , on which it was based , and has mangled Hulk mythology to the point where the title and movie character are the only remotely familiar things . Any fan of The Incredible Hulk will know that current story lines are highly intelligent with deep character development . Nothing of that sort is present here . This would have been bearable if the dialogue , or characters , were good and the logic behind their actions intriguing . Eric Bana brings nothing to the title role . A better casting choice would have been Bruce Campbell , because Bana emotes zilch . Jennifer Connelly is useless . Nick Nolte isn't used enough . Sam Elliot , for once not playing a cowboy , has nothing to do , either . From a creative point of view , Ang Lee's wretched way of cutting scenes together with split screens , in an effort to mimic the comic-book , is disorientating . It appears that in researching the film , he read a couple of Sixties issues and got inspired . This cheapens and degrades the movie and insults the current style of the comic franchise . Even the photography is dull , with no thought put into composition . In fact , the only time the camera is considered is when the colour green makes a creative appearance . And why is it so tame ? The Hulk - called Mister Angry in the movie ! - spins a tank and chucks it across the desert . Anyone inside would have been crushed by the G-Force before the Hulk even let go . But what happens ? The guy inside climbs out , coughs and wipes the dust off ! What is this ? The A-Team ? This would never have happened in the comic-book . It gets even worse when Apache helicopters crash into the Grand Canyon without blowing up . Oh , and since when did the the green guy do that leaping through the air thing ? Leave The Hulk alone . He's angry . And you're not going to like him .
What a bloody bore !	Yet another example of a poor film boasting a good trailer . The Number 23 fails on almost every level . Joel Schumacher ( widely regarded as a hack with a few fluke hits ) just doesn't have the talent to take an already asinine story and make it into an entertaining film . None of this really is the fault of Jim Carrey . But if he wants to be taken seriously as a dramatic actor then he really ought to choose scripts better than this . I can't articulately describe to you just how stupid The Number 23 is . Normally I would say see it for yourself and find out . But , even at 98 minutes , this film felt like it would never end . Carrey is a dog-catcher who is given a raggedy book on his birthday called The Number 23 . A book which claims that this evil number rules the world and all the logic and circumstances within it . The main character of the book goes insane because 23 is everywhere . As you do . But Carrey recognizes his life in this book and is drawn into its stupidness . . . I mean its mystery . This thin , confusing , misjudged and flatly handled premise gives way to further plot developments , all narrated with heavy exposition by Carrey . And it's so , so boring . And once the plot twist finally comes it contradicts what has come before it and totally doesn't add up . You'll never see a film so desperate to be clever yet end up being so moronic . The one thing I liked about # 23 is that there is a nice , lonely atmosphere in the small town setting with weird perpetual sunset in all scenes . But it's still not enough to dig the rest of it out of the grave it's already made for itself and I'm afraid that is a perfectly justifiable rating . Carrey , I am disappointed . As much as I do like seeing you expand your range , this really was a poor choice .
Crap !	And a monumental flop . Beverly Hills Cop 3 spent so much money and delivered practically nothing . We get a 1 . 85 : 1 screen , bland production design ( in a theme park ? ) and out of place action on the rides . It should have had a wider screen and more eye-pleasing backgrounds if it wants to look good on screen . But it never happened . The tone is very different to the previous 2 films and has some totally pointless action and a weak plot . Ronny Cox , John Ashton , Don Simpson , Jerry Bruckhiemer and Harold Faltermyer all bailed out of this film . Surely the director should have seen that as a sign . There isn't even a reason for Ronny Cox not being in this movie . At least they bothered to explain why John Ashton couldn't be bothered showing up ( apparently his character retired to Arizona to play golf ) . Judge Reinhold is wasted and is given NO funny lines . Eddie Murphy acts like he's in a Die Hard movie and how the other characters can't figure out who the bad guy is just by looking at him is insulting to the audience's attention . Millions of dollars were spent on this movie that came traipsing in 10 years after the original and 7 years after the sequel . I guess no one cared about Axel Foley anymore . As I have already said ? the film bombed big time .
Jason is Dead !	But someone's doing a pretty lamentable impersonation of him in this dull sequel . Hell , the guy in the hockey mask isn't even truly revealed until the climax . Up until then it's just close ups of his feet and stuff like that . Plus everybody in this movie is killed and after about halfway thru you realize this so there is no more suspense . And some of these deaths even happen offscreen so there is just no point in them . And even more of the people killed have nothing to do with the killer's motive . So there's more pointless death for you . And what's with the ending ? I'm glad Paramount ditched any ideas associated with this movie and started afresh with Jason again in Part VI . Tho I am not glad at this DVD . Once again it has horrid cover art . No extras outside of a trailer and the movie itself is censored . There is so much unseen gore in the Friday the 13th series . And we will never get to see it if Paramount doesn't listen to the fans . Friday the 13th Part V is presented in muddy looking 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and thin , strident and brittle Mono sound .
Terrible , I want my money back !	Lemme just say that I only got this DVD for Kitty , as it was her first anal scene and I think she's just adorable ! She has the perfect ass and I wanted to see her do something more dirty than the typical plain shagging she's done in her previous movies . Well , Ed Powers , who gets a load of her before the man doing the love-making enters , makes Ron Jeremy look like Orlando Bloom . That's all I'm saying there . And when the stud finally enters ( dressed like a Bandido , for some reason ) he does a truly awful sex scene as he has a MAJOR case of the flopsies and BARELY penetrates Kitty's wonderful ass at all . What a rip off ! The previous 3 girls before Kitty does this weak scene at the end of the DVD look like crack whores and I cannot see how anybody would find them a turn-on . Do not waste money on this DVD !
If you think that this is a good game then you seriously need your head examined	I can honestly say I've yet to play a good Spider-Man game . For all the hype , good reviews and people willing to pay the big bucks over this one , I thought it was sure to be the best . How disappointed I was to discover it's one of the blandest and boring beat-em-ups ever . You begin playing as Spidey ( but can later change to Venom if you wish ) and you go about tiresome duties beating up generic thugs on the streets of Manhattan . Every thug looks the same and you'll end up punching to death the same guy a billion times ( more so for those infuriating end of level bosses ) . The crap music is the same on every level . Apparently the game has ' additional music ' by some band called Green Jelly , who I have never heard of . I assume they must be some none-hit wonder grunge band from Seattle back when all that was new . And quite what exactly they contributed to the game is a mystery as there are only 2 tracks in total ( level music and boss music ) . There is some plot going on but I couldn't follow it . The comic-book cut - scenes look terrible and the writing is too small to read . Plus the are very slow and add too much time between the boring levels . The controls and gameplay are dire . There's no fluent movement or grace in the fighting . It's all just an annoying mess and terribly programmed . If you can bear to stay with the game until level 2 you'll know what I mean . It was so rage-inducing I almost gritted my teeth into dust and chucked the controls into the TV . Stay well away from this horrible game . As a beat-em-up it stinks . As a Spidey game it stinks . It just plain reeks overall . Graphics C Sound D Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Utterly worthless waste of time and money	TFATF is THE most pointless and artistically redundant franchise in history ! The first , which was a total piece of crap , gave way to a tepid , moronic sequel and now , after three years of peace and quiet we are punished with Tokyo Drift . The most American Japan you will ever see in a film ! Although there is even less of a story than the other two ( if that's possible ) it is still a carbon copy of its predecessors and offers absolutely nothing new . The characters are crap ! The action is lame , soulless , overcut and PG13-friendly and is obviously ' inspired ' by hours and hours of endless Playstation . The only reason I went to see this turkey is because I LOVE Japanese girls . But , like I said , this is the most American Japan you will ever see , so there is hardly any of them at all . And all Japanese girls are shot from behind so you can't actually see that they're Japanese . Whether or not this is because they are just LA girls masquerading as Japanese Girls or it's because Universal didn't want to alienate American audiences I don't know . But if you're expecting anything remotely resembling a culture clash then ditch that preconception . I guess that kind of thing would be too difficult for the writers of this trash to muster . And how the hell does hillbilly main character Sean Boswell master the Japanese language in a few days ? It's no secret that TFATF films operate on a declining scale . And , forgive me for sounding like a fuddy-duddy , I feel that they send the wrong message to the wrong generation . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . Speed gets you babes . The film is even less subtle than the above paragraph . Despite the disclaimer at the end , warning naive audience members of the dangers of such driving ( such people cannot read anyway and left as soon as the screen went black ) I must point out that too many impressionable kids forget this is just a stupid fantasy movie . A dumb disclaimer at the end isn't enough to dissuade them from trying all the crap that is featured in this movie . But that is to be expected from lowest - possible - common - denominator garbage .
I absolutely hated this !	First of all I will admit that the level of animation is far , far superior to the frequently goof-ridden TV series and that Transformers : The Movie looks more like Akira or Ghost in the Shell than the show . It add a whole new level integrity to the Transformer's universe but it's a damn shame that the story had to be crap of the lowest order . I know that many people are going to hate for this and call me cynical but this is not a movie . It's an 85 minute toy commercial . Many of the Autobots and Decepticon's die ( including Starscream , thank God , he truly was irritating ) but are soon replaced by new characters . It's like Hasbro was subliminally telling kids to throw out the old toys and go buy new ones . Set in the unfathomably distant future of 2005 , when we'll be living on the moon and skating around on hover-boards , the gobbledygook plot involves a giant planet-eating robot planet ( umm . . . okay ? ) and his mission to destroy the ' Autobot Matrix of Leadership ' , which is obviously Optimus Prime . It begins with the Autobots and Decepticons doing their usual battle of blowing up each other's stuff but what is bugging is that in the show they never get hit or die if they do , but here loads of them are killed-off easily and without any particular attention . I know I complained that none ever die in the series before but when they are blown apart and fall down while barely getting a single line of dialogue it's kind of . . . disrespectful . And none of these new characters have the same appeal . Once Optimus Prime is dead the new leader , Ultra Magnus , doesn't yield his authority or leadership with any special flair . Megatron is left to die , while floating in the depths of space and is reconfigured / evolved by the robot planet ( who's name is Unicron btw ) into Galvatron . Who doesn't seem to be any kind of eviler , just a new toy . And the robot voiced by Judd Nelson ( his names escapes me at the moment ) is just another generic Autobot good guy . The Matrix of Leadership happens to be a glowing ball in Optimus Prime's chest and when Ultra Magnus get his hands on it the movie could have become a ' chase for the bland MacGuffin ' kind of story . But it continues to meander and go in eccentric / weird directions . The subplot involving the junk planet and the shark-bots and the judge and jury who execute robots for being guilty AND innocent is just baffling . What the hell is all that about ? And even worse is the guff with the dancing biker-type robots with the leader voiced by Eric Idle . I mean . . . what ? Either I accidentally took an acid and went on a weird trip last night or this film is just plain mince . The main thing that makes this film so inaccessible is the almost total exclusion of human characters . An older Spike is in it for a few seconds and his son Daniel has a bit of character development . But where is Sparkplug ? Where are any other humans ? About 2 minutes of it is set on earth and everything else , set in space , seems kind of alienating . I know we've seen the Transformers battle on Earth loads of times before in the TV show but this sudden switch of locale and whole new assortment of characters made it feel like something I had no familiarity with . I realise that the transition between seasons 2 and 3 had to be steep and drastic ( a 20 year story gap and loads of new toys . . . sorry characters ) but it needs more time to develop than this and everything feels rushed and hasty with no focus on pacing , coherence or character . The constant 80s rock is kind of fun though . I truly miss this kind of hedonistic music , it may not fit the film terrible well but it has a nice kind of nostalgia to it . Vividly animated it may well be , but I found this film to be so asinine that I have taken down my Transformers posters and lessened my interest in them . Don't get me wrong , I will still watch Seasons 3 and 4 , but I can only do it with a more cynical and distrustful eye .
Give me Blade anyday !	Take Blade and add most of The Crow and The Matrix and you have this . The latter two I didn't particularly enjoy and Underworld was just as dull and messy as the trailer made it out to be . Amidst a clutter of cliched sets , impossible to differentiate from each other , and heavily overused lightning and rain ( I'm sure there are OTHER ways of creating a gothic atmosphere ) an uninteresting and meandering plot slowly fizzles to life . Apparently Vampires and Werewolves have been fighting for years but a couple of them want the war to end . But with no indication of who is good and bad and the lack of a clearly defined hero there's no way to engage with the characters and no reason to care what happens to them . The SFX are of the jumping thru the air in slow motion while spinning and shooting and doing the laundry variety . Nothing you haven't seen a zillion times before . It wasn't interesting the first hundred times I saw it and this movie is no exception . As you might expect from a movie of this sort , the music is nothing but someone murdering a thrash metal guitar . It's just noise and chaos that matches the incoherent blur onscreen . Many elements of this film lead to exciting possibilities but they've all been thrown away in favor of easy trash . Technically efficient it may well be but Underworld is a failure on every other level . And what's with the title . At no point in the entire movie is there interaction with the ' real ' world . Just a load of running around in sewers and darkly lit mansion corridors . The sense of having an insight into a world that is not meant to be seen by human eyes is non-existent . Even the kidnapped human acts as if the discovery of Vampires and Werewolves is nothing to out of the ordinary . would have been a more appropriate title . The one star is purely for Kate Beckinsdale in a leather outfit . I have the DTS Region 3 edition of this movie . It has a great DTS soundtrack ( wow , now can really appreciate the mind-numbingly loud sound effects and awful music ) . And the 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture is super . But no matter how good looking it is , Underworld is still terrible .
Chowy deserves better .	Tho his English is now much better and this movie offers him a chance to be lighter than in most of his other work the whole movie is still a total disaster . The story and point of the movie is so weak that no matter how hard anybody could have worked to make it better it would still [ stink ] . Seann William Scott sleepwalks his character and emotes practically nothing . James King is kind of alright as the bad rich girl but it's nothing we haven't seen a zillion times before . The villain was poor and his female sidekick was aggravating . And all for what ? The MacGuffin is a scroll that holds the key to eternal paradise for planet earth . But it must never be read . Why ? ? ? Chowy is the one destined to protect it and whenever he is not on screen the movie plummets from mediocre to unbearable . The constant rain and dingy sets did zero to create any atmosphere and the constant lack of color or color-coded sets makes it ugly on the eye and wastes any chance the film has of juxtaposing 1940's China with modern day New York ( Crocodile Dundee anyone ? ? ? ) . Bulletproof Monk should have remained as a comic-book .
Even the director admits how bad it is in his commentary	Quite bad indeed . Why on earth Dolph agreed to do this I'll never know . Maybe he just had some spare time . But he could have done something more worthwhile than this bore . The story focuses on Jack Holloway who test flies a top secret plane ( stock footage of a real plane that is not called Storm Catcher ) and is framed for stealing it and hiding it in a hut out in the desert . Or something . The way the story develops is VERY clichéd although I never did see the " twist " coming so it kind of did succeed there . There are a few redeeming features . Like Mystro Clark as " Sparks " and there are 2 oddball special agents who crop up every now and again but serve no real purpose other than to look like Hugo Weaving from The Matrix . I tell ya , the resemblance is uncanny . The woman who plays Holloways wife is badly miscast ( and has found it difficult to get work since admitting her fondness of anal sex on the Howard Stern show ) although his daughter is a rather good actress . Director ( and Hugo Weaving lookalike ) Anthony Hickox insists on using hand-held cameras in scenes that don't them and steadicam on scenes that do . I don't know what his method or technique of film-making is but it sucks . The tagline is totally wrong too and gives you the impression that the story is going to build to a more satisfying climax . But it doesn't . Dolph is neither convicted nor is he sentenced so that is a huge lie . Watch this movie on TV but do NOT rent it and do NOT buy it like I did . Save your money for Dolph's best movie . . . Joshua Tree .
Crap beyond words	I've long hated this film . For a long time I only owned Lethal Weapons 1 , 2 and 4 and only bought this because it was dirt cheap and people always moaned at me for missing it out , even though they understand that it is a rubbish film . Shane Black is gone , in fact he walked away from Lethal Weapon 2 when they refused to make it as dark as he originally wrote it . But at least Riggs and Murtaugh were still Lethal Weapons , THAT was the whole point in the films being so called right ? Lethal Weapon 3 might as well have been called ' Inoffensive Family Friendly Safety Weapon ' . There is hardly any action in this and what action there is is nothing more than very , very boring and unimaginative gunfights . There is not a drop of blood and without the not so abundant f-word there is no reason for this not to be a PG-13 . The bad guy is weak . I'm not kidding you there . His ultimate goal is not world-domination or to seize control of the drug cartels or holding the government hostage . No , Mr Lethal Weapon 3 Bad Guy wants to . . . build a housing estate . Well , if that ain't the most vilest of all evil plans I've heard of . Sheesh , what a bad man , he truly deserves to die . The lame plot about the stolen guns is a thin excuse for Richard Donner's anti-NRA propaganda ( he used to be a member but turned his back on them in disgust around this point ) . As well-intentioned as this may be , it doesn't belong in a film called Lethal Weapon , especially when you consider the gun violence in the 2 previous movies . They try to make it funny , into an action-comedy . But it's absolutely rancid . The witless , irritating dialogue is overwritten and annoying and Joe Pesci's character is in desperate need of a slap . What is with the blonde hair and earring ? A lot of this film could have been cut down , at 121 minutes the anorexic plot long outstays its welcome . There are just so many pointless scenes and distractions . The subplot about Murtaugh ( the character is supposed to be 55 but Glover was only 44 ) retiring is just done to death and it's so slow . What is this ? Some family drama ? And am I the only one who's noticed that EVERY character says ' sonofabitch ' about a million times in this film . Plus Danny Glover shouts ' RIGGS ' every 5 seconds . And don't even get me started on Michael Kamen's rubbish score . The saxophone thing totally overbears on every scene and becomes highly distracting . And when he's not using this completely inappropriate sound he's nicking music from his own Die Hard score . It's because of movies like this that Last Action Hero got made . The new ' Director's Cut ' DVD presents the film in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a faultless picture . The Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 soundtrack is loud and forceful but hardly dynamic . There are no interesting features ( not that I care ) . The R1 DVD comes in a horrid snapper case but the R2 is a sturdy keepcase .
Eddie hits a new low .	To be honest I still had some respect left for Eddie Murphy before this . He just seemed to have lost his way in the 21st century . But nothing will ever make forgive this . He's just went all ' kiddie ' in recent years . And it's sick . In the 80's Murphy gave us strong African-American characters like Reggie Hammond , Billy Ray Valentine , Axel Foley and Prince Akeem . But that was a long time ago . And it's a shame to see him trade a hard edge for movies like this . It's so sugary it is literally sickening . It's about as subtle as a brick in the face too . Annoying kids who are obviously reading phonetically off oversized cue-cards held off camera , David Newman's worse than generic ' family movie ' score , clockwork predictability and toilet humor ( how many more family movies are going to milk fart sounds for all their worth ? ) are all you can expect from this film . Staring directly into the sun is not as painful on the eyes as this .
Very bad sequel	Craven used to be known to make REAL horror movies . Sometimes they were experimentation horror films . But now he has fallen for Hollywood's love of cheap scares and loud , loud , loud soundtracks . This film only has one musical cue that isn't criminally loud noise . But it's music stolen from Hans Zimmer's Broken Arrow soundtrack . A soundtrack I love . This kind of made me annoyed the first , and only , time I saw this ( well over 2 years ago ) . The photography in this film is the worst I have ever seen . Almost everything that isn't in the immediate foreground is blurred and out-of-focus . Horror films offer so many opportunities for creativity in all areas of film production . But as this film is made to appeal to mass audiences the style has to be simple . Even terrible . There is nothing worthwhile about this film and nothing to recommend . The part that I hate most seems to be what most people ( for some reason ) like the best . A class full of film students discusses if sequels are better than originals . That's it . You see ? this IS a sequel , and they talk about sequels . Wow ! So what ? ! That's the irony ! And it's not worth a penny . I have never seen a more simpleminded and superficial so-called ' horror ' film as bad as this . The fact that it thinks it's so cool just makes it worse . The true horror of this film is the horrifying ignorance to the audience . Watch Urban Legend instead if you want to watch a Campus ' who's the killer ? ' flick . It's junk but it's better than this .
Lies	Spoilers thar be . Oh , what a glorious amazing film this could have been . A fascinating idea with a lot of original potential . As usual , it was all flushed away in favor of easy trash . But what is really worse is that the posters ( and trailers to some degree ) still advertised this film for what it could have been . Not what it is . It's basically false advertising . The posters feature London in flames , Big Ben blazing , an apache helicopter in aerial combat with a dragon . Wow ! Did this EVER happen at any point in the film ? NO ! What we do get however is 90 minutes of dirty peasants standing about in a quarry and 10 minutes of very unremarkable dragons huffing and puffing . The idea of them ruling the world is completely lost as we never see anything other than a dirty quarry . The trailer said that the movies takes place in 2084 but it doesn't it begins in 2010 ( for no particular reason ) when a young Christian Bale ( a great actor who is repeatedly contracting himself to bad movies ) hangs about at his mother's work ( drilling for a new underground tunnel for London's tube trains ) . He comes across some kind of weird egg in a long , long forgotten cave . This , somehow , reawakens a sleeping dragon ( which must be female if it has laid this egg ) which promptly kills some of the diggers and escapes . Right at this moment the movie jumps to several years later ! What a rip off ! The entire story of the Dragons taking over the world is just skipped . Why ? They threw all of that away ! Then they expect us to accept a story in which tough American soldier Van Zant ( Matthew McConaughey ) travels all the way across the Atlantic with his team to wipe out the Granddaddy of all dragons , who is located in London . But Van Zant travels there via a Northumberland quarry . Makes sense . He says that he would have brought a bigger team but lost most of them over the ocean . Why would dragons be out on the ocean ? Fishing ? Swimming ? I hope they didn't expect us to imagine that they were on some kind of reconnaissance mission . So , anyway , Van Zant believes that this big dragon is the only male and killing it will lead to the extinction of the speices . This means that female dragons can only lay female eggs . So where did this male come from if the Dragon at the start was female ? Even a throwaway line of pure exposition would have covered over this gaping error . And how does all the 3D imaging technology and tanks and helicopters Van Zant brings with him work ? It would have broke in that space of time . And how did they transport a tank over the Atlantic exactly ? And how could his team have lasted so long when they are clearly idiots and get killed right away ? All good questions . No good answers . The fact that it's only 98 minutes long makes me suspect major changes in post-production . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound ( the R2 release by Disney has a DTS track ) .
Terrible , terrible movie	Out of all the movies I have ever seen I have only ever walked out of two . This is one of them . I saw about 40 minutes of this diabolical travesty and simply left . There are no words in any language that can aptly describe how worthless this movie is . The dialogue is the worst ever . The direction is lifeless and empty . The acting is very poor . But something about this film amazes me . . . What amazes me is that not only did FOX buy this nonsense . It isn't the fact that FOX green-lighted it and managed to get assemble a cast and director . No ! It's the fact that it actually got released . Why ? Why was this film made ? The story , for what it's worth , is old-fashioned and clichéd and totally hollow . And it's delivered in the most mundane , lifeless and amateurish way imaginable . I would rather stick my face in a fire than watch this movie again . Do NOT waste your cash unless your a fan of Sabrina the forty-something Teenage Witch .
The detritus of television	If there was ever any iron-clad proof that Britain is the most uncultured and TV-addicted society in the world then the dredge that is Big Brother is it . The basic idea of this show tanked in other countries where the people are more intelligent but somehow , five years after the rank original , the people of Britain still buy into this crap . They still fall for the same old , same old rubbish that was boring first time around . It boggles the mind . Are we really all that stupid ? I blame the Sun newspaper . Big Brother is a wasteland of coma-inducing boredom consistently starring a deliberately PC and multi-ethnic group of people ( with an absolute MAX of 1 token Scottish person ) with no personality outside of the stereotyped image they were ' cast ' to present . There MUST be one ( if not many ) gay person . One arguer . One sexist . One extrovert party animal . Etc , etc . They are caricatures of real people . Thus nullifying any genuine sense of ' reality ' TV . And , ' at the end of the day ' , ' no offence to anyone ' , ' I don't mean to be funny but ' , ' correct me if I am wrong ' , ' you know what I'm saying ' , they NEVER ever speak outside of clichés . And whenever they DO say something interesting it's edited out for ' legal ' reasons . Whatever happened to free speech . I don't believe it really exists my good fellow . I know I'm not unveiling a sacrilegious revelation when I say this trash is edited and directed to the Nth degree . Thus nullifying any genuine sense of ' reality ' TV . It's a saga of nothingness . And when something DOES actually happen ( they call it ' Fight Night ' as there is THE such night every year ) the screens go black and we don't get to REALLY see what happened until Channel 4 okays it and edits their way around the truth . Thus nullifying any genuine sense of ' reality ' TV . Every Friday night is ' eviction night ' in which the people of this once mighty and powerful land spend money phoning in who they want evicted from the house ( and trust me , Channel 4 REALLY likes it when you phone many times in one night ' just to make sure ' ) . That fame-grabbing , wannabe , desperate individual then begins their definite , inevitable , inexorable descent into well deserved obscurity . Davina McCall , who apparently has nothing better to do with her life as she's ' hosted ' this mince since the very beginning , interviews that person with eyes and attitude that loudly suggest ' Who the hell are you and why are you taking up so much airtime ? ' before showing them the mandatory and expected ' best of ' their bits scene . Watching this pointlessness is how most people in Britain prefer to spend their summer weekends . Even the narrator has THE worst accent one can possibly imagine . To make matters worse he basically repeats the same lines on every show . ' Dee 486 . De ooder ' ouzmaits r een de gah-den ' . I presume the producers of this show are deaf and thought this guy wasn't unintelligible . For the past few years I keep thinking that ' THIS has got to be the last one ' as BB constantly goes from bad to worse to even worse then to absolute hell . It's cheap , brain-dead tripe that only appeals to the lowest common denominator who are vegetablely unaware that Channel 4 are laughing at them . They spend nothing , yet YOU make them millions . Be a real human-being . Turn this long , long , so incredibly long past it's ' prime ' rubbish off and go get a life !
Crap	For such a great Bond movie the game of Licence to Kill ( on the C64 at least ) was just awful . It was a vertically-scrolling shooter in which you played a helicopter ( no joke ) that went about blowing up things throughout rather generic landscapes . What on earth this has to do with the movie of the same name is anyone's guess . Domark , who made the equally awful James Bond : The Duel for the Sega Mega Drive in 1993 , might as well have taken any random shooter and just given it a different name , it really does have THAT little in common with the film . Hell , even the simplistic Live and Let Die game ( a similar vertically-scrolling shooter in which you played a boat ! ) was better than this garbage .
Smog !	Where did all the real horror films go ? Too often these days we're subjected to tame crap that is designed to scare 12-year-old girls only . How much more rubbish like Darkness Falls , Skeleton Key and The Grudge do we really have to suffer ? Where are all the risk-takers and controversy . Are we really that naive these days that trash like The Fog gets green-lighted before a script is even written ? There is no need for this remake to exist . Well , there's the money of course . But Sony make so much money of their frequently awful Revolution / Screen Gems films that the budget could have went to something better . Of all the films to remake , The Fog is a strange choice . John Carpenter didn't even like the original . He called it one of the lowest points of his career ( the man who's last film was Ghosts of Mars ! ) and he had to insert more ' spookiness ' at the last minute because it was so boring . This remake doesn't even have that much sense . I know I'm wasting my time here , but if you want a rundown of the plot it sort of goes like this ; a small town in the pacific northwest comes under siege from a gang of zombie ghosts from the sea who hide in a menacing fog . And that is it ! But it takes so goddamn long to even get to this simple-minded idea I had honestly grown a beard by the time anything the slightest bit interesting began to happen . Tom Welling or stock-hunk hero is about as wooden as a Trojan Horse and he wanders , almost comatose , from scene-to-scene acting only as an observer to the dull horror on show . Selma Blair , looking prettier with long hair , snores her way through a thankless role and the generic blonde girlfriend of Tom Welling suffers inexplicable flashbacks to 100 years ago as a way of explaining to the audience what's going on . So there's your cast of characters . Not one of them is worth any slightest bit of attention . The script revels in clichés and clumsiness . Characters are killed one by one and none of them survive to warn the others . A dead guy comes back to life for no reason and scares Ms Generic Blonde . But obviously no one is there to see it happening and don't believe her stories until it's too late . Ooh , there are ghosts after me ! I better run for it ! But the car won't start ! Something's wrong with the ignition ! The computer generated fog isn't scary in the slightest . The actual fog effects do look quite cool but there ain't no atmosphere . Director Rupert Wainwright tries to fill in the blanks with some loud sound effects but he's hopeless at pulling off any perfectly-timed scares or wringing any kind of sense out of the story . Don't get me wrong , I do like silly horror films . But they have to be imaginative and full of life . The Fog plods along clueless and only seems intent on boring the audience to death . There is not one drop of blood in the entire 100 minutes . Oh , man . This film is so bad it's not even inspiring me to creatively bash it .
My eyes , my eyes ! ! !	Oh where to begin with the awfulness of this game . The sad thing is that it promises so much with its colorful cover design , and initially delivers nice-looking sprites in the first few seconds of gameplay . But then you kill a bad guy for the first time and you just end up going ' What ? Why did the bad disappear into a pink blob ? ' No kidding , Batman himself even meets the same end when you lose a life . And what's with the pink armband and crappy weapons coming out of it ? The first level is a LOT like the final stage of the Batman Movie video game from 1989 . I don't mind clichés in platform games ( moving floors , bottomless pits etc ) but this is just going through the tired , chunky motions . There were a few good Batman games made for the Mega Drive / Genesis . This isn't one of them . Graphics C Sound D Gameplay F Lasting Appeal
Awful rehash of the first film .	28 Weeks Later is everything we fear about sequels , it's pretty much the same film done with a bigger budget and different actors . I hated the original since it had a decent concept but strayed off into some ludicrous tangent about bad soldiers and lost any real survivalist story or focus . The sequel has mainland Britain ( one country apparently , not 3 ) repopulated with an indefinite amount of civilians under the guide of the US Military ( why so , is never explained ) . Survivalist Robert Carlyle ( an underused and brilliant actor ) meets his kids , creepily androgynous son and whining daughter , as they come back from mainland Europe and introduces them to the new , empty London . But , being a simple-minded movie with no other goal other than that of killing people and offering gory deaths , this stability obviously doesn't last long and soon enough the Rage virus comes back . So , as you've probably seen a million times before , the authority are incompetent , the lesser characters are stupid and jeopardise everyone by nothing thinking clearly or using common sense and everyone we are introduced to is obviously just there to eventually be killed , unceremoniously and flippantly . Several plot strings are set up , but all of them meet quick dead ends ( pun intended ) and , like before , the film just goes in a random direction with no clear objective or way out . None of the characters are likable , so why should we care about them ? And the token kid is a poor actor with a very annoying boy band hairdo . The overwhelming pessimism and apathy through-out 28 Weeks Later is so alienating and shallow . We've seen a hundred movies that make the point of cheapening human life in the past few years ( especially since the start of the conflict in Iraq ) that it's becoming quite distasteful . Do we really need any more of these societal commentaries in horror films ? Is it relevant anymore ? I don't believe it is . 28 Weeks Later just seems to be jumping on the bandwagon of opportunity regarding this and as an exploitation sequel to a puzzlingly over-praised cult hit . The problem doesn't just lie with the non-existent plot . The film is so horribly over-cut and under-lit you cannot really make anything out . And please don't defend this claiming it to resemble the panic on screen . Films simulated ( and stimulated ) panic long before this kind of editing became commonplace . It also features an obnoxiously loud sound design to compensate for the fact that film just isn't visually or kinetically engaging . I wasn't impressed and I was so wishing for this film to be something special . It's boring , forgetful and has nothing new to say despite how loudly it tries to scream . Save your cash and time for something else . And they're NOT zombies .
Worst game I have ever played !	Oh , where to begin . This game is rotten to the core . Everything that can possibly , literally go wrong with a game is crammed into this mess . It's nothing to do with Robocop . Nothing . This game seems like an abandoned Wolfenstien or Duke Nukem game from 1995 ( the dated horrible graphics indicate this right away ) that has had a tiny , tiny bit of Robocop injected into in order to repackage it and get it out there are soon as possible . It should never have been allowed to get out there in the first place . The game is absolutely RIDDLED with bugs . There are dozens of things that Robocop needs to do but the programming won't accommodate . Such as getting stuck in a location or walking up stairs or opening doors . The bad guys have no AI at all and end up firing at walls most of the time . They all look the same ( guy in shirt with gun ) and are really boring to shoot . Robocop's gunfire sounds like a Commodore 64 sound effect . And since when did Robo say ' Oh yeah ! ' or ' Bullseye ' when killing someone ? And why oh why is a giant mutated rat in a supposed Robocop game ? The gameplay is terrible . The targeting system is rubbish ( Robo will automatically target energy / ammo pick-ups and bad guys at the same time . Which is which ? It happens too quick and it is useless too ) . I would have preferred the targeting system Robo has in the movies but here we get rectangles highlighting the bad guys . It looks stupid . The music is trash too . I would play with the volume turned down . Or not play it at all . This game should never have been allowed out . Shame on Titus and Virgin Interactive for producing such a travesty .
Lord have mercy !	There are people out there who will greenlight anything ! That is the only explanation I can offer as to why the House of the Dead movie exists . And that's only scary part to the whole movie . It's so bad you'll go off movies forever . I seriously wanted to switch this off and turn the TV over to the Paint Drying channel but I was bound by my word to suffer the whole thing . I don't know why I do these bad things to myself . As if it matters , here's the basic jist of the ' story ' . A group of twenty-somethings are so desperate to go out to some island in the Pacific Northwest ( Canada actually , because it's cheap ) for the ' Rave of the Century ' ( which consists of about 8 people and un-raving music ) that they pay some craggy old fisherman $1000 to take them there after they miss the main ferry . That's gotta be some rave to be worth all that dough ! The fisherman warns them that the island is also known as the Island of the Dead ( hang on-I thought this was HOUSE of the Dead ? ) and that they are all doomed yadda yadda yadda . First faults here . Why would a tiny little rave ( of the Century my foot ! ) be held on some remote island ? Why would anyone willingly pay loads of money to get it ? Why pay even more to the craggy old fisherman to take them back when they could just come back with the others ? Once they arrive they discover that the rave ( which consists of about 2 tents , a small stage and a port-a-john ) has been smashed , there's blood everywhere and no one is around . What would any rationally thinking person do ? Run for their lives of course . But no , these clueless , obviously blind people decide to go look for them . Soon enough they discover an old ramshackle house that's 50 times as big on the inside as it is on the outside . Another half hour of stumbling around in the forest follows , as an excuse to kill of some of the lesser characters , and after much tedium they arrive back at the house again . The characters , like the movie , go nowhere . Jammed into this ghastly disaster is a superabundance of gibberish dialogue , heinous acting , mumbo-jumbo exposition and zillions of clips from the once-popular arcade game of the same name . Why this was universally accepted as a good idea with the filmmakers I'll never know . The clips have no reference to any of the scenes and only degrade this trash even further , if that is at all possible . It has nothing to do with the game save for some cheap , throwaway line at the end . It makes Resident Evil look like cinematic glory . Hell , even the Double Dragon movie seems multi-Oscar worthy in comparison to this junk . The only one who comes out of this with his dignity still intact is Jurgen Prochnow . He could have just taken his money and ran but he tries his best with the awful script and brings a tiny bit of pathos to his character . The rest of the cast suck I'm afraid . The characters are idiots and deserve to die . Plus , if you cut out the swearing and pointless nudity , I see no reason why this film cannot be shown on Saturday morning TV . It's not frightening in the slightest . Pirates of the Caribbean is more scary than the skeletal bad guys in this film . And where did all those bad guys come from anyway ? There were only a few people on the island to begin with . I guess this justifies the reason they chose to reuse footage over and over . I kid you not , you'll see the same zombie die a dozen times . Who's ultimately to blame for that scandalous waste of celluloid ? None other than director Uwe Boll . His control over the movie is non-existent . You can clearly the see actors have no idea what they should be doing and that the zombies aren't really taking it all seriously . The actors seem like they're reading off cue cards as they constantly pause in the middle of long sentences and carry on talking as soon as they see the next card . It all feels very unnatural . Plus the film is shot like a two-part mini-series . I have indeed seen better TV productions . And don't get me started on the editing . The film is an incoherent babble with thousands upon thousands of pointless shots and dozens of meaningless camera pans . No real skill or talent was put into making this at all . It truly baffles and boggles the mind how movies this unfathomably bad can get made and George A . Romero can't even get anyone to take his calls . House of the Dead makes some idiotic reference to Romero in a lazy attempt to be ' post-modern ' but it only irritates that they think THIS is in the same league as a REAL zombie movie . For what it's worth , the 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture looks great and the Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack is clean but very unimpressive and only serves to pronounce the heavily over-used ADR even more . The DVD comes with extras but why torture yourself . Isn't this review warning enough ? Stay away ! You are all doomed I tell you ! Doomed ! Doomed ! ! !
Bloated , irresponsible , self-indulgent trash !	Typically over-directed David Fincher nonsense . Is he actually able to direct a movie that isn't dank , grimy and depressing ? There are way to many people out there who hold this claptrap in too high regard . Perhaps they confuse the muddled and self-congratulatory rubbish that is the plot for something deep and meaningful . I found that this film scrapes the bottom of the barrel for reasons to be cynical and faithless . It became increasingly obnoxious and irritating . Edward Norton's character had the most annoying voice and the constant ugly imagery turned me off totally . If this film wanted to poke fun at our society then why did it only show all the ugly parts . Granted , there is a lot of fake , unnatural beauty out there but a helluva lot of this world is still free and nice to look at . Not everywhere is a dull , grey office or a miserable , rainy alleyway . It is also very , very slow . 139 minutes have never seemed so long . A lot of this film could have been cut out and still there would be no MAJOR difference to the story I like the idea that everyone is part of the same gang and by sticking together they can easily bring down modern society . This should have been exploited more . But we only get about 4 or 5 scenes of their antics . But , the whole thing of the gang becoming fascists in their attempt to stop fascism is lost on me . I didn't find it ironic , subtle or meaningful . Sorry . The sub-text about man becoming primal again , and releasing all the rage created from jobs that insult their intelligence and ruin their lives , is lost on me too . It's practically non-existent . I have never been let down so much by a movie that was hyped as being exciting . It was really rather boring . The DVD has a loads of features , annoying and headache inducing . Why did Fox insist on a dozen little featurettes instead of one healthy hour-long documentary ? The menus are confusing as is the multi-angle function on the 5-minute " scene deconstructions " . Who on earth is going to watch all of these 2 or 3 times just to see the different angles and bad camcorder shots of someone working on a computer ? The movie itself is in Dolby 5 . 1 and is anamorphically enhanced at 2 . 40 : 1 .
Very badly made	Very , very , very badly made film indeed . Ron Howard's direction is totally wanton and gutless . The cinematographer obviously thought that if the camera went squint for about . 99 . 9999 % of the film it would mean that he was being creative . A little note to all : diagonal camera shots do not make good photography . It looks moronically awful . The art and set design is cheap too . Everything is way too close together and cramped looking . You cannot really make anything out at all . And in some shots you can see the roof of the sound-stage . I reckon about $50 in total was spent on production design . Half the film was pointless effects that did nothing for me . They did not make the film look magical . No , they certainly did not . The Whos look really stupid too . What on earth are they supposed to be ? They look like the Beagle Boys from Duck Tales . To sum it up in 2 words they look ' totally ridiculous ' . In the scene where the Grinch shaves the Mayor's head . why do they start screaming and running away ? That whole scene was the worst directing I have ever scene . I know that this is a kid's movie and , believe me , there were many kids in the audience . There were hardly a couple of laughs among them . The type of humor in this film is the kind that expects you to laugh when someone walks into a lamppost or falls into a custard pie . Come on . This is the 21st century and we're STILL getting this trash that passes itself of as a movie ? Not even the hugely talented Carrey can save this steaming pile of trash . I don't think anyone could . He simply is NOT funny . You'd think that playing the Grinch would be a role he could twist and manipulate . But no , it's a kiddie's movie . So he just acts stupid without being funny . The cartoon is way better . I suggest you watch that instead .
The death of great potential	I've got a great idea ? Let's take one of the best movie franchises there is , make a crap sequel starring a new actor in the lead role , take away all the ultra-violence , dramatic irony and tone it down to make it appeal to kids . Oh and chuck in some pathetic SFX for good measure . This movie should not have been made . Plain and simple . Robocop 2 was unfairly panned on its first release but this junk deserves every bad comment it gets . The direction is terrible , the budget appears to have been about $5 . 63 and the story has NO redeeming qualities . It's not even entertaining accidentally . I'm not kidding , it is so bad you can't even laugh AT it . The attempts at turning Robocop ( more like Hobocop ) into some kind of comic book superhero fail horribly . Just what the hell was the deal with the jetpack ? It also looked embarrassingly fake . John Castle made a very poor villain . He was hammy instead of scary and campy instead of evil . Man , even ED-209 was tame . This is a film that you should ignore , no doubt . Robocop : Prime Directives went on to become even worse . Poor Murphy .
A tedious experience of a pretentious film	It's no secret that not so many people liked this film as they did the first . Probably because it was one of the most bloated , self-important mistakes to happen in a long time . Too bad it happened to be a sequel to a highly regarded film . It only ended up getting great reviews from people who thot they should like it , but didn't . None of the fight scenes are exciting . They are frequently pointless and feature only blocking instead of actual impact . Who wants to see that ? Plus they only fill the screen with movement rather than something that takes your breath away . That's the problem with the Matrix . It doesn't take place in reality . Therefore the action is unrealistic and unengaging . We can't get close to it if we know it'll never be possible in real life . It ends up being a show of empty effects and an already cliched style . And why exactly should we side with the characters ? They are boring , have no personality , one facial expression and why do they always wear shades ? There is no point in this . It's an overdone cliche that cool characters wear shades all the time for no reason ( Blade , Terminator , MIB ) and it only adds to the films belief that it's the King of Supercool . It's not . But it IS full of the biggest words the Wachowskis could find in the dictionary shoved into endless , endless monologues that reek of pomposity and pretension . They probably hoped that confusing the audience would dupe them into believing they were watching something intelligent and deep but it's actually just ridiculously obvious that this film considers itself to be something much higher than it really is . And all this is just even evident with the fact that EVERY line of dialogue is delivered with such sincerity and such conviction ( no matter how phoney ) that those speaking them believe that it's ALL a ground-breaking revelation that will force the audience to think about it long afterward . Well , most of us ended up laughing and shaking our heads .
Pathetic	In the Company of Men is a pathetic film with really pretentious attempts at irony and drama . It's the kind of movie that makes you want to rush out and get a huge dose of CGI Hollywood nonsense to clean it out of your system . It's crap like this that give independent / art movies a bad image . A bleak production design doesn't help the depressing , boring feel of the movie and the dull story is basically a cure for not being suicidal . Never ever watch this film . I wasted a whole Sunday afternoon watching this in the cinema when I really could have been doing something much more fun , like digging my own grave .
Absolutely horrible	The Omen does NOT deserve its classic status , not in my opinion . It's no different than any other 70s exploitation flicks . Whereas rubbish like Last House on the Left and others were considered trashy and confined to grindhouse cinemas , The Omen ( a really crap title when you think about it ) undeservedly got a higher status because of the cast and studio . LHOTL was honest about being nonsense , but The Omen , desperate to be the next Exorcist , manipulated and preyed upon the naive public's fears of THE DEVIL ( dun , dun DUUUUUUUN ) with a load of gobbledygook hocus-pocus and characters so stupid you wish they'd just die horribly and get it over and done with . Gregory Peck ( a highly respected actor ) seems so stiff and bored in his role that every scene with him is difficult to watch . The only actor worth watching in this gibberish is the underrated David Warner . It's just garbage . Cheap , nasty , exploitative garbage and a classic in no way whatsoever . The 2006 remake achieved the impossible and actually made it worse . Oh , and by the way , ' O Fortuna ' by Carl Orff has nothing , NOTHING to do with The Omen . Jerry Goldsmith wrote the score to this film ( and won an Oscar ) and never used this piece , which has bugger-all to do with the Devil , in a single cue . It's an urban legend .
BORING !	I cannot belive that I didn't walk out of this . Who cares who ends up with the money ? All of the characters were uninteresting . The dialogue only sparkled ( dimly ) in some places . It was about an hour too long and left a bad taste in my mouth and an awful feeling in my stomach . Even the title sucks . Rum Punch would have been a much better title . I mean what did TARANTINO HIMSELF say about the name BROWN in Reservoir Dogs ?
Honestly the worst short film I have ever seen	This waste of time is basically a painfully overextended cliché kill with not a shred of originality or wit . In it a couple ( sleeping in a single bed for some reason ) in a sparsely decorated house are woken by a strange noise outside . The man goes to investigate ( sound familiar so far ? ) and doesn't come back . The woman eventually follows , calling his name over and over . She meets a sticky end too . And . . . erm . . . that's it . Seven wasted minutes of pure crap . If they really needed to make a short slasher movie they could have given it a new edge or even the tiniest bit of irony . And what on Earth this garbage has to do with Friday the 13th is anyone's guess .
Dumb and not entertainingly dumb either	Ugh ! SWAT is a miserable film . I remember when I was a kid and I'd play at Cops and Robbers with other kids . We'd run around with invisible guns indiscriminately shooting at each other . SWAT has that same mentality and is aimed at the same age group . It's not a movie , it's shamefully disguised pro-NRA propaganda . For all the gun glorification and random violence ( PG-13 rated violence remember , as they want to expose this drivel to the little kiddies ) there is not one subtle moment that tells us guns are dangerous . Here they are just toys and shooting people is just fun . I shouldn't really complain so hard as for the first whole hour of this film NOTHING happens . It's all devoted to pointless character building which never rises past clichéd stereotypes ( Michelle Rodriguez expands her range by playing an unhappy , scowling Latino-something she hasn't played before ) and is totally ditched with the abrupt , anti-climatic ending . SWAT promises action and the not-quite high concept plot of a crime-lord offering anyone who can break him out of custody a $100 million reward is never fully realised . We could have had 2 whole hours of excitement but we barely get 45 minutes . It's a slow , boring film with absolutely NOTHING to recommend it . Plus it all seems very 70's . I felt embarrassed watching it . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are extras but do I care ?
One of the worst films ever	New Line can either be really dynamic when making exciting B-movies or extremely stupid when making sequels to success . Take a look at Son of the Mask or Blade III for examples of poor sequels . Mortal Kombat Annihilation is iron-clad proof-positive that video games with NEVER , EVER , EVER make good movies . I don't understand why they keep trying . The first Mortal Kombat movie was FAR from brilliance . But it still had great energy , a ( rather dumb ) sense of humor and a really cool score by George S . Clinton crammed full of techno and trance tunes . And the fight scenes , while not graphic or breathtaking , were pure eye-candy . This sequel is cheaper , has a different cast of no-name actors , has poor , badly shot , cut and lit fight scenes , really shoddy sets and rubbish effects . The dialogue is gut-churningly horrible and the story will make you laugh out loud with it's stupidness . Seriously , Mortal Kombat Annihilation is a definite contender for Mystery Science Theatre 3000 . Absolute horses balls from beginning to end . Everyone involved in making this film should be blacklisted and never allowed to work in Hollywood again .
Horrible .	What a disgrace to Marvel ! Neither Spidey nor the X-Men come out of this with integrity left . It's seriously one of the worst games I have ever played on the Genesis . Terrible graphics , worse gameplay and awful music . For what it's worth it's a platformer ( like the previous Spiderman game on the Genesis , only nowhere near as competent ) in which you play different characters but start out as Spidey himself . I honestly didn't stick around too much to play as anyone else as it really did begin so badly and I can only imagine that it got worse . Don't be like me and assume that it must be good coz Spidey is involved . It would be a total waste of money . I guess I should have researched it first coz it seriously is a bad , bad game . Stay away !
A mess !	What could have been intriguing and exciting alternate universe adventure movie ends up being a calamitous mess that's the result of far , far too many ideas being thrown at the audience at once . LXG caves in on itself leaving only a shell of a movie behind . It's cool to see that Sean Connery is still up for physical action but the rest of the cast is more than absolutely wasted . Most of the characters hint at some form of motivation but never seem do anything in particular . The director seems to give each one of them their own ' bit ' in which they fight a bad guy or something but there is no real reason for all of them to be there . Except for some barmy ' plot ' about a bad guy called ' The Phantom ' ( no , not Billy Zane in a purple catsuit ) who wants to take over the world . Stephen Norrington ( who was once set to direct Freddy vs Jason a long time ago ) seems obsessed with turning every part of the movie into a ' crumbling masonry set piece ' . Trevor Jones ' score in bizarrely unmagical , the effects are far too frequent and extravagant for such a flippant , unhesitant presentation and the ending is a total let-down . There are dozens of unexplained elements in this film . Like why does the Vampire woman's hair constantly change from red to black ? How can she walk around in the sunlight ? Why are Mongolian peasants played by white folks ? The ONLY interesting thing about this film is the fact that Richard Roxburgh plays Professor Moriarty . I mean this is the guy who once played Sherlock Holmes . An ironic casting choice no doubt but the film is still a shambles .
Pointless , Z-movie garbage	The Sentinel represents everything about the soul-lessness of Hollywood and the saddening lack of imagination present in so many movies these days . I cannot possibly think of one good thing about it , it's all so generic , so factory-made and so lazy assembled that it really only exists as an infomercial on how to make money from the unsuspecting , undeserving public . A plot about a Secret Service Agent planning to assassinate the Prez could well be entertaining . If handled by a good director or caring cast that is . Douglas is the one who is framed . Basinger is the First Lady , with whom he is having an affair ( an undeveloped , unresolved plot contrivance ) . Sutherland is the best pal who believes his guilty because there would be no movie if he didn't . And Longoria is nothing . A woman with a fortune of Maybelline and . . . that's it . I guess there are less requirements for women when entering the Secret Service . As usual in a film like this the role of the Prez himself is nothing more than a tool , a token and is very badly written . Clark Johnson's , he who gave us the equally as pathetic SWAT back in 2003 , mechanical direction lacks any kind of signature and has all the visual sophistication of a cheap TV-movie . Douglas , Basinger and Sutherland look incredibly bored and phone-in their performances from afar . Eva Longoria , the most over-exposed woman of the 21st Century , is basically only in this to attract to the Desperate Housewives audience . Her role is 100 % pointless and she does absolutely nothing to further the plot or add to character development . She barely has 2 lines to rub together . A truly shameless marketing ploy . If you're a glutton for punishment then don't let me stop you . But it IS time and money you won't be getting back .
Am I missing something ?	How on earth has THIS garnered so much critical acclaim ? I must have been watching the wrong film . I wanted to like this . I really did . After reading so many great reviews in so many publications I was looking forward to a non-Hollywood uplifting tale . What I got was a slow and dull borefest . First of all , I cannot fathom how Keisha Castle-Hughes is nominated for an academy award . Her performance is minimal . Perhaps this is supposed to be her character but I have not seen a more monosyllabic display since Sylvester Stallone took on the role of John Rambo in First Blood . All she does is stand around , looking detached and sullen . Anybody can do that . I do admit that she did a good job crying during the scene with her speech . But big Arnie cried in End of Days and I don't see anyone handing him and Oscar . In regards to the rest of the cast , there is NO character development . There are some hints but nothing is ever explained . Like why does Pai love her grandfather so much when he is horrid towards her ? What's the deal with her uncle smoking crack ? Hardly the kind of thing appropriate for a family movie ? What does being the leader of the tribe actually mean ? According to her grandfather's ' leader lessons ' , being a tribe leader means nothing more than practicing for war . That's all he teaches . War , war , war . What's that got to do with sitting on the back of a whale and riding about the ocean ? I don't know much about Maori tribes but I think that this is a completely outrageous representation of them . This could be intentional as the grandfather is supposed to be out of touch with his true tribal senses but nothing excuses the scene in which he tells a group of 10-year-old boys to place their severed enemy's heads on a stick as an example to others . I'm sorry but there is a word for that kind of behaviour . It's called ' WAR CRIMES ' . Another thing I think is totally inappropriate for a family movie . And it's also pretty Xenophobic . What boggles the mind is how I've heard of so many people telling me they cried at this film . Cried at WHAT exactly ? There is no major emotional revelation at any part of the film . The ending is totally inconclusive . Just a bunch of guys in a big boat , chanting . Why would I cry at this ? And where are they going ? I will give the film credit for having a few brief ( very brief ) atmospherical moments during the narration scenes . But nothing ever becomes of them . There is no complication or sophistication to this film at all . It builds and ' resolves ' in the most simplistic and dull way . I would not recommend this as a family movie . I was hoping for something better than mass-produced rubbish such as ' Cheaper by the Dozen ' and I did not get it . Don't be fooled or brainwashed by the inexplicably positive reviews this film has somehow garnered . That is my most crucial advice . The DVD is presented in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack ( that might as well be Mono for all it's worth ) .
Gothikless	This film does not provoke a Gothic atmosphere . No , not at all . More like a sterile , monochrome and lifeless . So I'm afraid the title is a complete and utter lie . As a horror film this is a total potboiler . As a Dark Castle production it's the worst yet . Why on earth would a freshly won Oscar-winning actress do such drek ? The story is the most predictable and boring ever . You can literally see all the twists and revelations coming . There are also gaping holes in the logic . Such as if the ghost of Rachel can have a physical effect on the real world , then why would she need Miranda at all ? Well there wouldn't be a film if the director realized this . But then again , that would be a good thing . A complete waste of time ! Zemeckis and Silver should know better . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are extras but I don't care .
The horse was called death . . . and hell followed .	Son of the Mask and House of the Dead signal the coming of the apocalypse . Really it's that bad . You don't treat your kids to this movie , you punish them to it . Son of the Mask is an ugly , horrible , awful film . It's factory made with utter incompetence and has zero consistency with the original film . The CGI effects are the absolute worst , worst , WORST you will EVER , EVER , EVER see and the Mask character only appears twice for like 5 minutes in the whole film . Oh , please stay away ! Stay well away from this hideous monstrosity ! I'm sorry I can't say more but I have no words to aptly describe this worthless , pointless movie . Son of the Mask is a Son of a Bitch .
Really , really bad	This video game was based on the highly popular Manga movie Fist of the North Star . Bizarre then when you consider how terrible it is . I've no idea why they didn't just call it Fist of the North Star instead of Last Battle . Perhaps they wanted to fool people into believing they were buying Final Fight ( a much better game ) . Tho that's still not a good enough reason for this to be so terrible . It was a side-scrolling beat-em-up ( one of my fave genres on the Genesis ) but the character you played took up 90 % of the screen height and walked like he had something stuck up you know where . And you didn't exactly ' beat ' people up either . They just flew off the screen the second you touched them . All rather unspectacularly I must say . It was impossible to get past level three . The end of level boss was just too hard . ( Level two boss was a short green fat guy that you touch once and he cracked like an egg ! ? ) And the music ? Don't get me started on the music . It was surely the most laughable aspect of the game . I still know it off by heart . Hard really to forget it considering it was only one ' cue ' played over and over . Did I really play the game that much ? Sega could have made this very cool but it was a very quickly made and very cheap cash-in on a cult anime movie . And if you care ( and if you still have a genesis with this game ) press ABC and START on the title screen for a level select cheat ( only the levels you have already completed tho ) . They couldn't even make the cheats cool !
Not good !	I didn't expect much from this movie and ' much ' is something that we do not get . I was kind of interested by the trailer at the concept of mind reading but like UNBREAKABLE there is not enough of it . The plot is schmaltzy and clichéd and is presented in the most boring and unoriginal way . Mel Gibson is Nick Marshall , an executive at an advertising company ( lead characters in these type of comedies are always high-fliers , think of Tom Hanks in You've Got Mail , Tim Robbins in Nothing To Lose , Anne Heche in Six Days Seven Nights or even Nic Cage in Family Man ) who is very male-chauvinistic and is generally disliked by women . Then one night he is electrocuted in the bath while wearing panties and make-up , he wakes up the next morning with the ability to hear women's thoughts . This could have been cool but in a 127 minute movie ( overlong ) there is a window of about 40 minutes in which Mel is able to read minds and only 10 minutes of that is devoted to actually doing it . What a waste , it turns the movie into a totally pointless experience . If it had been different , if the main characters were younger , didn't have the clichéd ' high-flier ' jobs or if the plot had more on it's mind than a man and a woman falling in love there could have been a cool movie here . Even the photography is bad , too many shades of brown and most of the picture out of focus with exception for the actors . Marisa Tomei is criminally underused . She is shunted into a sidecar role that fades further away as the movie progresses more and more into schmaltzy cliché . I know there are crappy sub-plots about Nick's estranged daughter ( clichéd ) and his attempts to abuse his ' powers ' to better himself at work but these are really just there to boost the ' man and woman falling in love ' story . Let's be honest , how many movies are out there are about a man and woman falling in love ? Too many . Do we need any more ? No . But because Mel is in it WWW has become a success . If David Schwimmer played Nick Marshall ? ?
Uneventful Trash	I only saw this film because my girlfriend wanted to and I did try hard to enjoy it but it sucked big time . There are so many plot holes and hard to swallow plot elements . For example are we really supposed to believe that Kim Basinger is the sister of someone who is about 24 years younger than her ? What on earth was that evil nanny supposed to be ? What was the point in taking Cody to the dentist ? And why did this film build up to such an unsatisfying climax ? For a film that tried to draw its power from supernatural hokum the ending was spectacularly ordinary . The acting was exceptionally poor throughout and I am very surprised that Chuck Russell churned out such a piece of manufactured garbage . If you take equal parts of Rosemary's Baby , Devil's Advocate , End of Days and that awful Winona Ryder film Lost Souls , mix it up with a large dose of badly recorded ADR ( 99 % of the film's dialogue ) and you have this film . It might have been better if Christina Ricci had been in it more . I swear , she must have been in it for about 5 minutes absolute max . I also must mention the absurdly fake SFX that polluted the whole film . What were those flying demons supposed to be anyway ? I give this film a big
Worst thing ever created ! Horrid ! Horrid ! Horrid !	There are some things I bet mankind would wish he could un-invent . The atom bomb , religion and Hollyoaks would be at the top of that list . I only ever watched this to pass time at a crappy job on Sunday mornings . Thank heavens I don't have that job anymore as this show was giving me high-blood pressure . That's how angry it got me . That's how bad the acting is . I know people comment on movies that have okay acting as having terrible acting and I am well aware that a lot of American soaps like Sunset Beach and Days of Our Lives have rather poor acting but THIS has THE ABSOLUTE WORST and THE MOST PITIFUL excuse for acting I have ever seen . The characters of Max , OB and Justin are performed quite well but the all of the rest are simply awful . I know for a FACT that many of the so called actors are chosen by their looks alone and not for their acting abilities . A rather stupid way of casting a TV show it is . Many TV shows do this but no other show has such A DISGRACEFUL DISPLAY of acting than Hollyoaks . The direction is dull , miserable and very bleak . Every scene is lit with grey light that puts an incredibly depressing atmosphere on everything . When this ain't the case it's painfully obvious it's being helmed by a film-school graduate desperate to show off his non-skills . Even the pathetic stories are nothing more than childish morality plays and Sunday-school style ' don't do this ' kind of lessons . Since the target audience is mainly teenagers the producers tend to condescend to them with endless amounts of these simple cautionary tales . They don't even attempt to make it subtle . I'd be really offended watching this as a teenager if they thought I was as ignorant and naive as the badly written characters . They are SO VERY BAD you'll either be rolling around on the floor in laughter or be enraged at such an atrocity .
Flatliner	This film couldn't be flatter . Even if you stomped it into the ground , went over it with a steamroller and landed a plane on it . Even as a bog-standard 80's direct-to-video , el-cheapo cop-thriller this would be the crap-de-la-crap . Hollywood Homicide ( rubbish title ! ) thankfully and fortunately flopped big time in the summer of 2003 . Though the audience who said ' no ' to this were probably the same people who contributed to Bad Boys 2 ( and equally terrible film from the same writer ) being a success . Harrison Ford and Josh Hartnett play cops who moonlight as a real estate broker and yoga instructor . But Hartnett has aspirations to be an actor too ( the irony is somewhat lost on him ) and ends up yelling lines from A Streetcar Named Desire whenever he can . Oh stop it ! My sides are splitting ! After a couple of rappers are gunned down in a nightclub they investigate . Ron Shelton manages to stretch out this incredibly NON-existent plot for very painful , very boring 115 minutes . It tries to be funny , and thinks it is , but this arrogance only amplifies the tediousness of the rank-amateur script . I kid you not ; I could have got a 12-year-old , hyper on Buzz Cola , to write something better and more professional . Hollywood Homicide is Unbelievably bad . And , I never thought I'd say this , it actually makes Showtime look good in comparison . The DVD is 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are extras but I couldn't care less coz this film is rotten .
Nauseatingly unwatchable	If you want to see a film that has the absolute worst dialogue that you have ever heard in your life then this is the film for you . I'm not kidding . The dialogue in this film is the equivalent of inner ear torture . Sticking knitting needles in there would be more fun . The plot ( for what it's worth ) is about a traveller in a beachside hotel . . . and that's it . Director Tom Boka pads it all out excessively with long periods of silence and intercuts with footage of him making the film ( which actually looks staged ) . He thinks he is making an art film because he is letting it take its own shape . The shape it takes is that of garbage . This is no more than an extremely soft-core T & A flick that is unwatchable in all areas . It's not even entertaining by accident . This film is plain bad , BAD , BAD ! ! !
Very poor film .	Well , maybe that's an understatement . Though this is twice as good as the first one because it DOESN'T star a certain individual ( tho it must be said that Paul Walker is NO leading man ) . And if the first got then this gets a whole . It's shocking that movies this diabolical still get made . It really is an exercise in minimalism . And how much money you can milk from an audience without actually spending any on the movie . There are rumors that this film cost about $70 million . I find that very hard to believe . I looks and feels like a million dollar movie . Everything is cut down to the bare minimum . Production design , action , story , character , extras , talent and care are shrunken down to nothing . It looks like it was filmed in a week with no time for rehearsal . The only cool thing about it was the gorgeous Devon Aoki . Sadly , she wasn't in it much . But there was an abundance of cheese . In fact , take the worst episodes of The Dukes of Hazzard , The Fall Guy and Thunder in Paradise , the left over and discarded plotlines of GTA : Vice City , half the budget and throw in a couple of flashy camera moves to disguise the fact that there's nothing really on display and you have 2 Fast 2 Furious . A movie which isn't too fast or too furious . Play GTA : Vice City instead .
Moribund	There may be some major spoilers in this review . I wish to give a frank , honest and revealing review of this film . So I'll begin with ? ? What were they thinking ? This has got to be one of the most preposterously and poorly conceived films ever . And I mean EVER ! Listen to this . The script was taken from the novel FAIR GAME by Paula Gosling ( which was later turned into a film of the same name that bears NO resemblance to this ) and has nothing really to do with that novel . But the script was also taken from Stallone's original script for Beverly Hills Cop ( as he was supposed to be the original Axel Foley ) and it bears no resemblance to that film either . And in Beverly Hills Cop 2 you can see a poster for this movie in Judge Reinhold's apartment . And Brigitte Neilson even stars in Beverly Hills Cop 2 as well as this movie . Weird . But more about the plot . There is this crazy guy called ' The Night-Slasher ' ( so called because he slashes at night ) who has a huge gang of ' hunters ' ( nameless goons ) and he wants to take over the world by creating a ' new order ' . Whatever that means , I don't know . But apparently it consists of driving around in a beat up van and murdering blondes . A rather odd strategy indeed and not one that I'm sure will work as Stallone is on the case . But of course his Superiors don't want his help . They would rather sort it out on their own in a ' quiet and civilised ' manner . They don't do a very good job of that as all they do is stand about the Police Station saying , ' We've got to catch this guy ' . But Stallone has better ideas . He goes downtown to shakedown tattoo artists and cross-dressing transvestites . That's no joke . Because of the 80's music playing over these scenes we cannot hear what Stallone is saying but I assume it is something like ' Hey , have you guys seen the Night Slasher ' . Good job he's on the case huh ? But matters are complicated when a beautiful model ( Brigitte Neilson ) witnesses the pointless murder of a random woman . The Night Slasher memorises her license plate before making sure that he shows enough of his face for her to recognise him in a line-up . So Stallone takes her out to the mountains where he murders all of the Night Slashers ' goons without getting a scratch on him or running out of ammo . Then he leads the Night Slasher into a furnace ( which just happens to ' be there ' in the middle of a vineyard ) where he hangs the Night Slasher out to dry . Cosmatos made Rambo : First Blood Part II in widescreen , but not this movie . I reckon if there were a bigger screen and more thought given to composition and style this could have been a worthwhile experience . After all terrible movies can still look good ( Broken Arrow for example ) and it would have been slightly less embarrassing and cringeworthy to watch . Even at 87 minutes this film is REALLY pushing it . There are no decent characters or any memorable dialogue or anything at all to recommend it . Sure , you can watch it for the wrong reasons . You can laugh at George Pan Cosmatos ' uninspired direction and Stallone thinking that he could turn the Cobra into a franchise . We should thank our lucky stars that didn't happen . Stick with the Rambo movies instead and leave this mistake alone .
Not up to much .	I used to have this on DVD and I only watched it once . Perhaps this is because the film is quite boring and even the presence of the beautiful Famke Janssen cannot balance the crapiness out . Every set looks the same as the last and it's just so dull . It should have been gorier and milked it's hardly original concept for all it's worth . The dialogue simply stinks too . Jerry Goldsmith's music is below par also which is strange for him . Sommers went on to direct The Mummy and The Mummy Returns and from these 3 films it's easy to determine how most of his career will be . Skip it big time .
Worse than terrible	This is not a typical Dolph movie nor is it a typical obscure film . I mean it's obscure , but not in a cool new find way . Perhaps it's due to bad writing and directing but it just seems so different in terms of dialogue and plot development . For most of the movie Dolph sits around and drinks but after about an hour he finally gets down to some action . He also sounds different . His voice is gravelly . Like he's smoked 100 cigars a day for a decade . But I guess this is him just getting into character , too bad it's not interesting but it's nice to see the effort . There should plenty for Dolph to get his teeth into here and lots of opportunity for a hot-potato of a movie . Land mines are a delicate issue but at some point in the movie it all collapses into standard action-man territory . The beginning is badly directed , some shootouts seems really false and the trailer is , by far , the WORST I have ever seen . The DVD has plain old stereo sound with a pan and scanned fullscreen picture . Avoid it .
Racism in disguise	The very first words uttered in this TV movie are ' Almost every bad thing that has ever happened to me has been because of a black person . ' A rather alarming opening line and it doesn't let up . Joseph is a teacher at school in London in which 70 % of the kids are black . He knows it's tough for black kids to get a start in life so he tries his hardest to make men out of them . But there is one really nasty kid who lies about Joseph hitting him for a joke . But his mum gets behind it and Joseph is eventually fired for nothing . He tries to fight back but is made a scapegoat for the anger of the black community and his credibility and life are shattered . Living on the streets he is taken in by a kindly elderly black woman and begins his long haul back to respectability again . Along the way he is constantly talking to the camera about how ridiculous and annoying black stereotypes and culture are . If this were a white guy he'd be hung by the PC police , so I'm assuming that the disguise for this blatant xenophobia is the fact that Joseph is a black person too . But you really have to wonder of where exactly the inspiration for this rubbish came from . It's really easily written and has about as much grace and civility as a sledgehammer to the balls . Originally called ' Fck Black People ' I'm amazed any non-KKK member producer even dared to pick it up . Certainly not a film you should devote any amount of time to .
Eesh ! A horrible , horrible game .	Man alive , is this game bad or what ? The graphics are way below par , even if it were on a playstation 1 , never mind a Gamecube . The gameplay is pathetic and the camera movements disorientating . What a worthless game ! I totally love Warner's Batman animation and it's cool that they do all the games in this way . Batman : Vengeance could well have turned out great as they got off to a good start by keeping all the Gothic visuals and voice actors but they seriously stumbled when it came to playability and graphics . The result is a boring game that looks incredibly cheap and is no fun to play whatsoever . I really must stress how bad the graphics are . Don't let the color schemes fool you . I've seen better stuff on a Commodore 64 .
The piece of crap .	You want to know how disgustingly , morbidly PC Disney has become ? They put trousers on a monkey because they are afraid to show naked animals in case parents are offended . Can you believe that ? What is this world coming to ? Walt would be spinning in his grave if he were not cryogenically frozen . Tim Allen plays Dave Douglas , a bad dad who neglects his wife and kids and does way too much overtime . He's a lawyer you see and his current big case involves an animal research company who make poodles into frogs or something like that . Their goal is to make the elixir of everlasting life so naturally one would make a poodle into a frog to achieve such a noble ambition . Dave is bit by one of the dogs and now is infected with dogness . This causes him to periodically turn into a dog and ' hilarity ' ensues as he tries to keep up his case and maintain his family life . Why on earth would you want to see this ? Tim Allen has already played a neglectful dad who learns important lessons after undergoing a weird metamorphosis in 2 Santa Clause movies so he's not broadening his role much . And how many movies are there with bad dads ( always the dad and never the mum , eh ? ) who are usually lawyers who learn the same crap ? About 86 billion ! I can understand why Tim Allen is in this as he is constantly scraping the bottom of the sludge barrel but how the hell did they get Robert Downey Jnr , Danny Glover AND Philip Baker Hall do to this ? They must owe their bookmakers a fair whack . No one in their right mind could read this script and find it worthy of their talents . So not only does the story stink of the worst clichés but it's woefully misjudged and badly directed . The scene where Mrs . Douglas confronts her dog husband and hears him bark ' I wuff woo ' is pretty much the most disturbing scene I've ever come across . And I've watched snuff . When they look into each others eyes I seriously thought she'd start making out with him . And when the film finishes . . . is Dave still going to turn into a dog ? Is he cured ? Who knows ? Do I really care that much ? Why ? Why do I do this myself ? If you really hate life then see this movie . If you are of sound body and mind then save the pennies for guns , drugs and ill hookers . It's money better spent . Trust me !
Men in cheap suits	For such a belated ( and now unwanted ) sequel to feel so much like a quick-rehash to cash in on the original's success is weird . This movie had 5 years ( and some false-starts ) to refine and for the filmmakers to really make it something special for the fans and to pay tribute to the brilliant Men in Black . It never happened . Instead we have a plot ( that doesn't even make sense ) so wafer thin it's almost invisible and repeats of old scenes . Always , always , always a bad , bad , bad mistake for a sequel . NEVER homage or try to be smart by repeating scenes . John Carpenter did this with Escape from LA and that was lost on almost all audiences . Just like what has happened with MIB II . I did expect this to be a huge hit . But it's gone largely unnoticed because it's asking for money for old rope . David Cross ( who played the morgue attendant in the original ) has the only funny scene and I swear any other laughs will be no more than exaggerated smiles . You'll want to enjoy , but won't . Lara Flynn Boyle is not the uber - [ female ] her character should have been . And Rosario Dawson has NOTHING to do in her role at all . I don't want to say that she is a bad actress because the part offered her so little to do . Not even so little . It was nothing . Never before in my life have I seen such a pointless character . All she did was stand around with her eyes open in amazement . That's it . Had her character been called Laura MacGuffin instead of Laura Vasquez it would have been a tiny bit acceptable . What IS the deal with that silly ' light ' nonsense ? Plus the chemistry between Smith and Jones is gone . It's simply not there and there is no spark . Jones originally didn't even want to do this film ( Linda Fiorentino was supposed to return ) and he seems like someone totally different . First time round he was wise and crafty . Here he is just a gear in the machine . There's no magic . No comic timing . MIB II should have been one of those surprising sequels that blows the original out of the water . Like Gremlins 2 for example . Spielberg was producer on that movie too . It came 6 years after the first . MIB II had 5 . And it seems like they just hastily threw it together in a couple of weeks . It is so puzzling . And what is even weirder is that the Men In Black Limited Edition DVD has a trailer for MIB II . And that DVD was released in Fall 2000 ! ( ages before this film's eventual release , where they aiming for a summer 2001 release ? ) And the trailer for MIB II on this DVD is anamorphically enhanced at 2 . 35 : 1 . But the actual film itself is 1 . 85 : 1 . I found this to be one of the most strangest things of all . It's practically false advertising . Oh well , I don't want to give the film . I really don't . Not when MIB deserves a sequel so much better . And by giving it I am , in a way , insulting the original . But I must . Sorry .
Oh No . This won't do at all .	How gloriously camp this drivel is . Remember Riverdance and Lord Of The Dance and how everyone thot it was so cool at the time ? The same applies to this movie . And the story is up to very little indeed , in fact it is like Grease mixed with Luhrmann's version of R+J . Very weak and totally unoriginal . A movie is a movie and musicals are musicals . Plain and simple . Any attempt to merge the 2 have never been met with successful results in my opinion . If you want ironclad proof just take a look at Bollywood . This should have seriously just been a Broadway hit and not a big screen hit . But , of course , if every critic and every woman who sees this with all over her girlfriends like it and if they rave about how good it is because everyone else says it is great and they only went to see it because people are telling them that it is a great movie ( fact ! ) then they are only going to watch the great movie that it everyone says that it is . Me ? I just watch the movie for what it is . No bias or pre-movie opinions . And what I saw was a stinker . Almost everything in this movie seems so forced and shoved in our faces . Every shot is cluttered with overly decorated sets , too many occurrences and detail to register with us in 2 seconds cuts ( I ain't seeing it twice if that's the idea ) , heinous ADR that is about as unconvincing as Orson Welles masquerading as Mickey Mouse , VERY bad CGI that Luhrmann seems to be in love with and too many androgynous and weird looking characters . This film is all visual , or , if I were unoriginal ( like the movie ) I would say all style and no substance . Take away the indulgent and increasingly annoying sets / backdrops and all the jumping around and dancing and you are left with ? what ? A tedious movie that is good only because people say it is good . Another victim of ' Insider Syndrome ' . For me , every set in a movie should , at the same time , be realistic and reflect tone and mood of the scene . EVERY-SINGLE-SET in Moulin Rouge is overly-decorated to the point that we cannot tell what the set is . They are and eyesore , ugly to look at and extremely garish . A representation of everything this movie stands for : indulgence , ego , campiness and pointless extravagance . Lowest marks ? sorry . Oh and one last thing ? how come no one speaks French in France ?
Seriously bad film	I thought the spate of teen-based horror flicks was over . I thought that by the time we got to I Still Know What You've Forgotten Some Summers Ago ( or whatever ) that it was all finally milked for every penny it was worth ( ! ) . I was wrong . I can't think of a plot more grotesquely stupid that of Final Destination . Five minutes into it I predicted every single frame that was still to come . Kerr Smith's character irritated beyond comprehension . Every 2 seconds he started a fight for NO REASON and was bullheaded and annoying through-out the whole film . While some of you may think that Final Destination is different from the rest of teen-horror flicks out there it has one very-annoying similarity that no can deny . And that is . . . actors in the mid-to-late 20s playing teenagers . It gets me every time .
Awful film	I've seen thousands of movies but WLB is seriously very , very bad . I am shocked that Ford / Pfeiffer / Zemeckis actually churned out a film so awful . Considering how many cool movies Zemeckis has created in the past such as the BTTF trilogy , Who Framed Roger Rabbit and Cast Away , plus his involvement with the ' Dark Castle ' movies ( House on Haunted Hill , Thir13en Ghosts , Ghost Ship-all graphic and way scary ) and Tales From The Crypt for WLB to be such a boring affair is bizarre . Thank goodness I bought this DVD cheap , I would have felt so criminally cheated if I had paid full price for it . Never before has 2 hours seemed so unfathomably long . Every tedious minute is dragged out and every second is felt . This wouldn't be so bad if the plot and story were bearable but the whole thing is so full of holes and embarrassing contrivances that it becomes too hard to swallow . For such a long , drawn-out and tedious affair to have a boring , tension-free ending is unreal . Considering the talent behind this film it's strange for it to be so bad . I wouldn't recommend it under any circumstances . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 sound .
I really don't like this game	Not only do I hate the animation style and the fact that it's nothing but a bunch of mini-games put together but when you fail at whatever task and have to start again it takes too long . Yes , the animation looks good from a technical point of view but all people appear in silhouette . I don't feel any connection to the so-called ' story ' because I am basically playing with what appears to be shop window mannequins . And the music is annoying as hell too . The focus of this game seems to concentrate far too much on how to incorporate the features of the Nintendo DS into the gameplay rather than making the gameplay any good , or bearable . Sega and Sonic Team should be ashamed for making a game this bland and bad . They should have spent the time and money on something much better .
Seriously dull , not scary and moronic	Judging by Anna Paquin's performance in this so not scary ' horror ' movie you'd never believe she was an Oscar-winning actress . Thankfully , everyone else ' acting ' along with her is equally terrible and only the most observant will notice her sleepwalking . The story is some total garbage about a family moving into a haunted house . The youngest kid sees ghosts but his parents are typically ignorant and pay no attention to multiple calls for help or obvious signs of ghost activity . For the bulk of the film nothing is happening . And director Jaume Balagueró appears to know only two camera moves : zoom in ? zoom out . The editing and sound design are everything the film relies on to give it power . Unfortunately , they're both clichéd . The assembly of the horror / scare scenes is of the jump - cut - to - sudden - burst - of - noise variety and the sound adds ' spooky ' rumbling to an otherwise lifeless moment . Ooooooohhhhh ! ! ! The plot makes no sense . It makes up its own vague rules then sets about breaking them in order to allow certain plot contrivances . None of it is interesting and you'll be bored to tears by the long , slow and suicidally drawn-out ending . In regards to Anna Paquin's ( gorgeous as she is ) acting , just check out the scene near the beginning when she's arguing with her mother on the porch . The timing , tone of voice and mannerism is completely off . It's rather awkward viewing . I've seen glacier's move faster than this .
Incongruous	Book of Shadows does not make any sense . No , it's not that I'm so dumb I cannot understand it , it's actually that the film is so simple in it's conflictions that I am surprised everyone else hasn't seen right through it . Showing slight promise in the early scenes where mockumentary seems to taken to a higher , more sophisticated level than the first , the film quickly collapses into stupidness after about 30 minutes of mildly effective mystery . Basically , 5 idiots ( one of them with a basketball sized goiter on his neck ) try to figure out why the whole world went nuts over BWP back in 1999 , rather than if the BW really exists or not . 2 of them are writing a book on mass hysteria , one is a tour guide with a dodgy ( and totally unexplained ) past , the other a witch , the other a Goth ( ? ) . After spending the night in the ruins of Rustin Parr's house they awake to find their camera's destroyed and their paperwork shredded . Was it the Blair Witch ? Hardly , she's not real . Right ? Don't look at me for answers , the film doesn't contain any . In hoping that the audience would rather be confused than bored , any old crap is thrown at us to keep us in the dark . The original film was excused for this . It was a low budget independent movie and NOT a Hollywood film . BW2 IS a Hollywood film and fails on every basic level . Even the tiny , tiny irony in being called Book of Shadows , I believe , is a fluke / coincidence . Any other attempt at irony is purely textbook . Ooohhh mass hysteria ! And if the Blair Witch ISN'T real ( as this film repeatedly states ) why are their physical impossibilities taking place ? Why do they all go mad ( mass hysteria my ass ) ? Why , if they are naked , do they conveniently have underwear on when it comes to frontal shots , but take them off for any other angle ? What's the deal with tour guide dude's past ? It's all trash and all pointless . A cheap , quick cash-in and a total insult to the honesty and simplicity of the original . I paid 36p for this ! The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and Dolby 5 . 1 with some rubbish extras .
The dredge , the filth , the absolute scum of British cinema	What a bogus title . Slight Promotion of the Yob might have been a more fitting moniker , methinks . But seriously , what is it with the fascination for making these movies ? I don't get it myself . Britain is stuck between two unrealistic extremes when it comes to being the backdrop for movies . The Americans portray this island like everyone is upper class , has tea with the Queen , lives on ancestral estates and has names like Alexandra Toffington-Heath . I find this kind of ludicrously outdated stereotyping rather offensive , as a matter of fact . But when we make our own movies we either back-up this idiotic myth ( Four Weddings and a Funeral , anything with walking skeleton Keira Knightley in a frock ) or counter it with an endless torrent of East End / Essex gangster crap . Ever since Guy Richie ( more famous for being Madonna's husband than anything else ) made the slightly entertaining , tongue in cheek Lock , Stock in 1998 , a long list of wannabe British directors took it upon themselves to emulate his success . Talentless hacks have come out of the woodwork and have exploited the low-class tastes of our increasing ned culture by cranking out endless guff like Essex Boys , The Football Factory , Love , Honour and Obey , The Business and the downright diabolical Revolver . Basically , the kind of films that only get good reviews in tawdry lads mags and only because they're paid to deliberately come up with some crass sound-bite like ' The best British film since Trainspotting ' every time . Honestly , the amount of times I have seen that particular quote doesn't even bear thinking about . But now , just when you thought that the fascination with Cockney or Essex slime was over , we have the ' true ' story of Carlton Leech gracing our screens . Why anyone would want to torture their minds by suffering this garbage is beyond me . The only reason I went to see it is because I honestly didn't know what it was about . I will do more research next time . Carlton Leech is a football hooligan ( the dream of every young British boy ) who is hired by some scum to be a doorman ( cue amusing montage of various beatings ) . He is then hired by some other scum to supervise drug dealings . Then more scum appear and hire him . . . blah blah blah . Before you know , Carlton has gone quite mental . But then something really odd happens . Craig Fairbrass ( destined to play one and only character for his entire life ) enters the film and it goes off into this tangent that hardly ever includes Carlton Leech . So much for it being a film about him then . Various other scum come and go and there's plenty of bloodshed and killing for people who like that sort of thing . Roland Manookian ( who , like his pals Fairbrass and Danny Dyer , will only play the one type of character for his whole ' career ' ) turns up and degrades all British young men everywhere by portraying yet another wimpy criminal loser with no aspirations other than his next date-rape or whatever . Cue more beatings and bloodshed before a triple massacre at the end . Carlton Leech finally comes back ( not that I was missing him or anything ) and does nothing but observe . And that's the movie . Sounds great doesn't it ? Doesn't it ? No ? Being a true story doesn't validate it . Having nostalgic references to the 80s and 90s doesn't validate it . Rise of the Footsoldier has as much integrity of an 18-rated episode of Eastenders ( only more miserable and with less skill ) . If you want to leave the cinema feeling like you need to wash then this is the excrement for you . Personally , I have had enough of these misleading films where Britain is filled with the underclass who indulge in drugs , sex , drugs , misogyny and drugs . . . and drugs . Britain is where history comes from . However , films like this mountain of feces only encourage more and more people to become philistines . If their ain't no real culture out there , then no one will want to be a part of it .
Stupid rubbish	There's barely a scene to be had that does not take place in a bar ( with a Hugh Hefner lookalike deliberately cast as the barman ) in which women dance around and sing pedestrian country music songs . There are some badly choreographed fights , cliched Hick-talk , dull dialogue , non-existent plots ( ? ) that think they exist because without them there would be no movie . A bunch of women question their love lives ( marrying a guy who is much like Cletus : The Slack Jawed Yokel from the Simpsons is not their idea of love ) , cheat on their husbands with guys who are virtually no different and do their bit for girl power and equal rights . Nonsense ! Why was this made ? Like anyone will actually be interested . But what more can I expect from a 1980 TV movie-of-the-week ? Oh and I forgot to mention . . . a bull is let loose in the aforementioned bar in the films climax . OH THE EXCITEMENT !
Very poor indeed .	The only thing good about this film is that it has a cool score by David Michael Frank . And that's it . The production design is terrible and some places ( like the Buena Venture Hotel ) seem thrown in for no reason other than to give the characters some place to be . Steven Seagal is not a good actor and in this film it seems as if he isn't even trying . His then-wife Kelly LeBrock is also totally unconvincing as just a Nurse . I don't know why Warner Brothers made this film . If they hired a professional writer to touch up the terrible script and hired a decent director it could have been much better . Even the action scenes are dull and simple . Honestly , I have never seen action handled so badly or carelessly . When people go to see an action movie they at least want the action to be cool . But not here it ain't . Say away from this . Rent " Under Siege 2 " instead .
The most disgusting , xenophobic and irresponsible film I have ever seen !	Give a five year old a movie camera and tell him to film playing cowboys and Indians with Tonka trucks and you have Bad Boys II , a disgrace that somehow took 8 years to reach fruition . It's probably the most racist , homophobic and degrading experience you'll ever see . I don't even think Michael Bay knew he was making such a movie which only adds to his incompetence . The basic logic of the movie is something like this , if you are a cop then it is okay to kill as many people as you want in the most brutal way possible ( inadvertently causing our ' heroes ' to become fascists , bigots and subliminally eviler than the main villain ) . There is also subtext , something along the lines of ; all ethnic minorities are either murderers , drug dealers or some kind of foul human being and all country-dwellers are inbred , racist Klan members . The movie spews hate in the faces of every audience member who has been misled into believing they are watching an action-comedy . Miami is a place with a very diverse ethnic population and I think it is completely irresponsible for the filmmakers to have behaved in this way . Maybe a five year old with a movie camera would have been too grown up to have allowed this . As you can tell by one of my older reviews , Bad Boys was hardly a unique or original movie but it worked because the style made up for the lack of intelligence and Mark Mancina's musical score was very strong . It gave every scene a beat , tied them together and sounded mighty cool . Well , that is gone ! Mancina's buddy Trevor Rabin took over scoring duties for this movie and the cool Bad Boys theme is completely gone and replaced with an endless and dull drone . In fact I would suggest that the score for this movie doesn't actually exist . And there are far too many unnecessary scenes of absolutely nothing that contribute in no way to the already clichéd plot ( drug dealers , oooohhhh that's not been done before ) . It proves that Bay was given far , far too much time and money to do whatever he wanted . The result ? A 2 . 5 hour mess of unremarkable car chases ( also highly original , you'd never expect an action movie to have a car chase would you ? ) , constant , unironic profanity and sexism . And can someone tell me how the slimy main villain seemed have constant stubble without ever growing a beard ? Several days pass by , he doesn't shave and he never grows a beard . The movie would have you believe that all Cubans are this way . A pretty bad representation methinks . Trust me it's not that way in real life . For all this movies attempts at hardcore action the mix with cartoonish violence comes off as incongruous . This is not a no-brainer . It's a racist pile of trash that can be labelled a no-brainer as a desperate last-minute excuse by Michael Bay . It took FIVE writers to come up with this . The fact that they or Michael Bay have been playing Grand Theft Auto : Vice City far too much is clearly evident . Almost every single part of this movie is stolen from some part of that game . From locations , to car , situations , characters and plots . And still it is no .
The third dimension is awfulness	Oh dear is this film bad ? Jaws is a classic , Jaws II is a strong , worthy sequel but this drek is just so pathetic . Though I must say it's nowhere near as bad as the notorious Jaws The Revenge . In the space of 5 years the Brody kids have gone from kids to total grown-ups . Dennis Quaid is Michael and he now works at Sea World ( one would imagine he would have a fear of the water by now ) in Florida . They've just opened up their Undersea Kingdom ( y'know those glass tunnels ) and ignorant park owner Calvin Bouchard ( Academy Award winner Louis Gosset Jnr . at the start of his downward spiral ) is so full of himself he doesn't even realise a massive Great White Shark has snuck into the lagoon and plans to munch on divers , swimmers , skiers etc . Luckily for them a renegade naturalist ( Simon MacCorkindale from TV's Casuality-looking EX-ACT-LEE like Thomas Jane ) is hanging around to convince everyone that getting in the water to torment / trap / catch the poor beast is the best idea . His fate is firmly sealed as soon as he opens his mouth . Which is a bit of rip-off considering he risks his life many times through-out the film and Calvin Bouchard jeopardises so many but escapes un-eaten . The shark coverage is down right terrible . The underwater photography sucks and is badly spliced with stock footage of sharks that look nothing like the clumsy foam rubber monster in the close-ups . The 3-D effects come off as the WORST you will ever see . Even in plain-old 2-D you can see that they were pretty much the most unimaginative and unsubtle attempts at reaching the audience ever . Even the 3-D tricks in Friday the 13th Part 3 were much more fun and natural than this . I first saw Jaws III on ITV years ago . It's best to see it on the new DVD as the 2 . 35 : 1 picture adds loads to the sides of the frame for those of you who suffered the pan and scan video . Plus there is a few extra gory shots that ITV and some video releases saw fit to censor . But the picture quality is real nasty with some dirty grainy scenes and annoyingly soft focus others . The sound is simple Dolby Stereo but don't expect any Oscar winning sound mixes this time . Even John Williams shark theme is all but vanished and some guy called Alan Parker's score is generic and unengaged . Extra feature ( s ) consist of a trailer ( methinks originally in 3-D shown before Friday the 13 Part 3 began , in the previous summer ) . And then there's something Universal call ' Recommendations ' . Click on it and what do you get ? Still photos of the DVD covers of the other Jaws movies . Duh , thanks ! The only interesting thing about this film is the fact that Sea World actually allowed their name and logo to be defamed in such a ludicrous way . Jaws may have been born into greatness but it died very , very quickly as a franchise . Now Jason Voorhees has lasted much , much , MUCH longer and the first Friday the 13th film was hardly a masterpiece . Never underestimate the underdog .
Contrived , predictable nonsense	BORING ! That's what I shouted aloud when the credits finally began to roll . My buddy fell asleep 3 times throughout this film and he even managed to stay awake throughout Sense and Sensibility . Don't get me wrong . I like intelligence in my action movies but this film was just so over-hyped and incoherent it was appalling . The story was contrived to the Nth degree and it had a very TV-movie feel to it . F . Gary Gray is not a good director at all and will never amount to anything more than pedestrian . I honestly don't know why people like this clichéd rubbish so much . Don't let the opinion of others influence decision of whether or not to watch this trash . But if you hate it , remember what I told you .
Worst animated film I have EVER seen .	To think I could have just rented Steamboy and got it over and done with . But it was only the UK Theatrical cut that was available to rent and with a Director's Cut available in a limited edition box set out there I had to be a snob and go buy that . What a complete waste of money . Steamboy is a steaming pile of crap ! The only thing I liked about it was the quaint depiction of olden-days English countryside . The rest was so phenomenally boring , that I was almost falling asleep . James Ray Steam ( voiced by Anna Paquin , sounding more like a Gaelic South-African than a boy from Manchester ) is the grandson of some good scientist and the son of some bad scientist . . . blah blah blah . . . steam power . . . blah blah blah . . . war machines . Christ almighty , I am sending myself into terminal coma even summarising this guff ! The cover makes it look like some sort of exciting superhero story . But all of the action happens in the last 10 minutes . Everything before this is so , so unbelievably slow . Every line of dialogue so flat . Every character bland as living hell . I wish to erase this film from my memory forever and I am extremely bitter over the 2 hours I WASTED watching it .
Very poor , tacked together cash-in game .	I am so disappointed with this Garfield game for many reasons . Let me begin by saying that the graphics are great and the music is very sweet . I have to say that my judgment is not all negative , but the gameplay is the worst in the history of all video-games ever . You think I'm exaggerating ? Basically , all you have to do is run around a generic level collecting things and occasionally discovering a secret room . Even something as novice as this could have been fun if the controls were not totally useless . It's a very difficult game to navigate through especially since the physics of touching baddies and dangerous objects just doesn't seem right . I finally just abandoned the game since there was obviously no point in taking it all the way to the end . I just wasn't enjoying it and I regret buying it . At least is was cheap . Graphics Sound B Gameplay F Lasting Appeal
Horrible game of a horrible movie	Cobra , the video game , was a side-scrolling shoot-em-up . That's if you managed to scroll more than 2 inches along the screen to find out before the game beat you . It was simply impossible . So many bad guys came at you at once and you were helpless do to anything about it . Even if you typed in those massive cheat programs ( ' Pokes'-remember them ? ) you still couldn't finish the game because the makers didn't program the Night Slasher ( the final baddie ) to die . So just fought him forever until you pulled the plug . The graphics were alright , the sound was alright , the gameplay was extremely poor and I am puzzled as to how Ocean were not sued by many a disgruntled gamer for unleashing such a poorly programmed travesty on the world . Even their choice of inspiration was dubious as Cobra was a pretty rotten film .
Amateur indeed !	This is quite possibly one of the most dullest pornos I have ever seen . The basic premise involves four girls and two guys in a living room ( with a video player and videos ! ) and then a bedroom doing a small amount of boring sexual acts . All four women are shaven ravers but the only attractive one of them all is Donna Ibbotson . Both she and Nichola Holt are the only 2 that do anal , but it's short and lackluster . They also both try DP but it lasts for about 2 seconds before one of or both guys get a case of the flopsies . What the main problem boils down is a case of too many girls and not enough guys and not a decent amount of space to accommodate them . The photography badly captures the action and it takes ages for anything good to happen . A little skill in the editing suite to cut out any boring bits would have been welcome and if the constant dullness doesn't annoy you then the girls laughing more than moaning will . One of the worst porn DVDs ever made .
It may have been good in 1981 but it's just total crap now	I remember playing this game only once on one of those table arcade machines with screen underneath the glass ( retro-arcade goers will remember what I am talking about , gibberish to anyone else ) in the totally abandoned passenger lounge in a totally deserted ferry on the way to the Isle of Skye in 1992 . Even a mere 11 years after it originally came out and with gaming technology passing from the C64 to the Sega / SNES this still seemed like crap . You play as Mario ( called Jumpman in his first appearance ) and your goal is to defeat Donkey Kong , a big monkey . In order to do this you must climb up ladders , ascending platforms and avoiding rolling barrels . It was very hard and not much fun . And even if your a serious retro-gamer you'll probably still find this one loosing its appeal after a few minutes . Graphics C Sound Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Very boring	And very dull . This movie takes a criminal amount of time to get going and when it finally does it doesn't really go anywhere . Keanu plays a top lawyer called Kevin Lomax and we get a clichéd plot about a rich man killing his family and a couple of " TV Movie " sub-plots . But what we're supposed to be concentrating on is Keanu's descent into a conscience-free life and how he is giving up his morals just so he can win cases . Pretty melodramatic . There is ZERO humor in this movie . All movies need humor no matter what the tone . If not I just end up laughing AT it . Devil's Advocate is NOT scary . A couple of scenes may be intense but it isn't scary in the slightest . The only reason for watching this is Al Pacino's outlandish and eccentric performance , but you have to wait 2 hours to get to that . Give this a miss . I give it .
Weak	I can't believe that this got a theatrical release . The standard of animation is worse than direct-to-video and the ramshackle story is among the weakest and clichéd in this sub-sub-genre . Most of the Tom and Jerry shorts from the 1950's were made in " Cinemascope " widescreen but this wasn't . Did the makers learn anything from the past . Clearly not as the short cartoon quality is far superior to this 90's effort . The plot concerns the Cat and Mouse duo , who have been made homeless , helping a lost orphan escape from her evil aunt . These are all major clichés in kiddies cartoons . But guess what ? Tom and Jerry become friends , so there is no combat or action . It's just all infantile slush . If you really want to buy a cartoon movie for your kids or want to advise them on what to watch then direct them towards the new Scooby Doo movies and forget that this rubbish exists . After all , the people who made forgot what Tom and Jerry originally were .
I wish I never saw	Back in 2003 , 25-year-old director James Wan debuted his 10-minute short film Saw , winning enough acclaim and attention to produce and direct a feature film based on the concept of self mutilation for survival . The 2004 Saw was , in my old opinion , brilliant . Now I don't think so highly of it since the endless sequels have tarnished its reputation . Saw II was boring as hell and featured moronic characters that deserved to die . Saw III , which I believed was pushing its luck , wasn't any better . And now , 2 years later , and with Jigsaw himself long , long dead we have the fifth ( or should that be Vth ) , which takes ' pushing its luck ' to a whole new level . Despite being stone cold dead , Jigsaw's work is being carried on by a mental cop who could actually bore people to death instead by being such a crap character . The guy has one facial expression . Five people are trapped in a yadda yadda yadda . . . blood , dismemberment , CGI gore effects , blah , blah , blah . If I were in that giant trap I would have gotten free without a scratch since there are several big flaws . These movies have become a parody of themselves . Everything that we've seen in the previous four movies is all here . The icky atmosphere , the stock cop characters , the dull victims and the unshocking shock twist as the Saw theme tune builds up to a big finish . The plot tries to explain most of the questions we've been asking since the beginning , but still fails to make a whole load of sense . Just how the hell can dying Jigsaw , barely able to even get out of bed , manage to find the time to stalk his prey , set up ( and pay for ) all his traps without ever being caught ? Saw V tries to tell us he has been in league with our mental cop from the beginning but he is already as established killer when the first meet each other , so that ain't gonna work out . And what happened to Doctor Gordon ? I've been waiting four damn years to learn of Cary Elwes ' fate after the heavy bathroom door was slammed shut in Saw 1 ; a movie which cost only $1 . 2 million dollars to make and earned back $103 million back worldwide , before the million different DVD releases . Never one to turn their back on a cash cow , Lionsgate have cranked out one Saw film for every Halloween since 2004 . Saw VI is already planned for next year . They will be milking this ugly goat until doomsday . I fully expect to see Saw LIII in 2056 when I am 76 years old . Jigsaw will still be in it somehow , and it will also feature some convoluted method of tying in fifty-two previous sequels into one giant , idiotic plot . Don't let the tagline fool you or let you get your hopes up either . " You Won't Believe How It Ends . " I DO believe that it will never end . Now , gimme some Police Academy 5 : Assignment Miami Beach .
Not funny	This is surely the weakest Bugs Bunny cartoon I've ever seen . Beaky Buzzard simply is not funny and has no appeal at all . As a matter of fact he's down-right annoying . He's not a character I wish to see again in further Looney Tunes cartoons . This short has him preying after Bugs because Mama Buzzard wants him to go out and catch his first dinner . Bugs obviously doesn't take so well to this and doesn't make it easy for the bird . But where is the usual Bugs Bunny intelligence , outsmarting , battle of wits ? Not here I tell ya . Beaky Buzzard is not a formidable opponent for our fave rabbit and this cartoon is completely DOA . Avoid it .
Utterly plot-less and only slightly entertaining	I got this DVD well over 2 years ago and only decided to watch it yesterday . I don't know why it took me so long as I do like the Inspector Gadget show and even the new Gadget and the Gadgetinis . While it may have a bright color pallet and all the technical sophistication of a modern animated movie , there are some old things missing that bog this Gadget right down the toilet . First of all the classic Inspector Gadget theme song and music is completely absent . The composer tries to compromise by doing a score that sounds similar but it's still just no good enough . The Gadget-mobile is now a talking car , not a car that can turn into a van . Plus it looks a lot cuter and rounder instead of being plain cool . Penny no longer has her computer book and she and Brain hardly make an appearance at all . The plot is non-existent . There's something about a transformation formula and Doctor Claw using for some never revealed evil but that's all I got . What the deal was with the short / giant Italian guy I will never know . It had nothing to do with anything . And if the title is anything to go by , his last case is wrapped up in no way whatsoever . And he stays on the force so why it's called ' last case ' is a mystery also . I wasn't impressed at all . This is an affront to a great animated show that is strangely absent on DVD , but don't let that prompt you into buying whatever Inspector Gadget DVDs you can . I sold this mere seconds after finally watching it . No kid will like or appreciate this and no fan of the old show with tolerate it .
One of the most boring films I have seen this year !	I know I'm going to make loads of enemies by saying this but I just don't see why everyone is going nuts over this film . There are billions of biased Harry Potter lunatics out there who would give this film before even seeing it , even if the director did nothing but wipe his ass on the celluloid . That isn't the case , but it's still one of the most boring films I've had to sit through in a long time . The books do not translate well to film . I know it's an old cliché that people always say about books into movies but it really does appropriately describe the world of Harry Potter . The books may be money-spinners but JK Rowling's universe is so dense and involving one can become immersed rather easily , which is one of the franchises major selling points . The films were put into pre-production before Warner fully understood how long or drawn-out Rowling stories would be . As a result they are forced to increasingly cut down on what they put up on screen . I found Prisoner of Azkaban to be anorexic compared to it's literary counterpart . Goblet of Fire goes even further and strips it right down to the bone . Director Mike Newell had the option of releasing the film in 2 separate volumes ( ala Kill Bill ) but his overconfidence got the better of him and he reckoned he could do a 500 + page book in a 157-minute film ( with 12 of those minutes being credits ) . It doesn't work , I don't care what anyone says , the story is badly damaged by being whittled down to almost nothing . I'm not complaining at the lack of the Dursley's , I know they don't make or break the film . But important sub-plots and important characters are barely even featured . Harry's co-competitors in the Tri-Wizard Tournament , Viktor Krum and Fleur Delacour , are interesting and developed in the book . In this movie they are so absent you'd think they'd been completely cut out . I think I heard Krum speak once . And the British Tabloid press made a huge fuss ( as they do with everything ) over a girl from Fife being cast as Harry's would-be girlfriend Cho Chang . But she's in it for an absolute maximum of 2 minutes and has about 3 lines of dialogue ! And what of this nonsense that Ron and Hermione are in love with each other ? They have a single conversation in 157 minutes with no longing glances or butterflies in stomach or anything ! Being jealous at each other dancing partners simply isn't enough . Also , many important plot developments that the film doesn't have time to linger on are given a single line of explanation and quickly forgotten as things move from A to B to C . For anyone who hasn't read the book this could be very disorientating and you'll probably get lost at some point . Keen to distract us from this Warner have chucked in a massive SFX budget in hope that lots of CGI will make us think the film really is amazing when it just plain ain't . How superficial can you get ? I really don't think the kids will mind though . And the zombie parents dragged along with them won't care either . Those of us who are serious about films ( people who go nuts over Harry Potter not included ) will notice how plebeian the franchise has become . Mike Newell does chuck in a couple ( only a couple ) of nice shots but has this amateur theory that the darker the film looks the more sinister it will become . What nonsense ! Much of this film is so poorly lit you'll struggle to see what is happening on screen . And the daytime scenes are all shot with an ugly green haze to make things look enchanting or spooky or something . It makes the film look stupid . Order of the Pheonix is up next . And that book was very , very long . How on earth they will fit that in a movie I don't know . Warner have seriously bitten off more than they can chew with this franchise . In the hands of a skilled director who is familiar with action , fantasy and even a touch of horror this could have been better . The director of Mona Lisa Smile and Four Weddings and Funeral is a totally inappropriate choice . For some reason John Williams has jumped ship and left scoring to duties to Patrick Doyle . But you'll hardly notice the difference . Doyle retains the Harry Potter theme and sticks to the loud , bombastic sound Williams used for action scenes in the previous films . I'm not a Harry Potter hater , no matter how negative my opinion sounds . But trying to talk sense into someone who loves these films no matter what is like trying to convince a Christian Fundamentalist that God doesn't exist . A rather extreme simile , but alarmingly appropriate .
So boring I forgot that it even existed	The Patriot ( nothing to do with the Mel Gibson film of the same name ) came out Steven Seagal was still doing that ' saving the environment ' thing in his movies . Which is fine . But it doesn't make for good action . When the plot ( ? ) of this film finally kicked in I saw the twist ( ? ) coming a mile off . Seagal's anti-warfare , care-for-mother-nature stance is not very subtle . For a film that was originally going to debut in the cinemas it is shot very much like a TV movie despite some wonderful shots of the country by Dean Semler , the photographer of Dances with Wolves . Steven Seagal does like 1 fight scene in the entire film and it's totally boring . As an action film it fails , as a drama it stinks , as an environmental message it's obvious . Avoid like Ebola crossed with plague .
Boring	If you suffer from insomnia then Radiant would be the best way to send you into a 7-year coma . The film is so preposterously overwrought and mundane that it's hard to imagine that director Steve Mahone could overlook such obvious dullness . The story has an exiled Doctor ( who we never get to see ) move out into the desert to create a vaccine that will cure all diseases by filling the hosts full of antibodies that can combat any infection ( yes , just like that episode of Futurama ) . The vaccines don't work and the human guinea pigs become infected with a virus that kills within 48 hours . Not wanting to be caught by the Government guys in masks the group head into the desert for cover , hoping that the sunshine will kill the virus . All of this is narrated by Michael , the only one of the quartet immune to the infection . And it's the most boring narration ever . They could have cast someone with an interesting voice but instead we get someone with less vocal personality than Clive Owen . On top of this the editor insists on fade-cutting more than half the movie , giving it a weird dream-like feel and increasing the audiences desire to go to sleep . It's no surprise that half of the audience walked out of this , I was not one of them for some reason . But I bloody well should have . The ending is supposed to be shocking and clever and foreboding . But it's plain and simply not . A relief yes , but not dramatic in the slightest . The utter cheapness of this production and muffled sound that renders a lot of the dialogue unintelligible cripples what could have been an interesting sci-fi story if it had better actors , cooler locations and a sense of urgency . As it is , Radiant is a snoozefest .
Very , very dull	This really doesn't match up to Castle of Cagliostro . Lupin isn't as funny or wacky or as hyperactive . The scenery and music are uninspired and plot just isn't interesting . The only good thing about this ' un is the nudity ( only in the uncut version ) provided by Fujiko . It helped spice up some of the tedious scenes . CoC had a formidable villain and set up the movie for some imaginative set-pieces . The locations in TSoTG are not very vivid or engaging . Zenigata , Goemon and Jigen don't even provide decent sideshow entertainment this time . It's like they were just filling a contractual obligation by appearing . The DVD is in full-frame with Dolby Stereo sound . It has a decent amount of extras , including quite a few trailers . But one curious thing . There is no chapter selection on the disc or timecode displayed on the player once inserted . Though you can still skip to the next scene number using the remote .
A movie for idiots .	Many people criticized this movie for having no plot . Which is a result of many people criticizing the first for being too complex . There's just no pleasing some people but this movie could have made up for it by having some class or a formidable villain . Dougray Scott is pretty much one of the worst villains ever and a poor representation of Scottish actors . John Woo uses some wonderful Australian scenery but fails to inject any sense of excitement to the fight scenes . The gun battles look too damn staged and the fist fights are all done in slow-motion , which robs them of any realism or hardcore . Seeing as how this is a PG-13 the action is also pretty damn tame . Which is a shame since Woo is a pro at this . You hardly see any bullets even enter bad guys never mind exit . It's all done off screen . If people wanted tame violence why on earth did they hire Woo to direct ? It's a bit puzzling . Although it IS tame it is still darker and harder than the original . But the duff biochemical warfare plot is pure video game crap . I can't believe Robert Towne had a hand in writing this . It's like a rejected plot to a Solid Snake PS1 game . There's seems to be some focus on making it a James Bond / Die Hard wannabe instead of respecting the source material and offering us any iconic or memorable set-pieces . Another major thing that is wrong with this movie however is Zimmer's score . For a movie that is 124 minutes long we get about 30 minutes of music . Zimmer is known for his talent of creating ambient and versatile music . But NONE of that is present in MI-2 . This was movie was made around the time of his decline into mass-produced soulless stuff . Which is a shame . It's the wrong plot , the wrong director and the wrong approach that turns this into a movie for idiots . They really under-estimated the audience and fumbled the ball with this one .
Hopeless trash	I got all of the Star Wars , Lord of the Rings , Harry Potter and Dungeons and Dragons movies and rudely mashed them together after individually raping them in every orifice then you would get something that resembles Eragon ( even the title is a rip-off of Aragorn from LOTR ) , a film so hopelessly incompetent that even something as basic as lip-syncing is off in almost every scene . Edward Speelers plays the personality-free title character . A young farm boy who is actually the only hope for a bunch of rebels . . . taken over the land of Alagesia . . . the chosen one . . . evil king . . . sorcerers , elves , orks , dwarfs . . . blah blah blah . God , I'm boring myself to tears . Speelers has about as much charisma as a lump of dung . And his forced , well-spoken English really got on my nerves . As much as some of the CGI was nice to look at , it just lacks the fantastical element that films such as Dragonslayer delivered so strongly . And the look and feel of the environments was utterly without any sense of atmosphere . And on top of that , there wasn't really anything happening in the film . A brief , unexciting battle scene at the end is the only action you will see in this movie . The rest of the 105 minute running time is just people riding horses . You think I am kidding ? John Malkovich ( who , by the looks of things , did a single days work ) is wasted as the moronically named Galbatroxix or is it Galbathrax or Ozorganax or . . . something . The evil King ! The King who is evil because he . . . just is . He sits in a dark chamber all day . Christ , how more evil than that can you possibly get . Jeremy Irons is the only good thing in it but he really is slumming it here . As is Rachel Weisz and Robert Carlisle as some sort of trans-sexual zombie wizard . None of them look like they are happy . It's a complete waste of time . Don't be fooled by the colorful posters and TV spots . It's a really terrible film indeed !
All over way to quick	This film ends before anything happens and really doesn't have much going on in it . The whole film seems to be too contrived and way too many events are foreshadowed in a very obvious way . I mean when Jeff Daniels is in his basement and he finds all of the rotten wood with his nail gun . Okay ? rotten wood that will have significance perhaps and the nail gun ? a last ditch weapon against the spiders ? How unsubtle ! The spiders themselves are not very scary as they are practically non-existent thru out the whole film . There are a couple here and there who bite a couple of people who then die . But nothing of interest . Julian Sands ' character is useless and serves no purpose other than to go into a barn he knows is crawling with killer spiders and get bitten himself . What an idiot ! Why ? John Goodman is barely recognisable under a stupid helmet and his dialogue is barely intelligible . The townspeople are clichéd and stereotyped . I mean come on ! They refer to Jeff Daniels as " big city folks " . Way too much time is devoted to Jeff Daniels trying to build a reputation as a doctor and dealing with the Sheriff ( who is a moron , would you believe ) and a rival old Doctor and not enough give to kicking of eight-legged ass . We only see about 3 spiders actually get killed . The rest are , conveniently , done off-screen . People tend to refer to this film as a thrillomedy . No ! It's just dull and uneventful . 104 minutes of absolutely nothing . It's also made in 1 . 85 : 1 , which is never a good thing . Check out William Shatner's Kingdom of the Spiders . That is much better .
If you have the PC-version of the original , don't bother	Jailbreak is an embarrassment to the Road Rash franchise . It's so weak and pointless and the gameplay is unbelievably crap . Everything that makes Road Rash great has been whittled down to nothing that I ended up wondering why they bothered . 1 . You cannot fall off your bike and run around . If you smash into your car you just go right through it . Falling off only happens ( rather unspectacularly ) when you're energy hits zero . But you magically reappear on the bike in a second . 2 . There are only 4 rashers per race . In previous games there were 15 . It doesn't really feel like a race anymore and there are 11 less people to beat-up . 3 . Marshall Lee only chases you . He will not go after any other rashers . 4 . There are very few / no opportunities for stunts / jumps . 5 . The sound effects are rotten . 6 . There is no rear-view mirror or indicators telling you who is behind . 7 . There is no counter telling you how far you've come in the racecourse . There is also a new feature here in which you can play Marshall Lee on his police bike . The aim is to knock the rashers off their bikes before they reach the finish line . But where is the fun in this ? If you're going faster you have to slow down to their speed and painstakingly attack them while maintaining slowness . This is not what Road Rash is about ! Mix this in with some horrible graphics and you have a total stinker of a game . A huge disappointment indeed . Graphics Sound Gameplay - Lasting Appeal
Rubbish until the end	Oh Boy was I disappointed with this pile of crud . Ridley Scott has never made a 1 . 85 : 1 movie in his life but , for some reason , he made this his first . I thought that Manhunter had very cool widescreen photography and Jonathan Demme really should have followed in its footsteps . I thought I could depend on Scott to give us photography as good as he given us before ( Legend , Thelma and Louise ) . But NO ! I have to get that MAJOR gripe out of the way first . But I have some other gripes . Mainly that the film is incredibly boring and has no redeeming qualities whatsoever . Hopkins was cool and creepy in SOTL but here he is just campy and hammy . Did he deliberately try to turn Hannibal Lector into a gay icon ? SOTL received 4 Academy Awards but Hannibal deserves a truckload of Razzies . There are countless , scenes after scenes , of Clarice watching tapes of surveillance cameras and some Italian cop pacing about a rainy and miserable Florence . Ray Liotta pops up occasionally playing a role that was played by someone else in SOTL . He doesn't do much and contributes ZERO to the story . It seems that the only reason his character was in the movie was for the GROSS , GROSS , INCREDIBLY , GROSS ending . The ending is worth the price of admission but it is not worth sitting thru 2 hours of trash to see . It's a real shame that Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs were concluded with this total pile of garbage . Don't see it , don't rent it , don't buy the DVD and do not watch it on the TV .
Ain't got a Scooby	Some spoilers btw . This DVD has a major flaw . More than half the film's dialogue is in Japanese and the DVD does not have subtitles automatically burned into the screen . You have to turn them on , thus subtitling the English dialogue too . Of course , I only figured this out after watching the whole film and not understanding a single thing about it . Still , no subtitles can explain the utterly pointless opening scene that contributes nothing to the rest of the film or what purpose the FBI ' sidekick ' character Sean ( Matthew Davis ) served or why he was killed for finding a severed pinkie which the bad guy clearly did not want as he chucked it in a bucket right away . Why was Seagal's girlfriend killed ? What was the point in killing them if it didn't even motivate Seagal into actually doing something other than going from place to place asking questions , and getting answers , in Japanese . What was the main story ? Who was that lady following Seagal around ? My god , it's such a poorly written and poorly told story I can hardly believe it . I have liked none of Seagal's non-American movies of late . The Foriegner was one of the worst film's have ever seen . But this film does have strong production values , a more mainstream production team and a slightly cool final scene with bad guys getting chopped up and stuff but I still wouldn't recommend renting it , especially since the DVD is messed up and it's nowhere near as good as his older movies like Out for Justice or Under Siege 2 . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound and some pretty heavy punches during the fight scenes . Note to non-cockneys . Scooby = Scooby Doo = Clue
Can anyone say ' Groundhog Day ' ?	The makers of this film could not have seriously thought that they were making an original film . They MUST have known that they were ripping off " Groundhog Day " . They must have . Having said that the film itself is alright . But a little annoying . The kid is okay enough . He's not as irritating as most kids in movies but he does go thru some clichéd " teenage " moments involving girls that was kind of cringe-worthy to watch . Also there was no reason why he fell at the bottom of the stairs every morning . Why did that happen exactly ? This is an acceptable movie to watch on Xmas Eve or around the holiday season . So if a network is showing it then watching it will not be a bad thing .
A horribly rushed , pointless cash-in .	' Oh yes , there will be blood . ' Well about a tea-cup's worth if you're lucky . ' There will be boredom ' would be a more appropriate tagline for this absolutely worthless , mess of a sequel . After the surprisingly great and successful original , Lion's Gate immediately green-lighted this movie for production and completion within less than a year . Exactly how good can a film be with such a short production schedule ? The answer is not very good at all . In fact it's downright awful . Our Jigsaw killer has returned to teach ironic lessons to those who live dull lives yet are not truly alive . Only this time he attracts the attention of Donnie Wahlberg's half-crazed cop ( oh wait , he did that last time as well ) who is so thoroughly incompetent at his job that you'll want to jump into the movie and throttle him . Jigsaw has locked a bunch of strangers in a spooky old house with nerve gas slowly killing them . He gives them loads of clues on how to escape but since they are all idiots , none of them work together and their utter stupidity only serves to force the lumbering plot along and lead to their well deserved deaths . It's not just the bad script that kills the film , after all great filmmakers can make brilliance out of a rotten screenplay . It's the very poor editing , cinematography , pacing and characters that cripple the film beyond repair . Nobody director Darren Lynn Bousman isn't exactly Uwe Boll , but his lack of experience behind the camera gives this entire film an amateurish , hack feel . And don't get me started on how terrible the character's are . Wahlberg plays a clichéd stereotype right out of a bad , 80s , bottom shelf Cop video and the people stuck in the poisonous house are just morons . The first Saw worked so well because we only had 2 victims who conversed and worked with / against each other for the whole film . We had a stronger attachment to them . And they looked for logical ways out before resorting to painful . This time we get loads more victims with little explanation on who they are or what importance they have and they just never use their common sense . Another thing that bogs this sequel down even more is its total reliance on condescending to the audience . Any average movie goer could figure the best way out of most of the booby-traps and death scenarios but these stupid characters just do the dumbest thing so they can get killed and so film offers up another corpse for us to scream at . But not even this works . Some guy climbs into a big oven ( only a retard would do this in a horror film ) and is burned alive . But we don't even see anything ! And when he tries to pull himself out , not only is he not even burnt , but he just dies for no apparent reason . So his feet got burnt a bit , big deal ! If their were no swearing in this film , it would be a PG-13 all the way . Don't expect any of the bone-chilling scares you got first time around . The only thing that stops Saw II from being a complete failure is the interesting , if incredibly stupid , plot twist . But is it worth suffering 90 minutes for ? I would only recommend this film if you expect it to be crap , have lowered your expectations extremely far and obviously if you have the time and money to waste on it . Overall this is a disgrace to the original . Oh and said Saw only appears for about a second and half .
Snoozathon	RoboCop 3 was a crap film and this game is just as dull and an even bigger waste of time . At this point in the 90s video games of movies ( particularly platformers ) were either brilliant or downright terrible . However , it was mostly the latter and RoboCop 3 is no exception . The man in the can goes about his mission of shooting generic bad guys in windows ( man in shirt with gun ! ) or thugs on bikes as he walks from the left side of the screen to the right . The levels are unimaginative and bland with occasionally bizarre design ( yeah , there are often moving platforms on city streets ! ) . The sound effects are poor and the music is mass-produced rubbish . There is a tiny , tiny bit of variety in the different weapons Robo can use but when the gameplay is so boring why would you even waste your time ? Graphics Sound D Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Big Macs for life	How any critic can call Looney Tunes : Back in Action an exercise in franchise promotion but not puke at the 80-minute commercial that is Space Jam is beyond me . Our plot has Danny Devito play the voice of an evil , monster type businessman who's theme park is failing . In desperation he sends 5 little creatures to capture the Looney Tunes and bring them back as the new attraction . So . . . where is Looney Tune land ? Apparently it's underground . And digging up any golf ball hole will eventually lead to it . When the Looney Tunes challenge the would-be kidnappers to a basketball game they kidnap Michael Jordan to be on their team . The quality of the film nosedives from here on . Jordan's acting is so wooden it's mahogany . He expresses no confusion , joy or surprise at being yanked into Looney Tune land and confronted by all the toons . ' Bugs Bunny you're a cartoon you're not real ' , he says in the most flat , boring and dullest way ( missing commas intended as he doesn't use them ) . And then the big game follows . Once it's over , and there's no reason left to continue watching , the film goes on for another 10 minutes ( to beef the running time up ' feature length ' ) with the basketball / Jordan story . It's rubbish . It's no surprise that the film is directed by Joe Pytka ( he's NOT Joe Dante that's for sure ) , a man who has never done any other features but over a 1000 TV ads , or something . Space Jam is nowt but 100 % proof Warner whored out their most famous creation to make a few quick , and cheap , bucks . It's heartbreaking , heinous stuff . Casting Michael Jordan alongside the Looney Tunes is not inspired and imaginative . It's crass and desperate . Now they can attract sports fans AND kiddies . And Michael Jordan of all people ! He's not a good actor and his fame outside of the U . S . is minimal to say the least . Moreso today . The only part of the film that comes ( very , very remotely ) close to the true spirit of the Looney Tunes is the score . James Newton Howard ( a truly bizarre choice , how about Jerry Goldsmith , Bruce Broughton or even Danny Elfman ) recognizes the classic Looney Tunes themes and uses them appropriately in certain moments but the rest of the score is generic and uninspired . Back in Action was intelligent , witty and satirical . Space Jam is corny , cheap and classless . It's an absolute travesty . How can we honestly take seriously a movie that has every cast member awe at Michael Jordan , has not too subtle product placement for McDonalds and has the Looney Tunes ( one of the most ingenious creations in history ) exploited in the most shameless and guilt free manner . With Space Jam , Warner showed that they'd cash in the Looney Tunes at a pawn shop for $5 if they could . A total lack of respect for Chuck Jones , Friz Freleng and Robert McKimson . And they don't even act Looney . The only laughs come from Bugs and Daffy . And it's sporadic and inconsistent . Producer Ivan Reitman ( who has no experience and no business with this franchise ) managed to convince Bill Murray to appear in this drek ( for about 10 minutes ) so the trailer could boast an ACTUAL star other than Jordan . Murray's performance is the bare minimum and has a let's-get-this-over-with feel ( though Murray working below-par is still miles ahead of many other actors at the top of their game ) . His appearance in the film is massively oversold . It's just not fair that THIS is a big hit while Back In Action flopped horribly . I consider it the biggest miscarriage in justice ever . I still blame the marketing for Back in Action . It was bad , REAL bad . But still has some sort of quiet dignity about it when compared to the McDonalds promoted , in your face junk that was Space Jam's marketing . Is it any wonder Joe Dante had Back In Action nicknamed ' The Anti-Space Jam movie ' ? And just what the hell is a Space Jam anyway ? It's not even set in Space ! ! ! It took Warner 3 tries but the finally released the movie in its original aspect ratio . The DVD presents the film is 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with pretty active Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are loads of features but they are all fluff . Some 80's Looney Tunes shorts are included too .
Boring feminist rubbish	It's been said a dozen times already , but The Brave One is basically Death Wish all over again with just hint of Taxi Driver . It is also incredibly boring with lifeless characters and some horribly misjudged moments . Erica Bane ( Jodie Foster ) is a radio host who is mugged in Central Park ( in a totally unshocking scene ) . Her boyfriend is killed and she is badly beaten . The police don't care about her case and she figures that the only way to feel safe on the streets again is to buy a gun , just in case . What a happy coincidence then that Erica meets plenty of baddies after purchasing her new weapon . It gives her the opportunity to have some fun killing people and gives the movie and excuse to exist . It might have been involving had I not felt so utterly detached from the character . Neil Jordan does something wrong , I'm not sure what it is , but he seems to keep us at a distance from Erica Bane from the very beginning . She just doesn't seem like a real , believable person and his handling of her important , emotional scenes come across as flat and cursory . It also doesn't help that the plot is most convoluted and contrived nonense with far , far too many coincidences . How dumb do they think we are , exactly ? It also disturbingly portrays most ethnic minorities as being a threat . If the baddies aren't black or Latino then they are sleazy middle-aged men . Either way , they are male and you be ashamed to be one since Jodie Foster , in her producer capacity , seems to think that we are all potential rapists . Why she felt like she needed to make this statement I don't know . And besides , why should a woman have to go through such an ordeal before she realises that she can be tough ? Why can't she just be tough in the first place ? I think that Jodie Foster , blinded by her feminist arrogance , forgot to consider that THIS might be interpreted as sexist . The main reason for The Brave One ( terrible title ) failing is that Neil Jordan never gets a single camera angle right . At no point in the film do we really feel like we're in Erica's man-hating shoes . His photography and color-schemes are bland and muted instead of being naturalised and realistic , which would have been much more involving . And NYC has been seriously cleaned up since the mid-90s , the film even makes a point of mentioning this . So why then go on to show that it is still crawling with vermin ? Is it or isn't it ' The Safest Big City in the World ' ? I don't think that there is any logic to this at all . Basically , it's a TV movie masquerading as a film that belongs on the big screen . If you find TV movies boring then , chances are , you'll find this unbearable .
Michael Bay does himself no favours	After massively misjudging the scale of Pearl Harbor and reducing it to no more than a video-game recital of a very important historical event , he will have to work extremely hard to win back the tiny shred of credibility he started out with . Following up that garbage with the even worse Bad Boys II wasn't a wise move . The Rock has characters with just a touch more depth . It's not necessarily a big story but he seems to stretch it out over two hours with heinously over-cut action scenes and extraneous sub-plotting . General Francis Xavier Hummel ( Ed Harris ) takes over Alcatraz with some poisonous gas rockets and aims them at San Francisco with the intention of vaporising everyone unless the families of each member of his dead team - what team ? - is paid $1 , 000 , 000 . I mean , if he is prepared to do that then why not just sell them to some militia , or freedom fighter group ? A nerdy and heavily bored FBI agent , named Stanley Goodspeed ( Nicolas Cage ) , is called to San Francisco from Washington to observe and instruct the inevitable SEAL operation to overthrow the Marines on Alcatraz . But wait , there's more . Alcatraz is a maze of twisted metal and broken walls . They won't stand a chance without someone who has knowledge of how to break out . Or break in . And so enters the philosophising and lanky-haired John Patrick Mason ( Sean Connery ) at about 45 minutes into the movie . He's been in jail for 30 years and doesn't have an extreme reaction at having to work for the very people who have held him without trial for so long . There is an utterly pointless and indulgent car chase before he actually gets down to business . And it's a car chase in San Francisco , so you know what that means . Once on the island , the SEALS , as predicted , are crap and get killed instantly . So , basically , Hummel wants to honour his fallen comrades by killing more American soldiers . How absurd . Plus these SEALS have thoroughly extensive training and , in real life , there is NO WAY they'd end up being so useless . Goodspeed and Mason are not a great pairing . Cage cannot make Goodspeed likable no matter how skilled an actor he may be . He's a complete coward . Annoying . Unfunny . The words he says don't sound right coming from his mouth . When he tries to be tough , he just seems ridiculous . Mason is just an old James Bond . Hell , he's even a British Secret Agent . The role was written with Connery in mind , so don't expect anything but his elite brand of OAP smart-ass cool . They involve themselves in a variety of set-pieces before being captured by Hummel , who's mission is not going well . The FBI doesn't want to cough up the money and would rather flatten Alcatraz and its 81 civilian hostages than part company with a few million dollars . Nice . This subplot is , of course , used to generate tension and excitement and to goose up the already overstuffed turkey that is the plot . Coherent editing is not this movie's strength . In fact , coherence is hardly something one would associate with The Rock . There are so many distractions and superfluous plot points that the only way Bay can compensate is to turn every scene into an MTV blur . The target audience is familiar with this kind of film-making anyway , which results in The Rock becoming a huge , clumsy , oafish movie , with little in the way of sense or reality . There are a few entertaining aspects though . Hans Zimmer's score is truly um . . . rocking . The supporting cast is interesting and delivers far more tolerable performances than Cage or Connery . Some of the Alcatraz sets are nice to look at , as well . But , if this is the best thing one can say about an action movie , then one needs to consider something else . Released in the June , 1996 , The Rock is inferior and less engaging than a similar movie released the month before . Executive Decision attempts the same theme and an identical form of tension . In 135 minutes , it wastes no time on sub-plotting , develops far more likable characters and is way more exciting . Exec Dec is played straight . The Rock is played to look cool and hip . It's not . Oh and if Mason is supposed to have a major beef with Womack then perhaps they should have cast someone older than John Spencer who would have been - years-old when his character first crossed Mason .
Waste of time !	Even though most of them are rubbish , the Halloween movies always seem so full of potential when the lights go down and the film fades in to that ominous and slicker-than-crude-oil theme tune . Sadly though , they never attempt anything other than stabbings . John Carpenter's original low-budget horror flick , about a babysitter stalked by the bogey man , was a big hit that brought him much acclaim . A sequel was inevitable . Carpenter even worked on it . But after that , he bowed out and his producer Moustapha Akkad took over . He's not a filmmaker , he's a businessman . And for 24 years , he has served us the same sandwich , over and over . Rick Rosenthal , who directed Halloween II , is back behind the camera . One would assume that his familiarity with the franchise is a good thing . Too bad he's obsessed with cheesy lighting , obnoxiously loud sound effects and confusing editing . This film was supposed to be released in the autumn of 2001 , but apparently there were major differences of opinion when the director of H20 , Steve Miner , started fiddling with the finished print . The original title , Halloween : The Homecoming , was dropped because Dimension Films wanted a title that made it clear that Michael Myers was still alive . So they nicked half the title off an Alien movie and stuck it on . There is only one way to tell a story of teenagers being murdered by a psycho in a William Shatner mask / hockey mask / pillow case . And you've seen it a zillion times . The only minuscule difference this one offers is that the whole thing in broadcast on the Internet , which provides room for some gimmicky , if annoying , set pieces and a few clever tricks . But don't expect jaw-dropping twists , or intensity . An ambitious reality show producer ( Busta Rhymes ) sets up the Myers house with booby-traps and red herrings to juice his sleepover Internet show . A handful of teens , with stereotypical personalities , fall for it and deliver the goods . Until Mikey comes back , that is . What's that you say ? Surely , Mikey can't be alive after Jamie Lee lopped his head off in H20 ? Well , the movie says that Michael stuck his mask onto someone else before being chucked into the back of the corpse-mobile . Umm . . . so where's the actual " resurrection " ? What follows is a shlocky assortment of teenage slayings - Freddy , Mikey and Jason must surely have laid waste to most of teen America by now - and massacres . What motivates Mikey ? Never revealed , man . Carpenter used this to good effect first time round . Parts 4 , 5 and 6 - they dropped the roman numerals after III - added truckloads of story to the Michael Myers myth , which , although nothing but hokum , was at least interesting . H20 completely disregarded those movies and went back to killing for no reason . And now once again , it's just pointless bloodshed . Mikey isn't scary . Jason would flatten him in a second . You know that he's always going to get up after being hung , shot , stabbed , poisoned , fired out of a cannon or run over with a steam roller . There is zero suspense . Watching a rubber dog-doo machine make rubber dog-doo is not interesting . And watching a killing machine kill got boring well over a decade ago . It's time to try something new . Halloween : Resurrection tries a little harder , perhaps . And for this reason , it's one of the better sequels . But it's still a big jive turkey in need of a valuable lesson . Horror films should offend and disgust , not regurgitate the failures of previous sequels .
Tame and sickening kiddie fare	Oh dear , if you're diabetic then I would seriously advise against watching this film . It ' so sugary it'll rot the brain right out of your head . Why on earth Eastman and Laird allowed this to be made is beyond me . It's soooooooo far removed from their black and white comic book . Okay , I know the cartoon series was too but the first movie did have a hard edge to it . I mean , take a look at the cover-the Turtles are smiling and happy . Then look a cover of one of the original comic books . They're almost always gritting their teeth and frowning . THAT'S how it should be . Not like this . Even the animatronics look fake . The first 2 had a rather believable Splinter but now he's juddering and stiff and obviously operated by a couple of technicians loitering a few feet off camera . His voice is also totally different and he seems a touch more upbeat and lively . HARDLY the way Splinter is supposed to be . The plot itself defies logic and there are massive holes all over the place . With such a dramatic change in locale from New York to Fuedal Japan you'd think the movie would take advantage of that and go nuts with imagination . But sadly not . It just . . . goes nowhere . I mean , what is the deal with the character of Whit . Why does he look like the great , great , great grandfather of Casey Jones . In fact , the return of Casey is the only reason I am not giving this a 1-star rating . It's a pretty wretched movie but Elias Koteas can make it a tiny bit less unbearable . Hopefully the new cartoon show and the possibility of another ( harder ) movie will cancel this one out . It's nothing but dated , mindless fodder for under-fives . At the risk of repeating myself ; this is NOT how the Turtles should be . Extras are almost non-existent but the animated menus are cool . The 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture is in pretty good shape but the Dolby 5 . 1 track isn't up to much I'm afraid . The film was originally recorded in Dolby SR so this is obviously a remastering job . It's just adequate is all I'm saying .
Remember Spawn ?	Spawn is a dark and humorous comic book that totally rocks . The film contains none of the pathos , imagination or spirit that the comic book had . Its main fault is that it was toned down for a young audience and had to many CGI FX . X-Men suffers from exactly the same problem . There is VERY , VERY little or action and what little there is is very tame and stolen from other movies ( Matrix , T2 ) . Nothing much happens for long periods of time , the dialogue is nothing but mumbo-jumbo and there are plot holes all over the place . Professor X can sense the presence of mutants from far away but cannot notice a bad mutant walking all over his house . Duh ! The ending was ridiculous . It was completely senseless and did not impress me one iota . The word ' contrivance ' echoed around in my head . If the whole scene had been set on the roof of a supermarket instead of the Statue of Liberty ? would it be cool ? Of course the reason it IS on the big statue is because Magneto wants to turn a bunch of people into mutants with what looks like a giant whisk . Uh ? yeah ? that's inspired . Anna Paquin was competent enough , Jackman was pretty cool , Stewart was Picardish , Jansen was underused , McKellen was campy as hell and James Marsden was as woodenly wooden as he was in Gossip and Disturbing Behavior . Thank Mother Nature he only had about 2 lines of dialogue . I cannot think of any reason why this trash is in the IMDb top 250 . It stinks . Perhaps fans of the comic book , who were so disappointed with the film , gave it because they felt they owed it to the X-Men . Me ? I just wasted my money .
One of the worst .	Kitty Foiled is one of the blandest and most generic T & J shorts I have ever seen . I don't think I laughed once . Every gag is a rehash lifted from another cartoon . How many times has Tom's teeth been smashed like a window now ? The short has T & J already involved in a pointless chase as soon as it starts . A canary ( an annoying new character ) witnesses what appears to be Jerry's potential demise and interrupts to save him by attacking Tom , Jerry then saves the canary in a similar way . The bird and the mouse then team up to make the kitty's life hell with lots of boring assaults on Tom . And I just don't care .
Superficially fun	Def Jam Icon is one of the shallowest games I've played in years and is highly repetitive and boring . You get to create what your character looks like but you have to be male and you must be some shade of black / mixed . This character then goes through the trials and tribulations of becoming a big-shot music producer and you fight your way through all the confrontations in between . Sounds like it might make a good game but it's VERY linear and pretty much every decision you make in the management half of the game has little or no effect on anything . How good would it be to download your own tunes onto the PS3 and mix them into new tracks for the game ? Tough , you can't . There are about 10 different environments to fight in but they all get rather tiresome after the millionth battle and there are never any really cool moments when you interact with the crumbling area . Def Jam Icon is all flash and no substance I'm afraid , I actually liked Def Jam Fight for NY a lot better . Graphics B Sound B Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Wrong movie , wrong time	American Dreamz fails on pretty much everything it set out to do . The basic gist of the plot involves Omer , a hapless terrorist being kicked out of his Afgahnistan training camp because his heart is not in chopping the head of the Western Serpent or something . He relocates to California with wealthy friends , where he accidentally impresses talent scouts for the upcoming American Dreams season ( American Idol , only not ) . The final judge on the show will be none other than the Prez himself so Omer's superiors order him to suicide bomb the final show , killing the Prez in the process . Also appearing in the final round is Sally Kendoo ( a blonde Mandy Moore ) , who isn't the little miss apple pie that she appears to be but a rather vicious and selfish wannabe desperate for fame , not caring who she uses in the process . Her dork boyfriend ( Chris Klein ) has been recently shipped off to Eye-Rack , where he's instantly wounded in battle . The Prez ( an unusual performance from Dennis Quaid ) has been recently re-elected but can't understand why he's been chosen for the job of running the country , so he goes a bit off-the-rails , acting weird and unpredictable while his Chief of Staff ( a brilliant turn by Willem Dafoe ) desperately tries to save face in the ever discriminating public eye . And Martin Tweed ( Hugh Grant as Hugh Grant , again ) keeps all these plot threads held together in a rather course and ramshackle way . None of it is particularly funny or entertaining . As a satire of American Idol it fails , and that's an easy goddamn target to hit . As a mockery of George Warmonger Bush it fails , an even easier target . As a blasphemous mockery of blind religious faith ( a goldmine if approached correctly ) it fails . I don't believe that suicide bombers are something to make light of either . Dozens of people lose their lives every week to these maniacs and to try and make a comedy out of it is obscene Not a lot of effort is put into making the world of this movie seem credible or believable . The ' war ' that Chris Klein is shipped-off to is never clearly defined as the same war Bush started . The ' wrong reasons ' this war was started for , mentioned on the posters , is never once referred to in the movie . I understand that creating a loose connection to reality would be workable if they were going to make some kind of well-formed , articulate statement or pisstake of it , but nothing like that happens . American Dreamz is basically nothing but downright offensive , embarrassing and just plain WRONG ! I think it's extremely arrogant and insensitive of Paul Weitz to make a film like this and to make it so bad as it is , it was hardly worth the effort . Not impressed . Offended yes .
What was it called again ?	If you want a brainless 90 minutes in which you simply do not want to think then this is the kind of movie you might want to rent . Frankie Munitz , mooching off what fame he has left before he becomes a ' former child star ' is the Junior James Bond , a kid in the CIA . Yes , it's stupid but it makes things happen for a while . Hilary Duff is his would-be girlfriend as he freezes up when he talks to girls ( stop it , you're killing me ) . Her dad is some scientist working for a madman ( played by some overtanned Brit ) and he has to infiltrate blah blah blah . . . Yes it is bad , but it could be worse , it could be the sequel . A film so bad and so quickly hashed out that they forgot they already set up Arnold Vosloo as a returning baddie .
Not that great and a slap in the face of the original	I usually give sequels the benefit of the doubt and go easy on them . But this ? is very poor . The exact same as what happened in the first film happens here again . The exact same . Only they wanted younger kids to be able see it ( this accounts for the repeated presence of Bugs Bunny but why they threw in one ' fck ' is beyond me ) . They didn't even bother to change Jackie Mason's character from Dangerfield's . Let me explain , in CADDYSHACK Rodney Dangerfield played a boorish Real Estate owner who enrages the uptight members of Bushwood country club . In this movie Jackie Mason plays a boorish Real Estate owner who enrages the uptight members of Bushwood country club . A big effort they made to change the content of the script huh ? No , I don't think so . A very unfunny Dan Aykroyd shamefully copies Bill Murray's character . He even goes after the gopher ( now more like a Gremlin ) in much the same fashion as Murray did . There is not a laugh to be had . A sample of the ' comedy ' in this film : Jackie Mason is getting ready for a hot date with Dyan Cannon . He is in the bathroom is his robe . He moves to the door to get dressed in his bedroom when ? the door handle breaks off . Wow ! ? ! That's the best they can do . Eight years to think of a completely new sequel and that's all we get ! ? ! I could have pulled a better script out of my ass . See it only if you're a die-hard fan of the original . It's the only way you'll find any kind of laughs in it . Everyone else steer clear .
Very odd	It's weird how the writer / director of such exciting blockbusters such as ID4 and The Patriot could create such a strange film . I'll try my hardest to recount the plot . Two ultra-cheap filmmakers ( art reflects life ) have a great idea for a movie and rope in an unwilling but attractive starlet and make up a Muppet-like monster based on the photographs of a long-dead grandfather's butler . A rival studio producer wants to blow up the grandfather's house as the climax to his big budget movie so the butler's ghost comes back to possess the Muppet doll to lead them to hidden billions in the cellar . It's not a bad film , by no means , it's quite cringe-worthy in places but inconsistently entertaining . There are no big name stars or SFX but that is made up for with bizarre plotting and storyline . This film is more in the style of Roland Emmerich in his Making Contact / Moon 44 days . But if he had the budget he gets these days who knows what this film might have ended up as . I give it for weirdness , plot and defying convention .
The easiest game I have ever played !	It's all over in a matter of minutes seriously . The game involves Spidey going out to buy Mary-Jane a fishbowl but he gets caught up in rumble downtown as several of his enemies run riot . It's up to him to sort them out . In 7 very short levels the game is over . And you'll be left with your jaw hanging open that a game can be so easy . The beat-em-up aspect of the game is pretty lame , all the bad guys look the same , the music is often bland , the level design is dated and the gameplay even less engaging than Spider-Man vs the Kingpin on the Sega Genesis 10 years previous . If you see this game on sale for a matter of pennies then go for it . Otherwise avoid ! Graphics C Sound C Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Pay your taxes !	I didn't quite get this cartoon as the tax system in this country is very , very different from that in America . It appears that if Donald Duck pays his taxes early then somehow it will give the American government a better chance at winning WWII . This Donald does with worrying eagerness . So much so he races across the country with the envelope in his hand instead of relying on the postal system ( do you blame him ? ) . Nothing much else of interest . It does say on a tax form though , that Donald has adopted his nephews Huey , Duey and Luey . This I never knew . It was also up from an Academy Award for Documentary Short Subject .
Quite boring !	One might imagine that because Chris Columbus pulled off a faithful , yet exciting , movie adaptation of the first Harry Potter adventure that he would be able to it a second time . I'm sorry to report that he definitely has not . There are so many things wrong with this film and almost nothing to recommend it . More than two-and-a-half hours are spent rolling around in pure tedium - only the REALLY easily pleased will be entertained . The story has a slightly harder tone than the first , but there is nothing on display that will discomfort anyone of any age . Harry is being mentally tortured and starved by his muggle family during the summer holidays . He longs to go back to Hogwarts , but a Jar-Jar Binks lookalike elf , called Dobby , turns up in his bedroom and warns him that terrible things await him there . It's six of one and half a dozen of the other for Harry , as the Dursleys can be just as evil as anything the chamber of secrets has to offer . Once Harry gets to school - by means of a flying Ford Anglia - his fellow pupils are frozen with fear at the slightest glimpse of something evil . Harry hears voices in the walls that no one else can . And he suffers from the incompetence of the new Defence Against The Black Arts teacher , Gilderoy Lockhart ( Kenneth Branagh , totally miscast ) , who is not as funny as in the book . Five minutes after we are re-introduced to the students and teachers , the film slips into a clumsy mishmash of poorly staged scenes and bad acting . First time around it was easy to turn a blind eye to the amateurism of these kids . But there's no excusing it now . They've had a year to study their performances and see what was right and wrong - I know , I know , they're only kids . Trust me , none of them will be thanking the Academy anytime soon , which makes most of their scenes difficult to watch . Even with the support of such talent as Richard Harris , Alan Rickman and Maggie Smith - Robbie Coltrane is seriously underused - they cannot handle the weight of the material . Their acting seems a few seconds behind the adults and any scene with them together has big contrasts between veteran and novice . Steven Kloves ' screenplay tears out many pages and cuts so many corners from J . K . Rowling's book - once again , Rik Mayall is completely left out - in order to keep a tight pace . Yet the film still manages to be dull and boring . Nothing REALLY happens . And there are far too many pauses and silences in dialogue scenes - an absolute crime in a film of this length . With the exception of the chamber of secrets - which holds precious few secrets , I might add - no part of Hogwarts is explored . Almost the entire movie is shot in a generic corridor and you can bet your bottom dollar that for the other locations Columbus just shot the same set from a different angle . The lighting is conveniently yellow-candlelit , when he wants it to be mysterious , or comfortable , and green , or blue , when it should be menacing . Some credit should be given to the director for trying to make it a little bit darker than before . There's nothing visually disturbing , but the sight of a petrified Hermione and the angles he uses for the film's many and lengthy dialogue scenes echo film noir rather than tame , family friendly blockbuster . Aside from one quidditch match and the final showdown , there is nothing of interest . The mystery is very weak and straight-forward . There is too much talk and not enough action . It doesn't bode well for the rest of the series , which has so far been equally as dull . All the best elements that made the original entertaining are not here . Hagrid has less than five minutes screen time and Columbus exploits our disappointment by giving him a big applause at the end . This did not happen in the book and he only does it because that's his style , to force the audience to cry ( Home Alone , Bicentennial Man ) .
Simple and Slow	Don't get me wrong , I love Darkwing Duck ( where is the series on DVD ? ) but this game does not do him justice . The graphics are nice and look wonderful on a wide TV screen but it's a stiff and slow game to play . What really rattled my chain is that too often a baddie , who is nowhere near you , will take health off you even though he doesn't touch you . Forget ducking ( heh heh ) out of the way in time because the game is too slow to react . And there is practically no way of attacking the baddies apart from using the gas gun , which has no affect on most of them and runs out pretty quickly . The story is quite good though and for all that it is pretty to look at and family-friendly it's the gameplay that really lets this one down . I played the Turbo-Grafx version , which has better graphics than the NES and is a more fleshed-out game . But it's the gameplay that matters and if the NES version isn't as stiff then perhaps you should get that one instead of hunting down the increasingly elusive Turbo-Grafx version . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Grossly over-indulgent vanity piece	At the height of his fame Seagal was allowed to direct this monstrosity about evil Texas oil Aegis company polluting Alaska . With no prior experience in directing Steve stampeded his way into this movie with as much subtlety as a brick in the face . Originally called ' Spirit Warrior ' and hoping to cast loads of English baddies ( among them Anthony Hopkins and Jeremy Irons ) the film is a horrid example of far too much creative control given to one man too blinkered by his own agenda to bother giving us anything resembling decent storytelling . There is nothing significant or exceptional about Seagal's direction . Nor is the action very well done . It's cut too lazily and not shot for maximum viewing clarity . But what reeks about the story is that some big oil magnate called Michael Jennings ( a completely hammy Michael Caine ) wants to build a really shoddy oil rig in Alaska made out of dodgy parts because the rights to the land are about to revert back to the Eskimos after 30 years of non-use . So why wait 30 years to build the bloody thing ? Seagal plays Forrest Taft , an oil rig fireman who suddenly develops a conscience and is promptly eliminated from the payroll by way of being blown up . Only he is rescue by the Eskimos and , this is where the film just goes insane , goes on a spiritual journey in which he wrestles bears and turns into eagles and stuff . I mean , what the hell is all that about ? ? ? Don't even get me started on the scene where he makes a fully-grown hard-ass redneck cry in a bar full of similar stereotypes when the philosophy touches his soul . Then he gets his old self back together and sets about righting all the wrongs of Aegis Oil and saving the environment by littering it with dead bad guys . Jennings hires a bunch of mercenaries ( including R . Lee Ermey and Billy Bob Thornton ) to take out Taft but of course they all prove to be useless since Taft is revealed to be an ex-CIA Agent ( oh dear God . . ) Nothing much really happens apart from shooting and dying and Seagal beating up nameless extras . We've seen all of this before and it's no different this time round . I do appreciate his environmentally friendly attitude but it could have made it a little less obvious and campy . Seagal's tacked on speech at the end originally ran for 30 minutes ( Jeezuz sufferin ' ) but Warner finally stepped in and said a big no-no . We could have had an Oliver Stone or Insider amount of paranoia and conspiracy but this just ends up as the worst of Seagal's Hollywood movies .
A classic in no way .	The original Mario Bros . is pretty much THE most simplest , and boring , platformer you're ever likely to come across . Back then , Mario was no more than the tiny little sprite from Donkey Kong ( called Jumpman ) who vaguely looked like a plumber with red dungarees and a moustache . This time around he's given his own game and a new name and partnered with his brother Luigi ( in green dungarees ) to erm . . . not do that much really . All you do in this game is jump between 3 or 4 different platforms knocking over typical creatures of the Mario franchise . Yup , that's it ! That's everything this game is about . I don't know about you but I'd be pretty upset if I paid for this in the arcade , even if it was 1983 . I got this as an extra with Super Mario Advance 4 so at least I never went out of my way to pay for it . And neither should you . Graphics D Sound D Gameplay F Lasting Appeal
What the hell ?	Um . . . I'm not quite sure how I should describe this film , before telling you what I think . It's not a film about war , or even anything related to war . I'm not sure where this comes from . Early on , one of the narrators , a young boy , claims the world has ended . If so , one can only assume by a war of some kind . But , if the world has ended , how come people are still walking around ? Why is there traffic on the roads ? I am confused ! ! ! Shot in black-and-white on a hand cranked camera - how rebellious and cool , I might add - the film lingers and breezes around what appears to be dilapidated , backwoods , hillbilly towns in the middle of nowhere . Think of the location for Wrong Turn . Nothing much is going on . There is an ancient radio , constantly playing an over-the-top evangelist , a boy and his dog mucking around in the er . . . muck , an alcoholic priest who likes to eat and some bearded junkyard guy who wants to blow his brain out . There is hardly any dialogue , only narration . Much of the sound is from archival and stock recordings . The gritty , flickering , b & w picture looks real cool , but it doesn't capture anything of interest . There is no plot , only a succession of unconnected scenes taped together . " This is the world after the end of the world , acre by acre , fence by fence , the war is lost " is the tagline . I have no clue as to what it means . Me and most of the audience were lost in a very strange world , with no idea what the hell was going on . Ordinarily I would give a film like this a rating . But there's something about the raw edge and dream like quality that makes me give it instead . In an ideal world , I would love to make some kind of weirdo thingy like this and I adore the fact that it was shot on a hand-cranked camera . I've never seen a movie made with something like that . I feel even cooler than usual now . And that's mighty cool indeed .
I guess they were running short of money	This cartoon is one of the earliest forms of a ' clip show ' that I have seen . You've seen ( and no doubt been annoyed ) the episodes of The Simpsons where they go ' remember when ' before cutting to old footage , thus trimming down on the cost of original production . Well , that's what happens here . Tom is planning the usual amount of torture for Jerry when the radio warns him that it is ' Be Nice To Animals Day ' . Convinced that he should be kind for once , Tom bakes the mouse a cake , grabs some presents and waits by his hole . But Jerry ain't home , and it's a perfect opportunity for Tom to grab his diary and reminisce about all the time the mouse got the better of him , cue the old footage . One to skip .
Awkward and uncomfortable .	I'll still maintain that the laugh track on I'm Alan Partridge dates it somewhat , especially in comparison to similar shows like The Office or Extras , but it's absence on this one-off TV Special kind of makes it a bit difficult . By this point , Alan Partridge is just reduced to an idiot who makes the worst of every situation and crosses almost every single person he encounters . I hate the fact that Steve Coogan chose to take his most popular character in this easy , Homer Simpson-like direction but that's beside the point . Alan is interviewed in a sort of Sunday morning BBC one-to-one with a presenter who makes a poor effort at making falseness of it seem genuine . Neither of them have a clue what they are doing and the only focus seems to be Alan's misunderstood autobiography and his hatred for London or people who don't share his views . Not that good .
Boring .	Though miles better than the ( awful ) first game this still suffers from major bore . The free-roaming game play would be great if there were a bit more variety and things to do . The main problem is that the gaming area is absolutely immense . While this may be a good thing ( a whole state is your gaming area in the upcoming GTA : San Andreas ) there are very few definitive landmarks to give you some kind of orientation . It's based on the real New York , with all the famous buildings , but literally hundreds of streets look the same and it's very , very easy to get hopelessly lost . Plus the only method of travel is swinging . Yes , it's cool , but very slow considering the area you have to cover and not to easy to control unless your a genius with the control pad . And the missions are all the same . Stop an armoured car hijack , stop a guy stealing a car , save some idiot hanging off a building , beating up nameless thugs , save some guy hanging off a building , stop some guy stealing a car , save some guy hanging off a building . . . boring . When you complete a mission that should be it done for the whole game , none of this again and again and again trash . The average score for completing these missions is 250 hero points . . . you need 1 , 000 , 000 to reach Doc Ock at the end of the game . Sorry I ain't sticking around long enough to 4000 tedious missions . The only cool thing about this game is that it's narrated by Bruce Campbell . The rest seems like a rushed movie tie-in , not a real game .
Dud	Talk about being boring ! I got this expecting a fascinating insight into the life of the man who wrote the mythical Night on the Galactic Railroad . I expected to see crazy stories and hijinks of an eccentric man and to discover his inspirations for such bizarre material . Boy , was I wrong . Spring and Chaos is mostly boring with only sporadic moments of innovative animation . It's certainly nothing to write home about and nowhere near as good as NOTGR which is something that I suggest you watch instead . Leave this bore alone . If you absolutely MUST see then either rent it or find it somewhere cheap . Do not pay top dollar .
Who's your buddy ?	I'll admit it ; I have never seen any other Kevin Smith movie aside from Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back . And even in that movie his lack of class and tendency for cheap vulgarity kind of turns me off him . Despite some moments of ( often childish ) humor ( any bit with Jay and Silent Bob and the cool ' new ' Jesus image ) , Dogma mostly fails on every one of its intentions . Rather than the ' epic ' most people are calling this film I consider it to be way overlong and overbearingly self-indulgent . It seems that Kevin Smith has a savage and acidicly cynical view of the Catholic Church and rather than making a movie that unravels any hypocrisies or sheds light on double standards he's made a sprawling shambles that too often goes off in lumbering tangents ( one of Smith's constant failings ) . There's nothing unsubtle or smooth about Dogma . No class or dignity . The dialogue may be considered as biting satire to the casual viewer , but it's actually increasingly tiresome and nothing more than exposition . I kid you not ; over 90 % of the dialogue in this film is expositional and bores to tears . There's nothing worse than Chris Rock , Linda Fiorentino and Selma Hayek rambling on and on and on with nothing happening and still they go on and on and on and on and on . . . I cannot believe that there are 100 minutes of deleted scenes from this movie . How on earth the full cut of this movie was tolerated by even the editors is a mystery to me . Proof positive that Kevin Smith has no control over his ' creative ' tantrum . There is also the bonus of having the WORST musical score in history ( and that includes Harry Manfredini's jarring noises in Jason Goes To Hell ) . What a horrible , headache-inducing drone it was ! The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound , so now you can enjoy that awful score in its full glory on your home theatre . A plethora of extras are , for some reason , included on this DVD . Which is only further proof that the film thinks it's far better than it actually is . There are ' real ' good movies that don't get this many extra features on DVD and I assure you I have no intention of knowing more of this film .
A clunker that is alternately good and terrible	This is definitely better than HOHH but it was panned severely by critics because of the extreme overdose of CGI and the camp-Gothic sets . Like HOHH , it is a remake of the original of the same name . The original Haunting was quite good for it's day . But let's be honest ? it's not it's day anymore . But what annoyed ME most about this movie was Lillie Taylor's character . I just didn't like how she whispered every word and was a bit of a weirdo . The ending's a little corny but some decent frights throughout make up for that . The sound design in the cinema was incredible . I was very scary and you really did feel like there were ghosts behind you and from every other direction . It was most impressive . HOHH tried to be quick and frenetic . In doing so it lost character and dialogue . But The Haunting takes a little bit of time to build and in some places is almost a psychological horror . For these ambitions alone , it is better than House on Haunted Hill .
No excitement	Probably the least exciting Bond movie ever made and that's including the Lazenby one . Nothing happens that is worth mentioning . There's a scene with a pipe or something that is good for about 2 seconds . The rest is an unbroken succession of bore after bore after bore . How on earth the filmmakers thought that audiences would be entertained by this is a mystery to me . Robert Carlyle is so unscary he belongs in Sesame Street . Denise Richards is a nuclear scientist ( ! ) who wears tight fitting tops and hot pants instead of the white coat . Director Michael Apted seemed an odd choice to me and he has succeeded in making every single scene as dull and leaden and unimpressive as it is possible . Watch this movie only if you are a Bond fan . If you watch them just like any other movie though . . . do NOT waste your cash .
What the . . . ? ? ?	In Elmer Fudd's first ever appearance we do not get the Elmer we know and love but fatter guy with a huge head and an ugly bulbous nose . He puts together a ' camera ' ( snigger ) and heads to the woods to take pictures of wildlife . Once there he settle for a picture of Bugs Bunny . Or at least something very remotely resembling ( and sounding nothing like ) Bugs Bunny . Bugs then proceeds to torment him for no good reason . The cartoon feels like the Itchy and Scratchy parody ' Worker and Parasite ' from an episode of The Simpsons . The one even Krusty himself yells ' What the hell was that ? ' to . Neither Bugs nor Elmer seem at all familiar and act way out of character . Not very good at all .
Lighthearted , soulless sequel	A lot of the original magic is absent in this belated sequel . The storyline isn't up to much and is never taken full advantage of . One thing that is sorely missed is the wide , power score from the first film . Elmer Bernstein was ditched and the music was done by long-time hack Randy Edelman used none of the themes from the original . It's all just light-hearted cues that are used . The plot takes a backseat to long character explanation and development . The Ghostbusters have been out of business since blowing up Central Park West . They are forbidden from performing public services . But a narrow-minded Judge wants to send them to jail for causing a massive blackout . Then , 2 ghosts show up and they bust them and before you can say ' who ya gonna call ? ' they are back busting undead ass . Something I find very stupid and annoying about the plot is that the aforementioned Judge and a City Attorney repeatedly say that they do not believe in ghosts . Obviously these guys have forgotten about the 200-foot marshmallow man and the evil voice of Gozer booming all over Manhattan Island . But the villain isn't as scary as the Gozer . This time it's Vigo , a 14th century madman who wants to return to living form and has targeted Weaver's child as his host . He plans to do this before the stroke of midnight on New Years Eve 1989 or some baloney . For a film that has it's build-up and climax on New Year's Eve there is No mention Xmas whatsoever . And the ending with the hidden painting is REALLY corny . I scoop of trivia : In the montage with the Ghostbusters running all over New York after suddenly coming back into Business we see a clip of Ray driving like a maniac and Peter gives him a strange look . This scene was originally going to follow after the scene in which Ray is hypnotised by the painting of Vigo . The Ectomobile was supposed to crash into a tree in Central Park and we see a shot of the license plate fall off and Ray come out of his trance . But this entire scene was cut from the film and is only left in the montage .
Great opening	But it's all downhill from there on . For about 20 minutes this movie promises to be cool and funny thru-out but quickly becomes boring and stupid . The characters just do not use simple logic and it is way hard to side with them . I really did want the trucks to run them over . Beware , there may be some spoilers here . Everyone at the truck stop knows that Mr . Hendershot has a truckload of weapons and rocket launchers in the basement . So why don't they just use them against the trucks ? Duh ? The dialogue sucks too . There is not one memorable line in the entire movie . And the acting is sporadically bad . The girl who becomes Emilio Estevez's girlfriend is very beautiful but she cannot act her way out of a linen closet . The pointless AC / DC soundtrack is totally worthless and contributes ZERO to the film . For Spiderman fans ( like me ) there is a bonus tho , as there is a huge face of the Green Goblin on the toy truck . But that's still no reason to watch this farce . The reason these trucks are coming to life is because the earth is caught in the tail of a comet ( which we never see ) and all machines are rebelling against mankind . We don't see many other machines other than the trucks but it turns out that it was all just a plot by aliens to sweep us off the planet . This is unseen also , we are simply told this from words on the screen at the end of the movie . COME ON ! Stephen King should stick to writing as he has handled this film VERY badly and this is very strange as he should know how to transfer his book to film . There is another movie version called TRUCKS . Perhaps you should check that out instead as I cannot imagine anything being worse than this . I do think that if John Carpenter directed this film it could have been cool , but let's just forget about it ? quickly .
Generic first person shooter	I'm really rather sick of first person shooter games . They are a dime a dozen and with all the Medal of Honor and Call of Duty games out there do we really need another ? The previous game in the Bond universe was Everything or Nothing , which wasn't a first person shooter , something new . But this one goes back to something old . There is a bit of a twist though . It's fun to play a villain , there's a little bit of RPG ( only a touch ) and the villains from the older movies ( such as Dr No , Blofeld , Oddjob , Goldfinger and Francisco Scaramanga ) come back , even though they are supposed to be very , very , long , long dead . But this novelty didn't last long and I quickly became bored of the game . Plus there is too much going on . Hooked up to a home theatre this game is loud and thrilling but it will easily induce epileptic seizures so beware . Plus the targeting is terrible . If you have a gun that sprays bullets everywhere you will still have trouble killing a lone enemy in the distance . This got highly irritating . As these type of games go even Die Hard : Vendetta was better . Nice music though . Rent it to try it out first as buying blind would be a serious error in judgment .
Not hooked .	If a game doesn't hook me within the first half-hour then I'm just not going to see it through to the end . Homeworld just seemed like Age of Empires : In Space to me and the slow , confusing gameplay really got on my nerves . I know that this game has an Army of fans who will denounce my comments , but I simply could not get into it . Usually , I like space games and I was hoping that this would have a Star Trek-ish feel to it . I also quite the Wing Commander games and since it only cost me 99p then I thought I might as well give it a go . Call me shallow , but it didn't give me instant satisfaction and uninstalled it after only 45 minutes .
Cruel , evil and barbaric .	I'm dead against Fox hunting . It's just plain evil and it's not even a bloody sport . It's just bloody . It's banned here in Britain though evil toffs still participate in and don't get arrested . Donald and Goofy are on such a hunt . They don't manage to kill the fox as the horses are lame and the dogs are too dumb to rip the poor animal apart . In fact , nothing at all really happens in this 8-minute cartoon other than the dogs leading Donald the wrong way . While I hate the hunt you have to appreciate that this was made during Disney's non-PC days . Nothing like this would be made now . The very core of what Disney build his empire on has been quashed by the PC dunderhead execs that run it now . If Walt were alive today he'd be furious .
If the Sun ' newspaper ' made a documentary it would be this .	Right , let me begin by saying that the tagline of this film is wrong . ' The true story that inspired Scarface ' . Um . . . isn't Scarface a remake of a film from the 30s ? And wasn't the bulk of Scarface's writing and production already complete by the time this documentary really gets to any story in it's chronological order ? If you like watching TV shows in which you're bombarded with endless montages of unsourced and random facts then this is for you . But seriously , I have seen better production values on Channel 5 . Calling this TV quality stuff is an insult to TV . The editing is all over the place and it frequently looks like the filmmakers are trying to edit together a sentence that wasn't actually said . If you have seen the episode of The Simpsons in which Homer is interviewed on TV by Godfrey Jones then you'll know what I mean . Credit must be given to the crew for actually managing to track down the majority of the drug dealing scum and murderers for honest and open interviews . But with practically no archive footage to work with the film looks incredibly bland . It's also way too long and you'll be looking at your watch by the 80-minute mark . A sequel is in production ( oh , lucky us ) detailing the life of the Psycho Woman in charge of it all , but you'll excuse me if I have more interesting things to do , like licking the dust from the skirting board behind the radiator .
Cheap propaganda	Using lots of recycled animation ( most obviously from The Band Concert ) this Disney wartime cartoon , made for screening in Canadian cinemas , is very unsubtle and is more of a frank advertisement than anything else . It's yet another one of those shorts that does nothing but promote war bonds 4 for 5 . I still have no clue what this means despite seeing half a dozen cartoons like this . And it got boring after the first one . It's amazing people still bought war bonds after being bored by cartoons such as this . I would certainly be spending my hard earned dough on myself instead of war bonds . Though if the cartoons got worse I would just buy the bonds to shut them up in the end . Disney did some shocking and interesting wartime shorts but this the cheapest and most boring I've seen so far .
Ghost Ship it ain't	In fact it's more like Event Horizon underwater . The first half was pretty cool and built up a good deal of suspense . But as it nears the end the story falls into incoherence and suffers from obviously deleted scenes . If the script were tighter then this film could have been great as David Twohy's direction is not really to blame . He creates a unique atmosphere and nice underwater visuals that give the film an original look . I just wish that the horror / spooky aspect of the movie were stronger . When the ghosts appear they do so in a genuinely creepy way that seems ' realistic ' . It's these parts of Below that I like but it gets way too silly towards the end . The cast is unusually solid with the exception of Olivia Williams , who is horribly miscast and fails to make any connection with the audience or bring her character to life . The DVD is sports a powerful Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack with a great looking 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic transfer .
Poor and tedious game	Thank heavens I bought this in a clearance sale . It did not keep my attention for long and for 2 reasons . First , it is a very easy game and very quickly finished and second , there just wasn't enough going on . The graphics were atmospheric and did create a cool mood similar to that of the movie but the sound was barely noticed . Slight music and sound effects kicked in once or twice each level and the voices were so obviously not Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones . Puzzles are easily solved and there is practically no mystery . The gameplay is simply dull . Character control is shockingly dated and there isn't even much for them ( you can play K , J or um . . . Linda Fiorentino ) to do . All you basically do is walk around in a very limited environment where usually nothing fills the screen . Considering the scale and ambition of so many modern games this one seems extremely primitive in comparison . Definitely not worth attention for anyone over the age of 8 .
Why does Tom Cruise ?	There's nothing in Tropic Thunder that you haven't seen Ben Stiller spoof before , and spoof better , in five minute clips such as Mission : Improbable or Die Hard 12 : Die Hungry . His character of Tugg Speedman is yet another one of his many un-self-aware stereotypes like Derek Zoolander or White Goodman . Besides this , what is most disappointing about Tropic Thunder is the fact that Stiller had all the pieces to make a truly great and sublime comedy , but he messed it up . Yes , I did laugh here and there but I'm afraid that most of the jokes miss the mark and the comic timing is a little bit off . The randomness of some scenes defy the internal logic and seem like they belong in a different film . I was wishing for a sharp satire on modern Hollywood , but all we get are unironic bad-taste gags . The fake trailers in the opening are the best part . The cast are mostly wasted , and the motivations of their stupid actions seem to be lost on them , the actors they are playing and the roles those actors are playing . Get your head around that . I think that Stiller got a little muddled when writing the script . They never really kill anyone and we never know if they are firing blanks or not . And if they are , why don't they pick up some real guns when they have the chance ? It's better than Zoolander by a million miles , though it's really sad how a film this flat and uninspired blows the box office away while something like Last Action Hero , a very similar film which is a hundred times as good , ends up being a flop and laughed at whenever it's brought up in conversation . Do yourself a favor , skip Tropic Thunder and spent the night inside with the DVD of Arnie's misunderstood 1993 epic .
Mildly entertaining cartoon for 3 year olds .	The ' Silly Symphony ' , The Wise Little Hen feels more like one of those huge , books with thick cardboard pages you read to infants in order to help them learn basic words and morals . It may be notable for the first appearance of Donald Duck ( in a supporting role ) but the rest of it is mainly annoying . I seriously do not like the Peter Pig character and I do not ever want to see him again . He was fat and rude with a rubbish voice . And the mother hen had this irritating gimmick of clucking out certain words . The story goes that the Hen and her chicks need help planting her corn . Pete and Donald pretend to be ill but once the corn grows ( no thanks to them ) they feel well enough to eat it . Too bad the hen is only serving them Castor oil . Hope the lesson isn't too subtle .
A waste of a license	Ghostbusters II was a pretty average movie and not a good video game . I got this for my Commodore 64 way back in 1989 . And I paid full price for it too ( a whopping £9 . 99 ) and it came in one of those over-sized cardboard boxes . It looked like it should have been great . It wasn't . Basically , there were 4 levels , all with different gameplay . Which would have been fine if the first level were not so bloody hard . Remember that scene in the movie where Ray got lowered deep into the sewers and discovered a river of slime ? Well it's that scene that makes the first level . You control Ray as he descends , trying to avoid big hands coming out of the walls and other little nasties . If they got too close the rope snapped and you fell into oblivion . It was too hard . The rope always snapped . Luckily though I figured out a cheat and managed to play the other 3 levels in which you played the Statue of Liberty as it stomped through New York and took on Vigo inside the museum . But nothing seemed to ease my anger at the difficulty of the first level . Not a good game and certainly not one I would rush out to buy . The graphics and gameplay were at their best on the Amiga and DOS versions of this game if you simply must though . Graphics C Sound C Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Just not fun to play .	I am very disappointed with this game . It may have very nice and cartoony graphics but the gameplay is terrible . You play Eduardo and Kylie from the TV series and must defeat an evil Count called Mercharior who has kidnapped other members of the Ghostbusters . There are only four levels : the old building , the graveyard , the theatre and the botanical gardens . Before making your way through these bland platforming stages you must race to the destination on time in a top-racing stage where you control Ecto-1 . Both are dull and could have been taken a lot further . It seems like such a rushed and unfinished product . The music is boring , the ghosts are generic and the level design is annoying . You never really get the real sense of busting ghosts since you just shoot them with the Ion ray and they vanish . There's no use of the PKE meter or holding or trapping and it just turns the game into a platforming shooter . And why is there no save system ? This password crap is a joke . The GBA does have a save function you know ! If you're a total Ghostbusters fan then pick this up cheap . Otherwise leave it be , it stands out neither as a Ghostbusters product nor as a semi-decent game . Slimer appears on the box but isn't even in the game ! Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Bland , generic teen romance	I'm a bit of a sucker when it comes to Mandy Moore , I loved A Walk to Remember and Saved but I'm afraid there's nothing new or interesting about Chasing Liberty . A girl who just happens to be the President's daughter ( one of those safe , non-mass-murdering , non-greed-driven , non-corrupt President's that only exist in movies ) escapes her parents clutches to go off on an unrestricted journey of self-discovery yadda yadda yadda . But here's the catch , the man she's travelling with is working for her dad . Gee , do you think she'll be heartbroken when she finds out ? How utterly predictable . The romance blossoming between the two agents tailing her ( Annabella Sciorra and the great Jeremy Piven ) is more interesting but hardly brilliance . Her journey across Europe isn't even that interesting and she meets nothing more than assortment of stereotypes along the way . If a Euro-travelogue movie is what your after than go for European Vacation . The movie is presented in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound and a bunch of extras I so do not care for . Sorry Mandy , I am unimpressed this time .
Not impressed !	Somewhere inside the overlong , 114-minute Bullitt there is a brisk 90-minute long film desperate to get out . But as it is , it's seriously overlong with nothing to sustain it . Many pointless scenes come and go with loads of long , indulgent tracking shots goose-up the running time . I almost nodded-off a few times , I honestly don't see what all the fuss is about regarding this film . The paper-thin story has Detective Bullitt trying to determine how a Mob informant in Police custody managed to be killed ( he's not actually killed until about an hour later though ) . A local politician ( Robery Vaughn , who didn't really want to do the film ) acts as the token bureaucrat , standing in the way of getting things done . But getting WHAT done exactly ? In 114 minutes almost NOTHING happens in this damn movie ! Instead of mystery , clues , police procedure , shoot-outs and problem-solving we're treated to scene after scene of . . . not much . Bullitt eats food at the hospital , he goes shopping for celery and TV dinners , he hangs around with his girlfriend ( a completely pointless character played by Jaqueline Bissett ) and sometimes takes a passing interest in the case . About 80-minutes into this bore he is FINALLY involved in a car chase ( THE car chase that everyone raves about ) that ' tears up ' the streets of San Francisco . I don't understand why this film has so much adoration or why all the fans proclaim it's ' the original and best ' , ' the one that started it all ' or any other generic soundbite you can think of . There were cop movies before this , there were car chases before this . What exactly is Bullitt credited with ' starting ' ? A sense of being cool , calm and collected doesn't turn water into wine . Bullitt is plain , repetitive , agonizingly slow and almost completely without a plot . Don't consider me a philistine or someone who has been brainwashed by the over-edited nature of modern films where we're guaranteed and explosion every five minutes . I appreciate films from all eras and from all backgrounds . But Bullitt is just way , way overrated certainly does not deserve the high regard it's been lauded with . A real disappointment .
Not THAT original	I've always called the first Matrix film a rip-off . It's a mix of many different films put together with important parts stolen from the Terminator ( robots rule the future and have enslaved the remainder of humanity ) , Total Recall ( futuristic ' Is it a dream or reality ' sci-fi ) and even Johnny Mnemonic ( futuristic cyberpunk genre starring Keanu Reeves as a guy who can plug computers into his head and ' go into them ' ) , plus various other works by William Gibson and a lot of Anime . It does deliver a lot of potential ( that the sequels failed to honor ) and has been influential on post-modern action but no matter how much I know The Matrix is loved I just can't get over the fact that I've seen most of it in other movies . It's the style of the Matrix that's more fondly cherished than the story . It won 4 technical Academy Awards , proving that all the Matrix is is eye-candy . Call that narrow-minded if you want but I believe this movie is no more than a very , very popular cult movie . A contradiction in terms yes , but still the most appropriate way of describing it . I only bought this DVD because it was super-cheap and came in a new purple keep-case instead of the flimsy old snappers . The DVD is in 2 . 40 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and has Dolby 5 . 1 sound .
Real Easy	This was a very easy game to finish but it was still fun for a while . Even if you are a novice gamer you can still finish this one in about 2 weeks . But there was a major problem with it . There was so much footage that we never got see that involved the relationships between the characters . The plot always took over just when the voyeuristic appeal was setting in . There was never any way around this so the game almost followed the same path every single time . The ' revelation ' at the end was pretty disappointing and the climax was all over too quickly . And Corey Haim must have been totally desperate for work for appearing in this . The Sega CD version has really crappy lo-res video too .
Pretentious bore .	The Lives of the Saints starts off with an atmospheric vision of London as a bustling city of busy , quaint streets and sunshine . I was hoping it would maintain this atmosphere , but it gets bogged down in a story that goes pretty much nowhere . Othello works for big , fat Mr . Karva , his crime-boss step-dad ( at least I think that is what he is supposed to be because it's never really defined , but he does drop kittens into deep fat friers , so trust me , he's a prick ) doing scrappy little errands while his skanky girlfriend gives daddy hand-jobs . One of his colleagues is Runner , a black dude who is always dashing from A to B . Until the day he comes across almost mute homeless child who grants him his wish of being able to stop running . Runner dumps the lost boy in Othello's flat , where he promptly starts granting more wishes . Keen to have some of his own desires fulfilled , Karva has the boy kidnapped . But he isn't sure of what would really bring him happiness . Is it the innocence of being a child again or is it another hand-job ? Either way , I don't want to see the little boy grant him the second . It just takes ages to get going and there are loads of repetitive scenes . The ending tries to be shocking but since there's hardly any back-story on investment in any of these characters it only serves as a release for the bored audience . Writer Tony Grisoni , a favourite of Terry Gilliam , tries to blend in some kind of religious allegory which ends up being pretentious as all hell , ironically . If he gave us something more accessible or at least had better explanations for the characters suddenly acting all weird then it would have been a more enjoyable film . As it is , we are introduced to a bunch of annoying loudmouths who then miraculously seem to develop intelligence when confronted by the mysterious boy . Who's origins are never revealed . That's just plain irritating ! Aside from sporadic moments of atmosphere and a moody score , this film has little to recommend .
Yaaaaaaawn !	I would say that video games don't come much simpler than this bore but the likes of Pong and Pac-Man , while less technically sophisticated are still better . Golden Axe 2 is such a chore to play with no fun or enjoyment injected into the proceedings whatsoever . Again , you can choose from barbarian Ax Battler , amazonian Tyris Flare or dwarf Gillius Thunderhead as you slowly plod your way through a generic as hell fantasy kingdom , hacking and slashing at conveyor belt enemies ( who sometimes kill themselves out of sheer stupidity ) before you get to the big guy in a suit of armour who has taken over the land because of his evilness or whatever nonsense . I often associate Golden Axe with Streets of Rage since the gameplay in the first games was very similar ( I also bought them on the same day back in March 1993 ) . But while the SOR series only got better and more sophisticated I am afraid that Golden Axe just got crapper . It tries to be the gaming equivalent of a big budget Conan movie but comes off as no more than a Roger Corman mini-series . You've never played a game so stripped down and bland as this . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal FPros : It's a lot like Golden AxeCons : It's a LOT like Golden AxeSound effects are no more than white noise . Baddies all look the same . No point system . Very , very little in the way of power ups . No combo moves . Collision detection is poor . Music is just ghastly .
Atmospheric , but extremely boring .	Simon Magus is a weirdo living in some peasant country shire who every hates because he talks to the devil and plants . He's Jewish but isn't allowed to be a proper Jew because he's weird . So he tries to be a Christian , which the local priests are happy to help with since it will deplete the Jewish manpower , thus giving them more muscle in the future trading of the village once a new railway station is built . Are you bored already listening to this ? Imagine having to suffer through the whole film . The only good thing Simon Magus has going for it is the wonderful widescreen photography and lovely English countryside locations . Other than that you'll be needing caffeine pills to stay awake during the boredom . It seems like an ' epic ' student film with lofty ambitions but there's a massive amateurish feel to it . The sound design just doesn't seem right and some of the editing looks like it's been done on a home computer . Actors like Iain Holme and Rutger Hauer come and go with no real effect on the film or the viewer . Both of them look thoroughly bored and wish to vacate the premises immediately . I wouldn't bother with this film , it has nothing to offer apart from pretty scenery . And you can go out for a drive in your car if you want that .
One Cool Cat	The Pink Panther is cool as cool can be . And so funny and cute . In this cartoon he observes some little dude painting a house blue . Preferring Pink to Blue he goes about sabotaging the painter's work . Every where the painter paints in blue , the Panther paints in Pink . Sounds simple and not funny , but it's hilarious . The Pink Panther cannot be outsmarted , he's just always way ahead of the game and in the end he inevitably wins and claims the now pink house for himself . And why not ? Though only 40 years old and not really as well established as the Looney Tunes cartoons The Pink Panther is surely one of THE classic animated characters .
More Holes Than A Truckload Of Old Socks	Imagine a nuclear apocalypse movie from hardcore Asian director John Woo , written by the guy who wrote Speed and Hard Rain / creator of TV's Boomtown and starring John Travolta as the villain . Does it sound good ? It might have looked good on paper but as a film it's a complete and utter disaster . The problem is the uninspired story is full of zillions of holes , Travolta's campy performance , Woo's direction is almost entirely muted ( it's practically a generic action film ) and slow , plodding story . It's supposed to be fast paced , going from one climax / hair's breadth escape to the other , but it's padded out with dozens of ' helicopters just flying around ' scenes . And what is the point in a muted John Woo movie ? Even in the highly censored ( and still superior Hard Target ) his style was still prominent and in your face . It leads me to believe that maybe Broken Arrow has had some violence and action taken out . But from the looks of the film all that is missing is story . Broken Arrow is worse than brainless . There are so many errors and mistakes in the plot that you'll be hard pushed to find a more illogical and nonsensical movie ( Ballistic : Ecks vs Sever not included ) . Plus , like in Woo's Face Off , Travolta seems to be under the impression that no matter what he does it's automatically cool and hip . He doesn't even try to get into the character of Vic Deakins or bring him to life or give him a new dimension . I mean Deakins is , without a doubt , a weirdo who has seriously lost his mind . If some other actor had gotten this role ( Johnny Depp , or even John Lithgow would have been a far better choice ) then the movie would have risen a little . Sadly tho , we just don't click with Deakins or feel sorry for him or even side with him . This particular villain could have provoked so much out of us , especially with Woo's trademark melodrama , but Travolta just goes campy all the way . Not cool ! Christian Slater is simply okay as the hero and the gorgeous Samantha Mathis doesn't have much to do other than stand around looking distressed and pretty . They make for a cute couple tho , especially if you liked them in Pump Up The Volume . And how many helicopters did they blow up in this film ? It seems as if a helicopter blows up every five minutes . It really becomes so dull and repetitive . Boom ! An explosion ! Wow ? The A-Team did better explosions than this . What so interesting about the zillionth ball of flame rising into the air ? The only cool thing about the movie is what saves it from a 1-star review ; Hans Zimmer's awesome , highly exciting and atmospheric score . The score carries the movie . Without it Broken Arrow would be no more than Broken Movie . If you want a countryside based / railroad / nuclear actioner then check out Under Siege 2 . with the exception of Seagal's acting , it's vastly superior to this on all levels . The DVD isn't even anamorphic so if you have widescreen TV then the Region 2 DVD is the way to go . The Dolby 5 . 1 sound is great but a DTS track would have been better . The menu screens have a ' Special Features ' option but it only contains a trailer ( and not even the good trailer ) . So much for the features !
Both incarnations are nothing more than average .	I had the Predator 2 video game on the Commodore 64 . The graphics were horrible , but the side-scrolling first-person shooter gameplay was involving if far inferior to the likes of Operation Wolf . I never made it to the end . The Sega Genesis version is an isometric platformer that has almost nothing to do with the film . Once again you play as Mike Harrigan , Danny Glover's character in the film , and you run about killing drug dealers and rescuing hostages . It's only 4 levels long and it gets very boring very quickly . Plus , it's quite easy . To charge £39 . 99 for a game like this back in the day is robbery . Only serious fans of the film should bother to check out these games . If the Genesis had been an upgraded version of the Commodore 64 approach to the game then it would have been much better . As it is , both games are tepid and inoffensively average .
I never really liked this much	I know this is going to sound like sacrilege but I was never a fan of the Mortal Kombat games . Having played Street Fighter and Fatal fury before it I just didn't see much point in another fighting franchise . Plus , the digitised graphics , which were supposed to be ' groundbreaking ' and make us all go ' ooohhh , ahhh ' were just really rubbish . They were so blocky and resembled just a few big , chunky pixels vaguely in the shape of a human . I tired of it pretty quickly I'm afraid to say but a few months after I stopped playing it I went back after finding cheat codes in a magazine to restore the censored gore . But even that was dumb ! A gallon of blood splattered into the air every time you punched someone and it just looked so stupid that it had no edge . And then later on I got the cheats for the finishing movies and ' babalities ' and ' animalities ' or whatever such nonsense . But by that point they just took it too far and I never went back to it again . And the sequels never took my interest either . Not the best fighting game by far . Graphics C Sound C Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
REALLY simple platformer	This game was pretty much the simplest kind you could ever get . You played a small alien dude with a big round helmet on a strange planet . The object of each level was to jump onto a platform that was moving back and forth . Then onto another one , moving slightly faster . And so on and so on . Ten platforms , ten levels . That was it . That's not to say it wasn't kinda cute and it did have the slightest re-playability . I have no idea what ' Zub ' actually meant but in the instructions it stood for a variety of words . It's also the first word that my then 3-year-old cousin managed to read . If you come across an emulator for this very , very basic game then I still recommend you give it a quick go . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
More Zzzzz than Sssss	I was quite looking forward to this film as I enjoyed David R . Ellis ' previous film Cellular and the poster and idea for Snakes on a Plane is just pure high-concept trash . I could have been great , but I was surprisingly bored through-out . I do like popcorn movies , but the popcorn has to taste good and this bucket just has far too much venom in it for me . After Final Destination 2 and Cellular , David R . Ellis seems to be New Line Cinema's king of B-movies . Since the departure of Ronny Yu from this project , he seemed like the most logical choice . And while he does use some innovative ideas ( such as the pretty cool ' snake vision ' ) the film is too darkly shot and edited like a blur . I don't find death to be funny and expected a stronger ' man vs nature ' subtext to it . What we get is a man being bitten on the penis and stoners bitten while joining the Mile High Club . And the sudden , stinging attacks never seem to frighten . The first few kills are crass and exploitative and it spoils the mood for the rest of the film . I know I am being ridiculous criticising a no-brainer film such as this in such a way but even low-grade B-movies like Anaconda and it's sequel managed to be more scary and exciting than this . The characters are set-up in the typical horror film way and it's obvious which ones are going to die one by one . And while their deaths appear to violent , you never REALLY see anything shocking . A film with such an eccentric title really should have gone to crazy , far-fetched extremities and delivered loads of gore . But it never truly seems like it does . The majority of the film seems taped together from various different writers ideas and some scenes definitely feel tacked on after principal photography . Films set on panic-stricken planes are abundant ( Exec Dec , Passenger 57 , United 93 , Con Air , Die Hard 2 ) and scenes of crash landings and decompression are nothing new to audiences . The presence of Snakes doesn't make it much different . Plus , Trevor Rabin's score is total crap . Plain and simple . Uninspired , generic rubbish completely without theme , melody , excitement our even coherence in it's endless bombasticness . I had great hopes for him when he did such brilliant work ( actually co-composing ) on Con Air and Armageddon , but he's fast proving to be talentless . Samuel L . Jackson is brilliant as always and the under-rated Julianna Margulies is quite bloody gorgeous , more so than more popular Hollywood actresses . Lin Shaye ( a popular New Line actress , since her husband runs the studio ) has more to do than usual in the role of a heroic stewardess and those of you who like her more comedic roles will find this a welcome change . Though there's not much else I can recommend . After all the internet-nerd hype surrounding this film , it fails to live up to potential and expectations . Quite a disappointment !
Hadn't a clue	The best thing about the classic Trap Door TV show were those rare moments when you actually got to see what was down there and in all those tunnels and catacombs . This video has loads of exactly that . It began with Boni getting kidnapped by a monster and , as Berk , you had to go down the trap door to get him back . I though this bit was really cool as when you went through Berk fell down into the abyss for ages and ages . But soon after that I didn't have a clue where to go or what to do . The instructions never gave you any directions or objective so I was just lost . I remember a cool bit where Berk got wings and could fly but I was just too hard for the age group it was aimed at . Nice graphics though . Graphics Sound C Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Bland	Out of all the movies Grant and Bullock have ever done which is the most re-occurring genre ? Rom-com . How many rom-coms are out there ( especially at present ) ? Too many . What new material / angle does Two Weeks Notice offer ? None . There really is no point in this movie . It was only made because the public still go to see the same predictable rubbish over and over and therefor would more than likely make a profit . Every single rom-com cliché you can think of is in this movie : The High Flying Businessman , the lowly and accident-prone but clever pretty girl , the snaky but attractive woman introduced halfway-thru who may become a threat to the clever pretty girl , the ' world is a safe place ' backdrop , the ratty ex-wife , women who cry at the mere mention ( or even suggestion ) of the word ' love ' and a general sense of security in KNOWING how the movie will end . It's not even a slick looking film from a directing point of view . The photography is muddy , grey and unattractive , the production design is muted to the point of invisibility and the whole enterprise just feels so . . . pedestrian . The only people I could recommend this to are those who have never seen Hugh Grant play a dashing English gent or Sandra Bullock play an unlucky in love ( how ? ) but strong-minded heroine . Unfortunately that only adds up to about 4 people and those who have been in comas for the past decade . Even the poster is even more basic than usual . EVERY rom-com in existence has the man and woman only on a white background . How imaginative ! Only this time it just looks plainer . Much like the film .
Not a Foghorn Leghorn fan	I'll admit I love the look of Foghorn Leghorn but I hate his cartoons . Come on , they are ALL the same . It'll start out a normal day on the farm then that annoying bird will come along and say ' I'm a chicken hawk ' a hundred times . Foghorn will pretend to not be a chicken but get clobbered anyway . The impartial barnyard dog will get involved and they'll repeat the same unfunny joke over and over until the 7 minutes are up . Am I right or am I right ? This was the routine EVERY Foghorn Leghorn cartoon followed and I have never liked , even when I was a little kid . This cartoon is notable for being the first appearance of the Rooster but for no other reason .
Winging it simply doesn't make a good movie .	Steve Oedekirk's tepid Nothing to Lose is a lame comedy with Tim Robbins and Martin Lawrence as an odd-couple buddy pairing who team up to steal $600 , 000 . Robbin's comes home early to find his wife in bed with his boss and runs away to the desert , taking car-jacker Lawrence with him , to think things over . The dialogue is hackneyed and stilted , the plot is horribly contrived and Lawrence seems to have been given freedom to improvise , which is is clearly not good at . He resorts mainly to doing his xenophobic ' Oooh white folks ' thing while Robbins lumbers around like an idiot . None of the jokes work , the humor is far from clever and the set-ups are obvious . The bland photography and silly score are so incredibly 90s that the film , merely ten years old , looks heavily dated . There are better things that you could be doing with your time .
Poor	Substituting the wide open spaces of the old west for the dingy , dirty streets of London is not fun . Roy O'Bannon and Chon Wang do not look like they belong there ( and that's not meant to be part of the fun ) . The plot is the weakest , most uninspired and half-baked codswallop you can imagine , probably churned out in a few days , with a stereotyped villain so mass-produced and static that you'd be right in assuming the makers found him in a cereal box . Sometimes the writing is creative , such as the nods to Sherlock Holmes and Charlie Chaplin , but Britain is represented in the most cliched ' Hollywood ' way that it bogs everything else down . The escalating series of set-pieces may be imaginative but they sure do become very boring and repetitive . All they are really doing is filling the screen with movement , none of it being exciting or engaging ( the same problem Matrix : Reloaded had ) and when the movie is carried by these scenes alone , as the plot is not up to much , it almost completely fails . The only saving grace is Owen Wilson who is far too talented and likeable to be wasting his time on this . He and Jackie made a sweet team in the first but this is not a good film for them . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and Dolby 5 . 1 sound . It contains dozens of deleted scenes , 2 commentaries ( I find it hard to believe that there are 2 commentaries worth of things to be said about this ) and an ' Action Overload ' featurette .
Very , very weak	Back again in the brand new slicker animation form , the Mystery Inc gang head down to Mexico to visit Fred's e-mail pal but get caught up in the Chupacapra mystery as said beast begins terrorising the locals . It's not very good as the plot is practically discarded in favor of endless running around scenes and over-indulgence in set pieces . The recent Scooby Doo feature-length animations have had decent stories , nice atmospheres and a couple red-herrings . It's very post modern and has certainly help revamp the franchise . But Monster of Mexico feels very dated and 60's . The gang are back wearing their old clothes instead of the modern gear they wore in the first four animated movies . The ending is no surprise and completely unsatisfying . I don't like it . I wish for the next one to be a little more sophisticated . I mean children are intelligent and they deserve intelligent entertainment . Monster of Mexico may have been okay back in the 60's but in the modern day it's quite poor . The DVD has a great 1 . 33 : 1 picture and a rather good Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack . The extras are rubbish apart from the commentary by Shaggy and Scooby which is actually a really neat touch . I was excited at the Batman : Mystery of the Batwoman trailer featured here but it's 20 seconds long and shows you nothing . What's the point ?
Boring and predictable	Mickey cartoons all follow the same formula . Whatever he's doing will soon fall into chaos as soon as Donald shows up or whatever he's in charge of inexplicable rebels . In this cartoon , nothing is different . He's hosting an amateur music show on the radio and Donald forgets the lyrics to Twinkle Twinkle Little Star . He's not happy about being booed and won't give up even after being kicked off . Clara Cow ( or whoever ) and Goofy turn up with some failed acts ( both interrupted by Donald ) that go haywire in the most predictable of fashions . Not that funny and not that interesting . So much so that I did the hoovering while watching it .
And on that farm he had a . . .	Man , I hate that song . And this cartoon fares little better . Honestly , of all the Donald Duck shorts that I've seen and reviewed , this is the worst . Nothing really happens in it . Donald is a farmer who strolls through his yard one morning , greeting all his animals . His cow Clementine is sitting in a tree eating the leaves . Reasons unknown . Donald proceeds to milk her but is bothered by a troublesome fly . And erm . . . that's it . There is no inventive mayhem or moments of brilliant animation . It's all very unimpressive and definitely one of the blandest cartoons starring any character . Donald deserves better than this bore .
Horrible , inappropriate soap opera on par with Pearl Harbor	I'm not going to go off in a rant about how it is insensitive to make a World Trade Center movie a mere 5 years after the atrocity but I will say that it's largely pointless . The images and stories have been covered on TV so many times from so many angles and people that there's really nothing left to learn . When Oliver Stone announced this movie I assume that many of his fans predicted the conspiracy theories and finger pointing he is famous for as well as the highly stylistic and surrealist editing . Well . . . NONE of that is present here . All we get is pedestrian direction that might as well for a TV movie and a very lame , mawkish soap opera plot that is really dragged-out far too damn long . Nic Cage and Michael Peña play real life ' heroes ' who were buried under the WTC rubble for a few days and managed to stay alive by shouting at each other . Each of them have flashbacks to their sweethearts sitting at home pouting and whimpering as their family pat them on the back saying " It's okay " . Wow , you could cut that tension with a chainsaw , it's electric ( the tension , not the chainsaw ) ! The only impressive thing that WTC really boasts is a brilliant sound design , asides from that there's not much reason to watch the film . Nicolas Cage is hardly given much to do apart from lie on his back , Maggie Gyllenhaal as ' the wife ' is given almost nothing to do apart from the quivering lip thing and Maria Bello ( didn't she used to have BROWN eyes ? ) is alarmingly frozen-faced as ' the other wife ' . Stone's usually flamboyant and trip-like cinematography has been replaced with framing so bland you'd be forgiven for thinking you're looking at a series of still photographs . I know anyone wishing to defend this film can easily say that sort of film-making technique is not suitable for a story like this . If so , then why the hell would Oliver Stone , of all people choose to make it ? A completely pointless film that pussyfoots around tougher issues and makes a triumph out of a loss . And don't give me any of that ' triumph of the human spirit ' crap either . There was no reason for this film to be made and everyone involved could have something more worthy with a little extra imagination or balls .
Not funny	In this cartoon Donald goes to the beach for some fun in the sun . He takes a giant inflatable horse ( called Seabiscuit ) with him to play with in the water . Everything seems fine until Donald decides to torment Pluto for some reason by blowing water and air into his face , or something . The cartoon lingers on this bit of unfunnyness for a few minutes before it goes to the typical ' picnic being stolen by ants ' routine . Good God , man . How many times have I seen that in a cartoon ? Donald and Pluto try to take them on but lose to their own arrogance and stupidity . No , this cartoon is not really that funny at all and Donald surely deserves better than this . I don't rate Beach Picnic very highly I'm afraid .
What's the point ?	I came out of this film completely unaffected . Am I really supposed to care about what allegedly happened 2000 years ago ? There is NOTHING to TPOTC . A mere 2 hour exhibition of sadomasochism / sexual perversion . It just goes on and on and on . Mel Gibson creates a few tangents with flashbacks and a pointless Judas Iscariot story though but they're not enough to distract from the bore of Jesus ' torture . And it's not even that bad in terms of gore . I've seen worse , a LOT worse . But as 90 % of this film is in slo-mo the torture and punishment is sensationalized rather than realistic and harrowing . I kept yawning , looking at my watch to see how long was left . I'm sorry to say that I just did not care for this film , I feel completely indifferent . From a technical point of view it's well made , but it's boring and pointless . I've never been able to understand the logic of ' Jesus ( who isn't even called Jesus in this , not even phonetically . Where did the name Jesus come from ? ) died for our sins ' . And there's no explanation here . He died ( if he really existed ) BECAUSE of our ignorance and stupidity if anything . TPOTC is no more than an overblown , overrated film about the genesis of an overblown , overrated , God-fearing religion . I'll pass .
Not very good at all	I somehow remember this film being way better than it is . It certainly does take a special sense of humor to watch but nothing interesting happens for so long and Carpenter's direction is strangely unspectacular . The story concerns big-headed trucker Jack Burton and an adventure he has in the underworld of San Francisco . Sounds a little weird ? It gets weirder . His friend's fiancée is kidnapped by 3 Chinese gods to become a bride for a 2000-year-old magician , monsters show up , the Magician has an army and many hostages for some reason and Jack sets them free . The fight scenes are badly executed and lack any vivid depth . Sound effects are poorly synced and are too loud . Check out the pathetic ambient surround effects during Jack's first dialogue with Gracie Law . The SFX are decent enough , especially for 1986 , but can't save it . On the plus side you can get enjoyment from the weird side if this film . And from this perspective you can almost get what carpenter was aiming for . Kind if like David Lynch with lost highway . There is so much opportunity for a great movie in here but unfortunately Carpenter realises little of large potential . Even at 99 minutes the story is slowed by too much explanation and set-up . We wait so long for something to happen and when it does it's all rather tame . I find it no big surprise that this film flopped . There was , and perhaps still is , no audience for it . Too many different tones and genre are mixed together , creating confusion rather than inspiration or enjoyment . I'm shocked that Carpenter made something as amateur and poor as this . This film is DOA , no doubt .
Theatrical cut is miserable as hell , see the extended version .	In regards to the version that was released in cinemas . . . miss it . That's for damn sure . This was the first film that David Fincher directed and it has that dark , smelly and grimy look that he is only capable of . After the highly exciting Aliens there is ZERO entertainment here and only one Alien . Very fake looking and largely unseen for most of the movie . Apparently the Alien Queen laid one last face hugger egg on the Marine ship ( didn't she already detach herself from her birth tunnel thingy ) . The egg hatches and lays another Alien egg in Ripley , which just happens to be a queen . For a reason , which is unclear to us , the face hugger sprays acid on the ship , which catches fire and breaks off the cryo-tube section . This sends Ripley , Newt , Hicks and Bishop crashing down onto a lice-infected prison planet called Furiona 161 . Just for the hell of it ( it seems ) Newt , Hicks and Bishop are killed off because the film is deliberately miserable as it possibly can be . Weaver is the only female character in it and is very much indistinctive among the rest of the indistinctive cast as she is bald-headed ( because of the Lice problem ) with a bunch of bald-headed guys who all appear to be English and ugly . There is another face hugger ( so the Queen laid 2 eggs before it died ? ) that the prisoners seem to miss as they rescue Ripley . It impregnates a dog and a new Alien is born in the form of a canine , giving us the impression that the beast mimics the form of the creature that became its host . We are supposed to observe this as it is never cleared up in dialogue . There are numerous scenes in which Ripley ( or bald-headed prisoners ? I can't tell ) run down damp corridors ( or perhaps the same one over and over ) being chased by the Alien . But for budget reasons we don't actually SEE the Alien , just its point of vision . Characters are killed with no care , passion or meaning to their deaths and how the hell anyone believed that an audience of any kind would enjoy this film is beyond my great understanding . It is so bad that Fincher didn't get work for 3 years after this until he was called upon to direct Se7en . The only reason he got to do that is because it is a depressing and ugly film , much like this . The extended version featured on the Special Edition DVD is a far superior version of the film , though not a director's cut or without faults , it's the best version of the film you're likely to see . Characters are fleshed out , sense-making scenes are restored and the creature is born out of a dead ox instead of a dog . It doesn't sound like much but it almost changes it into a completely new and more satisfying film . Either or depending on the version you watch . overall .
A distinct lack of laughs .	In this cartoon the Three Bears sit at the dinner table in their ramshackle hut and think of a way to temp some unwitting fool into the cauldron . That unwitting fool ends up being Bugs Bunny . But , as usual , he's to clever to fall for any tricks . Too bad the outsmarting isn't really so funny or clever . It definitely wasn't the funniest Bugs I've ever seen . I was kind of bored with it very quickly as the start is also kind of slow and humor is not up to scratch . Plus the animation of the Three Bears looks kind of rough and ragged and really distracts your attention . Don't bother going out your way to catch this ' un .
A lion's fist in an iron glove	Confused ? Not as much as you will be while watching this movie . And it's not even confusing in a good way like Lost Highway or Mulholland Drive ( also starring the lurvly Naomi Watts ) . The Ring was a passable thriller that had about as much logic as my review title . None ! Still , Gore Verbinski took as much advantage as he could out of that logic-free world where you can't rely on the laws of nature and physics to protect you and delivered a few iconic images and some good scares . The Ring 2 exploits and manipulates that world and gives us loads of utterly senseless plot developments that barely connect . You won't be as scared as you will be annoyed at the increasing stupidness of the film and it's sheer reluctance to make sense . Characters are not as important as confusion . Like David Lynch himself once said ' An audience would rather be confused than bored ' . I mean what purpose did the character of Max serve ? None ! He might as well have not been in the film at all . Also , the ' circle ' imagery hardly makes an appearance in the film at all and we are left with not too subtle ' crescent-moon ' images . However unsubtle the thin substance of The Ring 2 it will go completely unnoticed among the hundreds of 13-year-olds in the audience . Seriously , this is the kind of film that you go see early in the morning if you want quiet . Still , no matter how disappointed I was with this film , it's still miles ahead of the appalling Grudge ( Japanese AND American ) . It's also worth noting that this has nothing to do with the Japanese sequel or Kôji Suzuki's literal sequel .
Rather bland and mediocre	It was hardly revolutionary , I mean its only saving grace was its ensemble cast . I think Famke Jansen is totally hot and Clea Duvall especially , she's just totally gorgeous . Not enough gore either . In , fact there's not much else to The Faculty . The cheap CGI effects were pretty crap and the post-Scream script by over-celebrated writer Kevin Williamson is too self-aware and modern to be effective . In a few years , this kind of thing is going to seem dated . I guess it was entertaining in a silly kind of way which it was supposed to be but it could have been a LOT better . Not the kind of film I would watch again .
Failed Potential	With the exception of the opening 10 minutes , 28 Days Later fails completely . The scenes of the Jim ( Cillian Murphy ) walking around an abandoned , completely deserted London are creepy and un-nerving . The scenes that hint at mystery and unknown danger are far more intriguing than the rest of the movie . As soon as Jim hooks up with other survivors the scares are lost . Danny Boyle stupidly telegraphs every jump to the point of disqualification . When the survivors leave London and are ' rescued ' by a bunch of thuggish army louts it degenerates into extremely cruddy sub-straight-to-video nonsense . I've never seen a film lose its way so badly as this . What could have been really exciting and scary ends up being too cheap and confused . There are hardly any ' zombies ' in this movie . Any action or thrills are over within seconds and the complete lack of logical thinking ( even within the morally bankrupt army ) becomes annoying . It did appreciate the raw-looking photography , it gave the movie a realistic edge but it's soon ruined as the plot meanders and doesn't know what to do . Cillian Murphy was quite good as the hero but the woman playing Selena was too brutish and hostile to be sympathetic . I did like Brendan Gleeson's character but he wasn't in it long enough . Mainly , 28 Days Later suffers badly from minimal plotting , awkward characters , a distinct lack of scares and a corny ending that's out of sync with everything that preceded it . Danny Boyle should NOT attempt horror again . The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . Extras include a commentary , documentary and deleted scenes . The cut scenes ( and alternate ending ) are worthless and not interesting . For a superior and more exciting zombie movie wait for the new Dawn of the Dead to hit DVD . In the meantime , rent this one .
Simple-minded , female chauvinist , pot-boiling crap .	What the hell has happened to Wes Craven ? The man who went straight for the raw nerve with Last House on the Left and The Hills have Eyes has seriously gone downhill in the rotten , PC-driven , PG-13 driven Hollywood of today . Studios are afraid to make R-rated movies these days . Not that Red Eye really needs it . But an injection of breathtaking suspense would have really helped this movie along and help us forget the silliness of the plot . If his last movie Cursed wasn't bad enough he continues a downward spiral with this very childish quickie with about as much intelligence as a typical episode of The A-Team ( no offence to that great show ) . The plot is thin excuse for the preposterous events in the film to happen and the political sub-plot is so vague and transparent it almost isn't even there . See if you can swallow this . Some hit-man ( Cillian Murphy ) , part of a larger group , wants to convince a hotel manager ( Rachel McAdams ) to have a VIP move to another suite so he can fire a rocket at him from the ocean that the suite faces . He does this by cornering her on a late night flight ( the ' Red Eye ' ) with the threat of one of his henchmen parked outside her unaware dad's ( the brilliant Brian Cox ) house waiting to kill him if she does not comply . It's very pointlessly contrived . Why do they not just aim at the VIP from a different position and take him out from his original room rather than stalking and planning to scare a hotel manager for 8 weeks ? Sixty minutes of this eighty-five minute film is spent on so-called ' mind games ' with McAdams and Murphy trying to outwit each other on the plane . It's not thrilling and Craven fails to add any sense of hard edge or unbearable tension to it . Marco Beltrami's intrusive score never lets any scene speak for itself . McAdams and Murphy give half-hearted performances , totally aware that they are starring in a generic , mundane film . Brian Cox is completely and utterly wasted in a thankless role that requires him to do no more than sit around in a living room speaking single-word lines of dialogue . I can only assume he had a credit card bill to pay off that starring in this bore would settle . The subtext of the oppressed McAdams fighting back against Male tormentors is obvious and actually quite labored . How many more movies must we sit through where females face great ( male-driven ) opposition and pull through by relying on sheer women-only courage . In the last twenty-minutes McAdams does nothing but beat-down and mutilate Murphy . Fair enough he head-butted her and choked her a bit , but this part is played down and forgotten quickly while Craven makes a point out of Murphy's pain and suffering . I understand that women are easy to feel sorry for in movies ( a bit sexist and narrow-minded if you ask me-but hey . . . I hate PC ) but I would like to see a film where a man fights back at a woman who has made his life hell . It does happen in real life you know . But men are worthless according to films like this . And I'm not being homophobic but am I registering some subliminal gay relationship at the end ? Red Eye pretty much fails at everything it sets out to do simply by having a weak script and tepid direction . The teeny-bopper crowd , that this film was undeniably made for , may get a kick out of it but us older and wiser viewers who have been around long enough to appreciate Craven's stronger work will be seriously disappointed . It's worth pretty much none of your attention or hard-earned cash , but at least it's better than Cursed .
Tacky , uneventful western	For a Western movie this was very boring and had very little going on . There is no real plot and only a couple of muddled and drama-free sub-plots . The movie is about some hit-man in a cell who is awaiting hanging for the killing of some cattleboys . The sheriff wants a peaceful hanging ( ! ) without having to prove that he's as good a Sheriff as his father was . And a couple of other minor characters serve no purpose other than to complicate matters for petty reasons . There are a few silly fight scenes that remind of the A-Team with the wooden furniture falling apart very easily . And , as always , there are embarrassingly fake fights in which there is no penetration seen or any shown . Were there any R-rated movies in the 50's ? But the most annoying thing about this movie is the songs but the ' singing narrator ' who only ever uses the same tune but uses marginally different words each time . Ugh ! If this is on TV on a Sunday afternoon ? miss it . Go out for a walk , even if it's raining .
Overwrought teen soap	I did not enjoy this movie very much . The only good part about it is that the director did not portray Britain as a miserable dump and shot the film in rather attractive widescreen . But the story is a mess . Very little of this film makes sense and it is very badly written . And boring . The direction is borderline lifeless and Nick Hamm uses all of the " Channel 4 / Thinks he's hip / Wants to show off " clichés that a British director can use . That puts me off . There is no original dialogue at all . There is some stuff referring to student personalities in a snobby private school but it's nothing that you haven't heard in Clueless or noticed in real life . That's about as rich ( ? ) as the dialogue gets . I should suggest that Thora Birch never attempt an English accent again . Several times thru out the film is could hear her real American voice . It was quite awful . Her real voice is nice enough already . The other actors didn't do much for me either , especially the guy who played Geoff . The actor playing Martin was cool tho . Pity he weren't in it much . The ending was questionable . The attempts at trying make Thora Birch look evil and manipulative at the end were laughable . Do they really expect us to accept that ?
The worst of 80's cop movie clichés , but it's still better than Bad Boys II	The plot in this movie is absolutely nothing spectacular and is VERY basic . There are also plot holes all over the place . The constant arguing between Smith and Laurence also gets on the nerves and spoils the slight chemistry that they have . But Michael Bay's direction puts a glossy shine on an otherwise cruddy movie . But he made the movie in 1 . 85 : 1 . Why ? The plot , for what it's worth , concerns a dealer ( Tchecky Kayro in a virtually nameless role ) who s an idiot member of his gang . Beautiful Julie Mott ( Tea Leoni ) witnesses the slaying and is marked for . She calls the cops but for a dumb reason will only talk to Mike Lowrey ( Will Smith ) . Marcus Burnett ( Martin Lawrence ) is the only person there who can take the call and assumes the role of Mike in order to take Julie into ' in-home ' protective custody . Why he doesn't just reveal to her right away that he told a little white lie only to get her out of harms way ? I dunno . Perhaps it is because it's the only plot element that the legion of writers could abuse to inject the slightest amount of comedy and drag out an 85-minute to 2 hours . It irritates beyond comprehension and the film should really have been dumped in the direct to video bucket instead of having a cinema release . But as long as the film masquerades as a proper Hollywood movie everything will be okay . A Hollywood movie it certainly is . It took 10 years for Bad Boys to be made and many changes to the script took place in that time . It was originally set in New York and was to star John Lovitz and Dana Carvey as the leads . It was shopped around Hollywood , chewed-up and spat out by many studios , until Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckhiemer picked it up and thought that turning it into a shiny and bright action adventure could redeem it . The budget wasn't too high and Bay did as much as he could considering the tiny amount of money he had ( even spending part of his own salary ) and did an impressive job too . The action scenes certainly make up for the lulls in the plot . Too bad there is not enough of them . The van chase , shootout in the lobby and final battle are way cool and Mark Mancina's score is incredible . Too bad the score isn't available on CD but there is 5 . 1 isolated score on the DVD . Everyone should see Bad Boys at least once as there will be something for everyone but do not expect a great or original plot . There isn't one .
Short lifespan	The novelty of this game wears off very quickly . At first it was fun to play as several of the Simpsons characters but when they started repeating their dialogue for the 50th time it became mighty tedious and tiresome . The gameplay is very simple . If GTA : Vice City is the Lego Technic of road rage games then Simpsons : Road Rage is , without a doubt the Lego Duplo . It is SOOO aimed at kids . No one over the age of 13 will be particularly impressed with this . It's just far to ' safe ' . The Simpsons TV show is full of satirical humor and intelligence but this game is just a cheap spin-off aimed at a much younger audience .
I guess I'll die another day	What a big step-down QoS is . If you are expecting the Godfather Part II or a film equal to The Dark Knight you are in for a huge disappointment . Despite being the highest budgeted Bond film ever ( just where all the money went is beyond me ) , QoS is half-hearted and extremely simple . Of all the Bond films in history I've never seen one as straight-forward as this . As a direct sequel to Casino Royale the film drops pretty much ALL plot and focuses on action . What little story there is , almost the same story from A View to a Kill ( which was actually a carbon copy of Goldfinger ) , is nothing more than a weak excuse to string together a bunch of action scenes that feel more like alternate Jason Bourne fights rather than a Bond film . There's no mystery , no puzzle-solving and nothing resembling dangerous espionage . The 105-minute running time cripples QoS . Don't get me wrong , I hate films that are padded with dead weight , but QoS just feels too light and too hurried . Daniel Craig handles the action well , but is thoroughly un-engaging when it comes to the emotional scenes . I don't like his interpretation of Bond and I am sick to death of all these ' tragic action heroes ' that are so damn common these days . I'm also sick of guns as an extension of manhood , which QoS has a lot of . The British press made a big hoo-hah over Gemma Arterton being cast as a Bond Girl ( a term that I really don't like ) , but I swear she's in it for about five minutes and has about ten lines of dialogue before she meets a strange end in an obscure Goldfinger reference . On the plus side , David Arnold delivers his best Bond score to date , it's just a shame it didn't have a better movie to provide the images to his sounds . Bond should call it a day . He's been in the movies for close to 50 years and , in my opinion , he's had too many restarts , too many women and too many missions . Bond is a dinosaur and completely out of place in the modern world . Despite attempts at making him relevant and contemporary , I feel that his time is up and that he should step aside for a new hero . Just not a ' tragic ' one .
Nothing special	A day in the life of nobodies . Sound like a good movie ? It probably sounded like a good experiment to Richard Linklater who made this for about $20 , 000 . It's a nice film to start out with but it's really of no use or interest outside of college film students . There's not much to Slacker other than a bunch of meandering dialogue scenes and long steadicam shots ( in a 100 minute movie there are only 163 cuts ) . We follow one character who talks nonsense onto another character who talks nonsense onto another character yadda yadda yadda . Each scene is shot the same way and had little to make it stand out . None of the characters last more than 5 minutes and their stories just seem like an outlet for Linklater to vent some of his cynicism or frustration with society . Much like the characters it superficially studies , Slacker wanders nowhere , achieves nothing and wastes time . It's NOT a good way to spend a Saturday night . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 as originally shot with Dolby 2 . 0 surround . It contains a zillion extras over 2 discs that I plain and simple will NEVER watch because the film bored me to death . I give it a purely because it's different from the usual mass-produced crap we get from the big studios .
It's 46 minutes long !	Manga craftily fail to mention this on the cover and I was very let down when the movie faded out to the end titles merely 40 minutes into the film . I liked where it was going and it could have gone further but it just ended ! What's the point in a 46 minute long movie ? What I don't understand is if Saya in the movie is a vampire then how can she go out in the daylight ? Is she like Blade in some way ? I didn't get this at all . The CG animation looked wonderful and the 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture on the DVD makes it even better . It also has a decent Dolby 5 . 1 track ( the language is in both English AND Japanese-not either ) . But there is no point in buying this . Rent it . Blood : The Last Vampire is cool , but not worth buying .
Rather flat and uneventful	Christmas with the Kranks did not fill me with holiday spirit . This movie rudely tries to shove yuletide cheer down our throats and the end result is a mild comedy with only a few laughs ( most attempts at jokes just die ) . Luther Krank ( Tim Allen in yet another Xmas movie ) decides he and his wife ( a rapidly aging Jamie-Lee Curtis ) can skip all this Crimbo nonsense to go on a Caribbean Cruise . Easier said than done when their Xmas fascist neighbors ( led by Dan Ackroyd ) gang up on them and force the Kranks to conform to brainless consumerism . Man if that ain't the most important Xmas message ever committed to film then I just don't know what is . It's hard to believe Chris Columbus ( a veteran at Xmas movies ) produced a such a laugh-free ' comedy ' . Only a couple of the gags work , which is half the reason I'm giving this 3 stars , but the cast just don't have any comic timing . The other reason I'm giving this a 3 instead of 2 ? Well , we're kind of shafted when it comes to Xmas movies this year . First there was the wretched Ben Affleck disaster Surviving Christmas and then the slightly awkward Polar Express . Christmas with the Kranks is only worthwhile to kill a few hours while your husband / wife / whatever does the Xmas shopping . Destined to certainly NOT become a holiday tradition .
Recycled clichés in a somewhat entertaining order	High Tension offers nothing new to the slasher movie genre . It's nothing more than a succession of set-pieces manipulated to provoke maximum dread from the audience . Everything you've seen before , but the relentless gore , superb photography and eerie , minimalist atmosphere make it a decent time-waster and probably one to share with all your pals . Marie and Alex are 2 college girls vacationing at Alex's parents house in the country . Marie is given her own room and seems comfortable sleeping on her lonesome despite feeling a little unnerved by the isolation of the farmhouse . Not long after nightfall a stranger in grubby cover-alls pulls up in his rust-bucket van / tank and sets about murdering Alex's dad , mum and brother . He kidnap's Alex and plans to rape , torture and kill her but Marie is hot on his heels . Can she rescue her in time . For most of the running time this film works purely on eager energy but in the last act , when the director has wrung out everything he can from the cliché-ridden script he chucks in a stupid , ridiculous plot twist that completely contradicts everything established in the opening act . Yes , there are clues and hints that limply tie it together but it still doesn't add up to sense . I saw Wolf Creek recently and found it rather dull . Upon reading a lot of reviews of it I was made aware of many people comparing it to High Tension , which is what made me check it out in the first place . Yes , the films are very similar but High Tension is surely the best of the 2 , no matter how dumb it gets at the end .
A rather bland platformer	I first got Chakan when I was 13 and for some reason I liked it . It's not really that good and is nowhere near as cool as the underground comic-book it's based on . As Chakan you fight through many different planes ( levels ) and baddies such as Dragonfly Kings and evil slugs while using magic potions you come across to give you power-ups . The levels are uninteresting , baddies boring and the fighting is quite simple and lacks satisfaction . Overall it's quite a disappointing game considering how much potential the concept has . If you do like Chakan however , I suggest you track down the comics . THOSE are cool . Graphics Sound Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Too short	And not much in the way of playability . I liked the feature of taking pictures and selling them the Daily Bugle but there's not much else going on . There are only 6 levels and some of them , like the power station , are REALLY short . I liked this game when I was younger but I was used to more simpler games then . But it doesn't really even push the limited ( then wonderful ) capabilities of the Genesis . The graphics are very basic and Spiderman doesn't get much of a workout other than some unspectacular swinging around . There's also a very pointless ' go home for a while ' feature that has no use whatsoever . Don't get me wrong , it's miles better than that awful Spiderman / X-Men game but still not too Amazing . Pick it up cheap , finish it then trade it . Hint : You MUST play the game on Nightmare mode to finish it otherwise you'll only get a couple of levels .
Mediocre	I really don't know what to make of ID4 . If you take away the SFX and the patriotic , flag-waving in this film you are left with a very cheap pile of melodramatic sludge . For a first viewing you cannot see this but the 2nd and 3rd time you begin to notice the seriously bad dialogue . It won an Academy Award for Best Visual Effects but some of them are REALLY bad . The flames that flow thru the tunnel at the end of the first destruction scene are SO unrealistic . They are way too red . Escape from LA was panned for having crap FX but this is worse . I feel that if ID4 maintained a dark and ominous tone , much like the shadows cast by the spacecraft , it would have been a much better film . But instead the scriptwriters decided to go for the cheap and easy way of bad jokes and clichéd ' human drama ' story lines . The ending is exciting to watch and the final scenes inside the mothership are VERY eye-pleasing . I wish we could see more of this . There were plans for a sequel in early 1997 to be released on January 1st 2000 but Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin left 20th Century Fox , so it was never made .
Too hurried	I've never seen any Musketeer movies , not even the Kiefer Sutherland one , but I can tell this one ain't the best . It's very rushed and the script is as flat as a blown-out tire . I mean it's written by the guy who created the Police Academy franchise . Surely he should be blacklisted in Hollywood by now . Peter Hyams once again becomes his own cinematographer and does a kinda okay job . None of his trademark flair or wonderful use of widescreen is in this film and nothing really comes across as pretty or atmospheric . And this whole deal with the film apparently having an Eastern influence is total nonsense . There is like 2 fight scenes and neither of them are that spectacular and come across as a bit contrived . Just because an Asian guy did the choreography it doesn't mean that this film has to look like The Matrix . The actors do what they can with the poor story and limp dialogue but still come across as being bored , especially Stepehen Rea . Tim Roth looks and acts like a cross between Chuck Norris and Charles Dance and his character is a bit of a cliché . ' The Man in Black ' . . . puh-lease . And if you're kinda wondering who that is playing Mena Suvari's evil uncle then you might recognise him as Arthur Fowler from long over-running BBC1 misery and despair soap Eastenders . The Musketeer also seems to be badly edited around the PG-rating . Obviously this is what the studio wanted to aim for but it just seem right given the tone of the film and any scene in which someone dies looks like a badly staged pantomime . Even Dogtanian and the Three Muskahounds was more grown-up than this . And boy are those opening credits ugly ! See it only for free on a day you've got nothing better to do .
Don't be fooled	This film has action for the guys , romance for the ladies and a lavish ( ? ) period setting for the older generation . This is the only reason many people went to see it . Cameron knew he could lure everyone into the cinema if he gave them all a little bit of what they wanted . This caused more people to review it and feel obliged to give it good word of mouth . Even if it was a load of garbage . The characters are paper-thin if not thinner . The only reason the ladies cried at the end is because they didn't want LEONARDO DICAPRIO to die . Not Jack Dawson . I must have heard about 300 ladies coming out of the cinema crying " OH MY LEO " . If they had David SCHWIMMER play jack Dawson . . .
Very Weird and strange	This film seems to be a bizarre hybrid of David Lynch at his most weirdest and Jim Jarmush on an acid trip . There is no linear progression or any character development . Or any real characters when I think about it . Or story . Just a very strange mixture of disgusting visuals and gay imagery . For the first half of the movie we linger on a bunch of hobos in a demolished wasteland . We can't really tell if they are just living in an old factory or if the world has been destroyed by nuclear apocalypse . These scenes are tinted ( or flooded ) by either red , green or blue . The guys just walk around and stuff . Nothing special . I don't know why I didn't walk out of this movie . Obviously some part of it held my attention . I don't know what though . What's even stranger is that I WOULD recommend this film to others . If you like movies it's a good idea to see a few bizarre ones . If you don't like it that's fine . But I bet you can't fully explain WHY you don't like it . I can't explain why I even sat thru it . It's good to see . Even though it doesn't have the normal things associated with movies . IE script , producer and well ? I dunno . Not much dialogue either .
Disappointing sequel	The Transporter franchise suffers from some serious engine failure in this slickly produced sequel and only just makes it over the finishing line . The original had a thin premise and an anorexic plot but delivered brilliantly choreographed fight scenes and down-played gun violence . For number 2 the action is relocated from the French Riviera to Miami , a city often featured in bad sequel movies ( 2 Fast 2 Furious , Bad Boys II , Police Academy 5 ) . Frank Martin ( a skin-headed , forever grimacing Jason Statham ) no longer takes dodgy package from A to B , instead he's temping as a chauffeur for a wealthy family . But when the kid is snatched by stereotyped Columbian villain he springs back into action , kicking ass in his own special way . It turns out that the kid has been injected with a deadly virus . And everyone he breathes on will catch it . And so on and so on . An interesting plot device that soon crumbles into a massive pile of plot holes . The action doesn't have the same edge as it did before . I can appreciate far-fetched action films as long as they stay within relative distance of reality . Transporter 2 goes way beyond reality in well into stupidity , turning Frank Martin from delivery man into indestructible super-hero . After a while you'll realize this man can do anything and will always walk out of the worst scenario alive . It totally kills the excitement . And as if the plot wasn't flimsy enough , the narrative just completely shatters and will leave you disorientated and lost among the brawling and battling . Characters come and go with no explanation , sub-plots are abandoned and the film is totally void of a denouement or climax . There's no satisfaction in the silly story being wrapped up . All Transporter 2 really does is showcase a bunch of totally far-fetched fight scenes , while failing at everything else that could have made the film a contender . Even the relentlessly silly Danny the Dog did better than this . Even though it's made by a European director and producer and funded with European money , something that gave the first such a unique feel , this feels an awful lot like a Hollywood trash flick . It's a shame the series had to stumble so soon . Since the end hints a third , one can only hope that Leterrier and Besson get their act together . What began as a series made in the style of Taxi , Ronin and Kiss of the Dragon has ended up tumbling into world where movies like Stealth and SWAT live . And that ain't good . Oh , and I'm tired of hearing about the movie's so-called homo-eroticism . Like I just said , this film is made by Europeans who are not as homophobic as the rest of the world and see nothing wrong with a man visiting another man for a holiday . Frank Martin is not gay .
Nothing special	Here's my problem . . . I like Foghorn Leghorn but I hate the characters he is constantly lumbered to work with . They are all crap . Give us a Foghorn Leghorn and Bugs / Daffy team-up . All these chicken hawk stories down on Old MacDonald's farm are boring . In this one old Miss Prissy is a hen who never lays an egg until Foghorn tries to make her feel better by nicking someone else's and puts it in her nest . Well the egg hatches and a chick is born . A rooster chick who is determined to take Foghorn's place . Foghorn tries to off the little chick in various ways , all backfiring of course , before being kicked off the farm by Old MacDonald . Foghorn is funny , the rest isn't .
Unessential potboiler	And not too demanding but not exactly a no-brainer . It's the perfect movie to relax to . Sandra Bullock is charming enough as a tough , tom-boy FBI agent and the resulting hijinks as she tries to track down a Miss America killer is amusing fare indeed . The direction , although pedestrian , has enough flare and the script has enough interesting moments to make the by-the-numbers film-making disappear . The characters are interesting too . Benjamin Bratt was my fave but the others , including some of the Pageant contestants strangely enough , were entertaining although not engaging . The film does have flaws ( Sandra Bullock's laugh and some over-sugary moments ) but for easy on the brain entertainment that neither confirms nor contradicts Sandra Bullock's position as a Superstar .
Has dated quite badly	Originally a hit when released in the arcades in the 80's Spy vs Spy also enjoyed success on just about every home console . I myself had it on the Commodore 64 along with the sequel ' Island Adventure ' and the third one called ' Arctic Antics ' , which were better . The trouble with the original Spy vs Spy is that the gameplay , while briefly fun , was too limited and the rooms of the big building you ran about in looked the same . It was easy to get lost and there was nothing particularly visually interesting about the game . But for Spy vs Spy or MAD Magazine completest this game is a must . I've yet to play the new Spy vs Spy game ( it only came out on PS2 and XBOX-I have a Gamecube ) but it will probably be better than this . If you have a vintage console at home then get Spy vs Spy II or III .
Polly wanna cracker	Can someone explain to my why Polly is a common name for a parrot ? And why do they have a fascination for crackers ? I've never seen a real life parrot each a cracker . In this cartoon a moving van goes over a nasty bump and a birdcage falls out . The newly freed parrot inside immediately flies into Mickey's house where Mickey mistakes his noisy presence as an invasion by escaped convict Machine-gun Charlie ( or something ) . This is the set-up for the usual hijinks seen in Disney cartoons in which everything Mickey , Donald or Goofy owns is trashed because of their own clumsiness . Something different it ain't .
Where have I seen this before ?	If Origin : Spirits of the past seems familiar to you then you are not alone . Even the most indiscriminate anime fan can tell that this is basically a watered-down copy of Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind . There are so many similarities that I'm surprised no lawsuits were involved . Set in a future where plant life has taken control of a desecrated world the survivors try to live a delicate existence between the powerful forest and the fascist military until one day a mysterious girl arrives out of the past with lots of questions and long , drawn-out answers . Meh , it's all just so generic and dull full of all the usual anime nonsense . I never really understood why the hero , Agito , falls in love with her so easily . There's not much going on between them . And who was that calling her on that weird phone thingy near the start ? It's never explained . This story has been done bigger and better 25 years ago and there's not any particular reason why anyone should rush out and see Origin . Sorry .
Too hard for me	Back in the day of the Commodore 64 , if you were one of the coolest people who had one , you'd remember that there were thousands and thousands of games out there . I had zillions of them . But the queerest of them was a side-scrolling space-shooter called Zybex . It kinda played like Space Harrier , only from a different perspective . You played a dude in a spacesuit who flew over planet surfaces shooting generic enemies and collecting generic power-ups . Aside from it's odd graphics and downright bizarreness , the game was nothing special and was just too hard for a kid my age . My mother loved it though and would often go mental , chucking the joystick across the room , when it became too frustratingly difficult , in the same way R-Type was . Man , I can't believe I'm writing a review for Zybex .
Hit and miss .	After scoring a huge hit with ID4 everyone expected Roland Emmerich to really impress us with this movie . Godzilla had a lot to live up to . It disappointed on every level imaginable . The only way to enjoy this is as purely brain-dead nonsense . Think about it and you'll realize how bad it is . So seriously , switch your brain off . The problems mainly lie with the fact that Godzilla himself is very unremarkable . He's just a giant lizard . Hardly threatening . And like Matthew Broderick's character says , he's not evil-he just wants food . It's hard to consider him a baddie when all he does is accidentally trash New York . Plus he moves and looks too much like the Jurassic Park T-Rex to be particularly impressive . None of the characters are interesting either . Which makes the ' character building ' scenes completely useless . That time could have been put to much better use in this 140 minute long film . Only Jean Reno comes away with his dignity intact ( can you believe he turned down playing Agent Smith to be in this ? ) . Though it is cool to see Harry Shearer and Hank Azaria ( Principal Skinner / Kent Brockman and Moe / Apu ) in a movie together but they don't get much screen time . In comparison to ID4 , Emmerich's direction kind of falls flat . Remember the public reactions as huge spaceships descended upon New York and LA and how everyone kind of watched in hypnotical awe as panic arose around them . The same could have been used in Godzilla but far too much of the movie has New Yorkers acting completely indifferently to a 1000 foot reptile hopping through the city . And I know those Apache helicopter scenes featuring the ' miniature ' buildings are supposed to be an homage to the Japanese Godzilla flicks but here they look completely stupid and seem like they belong in a different movie . They just don't fit in with the rest of the film and it's very distracting . That could have been handled a lot better . The ending sets up story for two sequels which never happened because of massive audience disappointment . A shame kind of since Emmerich could have learned from his mistakes in this movie and made a sequel that is much better . I own the Superbit DVD of Godzilla ( only available in Region 2 at the moment ) and the DTS 5 . 1 sound is awesome . With every pounding footstep of the big lizard the living room booms and shakes . Plus the 2 . 40 : 1 anamorphic picture is flawless .
Where have I seen this before ?	The Pink Panther fancies a job as a Matador but moths have eaten his red cape , so he decides to steal an enchanted cape from a Magician . Once in the arena his taunting of the bull only leads to magic going awry and the bull freaking out . It's mildly amusing without ever being laugh-out-loud funny . The whole premise is nicked from the 1953 cartoon A Bully for Bugs in which Bugs , as a matador , outsmarts a raging bull . Pinky doesn't do it quite so well and as a result the cartoon is quite boring . Not much effort put into the backgrounds either so it also looks quite cheap as well as being laugh-less .
No love from me	There's not much original about this short . Tom chases Jerry in the yard where they encounter Spike and his son Tyke sleeping peacefully . Jerry seeks refuge in their kennels while setting up Tom as the bad guy to the irritable Spike ( voiced by an uncredited actor ) . Jerry comes across as much more malevolent than Tom in this one , and deserves a comeuppance . The visual humor involves stepping on rakes ( fans of Sideshow Bob will be very familiar with this ) and a gag I'm sure I've seen before in which Tom prods around in Spike's mouth looking for Jerry . It's mildly amusing , but far from being a standout T & J short .
Not that great	There were 2 versions of Rambo III ( once the most expensive film ever , and the biggest loss ever ) released on home consoles . One was a first-person shooter that incorporated the light-gun ( much like Operation Wolf ) released on the Sega Master System and Commodore 64 . This one was slightly better . The other was a top-down vertically and horizontally scrolling shooter ( much , MUCH like the far superior Ikari Warriors ) . This is the version I got for the Mega Drive / Genesis . As a shoot-'em-up it's boring . You never really feel the violence or feel the impact of war . You only get one gun , with a never ending supply of bullets . But you do get bombs and a bow with a limited supply of arrows . Still , the gameplay is pretty mundane and the targeting sequences in between the ( very similar ) levels don't distract enough from the dullness . Nothing in this game really sticks out or makes an impression . The Genesis was capable of so much better than this . And why do stock photographs of Rutger Hauer show up in this when he was never in the film ? Graphics Sound D Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Guns . Guns ! And more Guns ! !	Just what were war bonds anyway ? I've never actually found out but from the looks of this Disney wartime propaganda cartoon it looks like some sort of bank . How else would we invest in victory ? The cartoon begins with Donald relaxing in his hammock as the radio advertises war bond savings . Donald says he'll do it tomorrow but a little Donald angel pops up and insists he do it today . Then the Donald Devil shows and says ' why not spend that money on yourself ? ' But if we lose the war there won't even be a Donald ! Shameless scare tactics indeed . I guess if we didn't all go down to the post office and hand over our green then we would have lost the war huh ? The bit at the end saying ' we need more guns , guns , guns ' would have modern-day censors going nuts . The ' good old days ' you say ?
Not much going on	For a film that has such interesting characters we only scratch the surface if exploring them fully . Hardly anything about why Tobey Maguire is a bit weird is explained to us . This is very annoying as he is the most intriguing character in the film . Although it was cool to see him paired up with Katie Holmes again . Michael Douglas turns in a terrific performance but he is not as good as he was in Falling Down which was definitely his best . But he certainly does come close here . As a writer myself I kind of understood his frustration but his reasons for not writing like he used to just didn't convince me . The photography in this film was superb . Dante Spinotti ( LA Confidential , Heat , The Insider ) creates a very unique and effective atmosphere . The scene outside the house during the party was very impressive . The snow , the silence and the slight wind were all wonderfully captured . This is without a doubt the film's strong point . This is by no means a bad film but it's not a great one either . But no matter what your tastes , you'll never waste your time watching it .
Not shocking or sexy at all	In fact it's a bit of a soap opera . Take away all the sex and you're left with some boring office politics you've seen dozens of times before . The story has 2 girls ( Nathalie and Sandrine ) get fired from their jobs at a tawdry Paris strip club . They move in together and strike up some kind of weird , half-lesbian friendship . Sandrine has never had an honest orgasm and Nathalie teaches her how to . She also teaches her to lose her inhibitions and masturbate in public . Wow , this may have been shocking back in the 80s with Nine and Half Weeks and even lesser drivel like Wild Orchid but now , in the 21st century it's just plain boring . If the film thought it could use this frank portrayal of sexuality in its favor then it is very much mistaken . In fact , the most interesting part of the film is when Nathalie and Sandrine both get jobs in the same office and use their sexiness to climb the ladder . This bit has also been done before in Neil Labute's In The Company of Men , but not as good . It's here that the best characters are featured but towards the end of the second act the film goes off in another tangent with the evil boss of the company turning out to be a crazed sex-maniac with delusions of godhood . Again , sexuality is used as a way of shock or arousing us , but it just fails . There's so many other films out there that try the same thing and if you want to succeed at it then you either have to be really erotic or just plain pornographic ( yup , two different things ) . Choses Secretes is neither . And the women need to seriously think about shaving George W . if you know what I mean . I know European women like to be au naturel but DAMN ! Overall , Choses Secretes is neither good or bad . It's simply middle of the road . For a film that tries to sell itself on loads of sex it's somewhat ironic that the best bits are in the scenes where people are just talking .
This is Looney Tunes ?	' cause it sure doesn't feel like it . In fact it seems more like a Disney Public Service Announcement from the 40's . I mean , there is a black and white cat in this short and it's not even Sylvester . Why ? Basically it's about how fool's gamble their life away with opportunities they know are phony . A gambling bug ( a very unaesthetic character ) bites the cat in the ear and he feels compelled to play cards with a big dog . If he loses the penalty is torture . And he does nowt but lose . Man , that message there is really subtle huh ? The only good thing about this cartoon is the music , which is rather lively and engaging .
Fluff	Have never read one single Daredevil comic book in my life I guess my review is kind of unbiased . Okay , I am certainly NOT a fan of Ben Affleck but his presence in this film was an indifferent one rather than an aggravating one . For those of you who are unfamiliar Daredevil is also known as Matt Murdock , the blind lawyer . But though his eyes do not work his other 4 sense do to a superhuman degree . Sounds , smells , touches and tastes go together to form a bizarre sight that has pros and cons over normal vision . It's pretty cool concept and it's reasonably well done . But Daredevil has NO plot ! It's a swift 90 minutes of practically nothing . The most involving part of the film is the romance between Affleck and Garner but it's cut short with the arrival of Colin Farrell who plays Bullseye , a paper-thin but funny character . Many have been annoyed at the fact that the Kingpin is played by a Black-American actor . But what does THAT matter ? Who cares if he's white in the comic book ? Michael Clarke Duncan brings some formidable integrity to the role but does come off as a bit too cuddly at the same time . A tiny bit of story is set up but it's over very soon . I guess the best you could say is that Daredevil doesn't outstay its welcome . But you'll not remember it 5 minutes after seeing it . And I don't like the fact they chose to separate all Daredevil and Spiderman links just because they were licensed to different studios . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a very powerful DTS 5 . 1 track . Plus a bunch of extras I don't care about .
Better than I expected	I though this film was going to be nothing but juvenile nonsense . How pleased I was when I discovered that it was a lot livelier and energetic than I predicted . The voice-over never once annoyed me as I thought it would and everyone in this movie seems to go overboard with their characters . Yet , despite all the energy and frenetic comedy , the film never feels indulgent . The plot is , of course , nonsense . But then again you hardly want a family movie to have a labyrinth plot . Dudley Do-Right may have flopped but I don't know why . It's in the same field as the terrible " Waterboy " but that made over $100 , 000 , 000 . This I won't understand . Maybe it's only because Canadians will truly love the intellectually-challenged Mountie .
Talk , talk , talk , talk talk ,	I don't mind movies having cool dialogue in every other scene . Talking about and building plot is important but HIGH FIDELITY has NO plot . It is nothing but talking . There are some cool scenes but it gets very boring very quickly . It was a long 113 minutes let me tell ya . I know what this movie is about . A man growing up years after he should have . But it should have been shorter . All the performances are very good . Especially Jack Black as Barry . It's the biggest role he's had so far after smaller roles in movies like THE JACKEL and MARS ATTACKS . But Tim Robbins steals the show . Rent this movie on DVD and keep it turned down low because the music throughout is outrageously loud .
Generic T & J short .	In this cartoon Mammy-Two-Shoes ( not dubbed to be less ' offensive ' in the one I saw ) is devastated to learn that there is a mouse in the house and he's eating all the food and making a mess . So far , so typical . She gives the two lazy cats ( Tom and someone else who isn't named ) and ultimatum-the one that catches Jerry will not be thrown out . Cue the usual chases around the house and tricks using household objects in a cartoon that is so generic and formulaic it's almost a cut and paste of many other T & J shorts strung along in succession for 7 minutes . Yes , there are laughs , but it's utterly forgettable and average at best .
Not scary	I can't understand why this is regarded as a classic . The plot is simple and offers no real twists , the scenery is drab and depressing and there is some really ugly 70's fashion on display . I went to see this movie because I like Donald Sutherland but he looks more like 70's porn star John Holmes than the Donald Sutherland I know . There are some odd moments to the direction and Nicolas Roeg has a strange way of cutting and editing . So many people has said so many great things about this movie but I honestly couldn't see them . You'd have to be a fool to not know the outcome at the end . Also the film seems to be in the same league as all those Redemption titles from the 70's . The gritty style and the massive lack of any beautiful images give Don't Look Now a rugged and haggard look . Watch this in the Theatre not on TV .
Ach , it's okay	This movie is closer to movies John Woo did before he came to Hollywood . I'm talking about Hard Boiled and The Killer . These both had high melodrama and an emotionally troubled hero . Dolph does quite a good job of this and gives a pretty good performance . Many people criticise Dolph for not being a good actor but when you forget that your watching him you'll realise that he's quite good despite never having any acting lessons . This is the first film in which I've seen him be a sort of father figure . I think he handles dialogue well and tries his best to do as much as he can in the mediocre roles he is offered . He should be in more high-profile movies and should climb out of the DTV hell his career is in . His best film so far is Joshua Tree but Blackjack is good to watch . John Woo's style is written all over this film . More so than Broken Arrow ( in which his style was entirely muted ) . Color schemes , camera tricks and slow-mo shootouts are all present in this movie . It's a little lacking , and confusing , in the plot department but when your having so much fun it doesn't matter THAT much . I heard somewhere that there is soon to be a TV series of Blackjack . If there were I think I would enjoy it very much . The only thing stopping this from being a high-profile hit is the fact that it's a TV movie . But don't let that put you off .
Wears thin fast	Six years have passed since the Umbrella Corporation released the T-Virus into the small town of Raccoon City and turned almost the entire population in flesh-eating zombies . Leon Kennedy , one of the survivors has risen from ordinary cop to a special agent in charge of VIP security . When the President's daughter is kidnapped by a deranged evil cult in rural France he must do whatever it takes to get her back . What he discovers is a conspiracy that makes the T-Virus outbreak look like a 70s episode of Blue Peter . For the next several hours you'll run through zillions of different environments blasting as mad villagers and collecting gold . The more gold you collect the better weapons you can buy from the creepy merchant who shows up throughout every level . Yes , it all looks very pretty . But it's increasingly tedious stuff . Let me just say that I loved Resident Evil ( the Gamecube remake ) and I thought that Resident Evil Zero was quite a lot of fun too . While Resident Evil 4 is an improvement in terms of graphics and hardware it doesn't have any atmosphere or the overwhelming sensation of dread and fear . This is basically down to the style of gameplay . Gone are the spooky camera angles for a start . Instead , this time the camera is constantly behind Leon , following him in whatever direction he goes . It's a bit tricky at first but after a few minutes you'll get the hang of it . Also , the game is not really about exploration and mystery solving and you never really go back to the same place twice . Okay , this is a good thing in some ways as it did get a little annoying before ( the ' door-opening ' cut-scenes are also gone ) and I understand the gameplay of the franchise had to evolve but , the way it is , RE 4 just feels like a shoot-em-up . In your long , long journey ( the game is absolutely MASSIVE ) Leon visits a rickety European village that seems stuck in the dark ages , onto an old castle , then to a creepy island and on into a huge fortress and laboratory . In this respect it feels a LOT like a Dungeon Siege game in regards to the constant running around in torch-lit catacombs , killing big insects , collecting treasures , trading / building up your stats and weapons and looking for that way out which seems to be miles away through endless , labyrinthine corridors . All you really do in this game is go forward and shoot . And it gets quite boring after the halfway mark . There is some very slight puzzle-solving but I suspect this was only put in to satisfy hardcore RE fans . And what really gets on my nerves is the stupidness of it all . The RE games are notorious for having extremely convoluted plots but the story in this one will have you tying your brain in knots . And why the hell does Leon battle 20-foot tall ogres ? Is this a Lord of the Rings game ? The realism of the first games is absent and with it goes the sense of gut-wrenching tension . You know this game is just fantasy hokum whereas before the sense that it all could happen is what made the zombies all the more terrifying . A sload of homages and references to other movies are peppered through the game . Try to spot references to Splatterhouse , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , hell ? even Harry Potter . All interesting but still totally inappropriate for an RE game . There are plenty of pros , like the previously mentioned brilliant graphics , the sheer size of the game is impressive , the cool extras and mini-games awarded after finishing ( I did it in 15 hours and I WON'T be going through it again ) and faster loading times . But the boredom of killing the zillionth evil henchman and his twin really gets mind-numbingly dull after hour 10 . I finished this in 6 days ( the original and Zero took me much longer ) so I suggest you rent this if you're not the obsessive RE collector type . While it is a great-looking game and very slick , it just didn't keep me as thrilled ( or as scared ) as it could have . Graphics Absolutely wonderful . The RE games on the Gamecube have always looked brilliant but it's hard to find better looking games than this . The environments and locations are all so vividly detailed it would be scary if the game were not so corny . Sound Again , almost perfect . But I would have had more satisfaction is blowing the heads of freaks off if the gunshots were louder and more dynamic . The musical score comes and goes and it's nothing special but if you've got it hooked up to a home theatre the best thing is hearing those freaks creep up behind you . Extras As with the previous games , the faster you finish the game , the better extras you will unlock . Mini games , special costumes , heavy artillery , hidden treasures and bottle caps are but some of the goodies awaiting you . Final Thoughts I am disappointed that the game doesn't live up to it's predecessors . I understand a 4th in a series must be radically new and different but this feels too far removed from the original games and the outlandish plot connections seem false and forced . A decent shoot-em-up for a once around only . Despite the bonus unlockables , it was too derivative for me to come back . The PS2 version is also available in a metal case .
A doped up Puma ?	Not much going on in this short , I'm afraid . Bugs saves his little , hyperactive pal Junior from being eaten by the slow-witted Pete Puma ( who acts like junkie looking for a fix ) . Bugs proceeds to execute a lame running gag with a hammer and hitting the poor doped-up puma on the head . It's not intelligent stuff , by any means . Odd , considering how great Bugs ' usual standard is . The main problem lies with the fact that Pete Puma is not a great foil for Bugs , Junior is too hyper to be likable and there's a huge lack of real invention and mania . The Puma in drag scene also looked a bit disturbing . Bugs has done much better than this .
So Light It Floats	There's a fair amount of fun to be had with this film . It doesn't take itself seriously or bother going too deep . The tone is bright and happy and it makes for perfect mindless entertainment . But nothing else . Seriously , there is no need to watch this more than once as it is the most forgetable pile of utter silliness in a long time . Owen Wilson is so charming as the hapless but innocent crook Roy O'Bannon who teams up Jackie Chan's Chong Wang / John Wayne to put an evil Sheriff out of business , rescue a Princess and defeat some stock Chinese Bad Guy . It's all harmless stuff with some neat fight scenes that never get too violent and a gleefully light-hearted sense of humor . Randy Edelman's generic Western score is terrible ( as usual ) and sounds like everything else he's ever done only with a few notes changed . But it's the only weak part of a thoroughly indifferent , inoffensive and passive movie . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound .
A slick potboiler , but pretty tame in retrospect .	In 1979 Sean S . Cunningham was looking to produce a mere potboiler to tide him over until his next serious project . His idea of a Summer Camp Killer movie seemed like a decent , low-budget , one-shot deal and he went with it . There was nothing particularly memorable or unique about it but it was bought by Paramount and released as a mainstream film , rather than a independent struggler . The response was huge and it soon became clear that Friday the 13th was not a mere paycheck but a serious cash-cow . Sequels followed . And the rest is history . Many , many people claim that Friday the 13th rips off Halloween . Which is not a very fair or kind statement . Sure , it's no work of art and has many similarities , but Halloween was NOT the first slasher movie as Black Christmas and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre came before it . I was actually draw more parallels between this and The Last House on the Left , which was also produced by Cunningham . Friday the 13th is a slicker , tamer film in comparison but if TLHOTL never existed then we would have the Friday the 13th franchise that we have today . The characters and deaths are not so imaginative . All we really get is throat slashings and impalings . But at least the fodder are not as obnoxious and annoying as they would later become in the sequels , when they truly deserved more grotesque deaths . At the time , the ending was surprising only because it came out of nowhere . The sudden unveiling of the killer and motives was random and unexpected . It's weird watching it now , knowing that Jason and parts 2-infinity were never planned . Jason was just a dead boy and nothing more . It's hard to review Friday the 13th on it's own merits rather than the movie that launched a major franchise . A low-brow slasher script made into a potboiler movie that ended up making zillions in sequels , spin-offs , TV series ' , toys , games and accessories seems so far-fetched .
Off on a pink hurl	The Pink Panther is nosing around a used-car lot and is contemplating buying a small bug car that looks like it would fit him perfectly . Only it's the wrong color . So he happily pays good money for it and takes it home to spray-paint . Once out on the streets with his new pink bug the car starts to give him hassle and is finally pushed over the edge when Pinky drag races an old granny . I'm not that impressed with this cartoon . Nothing much really happens and it's not really that hilarious despite few funny moments . It's mostly a one joke affair and doesn't really get good mileage out of it . Pun intended .
Blah	I'm not too keen on this one , I'm afraid . Jerry becomes an unexpected ' mama ' to a baby woodpecker after an egg falls out of a nest and rolls into his quarters beneath the house . The baby bird hatches and mistakes Jerry for it's mother . Hardly an original concept for a cartoon , even back in 1949 . As expected , the Woodpecker goes crazy , pecking stuff to into dust . When out in the open , Tom ( who appears just two minutes before it's finished ) takes an instant dislike when his afternoon sitting in a deckchair is interrupted and tries to kill the annoying little chick . I'm with Tom on this one .
Two parts Baseketball , One Part Kingpin	I have never seen a more unoriginal movie in my life . Every single joke , gag or pun in Dodgeball is blatantly and openly stolen from another movie . And this really , really bugs me . However I did laugh constantly and it was enjoyable . Though I must confess my hatred of Ben Stiller and his insistence to crank out 200 unfunny films a year ( a schedule typically reserved for porn stars ) . Initially , I hated Vince Vaughn and liked Stiller . But now that's kind of flip-flopped . After Vaughn's funny performance in Old School I warmed to him but Stiller is under the impression that everything he does is funny . He certainly is not ; anyone can act like a jerk . The plot is old hat . But Vaughn's ragtag group of losers and their determination to win the Dodgeball tournament is the real laugh machine . Though I was constantly thinking about how they worked much better in Baseketball or Kingpin . Asides from Vaughn and the so-not-funny anymore Stiller the cast is good . Rip Torn as Patches O'Houlihan is amusing ( though he did the exact same role in Summer Rental ) , Stephen Root ( that's Bill Dauterive for all you King of the Hill fans ) was my fave and there's plenty of cameos from the likes of Hank Azaria , Jason Bateman , William Shatner , David Hasselhoff and Chuck Norris . Funny it may well be but expect practically every laugh to come with a heavy sense of Déjà vu . I wouldn't bother buying the DVD when it comes out . Just watch Baseketball and Kingpin side by side on 2 TVs and you'll end up watching this . And trust me , if ESPN 8-The Ocho , was a real channel , I'd be watching it every day .
Lukewarm	Such a promising concept ( as unoriginal as it may be ) like this cannot be fully exercised in a 95 minute long movie . Had this movie been made a few years ago then it may have been a bit more original and ' in time ' to be a part of the whole ' reality TV ' boom . As it stands ' Showtime ' is neither ironic nor exciting and you will forget it completely 5 minutes after watching it . If the movie were extended to a little over 2 hours , with tighter editing and a better script it may have worked . Nothing is fully explored or exploited in this film and the villain is so weak and pointless his role could easily have been played by a ghost . ' Showtime ' really ought to have been a mini-series . This would have offered a greater sense of self-referential , ironic humor and given more time to devote to plot , character , action and intelligence . But in this hour and a half movie , director Tom Dey cannot make anything work . Murphy isn't funny , DeNiro is sleepwalking and Russo is wasted . The only person contributing anything of worth is Shatner . And the references to his TJ Hooker show are ironic by accident in regards to Hooker being better than ' Showtime ' and ' Showtime ' within the movie . This movie is only an example of money thrown away and the totally wrong approach given to a promising concept . I would rent it . But make sure it is the widescreen version as the fullscreen ( actually pan and scan , or ' CROPPED ' ) has about % 50 of the picture missing . The commentary is uninteresting and I must seriously point out that the advertised ' Uproarious additional scenes , including hilarious improvised Eddie Murphy ' are anything but . Even if I had watched my own autopsy they probably still would be the most uncomfortable and unfunny things I have ever witnessed in my life . The HBO documentary is light promotional fluff hosted by William Shatner and the extended scenes offer nothing new .
Better than Goldeneye : Rogue Agent , but still a bland FPS .	I'm not really big on the Bond games . Most of then are no more than ordinary first person shooters with licensed characters . I guess since the original Goldeneye game on the Nintendo 64 was so popular they felt like they shouldn't stray to far from the winning formula . In this game we have a generic interpretation of Bond involved in a dull plot involving clones and kidnapped world leaders . We go through several different locations but only some of them are cool and none are used to their full potential . There are a couple of driving levels too , but the street design is just uninspired . The best thing about FPS games is the ability to just go berserk and shoot-up the place , hoping to catch the baddies in the crossfire . But you don't really get a lot of ammo and reloading is painfully slow sometimes . And the destruction you can inflict upon the environment is very limited . I can really only recommend AUF to Bond fans . The rest of you have soooo many other choices for superior FPS games , you don't want to waste your time with this one .
You have to be kidding me !	Is this a video-game or a book ? I've never done so much reading in my life so I'm sure it's not a video-game . Trace Memory is one of the early Nintendo DS titles and it seems to have been made to showcase the DS features as any kind of enjoyable gameplay has been totally thrown out the window . You play a very cute Japanese girl ( the white hair thing is cool ) called Ashley Mizuki Robbins on the day of her 14th birthday , since she shared the same birthday as me I am assuming that the personalised DS changes it for each player . She journeys to Blood Edward Island to reunite with her estranged dad but when she arrives he's not there and you must find him . So begins a long , long and even more tedious game of looking everywhere and talking to other characters and a ghost kid with loads and loads and loads and loads of reading dialogue . Dialogue that there is no button simply skip by and get on with the game . It's a bloody pain in the ass I tell you . Each of the DS features is used at least once in the game , such as blowing on the screen to help Ashley blow dust off an old mirror or folding the screen together to solve some sort of reflection code . Oooh . . . wow ! But where the hell is the enjoyment ? And get this , not only is this game torture to get through , but you actually have to complete it TWICE ! No way man ! You solve all of the mystery regarding the missing dad but then you start at the beginning again in what they call a ' starred ' game in which you must do THE EXACT SAME THING again ( including reading all that bloody dialogue ) only to have a slightly different ending in which the ghost kid remembers his past . Well he can ' live ' the rest of his death in ignorance because I ain't wasting my precious time helping him . There are better games out there than this . I mean , the graphics are nice and it's a very summery looking but the generic music , slowness , endless reading and dull plot make a game that's more of a sleeping pill than a fun experience . Graphics Sound C Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Important message drowned in clichés and empty effects	Roland Emmerich seems to have learned a few lessons from ID4 . TDAT is not disgustingly patriotic and is far more darker and serious . The comical nature of ID4 ruined it somewhat and I'm glad he chose to mute it for this movie . But still , though the subject matter is serious and definitely needs more consideration in real life , TDAT fails to disturb or scare us into saving the environment . Emmerich seems fascinated with destroying the Big Orange and the Big Apple . In ID4 both were obliterated by fire . In Godzilla New York was smashed by a big lizard and instead of a wall of fire in TDAT , we have a wall of water wiping out New York while twisters tear LA apart . These effects could have been scary and ominous and utterly engaging . But the point of view we see them from showcases them as big budget movie effects rather than believable ( and eventually possible ) disasters . There are also zillions of clichés to deal with . The minor character who sacrifices himself , the character who puts his / her life in grave danger for stupidest of reasons , the ignorant authority figure who dismisses the intelligent warnings and puts dozens / hundreds / millions of lives at risk . All here for your annoyment . There actors did their best with the weak characters . Dennis Quaid ( his brother was the hero in ID4 ) is good in the lead and always watchable . Jake Gyllenhaal is kind of wasted in a role that requires him to do nothing more than stand around looking blank . Though Ian Holme was quite cool and the plot involving Scotland freezing was interesting ( though it already IS freezing ) . It bugs me when people criticize the film for having no story . There IS a story ( there'd be no movie otherwise ) , but it's minimal . Roland Emmerich seems to be serious about saving the environment and uses this film to push a message to ignorant politicians . A shame then as the story is nothing but an excuse to tie together a bunch of SFX set-pieces . You gotta give Emmerich some credit though , the scale of this is huge , as were his previous movies . He certainly knows how to handle these massive projects but there is a distinct lack of ' epic ' feel to TDAT . Even ID4 has this . However , no director in history has ever made frost look so menacing .
More like Plastic Axe	I was dreading playing this game after suffering the unspeakably awful Golden Axe 2 . Honestly , I have played few video games that made me want to hurl my console out the window but the first sequel to Golden Axe brought me very close . Originally not released outside of Japan , Golden Axe three offers a bit more in the way of gameplay by introducing unlockable characters and a non-linear route to final boss . The graphics are merely adequate , not pushing the Mega Drive potential in the slightest . The backgrounds are mainly bland and generic but not to the point of being distracting , if that makes sense . There are only about five character models for the villains and about two different ( and rubbish ) music tracks . The sound effects suck , the combat is painfully limited and the character magic is utterly unimpressive . Despite all this , I didn't feel like turning it off in disgust and stuck with it until the end . I had fun , not lots of fun , but still felt like I had played a semi-decent game . Skip Golden Axe 2 and go straight to this one .
Awful Opera	Eesh , if I were making an Opera I would NOT cast a hen as the fat lady . Sorry . She's just awful , that noise . . . ugh ! I think Disney should have realized her singing would have put people off ! The 1 minute shot of her just singing was too much to bear . As usual for a Disney cartoon , calamity is not far behind . Backstage Pluto is being tormented by rabbits in a top hat , conductor Mickey is desperately trying to keep the Opera from falling apart and Donald has trouble with his acting skills and prodding stuff with his sword prop . The audience gets a fair chuckle as everything goes badly . And the cartoon ends on an abrupt note , as many Disney toons do . Mildly funny .
Extremely predictable and a mighty slow start	There is not one wolf in the film . But that doesn't mean there ain't no predator and prey . Three friends : Ben , Lizzie and Kirsty are off on a hedonistic tour across the Austrailian outback . It's a pleasant enough trip despite the usual country hicks making fun of them . Upon visiting the second largest asteroid crater in the world they ponder whether or not the rock was drawn to that part of the earth . What is it about the endless , lifeless desert ? Why do so many people hike out to the middle of nowhere just to see it ? Maybe they like feeling small and insignificant when compared to the infinite space above and the ominous desert around them . Satisfied with their viewing of a big hole they decide to crack on with their trip . But when they get back to their car it mysteriously won't start . By now they are getting a little freaked out but relax somewhat when a Crocodile Dundee-type hickster comes along and offers them a tow back to his ranch where he offers to fix their car for free . At this point Wolf Creek drastically begins to resemble House of 1000 Corpses , Wrong Turn and Texas Chainsaw Massacre . The hicksters compound turns out to be a torture dungeon / mass murder burial ground . There are rotting bodies everywhere and the hickster turns out to be into Ed Gein style rape and dismemberment . Each of the three victims gets their own segment in which they try to escape the hickster's compound . I'll admit that this is the strongest part of the film with some genuine moments of gut-wrenching tension and chills and brutal gore but the victims make such dumb decisions that you'll more than likely be overcome with anger at their stupidity . You just know that they're gonna end up dead meat . And you just know that any kindly bystander that offers help is gonna buy the farm too . So much of this will be the usual routine for horror fans . The hickster turns out to be just as indestructible as any other slasher killer you may be familiar with and the psychotic country-bumpkin thing is certainly nothing new . Despite turning a few of the genre clichés on its head and reversing our expectations a few times , Wolf Creek is a dunderheaded exercise in routine horror . It takes ages to get going and doesn't add up to much in the end . But for a good bit , in the middle , the film delivers enough excitement to make it worthwhile . However I am glad that there are people out there who are ready and willing to make a non PG-13 rated horror , despite the end result being somewhat a disappointment . Oh and it's NOT a true story despite what the narrative and over-zealous ad campaign suggests . It's loosely based on separate true events but has as much truth to it as Braveheart II .
Engaging thriller that deflates halfway through	Identity quickly sets itself up as a tightly-drawn whodunnit mystery thriller . As 10 strangers ( including John Cusack , Ray Liotta , John C . McGinley , Clea Duvall , Rebecca DeMornay , Amanda Peet , Jake Busey ) come together in a rundown desert motel during a rainstorm , suspicions and fear among them rise when it appears their is a killer in their midst . Adding the intrigue are the seemingly unconnected scenes of a late-night hearing of a would-be sent-to-death serial taking place far , far away from the motel . For about 60 minutes , this 90-minute movie keeps you hooked . Then it sets about breaking all the rules it has set up and massive gaps in logic distract your attention from the increasingly preposterous climax . I can honestly say I never saw the twist coming . But it came too early and led the film into stupidness . It is atmospherically shot and the feeling of isolation is quite cool , even if it doesn't last very long . But , in the end , I've seen episodes of Midsomer Murders that are far better than this . But what do you expect from a film written by the guy who wrote Jack Frost 2 : Revenge of the Mutant Killer Snowman . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are a bunch of extras I don't care about .
Not great , but better than Vengeance	I hated Batman : Vengeance and I was a little bit weary about playing this game . So I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was actually a fun little beat-em-up in the tradition of Streets of Rage and Double Dragon . However it is still quite a shallow game . Each level looks exactly the same as you ( as Batman , Robin , Batgirl or Nightwing ) run around levels like the City Streets , the Sewers , Museums etc and beat-up generic looking villains . The graphics and levels look pretty but the scenery is rather flat and unengaging . Plus the upgrades with special moves are hardly that exciting though it is slightly fun using them to kick-in the heads of evil henchmen . But when you do it for the forty-millionth time it does get a bit boring . And every level involves either defusing a bomb against 3-minute time limits and rescuing hostages against 3-minute time limits . Wow ! But , like I said , it's still far better than Vengeance and the cut-scenes look lovely . And for the tiny amount of pennies that I paid for it I can hardly complain really .
SNES version is a classic , GBA version is a disgrace	The evil scum of the Bydo Empire are at it again . So it's up to you to climb into your R-9 Ragnarok vessel and blast off to defeat the mutant alien slime . This second sequel ( or third if you count the Japanese Arcade-only R-Type Leo ) was originally just as solid as any other game in the series . This GBA version is tepid to the point of redundancy . The cut-scenes have been omitted so the game is just one level after another . While the graphics look good they have a tacky cheapness about them that is distracting . And don't get me started on the music . The R-Type series is famous for having some of the most coolest of the coolest tunes ever , sort of like a futuristic space-rave . Sadly , in this GBA version they have been cut down to the most horrible sounding and basic midi files . It almost feels like there is no music at all . The gameplay just sucks , plain and simple . Nothing is about skill , instead one must memorise their way around the levels . There is no fun to be had in risk-taking as you will always lose coz the odds are so heavily against you . And too often there are long gaps in which nothing happens , just the ship cruising through empty space . And when you inevitably die you get sent miles back and must do it all over again . Since finishing this near-impossible games requires doing levels over and over again it becomes very repetitive and tedious very quickly . Anyone keen to check out R-Type III ought to get the SNES version and leave this disgrace be . Unless you like game that will make you tear the hair from your head in frustration and bore the pants off you with the dull levels . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Very Bad Kids	Mickey and Donald very kindly treat the local orphans to a picnic in the countryside . And how do they repay them ? By tormenting them and ruining the picnic . How about that for gratitude . It's not massively funny but the orphans ( all looking like little Mickeys ) are so cute . And would I be correct in assuming that they made an appearance in the Toon Town scene in Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? Vividly animated it may well be but beneath the cleverness of some gags and the class of it's appearance there ain't much laughs in Orphan's Picnic . If I had my way the little scoundrels would be cleaning chimneys for the rest of their life for that behaviour .
An okay platformer . . .	. . . though increasingly tedious and a bit dull . As usual for film tie-ins of the time it had little do with the story of Alien 3 . Ripley runs about with a big gun ( there were no guns in the film ) shooting at loads of aliens ( there was only one in the film ) through many different levels . While the levels looks good and had a decent atmosphere about them it looked nothing like the Fury-161 prison / refinery of the movie and all you really did in them was jump from platform to platform and go up and ladders . Occasionally a Xenomorph would rush and knock you over if you didn't blow it away . It became really boring after a while and only those with seriously nothing better to do would be able to stick it out until the end . And why is Ripley alive at the end ?
Very Clichéd	Almost every horror cliché is present in this movie . Cars not starting , a girl not believing the guy is really getting killed , the dumb authority dismissing the heroine's cry for help as nonsense and many , many more . All teens ( actors in their 20s ) are booze and sex hounds who do nothing more than party and laugh at serious stuff . How annoying . Once you find out who the killer is you realize that it would have taken precision planning on the scale of Desert Storm to pull off the murders that happen in the movie , even if some of them are purely by chance and some don't even coincide with Urban Legends which is what the whole movie is based on . Many characters are given ( very ) brief roles and ( very ) small personalities . Then they are killed . Like they are just teenage meat that are killed for our pleasure . I thought Hollywood had stopped making conveyor belt movie like this , but obviously not . When will filmmakers realize that horror films should be surreal , elaborate , scary , daring and manipulative ? Never apparently . The only reason for watching this movie is Chris Young's pounding musical score . Once again he has creating a soundtrack that is simultaneously action packed and creepy . But compared with trash like I STILL KNOW , this is a good movie .
Really ought to have been made in Britain with an unknown cast	With a more low-key theatrical release and no big-names stars Cold Creek Manor might have had some more credibility . Director Mike Figgis has no real experience , or business , in Hollywood movies and the mere fact that this got such a big release may be part of the films downfall . With such marketing , word-of-mouth and hype that a Hollywood film gets one always expects something crowd-pleasing . It's clear when watching Cold Creek Manor that Mike Figgis is more at home making small British movies that are not exposed to such harsh criticism and are generally accepted as being good even though they are nothing special . There nothing much thrilling about Cold Creek Manor . But Stephen Dorff does manage to create some amount of tension with the crazed psycho character he plays . The rest of the film seems like an awkward mix of Pacific Heights and The Ring , despite some moments of genuine atmosphere that reminded me a lot of the Myst video games . In a diluted , no-brainer , who-gives-a-damn way Cold Creek Manor makes for an above-average nights entertainment . But just don't expect anything mind-blowing . And can someone tell me where the Cold Creek is ? The DVD is in very good looking 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a great Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack that's ten times more dynamic than anything in the film .
Where's Pink ?	The Pink Panther turns up on a tropical island after walking all the way there under water , holding his breath , with an umbrella up to keep him dry . All he wants is a relaxing vacation but a little hunter man and his faithful dog are disturbing him . So he plays tricks on them . Pinky is hardly in this cartoon at all and most of the sight gags come from the numerous explosions the little hunter man suffers at the paws of his dog who is so faithful he doesn't realize he shouldn't be playing fetch with a stick of dynamite . It ain't that funny and there's not much invention to it either . Not really a good vehicle for the Pink Panther and it's almost an exact carbon of 1966's Smile Pretty , Say Pink .
Cute game with no lasting appeal at all	For a game made in 1994 this Sega Genesis platformer does have some clunky controls and a real lack of innovation . Yes , the graphics are brilliant but the sound effects are rotten and the music is worse . The gameplay has a few neat tricks but nothing amazing . And the lack of steady control when Taz goes into a whirlwind ( imagine Sonic when he's spinning ) will really get on your nerves after a short while . The game has Taz kidnapped by Marvin the Martian and taken to a Space Zoo . Taz , being the irritable sort breaks out and rampages across the planet . Before making it back to Tazmania he visits the MoleWorld , Planet X , Mexico ( where he encounters Yosemite Sam ) a haunted castle and finally Marvin's house . Anyone familiar with Looney Tunes cartoons will no doubt get the zillions of references . So the title is a bit of a lie then . Especially since you GO BACK to Mars after reaching Earth . Once you finish this there is no need to ever play it again . Graphics A Sound D Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Gorgeous to look at , little else .	Road Avenger was one of the games Sega used to promote the Sega CD system on its launch . You can see why when looking at clips from the game . The graphics are wonderful and to the naive it would seem looks like a living anime cartoon that you can control . But looks can be deceiving . The story had you play as an ex-cop who is out to avenge the death of his new wife , who was driven off the road by a gang of Mad Max style bandits . The game is a first person driving game but not in the usual style of Out Run or Formula One or such . In fact , all you were required to do was to push the control pad in the right direction . As the car you drove would pass through varied territories like urban down town , the forest , desert canyons etc a direction ( either up , left , right or brake ) would appear on the screen . If you push that direction the car would continue on its rampage , otherwise you would crash with a generic death animation . It was fun if you got the game right and the car would tear through buildings and stuff , while scared pedestrians would look on in amazement . The music was also cool and I wish Sega released a soundtrack CD as some of the level tunes and the main theme song were great . Sadly , Road Avenger was about no more than pushing buttons . It was the most linear game I have ever played . Even if you chose what direction the car took it would have been slightly re-playable . But it wasn't . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Quite Boring	In this short , Pluto is assigned to guard the army base against potential invaders . This task he accepts with keen enthusiasm . But the invaders turn out to be Chip and Dale ( before they became Rescue Rangers ) and they play lots of pranks on poor old Pluto . Basically , they are using the weight of a huge gun barrel to crack nuts . But when Pluto gets angry at this they use it , instead , to crack Pluto's head . Not very nice and the bulk of the ' humor ' comes from this . I didn't find myself laughing so much , or at all . Pluto isn't really a strong enough character on his own . He works better when teamed with Mickey . There's not much invention going on here and the short is rather simple-minded . Not a classic .
Pointless though modestly entertaining nonsense	I'll be blunt . There is not a single part of Eden Lake ( oh , the irony ) that has not been done in another film . From beginning to end you will recognize elements from Last House on the Left , Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( old and new ) , Wrong Turn , Breakdown , Judgment Night , The Descent etc etc etc . It goes on and on . I feel like many of the makers of the aforementioned films deserve a royalty check from Eden Lake . Plot : Couple harassed by delinquent kids in rural area . It's really not worth more than that nine word description . It's brutal and sick and some moments do get an unnerving reaction out of you but you'll leave the cinema either feeling cheated or with a strong sense of deja-vu . One of the many films it borrows from is the original Friday the 13th ; a film that was only supposed to exist as a pure potboiler before evolving into an important 30-year franchise . Eden Lake is a similar kind of potboiler in that it only exists to serve itself , the director's resume and further the cast's experience . I don't know if I'd want to have THIS on my filmography but a couple of them ( Bronson Webb , Thomas Turgoose ) are slumming it with this dredge . Not a bad film by any means , and not a good one by a long shot . Eden Lake is just very , very ' meh ' .
Already falling into tedium	When it comes to keeping a consistent plot the Halloween series has been the absolute worst . 1 and 2 follow each other okay , 3 is the joker in the pack , Return , Revenge and Curse were nothing but gibberish and H20 and Resurrection have been poor ' post-modern ' exercises in convention merely using the Halloween name . Right after the original Halloween ended , Laurie is taken away to get stitched up , but Michael Myers ain't quite dead yet . Much of this bore is set in a hospital as he very , very slowly goes about his killing machine business . Donald Pleasence does his mad doctor bit again spouting some crackpot dialogue in a strange , offbeat way . No one listens to him , of course and they end up dead . It's an okay sequel but it's marred by unbearable slowness . The pace for that particular night was already set by the first film so why slow down and build up again ? Regarded as a classic far too often the first film is somewhat obsolete today . But it does have one purpose : to always look good when compared to the drek of ' horror ' we suffer today . This first sequel , coming a mere three years after the original , already looks tired and the thin premise is stretched to breaking point . There's no purity or class here . Plus it leaves a lot of questions unanswered . What happened to Jimmy ? He died by gently banging his head but didn't keel over until 20 minutes later ? What ? Why do the credits list someone playing Michael Myers ( Age 23 ) when he is only 21 in the film and is played by Dick Warlock ? Why did he kill the Sheriff's daughter ( which he does again in Revenge ) ? This new DVD from Universal improves upon the cruddy Goodtimes release by giving us a new 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture and a sturdy keepcase instead of a horrid snapper . The sound is in not-bad-for-its-day Dolby Stereo . There are no features to speak of , which is annoying since Universal originally promised us commentaries , documentaries , deleted scenes etc . Pick it up cheap .
I HATE Speedy Gonzales	Man , I hope I'm in the majority here . But I gotta be honest , this mouse is so highly , extremely irritating . Does he ever shut up ? Not only that but the whole character is kind of xenophobic and un-PC . Now I am certainly NOT one for being PC but I still find Speedy kinda offensive . In this cartoon he asked by his Mexican mouse pals to cross the border into America in bring them back cheese as they are all starving . Is there subtext here or am I reading too much into it ? Sylvester is there to stop him . Or at least try . The usual Cat and Mouse hijinks follow . It's not really funny and I'm amazed it actually got an Academy Award .
If I wanted a love story I wouldn't watch Indiana Jones !	Young Indy travels to Austria with his parents where he meets Princess Sophie at a riding stable and falls madly in love when they sneak off for the afternoon . But her parents are furious and forbid them to see each other again . After taking dodgy advice from none other than Sigmund Freud Indy runs off to proclaim his love before leaving forever . It's sweet but barely holds the attention past the love story . The second half of the movie is inexcusable though as the Jones ' travel to Florence where opera composer Giacomo Puccini falls in love with Indy's mother while Henry Jones Sr . is out of town . The following story of ' will she or won't she cheat ' is certainly NOT what I want to see while watching an Indiana Jones adventure . There are plenty of crappy soap operas for that kind of stuff . I can't believe that Mike Newell ( Goblet of Fire , Donnie Brasco ) directed this . Watch only if your are an Indy completest or a sado-masochist .
Looks great but not my thing	Don't get me wrong . I love RPGs and building up custom characters but I don't like them in the 2D world of the GBA . On the PC I have played awesome games like Dungeon Siege , where the RPG element is at it's best but I found Golden Sun to be really slow . It took ages to get going and there is an unbelievable amount of dialogue in it . But there is no way to skip past it . You will literally be sitting there hitting the button for 10 minutes reading bland word bubbles . Some have given this game a great review but I'm afraid this RPG just didn't do anything for me and I won't be checking out the sequel . Graphics A Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Quite boring	This was the first true product off the conveyor belt of Hollywood teen-slasher flicks after the highly over-exposed SCREAM . Teen-slashers were suddenly back in fashion . And Hollywood loves teen-slashers . These movies are basically the same tripe done over and over , made for very little , with no aces up the sleeve and ? actors in their 20s playing teenagers . Something that bothers me very much . You've probably noticed this by looking at my other reviews . IKWYDLS is no exception . Every scene has been done before and the film has little originality . Some of the killings are totally pointless and are only there to fill up the running time and give us something to look at while the characters argue over ' who is the killer ' . A standard argument in these kind of movies . It's a very boring film . It takes ages to get started and when it finally does get going it's more annoying than it is exciting . Bo-oring .
Blam ! Blam ! Shoot me with grease bullets !	Well , I had no idea bacon fat could be so deadly . And I'm sure the housewives of America at the time didn't know that common kitchen grease could be made into torpedoes that would sink Nazi U-boats or 1 billion steel tipped bullets to blow away the advancing army . And hey , you know what ? If you save a pound of fat and take it to your local butcher ( if he is an official fat collecting station ) he will give you cash-money for it . How about making a tidy little profit out of war eh ? This very , very short cartoon will probably never be shown again , even on TV unless another war breaks out and the Army needs your bacon fat . An interesting look at wartime propaganda nonetheless .
Below average generic kids movie .	And only marginally redeemed by Garfield . There's not much to separate this from rubbish like Cats and Dogs and Stuart Little . Everything that happens on screen is there to appeal to the youngest of kids . No one over the age of 8 will get much out of this movie . Unlike movies such as Shrek 2 or Brother Bear , there's absolutely NOTHING in this for adults at all . A shame really as the humor in the Garfield comic strip can sometimes be very clever and observant . It's worse when you go see this with a bunch of screaming kids ( and a baby-honestly why bring a baby to the cinema ? ! ? ) who laugh at every single thing . And that's including the stuff that isn't meant to be funny . It did get very irritating and proves furthermore that this is a movie for infants . The tiny bit of humor the movie does have comes ENTIRELY from Garfield . Bill Murray is great , his delivery is catatonically laid-back and dry . The CGI of Garfield is also very good . He looks to cute that you just want to keep him . But any positive the movie has begins and ends right there . Breckin Meyer may look the part of Jon but he has less than nothing to do in the role . Jeniffer Love Hewitt ( gorgeous as she is ) is totally slumming it in a role that requires her to do even less than Breckin Meyer and the other animal cast members resemble nothing like their comic-strip counterparts . I was a little annoyed at seeing Garfield talk in the trailers but in the movie no humans can hear him or the other animals . There are some other things they have changed . Odie comes straight from the vet , though in the comic-strip he came from Jon's friend Lyman . Nermal does not appear to be Garfield's cousin and Arlene doesn't appear to be his girlfriend either . The story of Garfield rescuing Odie from an ' evil ' TV host is completely uneventful and nothing much happens around it . The ending is an unentertaining , unexciting anti-climax and disgustingly childish . I appreciate kid's stuff . I could watch 100 episodes of Sesame Street back to back . But this film was the most brain dead excuse for low , low-grade kid's entertainment in a long , long time . Jim Davis should be ashamed for allowing his wonderful creation to me made into such a lousy movie . The 3 stars are for Garfield himself ONLY . Otherwise , without him , it's a hardcore 1-star experience . You wouldn't find Calvin and Hobbes behaving this way .
More like ' The Woman in Black and White '	A serial killer on the streets of London has Scotland Yard in a panic . Inspector Gregson ( replacing Lestrade , who is obviously not suited to this kind of story ) asks Holmes for help . On the case for only a few minutes , Holmes already makes keen observations and quickly deduces that it all must be the devilish work of Professor Moriarty . . . again . He's already died twice in these movies and another third time before this story is set . It annoys me that he's always so prominently featured in many Sherlock Holmes films when he really was no more than a come-and-go character in Conan-Doyle's stories . Henry Daniell is really bad as Moriarty and comes across as wimpy and effeminate . Not exactly a good approach , this ain't no pantomime . The reason behind the murders is also quite contrived and nonsensical and there's only a little bit of a mysterious atmosphere . A cheap and silly Holmes movie and certainly the lowest point so far for Rathbone and Bruce .
A bit weird	I'm not sure for what purposes this short was produced . It seems like the kind of thing Alan Partridge would do for Comic Relief or something . It was made after his talk show but before the docu-sitcom that followed in 1997 so I believe that Steve Coogan was trying to experiment with the character a bit . The short involves no more than Alan taking a stroll through the countryside on a misty December morning . He comments on how he's not allowed to walk on Mike Oldfield's estate , his idea for vending machines to be built into hedges to cut out the need for chippie vans and how miserable he was at college . If your familiar with Alan you'll know that he's a monster . But this is only funny when you realize he's just a victim of his own extreme ignorance and narrow-mindedness . But this short is actually a bit uncomfortable and is the first time that Steve Coogan really makes Alan Partridge look like a disturbed loner . This little quirk may have worked well in small doses but as we got to series 2 of I'm Alan Partridge it put me right off the character . I don't really find this funny or fitting . As a comedy character I think that Alan Partridge is great but as a tragi-comedy figure I can't bring myself to laugh at anything he says or does . And this short was the first time Coogan took the character in that mis-direction .
Sonic the Hedgehog should stay in 2	This game was an improvement over the awful Sonic Adventure 2 , but no by much . It has the potential to be more fun but is still crippled by horrible gameplay and bad camera problems . The switching between 3 characters , who each have 3 different abilities , became very annoying and the levels were all too alike and just seemed to be vaguely recycled levels of the 2 previous games . As much as I liked the original Sonic Adventure I have to say that Sonic in 3D just doesn't work and doesn't feel right . The original Sonic platformers , plus the new Sonic Advance games are what the blue hedgehog is all about and it's worth investing your time in them if you're a serious Sonic Fan . Leave stuff like this game to the kiddies .
Not the best racing game , not the worst .	I can't remember what possessed me to buy BC Racers . From the package artwork it looked like a cute , cartoony kind of racing game but I usually hate racing games . However , I had just recently got a Sega CD and this was one of the games in the shop and it was rather cheap so I figured why not . As a racing game it's more like Mario Kart than say OutRun . All you do is lap the same course over and over . Obviously there are different courses and such but they're all flat terrain and not that interesting . They have all the usual perils and hard bits but there was an overwhelming blandness to it . The hook of this game was that it was set in the stone age and the racing karts were a lot like the kind of vehicles that Fred Flintstone would drive . I guess it was kinda cute . But it still lacked invention and creativity . I did actually finish this game on my own without cheating . Which is weird since it wasn't really addictive and I did attempt it several times . I felt no joy when I finally got there . BC Racers is a very average game in all departments . If you see it in a bargain bin and you just love Kart Racing games then give it a shot . Graphics B Sound C Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Five minutes of fun	I paid only 400 pennies for this game . And quite right too as it certainly does not have much lasting appeal . In fact I finished it twice the very day I started playing it and was about to go for a third today but it just wasn't worth it as all the levels ( 8 of them ) were the same and there was no variety other than the different types of attack between the 18 characters . The backgrounds are blandly drawn and the knockouts unspectacular . All the usual KOF characters are here , such as Terry , Andy , Joe , Mai and , my fave , Geese Howard but I'm afraid this game is rather tedious and far too easy . Graphics B Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Middle of the Road	The only reason I watched this is because my girlfriend threatened me to . This is movie is sooo desperate to be a post modern crime thriller that it looks and feels so relentlessly superficial . Most scenes are decked out in unpleasant pastel colors and interiors are always lit with warm lights . It's nice to look at but has a student filmmaking feel to it that distracts me . Something else that is quite unreal is the scene in which Nivola and Witherspoon discuss their forthcoming crime . . . on a roof in front of a neon sign on a sofa . Yeah . . . like people keep sofas on roofs in front of neon signs . This was obviously an attempt by the director to add a little sparkle to an otherwise BORING scene . Which is also the reason he throws in some cliched camera angles . It's a " film noir " you see . . . so diagonal shots on an ordinary scene are standard . Composer Craig Armstrong was obviously hired at the last minute when the director heard the score for Romeo and Juliet to provide a superficial ( that word again ) soundtrack . It sounds like it belongs in a totally different movie . But perhaps this is a good thing . There isn't much theme but the music does evoke some weird feelings from us . Much like the feelings the characters have . It's cool and I wish more scores were this way . The " twist " wasn't too obvious to me . Once it occurs it takes away all the tension and stress right away and will relieve you big time . It even manages to change the tone of the whole movie to light-hearted . In case your wondering my girlfriend lists this as number 2 in her top 3 movies . Number 1 is Devils Advocate and 3 is Moonwalker . . . ugh !
Little Ducker	Tom , living on a farm now ( owned by Old MacDonald if the music is anything to go by ) , swipes a newly laid egg from a duck's nest and proceeds to cook it . The little duckling obviously doesn't want to be eaten so he flees to Jerry's dwellings within the voids where they team up to thwart Tom . Yes , it is EXACTLY the same set-up as the previous short Hatch-Up Your Troubles , even to the extent of having the little bird peck through things and shout ' Mama ' . I am so sick of these ' cute ' little characters brought in to partner with Jerry . It's the same thing every time , right down to them smiling and walking off into the sunset as the cartoon irises out . A couple of good gags make up for it , but the duck is incredibly annoying .
Mild , meaningless film	Steven Spielberg used to tackle massive movies that were huge blockbusters and instant classics . Think Jaws , Indiana Jones , Jurassic Park , Schindler's List , Saving Private Ryan . Now he's busy with ' who cares ? ' little movies with little stories and little meaning . Catch Me If You Can and The Terminal are perfect examples of this . What has happened to Spielberg ? Why is he wasting time on easily forgotten stuff like this and not concentrating his efforts on something bigger and better . Tom Hanks is great as Victory Navorsky , the traveler from Eastern Europe who is stranded in JFK airport after war breaks out in his country . He is not allowed to leave the terminal so he settles down in an abandoned departure gate and makes a temporary home for himself . In between mild scenes of mild drama some colorful characters pop up for some mild involvement . The least of which is lecherous Catherine Zeta-Jones as Flight Attendant with no clue who ends up being a complete waste of time . It's not so hard to believe why Dodgeball beat this to the number 1 spot this past summer . Both movies are instantly forgettable but The Terminal doesn't have much of an audience outside of pensioners ( I was the only person under 60 when I went to see , in an almost empty cinema ) . With Catch Me If You Can , Steven Spielberg certainly proved he can do simple , non-epic movies . But he also proved that 12 years earlier with Always . Did we really need another one ? The only thing worthwhile in the Terminal is John Williams ' warm musical score . Which is mild rather than magical .
Just . . . weird	I never really got into this movie , it's more strange than it is funny . And Chevy wasn't his usual self either , he was way to morose and distant to really side with his character or empathise with him in any way . Chevy plays Max Fielder , an air-traffic controller who's life is constantly in the toilet and bad luck follows him everywhere . He's very paranoid and possessive over his girlfriend , so much so that she dumps him for some total dork . On his way home from a disastrous night out his car is sprayed with radioactive gunk from a leaky government truck . He is soon blessed / cursed with telekinetic abilities , which he uses to get revenge on those who make his life miserable . It could have been really fun but it's just . . . weird . Ken Shapiro ( who ? ) does not have the same edge in his direction as Harold Ramis , Michael Ritchie or John Landis and he doesn't know how to fully use Chevy's brand of humor . There are some laughs to be had though , but their not so memorable . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen but it's mostly all shot in soft focus so there's nothing outstanding here . The sound is plain old Mono and it's alright if nothing else , though the dialogue has very heavy use of ADR . A trailer and TV spot are included . Oh . . . and that theme song playing over the menu , opening and closing credits ? Yuck !
Fun for a few minutes but gets too hard .	Joe Blade was a rather fun game in which you searched all over this military compound looking for hostages . As a side-scrolling shooter it wasn't that violent as you only ever encountered a bad guy once in a while . Bizarrely , when you shot them they instantly became a pile of skull and bones that looked like a small white chicken to me . But I was about 8 when I played it . But a few minutes in ( you had exactly 30 minutes and counting to complete it ) the game got so difficult that I never got any further . I'm talking about the bomb you had to defuse by breaking some kind of code . It was impossible and you only got sixty seconds to do it in . If it weren't for that I'm sure I would have played Joe Blade for much longer . The Commodore Amiga version had much , much better graphics btw . Graphics Sound Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Ew !	For the love of God , don't watch this while eating dinner . I made that fatal mistake . It's not a pleasant cartoon , it's a nasty little public service announcement warning of the dangers of mosquito breeding in your back yard . If you're quite squeamish when it comes to bugs ( as I am ) it'll make you completely paranoid . The horrid detail it goes into , especially the cross section close-ups of a mosquito biting some guy , really give you the heebie-jeebies . A good thing the Seven Dwarfs are so obsessed with cleaning up and totally eliminate every possible mosquito breeding ground from their home . According to this short they can breed almost anywhere . Needless to say , I cleaned my kitchen and bathroom right after watching this , while struggling to keep my dinner down .
Not worth the effort	A review of the Sega Genesis version . The only difference between this game and the original Outrun is that this is dull and very boring . I wonder why Sega even bothered making it because it's certainly not worth owning if you have played the first . The graphics in the arcade version are fine but on the Genesis they are even sparser than before . The handling is terrible . The music bland ( where is Magical Sound Shower ? ) and you cannot choose which way you want to go at the end of each stage , the whole game is stuck on a set course . At the end of every five stages you can choose upgrades for the car that include Hi-Grip Tires , Super Engine and Faster Turbo and no more . While I have no doubt that this would have made a difference in the arcade the Genesis version offers very little advantage to upgrading with these features . And since there are only 3 of them , by the beginning of the 5th race your car will always end up the same way , so there's no REAL customization to it at all . I was very disappointed with this game . Even the Commodore 64 version that I owned way back in 1989 was better simply because it has Magical Sound Shower included . Do not bother with this game . Graphics D Sound D Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
Generic shooter	In fact , ' generic ' is too fancy a word for this game . It tries to attempt the same sort of atmosphere seen in the recent film Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow , with Jules Verne-type technology in a 19th century setting . But it's so dull and uninteresting . You have the choice of playing as biplane or a blimp ( hardly the best kind of combat vehicle ) as you fly through several slightly atmospheric stages blasting at generic enemies and catching generic power-ups . There's almost no skill involved in it at all . And the music is some of the most boring I've ever encountered in a video-game . I can't think of anything to recommend this game . The Gameboy Advance version features slightly improved graphics and altered cut scenes , but would still never ever consider paying full price for this . If you're desperately keen then pay less than half price for the GBA version if you can and ignore the Sega release . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Predictable and clichéd , but mildly entertaining	16 Blocks is the kind of movie you can really only watch once and even at that you'll be correctly guessing what happens next as it goes through loads of familiar developments with a lot of unsubtle foreshadowing . I'm surprised that Richard Donner managed to make a film so tepid . The rapidly ageing Bruce Willis plays a downbeat , alcoholic cop who is talked into transporting a witness ( most definitely Mos Def ) to the courthouse to testify against dirty cops . Only those dirty cops make it very difficult for them to make this seemingly simple , short journey . Since the film runs 102 minutes and they have 118 minutes to get to the courthouse , it's not strictly in real time . But it did very much remind me of Phone Booth in terms of brisk pacing and bustling New York backdrop . A suspension of disbelief is seriously required as a few completely implausible things happen . I mean , how the hell do the dirty cops constantly manage to catch up with them . Do they have secret homing devices and teleport machines ? Why did Willis not shoot any of them in the foot so they couldn't follow ? Why didn't he identify himself properly on that bus full of complete moron passengers ? Richard Donner has proved himself a master of action in the past but this PG-13 rated movie is just packed full of jittery , blurred , badly-lit , incomprehensible shoot-outs . A harder nature and bad guys that DID more evil instead of talking about already doing it would have made a better movie . Rent this . And completely forget about it the minute you switch the DVD player off .
Shockingly average Ben Dover production	This was released around the time that VCA really got tired of Ben Dover's long set-up and lack of variety when it came to women . You can see why they dumped him from their label when watching this one . The DVD begins with Amy , a raven-haired and blue eyed South-African girl . Ben picks her up at the station and drives her to one of his many house . There she does the sex with Pascal which includes anal . It's slow and boring . The second scene stars Maja , an Egyptian girl at college in England who's inexplicably into porn . Which is very unusual considering the massive censorship and the laws / religion regarding porn in that country . She meets Ben in a hotel room and when Mario arrives the sex starts , anal is included . Maja , doesn't talk much but she's got a great body and it makes for a good scene . Third is Rebekah Jordan and Kinky , both of them get anal and DPs from Pascal and Mario . It's a good scene but not enough of the good stuff I'm afraid . Last is Navine . She meets up with Ben in a seedy studio and dances for him . Pascal and another nameless guy show up and she gets a DP . It's an okay scene but Navine really needs to shave .
Nice to watch , but don't expect greatness	Christmas Vacation 2 is nowhere near as classic as the original . But that doesn't mean it's not worth a few laughs . Just switch your brain off and enjoy an afternoon of stupidness . Cousin Eddie ( the ever lovable Randy Quaid ) is housesitting for Audrey ( the totally sexy Dana Barron ) during the Xmas holidays but loses his job at the Nuclear research plant to a chimp . Feeling down about how hopeless he is , Eddie is cheered up when the company offer his family and all expenses paid trip to Hawaii . So off they go ( uncle Nick and Audrey too ) for their dream Christmas Vacation . Obviously disaster is never too far away . This movie is basically pointless . The first was about Clark Griswald wishing to give his family the best Xmas ever . This ' un is just an excuse for a string of bad jokes with terrible comic timing . In this regard it's kinda similar to Vegas Vacation , the wit and sentiment of John Hughes is sorely missed . Quaid does his best , but there is a lot of not funniness to it . He deserves better material , Matty Simmons may have produced all the other Vacation movies but he hasn't a clue how to write a good script . Christmas Vacation 2 is to the original what Home Alone 4 was to Home Alone . Plus I have a few questions , which I am sure a lot of other people will be asking . Why does Audrey's plumbing go mental ? Why do Eddie's clothes stay impossibly white for the entire film ? Why is there an elephant on the island ? Plus there isn't that much of an Xmas feel to it . Sure the scenes in Chicago and quaint and snowy but a Hawaiian Island is hardly the best setting for a festive movie . However , Eddie does whistle and hum enough Xmas tunes to make up for it . But where the hell is the wonderful Christmas Vacation song ? Buy if you're a fan of the first . Rent if you're only curious . It's nice to see a great character such as Cousin Eddie given the center spotlight but I just wish he was given funnier stuff to do . The DVD is in above average 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with okay Dolby 2 . 0 surround that is mainly used for general ambiance but still sounds fine whenever required . A handful of trailers , a brief featurette and a commentary make up the extras .
Sounds great , plays crap	I find discovered Soul Star through a free soundtrack CD given away on the front of a magazine ( which I nicked from the store while on lunch break from high school ) way back in spring 1994 . The music to Soul Star is GREAT ! And I really wanted to play the game . I never got a Sega CD until over a year later and the wait was not worth it . As a 3D space-shooter , Soul Star was pretty rotten . There was no targeting system and the weapons available were rubbish . The graphics were alright and slightly atmospheric but not up to the superior standards of the Sega CD , it was all Genesis quality . Apart from that brilliant soundtrack , which is the only reason to get the game as the CD doubled as a score CD if you popped it in your player . Aside from a couple of interesting cut-scenes there was no other reason to play this game . A real disappointment . Graphics Sound ( effects are crap but music is awesome ) Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Not much to do .	All you really do in this game is look around Springfield and run into the occasional character . I finished the entire thing in less than 2 hours . Plus it is not very vivid or deep . You can only visit 2 classrooms in the Springfield elementary school , there is only 1 angle of Moe's bar etc . All you really do is LOOK at these locations that we are already familiar with and have the tiniest little bit of interaction with them . Plus the geography of Springfield in this game is not the same as the TV show . Which is also inconsistent in it's placing of many " sets " . Moe's Bar has been in many different places for example . But , then again , in the HOMER BECOMES a garbageman episode , the town was moved to another site . Perhaps this is where it got all shuffled up . There are a few little ( and I mean little ) games included . One of the main games is to simply find hidden baseball cards . A ploy to trick into clicking on the screen and revealing slight animation . In total there is just under 25 minutes worth of animation here and it is cool that the original cast provided the voices . But unless you are a Die Hard Simpsons fan then I would leave this game be . Definitely only for younger kids .
Surprisingly weak	The first , and worst , sequel to Die Hard , is terrorised by the same plot as the original . While waiting for his wife's plane to arrive at Dulles Airport ( on Xmas Eve ) , McClane notices a few suspicious exchanges between a group of men amidst the busy yuletide passengers . Before you know he is neck deep in trouble with an army of mercenaries , led by Colonel Stewart ( William Sadler ) , who are hell-bent on setting free a corrupt South American General / Drug Baron ( Franco Nero ) . There are more bad guys than before . And more suspension of disbelief is required . There are so many plot holes and illogical moments that the film almost drowns in its own absurdity . But there is enough action and stunts to cancel it out and distract our attention . Though they not presented in a breathtaking or memorable way . It's all too generic and a bit mean-spirited . No audience nowadays would be satisfied with it so prepare yourself for 80's violence . William Sadler and Franco Nero lack the callous efficiency of Alan Rickman . And a hero can only be measured by his nemesis . But most of the time McClane is just capping off nameless mercs . How boring . Tho this should not be blamed on Sadler , he has a threatening and intense presence and as he has proved himself in movies like Trespass and Demon Knight . Too bad his character here is so badly written and underdeveloped . I'm sorry but blowing up 250 people off-screen to show how evil you are just won't cut it . This was Renny Harlin's second movie of 1990 ( the other was Ford Fairlain ) and it is without a doubt the movie that made him a certified action director . It was a tough , and huge , movie to pull off . He just pulled it off with no particular charm . Though he does a wonderful job of capturing the look and feel of an East Coast winter . The wide-open snowfields and ice-covered runways will definitely make you feel chilly . Although this is another problem . The first Die Hard worked entirely within the space of Nakatomi Plaza . It was claustrophobic and almost plausible . The scale and scope of Die Hard 2 is too big for its own good . Similar to theproblems of ID4 , the staples of reality are ripped out with ignorance and over-confidence . The bulk of the film is nothing but one dumb action scene after another . It doesn't make for coherent viewing . Die Hard 2 is a definite lag in between both of McTiernan's very strong outings . By today's standards it seems dated and very 90's . Which is a shame considering the original and ' With A Vengeance ' are , in a way , ' timeless ' . It's movies like this that inspired ' Last Action Hero ' . Filmed in Panavision , the 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture is superb looking with true blacks ( a lot of this film is set at night ) and nice fleshtones . Fire effects and colors look beautifully orange and overall the quality is top notch aside from a few instances of minor pixelation . The gunshots are loud and ferocious in both the Dolby Digital and DTS tracks . All explosions and every punch and kick are rendered with amazing clarity . Some of the surrounds tend to stick to mono but the plane crash in the middle of the movie will convince it is actually happening in your living room . Dialogue scenes tend to stick to the front speaker and the musical score by Michael Kamen is well recorded and is sure to excite . Renny Harlin's commentary is much more interesting that John McTiernan's fatigued and labored effort on the first movie . Harlin talks about the characters more and how he prefers his movies to be in terms of motivation and why characters should smoke only if it is necessary . Among other things . Such as how many of the effects he did then , in many different ways , would be so much quicker and easier to do today in Digital CGI . The Featurette was made for Fox TV back in 1990 and it is a bit better than the usual , self-congratulatory nonsense that bogs down most featurettes . But it still can't resist talking about how ' great ' the movie is . Tho thanks to this extra we now know that most of the snow in the movie is shredded soap . A second , 4-minute , Featurette is basically an extended trailer . There are a few deleted scenes that are not that interesting and it's easy to see why they were cut from the film . Although the alternate scene on how McClane gets to the Annex Skywalk ( The Boiler Room ) is quite cool . The interview with Renny Harlin and the Villain's Profile are promotional titbits in which they discuss how to direct a high-concept sequel and how to be an evil bad guy . Behind the scenes and storyboards focuses on 2 scenes . The first is ' Breaking the Ice ' and the second is ' Chaos on the Conveyor Belt ' . The storyboard and film comparison is for the ' Skywalk Ambush ' sequence . Visual effects breakdowns explore , in great length and tedious , repetitive slo-mo , the Ejector seat scene and the Airport Runway . These are basically green-screen evolutions . The other model effects scenes broken down are ' Chopper ' , ' Airplane Models ' and ' Wing Fight ' .
Weak , weak , incredibly weak .	In fact AVP is weaker than a 10x recycled tea bag . You get my point . . . it's a very weak film . What else could be expected from Paul ' It's not my fault ' Anderson ? A man who is forever blaming studio interference for the poor quality of his films . What on earth Fox , Walter Hill and John Davis were thinking in hiring this hack I'm not sure I want to know . Trust me , no matter how naive and simple your film-going pleasures are , you will walk away from AVP forever jaded and cynical . Both franchises are best examples of their genre . Alien-Utterly faultless Aliens-Breathtaking hardcore sci-fi action Predator-Just so brilliant words fail to describe it Predator 2-Underrated sequel that plays like a story taken directly from a 1950 Tales from the Crypt comic-book . Alien 3-Notorious failure but far superior to AVP . Alien Resurrection-Very strange but intriguing weirdo sequel with some wonderfully unique touches . And now . . . AVP : Alien vs Predator-Watered down , childish , repetitive , boring , completely flat , soulless and castrated . Paul Anderson simply has no idea where the heart of either franchises is . He directs the film with arrogance and over-confidence . Undeniable proof of this is obvious in the scene where Sebastian says ' It's all beginning to make sense now . ' I'm sorry , the sense must have been lost and me and the rest of the audience . Having seen AVP in the cinema twice now I must stress to you that the film does NOT hold up in repeat viewings . After being surprised at how ' not too bad ' it was the first time , the rotten dialogue , endless exposition , slow set-up and lack of actual Alien vs Predator fighting damn this film to hell . Much like the main faults of last years Freddy vs Jason , though at least that film was a hard R-rated movie and not a kids movie . For a crossover franchise that has existed for over 14 years throughout many different forms of media , the AVP movie should have been an epic directed by someone with talent . Instead Anderson craps all over the source material and directs the worst film of his toilet dwelling career . AVP plays like a bunch of cut-scenes from the video games and totally devoid of any originality . In one particular scene he blatantly and obviously rips off a narrative from HP Lovecrafts At The Mountains Of Madness . The nerve ! There are plot holes all over the place and massive gaps in logic . Like why does the acid blood conveniently only corrode weapons the Predator doesn't really need ? And why oh why do they hunt in Antartica ? The are drawn to earth areas of heat and conflict . Just as horror movies are desperate to come up with new , better reasons to make the use of cell phones not available to the dying one-by-one characters , AVP uses the most asinine reason to isolate the cast so no one can help . Get your head around this monstrosity . . . the Predators hunt Aliens in a pyramid 2000 feet below the ice on a remote island in Antartica . WHAT ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ! Of course they do . And the next Robocop movie is set in a volcano below Vietnam . Honestly , it is the most ridiculous story ever concocted . How dare they release this gibberish upon an audience who , for a long time , deserve better . Despite the utterly moronic plot and pathetic characters , the film does do a decent job of tying both creatures together . Such as the Predator's fondness for triangles and multiples of ten . The Weyland-Yutani corporation's initial interest in the species . And the presence of Lance Henrikson , as Bishop's creator and the only cast member with credibility . The Predators get very little screen time ( much of the film's meagre 101 minute running time-14 minutes of credits-is devoted to wandering around dark corridors . . . how astonishingly new ) and when they do show up they are total wimps . Though the main one is a bit harder , he's a bit too humanized at the end . His facial expressions are very , very cool however . One cannot help how much better this film could have been . Even with the awful Anderson at the helm , if Alan Silvestri's scores and themes from the Predator movies had been kept then the tame action scenes would have soared . As it is , Harald Kloser's score to the movie is generic and unengaging . Yet another missed opportunity . The ending hints at a sequel . If it's anything like this count me out .
Cute and colorful but too childish	From a graphics point of view this game is very impressive . Sadly from a gameplay angle it's kind of limited and every level is basically the same thing . This could basically be described as a side-scrolling beat-em-up , though the uncontrollable camera POV becomes very annoying . And compared with old-school games of the same genre , it doesn't hold up . Pow , biff , bam , smack ! It just goes on and on for the whole game . There are some levels that could have been cool , like the rooftop or subway stages . How cool would it have been to chuck the bad guys off the roof or onto the subway tracks ? Very , but an invisible wall prevents this from happening . It's so disappointed that a lot of exploration is cut short . In the subway level trains rocket past in the tunnels on either side of you , but in the middle tunnel ( where you battle loads of bad guys ) there's no trains at all . Most levels are this way , there's just no REAL interaction with the environment . The Streets of Rage games on the Genesis were better . It's the same thing . The city is overrun with thugs headed by a big boss . You beat them up and kill the boss . TMNT does not improve on this concept . Cute graphics though . It's also kind of easy . The game is totally aimed at kids . I've seen better , I've seen worse . But I would suggest renting the game as it's long-time appeal is drastically short .
Starts off fun , ends up really , really boring .	Unless you're a fan of the original Kingdom Hearts on the PS2 then I would probably stay away from this game . You'll be totally lost and confused and won't know who the hell any of the characters are aside from the recognizable Disney ones . Plus , they are all suffering from amnesia and their long , too frequent , cut-scenes have an enigmatic feel to them so you'll still not really ever be sure what is going on no matter how far you get into the game . I think the card-based strategy of fighting and evolving is a horrible , badly conceived misfire of an idea . This kind of thing may be fine in a Beyblade video-game but in a Disney / Final Fantasy game it's just inappropriate . The whole concept is scatterbrained and random and has no real skill involved . It takes ages to build up a decent combat deck and even when you do the fighting is endless , tedious and boring . You'll fight the same villains in every level and while in appearance the levels may look different ( taking their inspiration from many different Disney films ) they are essentially all the same . The fun comes from spotting popular Disney characters and trying to get into the story that involves them . But the plot is so incomprehensible and alienating that I just didn't care after a while . I did stick with the game for a good few months and found advancing through each level to be an exhilarating and thankless chore . Nothing changed and I never really felt like I was getting anywhere . I've played better RPGs than this and so have you . As RPGs on the GBA go , I've yet to see one that truly works . Skip this unless you're a die-hard fan of either franchise . Graphics A Sound C Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Barely interesting cheap-ass monster flick .	There's something I find enchanting about the old monster movies and their gloomy castle settings and spooky countrysides . The Wolf Man does have a small amount of both but it's the only thing that kept me watching . The ludicrous , utterly nonsensical story suffers the same burden as many of these quickie black and white productions in the fact that it spends a lot of time setting up character and plot only for it to go nowhere in an abrupt finale . It's like they knew that they couldn't film any decent set-pieces or exciting scenes because there just wasn't any money so they just made a 60-minute soap opera with a 10-minute wash-out ending . Set in what is apparently England , accents are all over the place from snooty British to casual Californian . The action seems to revolve around just three different sets which include an antiques shop , a castle and a forest that is so obviously a studio set with a smoke machine running off-camera to hide the flat floor . Some nice moments of atmosphere , mainly in dark shadowy sets , are the only thing that kept me watching this hopelessly dated timewaster .
Brilliantly shot .	But still falls short in providing a coherent storyline . I have no doubt that this film is more intelligible to those who speak Korean but I was a bit lost at times and couldn't keep up with all the characters . The story is about the angry ghost of a dead student at an all-girl school who periodically turns up in the guise of someone new . . . or something . Like I said , it's hard to follow . But the eerie photography and reliance on practical scares make it worthwhile . Far too many horror films these days are too slick and well-polished for their own good . Whispering Corridors features a certain rawness in it's grainy film stock and editing that gives the film a rather unique atmosphere . The gore isn't terribly excessive , nor is the film extreme in any way . But if you're in need of something different and with a weird edge to it then go for Whispering Corridors . Try hard to keep up though .
Certainly no Castle of Cagliostro	Oh , what a huge difference a director makes . Where Castle of Cagliostro had atmosphere , inventive visuals , coherence and plot Mystery of Mamo has blandness , cheap backgrounds , confusion and silliness . It IS good for a single viewing and features a couple of pretty good action scenes but , I'm afraid , beyond that it's just as forgettable as any other random Japanese cartoon . Lupin III has been cloned and killed and the ever highly-strung Inspector Zenigata rejoices but it turns out that some being from another dimension in the form of a dwarf freak and a huge disembodied brain is behind the whole charade and involves the real , living Lupin III in some cockamamie plot . Don't even think about trying to follow this tripe . There's no charm or appeal to Mystery of Mamo and while there's plenty of visual humor and the characters we love , they deserve a better film . Go watch Castle of Cagliostro instead .
Hungry as Duck	Donald and Goofy are up in the arctic circle for some reason ( or it could be antarctic ) and are hunting walruses and penguin respectively , as they are both tired of eating beans . While I have no problem with a dog eating a walrus doesn't anyone else find it weird that I duck would eat a penguin ? Or ' roast chicken ' as Donald calls it . What's to stop Goofy from eating him with that logic ? Anyway neither of them succeed , as usual . But Goofy ends up in an ice cavern . flattened by icicles and Donald attempts to march a zillion penguins to their deaths but lets a little baby get in his way and bring about the inevitable doom . Fun nonetheless .
Highly clichéd but still quite fun	This film has nothing new to offer but is quite appealing . I can't decide whether Bruce Payne is hammy or believable as the villain . He plays Charles Rayne ( or the Rayne of terror ) a notorious airplane hijacker who is being transported to LA from Miami for trial . But as soon as his plane is in the air his band of nameless crooks ( including a crazily miscast Liz Hurley ) set him free . But not to worry because John Cutter ( Wesley Snipes ) is on board . And he just happens to be head of security for the airline . It's his job to round up the crooks and save the passengers from the evil intentions of Rayne . And he's only got 80 minutes to do it in . I'm not kidding . This movie is 84 minutes long . The credits roll at the 80-minute mark . Minus 2 minutes for the opening sequence and another 20 ( of tedious character building ) for the action to begin . You're left with a 60-minute slice of entertainment . It makes you wonder why they bothered . If Warner wanted to make a great hijack movie why did they bother with the Passenger 57 script ? It's too short and too clichéd . A couple of brief moments of action make it barely worthwhile , but watch on it TV . Don't rent it or buy the DVD .
Snakes are a pain !	It's not in every movie that John Voight gets to impress us with the size of his snake . And it's not often I make bad jokes like that . I apologize . In fact , when I saw this in the cinema , the audience was in fits of laughter at the very first sight of said beast . A National Geographic film crew travel down river to the deepest depths of the Amazon jungle in search of a mythical tribe of large-breasted naked women , or something . On the way , they pick up a hitchhiker whose boat has been wrecked in a storm . Big mistake ! The hitchhiker is Paul Sarone ( John Voight , hamming it up so heavy he's almost sponsored by Danish ) , hell-bent on capturing a 60-foot snake that's lurking in the water . The rest of the crew tries to stand up against him , but his sneer is obviously too scary to fight against . Ice Cube plays the typical homebody from South Central ; Jonathan Hyde is the typical English gent ; Jennifer Lopez is the typical tough babe ; Owen Wilson is a dufus , as always , and Kari Wuhrer - infinitely prettier than Lopez - provides a decent distraction from the hungry reptile . In the tradition of horror-in-the-jungle movies , the victims get knocked off , one by one . Sometimes the anaconda looks real and when it doesn't , the effects are iffy , indeed . The plot works up to a predictable climax , with a big bang , to satisfy the audience . It's hard to believe this film went straight to No . 1 at the US box office . It's simply awful , but has such a hey-ho charm and a who-gives-a-damn attitude that it makes for decent popcorn fare . The script is chockablock full of clichés and most of the laughs are unintentional . But entertainment is entertainment , nevertheless , and Anaconda provides enough of it . How can you refuse a movie that offers a POV shot of inside a snake's belly ? How on earth the producer managed to assemble the actors he did , when the characters are no more than snake fodder , is unreal . They're all capable of better things , that's for sure . If giant fakes - I mean , snakes - turn you on , then go for it . Otherwise , beware . This is a Z-movie with a B-movie cast .
Funny , but lacking in plot	This is the movie that really kick-started the careers of Jim Carrey and , to a lesser extent , Courteney Cox although it is Carrey who makes this movie all his own by his wild and energetic performance as a half-insane Pet Detective . In case you're wondering that's a detective who tracks down missing animals . Ace is a great character , with his wacky clothes , groovy swagger , wild hair ( LOVE that do ) and unpredictable behaviour . He's a page right out of Howlin ' Mad Murdock's biography . Courteney Cox plays a boss for the Miami Dolphins who hires Ace to find their missing cetacean mascot Snowflake . They can't play without having their mascot y ' know . It's paper thin and despite lasting about 85 minutes , it is stretched too far . What could have been a half decent plot soon descends into lame-brain juvenile humor as Ace does his class clown bit , offends many people and uncovers stupid and unfunny ' plot ' twists . Tom Shadyac tries his best to make the film look colorful and vivid and , for the most part , succeeds but sometimes the production design looks a bit shoddy and I have no idea who allowed Sean Young to be in this movie . She's a terrible actress and makes every scene damn painful to watch . However , she is quite a MILF these days . Not in this movie though . There are some funny scenes and easy to see why Carrey went on to become such a big star but compared to the rest of Carrey's career it's a bit of an insult to his talent . I prefer the sequel , even though Ace is a full blown lunatic in it and appears a tiny bit more normal and human in this one . A fun movie to watch once in a long while . Not something to rely on for never-ending appeal .
Fun filler , nothing more than that	Fans of RE 0 , 1 and 3 will no doubt get a kick out of this game . All of the key locations from these three entries get revisited and almost fully destructible in this rail-shooter . I ain't no fan of rail shooter games . They were fine back in the days of Operation Wolf but nowadays they remind me too much of those awfully dated ( and seemingly endless ) House of the Dead games . I was a little wearing when purchasing RE : TUC but I knew it would be far superior to the other zombie shooter . In between the rehashed levels you get to play as Wesker and find up what he was up to behind the scenes of the original games . If you unlock enough weapons and files you can also play a bonus level set in an industrial facility owned by Umbrella in the Russian snowy wastelands . Some levels take a lot of repeating until you get the right combination of weapons and perfect the timing but not to the point that you'll be chucking your remote at the wall . I am terrible at these kind of games and I still managed it . What disappointed me the most was the total lack of any kind of atmosphere . But it's not really that kind of game . RE : TUC is for those craving a dose of mindless violence rather than a problem-solving thinker . But when you unlock absolutely everything there ain't much reason to go back to the game . It's basically just something to keep the fans from starving until RE5 comes out , whenever that will be . One thing's for sure , it won't be on the Wii .
Super-duper-ultra violent but completely incoherent	The Prodigy begins with a drug deal going sour . Only instead of 2 sides facing off against each other in a typical Mafioso fashion , someone dressed like the Scarlet Pimpernel but with the aggression of Jason Voorhees on crack , appears out of nowhere armed with a zillion weapons and cuts them all down before getting into a brutal fistfight with last man standing Truman Fisher . The action is so searingly intense , it makes recent actioners like Running Scared look like a 70s episode of Seasame Street in comparison . The mystery villain is soon revealed to be some sort of mystical mega-psycho who goes by the name of Claude Rains ( as he is , in a way , an invisible man ) after he kidnaps the nephew of a gang boss . Truman Fisher is sent to find him but discovers that there is some kind of weird connection between him and Rains . That is where my understanding of the film ends as it becomes far too messy and unfocused . At a running time of 2 hours I feel a lot of fat could have been cut to keep a tighter , more nervously wrought pace . Whenever Rains is on screen , doing his shooting , slashing and torturing the film absolutely soars . But in between , when Fisher is going from one place to another , it really lags . And by the end you won't have a clue what's going on or why . Less filler during the second act and more coherence in the third would have made this film so much better . I wasn't the only one who felt this way as there were several people in the audience who left halfway through . Made on an unbelievably small budget of $219 , 000 the film honestly looks 10 times that amount . The action and fighting is amazing and Rains is a truly terrifying , imposing villain who pushes this film well out of the Crime genre and into Horror . Obviously , since the budget is so small , it won't star anyone you've really ever heard before but they do just fine . A few characters are completely superfluous and could have been cut-out in a more preferable , leaner running time however . The film is surprisingly stylish and action-packed considering it's low-budget nature but that doesn't excuse the increasing lack of sense as it goes on . Still , it's a fine attempt at film-making and adds something new to both Action and Horror .
Just eat him and get it over with !	I hate Tweety . I hate his stupid head , his stupid eyes , his stupid voice and that whole androgynous thing he has going on . At one point in this cartoon Sylvester even gets him in his mouth but doesn't swallow . Why ? I want Tweety to be digested and never seen again ! The story in this one is the rivalry between Sylvester and another , uglier , cat out for Tweety's blood . As they are constantly working against each other the annoying bird always gets away . If they just cooperated they might have put and end to his irritating catchphrase once and for all . The Xmas theme gives it a cheery holiday feel though .
Dumbo : More Blood Part II	First Blood was a fable written in the days of old by none other than William Shakespeare . It was a tale of a simple man overcoming adversary and finding peace within himself . Well , maybe I'm lying . The simple man was true though . How simple must a man be to use the logic , " If it moves , I kill it . " Last time we saw John Rambo he was hauled off to prison for laying waste to a redneck town . And in prison he remains . For the first five minutes , anyway . Colonel Trautman shows up to offer Rambo an Escape From New York-style ultimatum . If he goes back to ' Nam and takes photos of American P . O . W . s , he'll receive a full pardon for his crimes against the hillbillies . " Do we get to win this time ? " , he asks . " This time , it's up to you ! " Trautman says , which basically gives him licence to massacre as many baddies as possible . And massacre he does . The first movie had a body count of one . Just a single death in the whole film . And it was accidental , caused by the character's own stupidity . Whatever reality First Blood had is well and truly gone now . The biggest strength of this sequel is its rousing score by Jerry Goldsmith . The original theme is expanded and exploited , with brilliant new ones kicking in at moments of high action . It's exciting stuff and you can only imagine how poor the film would be without it . George Pan Cosmatos was widely regarded as a hack . There is nothing here to prove otherwise , but his direction is adequate , rather than exceptional . The scene where Rambo emerges from a pile of mud is one of the few moments of directorial spark . By today's standards , it's pretty simple stuff , but back in ' 85 , when the actor Ronald Reagan was still in The White House and the Cold War took it's last few breathes , it became a massive hit . It's no secret that America lost in Vietnam . And 10 years on the country still felt cheated by the government . It needed a way to get back at them and show who the boss REALLY is . So Rambo returns to kick ass . Originally written by James Cameron as a script called First Blood II : The Mission , the film was never going to be anything other than pure fantasy . And it is here that the one-man-against-the-world sub-genre started . The villains are cardboard . Steven Berkoff plays the role of a stereotypical Ruskie bad guy with no grace , or charm . His character serves no purpose other than for Rambo to kill him last . No huts , or shacks , exist for any other reason than for Rambo to blow them up . No Viet Cong shows his face and lives . It's this touch-and-go attitude that prevents the film from becoming truly engaging , or worthy . The standard three act structure is apparent and you can tell that the producers just wanted to churn out a money maker rather than anything serious . Ted Kotcheff made First Blood about an emotionally scarred man , who wanted no more than what he deserved . Shakespeare it was not , but it was a good movie , even if it didn't set the box office on fire - just everything else . Now George Pan Cosmatos takes the same character and turns him into a disturbed schizophrenic mass murderer . No human emotion , just mindless violence . Although there is room for Rambo's big speech at the end , it's not as clever , nor as moving , as is it was first time around . It sounds so very " American " and disgustingly patriotic . Still the movie takes millions and Rambo has become an historical icon . Everything about the Reagan era is is this movie . It's superficial , narrow-minded and VERY un-PC . But hey . . . it was the Eighties .
Fun , but loses its edge on repeat viewings	Herbert West ( the man who's's mansion you battle through in the Splatterhouse video games ) is an amoral and rather eccentric Doctor studying at the Miskatonic University ( the very institution which sent a doomed expedition to the Mountains of Madness ) in Arkham , Massechusetts . He has created a serum which can bring the dead back to life . Only there's a problem , the longer the subject has been dead , the more violent and murderous his resurrection will be . Teaming up with a reluctant fellow student they experiment on twice dead cats and then onto real people . But the sleazy Doctor Hill finds out and muscles in on the action only to be slaughtered by West , who decapitates him with a spade . Out of pure curiosity , West brings the head and body back to life as two separate entities . And Hill continues to screw with West's work , despite having to carry around his own head most of the time . Despite being very well made for the budget it was made on , Re-Animator doesn't have much going for it outside of energetic performances and a real enthusiasm for horror to rarely seen these days . There is no plot and events in the film only seem to happen to shock us or lead into yet another gore scene . And there lies another problem . The filmmakers are keen to give us loads of gore and entrails and while they may be gross the first time round , by the second viewing you'll be disappointed at how tame it really is . No horror is implied or suggested . The only horror there is is that which is shown on screen . The indignity of not being able to rest in peace is never once considered and the murderous corpses are not all that scary . Richard Band's score is nothing more than just alright too . It has an urgent sound to it but doesn't do much for the film and is completely free of melody or theme . In fact I'd argue that it's just the same cue played over and over . The makers are keen to make it as best as they can and you can tell that they had a blast making it . But it's just not even up to standards the genre had been set by films like Evil Dead . And , speaking of Evil Dead , the Necronomicon ( according to H . P . Lovecraft ) is located in the library of Miskatonic University . Why didn't Doctor West just use that to bring the dead back to life ? Despite being a bit above mediocre , I still look forward to the sequel and I must say that Jeffrey Combs is brilliant as West . You can always rely on him to creep you out .
Almost there , but not quite .	While certainly not one of Hitchcock's better films , Saboteur is an energetic and interesting ride nonetheless . Barry Kane ( Robert Cummings ) is an average Joe working at an aviation plant . A fire breaks out and his best friend is killed in the blaze . Incompetent Cops finger him as the main suspect and he sets off across the desert wilderness on a mission to clear his name . Along the way he meets an assortment of eccentric characters including Patricia ( Priscilla Lane ) a blonde paperweight who initially slows him down but eventually believes he's innocent and decides to help . The story takes some interesting turns and develops a good deal of mystery . But there are some weird moments and plot holes that create confusion . What is the deal with the telescope in Soda City that points to a dam ? Why the fire in the aviation plant in the first place ? Why the plot against the launching of the Navy ship ? Why is a cinema audience laughing at a serious film with no funny bits happening ? Why does Patricia pay her captors for the milk shake they got her ? In regards to the first 3 points , these may be conspiracy plots that are part of a much bigger plan that is never really mentioned . But why not ? I do hate exposition in movies but even a couple of suggestions here and there about the full story would have made a more satisfying film . It is one of Hitchcock's many man on the lam / mistaking identity / wrong guy films and works rather well in that regard . But some parts just seems rushed and as a result the films seems a bit incomplete .
An entertaining , if utterly ineffectual , load of gung-ho nonsense	As much as Peter Berg tries his hardest to make The Kingdom as gritty and hard-edged as a typical Michael Mann movie ( who produces this film ) it fails to convince since it just has to much of a Hollywood shine . The film is too polished and slick and ends up coming across as a lighter version of Syriana , only with loads of action instead of a patient political plot line . The ever present Muslim Extremists massacre loads of Americans living in a protected area in Saudi Arabia . Jamie Foxx and his gang persuade the authorities to go over there and investigate . No one is happy with letting them go but they slowly start to work out that the attack was masterminded by the evil Abu Hamza . And no , it is not the hook-handed , Muslim hate-preacher recently seen on the streets of London . It's a different character altogether . A rather poor choice of name if you ask me . There isn't THAT much going on in the movie , to be honest . But it's never really boring . Once the action really gets going it all seems to be over before you know it . The ending comes too quickly , without a decent payoff or defining moment . And what's with the nihilistic ending ? All the wannabe hardcore movies being made these days are opting for the pessimistic final moments in a vain attempt at making up for the silly , over-the-top violence that came before it . Don't get me wrong , The Kingdom does have some bloody moments to it , but when your cheering the brutal deaths of loads of ethnic people you should surely begin to question your judgement and that of the people responsible for making the movie . The Arabs are an easy target , in more ways than one . In a way , The Kingdom feels a little bit like Rambo : First Blood Part II in that a defeated and hurting USA fights back at the faceless threat and wins . Thus cancelling out any previous loss . Well , I guess that no one really ' wins ' at the end The Kingdom , it's a negative victory if any . But we are supposed to enjoy the bloodshed . Until the hardcore ending that is . It's no masterpiece , but it does prove that Peter Berg ( who has a small role as an FBI analyst near the beginning ) is maturing as a director and Jamie Foxx isn't as annoying as he has been in the past . But whoever chose Jennifer Garner to be in this movie needs to take a closer look at their casting skills .
Nice movie , no lasting appeal however	Galaxy Quest has great FX . SFX never used to matter to me much as a decent storyline is always more important . But in Galaxy Quest you get both . It is very rare that you get a movie that the whole family can watch that is actually good . The movie is so clever and sharp and witty that you wonder why more Hollywood films can't be this original . I must use that word again . Original ! You must see Galaxy Quest for all these reasons . In comedy movies I never really care about the characters but there was an exception here . The Thermians are so funny . The way they talk , walk and ? clap . The character of Brandon was my fave and he had the best sub-plot in the movie . My only gripe is that it only lasts for about 102 minutes . If it were about 15 minutes longer it would be so great . But as it is aimed at a family audience I guess they had to satisfy the parents , who didn't know how good the movie was , by making it a bit shorter . It's a shame .
Silly , patriotic nonsense . But still watchable .	Holmes smuggles a scientist out of Nazi Germany and into Britain because he wants to sell a new bomb-scope to the government . How utterly absurd , but the Brits need some new secret weapon to crush the Krauts . When he arrives in London he is promptly snatched from under the careless supervision of Doctor Watson . The culprit is none other than Moriarty ( even though he clearly died in an earlier Rathbone / Bruce adventure ) . There's plenty of the usual Holmes atmosphere ( heightened by the black and white photography ) , double-crosses and cunning within the plot but the ' modernisation ' of Holmes in a 20th century setting just does not and will not ever fit . The patriotism of it all just made me roll my eyes too many times . Especially at the end when Holmes does the now totally overused ' This other Eden , this England ' Shakespeare quote . And I bet Moriarty returns even though his off-screen ' death ' sounded pretty definite . Fun , but certainly no classic .
Absurd story saved by atmosphere .	I remember seeing the beginning of an old Rathbone / Bruce Sherlock Holmes movie a while ago that opened with a card explaining why they took Holmes out of the Victiorian Era and transplanted him into WWII . Apparently Holmes is ' timeless ' see , so that makes it alright . Well , with that logic Holmes might as well be floating around on a Space Station at some point , solving alien murders . But they only did a few , so I guess I can forgive them . This mystery has Holmes hired by the Government to find out who is behind the filthy Nazi propaganda being broadcast across Britain , frightening the public with prophecies of doom . Well , we can't have that can we ? The silly story really takes a backseat to the thick atmosphere in this one . They make truly wonderful use of shadows and darkness and I'd recommend student filmmakers to take note of this particular style as it is most effective . There is a decent twist in the end , but for such a ridiculous plot it's hardly classic Holmes stuff .
Not as good as dark crystal .	Coming a couple of years after the far more accomplished Dark Crystal this is relatively straight-forward but still a helluva lot more imaginative than any family movie of recent years . You could call it a modern fairy tale , but it's just not deep enough . And for a film called Labyrinth , it's strangely uncomplicated . Jennifer Connelly ( younger and prettier , though her acting is questionable ) stars as Sarah , a teenager who bizarrely doesn't have a boyfriend and ends up living in her own fantasy world . Her dad and stepmother go out , leaving her to babysit her baby brother . Annoyed with his crying she utters a magical spell , wishing the goblins to take him away . Sure as sugar , the Goblin King himself ( Tina Turner , oh sorry . . . I mean David Bowie ) turns up and takes away the screaming tot . In order to get him back she must solve ' The Labyrinth ' ( cue dramatic music ) and reach the Goblin King's Castle within 13 hours . Along the way she meets new friends ( of the Jim Henson variety ) in the form of Hoggle the dwarf , big , hairy and cuddly Ludo and cute little fox Sir Didymus . It's pleasant enough entertainment but there are some serious problems . The most serious of them all is David Bowie's attire . Most specifically , his trousers , they are a little revealing in the crotch department to make an understatement . You'll cringe , you'll avert your eyes , yet you'll be mesmerized . Come on , how could this have been allowed in a family movie . Plus , Trevor Jones ' score is disappointingly unmagical and the filmmakers have given in to the urge to have David Bowie crank out some dreadfully 80's tunes that stagger the action and hold up the plot . It's a shame to call Labyrinth nostalgic . But if it were made today it would be full of hollow CGI . There's something charming in practical effects and puppetry ( or is that Muppetry ? ) that no computer graphic can generate . The photography and is stunning and it captures landscape and fantasy perfectly . And all those cute Jim Henson characters are far more interesting than any Hobbit . Filmed in Panavision , the 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture looks good . But not exceptionally so . Columbia are so hyped up over their Superbit releases . And that's fine when considering newer movies . But for a film like Labyrinth we really should have a brand new , hi-def remastering . THAT would have looked super . What we have however is just a good-looking movie . There's hardly any grain , no dirt ( surprising considering the age of the print ) and perfect colors . Originally recorded in Dolby Stereo , the first DVD release was in 2 . 0 surround only . For this Superbit release Columbia have given us a full 5 . 1 track in Dolby Digital and DTS . How does it sound ? Like 2 . 0 surround . There is hardly any deep bass . It's front speaker biased , with little or no surround use and there's practically no difference between the Dolby or DTS tracks . We could have been given a full 6 . 1 track with stronger remastering of the original sound elements . How cool would that be ? As this is a Superbit , there are no extras . The original DVD release had an hour long documentary on it . But this Superbit is only slightly better in quality , so it's up to you to decide which one you want . Also , there is a Collector's Edition which includes this version plus loads more .
Rad dude , awesome , excellent . . . whatever !	One may need an acquired taste to sit through this movie . Just like one needs to love beer to be an alcoholic . It doesn't make it any less interesting , just tough to get to grips with . Shot in TV-style documentary , it is odd this should get a theatrical release , but who cares ? The movie is about a Seventies ghetto neighbourhood in L . A . and how kids turn the ruins of past architectural mistakes into something useful . . . for them . There are burnt down piers to surf through , concrete basins to skateboard in and empty pools to seize and claim for themselves . The kids are almost tribal in nature , sharing hatred towards outsiders , never splitting up and helping each other out . They have nothing in their life but skating and surfing , no future or plans . Chance comes in the form of skateboard competitions and some of the kids are catapulted to fame , while others make wrong choices and turn to drugs and partying . And that's about it , really , but it does hold your attention for 90 minutes . All the documentary clichés are here . Rapid fire cuts , grainy black-and-white shots when interviewing people and a gazillion Seventies tracks . But with such an elitist subject matter , this kind of film-making is essential to make the movie appeal to the masses , or , at least , smaller groups of people . No doubt , Trouble TV-watching , baggy pants , text message generation , middle class kids , trying to be street , will love it . Me ? I say it's good to watch once , to help understand an unavoidable culture .
Mildly entertaining no-brainer with no soul	Yes , Sahara does take place in the same universe as the monumental flop Raise the Titanic , a universe where the Titanic sunk in one piece . Keep your eyes open during the opening credits and you'll see a newspaper clipping of the ship being towed into New York . Matthew McConaughey takes over the role of Dirk Pitt from Richard Jordan ( whoever he is ) and teams up with Steve Zahn and Penelope Cruise for a film that should offer much more action and excitement than Raise the Titanic offered . It's doesn't really succeed . Dirk Pitt and his pal Al Giordino are professional divers / explorers who sneak off from their ordinary salvage duties to find a legendary ship packed full of treasure in a warn-torn part of Africa . Penelope Cruz is a W . H . O . doctor ( I could have made a joke there ) investigating a series of mysterious deaths and ends up on the wrong side of a local dictator / warlord . Naturally Pitt saves her and is rewarded with loads of foot-soldiers out to kill him . The treasure hunt / ecology plot could have been entertaining but nothing really amazing happens . It could have worked as an Indiana Jones-lite but it's completely free of any of the iconic or classic scenes that make that franchise so famous . What we get is a lightweight James Bond kind of film with no real edge or excitement . The anonymous direction doesn't help either and the whole thing seems to drag along rather than being a breathless ride . None of this is the fault of the actors . McConaughey and Zahn are watchable as always , though I would have liked to have seen William H . Macy and Delroy Lindo given more to do . Since , I've never read any of Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt novels I cannot compare but whoever adapted the novel of Sahara into the screenplay forgot to put anything resembling spectacle or epic into it . Sahara is good for a single viewing only . There's nowt in here that make you come back for more . Which is rather worrying since Paramount bought the rights to 3 of Cussler's Dirk Pitt novels . They ought to make them better than this , but it's still superior to the similarly plotted National Treasure .
Love Deuce	Tom attends a Tennis championship , with Jerry in tow as a ball boy ( or mouse ) of sorts . Cigar-smoking Butch is his rival , and is a much better player . When he realizes that Tom is out of his depth , Jerry manipulates the players into using increasingly deadly tricks against each other , without any kind of reaction from the viewing crowds . There's enough visual humor in this one to make it worthwhile and it's a welcome break from the usual chase through the generic house . I just wish that the extent of the jokes went beyond the characters batting stuff at each other and tripping over the net . Above average .
Feels like something's been cut out	At 86 minutes and half a dozen subplots not being wrapped up or developed in any way at all . For example the subplot involving John Laroquette is never given the chance to become anything . His whole presence in the movie is totally pointless and I suspect there was a whole ' Candy's wife may be cheating on him ' plot that was cut out because it just too similar Chase / D'Angelo in Vacation . We never know what happens to Richard Crenna or Rip Torn after the Regatta and we never know how the rest of the Summer Rental went . It's like the writers knew there was no plot , chucked in this Regatta crap and thought that would be a good place to end the film when it's over . And what was wrong with the popcorn Candy and Crenna eat ? I found that pretty weird . Although I have already made comparisons to Vacation I still feel like this film is good enough without being a copycat movie . It's seems more realistic and doesn't have any slapstick humor . Candy feels more like a real guy who needs a real vacation . We want him to relax but still can't help laughing when everything goes wrong . My fave scene is when he returns home to find it transformed into some kind of free-for-all Funhouse . But for a film set in Florida there is a huge lack of nice scenery and the photography isn't so cool . I wonder why Kerri Green ( who starred in The Goonies the same year ) never made another mainstream movie tho . Joey Laurence did so why not her ? If you like comedies , but hate the scatological humor that most present day comedies have , then this is a good enough escape . I miss John Candy and wish he made more movies before he died .
Interesting though rather unvivid and tame	Dracula opens very well with lavish sets and a genuine spooky atmosphere as a young lawyer named Reinfield visits the Count's Transylvanian castle to settle some business . But after this , when the story takes us to London , it seems more disjointed and vague . I don't understand what has supposed to have happened to Reinfield , why did he go mad ? If Dracula bit him then why didn't he die or become a vampire ? And the story is a bit confusing . Did Dracula plan on killing certain women when he came to London or did he just go with the flow ? Why did he come to London in the first place ? It's never really clarified . Which is a bit odd considering all of the expositional dialogue featured in the movie . Though it sounds incredibly unpurist , I did enjoy this film much more with Philip Glass's new score . The chewed up Swan Lake music at the start just got on my nerves and I feel Glass's music gave the whole film a new sense of consistency and tied it together a little tighter . I would have liked it more if it showed us the gore and killing rather than simply implying it . I know it was the ' 30s but they still could have made an effort . I see nothing that would shock even a naive ' 30s audience . And surely I am not the only one who thinks that Dracula looks a uncannily like Steven Seagal .
A crazy , but fun ride .	In the Eighties , horror flicks were all the rage . Sequels were obligatory and every year saw another Freddy , Jason , Pinhead or Michael Myers shocker . Among these were the House movies , which are a lot better than the genre reputation suggests . First and foremost , this is not strictly a horror film . There are some sprinklings of light comedy here and there and the monsters are so ridiculous that they don't really scare . It sure makes for a welcome change in a decade full of blood , knifings and slayings . Roger Cobb ( William Katt ) is a horror novelist , suffering from writers block . He can't seem to continue with his latest book , a recollection of his tour in ' Nam . The fans are eager but they want horror , not some war story . On top of all this , he is also dealing with a divorce and coping with the mysterious disappearance of his son . Depressed , he moves to his aunt's house , from where his son vanished and in which the old lady hung herself . A creepy log cabin in the mountains might be more appropriate , as Roger finds just as many distractions here . The first distraction is his neighbour Harold ( George Wendt ) , who shows up at the worst moments to hassle Roger in the Ned Flanders style . The second distraction is a little more sinister . Monsters burst out of the closet at midnight , doors in the house lead into different dimensions and he is haunted by the memories of his best friend ( Richard Moll ) , whom he betrayed back in ' Nam . Third , there is a sexy blonde , who bathes in his pool . One of the most appealing things about House is that Roger doesn't respond with any clichéd horror movie tactic - running away , falling flat on his face , hiding under the sink , etc . Instead , he buys a camcorder and tries to capture the monsters on film to convince Harold , and himself , that he is not crazy . He even manages to persuade Harold to help him catch a big raccoon , which hides out in a certain closet and only shows itself at midnight . Even at this , Harold gets scared , but not us . The film is only slightly dark and keeps a jovial mood for an hour and a half . Steve Miner ( Halloween H20 , Lake Placid ) intrigues us as much as Roger as to what the hell is going on . Ethan Wiley's script is the tiniest bit loose , but is smarter than you would think and even contains a few little touches that you might miss on the first couple of viewings . It could have been beefier and longer , but if it was , it wouldn't be as irresistibly charming .
The proof is in the pudding	If there was ever any doubt that R-Type II was nothing more than a slightly different version of R-Type then R-Type DX should lay them to rest forever . You can play this game in 5 ways . First you have the black and white Gameboy version of R-Type . And let's face it , who wants to play that ? Or you can play it in color . A wiser choice . This option also features on R-Type II ( now missing the cool underwater level seen in the arcades ) . Or you can choose to actually play the game as R-Type DX , which is a combination of both . And you'll never know it . It's a bit dull , the infinite continues don't temp me to play for hours on end and the primitive graphics of the Gameboy Color don't do justice to the usually brilliantly detailed R-Type universe .
Genesis version is actually not that great . C64 is better .	I found this game to be very difficult on the C64 . Along with busting ghosts around New York you had to manage the company's budget . The more ghosts you successfully caught ( not that easy ) the more money you got and you could upgrade your equipment and Ecto-1 . Like I said , I wasn't very good at it and the game always went very badly once Gozer came to town . The Keymaster and the Gatekeeper would find each other and then that would be ' game over ' . Knowing full well that the Genesis version is completely different , I thought I would give it a go anyway . It's not good . Instead of being a skill-based sort of RPG it's a horrid platformer with poorly designed , absurd levels and ugly characters that look like head-knockers . The managerial aspect is still there but not as fun . And why are the Proton Packs not flying out proton streams ? They fire slimy bullets instead . What ? That's not what we saw in the movies ! It's actually very similar to the Extreme Ghostbusters : Code Ecto-1 game released for the GBA in 2002 . It's a rather boring platforming shoot-em-up that makes you feel like a Ghostbuster in no way at all . I'd actually stick to the C64 version .
All in favor say ' Die '	It may well have appeared fresh and exciting back in 1987 but Lethal Weapon is soaked in so many 80s clichés it's sometimes hard to take it seriously . First of all we have the maverick cop on the edge who doesn't play by the rules but gets results . Second we have him being teamed up with a by-the-book partner . Third . . . it's all about drugs . There are countless more , from LA setting to the Vietnam vet psycho stuff and even all the way down to the deep voiced trailer guy saying stuff like ' They'll have to work together even if it kills them ' and so-forth . Opening with long travelling shot of LA , complete with an agonizingly 80s credit front , Lethal Weapon begins with the death of a porn actress , high on cocktail of white powders , who thinks she can fly . But what she really gets is a 20-storey descent to the parking lot , the fast way . I first saw Lethal Weapon on TV in about 1990 and this scene had pretty much everything cut from it , the nudity , the drugs , it's amazing people actually made sense of films back then . Anyways , before I go off on a tangent rant , the dead girl is actually the daughter of a crooked banker involved in heroin smuggling . LAPD Sargeant Roger Murtaugh is his old pal and takes the case , but not before being teamed-up with renegade , suicidal cop Martin Riggs . Together ' They don't make the rules , they break them ' and ' They'll have to survive each other first ' and ' blah blah blah ! ' Honestly , the wafer-thin plot of Lethal Weapon has truly perished with time . Bad guys smuggle heroin , cops kill them for it . There are multiple , totally absurd elements such as Riggs being a Vietnam vet despite only being about 30 at the time ( meaning he was 19 when the conflict ended ) , the rolling around with the gun firing a gun blindly but still hitting targets is hard to swallow , the martial arts showdown seems to come out of nowhere and belongs in a different film , kids recognizing tiny special forces tattoos from a significant distance and the contrived death of Murtaugh's daughter's never seen boyfriend . In fact , a LOT of this film is contrived and rather ramshackle . Shane Black IS a great writer but this film is just too underdeveloped . We never get to see the heroin or learn anything about how the villains do business . There's not any decent amount of mystery solving or police procedure and there is absolutely NO reason at all for the film being set at Christmas . There is no festive , yuletide atmosphere or Xmasy themes . Plus , with the film being set in LA , Christmas is all blue skies and sun . It adds nothing at all . What makes Lethal Weapon watchable however are the characters and the silly banter between them . Riggs and Murtaugh really seem to click with each other as pals and I think it's this that kept the sequels coming rather than the need to tell another macho action story set in LA . And I do wish that Michael Kamen never used those damn saxophones ! The score can frequently be quite jarring and annoying whenever those things start screeching . I have the limited edition score CD , but skip those tracks whenever I stick it on . But since Kamen has died in recent years I will spare him my rant over his misjudged score . Unwisely regarded as a classic , Lethal Weapon only exhibits how to weave 40 million clichés into a macho action movie . The humor is what I like best , I can leave the rest to stagnate back in the 80s , where it really belongs .
Alright , hold on tight now . It's down , down to the wire !	The first of Dalton's double-bill as 007 is a merely above-average affair . The one thing that really stops TLD from being a better film is the fact that it's just too tame . This was the last Bond film to be given a PG rating as it was clear that they couldn't appeal to the family audience any longer . With a new Bond should have come a new approach . Yes , it does feel more modern and realistic but since the script was originally designed for Moore they missed a chance at taking advantage of Bond's dark side . Thankfully , they did exactly that in Licence to Kill . Ian Fleming's story had Bond on a sniping mission , detailing every characteristic and moment of his assignment . Upon spotting the person he's been ordered to kill he discovers it's a beautiful woman and chooses to wound her instead of killing her . Wishing M to fire him for disobeying orders he comments that he must have ' scared the living daylights out of her ' . The story ended on this note . The film expands this premise and has Bond escort a defecting Soviet agent from Russia only to disbelieve his story of a Russian General going berserk . Upon investigating further he discovers a plot involving the Mujhadeen and an American Arms dealer . Despite these complications and developments , there's just not enough killing ! Without meaning to sound bloodthirsty , I just think that Bond should have laid waste to more bad guys . The script doesn't really give him a chance to . And , as a result , the film seems watered-down and too broad . Director John Glen stages and frames the action very well , as always but it's John Barry's score ( his last involvement with the series ) that gives it that extra punch . The Bond theme , so incredibly worn-out and done-to-death , is given a new spin , a faster tempo and more modern feel . Despite being about nine when I first saw it , this is the first thing I realized . They ruined a lot of potential by not taking this renewing further and not giving us a tougher film . Of Dalton's reign as 007 , Licence to Kill is definitely the superior film , but don't rule-out Living Daylights . Average it may be , but still far from being anywhere near bad .
Cool movie .	But it should have been a bit longer . 77 minutes is not enough . I have always loved Disney's animation of the Winnie the Pooh TV show and I was way excited when I first learned of this movie . 100 acre wood looks as magical as it always has done and is presented very well in this feature . The story itself is a bit childish but still manages to have balls when it has Tigger FAIL to find his family . Although I would have liked him too I respect the ending they went for . Although this film isn't to everyone's tastes ( I know it seems a little fruity a guy of 20 can like this film ) I say you should see this movie , preferably with kids . It's perfect child fodder and good entertainment . Not just family entertainment . Should be longer though .
The Pearl of Blandness	There's not a hell of a lot of mystery or suspense in this Holmes movie , I'm sorry to say . The sets , the characters and the plot are all so generic and ordinary that nothing really stands out . It begins with Holmes successfully recovering a priceless stolen pearl ( wow , what an amazing macguffin ) from a bunch of thieves and returning it to it's rightful owner . But , in a moment of arrogance , he disables the alarm at the museum when he points out the security faults and the pearl is stolen again by some arch-villain who fails to impress and probably wouldn't even say boo to a goose in real life . The usual questions and snooping around follow with Lestrade acting like a moron and Watson bumbling around in the background . I'm grateful that this one doesn't have any silly WWII sentiment in it but , once again , it is clearly filmed on Universal's medieval Europe set which looks and feels absolutely nothing like London . Did you know that I have , so far , not seen Big Ben in any one one of these Rathbone / Bruce movies . Even some stock footage spliced in there would make it just the tiniest bit more authentic . And what's the fascination with Pearls anyway ? It's just a marble made by an oyster .
Dancing Duck	Donald has woken up on the right side of the bed for a change is seriously in a great groove and plans to romance Daisy with a box of chocolates . He dances everywhere in perfect timing with a tune that we can all hear . It's one of those cartoons where actions correspond to the way the music is played and it's done very well . Donald's trip to Daisy's house is spoiled when his nephews insist on tagging along . He tries , and fails , to rid them with an ice cream bribe . Instead they manage to make him swallow a load of corn that is in the middle of popping which sends him on a wild , spastic jitterbug dance around the living room , which Daisy mistakes for genuine dancing talent . At least he ends up impressing her and getting kisses .
Little intrigue , lots of opportunity missed .	Resident Evil undoubtedly works far better on the small screen than it did at the cinema . There is no way any director ( no matter how experienced ) can bring a video game to life without sacrificing art in the process . Anderson has been here before with Mortal Kombat but injected into both movies enough competency and style to make them respectable in their own right . With Resident Evil he has given us a decent story with a touch of complication and a fair amount of suspense . My main gripe is the fact that the movie looks far too slick to be as truly disturbing as the grainy and filthy Zombie movies of the ' 70s . Plus the violence isn't all that graphic but there is still plenty of fun to be had in watching a bunch of office workers turn into the living dead and it's scary how cheaply their lives are considered by the Umbrella Corp . they work for . I'm certainly not going to work in an office for a company like that if that's what they're going to do to me . The characters are thin but not entirely one-dimensional . You do end up siding with some of them and feel urgency in their futile escape from the underground skyscraper ( shouldn't that be ' Groundscraper ' then ? ) . Milla Jovovich is cuter here than she was in Fifth Element or Zoolander but Michelle Rodriguez just plain annoys me . All I've ever seen her play is a moody Latino who frowns all the time . It's time for here to try and expand her range a bit and I wish someone else played her character . Video games will never make for classic movies . They can be mind-numbingly terrible ( Super Mario Brothers , Double Dragon ) or competent , such as this . Just turn a blind eye to the really , really bad FX at the end when a CGI monster goes on the rampage . My old Commodore 64 was capable of better graphics . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and a choice of Dolby 5 . 1 or DTS 5 . 1 soundtracks which sound great but , as a result , also serve to highlight he meaningless and clichéd Marco Beltrami / Marylin Manson ' score ' .
Action comedy ?	In a word ? no . I'd call it more of a romantic comedy but the trailer did hint at more action than eventually appeared on screen . There is a small clip of Harrison Ford pulling one of the pirates over a waterfall and he falls to his death ( ? ) . The running time of 101 minutes and the very abrupt resolution gives the impression that there was more action before someone ordered it to be cut out . I think this may have been because the producers wanted a quirky comedy-adventure when the film turned out to be a little bit tougher . This is so apparent when pirates ( the driving force of the movie ) are in it for about 15 minutes . What's left is just an okay movie . It is neither original nor clever and has no spark or bite . But it does have a few decent laughs , some cool music and nice scenery . But once more David Schwimmer proves he can only do one character and can't even do it very well . Six Days , Seven Nights is hardly groundbreaking but is an enjoyable timepasser . Don't go out of your way for it .
Well acted and involving but overall ineffectual	Problem teens are everywhere and make everyone's life hell , we know this . I would love to send all of these miserable bastards away to some fortified compound where they can never return from . But you have to think about a few things . Why are problem teens the way they are ? Most of the time it can be attributed to bad upbringing , which is really the fault of irresponsible or evil adults . So I guess that some people are just screwed from day one . Either way , they are the kinda folks I like to avoid . Is that the wrong attitude for me to have ? The ubiquitous Joseph Gordon Levitt plays Lyle , a teenager who has been sent to a juvenile mental hospital because he cracked open the skull of a kid who taunted him . While I would usually say the kid deserved it , it becomes clear that Lyle has too much aggression crammed inside him and has no way of controlling it other than the occasional blind rage or makeshift mosh-pit . While in the hospital he makes pals ( and some enemies ) with a fragile Native American kid , a no-confidence girl and another boy with manic depression ( oh , sorry . . . ' Bi-polar disorder ' ) . It's nothing particularly astonishing but it's the commitment to acting and making it all seem as real as possible that makes it so watchable . This is helped by director Jordan Melamed's documentary style and hard close-ups of actors without make up and with their honest faces and zits . There's more honesty and realism in the fighting too , which does occur at regular intervals and somehow seems more engaging than in action movies . I myself have pulverised people ( who I hated and thought really deserved it ) into the dirt only to feel huge guilt as they look up at me all bloodied and broken , their eyes watering . I assume so many of these angry teenagers put on this act of aggression and being hard to hide how sensitive they really are . It's not a big revelation I know , but it's very well done in the film . In the end it doesn't do much else than offer a balanced view of such kids . Not everyone has the power to turn their rage off , not all parents are going to be wonderful . But who says you are any better ? Maybe we could all get along better if everyone admits that they could be a better person .
Fun but clichéd Seagal actioner	A lot more effort is put into crafting this Seagal movie rather than assembling it . The photography is angled strangely and the lighting tries to make certain scenes dingy and others sinister . In this movie Seagal and Keenan Ivory Wayans go up against the Russian mafia . In doing so they produce a lot of dead bodies in action scenes that are satisfying and fun to watch . Although they are edited just a little too quickly . At first I thought this movie was called The Glimmer Man because of the stupid jackets Seagal wears . He should be arrested by the fashion police , I'm not kidding . But overall I give this movie .
Pretty boring and hardly a drop of blood	I don't know why Paramount kept on making these movies if they always cut out the violence and gore . There's hardly any of it in this film despite the high body count ! That said , this one does have a few ( a few ! ) traces of wit and intelligence . Jason doesn't look as threatening though . He's a bit to cuddly and this was made when Kane Hodder was still the best Jason . But how can he get from a sinking ship in the middle of the ocean to New York when he cannot swim ? And can someone please tell me how a ship sailing from British Columbia can end up in New York ? Now that almost an impossibility unless they go around Cape Horn and that would take weeks !
Above average old school Scooby Adventure	This entry suffers from the presence of Scrappy . It was made in the mid-eighties when Scrappy was at the height ( ! ) of his fame ( ? ) . He doesn't do much in this so it's not that bad . The story is about Shaggy ( minus the rest of Mystery Inc . ) being left a spooky mansion house in his uncles will . Conveniently said mansion is in the middle of a creepy swampland in the Deep South . The kind of place where there are always eyes watching from the trees . As soon as he arrives , Shaggy has to deal with an annoying southern stereotype sheriff , a weirdo butler who wants to get his hands on the old uncle's hidden treasure , hickabilly neighbors and the ghost of his uncle telling to leave ( then why did he give him the house ? ) . There is also an escaped ape on the loose but even though only Scooby sees him ( Shaggy doesn't believe it ) he's just a big , cuddly monkey who wants to play . The Boo Brothers are basically ghost versions of the Three Stooges . They're listed in the phone book as being experts in the busting of ghosts . This isn't a job they do well though , so Shaggy's payment at the end is a bit too generous . There are some laughs to be had and the plot is mildly interesting but too many running jokes are just plain bad . The hillbilly neighbor joke becomes very boring and could have been done without . The animation is a bit dated , though it has enough modern touches ( lens flares in car lights ) to distract you from it . And I like the dark , decaying atmosphere of the swampland . The color pallet is mostly made up of dark blues and purples ( the story takes place all in one night ) and the backgrounds are not as generic as the earlier , cheaper TV shows . For the average fan this is a worthy effort though I would just catch it on the Cartoon Network instead of forking over the cash , unless you're a Scooby completist . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 full frame , as drawn , with a Dolby Mono soundtrack that is unsophisticated but workable . The Region 2 release comes in a sturdy Keep Case but the Region 1 is still in a cruddy snapper . Extras are minimal childish fluff .
Great character drama , mediocre action film	The publicity for this film claimed that Jet Li's fight scenes were ' so intense that test audiences were leaping out of their seats ' . Well , I didn't find it to be that way . Danny the Dog ( I simply refused to call it Unleashed ) works best as a character drama with only a few silly fight scenes in between . Writer Luc Besson gave Jet Li a choice of either doing a sequel to Kiss of the Dragon or something a bit more serious . Li opted for serious and Besson wrote the script exclusively for him . With the director of The Transporter giving the orders one would expect this film really kick ass . Instead it merely smacks bum . Danny is an orphaned boy taken in by mob boss Bart ( Bob Hoskins in a role that Albert Finney , Michael Caine and Brain Cox turned down ) and forced to be a guard dog who eats raw food out of cans and is kept in a dank cellar with his favorite teddy bear . Danny is somehow trained in the deadly arts and will massacre everyone threatening his master in the blink of an eye if his steel collar is removed . When Bart is taken out in a gangland slaying Li wanders the streets until he is taken in by blind piano tuner Sam ( Morgan Freeman in one of his most surprising choice of characters ) and his step-daughter Victoria ( the oh-so-cute Kerry Condon ) . As they bond as a ( somewhat dysfunctional ) family , Danny learns , through music , what it's like to be human , have real feelings and emotions . But when Bart returns and wants his dog back ( why doesn't he just get a real dog ? ) a bloodbath is threatened . What we get is a bloody nose and that's about it . The film has a very dank and miserable feel to it . So it's only appropriate that it should be set in the most depressing city in the world ( that would be Glasgow , it chills me to even say the name ) . A lot of audiences have been puzzled and critical that everyone in the film is either American or English , but if you've ever heard a Glaswegian accent you'll understand why the filmmakers were keen to avoid it . Of this I will say no more . It sounds far-fetched but it's actually very well acted , especially by Jet Li , who as an Asian actor with English as a second language proves he's way more than a Hong Kong Fuey . Where the film fails is in the very silly and often totally unconvincing fight scenes . ' Leaping out of their seats ' my reptilian ass ! These have to be the tamest punch-ups that Cory Yuen has ever staged . Kiss of the Dragon and even the PG-13 rated Transporter have much better action than this . And why the film is rated 18 I'll never ever know . I've seen plenty of gorier , harder action films than this get a lower rating . Since hardly anyone dies and there's barely a drop of blood to be had in the whole film ( by comparison at least ) the 18-rating is completely undeserved and only helps promise something that the film ultimately doesn't deliver . In no way is it a bad film , just a bit too tame from what we've come to expect from Besson and co .
A bit boring	Since I am not American , I have no idea what a homecoming queen is and I am not familiar with their football rules . This Peanuts TV special is mainly about both so I was a little bit lost for most of it . The story has Charlie Brown struggle ( and unfairly lose ) a football match and then finally get to meet his wannabe girlfriend ( the little red-headed girl who finally see and is called Heather ) at the Homecoming Ball ( whatever that is ) . The build of dread as he approaches her is quite amusing and when he finally kisses her the reaction is brilliant . Too bad the rest of it is below par . Though the scenes with Woodstock pretending to be a TV cameraman and flying around on Snoopy ( who's ear act as chopper blades ) are typically surreal and undoubtedly the best moments .
Some fun to be had , but mainly boring .	Killer Klowns is sort of a homage to paranoid sci-fi movies of the 1950's , but lacks the shlock charm of the Blob remake which came out in the same year . The plot is absolute nonsense . Killer Klowns from , you guessed it , Out Space land in rural America in their big-top spaceship . Their motive , to snatch humans away for dipping in their poisonous cotton candy . Told you it was nonsense , but the movie knows this and doesn't waste any time with sincerity ( a fatal flaw with far too many cheapo horror flicks ) . The Klowns , in a very weird way , are quite cute . And I wasn't afraid of them . In fact , when they are not on the screen the movie gets rather boring . The main characters are total clichés with no charm . The Klowns however , are very funny ( ironic considering I hate them in real life ) . As a stupid , but slick , no-brainer Killer Klowns works fine . As the Saturday Night's main event it's best to look elsewhere . The DVD is in good-looking 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 2 . 0 sound . There are quite a lot of extras too . For fans of this movie , this DVD is priceless .
An okay cartoon	In this short Mickey , Donald and Goofy are living a sort of Gypsy lifestyle , moving from place to place in their caravan . Goofy is the driver and when breakfast is served he leaves the car driving on it's own and goes back into the caravan to eat . Well , you pretty much know what's going to happen now huh ? That's right . . . disaster . Disaster seems to follow these characters everywhere and their cartoons only ever seem to be made up of it . However , some of the contraptions and near-misses in this one are quite imaginative and bring a tiny bit of something new to something old and increasingly boring . Expect only a few mild laughs .
I don't smile in pictures	A photographer goes to Pinkstone National Park to take pictures of pretty scenery . But when he fails to donate any amount of money to the donations box at the entrance , the Pink Panther feels obliged to make his trip hell . Again it's a thin set-up for pranks and games of outsmarting each other , but Pinky does play enough clever tricks ( like the one with the revolving bridge ) on the photographer to make it worthwhile . The ending is predictable and some of it is uninspired but it's overall an above average Pink Panther cartoon . I still don't understand why Pinky swallowed that box full of flash bulbs . Did he think they were marshmallows or something ?
No laughs	Out in his garden , Donald builds a huge dog bath machine with loads of pulleys and scrubs . Why he would want to subject Pluto to this behemoth instead of washing him normally I don't know but it's obviously Pluto ain't gonna be up for this . The dog himself is snoozing in his nearby kennel and Donald must trick him into going into the bath with a rubber bone on a string and then a puppet of a kitten . Pluto doesn't fall for it and the highly expected ending of Donald falling into it proves true . Only he's too happy that his craftsmanship has actually worked to be annoying . It's not that funny but the vivid and inventive animation makes up for it .
Would sink to the bottom of the ocean without Latifa or Fallon	You can't move for sequels , prequels , spin-offs and remakes ( or re-imaginings ) these days . Hollywood is suffering a real dry spell when it comes to new blood as most stuff we get now is from previously released material . Some remakes can be impressive ( Dawn of the Dead , Texas Chainsaw Massacre ) and others can be downright pointless ( Alfie ! ) . Taxi is an obscure choice . The original French version was written by Luc Besson in 21 days out of pure boredom as he waited for Columbia to green light The Fifth Element . It was an okay , silly action movie that spawned 2 sequels itself . While it's a mildly popular film it's hardly the kind of thing that warrants an American remake . How many Americans ( or anyone outside of France ) cared for the original Taxi ? As ramshackle as it is , Taxi NYC still seems to hold together thanks to the energetic performances of Queen Latifa and Jimmy Fallon . They do what the can with the limp material and are capable of duping you into believing that the movie is better than it really is . What's so bad about it ? Well , the plot is non-existent and is really just a set-up for a couple of brief chase scenes featuring Latifa's suped-up Taxi . Director Tim Story tries to copy the easy-going pastel-colored design and liberated use of widescreen photography of the original as well as keeping the speed of the chases as fast as he can but the stuff in between is so dated and his direction feels like the kind of quality film-making you'd expect of Rush Hour 86 . Plus , the sexuality of the original film has been erased . In France this would have been called harmless but in America they call it pornography . It's hard to give this film a bad review as there is at least one good laugh per scene but the cheap , cruddiness of it prevents it from being anything more than a one-time only rental that won't really hold up upon repeat viewings . Trust me . The DVD is in great looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with good enough Dolby 5 . 1 sound . The sound design is hardly anything to write home about so don't expect to . The DVD I watched ( Region 2 ) had an extended version of the film that ran 6 minutes longer . But there was nothing particularly racy in this version that would have denied the film the pleasure of being PG-13 . Let's hope they don't sequel this one .
Quite good	There are six scenes in this movie and four of them manage to be worth it . The other two . . . boring . First of all a painter draws a really crappy nude portrait of a generic blonde . Obviously this leads to sex and anal . It's dull . In the second scene the painter and his sleazy agent ' audition ' a gorgeous model ( Eva Black ) by giving her a DP . Third , the painter goes to a lawyer's office ( Sylvia Sun ) for some reason and they do sex and anal . Then he and his sleazy agent go to another lawyers house and give her a DP and double anal ( which is very cramped for those guys and you can see them laughing ) . Fifth , the 2 lawyer women meet up and do lesbian sex for some inexplicable reason ( BORING ) . Last the painter , his sleazy agent and a couple of friends meet up at an art gallery do give the owner and the curator ( Inesa and Mimi ) vigorous DPs . And then it ends . It was mostly good .
A series of peanuts sketches	There is no plot or ongoing story in this Peanuts special . It seems more like an animated version of several of Charles Schultz's ( who gives us an introduction to the show ) Peanut's comic strips . At least there is some variety at the very least . Some of the stories include Peppermint Patty being duped into graduating from Dog Obedience School believing it to be a Private School , the kids fussing over undone homework , Lucy throws away Shroder's piano and Chuck ends up in hospital . It's mildly amusing stuff but the changing stories will probably make it end being suited more for repeat viewings .
Okay , not too exciting	The main problem here is that the story focuses WAY too much on Robin . And I've never really been a fan of him . Batman practically has a cameo role in this movie . Mr Freeze is a sympathetic villain and he does set up some provoking situations for the characters but I still wanted more action and less talk if you know what I mean . Don't get me wrong . It's a thousand-million times the movie that Batman & Robin was but . . . not wholesome or entertaining enough to get any special notice . The animation is fine and the brief return of Danny Elfman's Batman theme is appreciated though I struggle to find any real reason to suggest this ' un . Only for Batman completists . The DVD is in slightly tinny Dolby Stereo and is in fullscreen . The laserdisc was in 1 . 66 : 1 and I would have appreciated it if Warner presented this DVD in that aspect ratio if it were intended by the director .
Dumb , brainless action but fun in a way	This movie only lasts for barely 89 minutes . This makes me wonder if anything was cut out of the movie in the editing room . I think there was when I watch the film . It could have been so much more . What's left is a very brief and entertaining movie about a prison break . With very little Firestorm . Many people have said that Howie Long's performance in this film is quite poor . I think that he did a fine job . I can honestly say his performance is totally adequate . William Forsythe is quite a decent villain too . Neither hammy nor campy . I'm glad he was in the movie . But I'm not glad the film was a flop . It would have been a big hit if it was longer and had more plot . You can't call a film FIRESTORM and have only a few seconds worth of fire in it . I don't know what has been cut from this film but it has damaged it severely . Chris Soth is the only person credited with writing this film but rumor has it that Graeme Yost actually wrote the first draft but used his affiliation with the of the WGA to take if off after they hashed his script around too much . Although it is bare-boned and anorexic it is still a cool film to watch .
Mild , entertaining distraction	There's lots of clichés and stereotypes to endure when watching a high school movie . For the most of it , The Perfect Score manages to avoid most of these clichés though the characters are a bit stereotypical . There's the brainy kid , the rebel , the stoner , the loser , the jock and the good guy . Hardly a breathtaking assortment of originals eh ? But their plan to steal the SAT scores and their interaction together are what make this movie worthwhile . The unimaginative marketing for this movie claims it to be Ocean's 11 meets The Breakfast Club . But the actors are carrying the movie , doing the best they can with weak material , rather than the ' wild ' premise . I especially liked Roy , the stoner and narrator as he got the most back story and had more a character arc than the rest of them . And it was pleasant to have the lovely , oh-so-cute Erika Christensen though I'm not too fussed about Scarlett Johansen ( she looks like a teenage version of my mother ! ) . A non-Shaggy , but still manic , Matthew Lillard has a small role as a concerned big brother . You'll not remember it 5 minutes after the credits role but for a non-threatening , easy-going movie The Perfect Score fits nicely . You could do a helluva lot worse . And what else do you expect from an MTV movie ? The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with lackluster Dolby 5 . 1 , though to be fair it mostly a dialogue-driven movie . There are a bunch of fluff features for those who care .
Good mystery spoiled by sub-par acting .	Holmes and Watson are attending an Occult debate in Canada ( since WHEN were they interesting in that , never mind travelling thousands of miles to be a part of it ? ) when the wife of one of the spokesmen is slaughtered by a mysterious phantom in the nearby village of La Mort Rouge ( The Red Death ) . Holmes and Watson are dismissed from having any involvement in the case but when a delayed note from the dead woman reaches them , begging for help , Holmes decides that it is his duty to interfere . It's a bit longer and a bit more substantial than most of the Rathbone / Bruce movies but it's obvious that it doesn't extend to the supporting cast , who are , without a doubt , really bad actors . The first scene in the village tavern is like watching a teen soap . And one of the actors , who plays an actor , is so convincing in one disguise yet utterly hopeless when playing himself . How topsy-turvy is that ? The atmosphere is forged of fog , spooky mansions and a general feeling of isolation . It's my favorite kind of atmosphere and certainly fits a Sherlock Holmes mystery even if it IS set in Canada and in the 1940s . But there are some nice shots in here . Not the best of the bunch , but never intolerable . The sentimental ' Canada ' speech at the end is ludicrously tacked on however . And you never really get to know what his last words are since the music drowns it out . Anyone have any ideas ?
I don't get the title	Donald and Goofy go to some lake for a quite day of sitting around in a boat . Have you ever know of any of Donald's attempts at nice days to work out ? Well , this time round the torment is not all that imaginative . First of all Goofy swallows a frog ( about the billionth time Goofy has swallowed something that drives him crazy ) and is bothered by a nasty spring while Donald's outboard motor either won't start or rips the ramshackle boat apart . It's only slightly imaginative and the mayhem slightly inspired . Donald's done better than this and the only real laugh comes right at the end .
He really ISN'T real you know !	In European countries the annual gift-giving ' character ' of Saint Nicholas is more commonly known as Sinter Klaus , a sort of colloquial term . This Sinter Klaus was changed to Santa Claus for English-speaking countries where he adopted the role of the more generic character of ' Father Christmas ' . Since the dawn of Xmas Commercialism the Santa image has been used by pretty much everyone to sell their crappy products . THIS is how kids in modern society are introduced to a such a ridiculous fantasy figure . Why do any parents feed their kids this nonsensical crap ? Imagination is fine . But lying to them about something that a 5-year-old should be able to see through is stupid . That said , as purely a fantasy movie , The Santa Clause is quite amusing . But maybe a bit too obnoxious to be a Xmas Classic . It was only made to cash-in on Tim Allen's Home Improvement success ( and directed by a Home Improvement director ) on the Disney Channel ( which is even referenced rather unsubtly ) . I suppose it was a lucrative idea , but since I believe Tim Allen is completely talentless it's not really his own success . Santa Claus sells . Not Tim Allen . That's why all his other movies have been complete failures . Allen plays the curiously initialled Scott Calvin , a man who accidentally kills Santa on Xmas Eve . Once he puts on the dead man's jacket he becomes the new Santa and is whisked away to the North Pole . Over the next year he undergoes a transformation from ordinary guy to fat , jolly fellow with a big , white beard . Much to the shock of his ex-wife and baffled boss Peter Boyle ( who would later star in the sequels as Father Time ) . I know that this is strictly a movie for kids but even before I reached double digits I questioned the logic behind ' Santa ' . Even the movie lacks basic sense-making . Why would anyone doubt the existence of the movie character Santa Claus ? Who do they think delivers free gifts to their children every year ? It doesn't add up ! If you show this to your kids and back up the lunatic conspiracy that this junk is real then shame on you . If you tell them that it is a load of crap and that the film is strictly make-belief then bravo !
Ambitious and well-intentioned , but ultimately a misfire	Fuelled with the noble ambition of bringing classical music to a wider audience , especially children , Fantasia succeeds and fails in equal amounts . Some of it works , some it bores . It could have made a perfect 85 minute movie if the crap was cut out . The first segment is enough to put you off completely . We have to suffer blips and bloops twinkling across the screen as acid-trip visuals match the music that is being played ( Toccata and Fugue in D Minor ) . Kind of like turning on the spirograph-like visuals on Windows Media Player . This is a bad way to introduce the film and it's techniques . I can only imagine the audience of the time watching it and thinking ' What the hell is this ? ' The three good segments in the movie are the story of the Dinosaurs to the music of The Rite of Spring , the over publicised Sorcerer's Apprentice , The Nutcracker Suite and A Night on Bald Mountain . All effect a wonderful atmosphere that is so lacking in modern animation . Segments featuring dancing Alligators romancing fat hippos ( The Pastoral Symphony ) or the ' meet the soundtrack ' interstitial are yawnfests with pretty much nothing happening at all , I'm sorry to say . The animation is always top-notch however and very vivid as Disney cartoons usually are . But ultimately , Fantasia is a mixed bag that not a lot of people will like or appreciate . Still worth checking out though .
Quack !	In this cartoon the Pink Panther is a quack medicine salesman who turns up in an old western town to flog some placebo vitamin pill that apparently gives you superhuman energy . But no one's buying it , quite literally . That is until some exhausted dude comes along and is so energised by it that he decides to rob the 1st National Bank and then the 2nd , 3rd etc . Blaming Pinky for this mess , the Sheriff makes him a deputy and orders him to clean it up . Some mild and not very funny mayhem follows . Some of it will make you laugh , or just grin , but it's pretty much a below average adventure for Pinky .
The Superman movie . . .	. . . with Batman as a guest star . This 60-minute ' feature length ' show was put together from 3 separate 20-minute episodes of the Superman Animated show . Bruce Wayne and his alter-ego are in Metropolis on business . Guests they certainly are , in both senses . The bulk of the time sticks with Superman stuff . The Joker has figured out a way to kill Soupey ( that darn Kryptonite ) and asks Lex Luthor for a billion dollars to pull it off . Thus , a plot involving Batman and Superman beating henchmen , escaping death traps and flying through the night sky follows . It is rather amusing and the scenes where Kent and Wayne see through each other's identities is cool . But there's no great plot to get involved in and it ends a bit abruptly . Gotta love that Joker though . Overall , one of the weaker Batman entries , only just rises above Sub-Zero , which I regarded as the worst . See Mystery of the Batwoman or Mask of the Phantasm instead .
Nighty night	Donald is planning an early night in an effort to get up early the next day . But first he cannot get comfortable in his bed and then the ticking of the alarm clock gets on his nerves and he just can't sleep . The annoyances escalate and eventually Donald goes completely berserk . I admit I did laugh a few times at the start of this cartoon but it's a total one-joke affair . It became pretty unfunny rather quickly and my attention started drifting after his bed acted up for about the 86th time . Nah , there were some moments of good humor but overall I wasn't too impressed with this cartoon at all , despite the amusing beginning . And why is Donald living in a different house every time we see him ?
Say cheese	Donald decides to ditch hunting in favor of nature photography . A noble choice indeed . But when he heads out into the wilderness he is crestfallen when he discovers that most animals don't want their picture taken . Moreso when he finds out that they are all laughing at him behind his back . Annoyed with the lack of cooperation from the woodland creatures , Donald focuses ( pun intended ) on a red-headed wood-pecker . The usual game of out-witting each other begins . Can you guess who wins and who ends up with their new camera broken ? When Donald rushes out to buy a shotgun the cartoon fades out , so we never see if he finally got his prey . Elmer Fudd never did . It's not a very ambitious or original cartoon but it still has its laughs .
Better than the sequel	Rings is the bridge between The Ring and The Ring 2 . In the six months between the 2 films the copy of the infamous videotape made by Rachel has multiplied many times ( still no explanation as to how people know they're going to die ) and it's become such an urban legend that there is a website devoted to it . Jake , the unfortunate high school kid at the start of The Ring 2 , has watched the videotape in order to save the life of one of his so-called friends , thus taking on board the responsibility of making someone else watch it in 7 days or die by Samara's fright . Initially Jake is intrigued and is offered a glimpse into the bizarre world of post-videotape viewing that we only saw thru Rachel's eyes in the first . Nothing is explained in any greater detail but the paranormal universe Jake falls into is fleshed-out more and is highly spooky . The short even manages to outdo The Ring 2 by giving us a couple of frights . I don't care how ridiculous the movies are , the image of Samara climbing out the well will ALWAYS be spooky . Anyone who has seen The Ring 2 will already know what becomes of Jake and his would-be girlfriend Emily ( the one he forces to watch the tape ) but if you're a fan of the films then this is essential viewing . If you've yet to see The Ring 2 then it's the perfect introduction .
Outdated	Well , obviously a silent film from 1928 is going to be old-fashioned but I mean the humor isn't all that funny anymore . Slipping on banana skins ? ( Has anyone really ever done that ? ) Falling into cream cakes ? Who eats these cream cakes ? In this one L & H are waiters employed for a swanky dinner party . Would you trust them to not cause chaos ? And that is exactly what happens . There are some laughs and some moments of good physical comedy but it's not a classic . It was later remade ( better and funnier ) as an extended opening to their 1940 movie A Chump at Oxford .
Enjoyable , but dated and childish	It's weird . This film is so juvenile but the throw in one ' fck ' so it has a PG-13 rating so people don't think it is too childish . Although there is some obvious dubbing of more profanity . Listen to Bacon say ' Motherhumper ' . What is that supposed to mean ? The idea behind the film is interesting as some scenes and events are quite entertaining but the execution of most of it really lame and amateur . The dialogue is quite bad throughout . Especially in the explanation of the worms origination . How did they get here ? ' It doesn't matter ' , one of the characters says . Wow ! Great imagination there . They don't even bother to give us an explanation . Kevin Bacon and Fred Ward are a great duo . Although the characters they play hate their lifestyles it seems pretty cool to me . Although I do realize it was made in 1989 it seems very 80's . The girlfriend of Kevin Bacon is entirely responsible for this . She kind of annoyed me too . Her attempts at being smart and witty just do not work . But Michael Gross was cool as Burt . I like how he is gung-ho without being irritating . It's hard to be gung-ho without getting on my nerves . Also , the smart-ass little kid who always whines is funny . The death scenes could have been a little more graphic but the fast pace of the plot after it gets going makes up for it . This film is nowhere near as good as or enjoyable as its sequel but if its on TV give it a chance . Just remember the sequel is better .
Look who's talking	Tom is trying to impress a female cat by grooming his whiskers , offering Jerry as a gift and trying his damnedest to be smooth . But it doesn't work and the girl tells him to take a hike . Not discouraged , Tom fabricates a sophisticated-looking suit out of an old hammock and tries once more . This time she falls for him and they start to play around . Obviously Jerry is going to ruin it for him and end up with the gal himself . What's weird about this cartoon is that Tom and Jerry actually talk , which is not something I thought they ever did until that awful movie in 1992 . Either way , it's still a rather funny short .
Not a lot of heart in this .	There was so much potential in the premise for Dragonheart . It could have been taken many steps further if the production team and writers genuinely cared about the film that they were making . Unfortunately , they weren't and could only be bothered in hashing together a quick and easy movie with no substance . I'm not sure what the pitch was to Universal but it seems like a bunch of C-list producers and writers felt like making Braveheart . . . for kids . Only with a Dragon instead of William Wallace . The plot is so simplistic that it really could be accurately summed up as ' bad king nasty to villagers , knight and dragon help ' . Whoa , slow down , man . I don't think I can comprehend so much in a small space of time . Rob Cohen is hardly an artistic director but the action and framing are below even his meagre standards . There are some nice shots here and there but the rest of the film looks incredibly fake thanks to the truly terrible production design . When you take away all of that , all you are left with is a film with a CGI dragon . But in the 11 years since this was released the standard of such effects has improved drastically . Draco the Dragon looks just a little bit too dated , though he is still as cute and lovable as he always was . The problems with the film extend even to the extras . It's bad enough that such talented actors are given such rotten dialogue to work with ( why none of them requested to tweak it a little bit is beyond me ) but I am assuming that no one bothered to give the villagers in the background any instructions before rolling . You have no idea how distracting it is . Another potential thrown away is the religious element . I guess that no one involved in making the film wanted to offend any kind of faith and erased as much religion from the film as possible . It doesn't even clarify that it's set in Britain either . There are some flippant remarks to Camelot ( conviniently just a few miles down the road from any point on the map ) but almost the whole film was shot in Romania and the accents are all over the place , as usual . The one , major , plus-point of the movie is Randy Edelman's glorious score . It's the only decent score he's ever composed in his entire career but it's simply amazing . Well worth hunting down the CD for , I assure you . Dragonheart is just too tame and tepid to make any kind of lasting impression . There too many faults to forgive . It's better than Eragon , but nowhere near the beauty of Dragonslayer .
Sympathy for the devil	Though this film is brutally honest about Aileen ' Lee ' Wuornos ' crimes it does provoke some sympathy for her . Yes , she does kill many people ( all men ) but when you consider how many men battered her and raped her all through her life , even as a child , it's no surprise she became so psychotic . And I don't think it's exactly fair that she got the death penalty . Surely it would have been best to help a woman who lived her entire existence in the dregs of society ( which is surely to blame for sending her mad ) than executing her . Focusing entirely on Lee instead of the police investigations following her ( there is a TV movie from the mid-90s that does exactly this if you're more interested ) , we see her straggle from thinking about suicide , hooking up with lonely , naive Selby ( Christina Ricci ) , killing in self-defense and finally killing for revenge / money . Charlize Theron completely vanishes as she brings her take on Lee ( her full name is never mentioned in the film ) to the screen . She sure deserved her Academy Award and Christina Ricca ( who is very cute here ) is also very good . However , for a lesbian couple I just didn't see any real feeling between them . It annoyed me how fast the film moved and there are not really many quiet moments for these two characters to bond in any way . Yes , they proclaim their love for each other but I just didn't see it . There was too much shouting and screaming . There are no surprises in the film , as we all know how it ends anyway . But some of Lee's killings are harsh , compelling and even ironic . The overall effect of the film isn't so long-lasting on me though . It's shot and lit like a TV movie and Lee's heavy judgment at the end of the film is played down . For a film that is slightly biased to her point of view it's annoying that her unfair trial and life are not exploited just a little bit more for us to gain a little extra insight into the making of a ' monster ' . Keep a lookout for Kane Hodder as an undercover cop near the end . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 sound and some slight extras .
Seen it already .	In this short Bugs Bunny joins the circus as an acrobatic bunny and enrages Bruno the Bear , the circus ' main attraction . Bruno proceeds to humiliate Bugs , opening Pandora's box . Because you do NOT mess with Bugs . Much like the earlier High Diving Hare , the laughs in this short come from the various ways Bugs can make Bruno fall from high heights by outsmarting him . It's a bit too much of a deja vu . Plus Bruno the Bear isn't really a formidable adversary and Bugs all too easily tricks him into stupidness . Bugs has been funnier than this .
Mercifully scaled down	Look , I'll be honest with you . I think that Kevin Smith is the anti-Christ . His films in recent years have been dismal . I found Dogma to be one of the worst movies ever and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was made to appeal to the lucrative stoner / Generation X market who think that films like this are ' da bomb ' . Sigh , I remember the days when people actually spoke correct English and we really need another World War to thin out their ranks a little . The aforementioned movies only make them believe it's funny to be hopeless losers that they are . It seems that Kevin Smith is incapable of writing a movie that isn't soaked in f-words or pee and fart jokes . Clerks II is NO exception , but he's reined in the stupidity and added enough real human drama to make it bearable for the rest of us . The store from the first movie has burnt down due to Randal's incompetence and he and Dante are forced to work in Mooby's , a Cow-themed fast-food restaurant with the lovely Becky ( the utterly gorgeous Rosario Dawson , who I would do 86 ways ) and Elias an ultra-Christian who seems to be an exaggerated cross between Rod AND Tod Flanders . I imagined the whole movie would be nothing more than them having inane conversations and swearing a lot while Jay and Silent Bob sell weed to the kiddies in the parking lot . And while we do get this there was , surprisingly , a bit of real story in there too . Dante is about to get married to a gorgeous woman who adores him ( but only because she has given up on the shallow , good-looking men ) and is leaving NJ forever the next day for sunny Florida . Despite the fact that their lives go nowhere , Randal really doesn't want him to go and would-be true-love Becky tries to convince him that he's fooling himself . It's the dilemma of finally being able to move on in life with a future of mock-happiness or making the most of what's right in front of you that elevates this higher than the crude JASBST and the wildly over-rated Dogma . But don't think for a minute that this film will not have extensive conversations on ass-to-mouth ( Becky likes it ! ! ! ) , comparisons of Star Wars to Lord of the Rings ( or Nerd vs Nerd in other words ) or arguments of non-racist racist words ( Porchmonkey ? Never heard of it ! ) or a man raping a donkey for the viewing pleasure of drunken idiots . And do look out for the ' Who's Your Buddy ' Jesus on Jay's T-shirt . Although he does write some good scenes and his work in comic-books is brilliant ( Bluntman and Chronic , read it ! ) I ' m still not convinced of Smith's ability as a director . One superficial and completely pointless dance number doesn't make up for the endless static shots of inside a fast-food joint , but at the very least it's slicker and more professional than Dogma , a film I will never forgive for its infinite rubbishness .
The dumbest Bond plot of all .	Bond fakes his death to become a ninja and stop SPECTRE from profiting from WWIII after a series of space-jackings . What the hell ? There's not many actions scenes . Sure there's the helicopter dogfight and a couple of chases . But not much else . Women are objects , fisticuffs are plentiful and plot developments hokey . YOLT has not a chance in hell of being taken seriously . I mean what's the deal with that big metal space shark that gobbles up US and Soviet rockets ? The physics of it coming back down to earth standing straight up are laughable . And of course , the bad guy lair just HAS to be in an active / inactive volcano . And nobody knows it's there even though it must have taken a million men and 86 gillion parts to build . But never mind about that . Like before , the finale has all of Blofeld's men ( that's the ORIGINAL Dr . Evil for all you kiddies ) dressed in the same colored outfit fight the good guys , who are dressed in a different colored outfit . So it's really easy for brain-dead audiences to tell who's winning amid the incredibly fake fighting and blowing up . Between the mind , short-lived and sporadic action scenes , Bond does loads of plodding around , investigating , making minor discoveries . Not much excites or interests . It does have pretty photography and some nice scenery . But , in my opinion , it's a below average Bond adventure .
Hold your applause	In this cartoon the Pink Panther is practising his own theme on a violin at home . He fancies himself as a bit of a professional musician and sneaks into a grand concert of Beethoven's 5th Symphony . His various attempts at hijacking the orchestra into playing The Pink Panther theme fall flat as the overzealous conductor goes crazy at him . The jokes mainly come from them outsmarting each other . Only some of them are imaginative but the rest is not that funny . A pretty average cartoon overall , I'm afraid . In the end , after his theme takes over , the only person in the audience is Henry Mancini . Who is obviously applauding .
A punch in the belly	The Pink Panther has invented some kind of pink cocktail and is making a presentation of how wonderful it is . But a green asterisk has planted itself upon his logo and refuses to budge . Obviously peeved at such interference with such an annoying thing that lessens the ' pinkness ' of his punch the asterisk and Pinky resort to an imaginative war of wits that usually ends up with Pinky changing color or being beaten up by the asterisk's older brother ( or something ) . Eventually he gives up and his diluted green punch just ends up tasting rancid . It's a very strange premise for a cartoon but it is actually quite funny with some amusing gags .
Worth one viewing only	I liked this movie . It portrayed teenagers and college students in a far more subdued manner than normal and didn't animate any characters to the point of stupidity ( IE Stifler is not in this movie and no one ' does it ' with a dog covered in wedding cake ) . Almost everyone in is disconnected in some way and have feelings that do not show . It's a character driven movie that works thanks to delicate acting and atmospheric direction . I found the strobing scene to be particularly interesting , especially in retrospect now that I know the ( pretty surprising ) plot twist . Katie Holmes , though not remarkable , gives her role enough life to make the movie work but still cannot separate from her Dawson's Creek part . Only as the movie draws to a close does she really provoke any emotion from the audience . It's a difficult character to play but she just about makes it . The script is pretty weak but it's delivered in a deliberately empty way . We almost feel abandoned watching it . The movie is sparsely populated and makes us feel alone . It creates an interesting atmosphere that is the movie's saving grace . Without this edge it would be a waste of time . It's worth a rent , but only for viewing alone . The DVD has Audio commentary by Director / Writer Stephan Gaghan and Cinematographer Matthew Libatique , brief documentary , Deleted scenes with Director's commentary and a trailer . It is presented in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and is in Dolby 5 . 1 .
Disappointing	I was so looking forward to this game , with the great reviews and cool-looking graphics and all . But I honestly can't see what all the fuss is about . For a start , the game is just too damn short and too damn easy with nothing much to make you continue playing . I don't buy into all this ' unlockable ' crap and the bonus stuff in New Super Mario Bros . isn't all that interesting anyway . I'm not going to waste my time doing over a level I have already completed just for the sake of unlocking a new background . Only a sad , pathetic loser would do something like that . And the so-called ' ton ' of mini-games is a bold-faced lie since most of them are the exact same ones featured on Super Mario 64 DS and only about 2 aren't . There's only about half the amount featured on SM64 DS too . So there's another wasted opportunity . Maybe it's because I played this so soon after the GBA version of SMB3 or maybe it's because it's just so damn short and never really gets going , but I was just so let down by New Super Mario Bros . The giant Mario thing is cool but it lasts for 5 seconds . I do wish the flying ability from SMB3 was featured . Or that the game was simply worth the money . Don't believe the hype . Only pick this game up cheap ! Graphics A Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Waste of money	In that cartoon Donald Duck is visiting some kind of fair ground and stumbles upon a penny arcade . Inside he spots one of those slide-show machines with a film of Daisy stripping . He puts in his 1c only for the machine to break down before Daisy gets naked . Next he tries his luck at one of those awful claw-grab machines only for it to totally not work ( come on , they NEVER work ) . Which , only irritates him further . Finally , Donald comes upon a model plane on a gimble rig . For 1c it looks like a lot of fun and Donald sure enjoys mimicking a fighter plane . But thew ride only lasts for a few seconds . Angry , Donald bashes the plane which soon malfunctions and goes mental on him . Funnier than it sounds , honest .
Not quite sh ! t creek !	Tom , Jerry ( ! ) , Billy and Dan are four young kids who fantasise about going on a treasure hunting adventure in the wilderness of the Pacific Northwest . A legendary rascal called D B Cooper has botched a million dollar heist and left the money in the mountains . The kids make a pact that some day , somehow , they will find that money . Years later , Billy is killed in an accident and the rest reunite for his funeral . Tom ( Dax Shepard ) is now a sleaze , who cannot hold a steady job to save himself . Jerry ( Matthew Lillard ) is bored to death in a dull office and by a nagging girlfriend and Dan ( Seth Green ) has become a very wimpy doctor . Their childhood sense of curiosity and adventure has been extinguished . That is until they happen upon D B Cooper's treasure map in their old tree house gang hut . Desperate for one last act of stupidity before acknowledging their thirties , the trio sets off on a rafting / camping trip , with D B's treasure as their ultimate goal . Of course , many obstacles and disasters prevent them from getting there so easily . Sounds like a grown-up Goonies ? It is . And it's loads of fun . Without A Paddle is funny and exciting , with non-stop action and set pieces . Great widescreen photography , pretty scenery and a particularly gentle score make for perfect escapism . There is not one second of boredom . Shepard , Green and Lillard ( as always ) are brilliant together . Chemistry is difficult to conjure up with three main characters , but they pull it off perfectly . As an Indiana Jones-lite coming-of-age comedy , with the tiniest bit of character drama , Without A Paddle succeeds in every area . But not really a film you would want to watch again .
Little horrors	While enjoying a calm , stress-free day , Donald is sent a postcard from his sister Dumbella , saying that her sons Huey , Duey and Louie will be coming to stay for a while . Now these are not the well behaved kids from Duck Tales that you might be used to . No , they are little rapscallions who proceed to do nothing but lay waste to Donald's house . Donald desperately tries to keep them under control and even consults a child psychiatry book in a futile attempt to maintain order . It doesn't work and only inspires them to torment him further . This cartoon is proof that Donald's sole purpose in his existence is to live it in a state of perpetual rage .
Not as funny as Caddyshack	In this cartoon Donald is out on a coastal golf course for a relaxing eighteen as his nephews caddie for him . Everything would have worked out fine if he were not so bossy . Huey , Duey and Louie play tricks on him to throw him ( such as swapping his clubs for nets and giving him phony balls ) off his game . And that's about as creative as the cartoon gets . Donald Duck cartoons are so easy to set up and seem to spend the entire eight minutes knocking down . You can tell that whatever Donald is involved in is going to end up in disaster but sometimes it can be quite inventive . This one just seems to be going through the motions . Why can't he and his nephew cooperate for a change ?
Fun , if senseless	In this cartoon Donald and Goofy are out in the countryside pasting up posters for tomato soup . It's a rather odd place to be doing such a thing considering such ads are usually pasted over the plywood boards of an abandoned shop in a dreary ghetto , but never mind . Goofy decides to paste a poster onto a windmill ( a rather odd choice ) but ends up getting frustrated by the twirling blades . Donald is pasting a poster on a farmhouse but is tormented by a tin can-eating goat ( cartoons often portray goats as can-eaters-is this for real or is it just a myth ? ) who eats the posters as soon as he puts them up . After some effort they both overcome their obstacles and succeed at their task . Now all the country animals can appreciate the tomato soup ad . Weird .
Cradle will rock	The Pink Panther is sleeping in the treetops in a secluded part of the forest when a noisy man and his dog set up their camp below him for the night . The camper is happy to hog all the comfort for himself and leave his dog out in the cold but his snoring is keeping Pinky awake . Obviously less than pleased at this intrusion , Pinky takes it upon himself to play tricks on the camper as he sleeps , leaving the dog to rescue him . Each time the camper awakens he thinks it's the dog that has sabotaged his sleep and scolds him for it . Promptly going back to sleep and snoring loudly . Not a particularly imaginative set-up but has a good reasonable amount of laughs to keep it going .
Could have been great	Robert Zemeckis should know better than to make this the way he did . The scenes on the island are very cool and attractively shot but why on earth was this film made in 1 . 85 : 1 ? Zemeckis did Forrest Gump , Contact and What Lies Beneath in 2 . 35 : 1 so why not this film ? The beautiful island location would have been so much cooler if it were . But still it beats ' The Beach ' any day . The starting is a little slow but the sudden decompression of the FedEx plane is quite nerve-wracking . This is the point is which the movie really gets going and the crash is incredible . It's hard not to wince when Hanks is injured repeatedly as he struggles for survival and the sound effects of it really make you squirm . The creation of Wilson as Hanks hurts his hand is quite cool too . But it's heartbreaking when Wilson floats away . It really was the saddest moment of the film . Other cool moments include a scene in which a surfacing whale opens it's eye and looks at Hanks and when he eats a live fish . Yuck ! But the ending to the film is awful . Suddenly cutting to ' 4 years later ' when Hanks was on the island is bad enough . But when the movie goes from a ship rescuing him to ' 4 weeks later ' is goes from bad to worse . The events of him being rescued and coming back to civilization and being rehabilitated and repaired are just skipped . He goes from being a cave man to civilised in an obscenely short space of time . For a man who was alone on an island for 4 years ( unless Wilson counts ) he sure does adjust back to normal very quickly . And Zemeckis simply doesn't know how to end the film . We are forced to sit thru scene after scene of Hanks long after the island is gone . The wrap-up of his affair with Helen Hunt is lame and we don't even get to see the reaction of the woman , who's package he was determined to deliver for 4 years , when she opens her FedEx box up . Instead we have Hanks in a ' where do I go now ' debate . It is such a disappointing ending that lets the whole film down . It could have been so much better . I give this because it should have been made in widescreen and should have had a MUCH better ending .
Cheap , but mildly effective and robust	I first heard about this film a long time ago . I can't remember how but I remember it had glowing reviews and that it was in the style of the Blair Witch Project . Well , it's NOT in the style of BWP . Yes , there are 3 youths out in the woods being stalked by an unseen psycho but they never acknowledge the presence of the camera because it's not that kind of movie . Three girls Sarah , Ellie and Angelique go to Angelique's grandfather's cabin out in the wilderness for a weekend of boozing it up . But Angelique has a hidden motive . She's there to go through her grandfather's notes and find out who murdered him and why . It turns out he may have been murdered by a group of hardcore satanists . And when one of the girls makes a prank call to the leader ( one Aleister Crowley the man who apparently did zillions of black magic rituals in Boleskin House up at Loch Ness ) all hell literally breaks loose . Their car vanishes , a man in a cloak is seen standing before the trees in the distance and sinister notes are shoved under the door . Sal Ciavarello does create a good amount of tension and mystery but the cheapness almost kills some of the big scares . Some of the chase scenes and especially the ending are just plain confusing because it's cut too fast and shot too darkly . He does however make up for it in sheer brazenness . It's one of those films where what you don't see is scarier than giving us a full-blown monster ( like BWP ) . However , I personally wanted to see more of the villain . Most cheap horror films force the characters to do stupid things and foolishly walk into obviously dangerous situations on their own in order to get slashed . HPE does not do this . The girls are forced to spew out hate for religion and their nerves send them almost crazy . Sal Ciavarello is guilty of cramming way too many ideas into a 90-minute film though . I would like to see this remade with a bigger budget and stronger technical skill . Much like El Cheapo El Mariachi became the much bigger and livelier Desperado . The DVD of this film is IMPOSSIBLE to find . I managed to hunt down a copy and while it's not a film I would watch again it does make a change from junk like I Forgot What You Did 7 Summers Ago 50 , 000 , 000 .
A strange , curious little movie	I liked Brainscan when I was younger but it seems a bit dated now , even for a film made in 1994 . It just makes such a big deal out of CD-ROM technology . I guess the only game out back then was Myst . Michael Brower ( Furlong ) is a lonely kid . His mother is dead and his dad is often away on long business trips leaving him alone in his attic bedroom with his massive computer station big enough to be the Skynet system core ( one presumes his dad is computer salesman or something ) . Horror movies are his obsession and spying on his would-be girlfriend next door breaks up the day . For him , life is easier when seen through a TV rather than dealing with it up front . His attention is drawn to an ad in Fangoria , a video game called Brainscan which promises the ultimate high in interactive gaming . It's a horror game that is so real it'll chill your blood etc etc . Michael is sceptical but goes along with it anyway . He dials the number and gets his ( apparently free ) Brainscan disc . The object of the game is to kill and that's exactly what Michael does . He's sent into a state of deep hypnosis through the TV and wakes up on his ultimate killing high . So THIS is what it feels like to be Jason Voorhees ! Trouble is it appears that Michael really is killing people and when he tries to shut the game down wonderfully mad character called The Trickster pops out of the TV and involves himself in conversations regarding the nature of horror that become a bit too philosophical . Brainscan ends with a plot twist that is quite ingenious and caught me totally off-guard the first time I saw it . However , a couple of plot points that occur after this make no sense and throw the whole logic of the plot into confusion . Written by Andrew Kevin Walker ( the very man who gave us Se7en and 8mm ) you can expect there to be a certain tightness to the structure of the film but it seems to be to small and restricted for it's own good . If more opportunities created by the bizarre story were explored and fleshed out it could have been a great film instead of only being a good one . The Brainscan DVD is in average looking 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with average Dolby 2 . 0 sound . The region 1 disc is really the only way to go as the Region 2 is in crappy fullscreen . Neither have any features . Don't pay more than 5 bucks this if you really want it .
Fun for a short while	I first got this game way back in March 1993 when I was 12 and for some reason I thought it was great . Originally released on the Commodore Amiga in summer 1992 to coincide with the Barcelona Olympics it eventually found its way onto the Genesis at around the same time as Robocod ( which I also loved ) , so I guess my fondness of James Pond made me turn a blind eye to the limited appeal of the game . Basically there are 10 different aquatic events that Pond and his pals take part in . Some are fun , like the Hop , Skip and Jump , 100 Metre Splash , Shell Shooting , Bouncy Castle but others like Feeding Time and Kipper Watching are really boring and last for 4 very long minutes . The multi-player was even more tedious and I rarely stuck with it long enough for it to be worthwhile . I would like to see all 4 James Pond games re-released and perhaps The Aquatic Games could be improved if more events and bonus games were added to it . As it stands right now , it's just not worth it for 10 different events . Graphics Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Not as relevant	When compared to the original Charlie Brown Christmas this movie seems to be less social commentary and more an excuse for gags . It's more cartoony and has more obvious laughs rather than any irony or important things to say . There's another Xmas play in this ' un . Peppermint Patty is refusing to do any homework and is annoyed that Marice is playing Mary and she is left with the thankless role of a sheep . Still , she's determined to steal as much scenery as possible . Charlie Brown is selling his old comics to buy an Xmas present for his wannabe girlfriend and his sister Sally has only one word to say in the play ' HARK ' but she ends up yelling ' HOCKEY STICK ' instead . More like a series of Peanuts vignettes than a real TV special . But still nice .
Clichéd , slow and melodramatic , but worth it when it gets going	Appleseed simultaneously suffers from the worst Anime has to offer and benefits from the best animation and production a modern production can have . If you are a hardcore Manga fan ( or just occasionally fond of it like me ) you'll be aware of the most typical clichés , most of which make up the bulk of the Appleseed story . So . . . we have a world set after WWIII , in which a Utopian Society has finally found peace . But there are still some people who cannot help but let their anger and bigotry take hold . Android / Clones with suppressed emotions help balance out Utopia and some even want to be fully-fledged humans . There are humans who hate these Androids and wish them to all die out . And there are some Android who hate humans and wish them to all die out . And finally , there is a big computer who runs everything . Nothing there you haven't seen before huh ? It also takes a while to build up momentum . Though when it does , the plot twists and turns and action scenes are truly exhilarating . The animation quality is breath-taking with seamless blending of hand-drawn , motion capture , CGI and 3D images . Style and plot-wise it is very , very similar to Sky Blue / Wonderful Days . But since they were in production at the same time one cannot accuse the other of plagiarism . The sheer amount of technology and hardware in the movie will make you drool . There are loads of cool devices , futuristic inventions and awesome weaponry . There is also loads of atmosphere with gorgeous , gorgeous sunsets , storm-lashed oil rigs and wonderfully blue-sky-ed cityscapes with an environmentally friendly amount of trees everywhere . The Matrix ' inspired ' action can be a bit annoying sometimes . We've seen people diving through the air in slow motion will taking out supposedly highly-trained soldiers ? And the music is kinda uninspiring . With contributions from Basement Jaxx and Paul Oakenfold one expected it to be a lot better . When you take the good with the bad , Appleseed still comes out as worthwhile and enjoyable . If your new to Anime then you can forgive the clichés , if your a big fan then you'll be awe-struck by the impressive production values .
Nice , but pointless	While I understand all of Hayao Miyazaki's work cannot be heavy , 2 hour-plus epics , this is the lamest of all his films . Don't get me wrong , I like it . But there isn't really a lot of story or character to make a feature length film out of . I watched the English dub with Kirsten Dunst doing the voice of Kiki and the late , great Phil Hartman doing her talking cat Jiji . Much like Sabrina The Late-Thirties Teenage Witch , Jiki is black , cynical and funny . He provides most of the film's laughs and is impossibly cute . As I have said , the film is very light . So light it could float in the air without the need for a broomstick . Nothing is really made a big deal of and no real story develops . What gives the film class is Miyazaki's attention to detail and gorgeous production design . Kiki exists in a perfect , transethnical European town with wonderful architecture and scenery . The flying scenes look brilliant and the colors are always bright and cheerful . Still , no-matter how pretty and easy-going , it doesn't have that long-lasting appeal of Nausicaa or Castle of Cagliostro .
A Bully for Mickey	Mickey and Minnie are out in the country for a nice quiet picnic . But that's soon rudely interrupted by the arrival of Mortimer Mouse , who promptly gatecrashes their pleasant afternoon . Mortimer is a loudmouth show-off with a big car , Minnie instantly swoons over him ( how shallow is that ? ) even though he takes great pleasure in tormenting and humiliating Mickey . He even sets a mad bull loose on him , which destroys any remaining hope of a relaxing picnic . Chaos follows as per normal . Not that funny though . Isn't it weird how much Mickey's car looks like Benny the Cab from Who Framed Roger Rabbit ?
Ugly humans .	I've never seen humans drawn so ugly . Not so much the Polo players like Laurel and Hardy ( I always like them ) but more the spectators in the audience . I don't know who that huge-headed , bulbous-eyed guy was supposed to be but he freaked me out . Anyways , it's Disney stars vs Real Actors in this Polo match ( A rather odd choice of sport . Was it popular in the ' 30s ? ) and nothing really funny happens . Sure there are a couple of clever moments but , like far too many Disney toons , it's all a set-up for everything to come crashing down . Vividly animated as it may be , it's still a bit too boring and doesn't hold up against Looney Tunes when it comes to hijinks .
A fun space shooter	In a time where space-shooter were a dime a dozen , Blazing Lazers has long faded into obscurity . But if you come across it cheap ( very unlikely it only came out on the Turbo-Grafx and is generally very expensive ) I suggest you give it a go . The game has more in common with shooters like the 1942 series than say , R-Type . There's absolutely nothing special or stand-out about it other than it is simply fun to play . You get the usual power-ups and bosses and stuff and you'll have a good time blasting away at everything . Only problem is that the levels are very long and when you die you'll be sent way back , which is annoying . Graphics Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Nothing like a little gratitude eh ?	Mickey's Circus is having an ' orphans for free ' day . All of the orphans appear to be Mickey Mice . His circus ain't up to much as far as we see . All he appears to have are a bunch of dancing seals , they baby is the cutest . Though classed as a Mickey cartoon , he disappears for most of the show , leaving Donald to go crazy in that way he always does . Obviously the seals torment Donald and cause him no end of grief but why do the orphans suddenly turn on Mickey's Circus ? The pack him and Donald into the cannon and blast them off . Nothing like saying thanks huh ? There are a few laughs in this one . But not a lot . I don't like circuses .
The 86 Minutes	I was really looking forward to this movie since the Criterion DVD is rather costly and a rerelease with a flawless screening seemed like the perfect way to be introduced to this so-called Hitchcock classic . It's a real shame the film ends up being so damn twee . The main problem is that the film is just too quaint . None of the bad guys feel like a real threat and are frequently fooled by Hanney's simple tricks , the stakes aren't exactly high and the MacGuffin is surely Hitchcock's lamest . The final scene in which a memory man ( a pre-USB key device ) recites a vital formula to no one of importance before dying is a dumb way to end the film . I was expecting some gripping set-piece like at the end of North By Northwest or Saboteur when the hero and villain went head to head at Mount Rushmore and the Statue of Liberty . But a single shot fired at the London Palladium ? Come on ! And what's the deal with that silly chase sequence over the moors of Scotland . The stupid speeded-up footage makes it look like a Benny Hill skit sans music . Plus there absolutely ain't no atmosphere to speak of . The only thing that really amused me was the chemistry between Hannay and Pamela , but that came too late in the movie . They also changed too much from the book . Pretty much all that's left is the name Richard Hannay and the words ' the 39 steps ' . Take away those and it's something completely different from John Buchan's book . A true adaptation would have been much better .
Derivative , but fun for a while	I've never read the comic-book on which this game is based , nor have I seen the animated series . But the game was fun enough for me to consider checking out the comic-book whenever I get the chance . As a side-scrolling beat-em-up it's nothing spectacular . The dinosaurs are not really in it as much as typical human villains . And the Caddy hardly makes and appearance at all . It had the chance of being a strange kind of Mad Max kind of game but it never really came together . Still , the graphics and gameplay are above average and the satisfaction of beating up lunkheads is still there . As arcade games go it's worth the money if you've not really much to do or somewhere else to be . You'll finish it easy as there are not really many levels . And , obviously , the 2-player mode is more fun .
Very cute and fun while it lasts .	But it's over , quite literally , in minutes . You could honestly finish the whole game in under 20 minutes , I kid you not . Basically , there are 4 ways to play Gremlins : Stripe vs Gizmo . You can the play as the very cute Gizmo , running around the various levels ( The Chinese Junk Shop , The Bank , The Police Station , The Cinema , The Firehouse and The Final Encounter ) collecting presents stolen by Stripe either at your own pace or in a time attack ( against the clock ) . Or you can play as Stripe , stealing all the presents from Gizmo ( is he a Gremlin or a Grinch ) at your own pace or in a time attack . And that's it . Despite being really short , the graphics are great and the sound effects and music are entertaining enough . So much more could have been made of this game and of the franchise . Since the game includes characters from Gremlins 2 it's puzzling why they never merged them both together into something bigger . The level designs are fun and gameplay easy to get the hang of , but it's too much of a kid's game . Not a bad game by any means , but just too short . Give it a go if you can find it cheap . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
A bit slow and meandering	Plus I'm not entirely sure if this is based on truth or if it's all just a complete fantasy . The idea of Doyle's life being picked apart by an apparition of the very character he created but it's a bit far-fetched to be believable . Still , it's interesting at the very least . However , very sad people like me will notice many anachronisms . Such as The Hound of the Baskervilles being hailed as Holmes ' return from the grave even though it is set before his encounter with Moriarty at the Reichenbach Falls . I did find it weird that Brian Cox plays Doyle's mentor Doctor Joseph Bell while his son Alan Cox played Watson in Young Sherlock Holmes . Some nice locations and warm photography are about all this TV movie has to offer in terms of atmosphere . It's sparsely populated and some things are never quite clear . Like what was that gunshot when Kingsley briefly disappeared in the woods ? Did that manifest in the cupboard actually exist ? How did an apparition of Holmes , that only Doyle could see , end up questioning his mother ? The score is also minimal , but could have been taken a bit further without being intrusive . For Holmes / Doyle fans and the merely curious alike .
All aboard !	If Mickey , Donald and Goofy build themselves a boat ( ' so easy even a child can do it ' ) do you REALLY think that by the end of the cartoon it is still going to be standing ? Obviously not . Their usual lack of skill and ignorance for each other's well-being cause enough problems during the actual building of said boat but it is when Minnie christens the boat ' Queen Minnie ' that all their hard work slaps them in the face . And who would have known that Goofy was dumb enough to think a figurehead is a real lady and fall in love with her . Mildy amusing .
A mouse in the hand .	Tom has caught Jerry and is about to make a sandwich out of him when a buzzard swoops down out of the sky and snatches the sandwich from his hands , just as he is about to take a bite . Not taking kindly to such acts of heinous theft , Tom goes after his sandwich , but the buzzard isn't going to give it up so easily . Cue many gags and schemes in which Tom tries to get Jerry back . Not to rescue him of course . Tom finds that the best scheme is to dress up as a weird-looking female buzzard . Of course the bird falls in love at first sight and makes it harder for Tom to escape than he ever imagined . Not the best T & J cartoon but loads of funny visual gags .
Better than I expected	Don't get me wrong , there's a lot of sheer crappiness in Santa Clause 3 , but there is still enough imagination and twists to balance it out and keep it alive for one more ( and hopefully last ) movie . I say hopefully last because I don't really think that Tim Allen really has any talent . He seems to have coasted his way into stardom . He also has a thing for doing Xmas-themed movies when he's not making utter crud like The Shaggy Dog or Zoom . But less about him and more about Santa Clause 3 . As Santa / Scott prepares for his massive annual delivery he must disguise the North Pole as Canada so the visiting in-laws don't find out his secret . Also Jack Frost ( Martin Short ) wants to take over Xmas so he plots to have Santa wiped out of Scott Calvin's history . Cue time travelling and alternate universes . I really didn't feel a pressing desire to see this film . I did see the first two in the cinema but felt that a third was really pushing it . But when Peter Boyle died and I learned that this would be his last movie I felt like I owed it to him . It's not as bad as it's low score would suggest but is still nowhere near as good as Polar Express or any other recent Xmas film . There's just no magic in it . Santa Clause 3 all looks rather false and phony . Actors like Alan Arkin , Judge Reinhold and Wendy Crewson are wasted with this kind of material and really should have been allowed to have more freedom with their limited roles . At the very least it rounds-off a neat little family Xmas trilogy . Please no more . Oh , and by-the-way , ' Jingle Bells ' is not a Xmas song . It's a Thanksgiving Song ! And the image of Santa as being the big white-bearded guy in a red suit with fluffy white bits was invented by Coca-Cola to match their bottle coloring .
Eh . . . it's okay	None of the scenes in this DVD are outstanding and the girls are only above average . The first girl Layla Gates does anal and DP with Marc Davis and Lex Steele , it's an alright scene but it's not hard enough or deep enough and the good bits are blandly shot and brief . Second is Christina , ( she says she is a Devon housewife with two kids ) she takes on Mark , Lex and Omar and does anal and DP . She doesn't like it too much and it's not much of a turn on to watch . Sarah Edwards is next . Plain , boring straight sex with Mark . Kelly-Ann follows and does anal and DP with Mark and Lex , not after Mark offends her slightly with incest jokes . Penetration is not deep enough and looks exceptionally dull . A rogue fly crawling inside Kelly-Ann's vagina is the only interesting thing about the scene . Zoe Rose does the best scene with Mark , Lex and Omar , doing anal and DP , which is better than the other attempts on this DVD . But I could have done without the male rimming . The last girl is a screamer and she does anal and DP with Omar and Lex , nothing too impressive as , once more , it's not deep or hard enough . Rent it .
Okay movie with serious lack of skill	The plot to this movie is just ridiculous . What were they thinking ? Any TRUE Friday the 13th fan ( myself included ) knows that the series officially ended with Jason Takes Manhatten . And this movie here is not a Friday the 13th film . It's a JASON movie . And not a terribly good one either . First off , the make-up for old Jay isn't so cool . It looks fake . The hokey is too small and seems to have been melted onto his face . Plus he doesn't have much screen time ( always a mistake in JASON movie ) . The dialogue and acting ( some cast members are competent enough I should stress ) is unbelievable . It's so basic ! And this JASON movie seems to rip-off plot elements from Evil Dead ( the presence of the Necronomicon and the Dagger ) and The Hidden . Did Pamela Voorhees use the Necronomicon to bring back old Jay ? Does this explain the whole ' Hell Baby ' thing going on ? It might , but it ' never really made clear to us . The showdown at the end is a bit of an anti-climax . There's no real energy or excitement to it . And Jason's decent into hell is just big non-event . A couple of over-sized Cookie Monster hands come up from the ground and drag him thru the suspiciously loose gravel . Zuh ? But New Line makes up for this by providing us with an unrated DVD that restores the gore . This is something Paramount never did . Now the movie seems very over-the-top and some of it is really gross . This was the whole idea for parts 1-8 . People cringe and freak at the blood and guts . When you cut them out you castrate the movie and it becomes exceedingly dull . So far this DVD is the only glimpse of what the first 8 could have been like . Plus the 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture is looking fine . And the DTS 5 . 1 soundtrack is loud , loud , loud . This is very good when considering the ambient effects and constant surround use . But Harry Manfredini's score is not . . . good . His music in Friday the 13th Part 1-7 ( Fred Mollin for part 8 ) was dead cool and used screeching strings and orchestra . Now if JGTH he uses a badly out of tune synthesiser . And it's simply awful . Buy this DVD . It makes for a great double-bill with Jason X . And New Line's quality and commitment to making it the best possible DVD presentation is something Paramount would never do . Originally titled Friday the 13th Part IX : The Dark Heart of Jason Voorhees .
Worst Assassin in history	I recently played the game Hit-man 2 : Silent Assassin on my Gamecube . The title really says it all : SILENT Assassin . Yes ? However I didn't particularly find it much fun with all that stealth and creeping around . I just went in guns blazing . I was crap . But I wasn't as bad as Vincent in this movie . Tom Cruise plays Vincent ( ooh ahh , Tom is playing a bad guy , hype , hype , hype ) a thoroughly conspicuous looking character who is in LA for a spot of contract killing . He hires unhappy cabbie Max ( Jamie Foxx ) for the whole night . Five stops , five kills , yadda yadda yadda . . . you've seen the trailer . This arrangement might have worked if Vincent were competent in the least . But he's just terrible . He leaves evidence everywhere , makes moronic mistakes , walks in front of every CCTV camera in LA and blabs far too much to Max , who any half-competent assassin would off at the end of the night anyway . Whatever the bad guys are paying him , the paycheck far exceeds the skill . Michael Mann directs the film with amazing skill , brilliantly capturing the multiple looks and feelings of night-time LA . There are many scenes of tangible atmosphere in Collateral , so much so that the film is eerily calming . A very slickly crafted film , but not as memorable as previous films in Mann's career . Cruise and Foxx have great chemistry together though it must be said that Foxx comes off as the better performer / character . Neither of them overact and keep their cool but there's a true realistic edge to his lonely cabbie than Cruise's idiot assassin who leaves incriminating exhibits A-Z all over LA . The DVD is in gorgeous looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with colors so vivid and lifelike you'll forget your watching a movie and not real life . The Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack is also stunning , fully complimenting the movie's dynamic sound design . Gunshots and very loud and pack a heavy punch , if you have a home theatre you'll love it . James Newton Howard's atmospheric score is also seamlessly woven into the film's sound design and it's surely Howard at the top of his game , miraculously blending his own score with non-original tracks . Once again , if you have a home theatre you'll LOVE the Fever Club scene . Look out for a blink-and-you-miss-it cameo from Jason Statham right at the very start .
Kitchen Chaos	In this cartoon Donald tries his hand at some baking . A radio cookery show is own and the female host is instructing listeners on how to make their very own waffles covered in butter and maple syrup . Feeling hungry , Donald decides to join in . And he does well enough until , in a moment of distraction , he adds rubber cement to the mix instead of baking powder . Now he's created some kind of flubber substance with enough elasticity to cause no end of havoc in the kitchen . The gags are mostly quite simple but there's enough invention in some of the havoc to make it an above average Donald cartoon .
Sea Duck	When this cartoon isn't busy with those really old ' bum ' jokes that were only funny in 1903 it's actually quite fun with an untypical ending . Donald , fancying himself as an old-fashioned Navy Captain , takes his nephews out on the sea in a pretty big sailboat . But , being Donald he has no idea how to hoist the anchor safely or even how to properly cast off the ropes . Pretty soon he's flying around in the sky attached to the mast which has broken off and turned into a kite . And then he battles a hungry shark and , you know what , he actually wins by punching it out . Strange to think that Donald actually succeeds at something .
Amusing silliness	Charley Chase recounts his experiences of his doomed trip to California with his wife and mother-in-law to his work colleagues . Apparently it was hell from the very beginning as his in-law nags and treats him like a hapless know-nothing . His wife always backs up this nagging by saying ' mother knows best ' . Listening to her advice only lands them in more trouble . After being held up by highway thieves , Charley accidentally trashes some old geezers car , refuses to pick up two apparently desperate hitchhikers ( Laurel and Hardy no less ) and is barred from entering California as the border patrol think he's just a hobo . It's an amusing short , with some laugh out loud scenes . It comes to an abrupt end and I'm not sure about the spontaneous musical number , but pretty entertaining nonetheless .
Not many laughs	In this short , Bugs tells the story of his life from the day he was born right up until his discovery in Hollywood and subsequent stardom . It isn't really funny as Bugs doesn't have anyone to work with for most of the cartoon . There are a couple of scenes with Elmer Fudd but he doesn't do or say much . And the running joke with the chorus dancers in the tuxedos wasn't all that amusing . I was also a bit annoyed at the end because not only is it not funny but it isn't true . I've seen better Bugs cartoons than this . Though I must say the title song is very cool ( used in many of ' Rabbit / Duck season ' cartoons with Bugs , Daffy and Elmer ) . It just seems weird using it without having Daffy anywhere in sight .
Kinda good	Mickey brews up potion , in his mad scientist lab , to give super-courage and strength ( the secret ingredient is Bravo Pronto ) to it's consumer . He tests it on a fly , which soon beats up the spider who's web it is caught in . To make sure the potion is a complete success Mickey gives it to a mouse to in turn beats up a cat ( they look soooo much like Tom and Jerry btw , odd since they weren't invented yet ) , the cat beats up the dog ( Pluto ) who then beats up the Dog Warden . With such an inventive and imaginative plot I would have expected more laughs and more complexity . I'm sorry to say that the cartoon is only mildly amusing and has an abrupt and rather senseless ending .
Atmospheric , mildly interesting game ruined by terrible ending	I'm not really all that interested in adventure games for the PC , to be honest . I was really into them on the Commodore 64 back in the 80s , which is weird considering how much more visual and dynamic they are these days . The Black Mirror does have some gorgeous graphics and an impressively Gothic atmosphere , but it's ruined by perpetual slowness and many , many scenes of long , long conversations . Samuel Gordon ( the most arrogant man in a video-game ever ) is the wayward heir to the Gordon Manor ( Black Mirror Castle ) who returns to his rural England roots when his grandfather is killed in suspicious circumstances . It's up to you to guide him around the Manor and village , talking to people and investigating . Typical ' adventure ' gameplay mechanics are involved in progressing through the chapters . Which is fine , but when the game makes you wait for other characters to do stuff for you , boy does it make you WAIT . I've had the game running for over 6 hours while other characters waste you're time doing stuff for you ( or not doing it rather ) . And there's nothing else for YOU do to when this is going on . It's infuriating . The ending to the game is profoundly weak . A lame twist I should have seen coming is capped-off with dull , whogivesadamn cut-scene and then the end credits . When I play a game for so long I expect more than that ! It also leaves many questions unanswered . Who EXACTLY killed William Gordon ? Where did Uncle Robert really go ? What's the deal with Samuel's long-dead lover ? How did the Priest not find the secret crypt halfway through the game ? Why is it set in 1981 ? I was impressed with the game at first but in the last third it got pretty damn tiresome and the end is no real pay-off . For serious adventure gamers ONLY .
So tired	The Pink Panther is worn out and tired . All he needs is a place to catch a few Z's . The only flophouse around kicks him out for some reason ( prejudiced probably ) . So old Pinky goes for a desperate wander . Soon he comes across an empty house and invites himself in . Little does he know that the owner will be back soon and is about to get the fright of his life . Tricks and hijinks follow . It's all funny stuff with the slightest bit of cleverness without being overly intelligent . The Pink Panther's coolness is in abundance in this cartoon . While not his best , it's still rather funny .
Brilliant acting and directing . But forgettable .	Spoilers thar be ! I remember being hyped at seeing this film at the Edinburgh International Film Festival last year , as were a lot of other people . Then , for no known reason , Clint Eastwood cancelled and we were left to wait another six months for the film to be released nationwide . Was it worth the wait ? Well , while I've never doubted Eastwood's talents behind the camera ( I really liked Absolute Power ) there is just something in this film that fails to connect with me . The story of three childhood friends ( Penn , Robbins , Bacon ) torn apart as adults after one of them is abducted is intriguing . Penn is the thug father with a loathsome and heartless wife ( Laura Linney ) , Robbin's is the meek and humble dad with a loving ( but totally traitor ) wife ( Marcia Gay Harden ) and Bacon is the investigating Cop who's wife has run away . All of them perform very well , especially Robbin's who has always struggled to shed his ' nice but dim ' typecasting . And Eastwood's direction takes its time and builds the story at a deliberate , unrushed pace . But as soon as Sean Penn's daughter is murdered I lost all sympathy for them . The story falls into darkness as suspicions and tensions mount . Every character gets what they deserve . I had no connection with Marcia Gay Harden at all and her panic and denial at the end is her own fault . Her character was the wife of Tim Robbins ' for what appears to be over a decade , she simply would have known her husband wasn't a killer , should never have confided in Sean Penn . Tim Robbins is also to blame for telling lies about how he came home bleeding and shaken . Sean Penn's character also gets what's coming to him ( though it's a bit of a let-down we don't actually see it ) . He's a bad man and despite his brilliant acting and grief at the loss of his daughter , why on earth would I care about such a despicable man ? Basically , many horrors and tragedies could have been avoided in this story if people just told the truth . Fair enough , there wouldn't BE a story if that were so but the result is a film that I cannot engage with and in the end I just don't care . The DVD is in great-looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are 2 extra discs worth of features ( one of them is a soundtrack CD ) if you can't get enough . I've had my share of this movie . It may have much greatness to it , but I want no more .
A very interesting , if inconclusive , ghost story	I am not a skeptic , but I do like to look for the most logical explanations of paranormal events . Skeptics , on the other hand , look for equally preposterous ' real ' explanations for stuff that humans perhaps just don't understand . The Mothman Prophecies is full of mystery and subversion . Some parts of it could be explained , but negated by others . It's far-fetched but directed with such sombre timing that the unbelievable slowly creeps up on you . Ghost stories ( yes , I am aware that the Mothman is not a ghost but I don't know what else to call him ) are , by their very nature , far-fetched and this is probably why most people are eager to dismiss them . But most people fail to remember that their very existence in this Universe is the most far-fetched thing of all . There is an infinity out there than man does not / will never understand . It's arrogance to think that we've got our world figured out already and dismiss anything that doesn't fit in with our day to day lives . So yes , I am inclined to believe in stuff like the Loch Ness Monster , Bigfoot , the Skunk Ape and Little Green Men . Like the movie said , the Mothman has appeared in scriptures and literature of many cultures worldwide for thousands of years . Apparently the book on which the movie is based has more stories of strange happenings and info on Indrid Cold ( who is probably the most puzzling , enigmatic character since the Mystery Man from Lost Highway ) , so it's perhaps a good idea to check it out if you were intrigued by the movie . Director Mark Pellington creates a spooky and haunting Xmas atmosphere and uses the widescreen frame brilliantly . Occasionally he'll throw in a subliminal shot of the Mothman ( sometimes obvious , sometimes subtle ) or use bizarre imagery to heighten the sense of dread or mystery . It's very well edited and has a lot more class and sophistication than many recent corny PG-13 ' horrors ' like The Skeleton Key or The Forgotten . In many respects , Mothman is a lot like The Ring in terms of moody atmosphere and cryptic messages . But Mothman , while not a perfect film , is certainly the better of the two . My main problem is that nothing is really wrapped up . I mean I know it cannot be fully explained because no one knows what the Mothman is or who Indrid Cold was but maybe there was more explained or suggested in John A . Keel's book ( the man who Richard Gere's character was based on ) than the movie featured . Overall , it's a pretty good film and I look forward to Mark Pellington's next movie as I've been impressed with his work on this and Arlington Road so far .
Sea-through mystery .	Pursuit to Algiers is unfortunately void of any kind of mystery . The villains and their intentions are made clear to the characters and audience very early on so there's no puzzle or clues for Holmes to work with . The opening is quite well done , however , with Holmes being secretly led to a meeting with foreign officials . His mission is to escort a would-be King back to his native Romanovajebrovia or whatever . But there is a bunch of assassins after him making the chore somewhat difficult . Why Sherlock Holmes , a detective , is hired to do the job of a Secret Agent is a little weird , but it does set up a potentially interesting story as Holmes and Watson board a cruise ship with a bunch of shady characters watching their every move . There's not much atmosphere to be had , but some of the fog-bound deck scenes are effective . The only thing this entry seems to have going for it is a surprising twist ending with the credits following rather abruptly . Still worth investing your time in though .
Sherlock Holmes actually doesn't face death .	I am not sure where the title comes from . It seems to be rather generic and meaningless if you ask me . I could have come up with something better than that . I'm not sure why they didn't just name it Sherlock Holmes and the Musgrave Ritual since it is based on that particular Conan Doyle story anyway . This film has Watson helping out with combat fatigued war veterans ( post-WII ) who are recovering in a spooky old manor . When one of the residents is attacked by a mysterious figure , Watson recruits Holmes to uncover the reasons . Bodies soon pile up and a deeper mystery is revealed to be lurking beneath the surface . The atmosphere is pretty thick and the set design and photography are right on the button . This is what I like best about these old Sherlock Holmes movies . The howling wind , creepy old mansions , ominous clouds and rural settings give it a truly unique feel , though you can tell that is it merely filmed on the ' European Village ' set on the Universal backlot . The modern setting does detract from the overall quality of the film however . And even though the silly , patriotic WWII nonsense is pretty much gone , there is still a tacked-on speech at the end on how Britain is entering ' a new era ' in which people will trust one another and look after their fellow man instead of pursuing wealth and unending greed . Did that actually happen ? I don't recall there being a time like that in Britain . I think that Holmes and Watson would turn in their graves if they knew how degraded and utterly without morals this place has become .
Stretching the formula too far .	Set 8 years after Child's Play 2 , this sequel sees Andy Barclay attending Military School and getting bullied by the Drill Sergeant . Meanwhile , the Play Pals company has reopened the Good Guy factory and is starting production of the doll once more . But when clearing away Chucky's grisly remains , some of his blood spills into a vat of molten plastic and he is born once more in a new body . After a good old strangulation to get the circulation going he locates Andy at his military school and somehow figures out a way to mail himself there . However , once the package gets there it is promptly snatched by a very annoying , extremely gay and highly wimpy little kid called Tyler . Since he has a new body Chucky reveals his birth name once more , hoping to get a fast and easy ticket out of his plastic shell . As before there are too many distractions . And as before the film spends way too much time with boring humans who spend too much time lurking in the dark wondering why a doll seems to appear and reappear and not enough time with Chucky . He IS the star of the show and he should OWN this movie . The director never really gives him the chance . Which is a shame since the animatronics had improved over Child's Play 2 and Chucky is beginning to look nastily cute . And more and more like Brad Dourif if you look hard enough . The score is a major downer though . Greame Revell's wonderful orchestral adventure of Child's Play 2 has been replaced with a horrid synthesized , death-metal score filled with tacky and unimaginative stingers . Revell , fortunately , returned for Bride of Chucky . Jack Bender's direction ( he's done episodes of Lost , Alias and The Sopranos ) is slick but lacks edge , invention or humor . He seems to be ignorant of the potential Chucky has and treats the film like another mechanical TV series with no spark or signature . Child's Play 3 is no more than a competent sequel . Writer Don Mancini said he wasn't even ready to do a 3rd movie but Universal forced him to before the second was even released . As he was out of ideas he claims this film to be his least favorite of them all . If a better director were involved it could still have been a good film instead of being a merely an above average ( by a tiny , tiny bit ) one . Filmed in standard widescreen , the DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 2 . 0 surround . The only extra is an R-rated red band trailer .
Perfect , dumb entertainment !	No one really wanted , or asked for , a sequel to the seriously stupid 1997 creature feature Anaconda . But it was a hit ( somehow ) and you know how studios are when it comes to milking something for all it's worth - yes , Halloween 9 is currently in pre-production ! Surprisingly , Anacondas is actually quite good for what it is . Originally meant to be a direct-to-video production , Sony was so impressed with the dailies that they more than doubled the budget and elevated it to a theatrical release . The budget constraints still cramp its style , compared to A-list studio stuff , but it's the best film it possibly can be . With a touch more plot , involving a search for an ultra-mega-massively rare flower , called the Blood Orchid , that only blooms every seven years and can unlock the secret to everlasting life , there is a sophistication to the script , rather than plain old slither'n'slash . So we have a bunch of scientists on an expedition to the unknown depths of the Borneo jungle and it's not off to a good start . They can only afford a ramshackle boat ; it's the rainy season and the rivers are mighty treacherous . Also , their boat captain ( Johnny Messner ) is a gruff ex-Special Forces American , with the cutest pet monkey ever . Everyone seems to be okay about their perilous quest until they are attacked by big crocs , go over a waterfall and become shipwrecked . Then , when things can't get any worse , one of them is gobbled up by - you've guessed it - an anaconda . Instead of the traditional one-by-one deaths story , like the first film , there is more conflict and interaction . These characters may not be the best , or the most well written , but the actors do what they can with what they've been given . Messner is especially good , keeping a cool head as snakes prey upon them from every shadow . J-Low-IQ , the hammy John Voight and Ice Cube may be gone ( there is a quick reference to them ) , but fellow Boyz N The Hood alumni Morris Chestnut and E . R . star Salli Richardson are offered up as potential reptile food . And it just so happens that it's mating season . And the snakes are all up for a big orgy . And guess where the Blood Orchids are ? Right above their shagging pit . Oh bloody hell ! Luis Llosa made Anaconda in the most simplistic and static way possible . This time Dwight H . Little , the very man who gave us Halloween 4 , the epic Steven Seagal movie Marked For Death and err . . . Free Willy 2 , brings strong direction and integrity . It's a darker , more complex film that seriously promises to deliver the goods , but comes up a bit short . If it had been taken a few steps further , then it would have been great . As it is , it's more atmospheric and professional , but still , a bleaker ending , with more gobbled-up characters , would have suited me better . The snakes themselves look okay , nothing special . Little keeps them hidden for as long as possible , only offering brief glimpses here and there . A snake is an awkward looking villain , so keeping it hidden is probably wiser . There is also , thank heavens , no dodgy animatronics . Incredibly dumb and unnecessary it may be , but Anacondas is easy , inoffensive entertainment that will surely appeal to some part of everybody's taste .
Fun , but pointless	Despite the beautiful graphics and multiple characters to choose from ( including several from Final Fight ) I just can't see any REAL difference between this and the endless other 1-on-1 beat-em-ups out there . I never really mastered all of the special moves but there weren't needed as fighting with simple punches and kicks was good enough . It's fun for a while but in no way a game I would spend ages playing and finishing as every last character . I'm not that sad and I've got better things to do with my time . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
Actually quite good	The Looney Tunes have had a spotty history on the Genesis . I hated the Bug Bunny : Double Trouble game and Taz : Escape from Mars was just okay . This one however got it right and delivered nice graphics and decent gameplay . There are 7 levels , each one set up as a different cartoon with it's own title . You'll recognise most of the locations if you are familiar with the Looney Tunes cartoons . Your mission is to catch that awful Tweety and devour him . But loads of painful and dangerous obstructions lie in your way . As a platformer , it's hardly the best but the bright colors and sense of humor will distract you enough . I'd give it a go , even if you are a serious game and regard it as too much of a kiddies game . Graphics A Sound Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
Always recycle	In the trash covered desert town of Littersburg , the Pink Panther is sitting on a park bench eating a banana . He throws the peel away but is arrested by a cop and charged with littering ( even though a banana peel is biodegradable ) . His punishment is to clean up the whole town . This task does manage pretty well , but he has to do it over and over because whatever method of disposal he uses always ends up in the litter raining back down over everything again . In the end he flattens it all with a steamroller , cuts it all into squares , frames them and makes a fortune in selling it as modern art . He becomes the town hero and earns the key to the city . But there's a twist . . .
Thumbing it	The Pink Panther is ambitious enough to attempt to hitchhike his way to Anaheim , California despite the fact that it's over 1500 . The reason why he wants to go there is never explained and he's not having much luck finding sympathetic drivers willing to take him this massive distance . A nearby horse laughs at him , so Pinky has the brilliant idea of riding the horse all the way . But the horsey is having none of it and the rest of the cartoon is made up of Pinky's various attempts at mounting it . A thin excuse for some slight gags . One of them involves Pinky falling off a cliff and landing in a puff of smoke like Wile E . Coyote ( director Hawley Pratt was involved in several RoadRunner cartoons ) . But the very end in which the horse gets the very last laugh makes up for the rest of the tedium .
Would be good if it were not so bloody hard !	As usual , Turrican 3 delivers on action and button bashing with inventive , imaginative level design and furious gameplay . There comes a point though , in level 2 , where the game becomes impossible and you ( or at least me ) go any further unless you have the timing of the Gods or something . Which is a shame , since the Turrican series is what run-and-gun platformers are all about . The music is once again brilliant , with loads of cool tunes by Chris Huelsbeck and the graphics are great considering the hardware . The Amiga version does have slightly better graphics than the Sega version , but otherwise , they're identical . It's just too damn bad that it's too damn hard . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
Cute enough , but I just can't get into it	Super Mario World 2 : Super Mario Advance 3 : Yoshi's Island . Phew ! How about that for a title . I admit I found it a bit confusing putting these Mario Advance games in order but I think I've figured it out now . You gotta admit it's a bit convoluted . This game is a simple 2D platformer like most of the retro Mario games only it has four more levels than the SNES version released in 1995 . It's got easy-going gameplay in the typical Super Mario style , gorgeous graphics , generic sounds and not much to keep me interested . Yoshi IS impossibly cute but even for a guy who likes cute stuff this game is just TOO childish . Graphics A Sound C Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Good up until a certain point	I had Curse of Sherwood on my trusty old Commodore 64 back in the 80s . It was a fun game in which you explored Sherwood Forest as Friar Tuck , picking up artifacts and tackling demon skeletons , while occasionally shopping for bigger weapons . In this respect it was a very , very basic RPG but still quite enjoyable . Your mission was to rescue Robin Hood and the rest of the guys from some evil cult and a riddle contained in the cassette box was apparently full of clues on how to do just that . But there was one major thing that ruined it for me . . . the swamp . There was a certain part of Sherwood Forest that was nothing but a huge bog . And you had to make your way across it without sinking . Well , I never could , it was impossible . The correct path to take was invisible to the human eye and evil skeletons chasing after me I always watched in horror as Friar Tuck descended to his boggy doom . I remember the video-game mags of the time published complete maps of Curse of Sherwood and I finally got to see all the cool places I could never explore because getting through the bog was so damn hard . I still would like to play it once more and maybe finish the game once and for all . The graphics were the exact same as the Speccy version but they were still pretty good and rather atmospheric . In regards to color schemes and environments the game was a lot like the original Sabre Wulf from 1984 . This was one of those games that I loaded up quite a lot only to never get past that one bit . Still , it was probably better than I got to know . Graphics B Sound Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
You do drugs . . . you die	Everybody in the world ought to know that . Yet there are still people who do . Adam and Paul proves this as well as showing the hopeless deprivation homeless junkies exist in . It's not depressing , unless you're a junkie yourself and are heading in that direction . In the course of one single day , Adam and Paul try to scam their way through hunger , friends and their relentless need for more heroin . They are clueless , zombified and about as dead as living people get . It's hard to feel sorry for them , in fact you'll probably feel as much contempt for them as their former friends ( hardly first-class citizens themselves ) do when they show up and mooch . If you think your life is crap then you need only to compare it to Adam and Paul to cheer yourself up . And if you were ever tempted by drugs then this film ought to put you off that curiosity .
The thinnest Garfield special	I was never too keen on Garfield in Paradise , there is just something about it that doesn't gel . Garfield TV specials are always great but there's a couple of annoying things in this one . Jon has taken Garfield ( and a stowaway Odie ) to Hawaii for a vacation , staying in a lousy hotel after a third class plane ride . Everything about their trip reeks of sleaze . Soon they happen upon a native village ( containing a very irritating , gibberish-talking short guy showing asscrack that belongs in something like The Simpons ) and have to drive their 1957 vintage rentacar into a volcano to plug the hole . There's not much more to it than that I'm afraid . Though seeing as how I'm trying to plan a sunny beach holiday it did kinda put me off booking a cheap hotel and flight .
Interesting , amusing and loads of fun , but it's just missing something .	Although this movie is imaginative and fun it fails to take full advantage of the ' zany ' set-up it creates so well . I feel as if there are a lot of scenes cut out and the movie was cut down to size in the editing room . Tom Hanks and his pals get carried away with the idea that their neighbors ( The Klopeks ) are psychos and they take their suspicions to morbid extremes by spying , nosing around and harassing them . I enjoyed this movie as a kid but it's a bit annoying now . We never REALLY find out what exactly it is the Klopeks do or who they are . All we know is that they don't mow their front lawn and that's it . Bruce Dern has a lively role as an old Army Vet , Rick Ducommun is Hanks ' scrounger pal , Corey Feldman is a stereotyped ' Bill and Ted ' stoned teen and Dick Miller makes his obligatory appearance in a Joe Dante movie . The strongest feature of the movie is Jerry Goldsmith's wonderful score which is full of atmosphere and brilliant themes . Why can't more comedy movies have scores as lively as this ? Dante's signature is all over this movie . It's just a shame they decided to cut it down due to running time ( if that is the case ) . I know of the alternate ending in which Hanks is killed . I think that would have saved the movie . Anyway , it's well worth checking out .
Cheap-ass , simplistic Bond bore .	I know I'm just asking to be hauled over the coals for this , but Goldfinger is surely one of the dullest Bond films . I am not some cheeseburger junkie brought up on Die Another Day and xXx , before you make that assumption . But I found Goldfinger to be tolerable only because it was rather short for a Bond film and had a villain who was somewhat likable instead of a despicable super-arch-nemesis living in a volcano lair . Despite the fact that this film apparently cost more to make then the first two Bond films combined it is so amazingly cheap you could be fooled into thinking it they filmed it all for free . First of all , Sean Connery is obviously never outside of Pinewood Studios ( or the nearby , surrounding countryside ) since every time he appears ' on location ' it's ridiculously fake-looking rear-projection . My God , if you're going to make a spy movie in a franchise that sells itself on globe-trotting how about actually having your actor BE there ! The locations , as a result , are all low-key and not much to look at . The gold-melting plant in Geneva , for example , is blatantly an anonymous alleyway out the back of Pinewood . I was never really one for the silly gadget's in Bond film's either , so I'm glad that they never played a big part in the story and the stuff that he did use ( homing devices ) were believable . But don't get me started about the car ! Why , why , why do people always cream their panties over these inane Bond cars ? Let me tell you something ; the Aston Martin is lamest thing I have ever seen , I wouldn't be seen dead in one and it irritates the hell out of me that they keep cropping up in this series . And that's even WITH Q's cunning extras . The Goldfinger Aston Martin spawned a die-cast toy car that's worth zillions on E-Bay these days and is worth even more if you have the box ( why would you ) with the ejector seat still intact . Wow . . . the ejector seat . Such a big deal is made out of this but I swear the guy Bond launches out of his car soars a whopping one foot in the air . Adventure doesn't get any bigger than THAT huh ? Despite it's undeserved praise as a classic and a definitive Bond film , Goldfinger is clearly a rush-job with an Oddjob . This was Connery's third Bond film ( as well as others ) in two years . If they took a little more time and effort and delivered something with more sophisticated framing and effects then Goldfinger could have been worthy of being called a classic . As it is it's merely a fond childhood event for a lot of older adults who are unable to see how naff it is since they can only view it through nostalgic goggles .
Not that funny	The typical chaos that follows Mickey and Donald everywhere provide most of the laughs in this cartoon . They're climbing the Alps and literally dragging Pluto behind them . Donald decides to mad at a little mountain goat for some reason , Mickey attempts the ridiculously evil crime of stealing an eagles eggs and Pluto ends up freezing and being rescued by one of those mountain dwelling St . Bernards with the barrel of booze ( do these really exist btw ? ) . It's 10 minutes of putting the characters through as much aggravation as possible withing their environment . A lot of Mickey / Donald cartoons are like this and this one is nothing special .
Nonsense played straight	Morose color schemes , oddball characters and lots of rain apparently make a popular and successful film . While the Ring is an interesting view ( once ) if you look too closely at this film you'll realize that it's a huge pile of codswhallop that will never add up no matter how much you force it . Let's disassemble . . . A girl is born to a stray woman but possessed with the soul of a vengeful spirit in need of love and a mother but never in need of sleep . The child is named Samara and adopted by horse breeders Mr . and Mrs . Morgan . But because Samara is cursed with freakyness the horses go crazy and commit suicide while others fail to breed . As punishment for being this way the Morgans trap her in a big attic in a barn . Not content with this they smack her on the back of the head with a rock and chuck her down a well . Their suicides soon follow . Many years later Samara , using her freaky powers at the bottom of the well , somehow brings into existence a video tape featuring a freaky student film of imagery of her freaky life . Anyone who watches this tape dies 7 days later . Which doesn't make sense either as the first person who watched it wouldn't know they were going to die . And neither would the second . So how the urban legend surrounding it got started is a mystery . And why 7 days ? Why not right away ? Does she want the tape to be deciphered and to be found ? A journalist called Rachel investigates the tape , luckily making a copy-ridding herself of the 7-day curse and unravels Samara's freaky life . Her body is found and laid to rest properly . BUT THIS IS A BAD THING ! Somehow . It's never really explained why it is but other than the uttering of cryptic dialogue such as ' You let the dead get in ' . But bad things don't really happen after this anyway , other than more people watching the video tape . And then everything's okay right ? We might as well fade out now . . .
Funny , slightly	Not much is happening in this short . Jerry fancies himself a midnight snack , so he decides to raid the fridge . Tom in watching and foils his plans . Content with neutralizing the mouse , Tom helps himself to whatever he feels in the fridge . But he soon makes a mess and the offensive , highly stereotypical black slave / owner goes mad at him . Tom pins the blame on Jerry and a chase follows . There's not much in the way of creativity in this short . The kitchen environment just doesn't seem to offer too many traps , props or tricks . And while Jerry looks normal , Tom looks more feline and raggedy than he does in the later cartoons . Yes , it's worth watching but it's not as good as the Tom and Jerry we're familiar with .
Should be first ' adventures '	The title is a bit of an inappropriately long mouthful and the film is clearly split into two separate halves that have nothing to do with each other . I'm not really fussed about this , as they both have enough plot and developments to keep the viewer interested . It opens with Young Indy explaining how he is no ordinary child before being shipped off around the world as his dad ( Lloyd Owen doing a very good Sean Connery impression ) goes on a lecture tour . Though his mother and private tutor don't take too kindly to his willingness to get into loads of trouble . When in Egypt Indy meets Laurence of Arabia and helps unearth a tomb in which a priceless headpiece is stolen ( this plot is never resolved but I assume it will in later instalments ) . In Morocco he is kidnapped by slave traders and makes pals with a young servant . That's it really . Nothing really involving but it is nice , light entertainment . The educational aspect of Indy meeting historical figures and learning a wide range of things from them is not in the least distracting and is actually convincing as what inspires him to be the famous archaeologist that he ends up being . A promising start , I don't why John Williams didn't allow for his theme to be used though . It was even in the video games after all . And since this is a genuine Lucasfilm production I was surprised it was not included even if it would have been a bit out of place considering the material .
Curious ' end ' to the Next Gen series	The longest in production , the lowest grossing and most limbo-bound Star Trek movie of all . Nemesis is neither here nor there . It entertains without satisfying and features loads of brilliant SFX , but little awe . Perhaps we are all just too familiar with franchise and it needs to forever be increasingly far-reaching to keep it fresh . However , it IS a lot better than Insurrection . In terms of direction anyway . Jonothan Frake's TV movie approach to the franchise lacked any sort of class or sophistication but Stuart Baird fixes that with a darker and more menacing tone . The script is more sinister than that of Insurrection or First Contact ( the Next Gen movie titles still remain uninspired ) but what ends up in the film is confused and undefined . The plot has Picard sent out to Romulous to help make peace with the new Preator , a man who calls himself Shinzon and who happens to be an exact clone of Picard . Data finds an android identical to himself buried in the sand of a nearby desert planet . Picard and Data are suspicious of their radical finds and the suspicion soon proves to be justified as treachery and double-crosses are revealed . With an unconfirmed amount of deleted scenes ( rumors put it around the 50 minute mark ) it's painfully obvious that important plot developments have been cut out of the film . The sense of the Enterprise emptying as all the main characters leave for new career paths is lost . Worf and Crusher are hardly featured for some reason . The relationship between Data and his long-lost brother B-4 seems very thin . The sub-text is muddled and hard to get to grips with . And a sub-plot involving Praetor Shinzon's lust ( and subsequent repeated rape ) for Deanna Troi is abandoned as soon as it starts . What was the point of starting it in the first place ? Is B-4 actually Data's evil brother Lore ? And despite the fact that Star Trek has been around for almost 40 years at this point , the STILL do the cheap ' desert outside of LA as some other planet ' trick . And the dune buggies seemed to be kind of out of place . Like it was just added in at the last minute to make the film more exciting . Shinzon is not the slightest bit scary and even looks like the 3rd place runner-up in a Right Said Fred lookalike competition . For all the talk of him looking slightly different from Picard due to his life of hardship , he didn't look very hard . Also , Jerry Goldsmith's score just seems like loads of his previous scores with some cues altered slightly . Honestly , I recognised several cues from Executive Decision , Gremlins 2 , The ' Burbs and many other movies changed just a little bit to make it sound different . Though I understand Goldsmith was very ill at this point so I can forgive him for that . But it's hard to forgive the rest of the film . Like I said , it's entertaining , but falls apart under even the most superficial of scrutiny . It could have been handled a lot better and I'm surprised and disappointed that Paramount fumbled their flagship series so badly .
Unbelievably hard , surprisingly short	The Metal Slug games are famous for their button-bashing action , slapstick humor and white-knuckle difficulty . Not surprising that they are so hard considering they were first made for the arcade and it's a ploy by SNK for you to spend more money playing it . Now everything you loved about Metal Slug is on the Gameboy Advance , with a few new bonuses . One of them is the card system , which I cared not for , which you are awarded for rescuing certain prisoners or destroying certain bosses . Personally , I didn't think this changed the game much at all . Second is that you can save your progress in Metal Slug Advance , which will comes as a huge relief to anyone who's just defeated a near-impossible boss and doesn't think they'll be able to do so again . There are only five ( very hard ) levels in this game and you'll get through them in a week . Yes , at some points you'll want to hurl your GBA at the wall in frustration but stick at it and you'll learn certain patterns in which to get through the levels . And after you complete it you'll more than likely never play it again , no matter what cheap rubbish SNK have put in there to make you go through it again . There's just no enough variety for it to pay off . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
End of the line of Corey Carrier	In his final outing as Young Indy Corey Carrier goes out with a whimper rather than a bang , but that's to be expected since he's lies about dying in the last act . The movie , written by Jonathan Hensleigh ( Armageddon , Jumanji , Die Hard 3 , The Punisher ) opens with the Joneses traveling to India where local charlatan claims to have found the second coming of Christ ( or something like it ) in a modest local Indian boy . Indy makes pals with him and teaches him baseball . In return he gets a tour of Benares and learns of all the major religions and how they tie together . It's then on to China where Indy takes ill after a visit to the great wall . With his father absent and their carriage stuck out in the wilds a peasant family take them in while Indy struggles to fight off Typhoid . In between his conscious moments we learn that Indy had a sister who also died when she was young . A local doctor saves the day by sticking Indy full of acupuncture needles so the young adventurer can live to find the ark , rescue the slave children and drink from the holy grail . And now for Sean Patrick Flannery . . .
Too tame and childish	I never could see Jonathan Pryce as Holmes myself but he was the only good thing about this otherwise sterile family drama that seems like it was made for CITV or CBEEBIES . There's absolutely no bloody atmosphere to it . Holmes ' trusty Baker Street kids lose their leader when he apparently drowns in the Thames and the victim's sister begins to turn against Holmes claiming that he doesn't really care for them . But he still needs them to carry on working for him since he's in the middle of a difficult case . It's not the best of plots and the acting from the majority of the cast would make the ' actors ' in Hollyoaks cringe . The stupid slow motion and editing techniques do not fit the context and the music is completely anachronistic , if terribly dull . The production design was pretty though , it has to be said . For Sherlock Holmes fans and very young kids only .
Better than average TV fare	Most TV movies I've seen are abysmal . But this one manages to rise above than with some okay photography and a really cool musical score by David Michael Frank ( whatever became of him ? ) . Jeff Fahey is quite good at playing Frank , a crooked cop who is hiding out from the bad guys who blinded him in Mexico . There he meets Mia Sara who plays Chandler Strange and he becomes involved in a schemey sub-plot . Things turn against him as events arise suspicion . This TV movie has it's roots in low-key gangster movies and sticks to them like glue . By doing this the whole movie feels authentic and atmospheric . Which is not something you see all the time in TV movies . Overall
Stripped down , but still stands well on ITs own .	I've never read the book of IT , but I did buy it for my mother's 30th birthday some years ago . She never took much interest so I had a browse myself . While not reading it cover to cover I did read about 100 pages in the middle section of the book just to see if it bore any resemblance to the TV-movie . Yes it does and no is doesn't . If that makes any sense . The characters are there and King's ever-recurring Derry is portrayed effectively enough as a dead-end , horrible town . But like most screen adaptations , it lacks the heavy substance of King's writing . But it would be hard to squeeze in over 1000 pages of story into a movie , even if it is 3 hours long . Split into two halves , the movie begins with the disappearance of a little girl , taken by an evil clown named Pennywise ( a deeply sinister Tim Curry ) . A local librarian recognizes the pattern of the murders and calls each of his friends ( The Lucky Seven / Losers Club ) who helped defeat Pennywise 30 years previously . Pennywise is not bound by the laws of physics and takes on the form of what each of the lucky seven are most afraid of . They find no other appropriate word to describe the phenomena other than IT . We see the backstory to each of them as they suddenly remember events they have mysteriously forgotten . A simple plot device , but effective . It makes the first half stronger than the second . From the 90-minute mark onwards we have a bunch of scared grown-ups who just seem to ask ' What are we going to do ? ' about a zillion times even though as kids they knew exactly what they were doing and were a lot tougher . The ultimate ending is a bit of a let down as it totally erases King's mythology and gives us some lame monster that is nothing compared to Pennywise himself . A helluva lot of King's mystery is simply torn out but IT still has enough energy and intrigue to make a decent stand-alone movie . But after 3 hours , I just wanted a better ending . Director Tommy Lee Wallace did want to shoot in Panavision ( an unusual move for a TV movie ) but the studio wouldn't allow him and so he compromised by shooting in flat 1 . 85 : 1 ( still irregular for 1990 ) . It would have been better to have a scope aspect ratio , especially with 7 characters sometimes occupying the screen at once . But you can blame studio interference for that . An above average TV movie , no doubt . Just loses momentum after the half-way mark and loses points for not sticking closer to King's book .
Just a couple of laughs .	Donald is stationed at some listening post in what appears to be a remote part of the Pacific coast . Not a lot is happening . So much so that he falls asleep . His snoring / trumpeting , wakes up his nephews Huey , Duey and Louie who then play a couple of tricks on him . The few laughs come from Donald thinking he's under attack . Yes , it is a Disney war propaganda cartoon but the Xenophobia isn't as obvious as in other cartoons of the time . The main problem is that the idea is kind of limited . It never leaves Donald's listening post and there's not a lot of imagination or stuff going on . Meh ! You've seen worse .
A very , very poor film but more of Jason Voorhees is always a good thing	I was wise enough to not get my hopes up . The Friday the 13th films have always fluctuated in quality , but aside from Part V they have always delivered the goods in either meagre or generous amounts . Platinum Dunes ' restart is utterly determined to gives us the best Jason possible , and it's evident that they tried their best . But the collective best of Michael Bay , Marcus Nispel , Damian Shannon , Mark Swift , and composer Steve Jablonsky ( music has always played an important part of this franchise ) just isn't good enough . The characters are flat , boring , and lifeless cardboards cut-outs . A mistake that most slasher films make is giving us horrible , nasty characters that we WANT to see killed ( turning the killer into a sort of anti-hero in the process ) rather than characters we like . There is no excitement or horror in counting down the minutes until the stock jerk boyfriend gets eviscerated . There is also a shocking dearth of common sense or logic to their actions . I understand that the extended version of the film may fill in some blanks and fill out their reasoning somewhat , but I still cannot side with characters who make stupid , stupid decisions and just don't use their head . I appreciate the fact that they shot the film in anamorphic Panavision ( something that is sadly dying out a world of cheap , ugly Super35 ) but the high key , polished , and shiny photography doesn't seem to fit . Take a look at Part IV . It wasn't the best entry in the series , but the grainy as hell photography created an undeniably bleak , depressing atmosphere and gave the film a unique kind of intensity that is missing here . Jablonsky's score is nothing more than the same noise he gave us with every single one of his previous movies . If the man has any kind of musical talent he's yet to convince me of it . Yes , it works , but only on an extremely basic level . But blasting us with a sudden storm of noise as Jason appears on screen is a dated ' stinger ' scare and is void of sophistication . I know that complexity is not something one should be looking for in a Jason movie , but Harry Manfredini's Herrmann-esquire scores for parts I-VI were far superior . The actors do their best with the weak script , so I can't really fault them . The low body count also disappoints . Was it really necessary to specifically give us thirteen kills ? It doesn't give the film any kind of clever or ironic edge , if anything it just saves on the blood and gore effects . Since 1980 we've had twelve Jason movies ( counting his brief appearance in the first ) , so did we really need yet ANOTHER slow , stalk and slash entry set at Camp Crystal Lake ? Jason has been to New York , Hell , and outer space . Why , oh why , go back to the same old , same old ? This film should have given us something new , but did absolutely did not . Why don't people from the town realize that so many victims are splattered right on their doorstep ? How did little Jason come to fend for himself in the woods ? Is he EVER going to go on a gung-ho rampage through the streets ? Hiding in the trees while the music whispers CH CH CH AH AH AH is old , old , old , and I am sick and tired of it . Apparently Shannon and Swift are working on the script for the sequel as we speak . Get it right this time , guys . There's a reason why this film sank like brick after it's first week . You promised something new but gave us something embarrassingly ancient . The audience stayed away once word of mouth got around that you took advantage of their trusting nature . Having said all that , I will always invest my time in watching Jason carve ' em up . He deserves a lot better though . BTW , it's not really a reboot . The film still acknowledges the events of the 1980 original while tweaking the continuity a little bit ( the Friday the 13th films were never really solid with the timeline anyway ) . Think of it as just another Jason adventure . Calling it Part XII would have alienated potential viewers , but the simple Friday the 13th doesn't necessarily mean it's a straight-up remake .
Who ?	I've never heard of Claude Cat but he's another one of those Cartoon cats who likes to chase after mice / birds but never gets them . Only this time there's a twist . . . he's a hypochondriac . Dumb mice Bertie and Hubie break into his house ( so they are in the wrong ! ) in order to steal some cheese . Claude doesn't like this and gives chase . Only when he runs past the open window they came in from he gets a sudden chill and believes he might have pneumonia . Trust me , I've had it , and it's a lot worse than a sudden chill . The mice pretend that Claude is dying and ending convincing him he has died a fake death . Since I have never seen Claude since watching this cartoon today I can only assume his weak personality and unaesthetic appearance only did send him to Cat Heaven forever .
I prefer this one .	I was never really that much of a fan of Get Shorty , but for some reason I watched it like a zillion times after I taped it off TV years ago ( I guess Dennis Farina was just too funny ) , so much so that I was word perfect in every scene . Sure , it was funny , but what ruined it for me was the obnoxious direction by Barry Sonnenfeld ( who , in The Gator's opinion , is down there with Kevin " Antichrist " Smith as THE worst director in Hollywood ) that oozed falseness and tackiness at every opportunity . Thankfully , F . Gary Gray has taken control of the sequel and it feels / looks less pedestrian and more er . . . cool . It's a stronger and funnier movie and , for a change , more of a new story than a simple sequel . Chili Palmer ( John Travolta ) is now bored with movies , sequels and Harry Zimm and reckons the music industry will be more exciting . His pal Tommy Athens ( James Woods , who appears to have aged about 20 years since Vampires ) is a veteran music producer and keen to get a movie made about his life , something involving gangsters , crooked deals and the Russian Mafia . Too bad Tommy is promptly gunned down in broad daylight by the evil Ruskies . Instead of making a movie about it , Chili takes Tommy's place and decides to stir things up at his record label and takes a shine to his widow ( Uma Thurman ) . After watching starlet Linda Moon ( Christina Milan ) performing in a tawdry club , he promptly nicks her from her moron manager ( a very funny Vince Vaughn ) and promises to make her a huge star . Only problem is there's about 20 gangsters , a rival producer , a hit-man ( the very funny and late Robert Pastorelli , whom I like a lot in his final movie ever ) and a gay bodyguard ( The Rock ) out there to make things difficult for him . One might accuse Be Cool of being too self-aware in attempting to smooth over its shortcomings , but the cheeky humour and welcome light touch make it thoroughly inoffensive . Farina may be absent this time round , but The Rock , providing more proof then ever before that he's a great actor , steals the show and Vaughn is a laugh riot . It could be interpreted as a major flaw that these two characters totally overshadow Travolta and Thurman , but one can hardly be cool and eccentric at the same time . As a result , the leads seem a bit dull . Since the first was hardly high art , it would be insane to judge Be Cool too harshly . Enjoy it on its own level and you'll see that it's actually better than the irritating Get Shorty .
How nice	Mickey , Donald ( who's species are used to being hunted ) and Goofy are on a hunting trip in what appears to be the Canadian wilderness . Goofy and Donald disguise themselves as ( a horribly ugly ) female moose in order to get close enough to blow it's brains out . The plan works but the male moose falls in love with there disguise ( I guess it was the lipstick that fooled him ) and they have trouble shaking him off . Meanwhile , Mickey has broken his gun and is stuck in a tree as a moose takes bites out of the leaves , exposing him more and more . The two mooses finally fall in love with the Goofy / Donald disguise and go to war with each other . The disguise soon fails . The cartoon ends . Not heavily funny but a mindless 8 minutes .
Robots back then ?	In this 9-minute cartoon , Donald enters a museum exhibiting the latest inventions , such as robot butlers , robot hitchhikers , robot nannies , robot barber chairs . . . basically all robot stuff . And still , 70 years later , we have no robots . Weird . Anyway , Donald , being as irritable as he is , quickly becomes angered by the inventions and ends up getting slapped around and tormented in the usual ways . It serves him right for scamming himself into the museum for free . It's funny without being thigh-slappingly hilarious . And some of the robots will probably remind you of Bender and his pals from Futurama .
Mindless Fun	In one of the few movies where Martin Lawrence's humor doesn't become seriously racist and xenophobic he plays Miles Logan , a jewel thief , after a $20 million diamond . But one of his team betrays him ( Peter Greene , once again playing a bad guy ) and they're plan is thrown all out of whack . After hastily stashing the diamond in a nearby construction site he is soon arrested sent away for 2 years . Upon release he heads back to the construction site only to find it's turned into a police station . No luck getting back in unless you're a cop then . A series of disguises fail and Logan ends up impersonating a cop in order to get to the diamond . But he's so good at the impersonation that police duty gets in the way and he's partnered with Carlson ( Luke Wilson ) . Mild plot complications ensue and it becomes increasingly difficult for Logan to get to the diamond . Though the trouble really starts when Deacon ( Peter Greene ) comes back to get him . It's all brainless stuff but it makes for enjoyably silly viewing . Lawrence's improv isn't all that funny but the rest of his performance is strangely tolerable . Wilson isn't his usual self in the wimpy cop role but it's weird watching him pronounce ' real OLD SCHOOL ' 4 years before said movie was released . And Dave Chappelle is hilarious Tulley , the amateur liquor store robber . There was supposed to be a sequel but plans for it fell through . It would have been a hundred times better than the awful Bad Boys sequel regardless of script quality . The DVD is in bright , clean 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a lively Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack . There are some extras but nothing groundbreaking .
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall	The first was very complex . We moaned about it . The second was very simple . We moaned about it . I guess they wanted a mid-level of complexity to this film , it works in a very basic way but nothing other than some fantastic set-pieces really becomes of it . In fact , the only thing that stops this from being a typical action movie is the soppy romance laced through it and Philip Seymour Hoffman's performance as the baddie . This particular baddie sells things to people who should own them wants to steal a Maguffin ( a completely unimaginative plot mechanism ) to sell to the Arabs . Cruise and Co try to stop him but he slips out of their hands and promises to make Cruise cry unless he does his bidding . You don't have to do much to make that happen . Just point a water pistol at him . The Maguffin is none other than the Rabbit's Foot ? What's the Rabbit's Foot you ask ? Who cares ? Like I said already , it's just an excuse for action to happen . We've seen plots like this before in Pulp Fiction and Ronin , but done to much better and much more intriguing effect . The action scenes are superb ! The chopper chase , bridge attack , skyscraper swing and Vatican Heist are bursting at the seems with excitement and are all shot and cut brilliantly . They add a huge sense of death-defying spectacle to a film that's low on ideas but high on espionage thrills . There are some weak links though . I HATED Simon Pegg's cameo and his apparent ad-libbing was the unfunniest thing I have ever heard in my life . The romance talk does reek of that corny ' You complete me ' scene in Jerry Maguire and Ving Rhame's character STILL gets no development whatsoever , spending practically the whole movie sitting at a laptop , again ! As a popcorn movie it works very well , but I had higher expectations so I was kinda let-down . But it never fails to entertain .
One of the better Bond games on the C64 .	The Bond license ( to kill ) was wasted on a lot of crappy C64 games . View to a Kill was pants , as was The Living Daylights . But Live and Let Die fared much better as , instead of following the film's plot , the developers made the entire game a boat race based on the film's chase scene on the Florida everglades . It looks and feels a lot like the old Spy Hunter video game as you zoom around corners , take-off on ramps , smash through targets for bonus points and blast away at enemies . It vaguely resembles the film but it was definitely one of the more fun Bond games the C64 had . Graphics Sound B Gameplay B Last Appeal
Only a couple of good moments	I only watched this because of Naomi St . James , who is one of the most gorgeous porn actresses ever , but her scene wasn't that good . It was just plain sex with a tiny bit of badly done anal at the end and then a weak cumshot . The only good bit is at the end when Donna Warner gets a DP and Patty Rouge enters to be DP'd also but then gets an anal fisting from Donna . THAT was pretty damn cool , but the rest in mundane . If they were going be extreme then why not all the way through instead of just one bit at the end . Give it a go if you come by it , but only if it's cheap .
Mediocre	I don't want to be mean but I am not surprised this movie flopped so bad . Audiences seem to be turning their backs on traditional animation in favor of CGI ( check out Finding Nemo's box office results , like $300 million and climbing ) . There's nothing particularly wrong with Sinbad . It just doesn't stand out in any way . There is no edge or spark or real reason why we should pay it any attention . Sure there are some funny jokes , a bit of humor and dramatic scenes backed by a loud and appropriately jingoistic score . But we've seen this hundreds of times . Be it DreamWorks or Disney , hand drawn animation is DEFINITELY out . Piglet's Big Movie , Spirit : Stallion of the Cimarron , Treasure Planet , Atlantis and Road to El Dorado all bombed . The Emperor's New Groove was the last successful one I can think of but it had a sense of humor more in common with The Simpsons or Family Guy ; widening the audience appeal . No doubt DreamWorks are hoping this will do better on DVD . Though I still can't see any reason why anyone should choose this over something more ambitious such as Monsters Inc . or Nemo . It's a good way to kill 90 minutes , but nothing you'll want to watch again .
Lacking the class of the original . . .	. . . but still good to watch . It's consistently funny and has a reasonable plot but you get the feeling it should have been better . Maybe it's too late to save the series with another movie but it would be great to see Richard Dreyfuss on the big screen again , he really is an under-appreciated and underrated actor . The main problem with Another Stakeout is that it just isn't as strong as the first film . Sure it was funny and had childish humor , but Stakeout had hard edge that this sequel just doesn't equal . The dropping of the R-rating for a PG-13 might have made economic sense but it betrays fans of the original . Second is all Another Stakeout has going for it is the endless arguing and fast-talking banter between the 3 characters . There's no perfect mix of smart-mouthing and action . In fact , the action is far too toned down and only really occurs at the very beginning and very end of the film . And for all the work John Badham has done in the past , the direction is lacklustre and uninventive . With the sole exception of the cat's bum POV shot of course . And he does do a great job with the Pacific Northwest scenery . But enough with the in-jokes . Yes , they are fun but there's too many for a film like this . If you're a fan of the first you might be disappointed at how diluted Another Stakeout is but you'll still laugh enough for it to be worthwhile .
Nothing special	Outside of a cozy Xmas atmosphere and the look and feel of a lovely country Xmas , this Tom and Jerry cartoon doesn't have much going for it outside of the usual hijinks . Jerry wanders around late on Xmas Eve , nosing at all the presents . House guardian Tom , doing his duty , chases him . It ends up with Jerry being booted out into the freezing cold . Feeling guilty , Tom eventually goes out to rescue him and the two of them enjoy the warmth of the fire together . Like I said , it's nothing special and not very inventive at all . A good cartoon to view at Xmastime however .
Good in it's day , hopelessly out of date now .	Suicide Express was one of those games that was fun to play on the Commodore 64 back in the days when stuff like that was mind-blowing . Today , you can get far superior stuff downloaded onto cell phones to the ultra-simplistic nature of Suicide Express is probably hard to forgive when you play it in 2006 . The graphics , to me when I was a kid , were quite cool with ' vividly ' detailed otherworldly landscapes and the idea of controlling a train as it hurtles toward oblivion , switching tracks , never taking the same route twice seemed amazing . The music too was minimalistic , but has inspired quite a few trance remixes in its time . Almost completely made by Antony Crowther on his own , then still a teenager as far as I believe , it's ' impressive ' that kid with a C64 program book could make a whole game . Also released as a slightly different game called Black Thunder , Suicide Express is now really just a game that belongs in a museum . It's an antique and so badly dated that it's almost unplayable today . Graphics ( by 1985 standards ) Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Fun , but ends too quick	I got this for my Gamecube believing that it might be a big epic ( it was a 2-disc game ) like Dungeon Siege but I was rather saddened when I finished it alarmingly quick . It's like they never even bothered to complete production of the game . It IS a lot like Dungeon Siege in regards to the exotic locations , RPG and free-roaming elements but none of them come anywhere near reaching their potential . Basil Poledouris ' thunderous score is only used ( albeit to good effect ) over the opening credits and a more generic and flat score continues through the rest of the game . The cut-scenes are alright but don't have anywhere near as much magic or integrity as Robert E . Howard's stories . In fact , this is just an ' in name only ' Conan product . Since we only ever see the character from behind he could really just be anybody and there are dozens of similar games out there so if your really into prehistoric hack and slashers then try it out . If not , stick with Dungeon Siege or save your pennies for Dungeon Siege II this summer . Graphics Sound B Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
Better than expected	I thought Daredevil was an absolutely pointless film with anonymous direction and an unappealing , non-unapalling lead actor . Thankfully , Elektra has a prettier lead and stronger direction from Rob Bowman , who seems to have ditched the slimy creature effects he seemed so fond of in X-Files and Reign of Fire . Daredevil is nowhere near as popular in the collective public conscience as Spiderman or even the Hulk . So imagine why Elektra failed at the Box Office . The whole world saw the poster and thought ' Who is she supposed to be ? ' . Either that or they saw the horrible , highly clichéd trailer that totally misrepresented the film . The resulting critical mauling by just about everyone wasn't completely fair nor was it completely unexpected . The film reeks of deleted scenes and subplots that have been completely cut out . It fades out at the 90-minute mark , leaving us wondering why they even bothered . However , what we do get is a mild , but nonetheless entertaining action movie with an almost constant spooky atmosphere . The plot is meagre and many of the subs and tangents are never explained or developed . Or they were then they were cut out in the editing room ( along with Ben Affleck , thankfully ) ? If they got Frank Miller ( he did create the character after all ! ) to write the script instead of 3 nobodies then it could have been something special . The DVD is in crisp 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with loud , sometimes dynamic Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 sound . Besides a trailer for the new Family Guy series the extras are of the usual ' whogivesadamn ' lot . Perhaps a future directors cut will improve the film , but as it is Elektra is hardly brilliant , but definitely an above average brainless movie .
Just plain fun	It's clear that as long as Ivan Reitman works in sci-fi comedy he will never achieve the greatness he did with Ghostbusters . That movie was a masterpiece of genius . Evolution is nothing but a fun ride that comes nowhere near the class of Ghostbusters . But it's still well worth it . Weird really when you consider that Ghostbusters : Go to Hell , the second sequel in which hell got so full that spirits started spilling out into the real world , was re-written and redrafted that it became this . . . something completely different . You probably know the story . A meteor crash lands in the desert and the single celled organisms living on it very , very quickly become multi celled and then little worm creatures and then . . . many other things . The movie repeatedly calls them aliens but since they evolve from nothing on earth and are conditioned by earth's environment they are , effectively , earth creatures . Watching them run riot and cause havoc is the main fun of this film . Ghostbusters had a dry , sarcastic sense of humor , like a fine wine . Evolution has a crude , gross-out sense of humor like American Pie , which seriously lessens the overall quality of the film . The lead trio of actors perform rather well together . Duchovny is much looser and easy-going here than his stiff , X-Files character . Seann William-Scott once again plays a dufus but he's more endearing here than he has been in other roles . Orlando Jones is kind of good but he too often takes his role in the stereotyped ' only black guy in a white movie ' direction . Sadly though , Julianne Moore's accident-prone scientist just isn't funny and her clumsiness seems false and forced . But obviously when you judge Evolution next to something better it seems an inferior movie . Judge it on it's own terms and you'll definitely enjoy . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen ( though it really could have benefited from a scope 2 . 35 : 1 aspect ratio ) and is in rather lacklustre Dolby 5 . 1
Isn't the army fun ?	After receiving his draft letter Donald marches his way right into the delivery office to sign up . He is probed and prodded during his medical and is soon down at the barracks getting trained to be a killer duck . A rather false portrayal of the army is offered here ( along to a lovely song ' The Army's not the Army anymore ' ) in which everyone smiles , everyone matters , battles are clean , ritual humiliation is absent and Drill Sargent's are for some reason not total psychopaths who force you do to infinity push-ups while standing on your back . Donald ( who's middle name is revealed as Fauntleroy here ) is the average Joe who makes a great soldier . Such propaganda may have easily convinced naive Joe Public back in the early forties but now , in this cynical day and age , it's a laughable experience watching this short .
The usual hijinks . . .	. . . only this time not up to the usual high standard . It's a one-joke cartoon that kinda stretches it's premise too thin . Bugs is his usual self but Yosemite Sam is now Sam Von Schamm The Hessian and during the American Revolutionary War they have a face-off in the Battle of Bagel Heights . Basically , this involves Bugs doing his usual outsmarting of Sam and torturing him , blowing him up etc . Most of the time this never gets tiring . Though some of the jokes drag on bit but the others have that sense of perfect timing only Looney Tunes are capable of . Not their best work but still good for a few silly laughs .
Doesn't live up to the sequel	Despite popular belief , this isn't the big man's best movie . Competent and skillful it may well be but there's far too much espionage and not enough action . It was made in that period of the early to mid-nineties where every action movie was ' Terrorists take over a ( fill in the blank ) ' . In this case it's a Naval Battleship . Gary Busey , always one of the best bad guys ever , is the evil second in command who hates his crew and his captain . But the person he hates most in the entire world is the obnoxious cook Casey Ryback . Well he's an ex-Navy SEAL first and a cook second . Enter William Strannix ( Tommy Lee Jones ) and his band of mercenaries , disguised as a rock star and busboys , who take over the ship , kill the captain and lock what's left of the crew away . Strannix is hell-bent on blowing up Hawaii and Krill ( Gary Busey ) plans to sell off the ships nuclear weapons to the Ruskies . But wait . . . Krill has forgotten about the irritating cook he locked away in the freezer . And Ryback makes it his mission to find out what the hell is going on and put a stop to whatever it is . Erika Eleniak pops up to provide some help and toplessness . I'm not such a fan of the first Under Siege , the sequel is much , much better but they both have their pros and cons . For some reason , Ryback's renegade , rule-breaking personality was played down in Under Siege 2 and Seagal made NO effort at his acting in that film ( he hated the idea of a sequel ) . However Under Siege 2 is much faster , has 50 times as much action , is way more exciting , has a higher sense of escapism and atmosphere ( compared to the repetitive battleship scenes in this one ) and has better villains . I know you'll disagree with me on the last point . But Strannix and Krill seem too over the top and seem to be acting up to the camera compared to the sequel with Travis Dane's wild eccentrics and Penn's icy , emotionless stare . Plus , Strannix's constant Looney Tunes references were totally out of place and distracting . Well all know Steven Seagal is good with the martial arts , so it's kind of odd that he simply shoots most of the bad guys in this movie . In Under Siege 2 he chops , slices , breaks , burns , chucks , slashes , strangles , explodes , smashes and crushes . It makes for a great movie is definitely the clear winner over this one . The DVD has a great looking 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture with a loud and impressive Dolby 5 . 1 track . 8 trailers for Steven Seagal films are included . The R1 version still comes in a cruddy snap case but the R2 version now comes in a sturdy keep case , complete with lovely Warner hologram . If you have a multi-region DVD player , get this one .
Sparkless , but still an interesting watch	There's no real Conan Doyle mystery here , the title is just a generic label to lure viewers . But there are still some interesting moments here and there despite the tepid nature of the plot . Moriarty ( apparently the only villain the Holmes ever faced ) plans to steal the crown jewels from the Tower of London and sidetracks Holmes by leaving lots of red herrings in his wake . But he's clearly not going to be fooled for long . Rathbone and Bruce are watchable , as always . But there's just something missing from this entry . It's all so twee and ordinary with no real moments of atmosphere . And the ending is a bit of a cop-out . Moriarty clearly dies but it's not really acknowledged and he ended up returning in a later instalment anyway . He might as well be a cartoon villain if that's their attitude . At least it's set in the 19th century , unlike some of the later WWII propaganda Holmes movies .
Pretty to look at , but has a really dull story	I had absolutely no clue what to expect from this movie . All I had seen were those really cool posters and I'm glad to say that the actual animation of the movie is brilliant . It's an utterly seamless mix of live action , 3D CGI and traditional drawn images . A wonderfully detailed and beautiful world is created and it's highly atmospheric . A shame that the story ends up being crud . In the future , thanks to major pollution , the world lives under constant rain that has destroyed civilisation to the point of near extinction . There are some folks who still live in luxury in a huge , self-contained city called Echo-Ban ( why it's called this is anyone's guess ) who take advantage of the peasants living in shanty towns out in the miserable weather . Inside Echo-Ban there is this supercomputer that has a secret button that will blow a hole in the sky so big that the rain will disappear and sunshine will return . Yes , it's absolute total nonsense and silly science is all through this movie . You won't have a clue what anyone is talking about or what any of the hardware is . And why doesn't anyone simply press this secret button sooner ? What is it about living under rain that the posh folks are willing to kill for ? Still , it's miles better than that awful Final Fantasy movie . Just don't expect to remember it for very long . Nice try however , it's the story that lets it down .
Had Zero Effect on me	I like private eye movies but Zero Effect just took too long to get started and Daryll Zero himself ( although brilliantly played by Bill Pullman ) knows so many stupid things that no one would ever remember for any reason . Check out the scene in the crime scene motel for example . Ben Stiller is quite watchable too though . But for some reason in every scene with him and his girlfriend they are making out . I don't know if anyone else has noticed this . " Zero Effect " s main problem is that's it's too talky and almost every scene takes place indoors . This adds an unwanted sense of claustrophobia to the film . Writer / Director Jake Kasdan does have talent and I would like to see him go far in Hollywood . And perhaps even make a sequel to " Zero Effect " but with a bigger budget and a more accessible plot line . It would be a shame to kill of a potentially great franchise because of one rather lame movie .
What's up MacDoc ?	As usual , Bugs Bunny gets hopelessly lost when tunneling to his latest vacation ( the La Brea tar pits ) . This time he ends up in Scotland and mistakes a ( stereo ) typical ' Scotsman ' playing the bagpipes for an old lady being mauled by a monster . Bugs promptly jumps to her rescue and smashes the pipes to tiny little bits . Naturally the Scotsman ( named MacRory and a thinly disguised Yosemite Sam ) gets very angry at the smashing of said beloved pipes and , instead of a duel , challenges Bugs to a rather unfunny game of golf . Bugs does his usual outsmarting and nasty tricks but none are really too imaginative or clever . We've seen Bugs to better than this .
Fun for the majority but ends up being too damn hard .	Like any other 2D Sonic game , this game does offer a huge amount of fun , with colorful levels and jazzy music . But the last 3 stages are so damn hard you'll just be chucking your Nintendo against the wall in a fit of rage . There are too many traps and stingers in each level . For a game that sort of promotes itself on being the fastest platformer out there it is quite cruel to send you straight into enemy , losing all your rings and leaving you powerless to do anything about it . The levels do seem a bit expansive as well and lack that tight , punchy feel of the Mega Drive / Genesis games . In this game you can play as Sonic , Tails , Knuckles and a new character called Cream , who is a rabbit . Strangely enough , Sonic is the blandest character of the lot in this game as he has no useful powers . I ended up getting the furthest with Tails since he has the ability to go airbourne . The last boss is simply impossible and the game is not rewarding enough to take all 4 characters this far . But hey , if you can get it cheap then give it a go . Maybe I'm just really rubbish at it . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Not really THAT great .	It's time for a serious , level-headed review of Shaun of the Dead . This movie is one of the most over-hyped of the year . I'm tired of everyone calling it an instant cult classic . This phrase doesn't make any sense . A cult classic is a film that no one sees by has a small but loyal following . Shaun of the Dead was a big hit when it was released her back in April and it seems like it will do the same when it's released in America thanks to the alarmingly widespread positive word-of-mouth . Everyone seems to be caught up in the off-centre comedy to realize that the film is heavily conflicted and doesn't add up . First of all , this is not a romzomcom , or whatever . There is no romance , just a guy who wants to make up with his girlfriend while zombies get in the way . And to call it a comedy would be totally wrong , anyone paying the slightest iota of attention would see this film is not a comedy ! Some funny moments , yes . But not all the way . Like most other zombie flicks there is no explanation to why Britain is suddenly overrun by the undead . The plague slowly trickles to life from the odd zombie stumbling around to full-blown hoards of them . Amidst this Shaun ( Simon Pegg ) and Ed ( the great Nick Frost ) make fun of the undead and go about dealing with the holocaust in their own silly way . There are some pretty hard scenes of heavy emotion is this film ( I want say what , but some characters do die ) that totally contradict the ' comedy ' label it's been stuck with . And despite some scenes of graphic violence this is NOT a horror film . It's not a comedy , a romantic comedy a spoof or homage . It simply doesn't know what it is . Many people believe they got a breath of fresh ( or should that be old ) air when it was revealed the film would have slow zombies and not the faster ones like in DOTD 2004 and ( the dreadful ) 28 Days Later . I personally do not understand this overused moan . Slow zombies are not scary ; there is no threat from them . Shaun of the Dead starts out very stupid and slow . The opening scenes of people doing the repetitive things day in day out are not subtle at all and hammer the point to the audience way too forcefully . Then when the zombies first appear the characters and the audience don't fully realize / appreciate the danger until the last five minutes when the film finally becomes exciting and then that's when we get REALLY ripped off . The film ends way too quickly and conveniently . What a let down after building up so much only to collapse back into the stupid tone the film began in . Horror buffs will like the zillions of in-jokes and references to other horror movies . To the casual viewer , they will go right over your head . It's about the only thing that's consistent throughout the whole film . Don't listen to the word of over-excited reviewers who are inexplicably giving this film 5 stars . It is in no way the classic they are making it out to be . Good , yes . Entertaining , yes . The best movie you've ever seen / best zombie movie ever / yadda yadda yadda , definitely not . Shaun of the Dead has great potential come from inspiring sources , but the end result is not what the hype is telling you . Already out in UK , the DVD has great 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture with Dolby 5 . 1 sound and zillions of extras including Audio commentary from actor / writer Simon Pegg and director Edgar Wright , Audio commentary from actors Simon Pegg , Nick Frost , Dylan Moran , Kate Ashfield and Lucy Davis . Audio commentary from actors Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton , Audio commentary from the zombies ! , Extended bits with audio commentary , Outtakes , ' The Man Who Would Be Shaun ' : Simon Pegg and Nick Frost impersonate Sean Connery and Michael Caine , ' Plotholes ' : comic strip sequences with voice-over from Lucy Davis , Simon Pegg and Nick Frost including What Happened To Shaun When He Ran Off ? / What Happened To Diane When She Left The Winchester ? / How Did Ed Get From The Cellar To The Shed ? , Extended edits of the TV Shows within the movie : Coldplay on T4 / Fun Dead / Trisha-'Your nine lives are up ! ' / Trisha-'I married a monster ' , ' Remembering Z Day ' : an interview with Jeremy Thompson , ' Electronic Press Kit ' featurette , Vignettes : Simon's cam / Lucy's cam / Joe's diary , ' Edgar Wright's and Simon Pegg's Flip Chart ' : a presentation of the first draft , SFX comparison from Double Negative , Make-up tests , Photo Gallery : photo's by Simon , Lucy and Charlotte , Poster Designs : from the original Oscar poster to the final official poster , 2000AD Strip : ' There's Something About Mary ' , TV spots , Official trailer , Official teaser trailer , ' Fright Fest ' exclusive trailer . Phew ! For those with a multi-region DVD player , get the R2 DVD version . Otherwise you'll have to wait until September 24 ( my birthday ! ! ! ) for the film to be released Nationwide in America .
Way too easy !	Shadow Dancer is the story of Joe Mushashi and his faithful dog Yamoto . Together they go out and beat up the ruthless thugs of the Neo Zeed Corporation and it's boss the Union Lizard . It's a load of confusing nonsense and in the journey from Arcade to Genesis the plot seems to have been erased and events taking place in the game just seem like gobbledygook . All you really do in this game is jump around taking strange-looking villains out with Surikens . To be honest , the arcade version of Shadow Dancer was much better . The graphics were far superior , the levels were cooler ( levels such as the airport and junkyard are missing in this version ) and the bad guys less weird . Plus it's very , very short with only 5 levels all over in a few minutes . As it was such a cool arcade game it's shocking that a game so easy and tepid could end up on the Genesis . It was capable of much more than this and Shadow Dancer is really only a game for Shinobi completist .
Difficult to figure out but pays off emotionally	Here is a worthless fact for you . Tear of the Sun was supposed to be Die Hard 4 . It was taken from a book called Les Larmes du Soleil by Henri Vernes . In " Les Larmes du Soleil " , a plane in which the hero is travelling over South America is hijacked by rebels . They intend on asking for a ransom to the Governments of the countries of the ' white ' passengers . The plane crashes and the hero escapes into the amazon . Soon he hooks up with a tribe of Aztec descendants and leads them away as the rebels are after them . This book was written as Die Hard 4 but Bruce Willis liked the title so much he agreed to do Die Hard 4 if he could use the Tears of the Sun title and script for a completely different movie . Now it's about a group of Elite Navy SEALS given the simple sounding mission of rescuing a doctor ( an American Citizen ) from a jungle village in war-torn Nigeria as an Evil General seizes control of the country and imposes brutal ethnic cleansing . Not a pretty situation . But as soon as Willis and his hardass SEALS ( including Cole Hauser , Johnny Messner and Nick Chinlund ) show up the stubborn Doctor ( that's the lurv-ley Monica Bellucci ) refuses to budge unless she can take 70 villagers with her . Willis lies , telling her that this is fine by him as long as she agrees to go . The choppers arrive , Bellucci freaks as Willis-calling him every name under the crying sun ( ! ) as only she is escorted to safety . Minutes later they fly over the village to find that the rebels have massacred everyone . His conscience gets the better of him , he orders the choppers back and they lead the ditched villagers to the safety of the Camaroon border through 40 miles of jungle . Trouble is , one of the villagers is a mole and someone else isn't who he says he is . As a result , what seems like every member of the Nigerian rebels go after them with about a bazillion bullets and rockets at their disposal . The difficulty lies in the fact that Tears of the Sun both does and does not glorify war . You can't really tell if the film is gung-ho or serious . But there's something quite moving and noble about a bunch of hardened commandos willing to die for a cause they've not had enough time to understand . Soldiers are humans and are too often portrayed as killing machines . There is no entertainment in the combat , only a sense of real danger and hopelessness . I actually prefer this film to the Black Hawk Down because A ) it's not a jumpy , jittery blur and B ) there a subtler emotional investment . Subtlety is something Black Hawk Down did NOT have . You can argue that it hardly belongs in a war film but it does give Tears of the Sun a strange edge . I have the Superbit DVD that has a brilliant 2 . 40 : 1 anamorphic widescreen picture with a loud , dynamic Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 soundtrack . Get this version , it's only available in R2 at the moment so you'll have to import if you live outside the UK .
Don't listen to stuffy critics . This film is damn ( berger ) funny !	I was expecting the worst . After reports of re-shoots and the film being delayed for the purposes of inserting some apparently much-needed humor I expected The Pink Panther to deliver a turd in 2006 . Much to my surprise , that is not exactly the case . I'll get to my main problem with the film right away . That's Shawn Levy . The man is a hack nobody who has ZERO class or sophistication as a director . The director of Just Married and Big Fat Lair is simply not the appropriate person to helm this movie . Blake Edwards shot ALL the original Pink Panther movies in scope widescreen . Levy shoots this one like a flat TV movie with NO visual flair whatsoever . The 2 . 35 : 1 aspect ratio is sorely missed . And at the risk of sounding superficial , it could have made up for Shawn Levy's shortcomings and glossed over the fact that he is way out of his depth with a movie that should live up to high expectations . That said , the rest of the movie is a whole load of fun . Steve Martin has committed the ultimate sin any comedian can with his constant selling-out and doing generic family movies . I can't stomach this talented guy doing any more rubbish like Bringing Down the Standards and Crapper by the Dozen . I found Shopgirl to be pretty damn good , so I know he still has the potential to be great when he feels like it . But as Inspector Clouseau I thought he was hilarious ! Disagree with me if you want , but to me he fits the role perfectly . Almost everything he says or does is amusing or laugh-out-loud funny . He has great chemistry with Jean Reno and Kevin Kline and his mannerisms , patter and big-headed over-confidence are so vivid you'll probably be imitating them when you leave the cinema . The plot is kinda weak , but like so many comedies , it's just an excuse for all the set-pieces and hijinks to happen . The bulk of the humor is purely character-based or physical comedy though . The music is mostly good . I'm not really sure about the techno remixes of the Pink Panther theme however . All of Henry Mancini's cues are in there but when you add bass and a beat it's sounds cheap and corny rather than modern . Are we so uncultured we cannot handle a film with a purely orchestra-based score ? This is another little part of the film that lacks sophistication and may lead too many unforgiving scrutineers into thinking that it's all a disaster . Hence the negative publicity . Had Ivan Reitman directed the film as well as produced , we might well have had a classic . Sadly , it's helmed by a nobody . And it's barely saved by Steve Martin's wild antics . Do check it out . Turn a blind eye to the blandness and you'll find that it's actually very funny .
Like Rampage crossed with Street Fighter	By that I mean you play as monsters who beat each other up against the backdrop of trashing cities . A novel idea , but I am assuming that King of the Monsters is a game that is probably best enjoyed in the arcade . After playing the Sega Genesis version I can definitely see the appeal but it's just not that appealing to come back to it again and again . There IS loads of fun to be had in smashing the place up and doing LOADS of damage to world but I know it's going to be even better in an arcade and the Genesis controls can be a bit sluggish sometimes , which isn't good when you rely on quick reflexes . Graphics C Sound C Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
It's not a comedy	Even though it stars Jennifer Aniston of the thankfully canceled , obnoxious , fake sitcom Friends and it's written by Mike White , who wrote Orange County this is not a comedy movie , a romantic movie or a chick flick . More of a bleak drama with the feel of an independent movie . In some dead-end Texas town a supermarket checkout girl longs for a more exciting life , stares off into space with a disconnected look and moans a lot . In one of her stares she connects with Holden ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , a lonely , borderline insane young writer . A much needed affair breathes some life into her existence . I wasn't entirely satisfied with the film overall . There wasn't a good explanation for Justine actions and decisions in the film's climax . Who's baby is she carrying ? Why did she betray Holden ? She's not a good girl . Not by far . So I'm assuming the title is meant to be an ironic one . Anyone expecting Friends or Picture Perfect or Along Came Polly or Object of My Affection or any of the endless incarnations of Rachel Green be warned . . . it ain't that way . Probably the most mature work Jennifer Aniston has done . But there's still an incomplete feeling to it all . Worth watching with no pre-judgments .
And who , may I ask , is the father ?	Desperately hungry , the Pink Panther does a Yogi Bear-style theft of a picnic basket from a huge family of campers only to discover that he's actually stolen a baby instead of food when he finally settles down to eat it . He runs all the way back to return it but the family have already taken-off , apparently forgetting about their newborn . Pinky tries to leave the baby with other animals and with local Indian tribes but has no luck and the baby is promptly handed back each time . And that's about it really , he doesn't do much else . There's only a couple of laughs but they're good enough to warrant a . Otherwise , it's below average .
Still Looking	The last time we saw the Pink Panther was in Pink Pajamas , in which he was desperate for a safe , warm place to get his head down . Nothing has changed as in this cartoon he stows away in Gamble's department store for a cozy night . But the night janitor is suspicious of their uninvited guest and ends up being the butt of old Pinky's usual jokes and tricks . It's pretty funny stuff as both of them race from department to department trying out avoid and outwit each other . The Pink Panther is very cool and very cute and this is one funny cartoon . But can someone explain the title to me ?
A fairly average early Tom and Jerry short	Tom is listening to a spook story on the radio ( a form of entertainment I wish was still around ) and is so wound up by the possibility of ghosts , that he jumps in fright at every sound . Taking advantage of this for his own personal fun , Jerry tries to freak Tom out by playing pranks on him , the main one being sticking a white sheet on a vacuum cleaner and pretending it's a ghosts . Obviously Tom becomes aware of Jerry's cruel tricks in the end . It's very mildly funny though nothing really spectacular happens . I can really only recommend this to very young children as there is no real intelligence or wit to entertain an adult . Tom still looks a little rough , as he did in the early stages of his characters animation . Mammy-two-shoes shows up , but on the version I saw she was dubbed to make her sound more PC , as was common with Tom and Jerry cartoon manipulation in the early 90s .
Typical hijinks	While on vacation in Hawaii Mickey , Minnie , Donald , Goofy and Pluto get up to the usual mischief . This short mainly focuses on surfing Goofy ( in a ridiculous beach outfit ) and his many failed attempts to catch a decent wave break and Pluto who just runs about on the beach getting shells stuck on his head . Donald doesn't do much other than burn his tail feathers in the fire and Mickey just serenades Minnie with his ukulele . Not that funny ( actually a bit boring ) but vividly animated , as usual , which keeps your attention from drifting completely . Not the best Disney cartoon by far .
Mel Gibson and the Temple of Doom	Take Gibson's ego . Add an several tablespoons of Aztec . Mix with 2 parts Indiana Jones and 1 part Predator . Blend for 139 minutes and you get Apocalypto . Is that even a real word ? As hyped-up as it is , it's really nothing you ain't seen before . Jaguar-Paw and his tribe-folk live in a quaint corner of the Rainforest . One day some evil er . . . people turn up for some good old rape and pillage . Whoever is not slain is taken captive and led on a long journey to some Aztec city where they are either sold as slaves or sacrificed atop massive pyramids for the viewing pleasure of the friendly locals and the satisfaction of the Gods . Jaguar-Paw just happens to be part of a silly prophecy uttered by a dying girl and he will bring death , vengeance blah blah blah to the baddies . This scene really does belong in another movie altogether . But sure enough , just as Jaguar-Paw is about to have his heart ripped-out Mola Ram style there is an eclipse . The Aztecs believe that their God's blood-lust has been quenched so they let him go . Kinda . Jaguar Paw mutilates the Head Honcho Evil Dude's son as he begins his escape back to the destroyed village . His pregnant wife and kid are hiding at the bottom of a pit and he promised to get back to them . But Head Honcho and his bunch of psychos don't take too kindly to losing one of their own so the hunt begins . At this point the movie is basically , in many ways , the last act of Predator , only without a 7-foot tall Rastafarian or Arnie shouting ' GET TO DA CHOPPA ! ' Jaguar Paw sets several traps for the hunters and they all die one-by-one in various gory ways . You'll find something VERY familiar about all of this . It's an entertaining , if thoroughly pointless film that makes no particular statement whatsoever . Mel clearly exaggerates Aztec history to the point of the film becoming some kind of bizarre science-fiction fantasy . I really don't know where the inspiration for this film came from but if he wanted to make a timeless epic then shooting in 1 . 85 : 1 HD was a mistake . I doubt Laurence of Arabia or even his own Braveheart , as period pieces , would have been so fondly cherished if they have been shot this way . I don't see any Oscars in Apocalypto's future , but at least Mel has stayed away from offending any contemporary religions this time .
And I will always ha-ate yooooooo ! ! !	Tom and Jerry are involved in a chase , as per damn usual . Jerry , when hiding , springs Spike loose from the Pound Van . As a reward , Spike says he will help-out Jerry whenever he is in trouble . All he has to do is whistle and Spike will be there to save him . So the chase continues and just when Tom has him in his clutches , Jerry whistles for Spike and Tom gets a clobbering . Not so imaginative and the chase is kinda generic . There are a couple of sneaky tricks when Tom tries to stop Jerry from whistling but it's nothing special at all and the final gag isn't that great . A thoroughly generic cartoon .
Not much going on here .	Thunderball may have nice locations and pretty seaside scenery but there's a shocking lack in set pieces or excitement . The evil SPECTRE organisation nicks a warplane and lands it in the ocean . Within minutes they've spirited away the nuclear warheads and are demanding a ransom or they'll blow up a major city . Sounds like Broken Arrow huh ? Well the British Government are none too happy about this so they send - 007 after them . Bond has been ' relaxing ' at some sort of health farm where the culprits just so happened to be doing evil deeds so he's already way ahead of the game . Off he goes to the Bahamas ( how come super-villains never have lairs in Liverpool or Coventry ? ) to track the missing plane down and , with any luck , get the warheads back . But not before he scuba dives about a zillion times , goes to the casino and shags loads of women . Isn't he on a time limit here ? His gadgets are not THAT fancy , the action not THAT impressive but maybe I'm guilty of double standards here . I've always thought that the latest Bond movies were guilty of being nothing but spectacle and loads of SFX . They don't feel real and are increasingly being pushed into sci-fi rather than super-spy . Sp if you've had enough of the xXx style Die Another Day , something Thunderball will balance it out . But there are better Bonds than this , though it does have some nice widescreen photography and the constant sunny seaside locations will make you want to go on holiday immediately .
Fun , but repetitive and lacking in thrills	As much as I enjoyed Super Paper Mario , I just wasn't impressed by any part of it . It's a cute Mario game ( as they all are ) but I never felt like I was really playing an RPG and the endless dialogue bubbles really slow the game down . The levels are colorful and bright and look absolutely gorgeous . The music is pleasant enough but the trademark Mario theme barely gets a mention . As for the gameplay , well . . . it's standard Mario platform stuff with the new addition of flipping to 3D and some unique abilities with the Wii controller . It's nothing to write home about . For 20 hours I stuck with this game and by the bitter end I felt like I could have used that time to do something better . Honestly nothing in this game impresses and if I didn't have a photographic memory I'd be completely forgetting about it in a week . If that makes any sense . So . . . very . . . very . . . slow . I don't like video games like this . If I wanted to read a book I'd read one . In the end , it's the endless dialogue that cripples SPM . Pros : Very nice graphics . Incredibly cute . Easy to control . Giant Mario from NSMB returns ( though it's equally as brief and pointless ) Cons : Cut-scenes take FOREVER ! Way , way , waaaaaaay too much dialogue . Flipside missions are very boring . Gets tedious and repetitive about halfway through .
The best Batman film by far	Tim Burton did a good job on the first 2 movies but Joel Schumacher turned the franchise into bold-faced gay fantasy that had pretty much nothing to do with Batman at all and more in common with the camp-as-hell 1960's TV series . I can see why 8 years and a restart of the franchise is necessary in order for Batman to be taken seriously again . Christopher Nolan brings a lot of integrity and realism to the world of Bruce Wayne and is not afraid to take the action out of Gotham for long stretches of the running time . The casting is perfect too . Christian Bale is an actor I really like but hasn't been in many good films ( Equilibrium and Reign of Fire are not good films ) so I was pleased to see that he finally got a lead role worthy of him . Michael Caine was brilliant as Alfred and Morgan Freeman , for such a small role , was not wasted and his talent still shone through . Zillions of other actors turn up in smaller roles such as Rutger Hauer , Gary Oldman , Mark Boone Junior and Cillian Murphy as the Scarecrow . I never figured how the Scarecrow villain would be realized on film but it comes through as believable and , believe it or not , scary . Liam Neeson also turned his character into one of those villains you kinda half hate and half root for . However , Katie Holmes just seemed flat and boring as Rachel . Hans Zimmer's score , while appropriately dark , just seemed like every other mass-produced score he's done in the past 5 years . And no matter how much gritty realism the plot became rather stupid towards the end and was a bit too much like the ending of the original Batman . The MacGuffin device that evaporates water was ridiculous and was like something out the Adam West Batman . And can someone explain how it didn't evaporate the water in the human body and just , conveniently , the water in the sewer ? Since there are already 2 sequels confirmed I can only hope and pray that they get better . The revamp of the franchise is already off to a great start but please Warner , NO MORE ROBIN ! EVER AGAIN ! ! !
Should have been longer	I think the basic premise of this movie is quite entertaining and the movie as a whole is way better than most of the teen-based horror flicks of late . The effects may be a bit hokey and the direction lackluster but this is a way cool movie that received far less than it deserved . The plot focuses on the Djinn , that's Wishmaster to you , and his efforts to take over the world . As you can see . . . it's pure hokum but it's the gory bits in between and the Djinn's wisecracking that make this movie worth the money . The acting is bad all round , all except Andrew Divoff who ravages the role of The Djinn / Demerest with 200 % enthusiasm . I hope they release a second and more higher profile sequel soon as this is a franchise I wouldn't want to see be killed off before it's reached it's peek . I give this movie .
Pulls you head-first into unfathomable depths of mystery	I knew literally nothing of Silent Hill before I walked into the cinema , as I have never played the game or read anything of it . So I was almost free from bias or prejudice . However , video games have had a terrible history when made into movies ( Super Mario Brothers , Double Dragon , Tomb Raiders , Doom , Resident Evil ) , especially in recent years with hacks such Paul Anderson and Doctor Boll laying waste to the genre . So no matter how good I thought Silent Hill was , it still suffers with the stigma of being a video-game movie . I fear a lot of people might unfairly judge film in association with all these terrible movies even though it is millions of miles ahead of them . Since the plot of the film has been recited a zillion times before I will only give a brief outline . A narcoleptic girl has visions of a ghost town named Silent Hill . Her mother drives to this town to figure out the connection but the girl goes missing . Suddenly three separate timelines begin to exist at once and things become very confusing . But not to the point of incoherence . Christoph Gans takes the material very seriously and never once sells himself out or disrespects the story by making it simple . The amount of atmosphere he forges is incredible , but I only expected this from the director of Brotherhood of the Wolf . The cinematography is often perfect and world of Silent Hill is so vividly realised that you might get a shock when you walk back out into the sunny real world . It is , at once , both beautiful and horrifying . Gans ' original cut is rumored to have been over 200 minutes long . If so , that is one Director's Cut DVD I would love to own . Mystery and horror go hand-in-hand and in Silent Hill we get ample amounts of both . Most of it is kept in the dark and never fully explained to the audience , which keeps us on our toes and just as perplexed as the characters living in the movie . The complex storytelling is involving but never so sophisticated that it will alienate an unthinking audience . But I didn't like the ' big explanation ' at the end . While it certainly doesn't explain everything , I felt that the images used in this brilliantly conceived scene were enough without the narration . But like all good mystery movies , Silent Hill continues it's fantastical darkness after the credits role by ending on a very curious and intriguing note . Go see and judge for yourself . You'll be surprised at how much this movie is by far the best mystery AND horror film of 2006 so far .
Good to see Sonic back in his 2D form	While I liked Sonic Adventure I was not very keen on it's sequel or Sonic Heroes . The blue hedgehog and his pals simply do not belong in a 3D world and I was more than eager to get this game as it is a return to good old days of Sonic's previous incarnations on the Genesis . Everything you would have liked about the old Sonic is back . The level designs , the power-ups , the cool music and gameplay that next-gen consoles lacked . However fun the game is to play , it doesn't have much replay value . There are secret entrances in every level to the special stage and I only found one of them . Sorry , but I'm not going to replay every level looking for the special stages . The special stages themselves are kinda hard and there's no way I'd be able to get through all of them . Although turning into Super Sonic , as a result of winning them , would have been cool . Included on this cartridge is the Chao Garden . If you have a link cable to your Gamecube and you have Sonic Adventure 1 or 2 , you can transport your Chao onto your Gameboy and keep it as a sort of Tamagochi . When transporting them a pipe will appear on both screens and suck them up and plop them down . It's really quite cool and one of the few reasons to keep going back to the game . Still , I will without a doubt be getting Sonic Advance 2 and 3 , regardless . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
I like it better than the first .	Remember the end of the original ? Dr . Herbert West was being strangled by a rampaging intestine . But don't worry , he's not dead . The zombie responsible didn't have the guts for it . Now , five years after the massacre at Miskatonic University , he's in some South American hell-hole in the middle of a civil war using his re-animation serum on dead or wounded soldiers . As soon as the conflict boils over into revolution he legs it out of there with the naive / loyal Dr . Cain and heads back to Arkham Hospital . Acting as if none of the previous carnage ever happened , they return to their normal jobs . Dr . Cain grows attached to a young girl dying of cancer and West is secretly stealing all the best body parts to make his own complete woman using the heart of Cains dead girlfriend . A nosy Detective interferes and starts poking around as well as delivering the head of long dead Dr . Hill to Dr . Graves , the new Chief Pathologist at Arkham ( there sure are loads of Doctors in this film huh ? ) . Graves reanimates the head of Hill but refuses to do his bidding and chucks it in the bucket . A move he will come to regret . The hokum goes into overdrive for this sequel . There's more atmosphere and more potential to be really scary . It's never fully realized as the film is too blackly funny to be frightening . But there's more going on in the climax as all the factions and body parts come together . The allusion to Frankenstein is much more apparent and the Freudian subtext of 2 men creating life without the use of a woman adds a curious depth to the mayhem . You could call Bride of Re-Animator lots of negative words like corny , cheesy , dumb etc . But you'd be missing the point . Yes , it's a bit too pulpy to truly echo H . P . Lovecraft's original work . But the numerous zombies , monsters and demons are something I reckon Howard Phillips would love . Gore fans will really dig the blood and make-up effects . There's loads of gruesomeness and severed limbs and guts spilled all over the place . It's the kind of thing Fangoria magazine would have an 8-page feature of . Plentiful amounts of puss and nastiness from the KNB Effects Group and Screaming Mad George respectively . If you like the first you will surely want this movie in your collection . There is yet to be a decent DVD of it but hunt it down and prove me right . I can only hope that Beyond Re-Animator will be just as good , if not better .
A rather mild cartoon	This late-80's cartoon is quite easy-going but not that funny . Still , it's Daffy Duck and he's very cute . It begins with Daffy reading a horror comic book ( having already read his Mad Magazine ) and going crazy when he can't find the second issue of a two-part cliffhanger . In his desperate search a heavy clock falls off his bookcase and whacks him on the head . Now begins a dream sequence in which Daffy is a lounge singer for all the classic movie monsters including Dracula , Frankenstein's monster and his bride , the wolfman , creature from the black lagoon , Leatherface and er . . . Alfred E . Neuman . Daffy gets over his nerves by swallowing a few cloudbursts of voice tonic , which does wonders for his lisp , thus turning him ( almost ) into Frank Sinatra . He then sings an easy-going song called ' Monsters Lead Such Interesting Lives ' which seems to make everyone happy . As his dream ends he finds his missing comic and all is well . A strange , offbeat Looney Tunes short indeed and a rather somber note for Mel Blanc to go out on . This cartoon was part of Daffy's feature-length Quackbusters cartoon .
No winners here	This short begins with Tom using Jerry as a yo-yo for his own pleasure before Mammy-Two-Shoes ( dubbed to appease the PC Brigade in the version I saw ) orders him out of the house for the night , despite the fact that it's pouring with rain . Why does she insist on torturing him like this again ? Anyway , Tom pretends to be ill so he can stay indoors , by the fire . But Jerry is having none of it . He convinces Tom that he has measles by paining dots on his face and proceeds to ' cure ' him using a wide range of gruesome anecdotes , which make up the visual humor of the cartoon . In the end , they both pay for their untruths . An amusing cartoon .
Seaman Goofy	This is actually a rather funny cartoon that details the history of man on the oceans . From the first log and paddle to the battleships of today . All demonstrated by Goofy and for once he's entertaining . The narration is quite sarcastic and makes fun of Goofy at every turn . He's just an ordinary sailor up to endless hijinks on the seas . But , being a war propaganda cartoon it does turn to Xenophobia at a certain point . In once scene Goofy is fired out as a torpedo and blows up several ' Jap ' submarines . The manner in which this is delivered to us would NEVER be allowed today . Even in the current political climate , Disney wouldn't produce a cartoon like this . Still , it's funny and full of silly humor .
Many Broken Hearts	No one seems to have a good time or find love in this Peanuts TV special . Charlie gets no Valentine cards , Linus misses out on his opportunity to give chocolates to his favorite teacher and Shroeder vows to never marry Lucy , much to her anger . It's kinda downbeat for a Valentine's TV special . So much so that kids from all over America sent Charlie Brown a Valentine's card out of sympathy . Which is quite sweet when you think about it . As long as they were all girls . Still , it's another funny and timeless TV special that you should definitely make the effort of watching if it comes on this Feb 14th . Though it might depress you if you yourself do not receive any Valentine's card .
Sorry Jack , Chucky's back !	Universal must have realized the potential this franchise had and quickly snapped up the rights from MGM after the first movie came out . Writer Don Mancini also must have figured out that his creation of a foul-mouthed killer doll was too good for just one film . The Chucky series would seriously evolve and change over the years but even in this first sequel things are already looking quite different . Now that the cat is out of the bag and we know that Chucky really is alive and it isn't just Andy's imagination , our killer doll gets much more screen time and his wicked personality has more time to develop . The animatronics have improved and a lot of Chucky's character comes through in his wild facial expressions . Director John Lafia shoots the film with a bright , playroom color pallet with a higher quality film stock , giving it a more sophisticated sparkle . He's also fully aware of how silly the killer doll concept is and seizes the opportunity for a little bit of that self-aware , sometimes sarcastic humor seen in the later films . Graeme Revell usually does the most generic horror scores , especially in recent years , but surprisingly he gives Child's Play 2 the best score of the series . With a full orchestra at his disposal , he doesn't hold back on the action cues and even delivers a couple of pretty good themes . So much better than the rotten score to the first film and probably one of the best horror scores of the early 90s . There isn't much of a story to Child's Play 2 however . It's just the same as the first , with Chucky going after Andy , who is now staying with a foster family , once more . The body count is higher and there are some good kills . I've heard people complain about the ' silly ' spanking death of the schoolteacher . Well , this ain't true . Chucky is actually hacking at her . If you look closely you'll see the blood all over the yardstick . The slick quality and silly nature of CH2 is probably what prompted Universal to stick with the franchise for good and 15 years later the Chucky films are still coming out . To think that if MGM held on to the rights , we may never have had them .
Completely mad	Turbulence is just plain stupidity from beginning to end . But there is so much fun to be had in the madness that it's always worth a mindless watch . Our silly plot has Ray Liotta and Brendan Gleeson as serial killer and bank robber breaking loose from their captors aboard a virtually empty cross-country flight , killing the pilots and FBI before the runaway plane flies into a hurricane . Liotta promptly eliminates Gleeson and chases after stewardess Lauren Holly . All on Xmas Eve . Yes it's highly ridiculous . But director Robert Butler brings strong , vigorous direction piles on loads of wild atmosphere and lets cinematographer Lloyd Ahern get carried away with his consistently stunning , crisp photography . Action movies today nearly always have some ironic or political edge . Turbulence is just violence and action just for the sake of it . And why not . This is not a film made to change your life . It's just renegade entertainment . Ray Liotta isn't quite scary as the serial killer as he goes way over the top . But , thankfully , is never campy ( always a mistake when playing serial killers , coughhannibalcough ) . If your into movies about nasty Xmas ' then this , Gremlins and Silent Night , Deadly Night are the movies you ought to watch . The R1 DVD is in very cool Dolby 5 . 1 and is shown in the incorrect aspect ratio of 1 . 78 : 1 ( 16x9 enhanced ) instead of the theatrical 2 . 35 : 1 . The R2 DVD however is in Dolby 2 . 0 Surround but shows the film in the proper ratio of 2 . 35 : 1 .
A mixed bag , but still a lot of fun ( or should that be phun )	When we last saw Mike and Reggie the Tall Man had cornered them on a lonely highway and seemed to have gained the upper hand . For some reason , he's interested in kidnapping Mike for his own evil purposes . Reg threatens to blow them all up unless the Tall Man backs offs . He agrees , but threatens to strike again in the near future . Badly concussed , Mike falls into a coma where he has a vision of his dead brother Jody telling him that he must choose to live in order for the cryptic game plan of the Tall Man's to work out . At that moment Mike wakes to find a demonic nurse about to drill a hole in his head and sentinel sphere buzzing around in the hospital . Reg intrudes on the scene saves him , but not without getting a mouthful of puss , and they hide out in his desert base where they can come up with a plan before the Tall Man's next strike . But before you can say ' boooooooooooy ! ! ! ' he's back and spirits Mike away to another dimension , leaving Reg knocked out on the floor . Not knowing where he is or what happened Reg takes off across country with the burned-out sphere from the hospital as his only clue . It appears that the Tall Man has harvested the dead from dozens of towns across the Pacific Northwest , leaving entire counties to crumble . He teams up with a resourceful kid and an ex-army chick to find Mike and continue his hunt for the Tall Man while dwarfs , sentinel spheres , gravediggers and zombies are all on their trail . The following hokum will seem very familiar as it's almost exactly what happened in Phantasm II , so while it's certainly not original in this respect I still found it to be loads of fun as the pace just doesn't let up and new characters and locations keep popping up to keep things interesting . Don Coscarelli answers some questions we've been literally dying to ask but there seems to be a conspiracy going on and the Tall Man is keeping his mouth shut . We know there's more story developing that what is obvious but good luck trying to figure it out . The mystical , foreboding nature of Phantasm is a bit stronger here than it was in the first sequel . Unfortunately , so is the humor . The distinct lack of anything funny is what gave the original film such a weird edge and the series ' increasing tendency to be an Evil Dead gorefest isn't entirely appropriate . The gore is gruesome and plentiful but not exactly chilling . I don't feel that Don Coscarelli has found the perfect mix of action , sci-fi and horror with this film to best suit the series , but it is entertaining . It seems like he's pushing his luck just a little bit in trying to cram out another film without developing too many ideas . Unimaginative is certainly not a word you could use to describe the Phantasm franchise , but this film does seem like a lot of recycled scenarios from Phantasm II . On the plus side , A . Michael Baldwin ( the original actor ) returns as Mike as well as Jodie so we now have the entire original cast back . Reg is just plain brilliant and while he may not be up to the wacky standards of Ash he's still a hoot to watch and seems to balance the serious and the jokey very well . But , as always , Angus Scrimm scores the most points as the Tall Man . He's cool , he's evil and his mysterious nature makes him all the more scarier . Unforgiving horror fans may not like it very much as it does kind of follow the typical path of other horror franchises but there's still enough energy and weirdness to keep Phantasm fans happy and it does move very fast . All I'm going to say is that Don Coscarelli better come up with some new and shocking ideas to keep Phantasm IV fresh .
Pleasant journey	After the extremely dull Perils of Cupid this next adventure of Young Indiana Jones is a helluva lot more interesting . His first adventure takes place in Russia , where his parents are staying in a castle with a bunch of important people . Indy gets into trouble and his dad gets furious . Tired of his parents ' rules he runs away and meets an old man who just so happens to be Leo Tolstoy , the famous author of War and Peace . As they both try to flee from their families across the Russian countryside both Indy and Tolstoy learn from each other and develop quite a touching relationship . In the end they realize that going home is the best thing to do , but not before an interesting trade . In the second half Indy travels to Athens where his tutor takes ill . His mother whisks her away to a spa leaving Indy all alone with his dad . Not knowing how to deal with the boy on his own , Henry Jones Snr . takes Indy to all the important historical sites Athens has to offer . At first he's strict and hard , as per usual , but as soon as Indy starts to take in all of the lectures he lightens up and they have their own crazy adventure after a flock of sheep eat their clothes while skinny dipping . I've said it before but Lloyd Owen really does do a good impersonation of Sean Connery and , eye color aside , he convinces as a younger version of the Henry Jones Snr . we saw in The Last Crusade . It still doesn't have any definitive imagery , unlike the movies , but makes for entertaining viewing on a wet afternoon nonetheless .
So he's . . . the bad guy ?	Okay , I'm confused . The Mummy Returns portrays the Scorpion King as some evil tyrant who wants to take over the world by smiting any and all civilizations in his way . But that's exactly the opposite of the same character in his very own movie . In fact he struggles to overthrow an evil ruler for those very reasons . So when , and why , did he become bad ? I'm afraid I'm not following this . The movie , however , is entertaining , if rather short and silly . Chuck Russell tries to cram in loads of fighting and hokum as he can . It works and The Rock is very cool as said King ( or Mathayus ) and former Jason victim Kelly Hu is gorgeous as the scantily-clad Cassandra . Grant Heslov and Michael Clarke Duncan fill out their usual roles as ethnic comic-relief and big , muscley guy . The film has slightly less integrity to it than the Mummy movies . This is evident with the fun and lively , but completely inappropriate , score by John Debney . I'm not expecting anything like his Passion of the Christ score but blaring death metal guitars seem kinda out of place in a movie set 3000 years BC . But this movie is a cheeseburger , not a 17-course dinner . So why bother complaining . After all it's a prequel of a sequel of a movie that was a re-make of a movie that was made in the 30's . But it's well made and loads of fun so just go along with it and you'll enjoy . Filmed in Panavision the DVD is in perfect 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with very loud and thrilling Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 sound . The extras are fluff , but that's to be expected .
Howard , forever the Underduck	Let me tell you something about film critics . It's easy to pick faults in someone else's work , even if you do not have it in your power to create an equal work of art . The average film critic , by his very nature , is just a pretentious know-it-all who is quite frequently talking from the wrong end of his alimentary canal . When HTD came along in 1986 it was the first true victim to the pop culture critic . For 22 years it has been called ' the biggest flop of all time ' and other such terrible labels . Well , it cost $30 million dollars ( nothing compared to today's budgets ) and took $37 million worldwide and that's not even counting the higher-than-you-think rental revenue . Add it altogether and HTD is most definitely NOT the flop it is accused of being . But since it was a rather eccentric family comedy ( an easy target ) and one of the first films to significantly under-perform at the domestic box office ( George Lucas expected the returns to be astronomical ) it became a scapegoat for bad studio spending and taste . I guess that the world needs something or someone to blame when pop culture goes wrong and the jackass critics I mentioned already seized upon Howard's failings to make a name for themselves . Derogatory soundbites are easy to come up with and everyone who hated the film used some kind of duck-themed insult to put it down and make themselves feel clever . But , when you think about it , these are basically the same people who will deliberately give a bad film a great review just to see their own name on the poster ( yes , I am talking to you Paul Ross ) . The film also suffered a further bad rep when George Lucas publicly disowned the film . It's under-performance forced him to sell off a part of his company which went on to become Pixar ( think of how much he could have earned if he didn't ) and it really made him quite angry . Wouldn't you be ? Me ? I am a huge fan of the late Steve Gerber's comic-books . HTD was basically the first BIG comic-book movie and came surprisingly soon after he found success in his own series . Howard first appeared in an issue of Man-Thing and starred in a few other issues of Conan and even Spider-Man before getting his own wings in the late 70s . The comic-book stories are the most surreal , archaic and satirical I have ever read and it's a shame that they had to tone it down for the movie , but that's to be expected . As an ordinary duck working for an advertising company on his home planet of Duckworld , Howard is blasted across the universe right out of his living room by an experimental laser developed by Dr . Jenning ( Jeffrey Jones ) . He lands in Cleveland , where he meets Beverly Switzler ( Lea Thompson ) a singer who takes him under her wing . . . I mean arm . Now trapped in a world he never made the one attempt at sending him back home unleashes the forces of the Dark Overlord of the Universe on earth through the possession of Dr . Jenning and he intends to bring more of his demons through the portal . Yeah , that sounds pretty heavy . I'm actually a sucker for duck-related stuff . I don't know why . Donald Duck , Daffy Duck , Duck Tales , Darkwing Duck , Duckman etc . The list goes on and on . What I particularly like about the HTD movie is how most people seem to be completely at ease at talking to a humanoid bird . Some of the fairer critics claimed that the film might have been a bigger hit if they had used CGI or traditional animation to bring Howard to life , but I must disagree . Part of the appeal of Howard is the fact that he is actually physically there and not some ghost who has been photo-shopped in afterwards . I love the duck suit , to me it is completely convincing and Chip Zien's voice work is perfect . I'd totally love to have Howard as a pal . No joke , this film has a unfairly notorious history and a totally wrong perception by the general public or those who turned their noses and beaks up when it came out in 1986 . Clear your head of any preconceptions that you might have and enjoy it on its own level . Though we really could have done without that silly narration over the opening title .
Brosnan's best Bond adventure	I was never very keen on Brosnan as James Bond . He always seemed like he was trying to be a smart-ass instead of a hard-ass . I remember when Goldeneye came out back in November 1995 the media were raving about it being a new Bond for a new era but to me it actually felt quite regressive . After the angry , extremely tough Dalton Bond we went back to big , dumb set-pieces , maniacal villains bent on world domination and crude sex jokes . Thankfully Tomorrow Never Dies was significantly better , though it's far from being brilliant . The main problem with TND is that it's clearly just a bunch of action scenes with a thin plot concocted to string them together . I guess this is acceptable since not every Bond movie has to be a 2-hour + affair and it does feel very fast-paced in contrast to the slow , lumbering dinosaur that was The World Is Not Enough which followed two years later . Teri Hatcher gets to look pretty as Bond's former squeeze now married to Elliot Carver , a man who is very much insane and plans to take over the world with his tabloid newspaper that is so sleazy it would make the Daily Sport look like Dickens . Unfortunately , she's not got much to do after her husband finds out and has her killed . Then we're left with Wai Lin , a clumsy Chinese agent who isn't the kind of woman who instantly throws her helpless self into Bond's arms . I like tough women and there's a lot of fun to be had in watching her beat up random bad guys . It's a shame that Brosnan's scripts got even worse after TWINE . Die Another Day is affront to the franchise and among the rubble of three dull movies ol ' Pierce only got to shine in this one . Dante's Peak was good though .
More of the same	Yes , the original R-Type was brilliant . And of course a sequel was more than welcome . But the sequel we got was just far too similar to the first . It feels more like an expansion pack than anything else . The first level of R-Type II is virtually the exact same as before . Even the music hasn't changed . Level 2 did feature a cool , and very hard , underwater stage and there were a couple of new power ups for that crazy force orb . But it was all just too samey . IREM didn't put much imagination into this game at all . On its own , when not standing next to the first , R-Type II is still a great game but is no-doubt a rip-off when regarded as a sequel . With all of the pale imitations of R-Type that followed the original's release then they should have tried harder to make this something special .
Cool sequel . . .	. . . that improves on the original in almost all areas . The franchise is still low profile but worth attention . Wishmaster 2 chucks in some new ideas and mythology but only retains one cast member . And that is Andrew Divoff in the role of The Djinn / Demerest . Once again he is simultaneously witty , evil , cunning and wisecracking . There are a few more recognisable faces in this one . Like Tiny Lister and that guy from Devils Advocate . I'm sorry I can't remember his name . Wishmaster 2 has more humor than the first and it's a welcome relief among the demonic goings on to have some jokes . Especially when they come from the timing-perfect Wishmaster himself . I give this movie
Deja vu	This cartoon reminded me a lot of a previous Donald short called Clock Cleaners . The same high rise / vertigo gags are used but that doesn't stop it from being funny . Donald is washing windows while Pluto down on the ground sends up fresh buckets of water . But he's to busy napping and ignores Donald when prompted with a hook to the head . Instead Donald snares a bucket of bolts ( why would a window washer have a bucket of bolts ? ) and smashes a huge pane of glass with it . But his troubles aren't over as a bee makes it his mission to sting Donald for soaking him . Despite some erection / impotence imagery at the end with the bee struggling to make a decent sting , it's amusing .
Very Imaginative	After falling asleep reading Alice Through the Looking Glass , Mickey dreams about walking through the mirror and entering and opposite world where almost everything is alive and has a personality . Sort of in the same way as all those annoying , singing teacups in the awful Beauty and the Beast movie . There are many references to Alice in Wonderland of course , some subtle , some obvious and some intelligent . Though it's all great fun and wildly imaginative . It's these sort of cartoons that made Disney Studios and Mickey Mouse legendary . In a way , it's the success of cartoon like this that are to blame for the existence of stuff like The Haunted Mansion . But that's just the pessimist in me .
You don't like pussy on the hair ?	Pierre Woodman's laughable attempts at English don't seem to curb his cool when he is seducing women and ' auditioning ' them for porn . The first has a girl called Baby Lou do a scene with Pierre , which includes anal . But it's boring and not worth watching . The second scene stars Sunny Blue , who is absolutely gorgeous . She takes on 3 guys but there is no anal or DP . What a rip-off ! The third has Gaby Black and Monica take on 3 guys . They include boring vibrator action ( so not interesting in the slightest ) and eventually , after what seems like hours , get round to DP . It's good but Monica moans too much . Fourth has Pierre and James Brossman ' bump into ' and ' pick-up ' a random chick in the mall . They take her to a hotel room where , upon revealing her heavily tattooed and hairless body Pierre utters the line of my review title . The sex involves condoms ( boo ! ) and includes okay anal . Next , up is Dita . She's not much to look at but has a great body and gets a vigorous DP from James Brossman and another guy . Last is Anne Kiray , she's nice looking and looks rather seductive swimming around in a Turkish spa naked but the sex and DP that follows is a bit boring . Every scene is introduced by the beautiful Vivienn , who wears loads of different clothes but never actually gets naked ! ! ! A bit above average as a whole .
Stops short of being a great comic-book movie .	As far as most comic-book movies go , they usually follow the same-old path of showing us the origins of whatever hero for about 45 minutes before getting into a real ( but usually superficial ) plot . This can lead to a never-ending list of deadbeats such Hulk , Spider-Man and Catwoman and rarely ends up with a good movie ( Batman Begins is one rare example ) . Guillermo Del Toro seems to make a compromise of introducing Baby Hellboy during the end of WWII and then flashing forward 60 years to adult HB ( though genetically he's barely out of his 20s ) working for the Government . The Beurau of Paranormal Research uses Hellboy as a weapon against the forces of evil . Being a demon from Hell himself , but preferring to fight for the good side , HB works with Abe Sabien ( a very likable sort of fish-man ) and his pyro-kinetic would-be girlfriend Liz . Raised by Professor Broom ( John Hurt ) he regularly has fallings out with his human father and even hides his cigarette smoking from him . I find the stroppy teenager attitude a unique character quirk that works well . What's even cooler is HB fondness for cats . Which not a typical characteristic of a demon born in Hell . The world's last living super-evil Nazis resurrect the mad-monk Grigori Rasputin and aim to bring about Armageddon by awakening sleeping Lovecraftian Gods , frozen in time at the edge of the universe . A tough job , even for HB , but it's all in a days work for the Beurau of Paranormal Research . Del Toro works wonders in bringing to life atmospheric sets ( check out the flooded subway station ) and horrific creatures but stops short of making Hellboy a dark epic . The CGI is impressive and the visions of Hell are interesting but there's just some intangible element that seems to be missing and the film feels incomplete . Even the Director's Cut still feels a bit alienating . However the action and humor is quite entertaining and the villains ( especially 107-year-old , crazed assassin Kroenen ) are definitely the kind you want to see die horribly . Enjoy it for what it is , even if you feel it's not entirely wholesome by the end .
Just go to bed with them already !	What is it with Indy and only kissing the girls he likes ? Bond would have them naked in a heartbeat . After escaping Mexico with Remy in tow Indy travels to Ireland and ends up in the middle of a catholic / protestant stand-off . It interesting to get an early 19th century perspective on this conflict but most of it takes a backseat to Indy's pointless romance with a boring girl who mistakes him for a millionaire and wants to go shopping all the time . I would demand sex in return for this but Indy just lets them use him . If there were nothing in it for me I'd show her the door . Luckily she's gone by the second half . After that Indy and Remy go to London to sign up for the Belgian Army and he meets the feisty Victoria Prentiss ( Elizabeth Hurley , when she was an actress and not a . . . whatever she is now ) , a suffragette bus conductor who clashes with his old tutor Miss Seymour . The romance doesn't last ( or get as far as the bedroom ) however as Indy is soon whisked off to the front lines when he is called for duty . Not exactly packed with adventure but still worth a watch .
What is the aim of the game ?	Okay , this was one of those really , really dated adventure games on the C64 . The kind that was made entirely of text written on a screen and you typed in what you wanted the character to do . How on earth people managed to play these ( me included ) is beyond belief . Especially as this game was nigh-impossible . The game began with Bruce Banner tied hand and foot to a chair , for some reason . How do you get out ? Type in ' bite lip ' . This makes Bruce get mad and turn into the Hulk . Obviously breaking free from the chair . But gas floods the room you are in , for some reason , and you turn back into Bruce . There is a ring on the floor but it's too heavy to lift . There is a button on the wall . I can't remember what it's for . If you walk out of the room ( actually a big glass dome , for some reason ) you will suffer the mercy of high gravity , for some reason , and be crushed and die and go into a state of limbo . For some reason . It was infuriating . My best pal and I puzzled over this game for far longer than it was worth . I remember once actually being able to get outside of the dome but ants came along and ate the Hulk , for some reason . Since no one ever remembers or has heard of this game I guess no one will ever , ever read my review .
Good Mousekeeping	Despite winning an Oscar the PC Brigade still managed to have this short censored to keep us sheltered people in the 21st century safe from whatever material was appropriate in 1948 . Jerry babysits little Nibbles for Thanksgiving , trouble is the baby mouse likes to eat a bit too much , and after they help themselves to Tom's milk a small war begins with Nibbles and Jerry dressed as settlers and Tom dressed as an Native American . The dinner table ( set for guests unknown ) is their battleground and the cutlery are their weapons . The cuts made to this cartoon are very noticeable , but it doesn't distract too much from the overall enjoyment .
Enjoyable pulp nonsense .	Mad Mel is Porter , a crafty crook out for revenge on his wife and cohorts after they betray him for a meagre amount of stolen money and leave him for dead . Five months later , a not-dead Porter returns , recuperated and motivated by pure rage . He wants his end of the stolen money ( $70 , 000 ) , nothing more . And he's prepared to start killing off Syndicate Thugs one by one , working his way up the food chain until he gets to boss Kris Krisopherson . If only they would part with their petty $70 , 000 ! Shot and narrated in a very pulpy style , Payback almost seems like a gritty 1970s revenge thriller . But it doesn't seem to go all the way and injects humor into the proceedings , which contrasts with the genre . The humor is entertaining and works as a breather between the action scenes , but it would have been a better and more original film if it was tough all the way through . I guess that the producers wanted Payback to be more of a Lethal Weapon movie rather than an homage to Point Blank or Death Wish . It can't be written-off though . For what it is , it's very entertaining , fast-moving and witty . Just not the kind of film it was aiming to be .
Play it in the arcade	Remember the movie Re-Animator , based on the short stories by HP Lovecraft ? Remember the crazy Doctor Herbert West , played so wildly by Jeffrey Combs ? Well it seems that Doctor West has been dabbling some more into bad science and has created an army of freaks and monsters . He's long since vanished but the monsters still live in his mansion . You play a college nerd called Rick Taylor who has to rescue his girl ( a popular feature in beat-em-up games at the time ) from this house of madness . Rick is aided in his mission by a special Aztec sacrificial mask which gives him superhuman strength and powers to go zombie-bashing . Splatterhouse is a very hard game to across . Either you play the arcade machine ( now very , very hard to find ) or you buy a Turbo-Grafx PC Engine and get the home-console version , which is so horribly censored that it even deletes the cut-scenes . Thus making the game completely storyless . Still , it's a cool-looking game and one can really tell where a lot of Resident Evil's influences came from . At one point in the game , the character of Rick walks through a giant vagina and battles evil foetuses . As a side-scrolling beat-em-up it's pretty weak . There's no real impact to the fighting and the controls feel somewhat sluggish . Seriously , the Arcade is the only place to go if you want to have a go at Splatterhouse . The Turbo-Grafx version neuters the game to the point of no-fun-ism .
Bloodier than a butcher's bathroom .	I pretty much enjoyed everything there was to Azumi . For a 2-hour plus film , I never once really felt the running time . It just seemed to pass in a breeze . The only films that feel this way for me are films that have one great scene after another and Azumi delivers exactly that . Character development , while not slight , takes a backseat to the action and atmosphere . Azumi is an orphan raised by a Samurai master to be an assassin of evildoers . Set in feudal Japan , there are many warlords for Azumi and her fellow assassins to eliminate so they can bring peace to the land . You might think that you've seen enough Sword-fighting movies in the past few years but Azumi really does out-do Kill Bill , House of Flying Daggers and The Last Samurai . Those movies lacked the atmosphere . Despite a few moments of overblown sound-effects , Azumi is filled with mainly silent sound design with no more than quietly blowing trees or howling wind in the background . The remote wilderness settings and wonderfully balanced photography certainly go well with this irregular sound design . So many movies are all about noise and chaos , it's refreshing to come across one that goes against the grain . I totally recommend Azumi and I am looking forward to seeing the sequel . I do wish I saw the 143-minute Director's cut however . Don't let subtitles put you off , you're ignoring a whole other world of good movies if you do .
The best Shinobi game	After ' Revenge ' the Shinobi games went downhill quite bit with the rather tepid Shadow Dancer . I know I'm not the only person in the world who was disappointed with the Genesis port because the arcade version ( and even the Commodore 64 version ) was so much better ( and almost completely different ) . Shinobi III goes back to the gameplay of ' Revenge ' and gives us more of the same only with improved graphics ( great stuff for a simple 16-bit Genesis ) and different locations . A rather cool horseback and surfboard level is included too . We also get a new climbing ability , which is quite cool . And the bad guys still explode when you kill them , for some reason . It starts out quite easy but gets rather hard towards the end . You'll be screaming with anger in the rockfall and aircraft levels . However , the bad guys still do nothing but wait for you to kill them and the worst thing for you is simply falling down bottomless pits . Anyone who enjoyed ' Revenge ' will no doubt get a kick out of Shinobi III . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
A non-obnoxious and sober family movie .	I'm sick of arrogant animated movies that force us into thinking they're great even though they're classless exercises in poor taste and franchise milking . Recent examples include Finding Nemo , The Incredibles and , worst of all , Shark Tale . Dreamworks seems to be the worst among all this . Their basic logic is ' Let's see what Pixar is doing and copy that ' . Come on ! Pixar gave us A Bugs Life so Dreamworks gave us Antz . Pixar do Finding Nemo so Dreamworks do Shark Tale . Pixar do Monsters Inc so Dreamworks do Shrek ( which turned out to be quite good ) . But that's beside the point . There are 2 main concerns for all studios involved in making computer animated movies . The first is to make each more realistic looking than the last . I don't care about this . I don't care how fancy the computer you made the film on is . I don't care how long you spent making it . How about some actual story or dignity ? None of these films have that . Sure they have some moronical done-to-death a thousand times before messages that masquerade as a stories and can easily fool a 3 year old but the one thing they all have in common is tastelessness . The second concern is the merchandising . Where the REAL money from the movie is made ! I would like to say the Polar Express is different but I dread the forthcoming Polar Express toys , books , pyjamas , monopoly set , happy meal / kids club meal , rucksack , video games , legal forms , stationary sets , airships , warheads . . . Christ almighty in 1987 Mel Brooks was only kidding when he mentioned the Spaceballs Flamethrower ( a fave with the kids ) but merchandising really is going this far . Too far . If Warner can resist this temptation with The Polar Express it will give the film an everlasting integrity that immediately ranks it higher than all the other aforementioned movies . The film itself is good , if not great . It borrows heavily from Kenji Mayizawa's Night on the Galactic Railroad in regards to the constant quietness and sense of mystery ( oh and the big magical train that comes out of nowhere ) . My only problem is with the awkward boy the story focuses on . Yes , I know he's only a computer animation but he is extremely ugly and has an inhumanly awful , constantly blank expression . He's becoming a bit of Scrooge / Grinch . He doesn't believe in Xmas anymore and is even trying to convince his little sister of the physical impossibilities of Santa being real . As he tries to sleep Xmas Eve away a massive steam trains parks outside his house . It's the Polar Express and its final destination is Santa's Workshop . The train is filled with other kids ( the reasons for them being there are never defined ) and led by a wise old conductor ( Tom Hanks in one of many roles ) who is determined to restore the boy's faith in Xmas . Robert Zemeckis ' direction is mature and well-paced . There is particular attention to the sound design and narrative that no other recent animated movie has . Sound design is not all about chucking in loads of bass , a loud score and zany sound effects as a story is not just an excuse for events in the film to happen . This is something Zemeckis understands and he floods the film with warm colors , atmospheric landscapes and sense of magic that very nearly comes together but does not fully gel . There's something missing in The Polar Express that I can't put my finger on . Even Alan Silvestri's wonderful , lively and enchanting score falls a couple of notches short of brilliance . It's one of his best but it's just missing . . . something . Still it's far better than any other Xmas movie for the past 10 years ( Bad Santa not included ) . Puh-lease Warner , don't sell out this film . I don't want a Polar Express toilet seat . Let this film transcend the common stock . It's already one of those special Xmas movies that you can watch every year and I'll surely buy the DVD when it comes out . But I won't buy the toilet seat . An important animated movie for sensible grown-ups and well-behaved kids . Braindead adults and hyperactive brats can go see the Incredibles . Keep them away from Polar Express , they won't enjoy .
Is it a bird ? Is it a plane ?	No , it's a large , anthropomorphic pink cat . The Pink Panther is sitting in hammock reading a super-hero comic-book and wishes to be one himself . He nicks a pink cape from a nearby washing-line ands sets about rescuing and helping people in need . Only he's really , really bad at it and would be better off not interfering with them at all as pain and suffering are about the only things he's good for . Some of the visual gags are funny and each bad situation as a fair amount of invention to it . It adds up to an above average cartoon and no matter what he does , Pinky is my hero .
Funny !	I remember watching this on BBC2 when I was about 8 years old and finding it hysterical . So , much to my pleasure , Universal has released it on DVD ( Region 2 only ) along with many other Laurel and Hardy movies . I chose to watch the black and white version as that is how I originally saw it . There is an extended opening featuring a remake of 1928's ' From Soup to Nuts ' short in which Stan and Ollie cause havoc at a swanky dinner party before being employed as street sweepers . During their sweeping lunch break they inadvertently foil a bank robbery and as a reward they are sent to Oxford for a good education , perhaps finally getting them out of the gutter . Once there , the students ( including a young Peter Cushing ) play all sorts of pranks on them and Stan loses ( or restores ) his memory when he is hit on the back of the head . Now he's Lord Paddington ( I must add he does brilliantly with the accent ) and he gives Ollie some amount of grief for his weight . Very funny indeed , I suggest you check it out whenever it comes on TV .
DePalma shoots himself in the foot with the dumbest opening scene ever .	Fortunately the rest of the film is good enough to make up for it . The opening shows Carlito Brigante , former criminal , being hauled away in a stretcher , covered in blood after being shot . Well , now I know how the film ends . The suspense of the film's climax is ruined if we immediately know his fate . Duh ! Pacino ( surely more deserving of an Academy Award here than he was for his overrated performance in Scent of a Woman ) narrates us through the last week or so of Carlito Brigante's life as he is let out of jail after five years out of thirty for mitigates circumstances coming to light . Determined to go straight , Carlito shrugs off all advances from crooks old and new but is eventually drawn back into a quagmire of trouble by his cokehead lawyer ( Sean Penn dressed up as Disco Stu from The Simpsons , who also deserved to take home a Best Supporting Actor Oscar ) The 145 minute running time passes in a breeze and there's loads of interesting story developments to keep you hooked . But DePalma's sterile widescreen photography and sets reek of the crassness of Scarface . This film is miles ahead of that junk ( but let's not get into a debate about that ) though I do think that a more vivid production design and cinematography and slicker editing would have stopped the film from looking so bland . I don't think DePalma is a great director but I do enjoy Carlito's Way , The Untouchables and Snake Eyes . The fact that he has also directed such godawful sludge like Carrie , Scarface and Mission to Mars only proves how unpredictable he is .
Could have used more magic and less politics	There have been zillions of incarnations of this particular story and who knows which one tells it in the truest form . In this version the legend is told from Merlin's point of view , from his creation to his old age . There's no way of verifying how much of this is true but I imagine that Queen Mab and Frick are just made up characters . Originally a 2-parter TV movie , hence the abrupt fade-out halfway through , the three hour running-time is a bit too heavy to take in one sitting so I recommend watching one half , then the other , over 2 days . Sam Neill is rather good as Merlin but he's acted off the screen by Martin Short and Miranda Richardson ( who looks seriously sexy as Queen Mab ) . Merlin's magic never rises above hand tricks , while Mab and Frick are doing wild , imaginative thingies all over the place . A bit of a bad move in the writing there . Mab is also the main villain ( even though I'd be on her side ) and she still out-ranks the campy , grown-up Draco Malfoy dude who plays Mordred ( who we're supposed to hate the most ) . Rutger Hauer , James Earl Jones , Helena Bonham Carter and John Gielgud pop up in smaller roles and they do what they can with the weak script but there is no excuse for Isabella Rossellini being in this . She is absolutely awful ! The script does suffer heavily from poor dialogue but good actors can cover this up with good acting , every single word that comes out of her mouth is worse than noise of beating a penguin to death with an old violin . Eesh ! While the first half has a fair amount of magic and atmosphere the second half is bogged down in endless ' Arthur ' scenes . He's not developed as an interesting character and is it any wonder his wife goes and cheats on him ? The secondary female characters seem to be played by the same woman as they all look the same and don't do much than sit around . Even Nimue seems content to sit on Avalon Island forever while her boyfriend Merlin visits her every 30 years or so . And they don't age . Thanks to these implausibilities it's easy to lose the time line . Steve Barron ( who did Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles ) does give us some lovely shots and the occasional moment of atmosphere . The sets range from enchanting to plastic and fake ( Camelot , whatever it may have looked like , always looks like crap on film-ALWAYS ! ) and SFX range from convincing to cheap . The one consistent part of the film is Trevor Jones ' absolutely great score with makes up for all the magic missing in the talking scenes . The new special edition DVD has a brand new full frame ( as it was shot ) transfer that looks bright and colorful . The new Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack adds a serious amount of bass to the voices and sound effects but can pronounce the sporadic ADR a bit too much . A new commentary by Steve Barron , a featurette and some SFX breakdowns are also included .
Who needs a life ?	In this TV special Jon is the one who needs a life . The highlight of his day is counting the tiles on the ceiling and rearranging his sock drawer . Not content with this forever , Jon takes Garfield to a self help group in order to meet people . How many people will be interested in a loner 20-something who's best friend is a cat ? After several failed attempts at getting a girl , including one cringeworthy dance scene that rivals David Brents ' fusion of Flashdance and MC Hammer in The Office ( Disco's dead ? , says Jon ) , he is more than shocked to find a cute girl who is as much as a jerk as himself . Naturally , they get on but Garfield is worried that John will forget about him and prefer having kids to a cat . Fortunately Jon's new girlfriend is allergic to cats . With slicker animation than past TV specials , this feels like a longer episode of Garfield and Friends .
Surprisingly good	I missed out on this film during its cinema release as I figured it to be yet another sex-comedy with gross-out gags . While the film does contain a little of this it is way more character based and the humor comes from more absurd situations than disgusting . Never judge book by its cover eh . Andy Stitzer ( Steve Carrell ) is a 40-year-old virgin . His life is made up of working in the returns department of an electronics store , collecting toys of movie characters and watching reality TV with his OAP neighbors . The touch of a woman is foreign to him and he is yet to educated in their mysterious ways . Though he does have the bonus of not having to put up with their moaning , tantrums and bitching ' because they can ' ! When his secret is wrenched out of him his work buddies make it their mission to help him pop his cherry and think of a zillion , wacky , hair-brained schemes . But Andy is interested in Trish ( Catherine Keener ) the woman from the store across the road . Only he's really intimidated and arranges a weird no-sex policy with her that originally makes her relax at not having to live up to expectations but eventually makes her want to explode . Can he keep his secret from her too and perform the dirty deed with apparent expertise of your average porn stud ? I'm so cynical of all these ' extended cuts ' that are appearing on DVD at the moment . Most are completely unnecessary and give us only a couple more minutes of pointlessness , but The 40 Year Old Virgin gives us a staggering 17 extra minutes and bulks up the films running time to an incredible 133 minutes . For such a thin premise , the film gets an impressive amount of mileage and you never really feels like it's dragging along . With decent characters and story that just breezes along , without being superficial , the best long movies seem like very short ones . 40YOV is definitely one of those . And I promise you this is not a ' rom-com ' or a ' sex-com ' . Despite some crude humor here and there this is more of a light-hearted ' drama-com ' . Carrell also proves he a far more talented actor and comedian than Will Ferrel or Adam ' Pissbag ' Sandler . Three stars are for the movie but it gets an extra bonus half-star for including a wonderfully , wonderfully top-heavy actress as Trish's daughter . Man , with women this big-boobed you just know there is a God .
Safe House	Probably still looking for a place to get some sleep , the Pink Panther has strangely chose a safe in a random building to catch some Zs . But some burglar dude turns up with the intention of breaking in . Old Pinky has fun changing locks and tormenting him , as usual . The little burglar dude can hardly believe his eyes when he finally sees whats inside , but the hijinks don't end there . Cleverly , Pinky convinces the burglar to take away the safe even though he suspects a bomb is inside . There are plenty laughs to be had in this cartoon and by this point Pinky's cleverness was beginning to match even that of Bugs Bunny . The Pink Panther is a great character and I love him .
Poor guy	Poor Anthony Perkins . He played one psycho and then another within a few years of each other and the guy got typecast for the rest of his career . I must say that Pretty Poison's Dennis Pitt is to Psycho's Norman Bates what a firecracker is to the big bang . Orphan Pitt is fresh out of jail after spending some time inside for burning down his aunt's house when he was a kid . Unfortunately for him ( and her ) she was inside the house when it went up . It was only an accident but his weird personality is what really damns him . He fancies himself as a bit of a Billy Liar . His life is boring and uneventful out of jail so he concocts elaborate fantasies to keep himself going and to make people interested in him . With the exception of his concerned parole officer , it works mostly for people who come and go . That is until he meets pretty high school senior Sue Ann Stepanek and goes a bit too far with his fibbing . This time he says he's in the CIA and his mission is to stop a local factory from polluting a river . It's a noble plan but once he involves Sue Ann she becomes homicidal and takes too much pleasure in offing a security guard . Obviously freaked out by the turn of events Pitt is unsure what to do , especially since Sue Ann has just declared her undying love for him . Any sensible guy would head for the hills but Dennis is just a bit too naive . You'll definitely feel sorry for the guy . He even gets roped into helping the increasingly mad Sue Ann carry out even more dirty deeds . It's obvious that the film isn't headed for a happy ending and it's not even an easy watch getting there . Perkins is brilliant as Dennis Pitt and you'll be on his side the whole time and really feeling for him and his huge innocent eyes and nervous twitches and ticks that become more and more obvious . His only real crime is falling for the wrong girl . Once again , it's his weird personality that ends up damning him . If you're a guy the lesson is don't fall in love with wrong girl no matter how pretty she is . It's the pretty ones that end up being the most poisonous . Trust me , The Gator knows . If you're a girl the lesson is don't be a bitch . Pretty much all guys are innocent until a woman comes along and screws them up . Prove me wrong kiddies . Prove me wrong .
Getting away from it all	Donald is on vacation in what appears to the a forest in the Pacific Northwest . His boat doubles as a tent ( why does Donald need a boat ? He's a duck ! ) and is stuffed with supplies of every kind . One of which is a cryptic folding deck chair . As Donald naps on this difficult contraption a bunch of very cute chipmunk come along and steal his picnic ( a really clichéd cartoon gag , but at least it's not thieving ants this time ) . Donald , obvious infuriated by such theft chases them but only ends up enraging a local bear and fleeing his camp for good . It's funny but I have no idea why Donald complains that the chipmunks have no respect for humans when Donald isn't one . And besides , he's invading THEIR space .
No relation to Peter Parker	The police are baffled after a series of suicides in which a bunch of men , wearing their pyjamas , throw themselves out of high windows or blow their brains out . The city needs Sherlock Holmes on the case but he's too busy being on holiday in Scotland with Watson ( cue the tune to Take the High Road as the film fades from London to the wilderness ) . But Holmes suffers a dizzy spell and plummets to his ' death ' off the top of a waterfall . Watson returns to London and grudgingly begins to pack up all of Holmes's stuff . But it was all just a decoy and Holmes promptly returns and begins to unravel the mystery of the Pyjama Suicides undisturbed . He works out a single common denominator ; a psychotic seductress has been involved with each of the victims . There's an old saying that a hero is only as good as the villain . Well , I happen to agree with that most of the time and it certainly proves to be true in this film . We've seen Holmes match wits with various enemies over time but this is the first one where he really seems to have met his equal . Adrea Spedding ( played by Academy Award-winning Gale Sondergaard ) comes across as more calculating and efficient than Moriarty or any of the Nazi villains . The story also takes elements from a few of Conan Doyle's works , including The Speckled Band and The Sign of Four . It packs a hell of a lot into it's running time and is surely one of the most entertaining of the Rathbone / Bruce series . Still not too keen on the ' modern ' setting though .
Well duh !	Morgan Spurlock's kamikaze documentary seems to be under the impression that the whole world hadn't a clue McDonald's was bad for you . We all knew that , man . But the criticisms his methods have met with are unfair . Many people have complained that over-eating is bad for you no matter where you eat from . But Spurlock does not over-eat . He only has 3 square meals a day . Breakfast , Lunch and Dinner . And still he became very unhealthy , rather alarmingly so . The point seems to be lost on most of us though . I don't eat from McDonalds and I won't . But those who do won't stop because they've seen this movie . I'm going to assume this will be the attitude the world over . McDonald's did abolish their Supersize option shortly after the film came out but claimed it was nothing to do with Morgan Spurlock in an attempt to distance itself from this documentary . Spurlock even tries his absolute hardest to get an interview with a high-ranking McDonald's executive but fails miserably . Which only serves to prove , even further , how faceless and careless McDonald's is when it comes to public relations . Though Mickey D's is not the only monster to be skewered here . America's health issues and obesity problems in general are tackled by Spurlock . All in a rather cartoony , easy to follow fashion . If overbearing documentaries like F put you off the genre then don't worry . Supersize Me is lighter but still as sophisticated and darkly comical . The extras on the DVD are actually quite good . The deleted scenes in particular . One of them focuses on decomposing food , trust me . . . you'll NEVER look at McDonald's Fries the same way again . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 non-anamorphic widescreen and Dolby 2 . 0 sound .
Actually quite good , but could have been nastier !	Poseidon runs a surprisingly brisk 99 minutes , which I think is the film's only failing as it's a full 20 minutes shorter than the original . The set pieces the film has to offer are all nail-biting and intense , but I just felt that there wasn't enough of them . I'm not such a big fan of the original . I liked it as a kid but viewing it as an adult I'm turned-off by the soap opera drama and dated effects . Back in the early 70s this may well have been fine but perhaps such advances in movie effects is why remakes of these kind of movies are not so unnecessary . The characters are all likable and even though the set-up and introduction is pretty quick , we get to know enough and grow attached to them before the big wave hits ( no longer a tidal wave caused by an underwater volcano for obvious reasons ) and what a set-piece that turns out to be ! The initial capsizing of the ship is a brilliantly edited destruction derby in which many , many human lives meet violent deaths . If there would be just one thing the film has to offer it is plenty of dead bodies . But why not go one step further and show some really heavy gruesomeness ? I would have liked that ! The idiots ( there are usually loads in disaster films ) stay behind in the ballroom while a bunch of more sensible survivors decide to escape by going up ( down ) to the engine room and out through the propeller tubes . Only because everything is inverted , there are loads of obstacles , including a race-against-time in a very small and very cramped air vent . Not all of them make it ! It's a shame that Poseidon didn't do better at the box office but it has faced stiff competition . It is however better than crap like The Break Up and The Da Vinci Code and The Omen 666 . Give it a chance , I did and I was pleasantly surprised . It will definitely be a film I pick up on DVD when it comes out !
Fairly decent character drama	Although it's nothing but dialogue and character study this film passes by in what seems like a few minutes . It is very well acted and directed with some great cinematography . But I would have liked to see more on Whales ' troubled childhood , that part would appeal to me . The bit where he's talking about ' pan-dripping ' made my stomach turn . Brendan Fraser shows he can do serious roles as well as the usual hunk dufus and Ian McKellen was so good as James Whale that I almost saw completely past the actor . It really shows up on these OTT trashy Hollywood movies and deserved more Academy Awards than just the mere one it received .
As far from the restrictions of TV as it could possibly be .	Oooh , a difficult one this . Very difficult indeed . Unless you are particularly patient , or are a hardcore Star Trek fan this is going to take some effort to stick with . It doesn't seem like a Trekkie movie . Nowhere near as much fun as Wrath Of Khan , or First Contact . Not as much humour as The Voyage Home . In fact , there is no humour at all . Something that cripples the film badly . Everything is very straight-faced and sincere . To introduce someone to Star Trek with this film would be a bad idea . Being the first Trek product since the original series one might expect the familiar campy story lines and beaming down to " M-class " planets - a bit of desert 10-minutes drive from LA - but there's none to be had . Veteran director Robert Wise has crafted a film very much in the style of his original version of The Haunting . His w-i-d-e-s-c-r-e-e-n compositions are beautiful and he really manages to lift Trek from the small screen to the cinema screen . It was a hard undertaking , but he set the standard for nine sequels to date . The plot has a giant alien force destroying three Klingon ships on its direct course with earth . If the Federation doesn't stop this thing , it will blow up the planet . Admiral Kirk leaves his sunny San Francisco home to assume command of the Enterprise from Captain Decker and stop the alien menace . But Decker has a chip on his shoulder . The new Enterprise is not finished yet and he doesn't appreciate Kirk moving in on his territory . Very slowly the original crew return and are in command of their posts again and there is a weird new navigator , a bald-headed , celibate alien woman named Ilia . Decker seems to have a thing for her . For some reason . Once they reach the mysterious alien mass , the crew learns its name is Vger . Ilia is kidnapped and replaced with an android . Spock is driven to tears as he finds TOTAL logic in Vger actions and motivations . This is all sub-subtext and the actual explanation behind Vger might not come as a surprise to most . Once they fly inside Vger's mass of clouds and orifices it takes a healthy hour for the damn thing to be fully revealed . To criticise a film for its length may be an ignorant thing to do . Audiences today are too satisfied with any plot lasting less than 100 minutes . This is not a good sign . Films with the scope and , dare I say it , class of Star Trek : The Motion Picture need their full and proper running time . Coherent story lines can be sacrificed for fast paced , exhilarating storytelling , or a dull , seemingly endless narrative can be the result of a big story being fully fleshed out . It's difficult to achieve both length and pace . Sadly , this film doesn't . But it looks very good , is well directed and has the balls to bite off more than it can chew .
Mostly fun , but loses its way a bit	DMDWP is a black and white film noir comedy that uses footage from real film noirs from the 40s and 50s and inter cuts them with the plot to make it appears that Steve Martin is really talking to / acting with the likes of Humphrey Bogart , Bette Davis , James Cagney etc . The effect is almost seamless but for a movie made in 1982 it's quite impressive . Martin plays the wonderfully named Rigby Reardon , a typical , gritty private eye who narrates the story with sarcastic observation and gets involved in the usual femme fatal plot and a conspiracy surround the death of a cheese maker . Yes , it's nonsense , and towards the end it becomes a bit hard to follow and the silliness gets out of control . But it's all played straight and for most of the film you could believe you were actually watching a classic film noir . Steve Martin should have done more of these movies . Rigby Reardon was a great character and could have lasted for a few more movies . The humor is frequently hilarious and he certainly retains a lot of the integrity he has lost in recent years since he went the way of Eddie Murphy and sold himself out to family audiences . Either way , I say you should give this movie a go if you're a fan of his older work . The DVD is sadly in non-anamorphic 1 . 85 : 1 widescreen with Dolby 2 . 0 surround . It still looks quite good for a black and white film and the sound has that limited sound space effect to it to make it fit in with the older footage . A Dolby 5 . 1 remix would have been totally unnecessary . Some boring extras ( trailer , cast bios ) are included .
No acid rain , drug addiction , international terrorism or freeway killers in this one	Scrooge McDuck rather fittingly plays Ebeneezer Scrooge in this Disney version of a story that TV writers have been milking for years . To me , the only good movies based on Charles Dickens ' classic novel are this one , Scrooged and Muppet's Christmas Carol . Though I do remember seeing something as a kid called The Stingiest Man in Town that was very similar . Or did I dream that ? As usual with Disney animation , this 25-minute short is wonderfully detailed and cosy . But I feel that it may not have as much lasting power other feature length movies . It's just not long enough . The story feels very rushed but it's no less effective . Originally produced to precede the re-release of The Rescuers in 1983 I reckon that Mickey's Christmas Carol is a classic in it's own way , even if it only familiar to Disney fans instead of the average kid who has been raised on Toy Story and Dinosaur . I do believe that it could have been a feature length film but as a big fan of Scrooge McDuck I can just turn to Duck Tales if I want more of him . This was also his second screen appearance after appearing in a Donald Duck short years before . He's an underrated Disney character and deserves a comeback .
It just never works out	Donald is another name for disaster . Why do you think Cockney rhyming slang uses Donald Duck for bad luck ? In this cartoon Donald is a Fire Chief and his nephews his staff . Being such an incompetent leader he soon sets fire to the station-house itself and cannot save it for the life of him . Whether tackling raging hoses , falling through the sky or pumping gasoline into fire Donald suffers the worst of everything as Huey , Duey and Louie duck ( pun intended ) for cover . The cartoon features some cuteness not often found in Disney shorts . I never really believed that was something he ever intended . The vivid animation always seems to be first and imaginative mayhem second . This short has all three .
Deliver us from evil	This film is probably notorious , or infamous rather , for one scene only . It's one of those movies that is always followed by a bad impersonation upon the mentioning of the title . Perhaps like Dirty Harry and ' Are you feeling lucky punk ? ' . I will try to avoid using the line ' Squeal like a pig ' in this review , even though I just did . I should also mention that the film is also forever associated with the Duelling Banjos scene with just about every generation . But I must stress that those who often try to be clever by mimicking both these unique , little features have probably never even scene the film . Four naive city boys take a break from playing golf and decide to canoe down the Cahulawassee River before the valley is flooded into a huge reservoir . It's not their territory , but their leader Lewis Medlock ( Burt Reynolds , looking like Steven Seagal's long-lost twin brother ) arrogantly assumes that he can deal with any challenge that comes his way . His friends Ed , Bobby and Drew ( Jon Voight , Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox ) reluctantly follow him , despite having their own doubts . The first day of the trip goes fine , but on the second morning Ed and Bobby stop to rest by a small stream . There they are approached by a couple of disgusting mountain men , that are not quite as close to the mutants seen in Wrong Turn but are grotesque nonetheless . Despite their attempts at keeping the peace , the yokels strap Ed to a tree and force him to watch Bobby being raped . Even though I have never witnessed something like this , it's a horribly realistic scene and Ned Beatty does it very well , he must have some guts to do a such a scene in this ; his first movie . Lewis shows up in the nick of time and kills one of the yokels but the other escapes . Drew is the only one who thinks that they should take the matters to the police and ends up having a sort of breakdown . In their attempts to escape the scene they crash the canoes and Lewis ends up with a nasty compound fracture . This leaves Ed as the only one capable of hunting down the remaining hillbilly who is preying upon them from the cliff-tops . It's a slow moving film that doesn't focus on the action so much as the horrors taking place in such a tranquil location . John Boorman's widescreen photography beautifully captures the Southern wilderness and comes across as rather haunting without resorting to cheap , slasher movie techniques . Boorman has spent half of his career on a high and the other half languishing in crappiness of Zardoz , Exorcist 2 and the horribly misjudged Excalibur . He has left a lasting impression filmmakers despite his failings . Deliverance is not for everyone and I certainly cannot recommend it to those who are only used to quick-fix MTV movies . But it is still a carefully measured , thought-provoking film .
If Looney Tunes did Batman . . .	Although it is rather serious in tone and deals with vampires and the undead , The Batman vs Dracula just seems to childish and too cartoony to be really effective . The color pallet is suitably drab and washed out and it does have a decent amount of atmosphere but I can't help but think that it could have been better if it just didn't seem toned down . I prefer the 90s series of Batman , which had an overwhelming amount of darkness and Gothic pathos . This new THE Batman series appears to be reconfigured to appeal to kids who weren't even born in that decade . I know it's a cliché to moan that animated shows were always better when my age-group were kids , but it's so true . The Penguin and The Joker ( now looking like a cross between Krusty the Clown and The Predator ) escape from Arkham ( there's something new ) and make their way to a hidden treasure trove in the cemetery . But the bird stumbles upon Dracula's tomb ( why he is in Gotham is not explained ) and resurrects him by accident . But The Batman doesn't approve of a Vampireman stalking his streets and a drawn-out conflict with a predictable and hokey ending fills up the rest of the movie . It's fun , it's entertaining , but it's just not the Batman I'm used to .
A furious button basher	I'm not really that familiar with the Metroid series . The only other one I have ever played so far is Metroid Pinball , so I'm totally not clued-up on the original that appeared on the NES back in 1986 . But I did go for this one because I heard that the original Turrican game was based partly on Metroid . And while the similarities are plentiful this is still a great game in it's own right . Old-fashioned 2D platformers are always brilliant and it's one of my fave genres . Fusion involves lots of running around in a huge , abandoned space-station , visiting my departments and sub-departments , blasting away at alien scum and trying to figure out what happened to everyone . The level designs are awesome , with loads of hidden extras and secret passageways . You'll still be able to memorise your way around though . The graphics and sound effects are dead cool but the generic music is a bit of a let-down . Some of the bosses are unbelievably hard and you'll end up having to stop yourself from smashing your Nintendo against the wall . Fight the urge , there is always a way , always a pattern to follow to kill them . But it's finding the courage to face it for the 86th time that really matters . Definitely one of the best games on the GBA , but perhaps a bit too short . I would have liked to have kept going and gaining more and more and MORE power-ups . But hey , it's still worth the money . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Bimbo	Fun , but dumb . That's how I'd pretty much describe The Mummy . Stephen Sommers has done some wild b-movies in his time ( Deep Rising ) and was a great choice to write and direct this remake of the old 1930s Universal horror show . Though I must stress that very little of this film is original . Basically it's an Indiana Jones rip-off with bits of Evil Dead and Hellraiser thrown in . Clichés are abundant and stereotyped , stock characters make up much of the supporting cast . Not only do we get a fair English maiden and a bumbling Brit designed to make the yank look cool but there are also gung-ho cowboys , stuffy professors , a cowardly weasel traitor ( who really gets what he deserves ) and a slimy slob prison warden . Argh ! There's no real point in complaining about this as they're just supposed to be easy identifiable characters for younger audiences to appreciate . There isn't really much scary about The Mummy , which is what the original was all about . Which brings me to the main problem of the film . I'm-ho-tep ( played by the wicked-cool Nicolas Cage doppelganger Arnold Vosloo ) is not really a bad guy . Everything he does is for love . Hardly the worst villain in history . In fact the greedy folks excavating his tomb , jeopardising the lives of everyone else for the sake of money are far worse , morally . The action is exciting and some of the plot elements , however copycatted , are imaginative and clever . The 2 hour + running time seems to fly by . It may be unoriginal but there's still more heart in The Mummy than in rubbish like Underworld . The DVD has a great looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture with even better Dolby 5 . 1 / DTS sound . Loads of extras too , if you care .
What the Hellboy ?	Live action translates perfectly into animation in this feature-length Hellboy adventure . What makes it even better is that the main cast return to do the voices and Marco Beltrami's main theme is used . A lot of animated spin-offs in the past have proved to be just as good when taken seriously by the makers ( Animatrix , Spider-Man ) but , in my opinion , Hellboy : Sword of Storms was good enough for a theatrical release . A small one , like Batman : Mask of the Phantasm . The story has HB , Liz and Abe go to Japan where a local historian has gone missing and a priceless exhibit damaged . While at the scene , HB wanders off , following a strange Fox and ends up trapped somewhere in time . Liz and Abe have no idea where he is but have their own problems to deal with as the weather takes a turn for the worse . Stuck in ancient Japan , HB must deal with a bunch of vampires , demons and monsters in an effort to get home . Easier said than done . I liked the movie , but felt it lacked something . Still , it made me interested in the character , even though I have yet to buy a single Hellboy comic book . After watching this however , I can't wait to get some more of HB . The animation style follows that of the comic pretty closely and the color pallet ranges from very bright and very colorful to moody and atmospheric . It's very impressive and highly detailed . Don't expect ' saturday morning ' style animation here . If you are seriously into Hellboy or even if you are just a casual fan of the movie then you totally have to get this . I eagerly await Hellboy : Blood and Iron , due out this summer . In the meantime , I reckon I ought to get me some Hellboy comic-books .
Superior Sequel	I was perhaps a little too hard on the first when I reviewed it . When compared to the ' I know ' movies it seems much better but this sequel rocks . Although not completely different from all the other teen ( ? ) slasher flicks out there Urban Legend 2 seems to be fresher than I had expected . I was pleasantly surprised . The whole execution of the plot and the action seems to be a great deal more light-hearted and realistic . The photography and the setting looks very good on the big screen and the lead heroine is easy on the eye . She's way more talented and attractive than other scream queens . Not that I want to typecast her . The identity of the bad guy was a mystery all the way thru for me and the way John Ottman makes us point the finger at a number of different characters was done whole lot better and way more subtler than Wes Craven . And none of the characters were annoying or irritating as they normally are in this sub-genre . The humor was also spot-on . There wasn't much I didn't laugh at that I was supposed to and it didn't spoil the intense atmosphere . A certain joke in the mine was good enough for me annoy people with my loud laughing . They way the film was self-aware and in-jokey without becoming a parody was WAY more convincing and pleasing than any of the Scream movies . And the film students who refer to other movies and movie making was the kind of gimmick Scream 2 and Scream 3 could have benefited from if it were done properly . The presence of Joey Laurence just made a good movie even better . If you liked or hated the first I seriously do recommend this sequel to you as it way superior . The only gripe would be the lack of Chris Young's original score .
Less dynamic but still a worthy sequel	Despite the success of Azumi the makers appear to have cut back on the budget for this sequel and as a result we get much less in the way of innovative action and a LOT more of wandering around in the forest . The story picks up not long after the first with Azumi and Nagara still going after the warlords intent on seizing Japan . She soon meets a rowdy young rebel called Ginkaku who looks a lot like her dead boyfriend Nachi ( a weird plot that goes absolutely nowhere ) and joins forces with them to fight evil . Some nice fight scenes follow but they use waaaay too much CGI blood effects ( a horrible trend that is becoming more and more popular ) and none of them have the eccentric flair of the original movie . The ending doesn't amount to much either but I'd still watch a third if they were to make it .
Blow the man down , matey	The cartoon begins with Tom preparing himself with loads of ointments and lotions for a day of sunbathing at the beach . It's immediately ruined by Jerry coming along and bothering him . For a minute they do their usual chasing before Tom runs of the end of a pier and ' drowns ' . But at the bottom of the ocean ( all three feet of it beneath the pier ) he comes across a mermouse who also annoys him . Cue more chases , only with an underwater twist this time involving sunken ships ( three feet under a pier , a swordfish and an octopus . It's a welcome break from the generic house T & J shorts are usually set in . Some nice underwater animation earns this one a .
The first ever movie !	No plot . No sound . No credits . But it was the first ever moving picture and it was directed by Louis Aimé Augustin Le Prince , a man who's dad was pals with the earliest of photographers . The film simply involves Le Prince's family standing in the garden of a large Victorian house , moving around each other in circles . They had to do something I guess . Mad isn't it , the first ever film and it's just people doing the first crazy thing that comes to their head . It's weird watching this 120-year-old film and seeing a more vivid look at life in those days . Le Prince disappeared of the face of the earth in 1890 and his vanishing was never solved . He never knew how much of a pioneer he was .
Nothing new , but does it with style	Youths being killed one by one , a killer in the woods , stalk and slash , mutated cannibals . . . it's all been done a hundred times before . But not always as effectively and brutally as Wrong Turn . It's all in the execution folks , quite literally . Chris Flynn ( the always intense looking Desmond Harrington ) is a Doctor on his way to an appointment across the other side of the country . A chemical spill and crash on the freeway means 2 hours of waiting in traffic and being late . Keen to avoid this , Chris takes a dirt road along Bear Mountain hoping to cut back onto the freeway some miles ahead of the jam . I bet he wishes he didn't . This wrong turn causes him to smash into an already wasted people carrier . The owners are a bunch of mountain bikers who have had their tires shredded by barb-wire lain by apparent hillbillies . Chris and three others ( Eliza Dushku , Jeremy Sisto and the very annoying Emmanuelle Chriqui ) decide to walk to the nearest phone while a moronic and deserving-to-die boyfriend and girlfriend ( Kevin Zegers and Lindy Booth , who also met a similar fate in Dawn of the Dead ) stay behind to guard the cars . That couple don't last very long and the only dwelling the quartet stumble upon is the disgusting house of a bunch of ferocious , inbred , cannibalistic mountain men . It's filled with the stolen belongings of people they've already massacred , but no one picks up on this until the men suddenly return . It's clear from the outset who's going to live and who's going to die . Chris is strong-willed and level-headed and responds to intense situations with logic and cunning , while most of the others do stupid things and do all but paint a bullseye on their forehead . Shot and directed with an atmospheric color pallet , a fair amount of tension , some grisly kills and lots of quick , nervous cuts ( without turning into confusion ) , Wrong Turn succeeds where most other wannabe horrors that fall into the same sub-genre fail . In the post-Scream world horror movies were all about irony and smart-ass . Wrong Turn wisely includes neither . Currently horror movies are all about remakes , with one remake coming out every other week . Wrong Turn isn't exactly a remake either , but , like I said it IS a story that's been done almost to death . In the end , it cannot be a great movie . But just a very-well done potboiler that does exactly what it set out to do . So many horror films fail because someone behind the scenes fails to take it seriously , I'm pleased to say that ain't the case with this movie .
Chuck's first crush	Charlie is in love with ' the little red-headed girl ' , the very one he fancied in ' Be My Valentine , Charlie Brown ' . But he's not got the courage to talk to her and frequently makes a laughing stock of himself with every attempt . Plus , everybody is making fun of him and Snoopy is not lending a sympathetic ear , as usual . The emotional turmoil Charlie suffers is alarmingly true . Everybody remembers their first crush and how awkward it made them feel . It's little touches of reality like this in the far-fetched but wonderful world of Peanuts that make it so timeless . Though it was made in 1967 there is nothing in this TV special that dates it in any way .
A cute , cosy cartoon , but not a classic	The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh are actually three separate theatrical shorts stitched together with some new footage ( in much the same way as Daffy Duck's Quackbusters ) . Because of this , there is no consistent story from beginning to end other than the usual hapless , hijinks of the animals from Hundred Acre Wood . Disney certainly don't make cartoons like this anymore , they're too busy with soulless rubbish like Meet the Robinsons . TMAOWTP was certainly one of their last greats of old-school animation . The seasonal colors of Hundred Acre Wood and the backgrounds are rather enchanting and atmospheric . I actually had a huge poster from Winnie Pooh and the Blustery Day on my bedroom wall when I was a kid and I could literally look at it for hours as there was so much detail to it . I'm not too keen on Christopher Robin though , he's just a bit too effeminate for me . I hear that Disney are planning on replacing him with a tomboyish girl for future Winnie the Pooh projects . Well , I'm fine with that . The Disney-fied Pooh deviates so far from AA Milne's creation that one more alteration is hardly significant . And why don't they ever call him Winnie ?
No catfood !	The Pink Panther is staying a mountain cabin for the holiday season but gets barricaded inside when a massive snowfall blocks his every exit . Since the snow doesn't melt until March , he's left with no option but to scour the cabin for anything edible . But he has to put up with a pesky mouse who is also out for a bite to eat . The mouse quite fancies a bite out of Pinky , who himself is frying pictures of fish cut out of magazines . And Pinky don't quite like having his tail devoured . The usual cat and mouse ( literally this time ) game follows and is topped off by a pretty amusing twist . An above average cartoon .
Just for the Hell of it	Tom chases Jerry for no particular reason , and the cartoon seems to be giving us the usual fare until Jerry flattens Tom with a piano , killing him . A quick ride to heaven on an escalator brings him to the pearly gates , where some kind of train conduction is a cat version of Saint Peter . The Heavenly Express leaves in an hour and if Tom can get a signed document of forgiveness from Jerry he's free to enter . If not-HELL ! Now it's Tom's chance to be as nice to Jerry as possible , but he's having none of it and refuses to sign , sealing the cat's fate forever . It's a funny cartoon , with some nice moments . Though I was a little surprised to see the three dead kittens drowned in a bag at the gates of heaven .
Poor Sly	I can't believe Sylvester's owners are cruel enough to go on holiday without him , never mind leaving him locked in the house for 2 weeks without any milk . Luckily our fave cat finds a massive stash of tinned tuna . But wait . . . no can opener . The mouse has stolen it . But instead of being nice to Sly the mouse taunts him endlessly with an ever-just-out-of-reach can opener . Why ? Why not be nice ? The more he starves Sly the more likely he is to just eat the mouse . Sylvester's plans and attempts at getting the can opener echo many Tom and Jerry cartoons . But when he finally gets his hands on the prized object the mother of all twists is revealed . Poor kitty .
How old is Donald ?	Coz in this he's still a kid going to school . Or at least he should be going to school . He doesn't feel like getting out of bed and his devil side wants to lie in but his angel side convinces him to get up . Then there's the dilemma of either going to school or having fun . Should he go fishing or go to class ? Should he smoke a big cigar or do the intelligent thing and refuse it ? Obviously the devil and angel start fighting it out with each other instead of bothering with Donald himself . And in the end he does end up going to class . But really , how old is Donald and is he really still in School ? Whatever the answer is , it's a funny cartoon .
How far we've come	I got the demo of this game in Dec 1997 and for months me and my best friend did nothing but play it ( yes , nothing but the demo ) . Some months later I actually saved up enough to buy the full game and at the time it seemed so cool and interesting . I'd never played anything like AoE ( I had just gotten my first Windows PC round about then ) and we were both totally addicted . Today , it seems dated and dull . Weird isn't it ? I have AoE2 and it is much better but that too already seems old hat compared with the screenshots of the forthcoming AoE3 ( can't wait ) . Even with all the expansion packs available for this game it will never come close to the complexity of the second sequel or even Age of Mythology . Buy it if you can find it dead cheap tho .
I liked this a lot !	Since Warners revamped the Scooby-Doo franchise in 1998 , feature length mysteries have been inconsistent . The first few had real monsters , with no rubber masks , but far too many disgustingly PC mommies in America complained and the Brothers Warner folded and went back to the " guy in a suit to scare away the locals " stories . A shame . What a surprise then that Scooby's latest adventure is actually quite good , despite its PC shortcomings . This time around the Mystery Inc . gang are in Hawaii , catching some rays and relaxation . Typically , this is the exact moment the local volcano starts brewing over and a big monster called the Wiki-Tiki rears its ugly head , scaring away all of the surfers from the Hunahana resort and kidnapping a local babe . If you are incredibly sad , like me , you will realise this is too much like the 1970 episode , A Tiki Scare Is No Fair . The usual long list of suspects includes a sleazy real estate agent , an ambitious mayor and an eccentric holiday rep ( Adam West ) . And just as soon as their mystery-solving begins , the real culprit is immediately noticeable . It's a poorly written whodunit , but what saves it are crazy set pieces and a varied atmosphere , which keep the mystery interesting , if obvious . Or , at least , obvious to a 24-year-old . It may well come as a surprise to an eight-year-old . Locations , such as the beach , the deep jungle , the catacombs and Auntie Mahina's cabin , are beautifully animated . The best thing about the modern Scooby is that production values are a zillion times what the original 1969 series was . Aloha , Scooby-Doo looks incredibly slick and the eye-popping colour schemes would keep you interested no matter how poor the mystery was . One could accuse the film of being slightly xenophobic and somewhat stereotypical in regards to its Hawaiian setting . But it's no worse than the unrealistic Scotland seen in last year's Scooby-Doo And The Loch Ness Monster . I was also surprised at how little of it actually relies on Scooby ( voiced by Frank Welker , who also does Fred ) . He barely gets a chance to do his thang . Most of the laughs come from the rest of the gang . But , as it is , Aloha , Scooby-Doo is still loads of fun and proves that while the story quality of modern Scoobys remains inconsistent , the animation just gets better and better .
The future IS the 80's	Of all Arnold's mid-'80s movies who would have thought that most relevant today would be The Running Man . A chilling and surprisingly realistic tale of reality TV gone mad . It may have been far-fetched back then but not so now . Not when you think about it . Currently , Reality TV shows are either scraping the bottom of the barrel or desperate to raise the bar . If the next one isn't more controversial as the last , it's a dud . How long will it be before we really do see shows like The Running Man ? How long before we have ' court-appointed theatrical attorneys ' or the entertainment division of the Justice Department ? There is so much satire and intelligence in this movie that may have been missed back in 1987 that is desperate to be seen again considering the current state of TV shows . The biggest message of all is ' You are being lied to ' . It's no secret that the Government and the media work in cahoots . And the masses believe what the media tells them to believe . It's a very scary state of affairs and unless more accurate representations of the truth emerge we may easily accept a brutal show like the Running Man in the near future . It's no secret that Reality TV is not very realistic . It's edited and reshaped before being aired and it's only what the networks want you to see . Usually it's far from the real truth . Although rather different than Stephen King's book ( the ending is completely changed ) the script does conform to the typical Arnie formula . Yes , he does have numerous and very corny one-liners and he does say ' I'll be back ' ( which he never REALLY said that often anyway , when you think about it ) in the most ironic situation yet but he's still a zillion times better in the role then Christopher Reeve or Dolph Lundgren would have been ( these two were considered BEFORE Arnie believe it or not ) . The director is none other than Dave Starsky himself ( Paul Michael Glaser ) . It may not be artistic but it is still strong enough to generate excitement and his use of neon and flourescent colors gives each individual set a pretty cool look . Andrew Davis ( not a director I particularly like ) was attached before Glaser , though no matter who directs , the film is still marred by a very heavy 80's feel . First of all , Harold Faltermeyer's score ( remember him ? ) is incredibly dated and robs the action scenes of any timeless integrity . And the fashion sense of the movie is far too excessive to be convincingly set in the future . Apart from the dated feel , the only other thing that bugs me is the poorly staged shoot-out that passes as the climax . This new DVD is a zillion times better than the original release . Gone is the horrid letterbox picture . In its place is a brand new hi-definition 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic transfer . The colors sparkle and literally pop from the screen . The new Dolby 5 . 1 EX and DTS ES soundtrack are also amazing . There constant use of the surround channels to great effect and the bass is strong and powerful . Definitely one of the best re-masters I've seen so far . Two intriguing documentaries , a trailer and a ' Meet the Stalkers ' gimmick are included in this 2-disc set that comes in a rather neat slip case .
A surprisingly good movie .	Low-rent slasher sequels are usually garbage , I mean has anyone seen Hostel 2 , The Grudge 2 or Hills Have Eyes 2 ? As a result I really wasn't expecting much of this movie despite enjoying the first , not merely for the gorgeous Eliza Dushku either . The premise is nothing new , but the characters , gore and inventive kills make it well worth watching . The always cool Henry Rollins ( who I'd pay money just to see reading the bible ) plays a retired Army Colonel who is now hosting a faux-post apocalyptic reality game show . The setting : the woods . But not just any woods , this is inbred hillbilly territory and they are only too happy to devour a bunch of young city folks . Erica Leerhseen ( who seriously does not look as old as she is ) plays Nina , the cynical , jaded one of the group who keeps her cool when the guts start spilling . Usually with these movies you can tell exactly who is going to die and in what order , but Wrong Turn 2 still managed to seem fresh . I wasn't simply waiting for characters to die or wishing that they'd hurry up and meet a grisly end , since such fodder are usually highly annoying . The one thing that I didn't like was the utterly flat photography . The original had a dark , grainy and hardcore look to it but the sequel just seems so clean and bright and open . I think that if Joe Lynch was perhaps a more experienced director then the film would look tighter and more dynamic , as it is the cinematography does little to compliment the above-average production design . If you are a fan of the first movie then I totally recommend that you give this one a go . It surpassed my expectations and I'm usually quite a snob when it comes to movies .
One of the better film licences	I first played this game on the C64 when I was about 10 and I thought it was pretty damn good . The graphics were blocky but the locations were quite atmospheric and it was a great button basher . Later on I played it on the Mega Drive , which had a few extra levels added . But somehow it just wasn't as cool . The extra Mega Drive levels included action in the Batmobile and Batwing in which you would blast the Joker's clown cars off the streets of Gotham or destroy the balloons full of poison gas . The music was also much better . I mean it's been years since I played that game and I'm STILL whistling those brilliant tunes . But there was just something about the C64 version that I preferred . I can't really put my finger on it . Of course , as all movie tie-in platformers were at the time , the levels are bizarrely designed with pits full of spikes and exploding walkways but the gameplay and atmosphere make up for that . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Great concept but falls just short of the mark	Second Sight has a brilliant story and a great idea behind the gameplay . You take on the role of John Vattic , who wakes up in a secure hospital / research facility with a battered , scarred body and a killer headache . He has no idea how he got there or what these people want with him . But he soon learns that he has extraordinary psychic powers such as telekinesis , self-healing , astral projection and the ability to possess baddies . So begins your quest to find out the whos and whys . Obviously there's a huge government conspiracy behind everything but the game has a unique storytelling twist as you play one level in the present and the next in the past , at the beginning of the story . It's a unique way of developing interest and involving you more in the mystery . It's very cool being able to sneak up on the baddies and tossing them around like ragdolls with your telekinesis . Chucking them through windows , off high ledges , slamming them into walls and ceilings is loads of fun . But I think this could have been taken further as it was a great opportunity for some cool , gory deaths and the simple blood splatters weren't really enough . The levels vary between hospitals , Siberian outposts , apartments , more hospitals , offices , sewers , labs and even more hospitals . For the most part they are pretty generic and ludicrously over-sized to make the game longer . It can get a bit boring wandering around for ages , avoiding torrents of gunfire , anxiously awaiting a quiet moment to pull yourself together . The music also walks a thin line of being atmospheric or generic . Sometimes it can get on your nerves and sometimes it can add to the tension of a scene . The voice acting is a cut above most games however and John Vattic's accent kinda grows on you . There's also a twist , which I won't spoil for you , that makes the game's complicated plot perfect for a theatrical film . It's fun , but it's long and there are a few annoying bits . And if Second Sight was more developed and detailed it would be a classic . As it is , it's merely fast food . Graphics B Sound B Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
Cutesy penguin	Not the Danny DeVito penguin I assure you . Bugs is on his way to Miami beach but , like usual , he cannot read a map to save his life ( it must be kinda tough to do underground I guess ) and ends up in the South Pole . After inadvertently saving the life of a cute little penguin from an Eskimo hunter ( in the south pole ? ) the penguin becomes too attached to Bugs to let him leave . Though Bugs cannot bear to look into the Penguin's sad little eyes he shoves him away to get back to his vacation to Miami . Only the little Penguin falls right into the hands of the hunter again and Bugs must use his old tricks of outsmarting and extreme cunning to save his life again . Funny ? Yes . Cute ? Yes . But still not as many laughs as you're used to getting from Bugs .
The reason TFTC died	While the first film was a solid , self-contained horror flick with a touch of humor and a fair amount of sophistication and imagination , Bordello of Blood falls apart under poor direction and a far too free-spirited nature . While it is a failure as a sequel it manages to entertain only as a brainless time waster . Dennis Miller does his best with the weak material and ad-libs a lot of humor . A little too much , taking the film even further from it's already vague ambitions . But worry not , his humor is still free and easy , unlike his cryptic ( no pun intended ) football commentaries . Erika Eleniak is marginally engaging and Corey Feldman is well underused . The weakest performances come from Angie Everhart as the ancient vampire Lillith and Chris Sarandon as the outrageously stereotyped southern TV evangelist . It's these performances that keep the film eternally low brow . It's sad that Tales from the Crypt totally died after this movie but the powers behind it went on to found the Dark Castle production company ( check out those movies they're actually quite scary and effective ) . The new version of Bordello of Blood is by Universal and is presented in it's proper aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic and is in Dolby 5 . 1 . The cheapo snapper case has been replaced by a sturdy keepcase and a new cover art . The only new extra is a trailer .
Play it in Fall or at Xmas	This sequel to Mickey's Castle of Illusion may have been far too easy but the level on animation ( at the time ) was wonderful and it had a strong Autumn atmosphere . The plot this time is that both Minnie and Daisie have been kidnapped by an evil witch ( the one from Snow White I think ) and it's up to the mouse and the duck to rescue them . I played as Donald of course as he is much better than Mickey . You should definitely pick this up if you find it ( and it you were clever enough to keep your Genesis ) . It's a simple and cute game but wonderfully nostalgic . The Genesis really was the best wasn't it !
Happy Duck Soldier	After being instructed to paint a huge cannon in camouflage colors Donald paints it in very noticeable spots and stripes . His drill sergeant obviously goes mad at him . Told to repaint it , Donald goes for a wander and comes across some experimental invisible paint . He wasn't told NOT to use it so why not ? Sure enough the paint works and he has a mighty good time fooling the Sergeant with typical invisible prankster tricks and singing his ' Army is not the Army anymore ' song . Yes , it is another one of Disney's wartime propaganda efforts . Making it seem like the Army is nice and friendly ( not an institution that goes on killing sprees ) and that invisible paint really is something that they mess around with . Good for a few laughs , not to be taken as a snapshot of actual army life .
Excellent considering it's age	For a 72 year old film , The Invisible Man has rather faultless special effects and still seem impressive in this age of CGI . The story is quite simple but it's wonderfully directed by James Whale and has a rather cool atmosphere and enough menace about it to make it a rather good thriller . Just like the more recent Hollow Man , the story is of a mad doctor ( Claude Raines ) who creates a serum that can turn a man see-through . As all mad doctors do , he experiments on himself and discovers the hard way that with transparent molecules comes insanity and a murderous streak takes over . Since I've not read HG Welles ' novel I don't know how true to the source material this film is but it's loads of fun and rather timeless . Don't let it's age put you off watching it . But some please gag that Innkeeper's wife ! ! !
Rather imaginative	Pinky is out for a stroll when he comes across a talking lamp ( why they call Genie Lamps ' lamps ' is beyond my understanding as they are clearly old-fashioned kettles ) that tries to sell him the pros of being a genie ( the life and soul of the party and so on ) . Pinky falls for it and crams himself into the lamp ( it's a kettle ) , eagerly awaiting his first wishmaker . But instead of being the life and soul of the party the lamp / kettle is kicked around , stomped on and thrown away by everyone it encounters , giving Pinky inside a rather rough ride . It's quite funny and I did feel sorry for Pinky . He only wants to entertain . And that he did , though by accident I think .
An honest copper ?	Well , not really . Donald plays the incompetent Officer 13 who cannot apprehend Tiny Tom , a wanted local criminal . In an effort to sneak himself into Tiny's dwelling Donald disguises himself as a baby , abandoned child of Tiny's pal trigger . Being the generous type ( ? ) Tiny takes him in and , amidst lots of suspicion and almost exposures , Donald tries in vain to slap the shackles / cuffs / ball and chain on him . Trouble is , Tiny wants to play with him too much . In the end Donald does manage to do the impossible and succeed at something by taking Tiny into custody ( by default ) but it's a funny cartoon with an unusually bleak-looking color pallet .
Incredibly silly but a good effort	You could criticize Freddy vs Ghostbusters for being amateurish , but that would be missing the point . Hank Braxton did a wonderful job with the material and pays loving tribute to both franchises . To be fair though , it's mainly a Ghostbusters film . The plot has Freddy tormenting the dreams of Denver kids again until the nephew of Egon Spengler turns up in town with his Ghostbuster Jnr . pal . After busting a nasty poltergeist in a bar they make it big in Colorado ( a brilliant montage follows ) and decide to investigate the rumors of Freddy Kruger . Will they be able to bust the dream demon once and for all ? Watch and find out . The only thing that really bugged me was the fact that the cinematography is far too static . Movies are supposed to move and too often the stillness of the scenes frustrated me and my attention wandered . It's really the only thing I can complain about . The actors were great and although they weren't hardcore professionals they still made me laugh .
Pack your bags	Mickey and Donald are way behind in their rent money . Sheriff Pete ( so tough he spits nails into the wall and hammers them in with his fist ) wants his house back and decides to sell their furniture to make up for the debt . As soon as the mouse and duck start to pack up their meagre belongings all hell breaks loose , as it usually does in a Disney cartoon . Ice Deliveryman Goofy is stalked by a runaway piano , Donald gets a plunger / goldfish bowl stuck on his behind and Mickey has trouble fitting everything into one suitcase . Obviously the Sheriff ain't so keen on this last minute buffoonery but he gets what he deserves in the end .
Get it for Sandra	You know the problem with buying porno DVDs is that too often you are just buying it for one scene . I guess if you could pick and choose which scenes you want to watch instead of being stuck with a bunch of girls you're not interested in it would be better . Perhaps this is why downloading specific scenes off the internet is gaining popularity . The one scene I recommend this DVD for is most definitely the last scene with Sandra Brown and her ( surprisingly large-bushed ) pal Kimberly . Sandra is such a gorgeous girl and so incredibly dirty she makes any scene arousing , even if she were just reading the bible fully dressed in frumpy clothing . Both her and Kimberly do regular sex in various positions on an outdoor sofa as well as anal ( oh , what a wonderful , wonderful ass she has ) . Sounds bland , but since it's her it's the best scene on the DVD . Please do more porn Sandy !
A film that almost never was	I hate being nostalgic about movies , but I do remember a time when imagination was evident in every part of a production , when film posters were dynamic , visceral and iconic , when films looked like they were shot on film and not an HD camera with a sunset tint , when scores were done by orchestras instead of synthesizers and death metal guitars and , most important of all , when the lack of CGI technology forced the filmmakers into achieving visual effects through more practical means . The 1980s were filled with such movies and , looking back , I am glad that I grew up in that decade . Children now are exposed to altogether soulless movies . Set in the late 21st Century , Enemy Mine has humans reaching out into the depths of space after achieving world peace . But a rival species , the alien race of the Drax , don't take to kindly to humans poking about the galaxy and an interstellar war kicks off . A human pilot ( Dennis Quaid ) and a lone Drac ( Louis Gossett Jnr . ) crash land on a remote desert planet and learn , the hard way , to stick together if they want to survive . Despite their ultimate conflict they discover that they are not all that different from each other and neither yet both are to blame for the war . Enemy Mine suffered from severe problems during production . Apparently the original director , Richard Longcraine ( Wimbledon , Richard III ) , shot the entire film on location in Iceland before being replaced by Wolfgang Petersen who re-shot the whole film all over again but changed the story somewhat in the process . So , in reality , there are two completely different versions of Enemy Mine . One which was released into cinemas that has become a classic in its own right and another that only exists in the vaults of Twentieth Century Fox . I would love to see this alternate cut . The fantastic photography and production design look very , very good for a film from 1985 . Some of the effect shots and matte paintings are simply gorgeous and the cutting between desert locations and desert sets is almost seamless . This isn't like an episode of the original Star Trek series in which the cast simply take a half hour drive to a bit of desert outside of LA , the desert locations with the matte painting backgrounds look utterly authentic . If you like the look and feel of films like The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth then you'll appreciate the fantasy of Enemy Mine . I know I am going to sound like an old coot but they just don't make films like this anymore . Everything these days seems to be geared towards the average ASBO teenage boy . In ten years time I honestly think that films will be no more than a test card that offends and stimulates no one . I will consider myself lucky that films like this were once made and that they were a part of my formative years .
What the hell is going on ? ? ?	Is a question I asked myself many times thru-out this movie . The plot lost me somewhere along the line when they mention a guy called the puppet-master . After that I hadn't a clue what to make of it . But that doesn't mean the film doesn't have some cool set pieces or that it's not worth watching . There is a cool moment when the girl is fighting a spider-like tank in an old deserted building . The music and the atmosphere of that scene is way cool and gunfire looks and sounds awesome . But there are some bad scenes too . Like the one where a character is wandering thru a street market and the music is made up of psalm singing . Ugh ! That scene is awful and I have no idea why the director allowed it to be in the movie . There is another scene which is also a direct rip-off of Predator with an invisible camouflaged villain being chased by an Arnie-like good guy hero . But although it was a rip-off it was still enjoyable . Only Manga fans and those who like to be REALLY involved with a movie should watch this . For all others it is just way too confusing and has too much influence from another culture . But anyways .
In vino veritas	Tom is given the task of guarding the fridge during the night by Mammy-Two-Shoes ( NOT re-dubbed by the PC brigade in the version I saw , would you believe ) , but as soon as he has started he is tricked by Jerry into falling into the basement , where he lands in a barrel of cider . Obviously , everyone has a barrel of cider in their basement ! Now drunk , Tom staggers around in the house getting up to no good with Jerry , clearing out the fridge , making a mess , waking Mammy-Two-Shoes . You can tell this will only end in severe punishment , but Tom simply casts caution to the wind and gets even more drunk by downing a bottle of rum he finds in the bathroom . Obviously , everyone has a bottle of rum in their bathroom . A mildly funny cartoon , nothing particularly amazing about it . Tom actually speaks in this one but no one is credited for his voice .
Don't worry little lady , I'll fix their wagon .	Short Circuit is one of those films I rented as a kid back in the precious 80s when we got so many good family movies that just wouldn't see the light of day in these awful times . A Short Circuit made in 2007 would be mind-numbingly PC with bullet-time effects and a CGI Johnny voiced by a hip-hop ' artist ' . It's a grim time for this genre indeed . But back in 1986 I had nothing to complain about as most of the family movies from that decade are fondly remembered as classics . I loved this movie as a kid and it's been a long , long time since I watched it from start to finish . Plus the VHS I rented back then was in horrid pan and scan with half the picture chopped-off . Which is a real shame since John Badham shot it brilliantly-framed Panavision . So I've never really seen the FULL movie until now . How does it hold-up 21 years later ? Well , I guess you could say Johnny Five is kinda dated but not so much as all the rest of the ' ground-breaking ' technology at the Nova factory . Number Five is a robot made for Military Stealth purposes and armed with a laser beam . But designer Newton Crosby ( Steve Guttenberg ) and his partner Ben Jabituya ( a non-Indian and very funny Fisher Stevens ) originally designed him as a marital aid , apparently . They are unhappy with the way Nova has marketed the robot but after a demonstration to the Military , Five is struck by lightning and assumes consciousness . Needing input and desperate to learn more about his surroundings , he escapes the factory and journey's across Oregon , soaking up knowledge and the idiosyncrasies of modern human culture . As a reflection of today's ' zany ' society , Five is full of spirit , personality and random pop-culture references . The Military are kinda annoyed at a potential lethal weapon ( not the Mel Gibson kind ) running loose about America , so it's their new mission to find him and destroy him . Five , who has been taken in by animal-lover ( not in THAT way ) Stephanie Speck ( a gorgeous Ally Sheedy ) does everything he can to stay out of harm's way . But they are persistent and won't let him live because they don't believe he is truly alive . It's not totally original since some of it feels inspired by the works of Issac Asamov and I doubt a film like this would have been green-lighted had E . T . not been so successful . But it is very enjoyable and funny and Johnny Five is a great character despite being nothing more than a puppet . Short Circuit is definitely a film for any kid born in the 80s . The video-game obsessed kids of today might to be so interested but its charming simplicity and good-natured story will never really date despite the old-fashioned ' cutting-edge ' technology featured in the film .
A Magic Twist	This is one of the best remembered Genesis games . Tho it's absolutely nothing special . It's almost totally like Streets of Rage with magic spells instead of special kung-fu moves and set in the dark ages . You can choose the big Conan lookalike Ax Battler , who uses earth magic . Tyris Flare , the She-Ra type amazon woman who uses fire magic or Gilius Thunderhead , the viking dwarf uses lightning magic ( and the character who actually uses the Golden Axe ) or team up in a two-player ( the best way to play the game ) . The story is a load of cobblers . Some dude called Death Adder ( and his son Death Adder JNR ) are up to some amount of evil and you've got to stop him . So on you go on your journey of hacking and slashing goblins , skeletons and various other guys in armor . It's fun , but not great . The sound effects are pathetic and do not show off what the Genesis was capable of . David Whittaker's music , while being slightly tuneful and medieval , was pretty bad and wasn't as memorable as Yuzo Koshiro's effort on the Streets of Rage games . A fun game to play right to the end once ( in a two player ) but not as memorable as it's following would suggest .
Treading water .	Metal Slug 4 is certainly the weakest of the series so far with rehashed levels and same-old baddies . You get the option of a new playable character ( or at least it looks like someone new ) but what is the point of having four separate , playable characters when they all have the same ability ? It's not even like they come with different guns . And why do you get a life bar when only one bullet kills you ? This game does give you the bonus of ONE new weapon-the double machine gun . But every time you pick it up someone will come along and kill you . Honestly , these games are so damn hard . It's fine if you have infinite continues or an infinite supply of quarters but how on earth they expect you to survive to the end of the level with all your stats intact is beyond me . They should remain until your next continue instead of vanishing with every life lost . Yes , the level design is brilliantly detailed and the humor is still there but it's too hard and it's getting mighty damn repetitive . Give us something new for Metal Slug 5 please .
London Bridge is Falling Down	Much like the Joel Schumacher film of 1993 starring Michael Douglas , this film is about an ordinary man with an ordinary job who is driven to insanity by the injustice and unfairness of his world . While both films teach us that no matter how solid it seems , everything will crumble under enough pressure there is no humor to TAORN . In fact it's the most depressing film like . . . ever . I don't know what made me go see TAORN . I'd heard nothing of it but I like Sean Penn and Naomi Watts ( they were in the brilliant 21 Grams together ) and everything else at the cinema I had either seen or looked crap ( Man of the House , Miss Congenatailiality 2 ) so I chose this , hoping it to be a dark horse . It was well made and acted but it's really , really heavy and I would not recommend it to anyone bored with their jobs or lives in general . Sean Penn plays the true story of Sam Bicke , a furniture salesman who is estranged from his family , his wife , his children , his colleagues . . . basically everything . He sees the fatcats around him growing richer and richer while he rots away in his inescapable reality of nothingness . He blames Dick Nixon for his woes , the fattest of all fatcats , the man at the top of the food chain . He believes that if he kills Nixon he might be able to make the slightest of changes to the racist , lying world . Of course he failed , but watching Sam Bicke crash and burn is a very painful thing to do . What makes it more distressing is that there is never a reason given as to why everyone deserted him . It gave the impression that anyone can be so callous and uncaring and that anyone can be driven to such insanity and desperate measures . Not a film to see with your girlfriend that's for damn sure but certainly an impressive , if tough to watch , piece of work .
Not exactly a Cancun booze-fest	Back when having a car was about as rare as three-legged ballet dancer Indy aims to impress everyone at school by turning up to the prom in a Bugatti race-car and put tormentor Butch to shame . His girlfriend's dad is Edward Stratemayer ( the guy who created the Hardy Boys , Nancy Drew and Tom Swift ) and promises to loan him the Bugatti until the engine fails . Desperate to get it fixed in time Indy takes it to Edison Industries to have the guys in the science lab fit a new electric battery into it . But since the oil company's are such a fiendish bunch they steal the plans for the battery and trash the lab , leaving Indy to rescue them on his own if he wants to make an impression at the prom . In the second half Indy travels to Mexico with his cousin to have a good time in a whorehouse but he is kidnapped by a bunch of Mexican Revolutionaries and pressured into fighting for their cause . He gets to meet Pancho Villa , trash William Randolph Hearst's mansion south of the border and antagonize General Patton . In the end he just wants to go home but not before getting revenge on Demetrius , the baddie who eluded him six years earlier in Egypt . A solid adventure with a good cast , though it's weird seeing Lloyd Owen still play the Connery role since his is one year YOUNGER than Flannery who plays his son . It works though . . . somehow .
An action sequel	In the tradition of other horror movie franchises , Phantasm takes the action route for this sequel . The horror and sci-fi are still there but there's more combat , stuff blowing-up and gore than there was before . I suppose it does keep things fresh but it does get a bit too tongue-in-cheek sometimes . Kinda like Evil Dead II , I'm not sure if this really fits in with the tone set by the first film . Phantasm II begins right after where the first film left off . The freaky dwarfs have invaded Mike's home and Reggie must foil the Tall Man's attempts at kidnapping him . Flash forward seven years and Mike is in a mental institution . He is released upon admitting that the whole Phantasm experience was made up only to find that in his absence the Tall Man has been plundering many of America's small towns and thousands of graves are empty . After the Tall Man kills Reggie's family in a gas explosion , Reg teams up with Mike to hunt him down and kick his head in . . . again . All they have to do is follow the trail of dead people , right ? And this time they are ready for whatever outlandish tricks he's ready to play on them , armed to the teeth with quadruple-barrelled shotguns , flame-throwers and chainsaws . Complicating matters are Mike's inexplicable visions of the future and psychic connections to a mysterious girl he has never met before . As before , the Tall Man is the best thing in the film . Angus Scrimm is so wonderfully silent and unholy that no matter how slick and entertaining the rest of the film is he'll come out on top . Don Coscarelli was given a budget 10 times that of the original by Universal , but they did interfere with production quite a lot , much to his annoyance . They said that only one of the original cast members could return , so he chose Reggie Bannister and re-cast Mike with James LeGros ( after turning down Brad Pitt ! ) . It does kind of ruin the continuity a bit but it's not terribly distracting . They also demanded a more simple and linear story , so don't expect any of the bizarre dream sequences and flashbacks . If you're a big fan of the first this might seem disappointing but you know how studios love to think less of their audiences . The higher budget helps Phantasm to have a bigger scope than the original . The first half of the film feels like a road movie with lots of pretty scenery while the rest is kind of like a low-rent Ghostbusters / Lost Boys clone . Which sounds like a negative point , but the hokey tone of the film vanishes when it heads off into HP Lovecraft territory . If you're looking for answers as to what the first film was all about then you won't find many . In fact it raises more questions than anything else . But it's still a fun ride . I'm just kind of annoyed that the music took the more generic synth approach that was common in the 80's instead of the funky 70's beats we got before . The main Phantasm theme is still there for your enjoyment however and gets a great finish on the end credits .
Puts you right in the movie	There's a lot to like and a lot to dislike in this game . First of all it sticks very closely to the way Nakatomi Plaza looks and sounds so you feel like you really are there . The music is a lot like that in the movie and adds atmosphere . But there are only like 2 tracks ! The blood splatter effects are quite cool but shooting a bad guy is the only way to kill him . In this sense the game is VERY linear . There is absolutely no freedom . You HAVE to do what the game wants you to do . Which is really stupid considering the effort that has obviously went into crafting each and every floor of Nakatomi Plaza . There are a lot more than just 12 terrorists here . Obviously the game has to be beefed up to about 300 to make it more exciting and a few new scenarios are added ( And some stuff , like the media attention of the siege , totally ignored ) . It was also very annoying to see the FBI Chopper STILL flying around after the roof has blown up . I guess this was just a cheap way to avoid a cinematic . The voice acting is also rather poor . It makes the cinematics hard to watch sometimes . And what's the point of having a CB radio ( a cunning excuse to plug a certain product ) when it is only used during cinematics and NEVER when you want . In the ancient Die Hard Trilogy you got lots of weapons . But in this all you get is the ordinary gun , some flash grenades and 4 machine guns . The best of which are sparsely featured in the later levels . You can't even get into fist fights . So the fight with Karl is non-existent . All you do is shoot him . Wow ! And chances for really cool stuff have been ignored . How cool would it be to chuck bad guys thru the windows or off the roof or down the lift shafts ? Doesn't happen . Even you jump off the roof yourself it just cuts to ' game over ' . But the worst thing is the ending . It's nothing like the movie , boring and dull . It takes a lot of patience to get thru and then . . . nothing happens . A cheap , tiny cinematic follows and the game returns to the title screen . Come on ! That's it ? By only if you are a fan of the movie . For the casual gamer this is dated stuff .
Life's a beach .	Tom is spending the day at the seaside with his girlfriend and is trying hard to impress her , as usual . But Jerry has stowed away inside the picnic basket and does everything he can to torment him while scoffing the food for himself . You might find this cartoon very , very similar to the more popular Muscle Beach Tom from the 1950s . But this one came first . There are some very funny painful tricks played on Tom , but they do get a little tiresome after a while . But most of them work . Highlights include Tom drinking some very sandy tea and chewing his own broken teeth . How this is physically possible I don't know . But it's funny .
Anderson's best and definitely better than the sequel	Okay , let me just say that the plot ain't exactly up to much . It's just one fight scene after another but this film is miles ahead of other video game movies like Tomb Raider or House of the Dead . Video games will NEVER make classic films or even half-way decent movies . They CAN be entertaining in a no-brainer way and at this Mortal Kombat succeeds . It's a low aim after all . The sequel is terrible but this is a pretty cool film . Cary Hiroyuki-Tagawa loves his role . He plays the part of Shang Tsung with unholy relish and delivers each line of dialogue like a REAL tyrant . ' Fools ! ' , ' Seize them ! ' and ' YOU-WILL-DIE ! ' are but three examples . All villains in all other movies can learn from this guy . There are three fight scenes in particular that are way cool . Liu Kang Vs Reptile , Liu Kang Vs Sub-Zero and Liu Kang Vs Shang Tsung . George S . Clinton's music is brilliant and the main Mortal Kombat theme is sooooooo cool . Also the music during the final showdown is ace . It does feel rather 90s when watching it today but when it sounds this cool , who cares ? A lot of the budget was clearly spent on production design as the sets are very impressive . That particular place that Scorpion takes Johnny Cage to , for example , is very atmospheric . Every scene in this film is like jumping from one theme park ride to another . Director Paul Anderson went on to make the dull ' Event Horizon ' , the terrible ' Soldier ' and the horrendous ' Alien vs Predator ' . After making such a promising start with Mortal Kombat one can only assume now that it was a fluke . The DVD leaves a lot to be desired . The film is in non-anamorphic 1 . 85 : 1 but does have a terrific Dolby 5 . 1 sound design . Though I would liked to have had a DTS option . There are also no features . Considering how much money this film made and that it was No . 1 at the box office for three consecutive weeks , I would have expected New Line to put a lot more thought into this DVD . I can only hope they release a Special Edition some time .
Don't mis-judge Mike Judge	I know a lot of you who have never seen Beavis and Butthead probably think very little of the show based on the low-brow nature of it ( I was one of them ) , but if you give this movie a chance you'll see that it's actually as well written and at times as , dare I say , subtle as King of the Hill . Beavis and Butthead have their TV stolen and when trying to get it back are mistaken for hit men by drunken drunk Muddy Grimes ( Bruce Willis , as I was rather shocked to find out once the credits rolled ) , who sends them on a mission to ' do his wife ' Dallas . Misinterpreting this as any horny teenagers would , B+B head to Las Vegas to carry out the terrible act . But we discover ( they don't , however ) that Dallas and Muddy are part of international weapons conspiracy and our two teen-aged heroes are being set-up to take the blame . So , as they take off across the country , causing absolute mayhem wherever they go , the ATF closely follow , giving full body cavity searches to everyone and anyone they meet at the order of head honcho Agent Flemming ( the late Robert Stack ) , who comes out with some brilliant , deadpan one-liners . The set-pieces are wonderful and the mushroom-induced dream sequence by Rob Zombie looks amazing . Mike Judge's animation style also brilliant . Avoiding bright , primary colors used in shows such as The Simpsons , Family Guy and Futurama , he uses mainly softer colors , pencil-effect scenery and water-color backgrounds . It's a sort of calming , easy-going animation style that he's totally made his own . You should totally check-out this movie . Don't be put off by what you may have heard or may think of Beavis and Butthead . You'll be conning yourself out of loads of laughs if you do . And look-out for Daria Morgendorfer in the ' Lesbian Seagull ' scene .
Fun to begin with , but gets boring	While it's loads of fun running around blasting people ( forget stealth ) and even more fun sniping from great distances , I found this game to get a bit boring about halfway through . There's just no variation on the gameplay between levels . Plus the game is basically a first person shooter , something I have grown VERY tired of . And even though there are loads of weapons to choose from , they basically all do the same thing . The Revolvers and Ballers were cool , blasting people halfway across the screen , but there is no breathtaking violence . How about limbs coming off , or decapitations or amputations when you whack someone with a fireaxe ? It's an easy game and always available cheap . Get it for a quick rush but don't expect a classic .
Certainly not sluggish	The action reaches new heights in this , the third game in the Metal Slug series . The action now takes place underwater , in the sky and out into space for those who have grown tired of gunning your way through streets and tunnels . The enemies you'll encounter now range from Yetis , giant lobsters , zombies and aliens . . . again . The levels , while occasionally offering non-linear routes , are quite short but still gorgeously detailed . But those who are sensitive to over-stimulation should beware some parts of the game , especially the E-P-I-C ( overlong ) last level could trigger epileptic seizures . Asides from that , the series is still button-bashing mayhem fun .
Weird , neither good nor terrible	As weird as Jason in space may seem , his fans finally got what they asked for - something new - when , after four false starts , this movie was finally made . Four hundred and fifty five years in the future , earth is dead and the recently defrosted J-Man finds himself aboard the Grendel , a field-trip vessel carrying students from Earth 2 . So , basically , Jason + teenagers = mass death . Something old and something new . Something borrowed , or nicked , are the best bits from the Alien movies . You know what's in store , long scenes of creeping around dark corridors before being carved up . What I don't get is the fact that the filmmakers knew that we didn't want Camp Crystal Lake AGAIN and so decided to take us as far away as possible from the previous nine movies . Why must they give us the ancient and decrepit stalk'n'slash scenario yet again ? Fresh zazz , or zing , or fizz , or even pop could have been added . But no ! It threatens to get very dull and the only thing that saves it are the gorgeous SFX , stronger production values and more determined than usual characters ( slabs of meat ) . James Isaac has had plenty experience in the horror genre and , along with his cinematographer , has given this movie a far more sophisticated look than most other horror flicks . Lighting is provocative and the colour palette is well thought out and bright . It's a shame that nothing of real genius , or imagination , occurs within this unique environment . Plus , I'm getting real sick of Kane Hodder , as Jason . At first , I liked him - F13 , Part VII , was his premier outing - but now he's changed the character too much . Instead of an evil , worm-infested zombie , with incredible strength , he's a massive brick shithouse , who moves slower than your average glacier . How can these kids not escape him ? The acting , by a bunch of Canadian TV folk , is tolerable . None has enough skill to bring any real humour , or depth , to roles . Who cares when they die ? The only interesting character is a female robot , or Fembot , as the Austin Powers movies put it , with no feelings - how ironic ! There's no good excuse for Jason X being so average . Even the presence of Uber-Jason - Robocop , only not friendly - is too little too late , although he , along with Janessa's cleavage , doesn't get enough screen time . If you're having a beer blast , or a stein-hoist , then Jason X is worth the rental . If you're after classical entertainment then . . . probably not .
More anachronistic mystery	Beginning with the usual explanation / apology as to why Holmes exists in the ' modern ' day , the film has the character travel to Washington to help solve where a British Secret Service agent hid a precious microfilm . It's not exactly Conan Doyle but it's very fast moving and sharply written . Unfortunately there are not many moments of atmosphere and the film is blandly shot like any other 40s movie and doesn't affect an air of mystery . Watson is a bit more of a comical buffoon than usual , but I find it entertaining even if it doesn't fit the original image of the character . The patriotic speech at the end ( typical of the modern , WWII Sherlock Holmes movies ) does feel tacked on and is pretty damn unsubtle .
Violent Night	The Walt Disney cartoons have always been the best at creating atmosphere . The Looney Tunes shorts really lacked in this regard , as their backgrounds were usually somewhat more generic . So obviously the Xmas-themed Disney cartoons are perfect to get you in the mood . Pluto's Christmas Tree also has an even more vibrant detailed color pallet than usual . This one has Mickey living in a mountain cabin with hyperactive Pluto . The go out one snowy night to find their Xmas tree . The tree that they just happen to pick is the one that is home to Chip and Dale . Once inside Mickey's cabin the chipmunks play tricks on Pluto and taunt him , all while Mickey thinks it's just his imagination . In the end , Mickey decides to keep them because hey . . . it's Xmas .
A fast-paced , inventive adventure	Mummy Returns takes the characters and story from the first film and develops on them in a big , big way . The situations and set-pieces are wilder , the odds even bigger and character arcs more complex . Set 10 years after the first movie Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz have made a rich living out of plundering tombs and pyramids . Who could have predicted that their old nemesis I'm-Ho-Tep would return faster and stronger than before . But I'm still having trouble seeing I'm-Ho-Tep as a villain . Surely it's the scheming , lying , conspiring supplicants that are the real villains . The look in his eyes at the end , when his lover betrays him , is heartbreaking . I can't root for him as a bad guy when he never really does anything bad . Sure he wants to rule the world and all but who doesn't ? The effects are not the best ( Star Wars Episode 2 used up all the space at ILM at the time ) but there are loads of them and they're all lavish and imaginative . I HATE movies that are carried by SFX but Mummy Returns incorporates them into the story in a seamless way . How cool is the big balloon ? Or the approach of Anubis ' army ? Most directors screw-up big budget , big scale movies ( AVP , King Arthur , Sky Captain , Exorcist Prequel , Catwoman ) but Stephen Sommers knows where the heart of this kind of movie is and delivers , once again , a cheeky adventure with loads and loads of action and enough story and character to back it up . Filmed in Panavision the 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture is perfect and the Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 is very loud and thundering . A very good soundtrack indeed . The extras are total fluff and not worth the time .
Bright Mice , Big Kitty	This cartoon has T & J living a quiet life out in a cosy country cottage . Tom is bored with country life and decides to leave for the Big Apple one night . Writing a goodbye note to Tom , he catches the next train to his new , exciting life . When he gets there he discovers that Manhattan is not so inviting to small rodents . Everywhere he goes , from Grand Central to posh dinner parties , he is tormented with the rude idiosyncrasies of big city life . Eventually landing in a dirty alley , he is run out of town by an army of hungry stray cats . Back the cottage , the still sleeping Tom ( who does nothing else in this cartoon ) has not yet read the note , which Jerry promptly tears up before going back into his mouse-hole . Better the Devil you know huh ?
What's cookin ' ?	Mammy-Two-Shoes ( who was actually NOT dubbed in the version I watched , would you believe ) has set up a huge banquet for guests of some kind , who will be arriving soon . Tom sneaks into the dining room and calls his girlfriend Toots , inviting her over . Using Jerry as a reluctant butler Tom tries numerous times to impress Toots and fails again and again . What was surprising about this cartoon is that it's a bit crueler than usual . The violence and pain were on level with an episode of Itchy and Scratchy . There is even one moment of torture in which Tom holds Jerry , in a teaspoon , over a candle . Hey , I'm not complaining . I'm not some nut who is against cartoon violence . I actually thought that this one was damn funny .
Never heard of this game .	Donald has snuck out of the barracks with the rest of the Privates . But he's the first to return and the first to meet the wrath of Sargent Pete , who is not impressed with his hijinks . A chase around the barracks follows as Donald hides from Pete and a possible thrashing . At one point Pete chucks Donald along a spiked fence and the little duck believes he's been cut in half . Donald and Pete both shed tears over this awful situation and Donald tries to end it all with a bullet to the brain ( sure this would never be allowed in a cartoon today ) . A mild plot revolving around a chase , seems more like the basis for a Tom and Jerry . Kinda funny though Donald has done better .
Big , dumb fun	This movie was made in 1985 , right after Terminator . I guess studios only had one way to sell Arnie in those days , as a bad-joke making killing machine . Although in this he gets to play a father to sweet , innocent Alyssa Milano ( ? ) . The movie is about John Matrix ( you heard me ) , a retired ( at 37 ) Commando leader who's team are all killed despite having new identities . Two soldiers ( as if they are any real protection ) are sent to keep an eye on Matrix and his daughter . But in this film you know they are only there to be killed right away . And I mean right away . If trained Commandos are killed easily what kind of safety are two junior Privates gonna make ? The real bad guys ( don't read this sentence if you don't want to know the ' twist ' ) are the hammy and stereotyped Latin Dictator Arius and the outrageously campy Bennett , who was thrown out of Matrix's unit and is out for revenge . Arius and Bennett want Matrix to kill the President of the fictional Latin American country of Valverde . Arnie kills 88 people in this film , some of them with bad but hilarious kiss-off lines . This film is supposed to be dumb . Some of the macho dialogue is quite appalling , but it's funny . Check out the fight scene between Matrix and Cooke . A number of revealing mistakes are noticeable in this movie . For example we can see a cable on Sully's leg when he is being hanged over the cliff . And when Matrix and Cindy crash into a telephone pole ( at 200 mph ) the heads of the dummy's come off . Needless to say that this film requires a constant suspension of disbelief . Like the scene where Matrix jumps from a 747 , when it's in the air , and survives unharmed . Or the scene where he hides in a rickety old shed and 1000 soldiers fire 1 , 000 , 000 bullets into it . Arnie walks out unharmed . Commando is pure entertainment . And entertain it surely does . But one last thing , when you consider the way Bennett dresses and ESPECIALLY the way he behaves ? it makes you wonder exactly WHY he was thrown out of Matrix's unit .
Lots of sex , nothing particularly special .	I only got this because of the incredibly cute Manami Yoshii , not because it stood from the rest of pornworld in any certain way . In this movie she is filmed gonzo style by a bunch of black guys driving around LA . They take her into a store and tease her with pornography . She acts all coy and shy but proves to be anything but a few moments later . She is taken to some kind of lair and repeated shagged by about 20 of them , over and over . They each cum on her face , so much so that almost her entire head disappears . The next scene has her in some kind of bedroom , wearing a pretty nice nightdress , once again being taken every way possible ( sadly , no anal ! ) and being cummed on . At the end , one of them picks her up and she pees on the floor . She then thanks them for a wonderful time . What a polite girl . Pick up cheap , if you fancy Manami Yoshii .
Crafty . Hokey . Utterly Demented	Honestly , I wasn't expecting to like CHUD . I only got it out of curiosity as it was one of those horror movies I used to see in the video store as a kid . While it may be low-budget schlock it's still rather good . John Heard plays a photojournalist who is suspicious of multiple disappearings in his New York neighborhood . The local Fuzz are suspicious too . As is a half-man soup-kitchen Reverend ( Daniel Stern ) . Together they uncover a ruthless plot by some government scumbags ( are there any other kind ) . The monsters may be cheap looking but they still make formidable bad guys and set pieces still excite . For all it's low-budgetness , CHUD still has a decent plot , good characters and , would you believe , a surprising twist near the end . Just try to ignore the tacky synthesizer score and enjoy the OTT silliness . And keep a lookout for John Goodman and Jon Polito . The DVD is in not bad-looking 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Mono sound . Extras are a trailer and a hilarious commentary track with Heard , Douglas Cheek and Christopher Curry but dominated by Daniel Stern .
Spooky Pink	Caught in a rainstorm out in the desert ( that cat sure does get around doesn't he ) the Pink Panther takes shelter in an old hotel in a ghost town . But the ghouls ain't gonna make it an easy night for him and play loads of amusing pranks . Initially , Pinky is oblivious to the hauntings but when he sees the skeleton on his bed a madcap chase around the hotel begins . There's a lot of visual humor in this cartoon and it's a bit more vividly drawn than the minimalist nature of most Pink Panther shorts , which adds to the atmosphere of the ghost town . It's a shame to see Pinky constantly victimized wherever he goes . But he manages to take it with coolness .
Has some good scenes but it's not a good movie .	This film was originally called " Screwface " after it's villain . But basically it's another excuse for Seagal ( wearing the same suit he wore in Hard To Kill ) to go around killing everyone in his own handsome style . But this time he's killing Jamaican drug dealers because they've marked him for death . He teams up with his old army buddy Keith David and takes on an entire army of them . Like you do . The action is affective and does excite but the rest of the movie doesn't generate much interest and leads us to believe that a lot of scenes were dropped . This could explain some of the confusion and plot holes ( we are told Screwface is so-called for a reason , which is never given ) and the trailer and R2 DVD cover features scenes and stills that are nowhere to be seen in the film . This movie injects a theme of voodoo that got me excited at first but disappointed me when nothing happens with it . Joanna Pacula is in the movie for about a minute but gets second billing on the cast list . Oh , it also has a bizarre plot twist that I won't ruin for you . Fox's DVD is not up to scratch . The 2 . 35 : 1 picture is not anamorphic and is troublesome . Very poor blacks and badly contrasted scenes mar the film . As I have said , upon viewing the theatrical trailer and spying the cover of the R2 release I can spot at least 2 deleted scenes . The insert card only lists half of the chapter stops the DVD has ( apparently the film ends at chapter 10 ) . The insert card also displays a picture from Under Siege 2 ( which is not even owned by Fox , but Warner ) . And if you think that is bad then wait for this . . . the back cover claims the DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 ( it's not ) and displays a picture from the 007 movie License to Kill ( which is owned by MGM ! ) . I can't imagine how that got in there but I have a good feeling Fox will re-release this in anamorphic and DTS sound . They did this with the Die Hard Trilogy , Predator and The Siege . Hopefully these errors will be corrected when they do so . Even if the sole extra is still the theatrical trailer I would still by re-release of M4D . The car chase and final rumble are way cool scenes and James Newton Howard's score is very cool indeed . I would only buy this for cheap as I am 99 % sure that Fox will re-release it .
Over-hyped but still worth a look	But once again actors in their mid-to-late twenties are playing teenagers and the effect of the film is totally ruined as they behave and act so unrealistic . While most people may consider this a cool movie just because of the scares and the over-hyped ' irony ' there is actually an intelligent plot with a pretty good twist . I notice this more as I am a writer and this is one of my fave horror / thrillers . I advise you not to watch this for the pumped up scares ( to a very loud soundtrack ) but for how a typical ' who's the killer ? ' plot line can be a little better than it is believed to be . Some of the characters can be really annoying . In fact the only one that doesn't enrage me is Dewey . His idiotness makes me laugh and diverts my attention from the other characters in the very slow ' character building scenes ' . The direction and photography are very bland . Wes Craven did a much better job of a real horror film with A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET . Here it just seems as if he aiming at the teen / popcorn market . You'll notice that , with these kind of movies , most of the characters ( not actors ) are teenagers and the tone of the film is mostly ' safe ' . In the Scream ' sub-genre ' there is never any REAL edge . After this movie was made , many , increasing bad , movies that were all exactly the same rolled off a conveyor belt in Hollywood . They were easy moneymakers . Craven knew this beforehand but deep , intelligent movies do not sit well with mass audiences . The blander the style of film is , the more popular it will be with the majority of audiences . The plot in this one redeems these bad qualities . I just wish for a real horror film to come out of Hollywood .
Should have been a franchise	Back in 1991 there was still only one way that studios could sell Bruce Willis and that was as various incarnations of his Die Hard hero . Even Eddie ( Hudson ) Hawkins had similarities to John McClane . Joe Hallenback is a sort of mix between McClane and Snake Plissken . Watching him mumble and grunt thru various near-deaths and close shaves makes for much fun . Hallenback is a P . I . and scrounges for work wherever he can find it . So he takes up a job protecting a stripper named Cory and soon finds himself in a lot of trouble . Bad guys are trying to get him left right and centre and his bratty 13-year-old daughter tagging along doesn't help much . The bad guys are truly evil and Hallenback seems more like an anti-hero . This adds to the rough nature of the movie and heightens the sense of adventure . Tony Scott's style of direction is best suited to this type of action flick . The flashy , exotic editing and cinematographic techniques lend a lot to the witty script and compliment the seedy or pretty locations . Shane Black has also written dozens of one-liners and riddled the script with funny dialogue and exciting situations . It's no surprise that this was once the most expensive script ever sold in Hollywood . Some people say that this film is too violent and misogynist but I honestly cannot understand what they are talking about . I guess it was just a little out of the norm back in 1991 . But still the tone of the film is so light and enjoyable you begin to wonder how this never made up for it . Check it out for yourself and I am sure that you will enjoy . Love that opening song , man .
Severely under-rated sequel .	Home Alone 3 has a lot of unfair criticism . I mean , how many of you would really have wanted a 16-year-old Mac Culkin doing the same-old same-old to Harry and Marv . Of course it was a better idea to do in a different direction and with John Hughes still producing and writing you know there's going to be a good amount of imagination and creativity . This time around we have 8-year-old Alex Pruitt defend his house against international criminals . Stuck at home with Chicken Pox with both his parents tied-up in work matters , Alex suspects foul play on his snowy street when he witnesses strangers poking around in his neighbor's house . Of course , no one believes an imaginative 8-year-old so he has to deal with them himself . It turns out that a toy car Alex got from the old-lady across the street is actually a Trojan horse to smuggle a priceless defence microchip to the North Korean mob . They really ought to hire better criminals as they fall for every one of Alex's sadistic booby-traps . Yes , that is basically the whole plot but it gets enough mileage out of it and it's still very funny . Set in January , it lacks the Xmas feel of the first two , but I guess that would have just been a distraction . John Williams ' theme only gets a brief recital at the start , but from then on it's an adequate ( if not exceptional ) score from Hans Zimmer pal Nick Glennie-Smith . Despite these key differences of characters and theme , it still feels like it has enough continuity with the others . It's a totally worthwhile and enjoyable sequel that has a bad rep for no reason . Home Alone 4 on the other hand . . . now THAT is BAD !
Still no consistent plot , but a fun adventure anyways	In this instalment Indy travels to Africa and meets up with President Roosevelt on a safari trip . Keen to hunt down a rare animal Indy helps the President out by going off on his own with a local tribes-boy and getting into the usual trouble . He's not happy with Teddy gunning down all the wildlife and urges him to limit his killing . It's a believable development since he found the hunting of the famous ' Teddy Bear ' to be un-sportsmanlike ( it was later killed anyway ) . The film then moves on to Paris where Indy meets a young Norman Rockwell and sneaks off into the city where he meets Pablo Picasso ( played by Danny Webb , who you might recognise as Morse from Alien 3 ) . I found this scene to be a bit confusing as Picasso is Hitler's exact double in the movie , right down to the hair and moustache and everyone knows that Hitler was a failed artist before a dictator . So when we are introduced to Picasso as a man who is adamant that his art is understood I immediately got it wrong . The lack of plot is kind of annoying , but it's a decent movie .
A nice Xmas Cartoon	That is for some reason tagged onto the reels for the very halloween-y Wallace and Gromitt's Curse of the Wear Rabbit . It would have made more sense for this film to be tagged onto something in December but hey-ho . I've not actually seen Madagascar , so I'm not immediately familiar with these characters . But I have to say that the penguins were very funny . The story has one of them leave Central Park Zoo to look for the perfect Xmas present , only to end up an Xmas present himself . The other penguins soon follow him to a posh apartment building where a blind old lady plans to give him to her evil pet poodle . Very funny antics and hijinks follow . I wouldn't be surprised if this cartoon were nominated for an Oscar come February .
Limited appeal	Once you finish Def Jam : Fight for NY there's not much reason to go back to it . But as a VS game it's one of the best . I'm so sick and tired of utterly endless Tekken / MK / Soul Caliber / etc variations with effects and moves that are far too fantastical . Def Jam gives us real , bloody , bone-crunching action with characters we know and recognize from real life . For those of you who like this simple form of gameplay I urge you to get this game above all . The Pros : Amazing graphics . Simply GREAT music . Grim satisfaction in breaking an opponents bones . Cool finishing moves and slo-mo shots . Involving cut-scenes . Gorgeous girls . Henry Rollins . The Cons : Incredibly linear story progression . Far too many long loading times . Massive range of clothing that differs little . Same for tattoos . And jewelery . Weapons too difficult to pick up ( if you stand over it and hit the pick-up button your character will often foolishly grab at a non-nearby opponent instead of the weapon ) . Poor crowd animation . No opportunity to customize player name , resulting in bland text when other fighters have cool fonts and logos . Repetitive gameplay . Playing areas are not big enough . Could have been gorier . No reason given for main characters motivations / involvement . It took me just over a week to finish this game . And once it's over there's no point in going on unless your playing head to head with a pal . But at that point you're likely to be so advanced in your stats you'll make easy work of them . Rent this game .
Very Bunny	I was never too interested in the character of Rocky , he always seemed too one-dimensional and monotone . Of course this is intentional but I could never excited when a Rocky and Bugs cartoon came on . He was however great in Daffy's Golden Yeggs . This time around Bugs is taking it easy in the city as Rabbit Season ( DUCK SEASON ! ) is kicking off in the country . He hails a taxi to go for a cruise but ends up in the backseat of Rocky's getaway car . Seconds later , Rocky has robbed a bank and is using Bugs as a hostage . Bugs a hostage ? Puh-lease ! He's got more wits and cunning in his baby finger than both Rocky and Mugsy together . Very clever hijinks follow with a very funny ending .
Very scary imagery	But the only thing scary about the plot is how much has been cut out to create a bare-bone running time of 93 minutes . I think that if I were really in The House on Haunted Hill I would go insane just like the ghosts . The film does create a heavy atmosphere of dread and pure evil . This is where the film succeeds best . Where it fails the most however is that it's very corny with some truly dreadful dialogue here and there . Geoffrey Rush is terrific as Steven Price , an extravagant theme park owner who has set up an elaborate birthday party for his wife . That party is in the titular house and if the 5 guests can survive the night they get $1 , 000 , 000 each . But his wife isn't THE friendliest woman in the world . Even if the house weren't haunted it would be an awkward party . The ending is a BIG letdown and is very lazy on behalf of the director and writer . For a film that scared us with imagery and the unseen , the ending ( in which CGI tries to impress us to death ) is such a disappointment . This film went head-to-head with The Haunting in 1999 . But this loses points right away because The Haunting is in 2 . 35 : 1 and this is in 1 . 85 : 1 . You don't get the same sense of scope . Rent this movie for a night in with your friends .
Hyper-kinetic , if unfortunately slight , action flick	I'm not really convinced of this free-running thing . The only time I really see it on TV is when it's involved in some kind of baggy-pants , ' yoof ' skateboarding crap . I was intrigued to see how it would end up in an action movie . In recent years , Luc Besson has been making quite a name for himself in producing loads of tough , anti-Hollywood values action movies ( though the less said about the downright awful Le Transporteur II the better ) . One of his pals , Cyril Raffaelli , who had small roles in Le Baiser mortel du dragon as one of the blonde non-twins and Le Transporteur , is pretty much the most flexible , extreme martial artist in movies today . Christ almighty , can we possibly make this guy anything more than just ' movie star ' ? Demi-God ? Teaming him up with Parkour ( free-running ) ' founder ' David Belle for movie with loads of jumping , kicking and shooting seems like such a wonderful , high-concept idea . And it is . Mostly . Set in 2010 , in which the slum of Paris has been walled off from the rest of the world , a stolen nuclear device has fallen into the hands of ruthlessly evil gang boss Taha ( Bibi Naceri , who also wrote the movie ) and it's up to renegade cop Cyril and not-so-good pal David to go into the slum and beat-up all the scumbags . The action scenes are brilliant and feature some of the coolest martial arts sequences in ages . All with a slight touch of humor . The tone of the film is somewhere in between the light-hearted nature of the Taxi movies and the violence , mean spiritedness of Le Baiser mortel du dragon . It's all wrapped up in a lean 85-minutes but it just lacked that one final punch to knock us out of our seats . A special mention must be made for the gorgeous former porn-star Dany Verissimo ( check out some of her stuff , she's awesome ) , who plays David's kidnapped sister . I just have a thing for slutty-looking girls in torn suspenders with running mascara . Meh ! One helluva cool action movie , just falls short of being one you can enjoy a zillion times over .
Just too damn hard !	I had a lot of fun playing Mario and Luigi : Partners in Time , but in the end it just proved to be too damn hard . Overall , there are more pros than cons but it's a close call . Pros : Very cute , quite funny , gameplay is easy to get to grips with , nice graphics . Cons : Too hard , loads of very , very long cut-scenes , not much to differentiate it from every other hand-held RPG out there , power-ups not so powerful , can get a bit repetitive , did I mention those cut-scenes ? I really must continue this gripe . It's something that is increasingly common in RPGs . I am sick to death of sitting through endless dialogue bubbles of generic dialogue . There should be a button that you can choose to press to skip by it all . But there's not . Even when you lose against a boss and have to try again you have to suffer the same crap over and over . I got completely sick of it . The worst part was when I spent 45 minutes killing a near-impossible boss only to be tortured with 15 minutes of unskippable dialogue crap . I was fighting against the clock as my DS was almost out of power . In the end I could not save it in time and I lost my game . If there was a way to skip the stupid dialogue I could have . It's at this point I gave up on M & L : PIT and I had to resist the urge of throwing my DS against a wall . Man , writing this review has gotten me so angry again that I am seriously thinking about retracting my score . Graphics A Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
' Can you get pregnant when it goes in there ? '	While not exactly a ' part 2 ' kind of sequel to Welcome to the Dollhouse , Palindromes is more than a film just set in the same universe . Several characters from Dollhouse are featured and many references are made to events in said previous movie . It's best to be familiar with Dollhouse first before watching Palindromes . Dawn Weiner , our lovely protagonist from Dollhouse , is dead . She committed suicide after getting pregnant from a date-rape . And even in death people cannot hold back on talking trash about her . Her 12-year-old cousin Aviva ( she IS 12 , a lot of people are mentioning various ages , she only turns 13 at the end ) is so affecting by her tragic life that she vows to never turn out like her . Her mum ( Ellen Barkin who appears to have had some dodgy face-lift ) promises that will never happen as she loves Aviva more than Dawn's family loved her . Which could not be further than the truth . As soon as she becomes pregnant to some horny boy Aviva's mum shows her true colors . She is selfish , ignorant and downright cruel . Her dad also . They may well be angry but that's no excuse for the pressure they put her under . Aviva is forced into having an abortion . But it goes wrong and she ends up having an emergency hysterectomy . Thinking only of the effect it has upon herself , Aviva's mum keeps this part secret from her . Obviously devastated at the lost of her unborn child , Aviva takes off on a journey to find a new lover and make a new baby , unaware that she never will . Upon this journey Aviva is played by many different actresses , all of whom portray her with the same facial expressions and mannerisms . She meets a variety of characters , including her cousin Mark ( Dawn's older brother ) , a trucker who isn't a pedo but loves her anyway and family of disabled Jesus loving Christians who secretly fund abortionist assassinations . It's bizarre and sometimes outrageous journey full of some typical Todd Solondz moments ; scenes where the far-fetched becomes very believable because human-nature often stretches beyond normality when no one is looking . It was sad to see that Mark Weiner's life ruined in the way that it is . But he came through as a more mature and sympathetic character than the bully older brother he was before . And he did have some good scenes . Now , about the whole pre-teen sexuality thing . I do not have a problem with this but I know a lot of people do . I don't find anything offensive about it but this is the third time Solondz has tackled the subject . Is he into it ? Is he against it ? Does he find it humorous ? Or does he just use it as an easy way to rile us up and make us react ? While it's integral to the story , it's not anything a fan of Solondz hasn't seen before . Palindromes more than about a girl who's name is the spelled forwards as backwards . It's a film about how life goes around in circles and no one really ever changes or goes anywhere . It sounds like a pointless journey when I put it that way . But it's worth it .
Metal Slug 2 Redux	Those of you thinking that Metal Slug X is a brand new game are mistaken , I am afraid to say . It's actually just a little bit bigger and a little bit better version of Metal Slug 2 . It was a fine game on it's own , but now you have some slightly altered enemies and new graphics here and there . It's not a major improvement and almost doesn't justify it's reason to exist . But since I got it included in my Metal Slug Anthology for the Nintendo Wii it's not like I went out of my way to pay extra for it . It's inclusion in this particular package is a mystery since one cannot possible feel the need to play it immediately after Metal Slug 2 . SNK should have replaced with Metal Slug Advance at the very least . A fun shooter nonetheless .
A highly enjoyable , though very mixed-up , action film .	I'll admit I knew absolutely nothing of this film until I walked into the cinema . I saw no ads on TV or blurbs on the internet . And as far as I knew it was a remake of the movie with Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines . Well , it's not ! It's actually a rather bizarre actioner . I'll get to that in a minute . First of all , if you are kind of annoyed at the lack of good , old-fashioned R-rated action movies these days then this film will definitely set the balance straight . There are many , many , MANY gory , and even sometimes shocking , deaths in this film that make A History of Violence look like an episode of Sesame Street . It plays like one of Robert Altman's multi-story character dramas . At the very beginning we are treated to a bloody gunfight in a motel room after a drug deal goes sour . Head thug Tommy ' Tombs ' Perello ( Johnny Messner ) instructs henchman Joey ( Paul Walker ) to dispose of his gun . He was going to right after dinner but the battered kid next door nicks it to shoot his abusive father and legs it across Brooklyn . Joey must then find him and make up a story to prevent a zillion plot threads ( involving crooked cops , rival Mafia families , evil pimps , child rapists / killers ) from snapping . The gun itself is a curious MacGuffin . It passes through the hands of many people who's lives all connect . There doesn't seem to be any main story as the film spends equal amounts of time developing every one and although it seems interesting it also feels like loads of different films crammed together . It's constantly meandering and going in another direction and revealing twist after twist . Yes , it keeps the film interesting but by the time the main twist comes at the end you're too exhilarated too care . Running Scared is probably one of those films that improves upon repeat viewings . Besides the schizophrenic story , what really brings the film down to a slightly above-average experience is the fact that director Wayne Kramer uses every editing technique he can think of despite whether they are appropriate or not . They may be technically impressive but they lack class and pull the film into a kind of Michael Bay-Area , where it doesn't belong . I was also kind of weary of the fact that it headlines Paul Walker . I've never liked any of the teen-oriented movies he's been mugging in but I have to say that this is definitely his most demanding role yet and he tries really , really hard to convince . But I'm still undecided about him . If he can pull off this kind of this kind of role again and ditch the pretty-boy image I'll forgive him for previous crimes . But the highlight of the movie is Cameron Bright who plays Oleg , the abused kid . He's a way better child-actor than Dakota Fanning and can express loads of different emotions even with a blank face . The amount of nasty stuff his character goes through is probably unfamiliar and difficult for a child-actor to understand but he handles it extremely well and his scenes with Paul Walker are faultless . Don't put the lack of publicity for this film put you off . It's not perfect but it's far from being a failure . Like I said , it'll probably be better on a second viewing but the first one will still be a thrilling experience .
Go back . Go . . . beyond .	Since the original Poseidon Adventure raked in so much dough , Irwin Allen wanted to get a sequel off the ground right away . It would eventually take him 7 years to get it made and in that space of time it would go through many changes . To begin with , Beyond the Poseidon Adventure was to star Borgnine , Buttons and the rest of the survivors . After being rescued by the French Coast Guard they were to be transported to safety by train through the French Alps . A tunnel cave-in was to trap them all over again amid other , more sinister , drama . That idea was soon squashed . Hackman didn't want to return ( as Reverend Scott's brother ! ) and even though poster art was created ( you can still find the train / gun image out there ) , that's about as far as production got . Allen focused on making other movies for the time being . Then , in 1978 he asked Paul Gallico to write a sequel . Gallico obliged but died before Beyond was published . His novel had Rogo , Martin and Manny Rosen being forced at gunpoint to return to the ship to plunder its secret cargo . Bandits , pirates , double-crosses and macabre plot developments followed . Unable to convince Borgnine and the others to return at this point , Allen changed the story to accommodate a bunch of new characters . This Mike Rogo became Mike Turner ( Michael Caine ) and Bandits and Pirates became Stefan Svevo ( Television Savalas ) and his group of terrorists . Beginning just before the storm in which the Poseidon capsized , Turner and his crew ( Sally Field and Karl Malden ) are out in Jenny the Tugboat . Turner loses his cargo and worries about the bank taking his precious boat away . New Years Day arrives and the sea is calm once again . Turner sees the French Coast Guard chopper buzzing overhead and figures there must be something interesting over the horizon . Interesting indeed . An abandoned 5-star , world-class super-liner designed to carry hundreds of wealthy passengers . There's sure to be riches to plunder and a quick trip down to the Purser's Office ( the idiot who chose to die in the first ) might save Jenny from the banks greedy hands . ' Doctor ' Stefan Svevo ( trying saying that while drunk ) and his group of suspicious men dressed in impeccably white clothes follow Turner inside , hoping to save some remaining survivors . Yeah right ! Svevo just happens to be after a secret cargo of guns and plutonium and has an agent still stuck on-board . Turner and his crew find the Purser's safe quite easy and load up on the loot . But they also find a bunch of stranded passengers including a very young-looking Peter Boyle , Slim Pickens , Mark Harmon and Jack Warden as a blind writer . His quick trip to pinch the riches turns into the much more noble task of leading the rest to safety . But once they discover Svevo's plot a fight breaks out . I think that BTPA has had an unfair amount of criticism . Until the 2006 DVD release the film suffered 27 years of pan and scan TV screenings and videos , which completely screws up the scope photography . Seeing the film in widescreen , as intended , gives it a much slicker look . But I wasn't too impressed with the set-decoration and lighting . The Poseidon was already trashed and unstable before the first survivors escaped . By now it should be seriously threatening to sink or explode and the sets should reflect how much stress the ship is under . But they do look too spotless and the lighting is too bright and un-atmospheric . And , just so you know , a ship of this size would have more than one kitchen . So moans about it ' already being flooded ' are invalid . And I do think that the ending is kind of abrupt and rushed . It was a bit of a let-down having finish with such a lame , flippant finale . And , despite , previous criticisms , I do think that the characters are just as good as before . I felt sorry for Jack Warden when his wife died , or when Michael Caine realised that he lost the gold . Wilbur ( Karl Malden ) was a good character too and I think that his exit from the film was less than what he deserved . There is also more continuity with the original than the negative reviews proclaim . So don't let that put you off . It's had a bad reputation , but BTPA isn't as bad as pretentious movie zealots would have you think . If you are a fan of the original then it is at least worth a rental .
Short , but entertaining	From the bulk of reviews on this site I gather most people don't realize that IMAX is about presentation and style rather than story and content . Shot on vertical 70mm film the reels in the projection booth take up a huge amount of space , thus the running time of IMAX movies tends to be kept to around 45-50 minutes . Thus the format lends itself more towards the documentary / short movie genre . Most of the movies are factual but sometimes original stories come along . T-Rex : Back to the Cretaceous is one of them . It came out in 1998 and when I was at the Trocadero IMAX-3D cinema in London I had to choose between this movie and another called Across the Sea of Time . I chose the latter . Which is a shame coz the dinosaurs and huge shots of this movie would have looked better in 3D . T-Rex begins with an impressive opening shot of the camera swooping over the Arizona desert , which still looks great even on a widescreen TV instead of the huge IMAX screen . There's a hefty narration from the lead actress conveying relevant information about dinosaurs . In this respect the film feels a bit like a 10-year-old's educational program . But being familiar with IMAX movies I was expecting this . I think too many people were expecting a Jurassic Park variant . Tho I would have expected a few more dinosaurs . In the 45 minute running time there wasn't much dinosaur action . Though there was a good amount of story that I did get into . Plus the movie has a great score by William Ross . He released a promo CD of this score but it's impossible to find . Hey , I was entertained and I thot the brief story was quite okay . The horribly slanderous reviews on this site really baffle me . The IMAX format does not work well on DVD , you have to see these movies in the cinema . But if you have a good sound system then the DVD is still worth it . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 full frame ( they are shown theatrically at 1 . 44 : 1 so there isn't much modification to the framing ) with a Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack that is quite impressive . A slight featurette and an IMAX movies trailer are also included .
I ain't lion	Tom is listening to smooth jazz on the radio when the tunes are interrupted by an announcement claiming that a lion has escaped from the circus . Freaking out , Tom slams shut every window and makes a barricade in the corner where he arms himself with a rifle . Meanwhile , in the basement , Jerry finds the lion hiding in the shadows . He's desperate to get back to Africa as he hates life at the circus . Jerry agrees to help him , but the lion needs a bite to eat . The joke of the cartoon is that Tom never actually sees the lion , believing that the one foiling him during every attack is Jerry . There's a few good visual jokes and it's one of the better shorts , if forgettable in the long run .
I want a Penguin	Though , let's face it , it would probably be not as cute as the one in this cartoon . For some reason a pal of Donalds sends him a penguin as a present out of the blue . Donald doesn't quite know what it is ( despite hunting them in The Polar Trappers cartoon ) or how to work it . He freaks when he sees that the penguin , called Tootsy , has eaten his goldfish but apologises when it turns out he didn't . So to make Tootsy feel better Donald gives him a fish from the refrigerator . Which means that Donald has fish for pets and for dinner . A bit odd . So annoyed is Donald by his inability to care for Tootsy that he tries to execute him but ends up only loving more . Still , it's a funny cartoon and it's good to see Donald making pals .
Ch ch ch ah ah ah	No Jason Voorhees is not out to kill Donald but it IS Friday the 13th and Donald is a messenger-boy who must deliver a suspicious package to number 13 on 13th street . Inside the package is a bomb set to go off at midnight by a couple of unseen thugs . Who they are and why they want to blow up someone else is never know . What this cartoon focuses on is Donald's conflict with a black cat who has crossed his path . Yes , you can pretty much figure out that Donald is going to lose his tempter and go mad , delaying delivery of the package and risk blowing himself to smithereens . But the color pallet of this short is dark and noir-ish and is a welcome difference from the usual sunny atmospheres Donald finds himself in . A better than average Donald Duck cartoon .
Way ahead of it's time	Which is why many people never got it . They were probably expecting Die Hard or a hard action film but this is delightfully lighthearted and funny in a silly kind of way . No way is it meant to be taken seriously . Like a film where thieves time their robberies to songs is supposed to be real ? Eddie Hawkins ( Willis ) is the Hudson Hawk , the greatest cat-burglar who ever lived and he has been blackmailed by the CIA and an OTT camp villain couple called The Mayflowers ( Richard E . Grant and Sandra Bernhard ) . Against his will he is shipped off to Rome ( literally ) to steal some of DaVinci's greatest works . His friend Tommy ( Danny Aiello ) and an undercover nun ( Andie MacDowell ) assist him as he robs the Vatican and tries to shake off a bunch of MTV-generation CIA agents called the Candy Bars ( Kit-Kat , Butterfinger , Snickers and Almond Joy ) . Much adventure and comedy follows . It's got lots of silly humor and cool stunts and is richly bizarre too . Quite refreshing really . Don't watch this expecting anything else than deliberate silliness . It's a film I can watch when I'm in any mood as it is major fun . The DVD is in pretty plain Dolby 2 . 0 surround and is anamorphically enhanced at 1 . 85 : 1
You're not even running for office , Charlie Brown .	With the office of class President available in the coming elections Linus and Russell compete with each other in an effort to take over the school . Lucy threatens most of the students into voting for Linus while everyone else pitches in and helps . Even Snoopy and Woodstock help out with the picket signs . Snoopy also comes to school as ' Joe Cool ' and fails to impress anyone . Linus wins the campaign by one vote but turns himself into a laughing stock when he mentions the Great Pumpkin in his inauguration speech . It's fun and entertaining , even if some of the scenes bear no relevance to the story . Why exactly is Snoopy turning up to class ? And the title is a bit odd . Charlie Brown doesn't even compete , so he's obviously not going to be elected .
Better than Sword of Storms	The first animated Hellboy movie wasn't bad but I didn't like the Japanese mythology and I felt like Big Red should have had a more accessible story after the 2004 movie . Blood and Iron keeps the action in America ( with the exception of a few flashbacks ) and focuses on a haunted house . The BRPD are assigned to a case involving a mysterious mansion in the Hamptons where spirit Erzsebet Ondrushko ( based on Elizabeth Bathory , the legendary Blood Countess ) , defeated by Professor Broom in the early 40s , plots her own resurrection after selling her soul to Hecate , the queen of the witches . The Professor joins HB , Liz and Abe ( clearly this is set before the movie ) in solving the case so he can finally put the Blood Countess out of action forever . The humor is as dry as ever and the animation would shame both traditionally animated shows and all the modern 3D CGI rubbish . I wish all animation could look this good without having to resort to the ugly aesthetics experimented with in Batman : Gotham Knight . With so many Hellboy graphic novels out there these animated movies could go on for ages if they were to base their stories on them . Blood and Iron itself is based on the ' Wake the Devil ' storyline from the comics . It's far superior to modern cartoons . And what's with the 15-rating in the UK ?
An improvement over 4 , no doubt .	With newer enemies ( from generic to final bosses ) and more original level designs , Metal Slug 5 is a clear improvement over the previous entry in the series . But it's still a near impossible game to survive through with all of your stats intact . This time the levels include jungles , deserts and factories . It doesn't sound like anything new but at least their isn't the heavy sense of Deja Vu that plagued Metal Slug 4 . Though I still have no idea why your character gets a life bar when the tiniest contact with a bullet kills him / her . And please , give us some new playable characters next time , or at least change their clothing . A fun shooter nonetheless , but it does seem a little shorter than the others .
Tee ( hee )	The cartoon begins with Tom in the middle of a VERY bad game of golf . Already about 86 over par he , for some reason , uses Jerry as a Tee . Not taking kindly to this Jerry turns the table and plays tricks on Tom . And that's pretty much it for the rest of the cartoon . This one has quite a thin premise but gets enough mileage out of it I guess . The visual jokes are all rather amusing but I do feel sorry for Tom when he's victimized in such a way . Whether it's being stung by a hoard of bees or having his teeth smashed out by a rogue ball , Tom seems to get more than his usual share of pain in Tee for Two . Does that make me a bad person for thinking that it's funny ?
Too short and slightly contracted but still worthwhile	Libraries and bookstores often put Hound of the Baskervilles in the horror section , well I never thought of the book to be exactly that . As Sherlock Holmes mysteries go , it was a long if nothing truly outstanding . There have been many movie interpretations over the years including Hammer horror versions , spoofs and multiple TV movies . There was even a silent version before this one , if my memory serves me correctly . So I guess it's one of the more famous of the original stories . Produced by 20th Century Fox , this was the first of 14 Holmes adventures to star Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce ( descendant of ' Robert The ' ) as Holmes and Watson . It stays fairly faithful to the book but misses out some of the meatier parts . Barrymore and his wife ( here called Barryman instead ) are no longer secretly brother and sister and the presence of the hound isn't as oppressive as it seemed in the novel . And it's obvious that the movie is clearly not really shot on Dartmoor but on a sound-stage in California . But it's none the worse for that . The studio setting actually lends a unique atmosphere to the gloomy Grimpen Mire and I especially like the dark and shadowy Baskerville Hall . I just wish more happened in and around it . The chemistry between Rathbone and Bruce here already seems to be perfect . Watson and Holmes have an original friendship and , as actors , they take advantage of that to accentuate their performances . I am aware that all Holmes / Watson combination of actors have done this over the years , but not as frequently as these two . A good timekiller , I just wish they made it longer .
Big movie on a small budget	I cannot believe that for a film made for 8 million dollars you get a million times the movie that Battlefield Earth was . Ironic ? No , just good film-making . If Willem Dafoe doesn't win an Oscar for this on the 25th of this month then there is no justice . The photography is outstanding . The music is creepy and atmospheric and the setting is both original and photogenic . The cast was also perfect , I never quite liked Eddie Izzard until this and John Malkovich was effortlessly impressive as the eccentric German filmmaker Wilhelm Frederich Murneu . I really do wonder how much of this film was true . I wish people would realise that not all Hollywood films are bad and not all independent films are good . All movies have to be are well made , well written and well acted . And Shadow of the Vampire has all 3 of those qualities . I very much recommend this movie to you and suggest that you see it on the big screen . But if you don't you gotta get the DVD . And just a word of trivia ? ' Yes Nicolas Cage is the producer ' . When I saw this in the cinema the rest of the audience said , one by one , ' Hey Nicolas Cage ' when his credit appeared . It was like a never-ending echo .
A ton of fun , but very , very short	Having enjoyed Sonic Advance I was eager to get my hands on Sonic Rush . With brilliant graphics and the fastest gameplay yet in a Sonic game it sure does make for a great video-game experience . But there's just not enough of it and not much is made of the Nintendo DS potential outside of some slight touch-screen interaction and tall graphics . As always the levels range from tropical islands to mechanical metropolis with all the usual powers ups , springs and speed barriers . They are brilliantly designed and contain so many loop-the-loops and massive jumps that you'll go cock-eyed . The sheer speed that you can fire through the levels is amazing . The music top-notch too and there are loads of cool tunes . You can play as Sonic , with his usual abilities , or as Blaze the Cat , who has her own mission opposite Sonic . Obviously this involves defeating Doctor Eggman , but you now have a ' rush ' ability which acts as a booster to make Sonic or Blaze go even faster . My major complaint is with the Special Stages . They are the same as the were in Sonic the Hedgehog 2 , involving the 3D tunnels . And they are impossible . The one that I actually managed to enter requires 160 rings to catch the Chaos Emerald . Not only do I not think there were even 160 IN the whole stage but it's impossible to keep a hold of them as there are so many dangerous obstacles and traps . Plus , you control Sonic with the stylus pen in this stage and it's not got such a great response . And the last boss is impossible also . There is no way to defeat Doctor Eggman and the controls frequently contradict each other , it's all down to bad programming . The game sure has a few bugs ( nothing major ) that should have been sorted out . So apart from the special stage and the final boss , the game is just too damn easy and has nothing to bring you back for more . Yes , I had loads of fun playing it but it would be only worth the money if it were longer and had more to it . Graphics Sound Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
This is a COMEDY !	When I first saw this in the cinema in April 2000 I hated it . But I watched it with the wrong attitude . I was judging American Psycho as a horror film . Which it certainly is NOT . It's about ( as the film constantly says ) a complete [ loser ] . He's no friends . Unable to communicate on any level with anyone of his superficial , yuppie colleagues ( some of which don't even know his name ) , takes far , far too much pride in his appearance and has way , way to much love for his material possessions . He is Patrick Bateman . And fitting in / looking normal / being just like everyone else is the toughest thing in his life . But murder , misogyny , degradation and mutilation is what he secretly longs for . It's really only Huey Lewis and the News that prevents him from doing so . American Psycho is full scenes that are tough to watch . You'll be watching them through the gaps between your fingers . How can you not squirm as Patrick Bateman looks in the mirror smiling , flexing his muscles , while having sex with a call girl ? Or taking the whole business card thing WAY too seriously ? Other times the film is just laugh out loud hilarious . Bateman tells Willem Dafoe's detective he would love to help him with his case but he has a lunch meeting with Cliff Huxtable . Come on ! Cliff Huxtable ? ? ? Or how about the scene in the Men's Room when Patrick attempts to strangle the gay guy ? Don't watch this as a horror film . It's a comic , drama-tragedy . Patrick Bateman is a disaster waiting to happen . And his inability to stay connected to the world around him is a wicked delight . Though his world of slick , cocaine-snorting , superficial , Wall Street yuppies of 80s credibility is not really the thing anyone would want to be connected to . Maybe he's better off as a psycho with no pals . The DVD has a great looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture and a loud , well produced Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack . The extras ( apart from the deleted scenes ) , unfortunately , are pathetic . e movie with a scene of Bateman discussing his morning facial cream routine ) that the point of the satire is nearly lost : Without the fickle trends of society , Bateman is an empty shell . Save his greed and bloodlust , he is a robot . Harron tones down the violence to a lesser degree - although it is no less gruesome ; the scene where Bateman , nude and bloody , chases a hooker with a chainsaw is an edge-of-the-seater - and emphasizes the story's taking place in the " Me Decade " with appropriate song and fashion that add to one's enjoyment of the film . Despite a lame " Is Patrick really nutso ? " twist that hurts the movie , the point is not lost here , and Harron has a solid sophomore hit on her hands . Bale shines as Bateman , making us thank God the powers that be did not go with Leonardo DiCaprio as they at one point hoped to . Whether he's stiff , menacing , dryly sarcastic , tortured or over the edge psychotic , Bale is mesmerizing . If there's any justice in the world , Patrick Bateman will be a career maker . Too bad the supporting actors don't fare as well . With the exception of Matt Ross , who steals his scenes as a homosexual co-worker of Bateman's in a memorable bathroom confrontation , all other actors are window dressing . Witherspoon's role is written so blandly anybody could have played it , while Sevigny is incredible annoying as her characer moons over Patrick . Willem Dafoe is amiable enough as a detective investigating one of Bateman's crimes , but . . . this is Bale's movie . It's a wild ride that gets a little hazy in parts , but is certainly enjoyable in most places .
A bit repetitive .	The cheapness of this cartoon is evident from the beginning . Much of the animation is clearly recycled . Some of Bugs Bunny's jokes fall flat too but there's still plenty of zany , wackiness surrounding him to make up for it . The story is this . Bug's baseball team ( made up of very old men ) is losing to a bunch of brutish , thug-types . He makes them a bet he can beat them all on his own . And , as usual , it's Bugs ' wits and brain against the stupid , easily manipulated opponents . This is also an earlier cartoon too . So Bugs ' personality is not as honed and developed as later outings and the design of the character is a bit off . Still funny with lots of laughs tho .
One of the better Mickey shorts	In this short , Mickey is performing magic tricks on stage while Goofy does all the behind the scenes work , even though all of Mickey's tricks seem to be for real . But Donald , as usual , isn't convinced and causes a fuss with his loud sarcasm and shouting . Mickey quickly silences him by using his magic . Donald becomes part of the act and is humiliated in various ways . It's actually quite imaginative and much better than the usual Mickey cartoons . If only Mickey ( who only has one line here ) consistently kept to this high standard . He really needs Donald to make him funnier than he is and it's pretty obvious in this cartoon that the laughs come from angry Duck .
Very summery game .	SMS is definitely a gorgeous game to look at and a perfect game to get you in a summertime mood . The perfect blue skies , glorious sunshine and beautiful water effects make you just want to pass through the screen and into the Isle of Delfino in the game itself . Mario vacations in this sunny resort only to find it's covered in pollution when he arrives . So now it's up to him to clean it up across the various levels and worlds . It's one of those games that you can just keep on playing over the years and even put aside for a while before going back to it . It doesn't really have the same charm in the winter months however . The music , the graphics , the humor are all cute and colorful . It makes for perfect escapism . However , the designers have simply tried to cram in too many controls on the Gamecube pad and , as a result , it's a very hard game to control . Many levels and missions require precision manoeuvring and can often take several minutes of painstaking balance and ascension only for it all to be undone , as Mario plummets several hundred feet , by a tiny little flaw in your button-bashing . It will seriously drive you C-R-A-Z-Y . Had it not been for this , I would probably have stuck with SMS to the end , but I had to just be done with it once and for all , otherwise I would have chucked my Gamecube at the wall . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay C Lasting Appeal
Cute DVD for Xmas	This 40-minute TV special tells the story of Rerun , Linus and Lucy's very cute younger brother ( I loved the scenes with him stuck on the back of his mother's bicycle ) . As the smallest child he feels left out of playing around with the other kids and wishes for a dog for Xmas . He starts a great friendship with Snoopy but Charlie Brown is reluctant to let him go . Snoopy's brothers also visit and cause much calamity . It's all harmless fun , if not completely indisposable . Though the DVD is where the real worth comes in . Included is a decent documentary on the original Charlie Brown Christmas , with interviews with cast members and the filmmakers . Also included is Charlie Brown's Christmas Tales , a series of Xmas sketches featuring different Peanuts characters , lasting about 5 minutes each . Some very kiddie trailers are on there also . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 full frame , as drawn , with Dolby 2 . 0 sound .
Cats and Dogs	For anyone who foolishly believes that canines and felines hate each other then perhaps this cartoon will sway your mind . Never before have a kitty and doggy gotten on so well . It marks the first appearance of Pussyfoot and the curiously named Marc Anthony , a massive bulldog who goes through hell to protect cute little cat who constantly , walks into danger unawares . I find the idea of a dog having a pet of his own utterly charming and funny . The animation and backgrounds echo Tom and Jerry rather than Looney Tunes , but for 2 lesser characters Pussyfoot and Marc Anthony make for a great twosome .
Why can't men be more like Animals ?	A bit more like Looney Tunes than usual for old Pinky here . But that's to be expected when most of the Pink Panther cartoons are from Freleng and Depatie . This time round a Texan Big Game hunter is rounding up animals for his ' ark ' so he can just go about shooting fish in a barrel . Kind of takes the sport out of it but . . . hey ho . The last on his list is a Pink Panther and he goes after our favorite cat like Wile E . Coyote would go after the Roadrunner . Of course Pinky outsmarts him at every turn , even causes him to go plummeting from cliffs Coyote style . And in the end , of course , he wins and talks for one of those very few times . I love the Pink Panther .
Don't call these guys .	A hotel is burning and Mickey's Fire Brigade is answering the distress call . But Mickey , Goofy and Donald are not so great when it comes to fighting fire . In fact , everything that can go wrong between their ramshackle fire truck and worthless tactics does . Donald's fight with the fire gets a bit too personal , Mickey cannot keep the wild hose under control and Goofy does a bit of peeping on a cow taking a bath ( cows are always naked anyway ) who doesn't realize the hotel is on fire . And why does she have horns if she is indeed a SHE ? ? ? Most bizarre , of all their hijinks , is the scenes in which Goofy chucks everything he can get his paws on out the window , only to be incinerated in the fire truck furnace . What ? ? ? This I totally do not understand . Was this an attempt at irony ? It comes of as just plain confusing . A funny and imaginative cartoon nonetheless .
No new cats !	Jerry is tormenting Mammy-Two-Shoes ( dubbed to sound less ' offensive ' in the version that I watched and I suspect they have rewritten some of her dialogue too ) but Tom is too slow and too lazy to catch him . Annoyed with this , she introduces a new orange cat called Lightning and kicks Tom out of the house , along with Jerry , for good . But Lightning turns out to be a glutton and T & J reckon it's time they teamed up and hatch a plan to give Lightning what he deserves ( IE a painful walloping and framing him ) . Some good gags and visual humor along with a more original plot make this a better than average T & J short .
Woof !	Tom and Jerry are doing their usual chasing-around-the-house / cat tail in a mousetrap antics when Tom slams right into the sleeping big bulldog later to be known as Spike . Angery at being woken from his peaceful sleep , he chases after the cat and mouse , forcing them to team up to defeat him . Jerry sets the trap while Tom uses himself as bait , soon enough the house is trashed and Spike is thrown out . Really simple stuff with only some slight invention . Mammy-Two-Shoes makes an appearance , but chances are you'll see the PC version in which she is unnatually re-dubbed to sound less ' racist ' . Whatever !
Who ya gonna call	Almost 55 years before Bill Murray and Co . cleaned up New York there was a different trio of ' fearless ' spook-fighters . They were Mickey , Donald and Goofy . Though none of their equipment is high-tech ( they carry nets and , bizarrely , axes ) they make up for it with phony bravery . A quartet of ghosts in a spooky old mansion phone them up and get them over to scare them and play tricks . So , you can pretty much guess that the rest of the cartoon will be made up of related hijinks . Though this time , it's slightly more imaginative than usual . Nice animation and spooky atmosphere too .
Enjoy the fireworks .	The ' old-fashioned ' disaster movie scenario enjoyed a brief resurgence in the latter half of the 90s . After the success of Twister and ID4 , films like Hard Rain , Titanic , Armageddon and Deep Impact followed in its wake . Like the two competing asteroid movies , Dante's Peak was in competition with the imaginatively named Volcano as THE Lava flow of 1997 . Which one is better ? Well , comparing the two is like comparing an atomic blast to a popping pimple . Pierce Brosnan is Harry Dalton , a Vulcanologist ( or James Bond in disguise if you want ) who predicts a major eruption in the quaint Pacific-Northwestern town of Dante's Peak . No one wants to listen to him since the town has just been named the 2nd most desirable place to live in America and is in the early stages of a thriving economy . It's the politics from Jaws all over again . Despite being shouted down by his superiors , Harry sticks around to keep his eye on the imposing mountain and woo Mayor Wando ( Linda Hamilton ) , who is the only one who believes the 4000-year dormant volcano might blow its top . If you've seen one disaster movie , you've seen ' em all in terms of character importance . Yes , it's bloody obvious who is going to die , some of these people might as well have a death clock counting down stuck on their foreheads . And the panicking idiot mobs don't deserve anything less firey . When will nameless extras learn that following the crowd isn't the best way ? I guess this is the weakest part of Dante's Peak , it never really distances itself from that single , eternal cliché of disaster films . But the film is really nothing but a showcase for special effects and it does them surprisingly well . Made before the extreme popularity of CGI , Dante's Peak has a lot of real-life destruction , in-camera effects and stunt-work . Yes , there is a fair bit of CGI and for a 10-year-old film they still hold up really well . All Volano ( Zzzz . . . ) had to offer was a very , very slight lava flow and an unintentionally hilarious scene with a melting man but with Dante's Peak we get earthquakes , boiled skinny dippers , lakes of acid , ash blizzards that create a unique atmosphere , thunder and lightning , red hot boulders raining down from the sky , mudslides , lava ( of course ) , a massive pyroclastic cloud and lots of deep , deep bass sound effects . It's not a life-changing film by any means , but as disaster movies go it's one of the best , has an occasionally spooky score and entertains really well despite Brosnan taking it all so seriously . I would have given it a higher rating if they killed the dog ( more original ) and deleted the annoying Grant Heslov's utterly pointless character .
Seventy grand , I want it back .	Before studio execs and Mel Gibson got all uppity with Brian Helgeland , Payback was a darker , meaner film . But after an apparently poor test screening in 1997 ( honestly , what IS the point of these ? ) they put Payback on hold for over a year so Mel could do Lethal Weapon 4 before going back for some re-shoots , with a new director , to make the film happier . So they approved a script of a dark , moody revenge thriller , green-lighted it for production and changed their minds to make it lighter because a ragtag audience didn't understand / like it ? Man , Hollywood is one weird town . The resulting film , which was eventually released in 1999 , seemed a bit tacked together . There were scenes that just seemed out of place and irregular . It was obvious that any scene actually shot back in 1997 was shot on location and any scene shot for the 1999 cut was just shot in the generic ' street set ' on the Warner back-lot . Despite all of this , Payback was still a fun film that failed to go all the way with it's concept . The new DC is a superior version , no doubt and is about 33 % different . There are new scenes and odds and ends through out the running time and the last act is completely different . Kris Kristoffersen is gone and replaced by Sally Kellerman ( voice only , Bronson is never seen ) . James Coburn and John Glover also have smaller roles . The narration from Porter is gone as well as the blue tint to most of the film . Now most scenes are just lit as normal without any post-production filtering . There is also a new musical score . The jazzy feel to the opening scenes is still there but through-out the rest of the film the score is more atmospheric and understated . Both are as good as each and fit the differing tones , so there's no better of the two . It does end a bit abruptly and without any truly satisfying conclusion . I guess this is what annoyed test audiences . But a disgruntled audience should not be a decision-making committee when it comes to making movies .
Highly addictive , but not enough of it .	It doesn't make much use of the touch-screen feature of the DS but the dual-screen fits perfect for the tall nature of a pinball table ( though there is annoying unseen space between them ) . I've never played any of the other Metroid games but I do know that the main character can turn into a ball . You play that ball in this game ( or just control the flippers that move it ) and the tables are brilliantly done and are full of wild features . However , there are only 2 main tables , with a couple of extra bonus tables . Which is a bit of a let down since they could have crammed loads of crazy environments on there but we only get 2 . Yes the game is very , very addictive but since it's so short it will only have a limited lifespan . Pick it up cheap . Graphics Sound B Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
Surely that should be Autograph Duck	Donald sneaks into a movie studio to get autographs from all his favorite stars in a big book . At first the stereotypical Irish cop chucks him out but Donald outwits him and seeks signatures from the likes of Mickey Rooney ( who is still alive ) , Greta Garbo , Shirely Temple ( who is also still alive ) and others . But as soon as all the big stars in the studio find out Donald is in the midst they all hound him and he drowns in their own autographs books . A simple idea and a weak plot and it's got those freaky-looking caricatures of real people again but I did find this funnier than usual .
Good luck finding a teacher like this in real life !	I can't help feel bit jealous when ever I see Private Schools in movies . My high school was unfortunately full of teachers who didn't give half a goddamn about you . And it was / is one of the most respected ( read pretentious ) in the country . I never learned one single thing that was actually of use to me and I believe going to such a place is mostly responsible for turning me into the faithless cynic that I am now . In this movie Kevin Kline ( a seriously underused actor ) plays a history teacher who is dedicated to making sure his students grow up to be fine and morally sound , upstanding people . They all get along until Sedgewick Bell ( Emile Hirsh ) the hell-raising son of an arrogant Governor arrives in class . His grades are terrible but Mr . Hundert sees intelligence in the boy and struggles to push him in the right direction at the expense of the rest of the class who actually want and care for education . Over the years he comes to regret his mistakes but sees a chance to put things right again with a reunion of all his former students organised by Sedgewick who appears to want to put things right . There are loads of Student / Teacher movies out there but what separates The Emperor's Club from the likes of Dead Poet's Society and Mr . Holland's Opus is that Mr . Hundert's teaching is never in doubt . But he is flawed . Kevin Kline is so good in the role that for most of the film I thought I was watching a real person and not a character . And doesn't he sound like Niles from Frasier ? I do wish I went to somewhere like St . Benedicts or at least had a teacher like Mr . Hundert . It seems that teachers who really care only exist in the movies As are students who are willing to learn . Or perhaps it's just my bad non-education that skews my opinion . Still , I know good movies when I see one and The Emperor's Club get's my recommendation if you're sick of Hollywood , massive budgets , overblown SFX and intrusive marketing and just want a good character drama .
Not really THAT confusing	I first saw Mission : Impossible when I was 15 and I didn't have a Scooby what the hell was going on . And I considered myself to be smarter than the average bear . In retrospect , it's not that muddled . In comparison to the very-dumbed down sequel it stands out as a better example of film-making made by a director who doesn't underestimate the audience . Brian De Palma is known to be a wildly inconsistent filmmaker . From the over-rated Carrie , to the under-rated Snake Eyes , the classic Untouchables and the downright hideous Mission to Mars and Scarface , he's been through just about everything . But Mission : Impossible was his first true mega-hit . Movies from TV shows are a dime a dozen these days and are rarely taken seriously , I mean look at trash like S . W . A . T . or Dukes of Hazard , but M : I is actually supposed to be a continuation of the show , rather than a spin-off . Tom Cruise is Ethan Hunt ( no , not cockney rhyming slang ) an IMF agent who's entire team is killed in a phony sting operation in Prague . Accused of being a traitor he legs it before they can nab him and assembles a team of rogue operatives to find out who the REAL traitor is . Many double-crosses and double-double crosses ensue . For those who cannot follow the plot there are some really good set-pieces with enough tension and excitement to carry the whole movie . You'll know by now the dangling scene in the top-secret room but the best scene in the movie is the high-speed train rocketing through the English countryside . While other directors might use this as a chance to show off , De Palma keeps it as realistic as possible which makes it infinitely more cooler . Parts of the movie may seem a bit dated now and it's weird seeing Tom Cruise look like a little boy even though he was already 33 . He even sounds different . And what kind of supervillian uses floppy discs ? They could have tried something a bit more high-tech there . The M : I franchise could be a helluva lot better , I suppose . The second film was terrible and the third merely average . But they're still better than the last few Bond outings , though it ain't quite up to the rugged quality of the Jason Bourne movies . At least it got off to a good start . But can the world tolerate Cruise long enough to ever get a fourth made ?
Pretty good , but I wish it was longer .	Top quality animation and a sense of humour make this sequel / add-on a formidable animated movie in its own right . The running time of 74 minutes is a bit of a let-down . I would have liked to have seen more pieces and more imagination . And be warned , The Sorcerer's Apprentice remains . As this was the original's ONLY real selling point they decided to stick it back in there , so you're really only get just over an hours worth of new footage . Which feels like a bit of a rip-off . But my favorite segment is the one with Donald Duck , in fact they were all cool , especially the one with the volcano . The music matches the story perfectly and it has some truly beautiful animation . Far superior to those ugly CGI crap we get these days . And the TV show style introductions were more watchable than the dubbed Deems Taylor segments in the original . This was the first animated movie to be made for IMAX screens and the digital picture is amazing . See this preferably on an IMAX screen or on DVD . Watching it on VHS would only insult the brilliant animation . It's sad that Disney has abandoned traditional hand-drawn animation for theatrical projects . It's what the studio was built on after all . But Disney is shadow of its former self , we all know that . Just as good as the original Fantasia , but loses points for not being longer and more ambitious .
Cleanliness is next to godliness	Mammy-Two-Shoes ( not dubbed by the PC-brigade in the version I saw ) has just finished cleaning the whole house when Tom bursts in the door , covered in muck , chasing Jerry . She freaks and tells him to keep the house spic and span until she gets back from the store . This he has no problem doing , but Jerry , for no other reason than to be mean , decides to wreck the place so Tom works himself to death picking it up after him . There are some good gags but I'm surprised no one complained at the final bit where Tom , covered in coal dust ( now looking like a black cat ) pretends to be some other cat to Mammy-Two-Shoes and acts like a retarded , cotton-picking 19th century slave . I don't find it offensive , he's probably just mimicking Jim from Huckleberry Finn but it's this kind of thing that cartoons got away with back in the day and something you'll never see in the airbrushed , static , PC crap of today . No one is credited for Tom's voice or Mammy-Two-Shoes ' .
Who ?	Mac and Tosh ? The Goofy Gophers ? Never heard of them . And I bet Walt Disney cried plagiarism the day this came out . And I don't blame him if he did as they are a total rip-off of Chip and Dale . They are kinda funny funny though . Mac and Tosh both have English accents and are very well spoken . When lumberjacks show up in their forest and cut their home down they go off to the lumber mill to get it back . Only it's made into furniture ( you can't help but notice the tiniest environmental subtext here ) and they plan to steal it back , nonetheless , from the delivery drivers ( one of whom sounds EXACTLY like Bugs ) . They are cute but not strong enough to really last as long as the better known Looney Tunes . And perhaps Disney put an injunction on Warner preventing such blatant plagiarism . Is this why we never saw Mac and Tosh again ?
Merry Christmas Ya Filthy Animal !	In the Eighties , John Hughes churned out a handful of movies and scored many , many hits . Quite rightly , as most of them were seriously funny - I'm DEFINITELY not referring to Curly Sue , so relax ! In one particular scene from Uncle Buck , Macaulay Culkin interrogates a babysitter through the letterbox to make sure she's not a baddie . This inspired Hughes to write a whole new movie . Who would have known that this and its sequel would go on to become two of the biggest hits of all time ? Both Hughes and Chris Columbus seem to prefer setting their movies during the holiday season ( Gremlins , Planes , Trains & Automobiles , Christmas Vacation ) and manage to pull them off without too much sentiment , or sickening amounts of gooey love . There are two reasons why Home Alone was such a big success . The first is that it's about a kid who outsmarts grown-ups , something that happens every day , only there's a worldwide conspiracy of silence . This movie yells it out loud and clear . The second is John Williams's magical score , which elevates the movie way above slapstick family fare to something more serious and regarded . It was nominated for an Academy Award , along with the Christmas carol Somewhere In My Memory , but lost to John Barry's Dances with Wolves . Damn ! In a mad rush to the airport one morning , the MacCallister family forget one little thing . . . Kevin ( Culkin ) . He is an eight-year-old kid who wants nothing better than a peaceful Christmas and some time to himself . It's hard for him to get this when living in a house with seven other people ( the exact same house from Planes , Trains And Automobiles , don't you know0 . With the rest of the MacCallisters in Paris , Kevin runs wild doing whatever he wants , eating whatever he wants and watching whatever TV show he wants . But there's one major problem . The Wet Bandits , Harry ( Joe Pesci ) and Marv ( Daniel Stern ) , are on the prowl and have knocked off every other house in Kevin's street . His is next . And seeing that he's man-of-the-house now , he HAS to defend it . Using whatever tools are at his disposal ( rusty nails , blow torches , Micro Machines ) he sets up a labyrinth of booby traps , so that the Wets can't break in . Their idiot-proof determination proves to be their downfall , as they are tortured and torn-up upon entering Kevin's domain . Although this is not the only point of the film , there is an important message that family is what really matters to a child , or to anyone , and having them home for the holidays is better than wandering a huge house all by yourself . There are some movies that work best at Christmas and this is one of them . I'm not saying that in a couple of decades it will be the new It's A Wonderful Life , but it will be remembered fondly at the very least . Don't be a Scrooge . It's Christmastime . Go rush to check out Home Alone .
I never knew corn was so . . . important	This animated short was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short Subject . Quite right as I found it very informative . It details the history of corn . Yes , a strange subject indeed , but apparently without the Native American ' invention ' of corn on the cob , we'd have precious little of the products and medicines we'd have today . Produced in co-operation with the Canadian film board I believe this was made to educate the masses on corn ( for some reason ) . Why the Canadian government felt the need to do this back in 1942 is anyone's guess but it's still a neat little documentary . You'll find it in the Disney Treasures : On the Front Lines DVD set .
Spare some change ?	A homeless Sylvester bullies a small orange cat and kicks him out of his garbage can territory . But the night grows colder and Sylvester knocks on the door of a random house for sanctuary . Elmer Fudd answers and takes him in . But seconds later the orange kitty is back and Elmer takes him in too . He'd like to keep them both but can only keep one . After attempts at out-cutting each other fail the cats finally decide to frame each other as noise pets as Elmer tries to sleep . It's fun to watch Sylvester's plans back fire on him and desperately trying to stop the kitty's evil ways . I love Sylvester . Who goes in the end ? Well you'll have to watch it to find out .
One of the better of the recent Scoobys	I wasn't sure if taking the gang out of their usual locale of haunted mansions and creepy amusement parks and sending them to Australia was a good idea . While it is still a cool movie it would have worked just as well in Death Valley than in the Outback . The villain this time is a Vampire called Yahoo-Yahweh , a bit of stupid name . It never sounds right when the characters say it . That minor quibble aside it's another solid entry in the recent Scooby Made For TV feature-length mysteries . Frank Welker ( who's birthday it is today , coincidentally ) is back as Fred and Scooby and Kasey Kasem is back as Shaggy ( tho Scott Innes was perfect in the previous instalments and it puzzles why he didn't do Scooby's voice in the movie ) . It feels like a slickly animated version of the original show . Especially considering how Warner have decked the characters in their original clothes after fans objected to the modern clothes in the previous efforts . I have no opinion on this matter . It was cool to see the Hex Girls return and the music this time has a slightly hipper , more techno feel and lacks the orchestral fantasy of Louis Febre's scores for Alien Invaders and Cyber Chase . It's a shame there's no soundtrack CD for this one . I'd definitely buy it . The extras consist of a childish game and a commentary by Shaggy , Scooby and Fred . Which should be fun . The DVD is presented in bright and colorful 1 . 33 : 1 full frame ( as drawn ) with an above average Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack .
Pluto Goes To Hell	This cartoon sees Pluto dream of a cat-controlled hell . After chasing a cute little kitten about the house and throwing mud everywhere , Mickey tells Pluto off and gives him some kind of Puritan Christian warning of hell and damnation . Once fallen asleep in front of the fire , Pluto's vision of cat-run hell and all the cats he's ever tormented coming back for vengeance quickly teaches him the error of his ways and he wakes up with a new-found love for felines . Kind of cute if you can get around the not-so-subtle Christian values message .
Loads of potential , mostly squandered	Batman : Gotham Knight is a lot like The Animatrix in that it bridges two movies with colorful and varied animation and innovative stories . Or at least that's what it should have been . While The Animatrix was fresh and exciting and superior to the live-action films Batman : Gotham Knight just seems to plod around familiar territory without ever getting too deep . Averaging at about 11 minutes each the stories are just too short to really make an impression and a couple of them end abruptly much to the annoyance of the viewer . Kevin Conroy returns as the voice of Batman ( this will come as a great relief to fans who have had to put up with Rino Romano's voice in the new , inferior series ) but there's none of the wild invention seen in the 90s TV series or any of the subsequent feature-length movies . Each story seems to have one idea and sticks with it to the bitter end whether it works or not . It would have been better if they connected the stories and built towards a better end . As a movie it fails . As a sequence of quick adventures leading up to The Dark Knight it kinda works . The animation is pretty and I'd like to see more but give us more depth next time , Warner .
Pretty good , but needs more Jenna !	The movie starts of with Jenna Brooks and Katana , both wearing very sexy and revealing outfits , skating around a neighborhood . They decide to go to a nearby garage for something to do . And when they get there , well . . . there's a big gangbang . Both Jenna and Katana are incredibly hot and both get some serious banging from the guys ( about 10 in total ) . Katana gets the most attention and does anal and DP about a zillion times . Jenna ( who is prettier ) is left in the background quite a lot and only does regular sex , which is annoying . And despite the massive amount of penetrations Katana gets , there's a tiny bit of brief . . . uncleanliness . If you know what I mean . It ends with copious cumshots , the last one coming at such a speed that Jenna actually jumps with fright .
Heartwarming / Heartbreaking	And oh so cute ! Emporer Penguins achieve many miracles every year in their quest for reproduction . How exactly they know how to do all this is incredible . First they all leap out of the ocean and begin to march , single file , for over 70 miles , to their preferred breeding ground . They look really cute as they do this . Then , when they are at their breeding ground , they look for a partner . There are loads more boys than girls , so the competition is stiff . But , eventually , they find a partner and the magic happens . Do penguins fall in love ? It seems they do and they all have strange rituals of hugging and talking gibberish . I have no doubts that they are actually talking to each other . As winter comes , they all huddle together in a group . Eggs are laid and passed onto the male as the female go off to search for food . Some eggs are misplaced and the unhatched baby penguin dies . It's really sad . As the girls are away , the boys have to suffer intense blizzards and snow storms . Some of the older ones die , or as Morgan Freeman says , simply go to sleep . A close-up of a penguin closing his eyes for the final time is truly a deeply affecting moment . Since this is the part where it's the males fighting for themselves , this is probably the reason there are less of them . When the girls return , the eggs hatch and adorable little babies poke their heads out and see the world for the first time . But since they are so small , they need to stay sheltered . The males are still sheltering and when the female wants it back they have to move very quickly since the fragile little penguin cannot be out of warmth for more than a few moments . Some die . And a scene where a mother pokes at her dead chick is utterly heartbreaking . However , the majority survives . As they have done for thousands of years . And as summer arrives they grown-ups depart , leaving the babies on their own . And when one of the plucks up enough courage to dive in the ocean , the rest follow . And soon , they'll be back to take part in the same ritual , the same survival quest . It's a purity and innocence that humans have long , long , LONG lost . Every creature on earth exists simply to multiply and be the dominant species . But surely Emperor Penguins do it in the toughest of conditions . Nature may be cruel , but it's pure . You might even end up a little jealous and insist on living as a hermit or wildman in a vain attempt at getting back to nature . But , inevitable , you'll probably miss your playstation and porn too much . Morgan Freeman's narration is brilliant . But since he has the second coolest voice in the world ( after Lance Henrikson ) I could probably listen to him for hours even if he was just reading the dictionary . The score by Alex Wurman is also great and when coupled with the beautiful cinematography it makes for huge escapism . It reminds me a lot of the Landscape Channel , which I used to watch as a kid . I totally recommend the film . And it's cool that for once a family film can be a documentary and NOT some total crap with Eddie Murphy or Steve Martin selling themselves out .
Lighthearted , silly fun	I really wasn't expecting much from a third in the series even tho Tremors 2 added so much more imagination . So I was pleasantly surprised when this turned out to be so much fun . It begins with a rather cool opening scene in which Burt Gummer ( still in Mexico ) takes out zillions of Shriekers with a massive machine-gun tank thing . After returning home to Perfection Burt must deal with new graboids , new shriekers and another metamorphosis . . . The shriekers turn into Ass-Blasters , flying creatures with rocket propelled farts . As the town ( and the returning , surviving cast from the first film ) is besieged by all forms of these animals , Burt and his pals must figure out increasing desperate ways to destroy them . There's loads of energy and self-referential humor and the locations have a more dark / sophisticated look to them than in the previous 2 films . A light-hearted tone is still in check tho . There's even one teriffic scene in which Burt is swallowed by a Graboid and taken halfway across the desert . I paniced , I honestly thot we'd lost him . Turns out he's okay in the end . Fred Ward is definitely missed tho his abscence is explained ( Earl and Grady went to make a Graboid amusement park ) but Michael Gross is simply irreplaceable as the eccentric and paranoid Burt Gummer . And Ariana Richards is so much more cuter now that she's grown up . Tremors 3 is the best presented Tremors movie on DVD . The 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture looks great and the Dolby 5 . 1 is reasonably lively with lots of bass during the tunnelling scenes . A fair amount of extras come along too .
Pulp Fiction at its most authentic .	I'm not so familiar with Sam Peckinpah's career as I have only seen this and The Osterman Weekend ( which I hated ) but you can tell from his style that he has certainly influenced a lot of modern day directors . The perfect widescreen photography , quick editing ( but not a blur , I should add ) and dramatic use of slow-motion give the action in The Getaway an authentic edge . And all done on a low-budget too . Adapted from a Jim Thompson novel by Walter Hill ( his macho characteristics are all in there ) , the story has newly-freed jailbird Carter McCoy forced into a bank robbery by crime boss Jack Benyon . He's also forced to work with rank amateur Frank and psychotic renegade Rudy . You can tell that this dost not bode well . Rudy goes haywire , killing everyone in sight but is soon put out of action by McCoy , who then legs it across country with his cheating wife ( the lovely Ali McGraw ) and a bag full of simoleons . Down , but not out , Rudy follows him , as well as several associates of the recently deceased Jack Benyon , not to mention loads of cops . The film is basically one action scene after the other but it doesn't pretend to be anything other than tough-guy entertainment . I find it bizarre that this film is rated PG in America and the exact same version is rated 18 in the UK . But the blood effects in the film are pretty damn fake so it does take it out of reality a little bit . Plus there are no ( audible ) F-words and the nudity is minimum and quick . I saw the 1994 remake first and while it's passable it's not really as rustic and straight-forward as this . It was quite a pointless film and virtually identical , shot-for-shot . Everything that The Getaway has to offer is done best in this one . Unpretenious fun indeed .
Tee hee	Stan and Ollie are part of a Freemason's lodge and take an oath to go to their annual convention in Chicago . No one has ever broken this oath in the zillion year history of the Sons of the Desert Lodge so they'd better now screw up . Only Stan and Ollie are both dominated by their wives who won't allow them to do anything with-out strict approval first . So they concoct a plan that involves pretending to go to Hawaii for a relaxing cruise but really going off to the windy city . Too bad the ship sinks on the way their and they have fake being rescued ( much quicker than everyone else ) when they come back from the convention . Loads of hectic hiding and digging out of deep trouble follow . Much funnier than I've made it sound . Honest !
Deadpan cynicism	I totally loved this show . It's full of crazy characters ( Daria's dad in particular ) and hilarious stereotypes ( who sadly reoccur with frightening frequency in real life ) . Plus it's the second show to be spun-off from Beavis and Butthead ( King of the Hill being the first ) . It's weird to think of them all existing in the same world . What separates Daria from other popular animation such as The Simpson's or Family Guy is the character interaction . In some places Daria almost feels like a drama , giving it a touch more integrity . She's a tough girl to love . Daria basically has no faith in anything but her own judgment . It's makes a little bit hard to get close to her but she is a proud outsider in a mad world . This DVD features the last ( extended ) episode of Daria making it to college and what happens once her High School life is over . There are two bonus episodes ( Boxing Daria and Lucky Strike ) included . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 as drawn , the colors are bright and clear as is the Dolby 2 . 0 soundtrack .
Mindless fun	Take away the beginning and end credits and what you are left with is a 75-minute long movie that you'll never watch more than once if you buy the DVD ( like me ) but will still have a fun time watching . Steve Miner returns to the tranquil lakeside settings he captured so well in the Friday the 13th movies and gives us more horror hokum . What I liked about Lake Placid is that it is kind of light-hearted and doesn't try and make itself a full-blown horror by showing us guts and entrails . The movie is NOT serious and has many suspenseful scenes packed into it's VERY brief running time . The cast are delightful and the big nasty croc is actually quite sympathetic at the end . Buy this DVD and enjoy for what it is . . . a light , breezy comedy-thriller that nails the bullseye instead of aiming for higher ( and ultimately lesser ) results . Fox may well re-release this movie on DVD with an anamorphic picture and DTS sound . When they do that I suggest you buy . You will like . Trust me .
Who has custard pies anyway ?	Jerry wakes from a nightmare by a knock at the door only to discover he's been made a surrogate daddy to a baby mouse called Tuffy . The attached note claims that Tuffy loves milk and Jerry must find a way to get him some . Tom has a big bowl full of it , but they'd only be asking for trouble if they were to go steal . The chase begins and it is rather funny , if a bit generic . I did notice moment of weird editing in a certain scene , but later found out that the version I saw was censored by the PC Police for containing a scene where Jerry and Tuffy disguise themselves as African Americans . I would say ' black men ' but they ARE mouses . I do wish the overzealous censors would leave these harmless cartoons alone . This gripe aside , it was entertaining nonetheless . But the crappy custard pie jokes are beneath Tom and Jerry standards !
Mickey in Living Color	For the REAL first time . This short was made for the Academy Awards banquet back in 1932 , before politics and TV ratings ruined the prestigious awards AND the ' ceremony ' . Funny thing is , Mickey appears wearing green shorts instead of his usual red and Pluto is grey . The short itself is nothing more than a walking parade of all the particular Oscar Nominees that year , including Wallace Beery and Jackie Cooper , Lynn Fontanne and Alfred Lunt , Helen Hayes , Fredric March and Marie Dressler from Emma . I can see how this would appeal to those at the dinner and no one else but it's cool to be able to watch this for nostalgia purposes . I did review this before but the IMDb deleted my review for no reason , so lets keep our fingers crossed that they don't do it again eh .
Morbidly Obese Elmer	Ew ! Elmer Fudd's appearance in this short is quite disgusting and distracting . He's so fat with a horrible red nose that it's not nice to look at . One of those awful human-exaggerations that were thankfully infrequent in Looney Tunes cartoons . Here he shows up a Jellystone park for a few days camping . Bugs naturally does not want to have a fat man in his space so he proceeds to make Elmer's trip hell by playing all sorts of tricks on him . The humor is still funny and intelligent but the fact that Elmer is not the way we know ( and prefer ) him lessens the appeal of the short . Fortunately , this bloated version of him only ever appeared in 4 cartoons .
Sometimes , if you wanna go up , you have to go down .	It may not seem like anything particularly new these days , especially after the revival of disaster films in the late 90s . But in 1972 , The Poseidon Adventure was a somewhat groundbreaking film . But we're used to a group of survivors fighting against floods , earthquakes , storms , sinking vessels , zombies , volcanoes etc so you have to keep this in mind when watching it . Taken from Paul Gallico's novel ( who himself was one a ship that almost capsized ) the film features an all-star cast ( though young viewers will probably not recognize a single one of them save Gene Hackman or Leslie Nielsen ) with 7 Academy Awards between them . Surely , the bigger the stars have a bigger chance of survival ! Not so ! A capsized ship has many different ways of killing you as our unfortunate stars learn . . . the hard way . None of it is particularly graphic but there is a lot of tension and claustrophobia that makes it work . And the sets are quite impressive , if a little dated . When the Poseidon flips over it's already an ancient ship heading for the scrapyard . It would have been better if they destroyed something brand new and pretty , but I guess that means it wouldn't be so dirty and menacing when upside-down and full of salt-water . Followed by a sequel in 1979 and a new version in 2006 , TPA has become famous as the film that started the disaster genre and Irwin Allen as its creator . Truth be told , Allen only ever directed 2 ( and a bit ) of these movies and produced a couple more . I guess it's because TPA made such an impression that his name was linked to disaster movies he wasn't even involved with . Strange though to think that Gene Hackman hated making the movie and has apparently , to this day , refused to watch it . Much like Ed Harris in the Abyss . I guess some bald actors should just stay out of the water .
A rather scatter-shot approach to comedy but still very funny	This movie has a lot of fans , as expected . But there's a lot of people comparing it to the South Park Movie and I feel it's a fair comparison . Does it match up to Bigger , Longer and Uncut ? No . For the simple reason that the South Park movie had a plot , a story and a point to make . It was a movie that spoke loudly against censorship and promoted free speech . The Family Guy movie just uses the ' uncut ' slogan as a way of dragging in more vulgar humor . Originally conceived as a movie and then broken up into 3 individual episodes for airing on TV , the movie comes in 3 very noticeable parts . As separate episodes there's no real story at all and nothing to make you catch it again the next week because loads of little sub-plots that begin are never finished . There is a slight bias of gearing most of these stories in Stewie's direction but not so much that the movie should be named after him . Every half hour the it goes in a new direction and we never feel like we're getting anywhere with other than into another thing to make fun of . I can't really give a breakdown of the movie or the main characters involved as it just goes everywhere and all over the place . So much more could have become of a feature length Family Guy but Seth McFarlane and Co . do nothing with it and seize no opportunity other than swearing and racier humor . However it is very funny and there are some classic moments that will have you in suffocating fits of laughter , such as the wacky , waving , inflatable , arm-flailing tube man commercial , the Thundercats scene , Britney Spears getting burned alive , the scene that dumps on the shoddy morals and ethics of Blockbuster Video , the restaurant with Tom Tucker's private booth and . . . well pretty much everything is spot on . But this scatter-shot approach to comedy has all the sophistication of sticking a shotgun into a crowd and pulling the trigger . Sure you're going to hit everyone but it's not very clever . But Family Guy was never about subtlety or holding back on the mayhem . If anything it's the modern day equivalent of the Looney Tunes . Anyone who hoped for something big or king-sized from this 88-minute movie will be sorely disappointed at the low-aiming nature of it . It succeeds at exactly what it wants to do ; it makes us laugh hysterically . It could / should have been more . It all depends on what you expect from an animated TV show turned movie . It's still a billion times better than Pokemon : The Movie , though that's hardly a huge compliment .
Well remembered , but not a classic	At the time , Basic Instinct was considered shocking and new . In retrospect , in a world where much harder pornography is so commonplace , it's not got much sex appeal going for it . What I do like is the OTT game of cat and mouse between Stone and Douglas . Catherine Tramell is a writer of sleazy novels who lives out her pulp trash after she's written it . This would be fine if she wrote about saving the children or building churches but Tramell writes about sex , murder and betrayal . She's accused of murdering her Rock-star boyfriend by icepicking his head 86-times during a massive shagathon . She feels no guilt and no sadness and Detective Nick Curran regards her with utmost suspicion even though she passed a lie-detector test . Determined to find the truth among Catherine Tramell's web of pork-pies , Curran falls into her world of sin and seduction . Already a bad cop well on the way to cleaning up his act , all of his nasty habits come flooding back to him . The drinking , the snorting , the smoking . . . all because of a blonde . I would be impervious to this . In fact , Jeanne Triplehorn , who plays Curran's psychiatrist , is a billion times more sexy than Sharon Stone . Especially when she wears her glasses . But that's just my thing . One can accuse Basic Instinct of being contrived , overly-complicated and over-plotted but they'd be missing the point . I do feel that the irony of gutter-level fiction becoming real within gutter-level fiction would have been more appropriate and perhaps louder if Basic Instinct were a book , but as a movie it makes its point despite the high level tawdriness that most audiences are going think is all the film has to offer . Paul Verhoeven takes a Hitchcockian approach to the material as there are already a few connections to Vertigo . At one point in the film , Sharon Stone even dresses up in an outfit identical to Kim Novak ( hairstyle and all ) . You can't help but notice the sleaze sometimes though . Like Michael Douglas walking around a nightclub in a horrible V-neck sweater or the ' infamous ' leg-crossing scene with is only really notable for its unsubtlety . There are also some parts of the film which kind of date it badly . The production design and fashion is sooo early 90s . It's not the kind of story that oozes class but the outdated look kinda distracts . But the one amazing thing Basic Instinct has going for it is Jerry Goldsmith's wonderfully haunting score . Truly one of his best in the latter part of his career . Add it all up and Basic Instinct is wildly inconsistent in terms of quality but the sheer OTT nature of plot is enough to keep it afloat . And all these years later , when we have mostly become impervious to titillation , people still remember all the skanky publicity and the aroma of sleaze will never quite die away . See past all that and you'll find a clever thriller underneath .
A rehash , but an entertaining rehash	A sequel that comes traipsing in 14 years after the original can be accused of cashing-in . But you shouldn't judge a film until you've seen it right ? Yes , I know I am being a total hypocrite here . And if Basic Instinct 2 were to be accepted as a potentially good movie then perhaps they should have done it back in the late 90s when David Cronenberg was involved . Think of the movie he would have made ! But , Hollywood being that grinding , pounding machine that it is , postponed this film until 2006 . Verhoeven , Cronenberg , Jan De Bont and even John McTiernan all came and went . Lead actors such as Michael Douglas , Benjamin Bratt , Kurt Russell , Robert Downey Jr and Pierce Brosnan all passed . As the years passed , the film shifted from America to London and underdog director Michael Caton-Jones took charge . The lead went to David Morrissey , who I have never heard of and a supporting cast of recognisable British faces filled out the rest of the characters . But after all this . . . is all this teasing and sexual depravity still relevant ? A lot has changed in 14 years . We no longer need to walk away from newsagents ashamed for buying a jizz mag because so much better stuff is easy available for free on the internet . And I know where to find the best stuff ! Softcore porn is almost extinct and TV has become racier and more hedonistic . A film selling itself on sex would have to be more than just competent in the story and character department . If this is what matters to you I am afraid that Basic Instinct 2 is pretty much the exact same as the original with the same character arcs and developments . The new location and a fresh crop of characters to kill is really all it's got to offer . This time around Catherine Tramell is causing havoc in the streets of London and ' accidently ' causes the death of a famous football star by driving her car into the Thames . She's not sorry and shows no sympathy . Sent for a psych evaluation she meets Dr . Michael Glass who convinces the judge she has a ' risk addiction ' and will not stop pushing the limits to her madness until it costs her her own life . Glass must be a convincing man as Tramell is soon scot-free to do more evil deeds . And Glass , despite being as reserved and collected as a man can possibly be , like Nick Curran before him , falls head first into a wildly complex plot that bears more than just a shadow of a resemblance to the first . But this time we go a little bit deeper into the devious mind of Catherine Tramell . As a writer myself ( simultaneously really crap and unbelievably brilliant ) I really dig her style . She lies and deceives and manipulates people in diabolically genius ways for her own inspiration . She hides it from everyone but when you look in her eyes you can see the fire of a brilliantly evil mind blazing away . She's a great character and Stone pulls it off perfectly . She may be pushing 50 but she's still gorgeous and in my opinion she looks better in this than she did in the first . What Basic Instinct 2 lacks is a defining set-piece or action scene . It's most all talk and has none of the car chases or panic the original had . Michael Caton-Jones , who's career in film has been extremely unbalanced brings a slick edge to movie and makes it a bit darker than Verhoeven's approach . The world of Basic Instinct 2 is set in a London filled with shining glass and steel surfaces by day and dark shadows by night . Jerry Goldsmith was set to score the film but due to his untimely death the duties were passed onto John Murphy . But worry not , all of Goldsmith's wonderful themes return and although Murphy tries to make it his own by adding his own developments , almost every cue still belongs to Jerry . It's a great score and one of those that stays in your head forever . It's easy to criticize Basic Instinct 2 . It's easy to call it loads of names . But the first film suffered from this exact same problem , but the audiences of today are just far more savage and unforgiving . See past these problems and , like before , you'll discover a film that the rest of the world seems to be missing .
Needs an update .	This is a real awesome game with great playability and is well worth a look . My only problem is with the graphics . They are so out of date that they ruin the game big time . Everything is fine when you are n your bike going real fast but as soon as you fall off the bike and walk slowly you realize all the houses , trees and even cars are so badly animated and pixalized . 1960's video games look better than this . If there were any back then . Electronic Arts should definitely re-issue this game with better graphics , sound and more adventurous courses . When you crash on the Pacific Highway course and fall off the cliff . . . man . . . talk about bad programming .
A haunting film filled with beautiful imagery	I know this movie may not be to all tastes but I liked it very much . A lot . If I didn't know any better I'd say it still WAS the 70s thanks to the unique atmosphere the movie creates . Cinematography was brilliant . There are many scenes warmly lit with orange sunlight and it is very pleasant on the eye . This made Kirsten Dunst seem even more beautiful than she is . Which is very beautiful indeed . Another thing about this movie is that the teen males are mature and behave in a dignified and respectful way . Not like most other teen movie these days when all they do is party , joke about diarrhoea and make love to pastries . That quality in The Virgin Suicides was new and refreshing to me . I know this film doesn't have a wide release so see it whenever you get the chance and you'll end up wishing that more films were made this way .
A good Ben Dover DV	There is a good selection of women on this Ben Dover DVD and it's worth the money for sure . The first girl is Carla , who's husband has set up a surprise birthday present for her . The surprise is a DP from Pascal and Mario . She changes into a sexy outfit , pisses on Mario ( this is cut ) and quickly moves onto sex , double vaginal and DP , which she loves ! Claire Brown ( better known as the classily titled Betty Swallocks ) is next . And she's pregnant . But that doesn't stop her from getting a DP from Pascal and some other Belgugese guy . She pretends she's never heard of a DP . Puh-lease ! Barbara Moulineux is next . She's not pretty and her scene is mercifully short . The anal lasts for about 5 seconds and there is no DP . Her husband watches , rather bemused , which adds a bit of uncomfort to the scene . Annie Adams is number 4 . She is ' surprised ' by Ben , Pascal and the other guy showing up at her work and pretends that her alleged ' husband ' doesn't know about the shoot . She's a good looking woman but her breasts are ridiculously fake-looking . The sex includes anal but no DP . Shannon is last . She's getting on a bit but is still really dirty and does a cowgirl double vaginal with Pascal and the other guy . There is no anal or DP . Her husband watches and she needs to erm . . . shave a wee bit .
Dog ? Where ?	I saw a bit of Dog Day Afternoon when I was about nine years old and left it this long before actually focusing on watching the whole film . Despite claiming to be the film expert that I am , I had little knowledge of what the film is actually about . Sonny and Sal ( that's Pacino and John Cazale ) and some other guy enter a bank in Brooklyn with the intention of robbing it . But they simply couldn't be less prepared . One second into the robbery the third robber chickens out and runs away , leaving Sonny and Sal to do it on their own . The staff are jaded and cynical but politely put up with their bumbling and are only too happy to see the back of them . But the police surround the building at the last minute and a hostage situation suddenly arouses . With nowhere to go Sonny can only make the usual demands but the media circus outside makes him a nationwide star and the crowds outside cheer for him whenever he makes an appearance at the doors . I guess that in the 70's ( a decade I never witnessed ) public morale was so low that a failed bank robber could actually be a kind of hero for even attempting to stick it to the man . Based on a true story , the dialogue is mostly improvised , giving it a raw , realistic feel . Despite this , the script still won an Academy Award . A young Al Pacino seems to disappear and you end up seeing him only as Sonny . Why he never won the Oscar for Best Actor that year is beyond me . But I guess they thought that Jack Nicholson as McMurphy was more iconic / important / worthy or whatever . In fact , One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest took almost all the Oscar's DDA was nominated for . Having never seen that film , I can't really judge if it deserved them . It was also competing with Jaws for Best Picture that year . Man , 1975 sure was a good year for movies . Something that simply cannot be said for any year in the past decade . One my favorite actors ( Lance Henriksen , the man with the coolest voice in the world ) has a small role as one of the FBI Agents . I never spotted him for a while ( he's still quite young in this ) and he has very little dialogue , but it still a pivotal role . It's hard to define the genre that DDA fits into . On the one hand it's a hard-hitting real-life drama but on the other it's a satirical black comedy that's not without several moments of laugh-out-loud humor . Not a film for action junkies , I assume this is more for film buffs of students more than anyone else , but it's certainly an important film and it marks one of the many turning points in Pacino's never-ending career .
A pretty good mystery .	Okay , we understand that a Scooby-Doo mystery is not going to be in the same league as a Citizen Kane mystery . But Scooby has good movies and bad movies just like any other Mega-Star . I'm pleased to say that Where's My Mummy is in the former category . Velma is assisting an archaeological dig in Egypt ( on the Sphinx no less ) when she finds a mysterious necklace which could be the key to Cleopatra's lost treasure . I've never heard of such treasure , but for the sake of the movie , we'll pretend it exists . The rest of the Mystery Inc . gang turn up to visit her but the site is promptly taken over by Amelia von Butch ( Christine Baranski ) , a gun-ho Lara Croft-type and her band of cohorts . Despite warnings of ancient curses she forces the Mystery Inc . gang and an obnoxious reality-TV host ( Jeremy Piven ) to enter the tomb with her to solve it's secrets and find the treasure . Immediately setting-off traps , Shaggy and Scooby are separated from the rest of the gang ( not on purpose for a change ) and get involved in their own mystery of a deranged Hotep ( Ron Pearlman ) and his followers who worship a strange God known as Scoobis and his servant Shagman . Both stories are kept lively and entertaining until they merge into one . There's not a moment of boredom and , as usual , a couple of cool original songs too . But sadly , no new version of Scooby-Doo , Where Are You at all . To compare it with similar films like Indiana Jones , Tomb Raider or even The Goonies would be pointless . Yes , we've seen this kind of thing before but animation is a medium that present more opportunities than live-action and there's loads of inventive set-pieces and imaginative locations that have become the standard of modern Scooby-Doo outings . And what do you know ? It even manages to provide a rather surprising twist at the end . We know it's far-fetched and unbelievable as always , but it ties together pretty well , thus making the film a little bit better a little bit more . As long as their is imagination behind this franchise , Scooby-Doo could go on forever . He may deliver a few duds from time to time ( Monster of Mexico was extremely crap after all ) but he still a very important character in modern animation and will always come out on top if we believe in him . Or am I taking this too seriously ?
What the problem is ?	I usually don't like Martin Lawrence and I find his anti-white humor to be quite offensive as well as his string of bad movies . But compared to his other movie of 2003 ( that would be the shockingly awful Bad Boys II ) , National Security is a rather easy-going and light-hearted cop comedy flick with quite a few good laughs . A lot of them , surprisingly , coming from Lawrence himself . Hank Rafferty ( Steve Zahn ) is a cop who is unfairly thrown in jail for apparently beating a black suspect ( Lawrence ) who just got kicked out of Police Academy . With his career in tatters he emerges from the slammer with only one job opportunity available ; a lowly guard for a lowly security company . Determined to follow up on the big case he was involved with before serving time , he crosses the path of fellow security guard Earl Montgomery ( Lawrence again ) and the two reignite their old conflict . The old love / hate buddy thing may be old and the plot may be silly but it's a great excuse for loads of action set-pieces and humor . The potentially dangerous comedy of black vs white never becomes offensive and is handled with such lightness that it never becomes an issue . Both men have their failings and bonuses and are as equal as each other . You really do feel a great partnership between them despite their arguing and fights . Give National Security a try . It's slick and fast-moving and is a helluva lot better than Bad Boys II . You'll probably be surprised at how funny Martin Lawrence is . I was . The DVD is in great looking 1 . 85 : 1 widescreen with pretty good Dolby 5 . 1 sound . The scenes where Lawrence uses his automatic pistol really pack a heavy punch in the . 1 LFE channel . The usual deleted scenes and commentary are included on the DVD but I was surprised the extended ending wasn't included in the film . It would have been better with it .
Poor man's GTA is actually quite fun	True Crime owes a lot , if not everything , to the Grand Theft Auto series . Indeed it is very difficult these days to have a free-roaming action game and not compare it to GTA but True Crime is so alarmingly similar that I'm surprised Rockstar didn't try to sue . The story of True Crime is right out of a direct-to-video action film of the late 80s . It starts out as your typical renegade cop shoots first and ask questions later kind of pulp but ends up being about ancient Chinese wizards , huge fire-breathing dragons and sewer-dwelling zombies . If it began far-fetched then what it ends up as is just plain weird . However , that's not to say you'll not have fun . The plot is spread out over 9 different stages each with about 10 individual missions . It's possible to replay your favorite missions too . True crime has 5 different styles of play . First their is the free-roaming bit where you can run all over LA solving street crimes . There there's the car chases in which you run bad guys ( and sometimes airplanes ) off the road . Third is the stealth missions in which you must sneak into places unnoticed and render unconscious anyone you see . Fourth is the one on one combat and fifth , my favorite , is the shoot-em-up levels , where you can do loads of stunts and diving through the air blasting away at bad guys . The slow motion as you zero in on the targets is brilliant . But I would have preferred if the game was bloodier . A few splatters here and there ain't enough . But much of this game is boring , aesthetically at the least . The geographically accurate LA is impressive but it's so unbelievably bland . The dullest colors are used to paint the environment and the city is pretty made up of grey-scale . The cars also cannot do stunts . Which is crap . How brilliant would it be to drive right off the freeway and fly into the sky before plummeting 100 feet ? Too bad , you can't do it because of the pointless invisible wall . Pros : Loads of action . Blowing up stuff is fun . Cool cut scenes with funny dialogue . Great tunes . Cons : Some missions are boring . No stunts . LA is bland and thoroughly NON-interactive . The fights with General Kim are IMPOSSIBLE ! Loads of very long loading times ! No matter how disappointing some parts of the game are I will still be getting the sequel , True Crime : New York City . But please do not make as boring as LA was and cut out those awful loading times ! Graphics Sound A Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Get back to school !	In this cartoon , which earned an Oscar nomination for best animated short back in 1942 , Donald is a truant officer hunting down local tear-aways Huey , Duey and Louie . They are all happily swimming down at the old waterhole until Donald finds and , tries his hardest , to put an end to their fun . The usual game of outsmarting each other follows as the ducklings evade Donald and set him up in traps . One particular trap involves duping Donald into believe he's roasted them in their gang hut with three cooked turkeys . Why would Ducks be cooking turkeys anyway ? Isn't that slightly perverse ? And why does their gang hut have a bed in it ? What exactly do those kids get up to in there ? The cartoon ends with Donald leading them back to school only to find out it's the summer holidays . Predictable yes , but lively and imaginative animation .
Very important point . . .	. . . but unsubtle , ungracefully and inelegantly made . But maybe now in a time of ignorance and superficiality such brazen tactics are the only way to make us understand . Perhaps Moore's critics don't understand that there is no REAL truth . Covering something from all angles , be it a war , an argument or a misunderstanding doesn't lead to pure truth , only confusion . It's no secret that Moore has an agenda with this film . And I agreed with it long before I saw it . The point is President Bush must not be re-elected . And Moore gives us hundreds of reasons why . However it's the manipulation of the editing and arranging of montages that prevent the film from having any real dignity or class . Sure there is a sense of humor and huge understanding of American politics ( you MUST pay attention to every last word ) but Moore's point is too biased to really connect with me . Not that I think Bush deserves any sympathy or a second ( or 1 , 345 , 456th ) chance . It's just that his intentions come across too forcefully . Yes , the war in Iraq is unjust and the biggest lie and waste of human life since the Vietnam catastrophe . And all for what ? For money , nothing more than paper . If we ever come through this will we trust the Government again ? Most ominously not . After watching this film will you ever trust the Government again ? I promise you . . . you won't ! There are some powerful scenes , a woman breaking down in tears reading a letter from her dead son who died in Iraq for Bush's greed , every Senator Moore meets refusing to sign their children up for the Army while poor black kids from the projects willingly sign up , the charred bodies of US soldiers being dragged through the streets in Iraq . But the most effective part of the film was also the most ingenious . The opening to Fahrenheit plays the sounds of planes crashing into the WTC on a black screen . Powerful effects without the use of images at all . Why ? We've seen it so many time we need not see it again . Because terrorism is blind . Out of respect for people sensitive for such images being exploited yet again . And to heighten our awareness of the horror of just screaming and panic and the cheapening of human life . There are parts of this film that will rile you up and enrage you , be it the skillful arranging of facts or the ignorant bystander calling the woman crying over her dead son ' staged ' . Sadly though , it wanders off the point in the middle and kind of sags . If it had been leaner then I wouldn't have gotten so impatient . But as it stands Fahrenheit is an unapologetic firestorm designed to rip right through the Whitehouse and the Senate . With any luck it will . We may not ever trust any new administration but we'll NEVER be fooled again . Lesson might be learned . But at what price ?
Daffy Duck : Ghostbuster	This Looney Tunes cartoon was one of the shorts edited into Daffy's feature length Quackbusters movie . He plays a Paranormalist , who deals with everything from ghouls and ghosts and goblins to aliens and UFO's . A possessed woman calls him up begging to be exorsized . Good job Daffy knows what he's doing for a change . It's a funny short as the possessed woman turns into a vampire creature whenever Daffy isn't looking . But Daffy seems right at home in this particular guise as he did Duck Dodgers or Dorlock Homes . I'd like to see more of this in the future or maybe even the Quackbusters DVD if Warner ever decide to release it .
An odd choice	Like me , Donald has the worst temper in the world . I get angry and worked up at the slightest of things and , guaranteed , if I were to sit out in the garden in a hammock , like Donald does in this cartoon , I would end up going mad with rage instead of relaxing . Even if it's just a simple caterpillar bugging me . The voice on his little radio promotes stress-reducing techniques . But come on , this is Donald Duck ! A pretty odd choice of fellow to be promoting relaxation tips to . Apparently counting to ten is a good way of not losing control . Trust me , it's not . Much as Donald proves to us in this cartoon .
Calling it ' Stick Race ' would have been more appropriate	It's Eeyore's birthday , but none of his so-called friends have bothered to notice . Pooh has made a new game involving chucking sticks into the river to see which one wins in a race . He calls it ' Pooh Sticks ' . Now , where I come from that particular noun means something completely different . When Eeyore comes floating along they realize that he is more depressed than usual . When he reveals why the day is supposed to be so special they all run off to find makeshift presents and prepare a party . It actually works , and he cheers up . A fine Winnie the Pooh short , with the great animation and wonderful backgrounds we've come to expect . It also keeps Christopher Robin to a minimum .
So very tired	The Pink Pather has stayed up way past his bedtime watching rubbish on TV . With his eyes totally bloodshot he decides to finally hit the hay . Only he can't seem to shut down . And counting sheep doesn't help . Things get worse when an annoying , a rather strong , fly buzzes into his bedroom . Nothing Pinky does seems to kill it or keep it out . It even manages to fly down the phone the line and come out the receiver as well as deliver a few powerful karate chops . Poor Pinky . Despite being very similar to the Donald Duck cartoon Early to Bed , it's still very funny with loads of laughs .
Phantasm's End ?	After taking the series too far in the direction of horror-hokum , Don Coscarelli pushes Phantasm IV further into sci-fi than any previous film but brings back the narcoleptic approach the first that II and III were sorely without . In doing so , Phantasm IV becomes the most atmospheric and haunting one yet . Just don't expect long scenes of exposition or plot-details being unsubtly wrapped up , the mystery of the Tall Man is too strong to ever fully end . As you should remember , at the end of Phantasm III Mike disappeared into the darkness after the Tall Man did some kind of unnecessary brain surgery on him and Reggie was literally left hanging after being pinned to the wall by a dozen killer spheres . Well you can relax , the Tall Man knows that killing Reggie will achieve nothing and focuses on catching Mike , who has a plan to draw him out into the open by hiding in the desert . Reggie closely follows , driving through loads of deserted towns already pillaged by the Tall Man . And the ghost of Jodie ( now looking like the identical twin brother of Stellan Skarsgard ) comes back to offer some suspicious advice . It's all very , very minimalist and reminds me a lot of the Myst video games in regards to the overwhelming sense of abandonment and isolation , the journal-keeping , the doorways to other worlds , the stark silence of desert landscapes and the weird contraptions . The true identity of the Tall Man is finally revealed but the forces behind him are still kept in the dark . The answers are hinted at rather than announced and the dialogue sparse without being empty . Another cool thing about this sequel are the many eerie and haunting ( and haunted ? ) locations such as a lonely beach , spooky rock formations , a lifeless Wilshire Boulevard ( the biggest street in LA ) and barren salt flats that give it such an otherworldly and supernatural feel that the typical mausoleums and old graveyards of II and III didn't . Again the Tall Man steals the show from Reggie , who is putting up a harder fight to make it his movie . Both are great characters who shrug off the typical characteristics of villain and hero and become people who you can REALLY root for . Yes , you can side with the Tall Man ! It's a shame that Angus Scrimm has never really gotten any huge recognition outside of the cult-horror circles as his approach to the character is very unique and he takes his acting very seriously . Since Don Coscarelli shot so much unused footage for the original Phantasm film he incorporates some of it into the story , thus heightening the already warped space-time continuum the Phantasm universe exists in . As a result of this the ending may seem annoyingly ambiguous but can be interpreted in so many different ways . Since Coscarelli is busy with other projects right now it seems unlikely that the long-rumored Phantasm's End will happen any time soon . But when you enjoy a series of films so much do you really want to see it end ? The non-closure of Phantasm IV keeps the story alive after the credits roll instead of finishing it for good . Which is how I would prefer it . If you watch it with company , this tends to lead to much discussion afterwards , something more straight-forward horror films don't . I've always thought that if you wish to tackle something outlandish and imaginative that you must have an equally as strong counter-imagination to fully take it in and comprehend . If you prefer films like Bridget Jones and turn your nose up to Lost Highway then your probably best steering away from the Phantasm series . If you're better than that then you're in for one helluva crazy ride .
Great beat-em-up indeed !	This game really needs a re-release on the GBA . It's perfect hand-held fodder . But don't let that put you off if you see it in the arcade . It's a great button-basher , especially if playing with a pal . In 2-player mode you play as both Frank Castle and Nick Fury blasting your way through loads of the Kingpin's thugs through varied locations with mental power-ups and weapons ( guns included ) . Yes , it's the same old beat-em-up stuff you've seen in countless other games but this time around the comic-book edge and blood spatters make it worthwhile . The graphics are also very cool , mimicking Marvel comic-book artwork and every other time you punch someone the words ' POW ! ' or ' WHAM ! ' will flash up on the screen . You'll have a great time playing this Punisher game . It's probably somewhat overshadowed by the new Punisher movie and game ( which is a lot more bloodier and brutal ) , which means that a new console port is unlikely but I would still love to see this on the GBA .
See you in L . A . folks !	After starring in loads and loads of serious movies in a row , Robert Deniro needed to do something light and felt that Midnight Run was just what he was looking for . Originally a Paramount project , the suits wanted to team him up with Cher for some sex appeal ( oh , dear GOD no ! ) but director Martin Brest ( teehee ) vehemently opposed this idea and the project ended up at Universal . The role of Jonathan Mardukas ended up going to deadpan Charles Grodin ( though a young Bruce Willis auditioned ) since Martin Brest ( teehee ) felt that he had the best chemistry with Deniro . I'm glad he didn't make that compromise . Can you honestly imagine Midnight Run with Cher ? ? ? Deniro is Jack Walsh a tough , ex-cop bounty hunter who is offered $50 , 000 by a shady bail-bondsman to capture crooked accountant Jonathan ' The Duke ' Mardukas and escort him from NY to LA for a court appearance . The Duke embezzled millions of dollars from crime boss Jimmy Serrano ( the always great Dennis Farina ) and gave it all to charity so it's not just California justice who wants to get their hands on him . The FBI also want The Duke for their own purposes and The Duke is a clever and cunning enough to chuck as many spanners in the works as possible . So it's not just a simple matter of hopping on a plane . . . or an easy Midnight Run . With Marvin Dorfler ( John Ashton ) another sleazy bounty hunter after them too and loads of double crosses Midnight Run becomes a sort of action / comedy Planes , Trains and Automobiles character drama with enough F-words to give TV censors a nervous breakdown . Back in the stinkin ' early 90s the stinkin ' BBC dubbed out every stinkin ' swear word with the most hilariously awful stinkin ' choices . Why ? Honestly , this kind of thing makes me wonder what the hell is going on the minds of these censors . Do they honestly think that they're making the world a better place by not exposing full-grown adults to an ancient Anglo-Saxon word for making love ? But that's a separate rant altogether . Those familiar with Brest's ( teehee ) previous mega-hit Beverly Hills Cop will find a lot of Midnight Run's pacing and cinematography familiar . He is the kind of director that only makes a movie every five years or so but I have a feeling that Gigli has ended his career for good . Don't let that tarnish your feelings toward this film though . Even if Midnight Run didn't have a clever and funny script the chemistry between Deniro and Grodin is worth it alone . We've seen odd-couple buddy / buddy types before but they do it with class . Although it's nearing 20 years old , Midnight Run seems timeless in way ( despite the very liberal 80s attitude towards smoking ) , mostly because it knows it's nothing but pure entertainment that , for once , isn't dumbed down for the lowest common denominator . These days we get crap like Epic Movie and Talladega Nights . Where did the R-rated comedies go ? What grim times we live in . Not sure about Danny Elfman's score though . Totally the wrong choice of composer , my only complaint .
Big Improvement	It's no secret that I absolutely hated the first film . But Spiderman 2 has truckloads more excitement , pathos and humor . Almost every area where the first film lagged in improved upon . Though I'm still not keen on Tobey Maguire as Peter Parker ( not tall enough , too much of a geek ) he was better in the role this time around . Though I'm not sure why he's still a total nerd . This is not how Peter Parker is portrayed in the comic books and it's weird that in the movie he comes across more like Clark Kent . The CGI effects are miles better too . Some shots still looked a little iffy , but rest was so seamless I never noticed . Granted , it would be hard to get any worse than effects in the original but I was genuinely surprised at how good they were . A lot more time and care as been put into arranging them than before . Alfred Molina as Doc Ock was a hundred what Willem Dafoe's campy , power-ranger Green Goblin was . You could tell that underneath he really was a good guy who was just too carried away with his work . He really did have a menacing presence in any scene featuring him with his extra arms ( surely more resembling a spider Peter Parker ) . The earthquakes signaling his approach are very cool . The sequel has a more structured feel to it and has more inventive set-pieces . The first one felt like an empty showcase for effects but here they were integral to the story . I'm not keen on Kirsten Dunst though ( she looks far too much like my ex ) . In the comics she is an outrageously proportioned and glamorous woman . I just don't see that in Kirsten Dunst . However , she really did get into the character and I believed in her relationship with Peter this time as before it felt like rejected sub-Dawson's Creek trash . Spiderman 2 is also made in widescreen , which is cool as I was disappointed at Sam Raimi's inexplicably shooting the original ' flat ' . A movie of this scale deserves scope and size and this time we get what we should have got before . Considering how the movie has already earned $40 kabillion in 3 weeks you hardly need me to tell you to go out and see it . But for once the box office receipts are validated by a good movie . Look out for some funny in-jokes to Evil Dead and Bruce Campbell in a funny cameo as an obnoxious theatre usher .
A MAJOR IMPROVEMENT	This movie rocks . It looks and feels more futuristic than the first 3 and for once the characters weren't boring , annoying or blank . The space pirates , the mad doctors , the marines and the new , very sexy and very seductive Ripley are very appealing . The mad doctors wanted to bring Ripley back because of the Queen that was inside her . So she is cloned , but only the eighth copy ? works . All of the others crashed , like computers , and look way gross . She has partial memories of her past , has superhuman strength , has acid for blood ( cool ) and is connected to the creatures in a weird way . The mad doctors want more hosts for the aliens so they can breed them and train them for Biological Warfare . The space pirates bring a cargo full of frozen prisoners to them for that reason and bring with them Call , an android , who takes a large interest in Ripley . It was inevitable that the aliens would break loose and when they do , all hell breaks loose . This time round the Aliens seem cooler and smarter , unlike in Aliens when they were just there as a reason for gunfire , they can talk to each other and can figure out how doors and buttons work . Although they are mostly CGI , they still look scary and the swimming sequence in the flooded dinnerhall is cool to the max . Many critics disliked the ending immensely , but I think that the beautiful sunset over earth infinitely better than the ending in Alien 3 . The " Newborn " Alien is gross , creepy and way disturbing . I have no doubt that you will feel the same and the " death by suction " is sickening . I hope that there is another Alien movie that is as cool as this one . But it seems that the odd numbered Alien movies are crap and the even good . Or am I just talking nonsense ?
Brilliantly done action	It's easy to understand why Airforce One was such a big hit . The President saves the country . America has an honorable man as their leader and he's saving them from those no good filthy Reds again . Audiences walked out with pride in their hearts ( fuelled by Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score ) and they forgot about the LewinskyGate scandal that was going down with the REAL President . But the film is very good in it's own right too . Wolfgang Peterson creates a heavy feeling of tension , Ford a likable hero and Oldman a hissable villain who was actually quite scary . The film is also very well put together technically . The editing and sound is top-notch . But there are flaws . And one BIG flaw . Some of the dialogue really sucks . And Wendy Crewson is VERY bad as the First Lady . The only reason her character is even in it is because every President has a First Lady . Her role is totally useless . I predicted her EVERY line of dialogue before she even said it . I am not kidding . Even Oldman at one point tells her to ' SHUT UP ! ' I never thought I would find myself agreeing with a Russian terrorist but now I have . If you can overlook this minor , although highly irritating , glitch you will totally enjoy a high-octane action film with many , increasingly exciting , set-pieces . Very cool .
Quite good , rather .	When I first saw this movie I wasn't expecting anything great . I thought it was just going to be another ' corruption-in-the White-house-plot ' but it turned out to be rather different . At the time such films were popular thanks to the Lewinskigate scandal . Absolute Power is much better than other films in the sub-genre like Murder at 1600 . The plot and subject matter are handled with care and maturity and the direction was dignifying to the source material despite having some radical changes near the end . This was the second film I saw that Eastwood had directed ( after Perfect World ) and I was surprised to see that he is as good at directing as he is acting . Every scene is masterfully edited and framed . Even with a 121 minute running time the film doesn't drag at any point . I was most impressed with the opening of the movie . Despite the fact that Clint in on screen for the entire first 35 minutes he only has two short lines . I wonder why he didn't cut these out and say nothing until after the opening act as a way of giving the film a peculiar edge . Still , Absolute Power has an opening that has more class and masterful storytelling than most entire movies . There are three other main actors in the movie . Gene Hackman as the conniving President , Laura Linney as Eastwood's estranged daughter and Ed Harris as the investigating cop . Despite the scope of the film I thought it was brilliant how Eastwood kept the entire story between a handful of characters . Absolute Power focuses more on these characters and their motivations and feelings rather than giving us ridiculous reasons for set-pieces and shoot-outs . But the movie still has action and it is very well done indeed . I recommend you see this movie but try to see it in widescreen to fully appreciate Eastwood's great cinematography .
Very deep and intense	When I first saw this movie I hated the bad guys so much I walked out of the theatre angry . This is a good thing by-the-way . Not only are the bad guys repellent creeps they are also , in a way , pretty ordinary . You'll never look at a complete stranger the same way again . I thought Nic Cage did a very good job of portraying a squeaky-clean private eye Tom Welles ( he's just so innocent looking ) descending into the world of hardcore pornography and unknowingly letting it change him . Joaquin Phoenix plays wanna-be musician Max California who is also Welles ' sidekick . I'd never really seen him in any movies before this but now that I've seen him in a likable role , in a movie where there are very few likable characters , I look forward to his next movies . Some parts of this film to me are very disturbing , for example the first viewing of the snuff film where we see the girl cry or finale with the jumping record . Joel Schumacher certainly has redeemed himself over Batman and Robin ( shudder ) and should stop being the victim of nasty criticism by critics who are rubbishing this brilliant film only because Batman and Robin was terrible . If you like your thriller movies to be deep , intense and nerve-racking then watch this movie . In case you didn't know the movie was originally about 3 hours long and an alternate ending had Welles kill himself by driving into a wall .
Another solid beat ' em up !	If you're a Streets of Rage or Double Dragon fan then Final Fight will no-doubt appeal to you . I only ever played it in the arcade once about 13 years ago but I was a cool game indeed . This Gameboy Advance version is identical to the Arcade but with a few more touches added such as new cut-scenes and animations and a couple of hidden levels . Since I am such a wimp when it comes to games I did complete this on my fourth go ( on the easiest setting ) but I did notice a LOT of similarities between this and SOR in regards to the baddies , level progression and power-ups . That's not a bad thing but I only wish it lasted a little longer . Still it's a cool game and definitely worth getting . Graphics A Sound Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
BEST THRILLER EVER	It doesn't need huge bombastics to be entertaining . Or any OTT elaborateness . No-siree-bob . This truly is a solid action thriller . Kurt Russell is very realistic as the distraught hubbie but even more believable and CHILLING is JT Walsh . He simply is THE greatest bad guy ever ( TM ) . No one could have made him Eviler . I try to impersonate him but I cannot come anywhere near as close to the cold-hearted coolness that he created in the role . When he denies ever seeing Russell or giving Quinlan a ride is like . . . so scary and cool .
What if I sing to you ?	Tom sneaks into a well protected garden to serenade a gorgeous female kitty . But first he has to tie up Spike ( here called ' Killer ' ) . His chosen song is actually ' Is You Is Or Is You Ain't My Baby ? ' , which is actually very cool song . Too bad Jerry doesn't share the same sentiments . Tom's crooning is keeping him awake in his letterbox / bedroom and he just wants him to shut the hell up . Jerry actually only gets to torment Tom a couple of times in this cartoon . Most of the pain is dished out by Spike . And it is very , very funny , with great visual jokes and humor .
A noble effort indeed .	I had my reservations about this new TMNT movie . As a HUGE fan of the original comic-books and a hater of the animated show I found the 1990 movie a fair compromise of both . This one however feels closer to the Turtles from the black and white comics of the mid-eighties . Taking place soon after the first movie ( perhaps the second too ) and completely dismissing the awful third one , the story goes the Ghostbusters II , Scooby-Doo way of having our heroes split up and go their separate ways before coming together to fight evil again . Leonardo goes to South America , Donatello runs his own IT Support Centre , Mikey is a party clown and Raph does his own brand of street justice , dressed in iron armour , calling himself the Nightwatcher . April and Casey are together now and are involved in her antique business and a businessman has hired her to transport mysterious statues into NYC and it appears he is also involved with the Foot Clan . What it all builds to is a VERY Ghostbusters-like ending , but it's still damn entertaining and miles better than most family-orientated movies these days . First and foremost , TMNT is about the characters . The action is very well done and creative , but I feel it takes a backseat to getting to know the Turtles and Splinter again . The CGI realization of the characters is perfect , as are the voice actors , especially Mako . Though it would have been nice to have Corey Feldman return as Mikey . But Raph will always be my favorite . It was cool that Casey also bore some resemblance to Elias Koteas , since I liked him in that role . The locations are pretty damn atmospheric and the animation is top-notch . I was worried that it might just look like an extended video-game cut-scene , but those fears were soon proved incorrect . This is a film I am very much looking forward to seeing in HD . This is a film we need a sequel to . Now ! Sorry about the badly written review , I'm not really in a writing mood but I felt the need to praise this film .
Come up and see me sometime .	Despite the rather generic title ( there had already been a T & J short called Dog Trouble ) this Oscar-winning cartoon proves that it's worth the Academy Award by being very funny and inventive . Mouse Trouble has Tom order a book on how to catch mice ( from Random Mouse Publishing nonetheless ) and follow the foolproof instructions exactly as printed no matter how many times they prove to be completely ineffectual . Naturally they all come back to bite him in the ass . Poor Tom , he gets so beaten up in this one but never lets the pain lessen his enthusiasm . Plenty of visual jokes and laughs in this one .
Best adventure game on the C64	' BURN FOUL FIEND ' Anyone who played Nythyhel will know what I mean by that . Most young gamers today will be completely unfamiliar with text-based adventure games . The ones where you had to type in commands and read detailed descriptions of the environment to look for clues and solve puzzles . Primitive they certainly were but they were loads of fun and helped pave the way for much more advanced adventure games of today like the Resident Evil series . Though released way back in 1986 , I never played Nythyhel until 1992 . I was a fan of text adventure games but never really had many to play . Of those that I did have , Nythyhel was the best . You play an Occultist investigator who is on a mission to find a missing Doctor or something ( my memory is a little rusty here ) in a case that takes you across London , to the quaint English countryside , on a plane ( that you have to bail out of ) and a French castle . Along the way you encounter demons , collect artifacts and pick up clues . In fact the game was so big that it was spread out over both sides of the tape ( man , remember loading up tapes ? ) . Quite unusual for an adventure game . What made this game better than others in the genre is that almost every command that you typed in had a response instead of ' I do not understand ' . The graphics were alright but there could have been more of them , most screens are just filled with text and description . I don't really know what it is about these games that made them so appealing but I am sure they really only appealed to geeky Dungeons and Dragons types of kids . In fact I'm such a geek that I can safely say if Nythyhel was remade today as a Next Gen game then it would surely rock .
The Whisky Train	Holmes has been hired to protect a man carrying a priceless gem as he travels from London to Edinburgh by night train . A sinister and suspicious lot of passengers surround them in their carriage and before long the man is dead and the gem stolen . With Lestrade ( who just happens to be there ) and Watson ( who almost misses the train ) to ' help ' , Holmes views each and every passenger with suspicion as the Scotch Express ( the what ? ) rockets through the dark countryside . There's plenty of atmosphere and even a little bit of claustrophobia but director Roy William Neil makes full use of his literal train set and isolated setting . It may be a bit too short , but it's certainly one of the best Rathbone / Bruce movies .
Ofelia Dreams	Don't get muddled up . This is not a movie in which a cute American girl dances with she-man David Bowie and makes pals with huge cuddly toys . No , this is one of those eviler fairy tales with baby-eating monsters and bloody carnage . The kind of stuff that Hellboy director Guillermo Del Toro is best at . Ofelia and her mother move from the city to a large mansion in a rural area of 1944 Spain . Mother has remarried , since the death of her dad , to the cruel and wicked Captain Vidal . A man who only wants her for her womb and unborn child , with no interest in Ofelia at all . Vidal and his men use the mansion as a base to fight against the Republican rebels . Not the best of environments for an 11-year-old to be in , Ofelia stumbles upon the Labyrinth of Fauno ( Pan , the Goat God , has nothing to do with this film , so I don't understand the English title ) in the expansive mansion garden . Deep inside she finds Fauno , a sort of . . . well he's a mix of a lot of things . Imagine Darkness from Legend crossed with Mr . Tumnus , The Predator and Davy Jones . Fauno tells her that she is really the Princess of some Magical Kingdom . Her father , the King has been searching for her and has opened many portals to Earth . Fauno believes she is the one and tests her by ordering the completion of 3 bizarre tasks . The real world around Ofelia crumbles as Captain Vidal goes psycho , brutally murdering and torturing almost anyone he can . The rebels close in and her mother becomes very sick . Preferring Fauno's ghoulish tasks to witness murder on a daily basis , Ofelia becomes increasingly involved in her enigmatic Labyrinth world . In this respect it is very much like Catherine Storr's novel Marianne Dreams ( and then the movie Paperhouse by Bernard Rose ) . Even Javier Navarrete's wonderful score sometimes reminded me of Hans Zimmer's score for Paperhouse . Definitely a CD I will have to get when it comes out ! Despite the adult rating I would still take kids to see this . And by that I mean intelligent kids who are not addicted to Playstation and who don't mind subtitles . With so many crappy kids movies featuring talking animals a horror / drama shot from the point of view of an 11-year-old girl may just be the perfect cure .
Feels like there's something missing	And there is . This film is infamous for having much cut from it by Billy Wilder himself . And while I appreciate his choices I am annoyed with the fact that they are not featured as extras on this DVD . I'm not exactly sure what the deleted scenes ( or should that be plots ) are but I can't shake the feeling that the first 30 minutes are completely redundant in relation to the rest of the movie and perhaps it might not have been if the movie were longer . Cutting a movie down to size is always a very tough thing to do . The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes suffers , but still manages to be entertaining . Complaints aside , I really do enjoy Wilder's bizarre approach to Sherlock Holmes . Robert Stephens plays him with more a touch more humor and pathos than most other actors and comes across as a mix between Alan Rickman and Rick Mayall . It's definitely the most pleasant I've seen Holmes . The mystery he gets involved in may be huge , though it's not exactly exciting . Wilder seems more interested in having every element of the story fall into place than give us something with a sense of urgency . And for a film over 2 hours long ( it was meant to be 3 ) it's not cool to have every scene presented at its own pace . There has to be some compromise . The photography is excellent . The 2 . 35 : 1 widescreen frame is used expertly and one can only imagine the horrors of this film being presented in pan and scan . The anamorphic picture looks fine for a 33 year old film and the Mono sound is completely adeqequate . Extras consist of a trailer , an interview with the editor , deleted sequences ( not the all of them ) and a photo gallery .
A fun , low-key horror	Silver Bullet is my favorite of Steven King's horror adaptations ( yes , I do like this better than The Shining ) . King even penned the screenplay himself ( from his short story ' The Cycle of the Werewolf ' ) , but since he was also responsible for the awful Maximum Overdrive , that's no solid proof of quality . But it a damn cool movie . What makes it so different and unique is that it's horror movie told from a child's perspective ( though I admit that the retrospective narration seems out of place ) and has a brother / sister dynamic that's quite cute and makes you really care for the characters . Corey Haim plays Marty Coslaw , a young boy who is confined to a wheelchair for reasons unknown . His older sister Jane is forced to take care of him and throws tantrums whenever the mum and dad take Marty's side ( which is always ) . But the chair doesn't stop Marty from being mischievous . Especially when his manic , reckless Uncle Red ( a fat Gary Busey-absolutely brilliant , as always ) builds him a motorized wheelchair / bike called the Silver Bullet . There is killer in their small town who strikes every month when the moon is full . The townsfolk gradually become more and more weary as autumn rolls on and Marty takes a personal offence when his best friend is murdered , his best girl is run out of town and a fireworks display is cancelled . Then he witnesses what the killer really is . But who is going to believe a kid's story of a werewolf ? Despite the red-herrings , it's easy to figure out who it is before the main revelation . But it's still a fun mystery . Filmed with the little-used JDC-Scope process , Silver Bullet has brilliant cinematography by Armando Nannuzzi and a wonderful score by Jay Chattaway . There's not much horror to it , but I don't think it was ever the intention to dwell on the violence . Even though I would call this film suitable for kids ( despite the 18 / R-rating ) it's still way better than the PG-13 junk we get these days . The film is also notable for Everett McGill ( so evil as the baddie in Under Siege 2 ) , an under-rated and under-used actor in a typically eccentric role as a charismatic Reverend . Doesn't he look like a cross between Christopher Reeve and David Hasselhoff ? A perfect Halloween movie or any night with the curtains drawn and lights off .
A spring in his step .	Jerry wakes and figures it's going to be another day of being chased by Tom . Thinking giving Tom a big kick in the ass will get the action started he's surprised to find Tom unresponsive . The reason ? Tom is in love with Toodles , the girl cat across the street . He's too head over heels to care about chasing a mouse . Jerry then thinks of a cunning plan to tear his attention away from Toodles by faking a love letter to local alley-cat Butch . It's turns out Butch is more adept at making Toodles swoon and Tom is soon out of the picture as far as dating is concerned . With quite a few inventive moments and loads of visual gags and a nice twist ending , this is certainly one of the better T & J shorts .
His bad side is a dangerous place to be !	Being the most surreal entry in the Bond franchise , LALD only used about half of Ian Fleming's novel to make up the script . The rest was recycled into Licence to Kill and , although different actors assume the role , it can be seen as an interesting companion-piece due to the many similarities . But don't let that put you off . The low-Box Office was simply because they never made a great poster , changed the title during production and it did have to face-off against the uber-popular Batman in that particular summer . As a 10-year-old kid , when I finally did see it ( on pan and scan video ! ) I was surprised to learn that it was rated 15 , something that no other Bond film was . Instantly I knew that this promised more gore and nastier deaths and that it was excuse to finally journey into Bond's dark side . He'd been too clean-cut for a while and needed to get rough and tumble . When CIA Agent pal Felix Leiter is mauled by a shark and his wife murdered right after their wedding ( think of Bond and Tracy Di Vicenzo in OHMSS ) Bond goes renegade and plans to bring to justice heartless cocaine kingpin Franz Sanchez in a clever Yojimbo way . This takes Bond to Mexico ( most of LTK is shot on location instead of the usual fake-locations somewhere in England ) where he and gorgeous CIA babe Pam Bouvier ( who I had a big crush on as a kid ) team up to bring Sanchez's empire down from the inside . Dalton never really got enough time to really shine as Bond , which is a shame since he is light-years ahead of Pierce Brosnan . He is simultaneously sophisticated and rough , calculating and impulsive . LTK showed a side to his character that we'd not seen before . As much as I like Roger Moore , you'd never see him pitching Benicio Del Toro into a cocaine grinder or incinerating Robert Davi . For some reason , John Barry passed on this movie ( he'd scored 14 Bonds previously ) and the scoring duties were left to Michael Kamen . Not only was Dalton taking Bond in a new direction but Kamen took the sound of the film to another ( not necessarily better ) interesting level . It's a shame it's not available on CD as it's really something . Even if it does sound a bit too much like Die Hard sometimes . I feel that LTK has a bad rep and it really doesn't deserve it . In fact it's up there with the best Bond entries and no one should really turn their nose up at it .
Don't make me angry !	In this Acadamy Award-nominated cartoon ( it lost to Tweety Pie ! ) Tom is tired of sharing his daily bowl of milk with Jerry and nothing he seems to do stops him from getting at it . So he makes up a poisonous white liquid from household chemicals and serves it to Jerry , hoping to kill him . Unfortunately it merely gives him great strength and he proceeds to open a can of whoop-ass . Trouble is , his powers come and go at sporadic intervals . So Tom decides to drink the potion himself . It's very funny and you'll certainly be laughing all the way through . The twist ending is the best laugh of all . I won't ruin it , but it was my favorite one yet .
A review of the Director's Cut	As you are probably aware , so called ' unseen editions ' and ' extended editions ' are pretty common on DVD and are usually lousy films with some extra filler thrown in to fool unsuspecting buyers . This is not the case with The Warriors . This is one of those ' director's cuts ' that really makes a difference to the overall film . First and foremost are the comic-book transitions and the new opening . Walter Hill felt that his original presentation of the film was a little lost on the audience of the time and it's subsequent cult status on video . This new cut of the film draws parallels between the Greek legend of Anabasis in the 4th century BC . It was the story of an army of Greek mercenaries who were left stranded after their leader Cyrus the Younger was killed . If they could make it through 1000 miles of hostile territory to the ocean then they would be safe . The Warriors , as you know must make it through all the tough neighborhoods of NY to Coney Island after they are wrongfully blamed for the assassination of mega-gang boss Cyrus . A loose , but truly inspired connection . Back in the 70s there weren't just certain neighborhoods in New York that you avoided . The whole damn city was infested with crime and vermin . The gangs were plentiful and they really did OWN the streets . The scenario of all gangs joining together to form one big Uber-gang may seem far fetched now but if Mayor Gulliani left the city to decay then NYs future could well have ended up this way . But the fact that the Big Apple is a helluva lot safer these days doesn't lessen the overall impact of The Warriors . As I mentioned , the Greek history inspiration is clever . But the film is actually also based on a 1950s novel by Sol Yurick and Walter Hill took a comic-book approach to bring it to life . He was aware of the film's silliness but coupled with the sense of adventure and episodic battles , a pulp fiction take could make it seem believable . But for all we know , maybe there was a gang called the Baseball Furies who went about with painted faces beating invaders to a pulp . They were wild times . This new cut of the film also makes the photography and editing more apparent . Hill frames the movie to look like comic-book panels and , as usual , Freeman Davies ' ( Hill's favorite editor ) cutting gives The Warriors a sleek and fast-paced look on top of Hill's already muscular direction . Walter Hill is an action director of considerable talent who is often overlooked . Films such as 48 Hours ( and it's under-rated sequel ) , Southern Comfort , Trespass and Last Man Standing have never been massive hits , so his hardcore style is only familiar to fans of his work rather than general movie audiences . Which is a shame ! Now is the time to rediscover The Warriors and be reintroduced to a cult classic with this director's cut . I know a lot of people are purists and will decry this as a cheap stunt to make more money but I honestly think it's the superior , definitive version . Judge for yourself and might just agree with me .
Join us !	Released in the years before cable TV and before video cassettes made low budget schlock available to the average viewer , Evil Dead found its audience with the midnight movie horror festival crowd . No way did it get a nationwide release . Privately owned cinemas bought prints and slowly the film spread from coast to coast and even made its way to Britain . But by this time videos were gaining popularity and it was released on cassette at the same time as a very limited theatrical release . Critics and censors dismissed it as trash and not long afterwards it was relegated to the video nasty bin and banned . As silly as this may seem , that was the logic of the BBFC . The fact that it is inventive and well directed was lost on them . And until recently only cult audiences appreciated its value . With Anchor Bay's new DVD we can all finally enjoy the uncut , definitive and best-looking presentation possible . Originally released in 1981 as The Book Of The Dead , this was a feature length re-make of Sam Raimi's short film , Within The Woods . The plot ( excuse ) and story ( violence ) involves a quintet of friends , enjoying a few days of quiet at a remote cabin in the Tennessee woods . These are not Friday the 13th goofballs who want nothing but sex and skinny-dipping . They are realistic . And it all goes nicely until Scotty ( Hal Delrich ) finds an ugly-looking book ( with a face ) and an old reel-to-reel tape recorder in the basement . The tape is of an archaeologist explaining how he resurrected demons that took over his wife in the very same cabin . The professor is nowhere to be found , but the haunting burial rites and incantations written in Sumerian text in the ugly book , The Necronomicon Ex Mortis-Book Of The Dead , are on the tape also . Sheryl ( Ellen Sandweiss ) freaks out . She hears a demonic voice out in the woods . " Join us ! " Foolishly going out to investigate , she is raped by a tree . Although this particular scene isn't so hard to watch , the film still has the power to disturb and make you squirm . Once Sheryl returns , all hell breaks loose and Raimi has a helluva time firing torrents of blood of varying colours throughout the cabin . Limbs are hacked off with carefree abandon and poor old Ash ( Bruce Campbell ) has to take them all on at once . The supernatural hijinks were repeated to a much lesser effect in the sequel , but here Raimi creates an atmosphere of dread and whatever that force is out in the woods - it's scary . It does have some humour , but first time around the filmmakers obviously wanted horror first . You'll wince a few times , no doubt . The raw tone goes hand-in-hand with the low budget and Raimi's bizarre , hardcore cartoonish style is much in evidence . More time is spent building character . Ash loves his girlfriend and a simple little scene between them makes us totally root for him . He is still to become the hapless buffoon , as he will repeat in Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness . At the very least , Evil Dead is so popular that it can no longer be regarded as a cult movie . It's not a classic . Not yet . But it is highly regarded and definitely worth several viewings .
We'll never know the truth !	Because there is no evidence to prove either way . The fact that 2 long prison sentences were still the result of all this is shocking . If I were innocent of a crime I did not commit ( especially one as horrible as this ) , I would NEVER give in and plead guilty just to bargain with the judge . I have no respect for Jesse Friedman in this regard . Let me make it clearer . Andrew Jarecki was just making a documentary about New York Clowns when he met David Friedman , the best party clown in New York . David told him of his past and provided Jarecki with hundreds of reels of family home-movie footage . The Friedmans captured every moment of their lives on film it would seem . The story that unfolded in these films was something Jarecki could never even dream of . Arnold Friedman was a troubled man . After the death of his 9-year-old big sister his father left and the family was torn apart . His mother moved into a tiny apartment with him and his brother and all three of them shared a room . The mother would bring back male partners and shag them in full view / earshot of her sons . Wouldn't that disturb you ? But it gets even worse . He was a merry man , slightly camp and married a woman who was as about as sexually responsive to him as a blow-up doll . They may have had three sons and lived a ' happy ' existence as an upper-middle class Jewish family in a well-to-do part of the state , but underneath it all Arnold was hiding a secret . He was a huge paedophile and he liked really young boys . He would order kiddie fiddling mags from Europe , but one of them was seized by customs and he was investigated . Arnold also taught computer class and the cops made a list of all the names of the kids he taught and made a point of interviewing them with some truly dodgy , unclear , unprofessional techniques . Many of the kids said that Arnold and his oldest son Jesse had been sexually abusing them . And not a simple one-at-a-time deal either . Apparently they had made them all strip naked in class and play a horrible game called ' leap frog ' in which each and everyone of them would quickly and systematically be anally raped . Is this disgusting ? Of course it is ? Do I believe it ? No ! There is no way that this could have continued for as long as it did without someone noticing . Other kids in the same class said nothing like it ever occurred . And if it did then where is the evidence ? Without meaning to sound crude , anal sex is a pretty difficult thing to get right as an adult . For terrified , unwilling children who are being mass-raped where was the tissue damage , the blood , the tears , the agony and the reluctance to ever go back to Mr Friedman's class ? Even for adults it's not simply like sticking a hot dog through a donut . This whole allegation that they did anal-rape as a game of leap frog is absurd and totally far-fetched . Did Arnold Friedman have wicked thoughts about his students ? Probably . Did he involve his then 18-year-old son ? Hmmm , I'm not sure about that one . Let me just say that the Friedman household is one I am glad I am not part of . There always seems to be an atmosphere of unnaturalness or ' something ain't quite right here ' about it . Jesse Friedman says that his dad never hurt him . Jesse Friedman's Defence Attoney says otherwise . This is a particular trick Jarecki uses to show the conflicting sides of the story . One person says black and immediately another person says white . The documentary is nothing but contradicting stories and polar opposites . While I do not believe the entire innocence of Arnold Friedman ( the man clearly WAS a paedophile ) , I do NOT believe the word of the Cops , the FBI or any other authority interviewed . The Judge , one Abbey Boklan , said she was sure of Arnold Friedman's guilt the second she saw him . In my view , she's openly admitting to Gross Professional Misconuct . How dare she , a judge , a stern , responsible authority figure , make such an outrageous , unfounded remark without hearing ANY kind of evidence first . And like I said , there IS no evidence . Only the claims of the children . Nothing in this case was based on evidence because evidence didn't exist . Doesn't that strike you as being really , really odd ? The Cops claimed that hypnosis was used to get answers out of the kids . As well as pressure from the parents ( oblivious to the fact that their kids are undamaged physically ) to tell the proverbial awful truth and encouraging embellishment of perhaps slight truths and instances to the point where this whole ridiculous leap frog game is created . The trial is not the only focus of the film . The complete and utter breakdown of the family is also caught on camera . The sons hate their mother with a passion at her refusal to stand by her man . I can understand their anger , but what woman would ? She had no evidence to persuade her either way , but she always found an unnaturalness to Arnold and the allegations probably confirmed her fears I guess . Arnold killed himself in prison in 1995 so Jesse , also imprisoned for 13 years despite no evidence , could benefit from the $250 , 000 insurance policy . Mrs Friedman re-married but the family name is stained forever in my opinion . So too should be the word of all the unprofessional authorities and lawyers involved . No one in this documentary comes away without tarnish . It's a sick , sad and sorry story that will confuse as much as it enlightens . Make up your own mind .
Will stand the test of time	Even though this TV is now almost 40 years old , it has surely stood the test of time and is still relevant today . Basically , Charlie Brown is upset that Xmas has become too commercialised . He wants to enjoy it but can't because of the shallow , money-grabbing opportunity he sees all around him . The gang try to cheer him up by letting them direct their Xmas play . He finds it a major stain at first but soon finds it easy being an artistic tyrant . But they need an Xmas tree and the only one Charlie can afford is practically a twig . It needs a lot of love , which the gang sure do give it . Also this TV special also features something damn rare in Xmas movies these days ; an actual dedication to Jesus . Now , I am not a puritan Christian but there are sooooo many movies that try to find the TRUE meaning of Xmas but none ever mention the birth of Jesus . Weird eh ? Definitely one of the better Xmas specials and miles better than Mr Magoo Xmas Carol or Denver the Last Dinosaur Save Santa .
Woofbark .	Tom is chasing Jerry , for the usual reasons I guess , until the mouse seeks refuge in a dog pound , where Tom's biggest enemy , Spike , is living . Not letting this get in the way , Tom nicks the head from a hollow dog-statue and sneaks inside in disguise to continue the chase and tricks . Puttin ' on the Dog is a cartoon I remember watching as a kid and it is very funny . A lot of T & J shorts I forget as they can be quite generic at times . But not this one . There are loads of visual gags and it's fun watching facial expressions change as Tom and Jerry fool everyone . There's a lot of inventive humor here and you will laugh out loud a good few times .
When there's trouble you call Dee-Dubya	Of all the Disney franchises my favorite has to be Duck Tales . Many people think that Duck Tales was merely an 80s TV show and never went further than Saturday morning but in reality it has a very rich history going back decades and if you think that it spoofs Indiana Jones you'd be wrong because it's actually the other way around . Darkwing Duck was a spin-off of Duck Tales , taking place in the same universe but transplanting the action from Duckburg to St . Canard . The only regular returning character was bumbling pilot Launchpad McQuack but he was my favorite , though Gizmoduck does make a couple of appearances . Darkwing himself , ordinary Drake Mallard by day , is a sort of cross between Batman , The Scarlet Pimpernel and The Shadow . He's a crime-fighter with absolutely no abilities other than his determination to beat the bad guys though his is utterly confident in himself and craves media attention . With Launchpad as his sidekick and the occasional help from his daughter Goslyn he tackles a variety of strange villains , winning usually by chance . I've often thought that a hero can only be measured by his nemesis and unfortunately none of the Darkwing Duck bad guys are up to much , but that's fine since Darkwing himself is sort of incompetent . Episodes set during the daytime contradict the noirish nature of the show and the best episodes are the ones set in the shadows and dark alleyways . I know that this is a kids show and is not necessarily in the same league as the Batman animated series but it does seem to be selling itself short in this regard . Duck Tales frequently had very dynamic and imaginative stories while Darkwing Duck is sort of hit-and-miss . That's my only complaint though . Darkwing Duck still has loads going for it , including a brilliant theme song and his memorable signature catchphrase ' Let's get dangerous ' ( or ' It's gonna get scary big-time ' as they say in France ) . There still life in this bird yet and with the Scrooge McDuck universe still popular to this day then we might just see him return some time .
So much better second time around	Like 99 . 9 % of the Earth's population , I too think that the latter half of Jeepers Creepers was nowhere near as scary as the first . But this ' un maintains great suspense and excitement all the way through . Victor Salva's direction is kind of like M . Night Shyamalan gone nasty . This sequel is so much more of an in improvement over the original . Plus is has the benefit of being filmed in widescreen which captures the lonely rural landscape wonderfully . Set a few days after the first , The Creeper ( truly a great villain ) is still out on his feeding frenzy and this time he's set his sights on a bus full of High School Basketball jocks and cheerleaders . The bulk of the movie takes place on their broken down bus and manages to provoke the maximum amount of tension from this situation as possible . Kind of like what Joel Schumacher did with Phone Booth . In an interesting side story , Ray Wise ( who I will always remember as being one of the bad guys in Robocop ) plays a farmer out for revenge on the creeper with a truckload of homemade weapons . He makes for a great hero and you'll definitely be rooting for him . Also , The Creeper is so much cooler . The opening scene of him disguised as a scarecrow is wicked bad and gone are the ridiculous acrobatic stunts with him jumping over cars and stuff . Instead now the movie focuses on his impressive wingspan and flying skills . He also gets more screen time to show off his sinister personality , which can only be a good thing . Freddy vs Jason deserved to be knocked off the No . 1 spot only by a good movie . And this is it . Jeepers Creepers 2 has great action scenes and a macabre sense of humor . You must go see .
Fantastic , low-budget film noir	Red Rock West is a perfect example of how good a film can be with practically no budget . All you need is a smart script , good actors and loads of atmosphere . RRW delivers all these and more . Nic Cage plays an ex-marine , injured in Lebanon , who is down to his last 5 dollars after being refused a job on an oilfield because of his bad knee . He roles into Red Rock and is mistaken by bartender Wayne ( JT Walsh , not quite as his most menacing-but still evil ) for a hit-man from Texas . He pays him to kill his wife and make it look like burglary . Only when he gets there , just to check her out . She offers him double to kill Wayne . Cage just wants to get the hell out of town with his free money and leave the sparring lovers be . But a series of mishaps and setbacks results in him yo-yoing in and out of Red Rock , back and forth . Eventually this leads to a run-in with Lyle from Dallas ( a cheeky and somehow sympathetic Dennis Hopper ) , the REAL hit-man from Texas who offers to help without knowing he's making the plot more complicated . RRW never had a big release , thus most of it's audience discovered it on video or on cable TV showings . Viewing it in such a way might make it seem like a TV movie but it's bigger than that . The slick , slowly-timed direction , moody score and howling desert wind would have all made for a great movie in theatres but the best you can do these days is watch the DVD on a big HDTV . The only weak point of the movie I can think of is Lara Flynn Boyle's boring femme fatale with the nasty dyke-ish hairdo . I certainly wouldn't fall for her but if you assume that Nic Cage's character is in to militant lesbians then you'll accept it nonetheless .
Positively surreal Blaxploitation Bond	And none the worse for it , since every Bond film needs a fresh spin on the same old formula . Roger Moore's first outing as JB is , in equal measures , comical and action-packed . You'll never get bored . But it's definitely the weirdest Bond ever with loads of utterly bizarre moments . It begins with M turning up at JB's house in the early hours while he's pumping some Italian agent for information ( don't you just love his initialled dressing gown ) . Before sending him to America to investigate a Harlem pimp known as Mister Big he delivers some gadgets from Q-Branch , including a very useful watch . Q himself , or Major Boothroyd if you want to call him by his proper name , doesn't make any appearance in this one . Standing out like a Muslim in an airport , almost every single black person JB encounters in Harlem is on Mister Big's payroll . And they've got a seemingly endless bag of tricks to play on him . The funny thing about Moore is that he's very proper and British and doesn't think anything of walking into a tough Harlem bar while dressed up like the Duke of Edinburgh . His stunned reactions when they mess with his head are seriously funny . The action then moves to Lousiana and a savage Caribbean island as JB uncovers a massive heroin plot . There's a particularly long speedboat chase across a bayou where JB encounters Sheriff J . W . Pepper , the most stereotypical southern redneck ever . Think of Texas Businessman from The Simpsons and you get the idea . JB also gets to dodge a hundred hungry Gators and do , many times over , Solitaire , Mister Big's Tarot card reader . I'm not sure what kind of formidable villain uses a Tarot card reader to help him do business but when you also surround yourself with a hook-handed maniac called Tee-Hee , a quiet fat guy called Whisper and a seemingly unkillable voodoo high priest called Baron Samedi then you really do become a serious baddie . Right ? He even goes on a big speech about how his master plan works before attempting to kill JB slowly . Obviously this makes much more sense than just shooting him right away . When will they learn ? Despite being the oldest actor to debut as Bond ( at 46 ) , Moore does look younger than Connery . And while Sean was gruff and Scottish , Moore is perpetually calm and refined , even in the face of danger ( fingers being chopped-off , snake in the bath , being eaten by gators / sharks ) . Everything that the British once thought they were . He has a certain sarcastic edge that the other Bond actors lacked . While some of his films may have been the sillier of the franchise , Moore has always been my favorite . And the massive revolver and holster he uses at the end is so much more masculine than the usual , wimpy as hell , Walther PPK . And , as much as I am no fan of Paul McCartney , you gotta love that theme song ! Exciting and iconic at the same time . And also yet another juxtaposition in the weirdest Bond movie ever . MI6 , Harlem , Pimps , Paul McCartney , Gators , Heroin , Voodoo , Snakes , Sharks , Clairvoyance , Rednecks , Afros , Fake Afros , Fillet of Soul , Human Scarifice , Scarecrows and a small-headed man in a Top-Hat who lost a fight with chickens . Is this a Bond film or did the whole world just go insane ?
Jasper and Jinx ?	I prefer them to be called Tom and Jerry . This cartoon was made way back in 1940 and features the very first appearance of the troublesome twosome . Though they look rather different . I guess Hannah-Barbera didn't know , at the time , what a massive franchise they had in their hands . Puss gets the Boot almost seems like a one-off short . Granted , Tom and Jerry never really did anything else than chase , and that's exactly what they do here . It also features the Tom's owner ( or owners slave ) , the highly racist and so un-PC black woman with the stripey socks . This would never be allowed today unless in satire . How glorious the early 20th century was .
Great action movie	This movie worked best in the cinema . It's too bad it flopped because the big screen is where it deserved to be seen . Too many folks have seen and criticised this film from TV viewings that do the scope of the action no justice whatsoever . The action scenes are incredible and this movie is very well made . The bouncing , shaking , wobbling camera was an innovative idea and if you like the slow-motion fire-fights of John Woo movies but hate the gun pornography of trash like Bad Boys II then you'll get a kick out of Hard Rain . And the music was just totally awesome too . Chris Young's score is the orchestral sound of violence , mayhem and nature taking over . Seriously , it's great stuff and you really ought to get the score CD . Christian Slater also makes for a better action hero in this than he did in hard rain . Randy Quaid and Morgan Freeman were very good too but I don't think Minnie Driver did a convincing American accent . Don't be to hard on this film . It isn't supposed to be Citizen Kane . It's a pure action film with the minimal of plot to get in the way . It was originally called The Flood and had numerous other characters in it and had many daylight scenes . But because of an abundance of disaster movies at the time it was re-shot as an action movie that was set totally at night . And practically in real time too . Sadly the Region 1 DVD is in Dolby 5 . 1 and is letterboxed at 2 . 30 : 1 . It's not the best DVD of the film . If you have a multi-regional player then I suggest that you get the Korean Region 3 box set with a beautiful anamorphic transfer , DTS 5 . 1 and the script book included .
Encore !	In a departure from the usual household mayhem , Tom stars as a classical concert pianist . Dressed in a tailcoat and hammering out Hungarian Rhapsody Number 2 ( which you might recognize as the tune played by Daffy and Donald in Who Framed Roger Rabbit ) he is bothered by Jerry , who just happens to live inside the piano . Cue loads of tricks played on poor Tom , who is desperately managing to stay in tune as Jerry runs amok . This cartoon actually won an Academy Award back in the day and it's easy to see why . The editing and timing are dead on , as is the imagination . A lot of laughs to be had here and one of the best Tom and Jerry shorts .
Should have been better !	This movie has elements of potential greatness to it . If more were made of the Jim Henson animatronics and if it had stuck closer to the comic-book source instead of giving us a live action version of the awful ( let's be honest ) 80's animated show then it could have been a classic . Not what we get . The original black and white comics of TMNT were a-maz-ing ! The depth , the mythology , the subtext , the endless Lovecraftian allusions and the overall coolness of it is something so great I am sure it can never be done again . The 80's animated show was a travesty . We got robots instead of humans in the Foot Clan , the friendly Utrom aliens were made into a bad guy ( Krang ) , Rocksteady and Beebop ! , the Technodrome ! , underground drilling machine-thingies and those awful , awful surfer dialect words . Who can honestly NOT cringe when they hear ' Cowabunga ' , ' bodacious ' or ' excellent ' in this day and age ? The plot loosely matches that of the first issue of the comic-book . Only it's toned down and it's too heavily influenced by the TV show . The Shredder has a tamer ' death ' compared to the comic book ( he was thrown off a roof while holding a live hand grenade-BOOM ! ) . Though I am glad the Turtles ' origin is told in flashback instead of starting right at the beginning like so many other comic-book movies . Steve Barron's direction ( Merlin and erm . . . Coneheads ) brings some integrity to the film . I like the grainy and gritty look to some scenes and he seems to take the animatronics more seriously than the directors for the later sequels . Speaking of which , the animatronics are actually still quite good and if made today I'd still be impressed . The real human cast is a bit of a letdown . Judith Hoag is awful as April O'Neil , in the comics she was a lab assistant to the evil Baxter Stockman but the TV show inexplicably changed her to a News Reporter . That's what she is here . And the ginger kid who plays Danny is pretty bad also . However , Elias Koteas is totally brilliant as Casey Jones . I can't imagine anyone being more perfect in this role . The humor , minus the surfer drawl , is still funny . I especially like Raphael ( my fave-he has a BAD attitude ) coming out of a cinema showing ' Critters ' and saying ' Where the hell do they come up with this stuff ? ' And John Du Prez's ( who ? ? ? ) score may sound heavily dated in parts but it keeps the action scenes moving along nicely . The fights may look incredibly staged and false but at least they have a nice beat . It's still superior to the sequels and plenty fun . Just don't grit your teeth so hard at the silly , completely out-of-place and out-of-time surfer words and appreciate the darker tone the sequels ditched in favor of kiddie-friendly rubbish . The DVD gives a 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic transfer of the movie and it's very grainy and dirty ( as the film was shot ) but the Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack packs a loud punch with plenty of bass . Extras are minimal . New Line should re-release this as a Platinum / Infinifilm Special Edition . And just for the record , there will be NO 4th turtles movie . There was talk of it years ago but the guys who were interested in making it ended up choosing to produce the Bulletproof Monk movie instead .
Don't make me angry	Fate and destiny intertwine and connect in ways you can't imagine . What can two mass-murderers travelling across country possibly have to do with old crime syndicate grudge from almost 20 years ago ? The answer is a man called Tom Stall . An average family man living a quiet life in a peaceful country town . Had these two murderers simply passed on through his town instead of stopping at his café then hell would not break loose . It's a million to one coincidence , but life is like that . Tom responds with sudden , unexpected lethal force when the men try to hold up his café . And before you can say ' wowzer ' both men are dead with their guts and skull fragments all over the floor . Tom is hailed as local hero and his picture and story is soon all over the news . But gangsters watch the news too . And hideously scarred Carl Fogaty ( the very cool indeed Ed Harris ) recognises the pictures on TV not as Tom Stall , but as Joey Cusack . A man to whom he owes a serious ass-kicking . Carl and his goons promptly show up in town and quiz Tom over his new identity . Obviously he thinks they are crazy . All could have been okay if they just left , but their constant watching and hounding slowly brings back to life a side of Tom that died a long time ago . Without continuing to give away the whole plot , a major bloodbath follows . The violence is short , sharp , to the point and jaw-droppingly brutal . Just the way I like it . This is not some PG-13 kiddie's movie . A film condemning violence only to not show it in it's full , bloody gory glory would only be hypocritical . Tom does not like what he is doing . But when his life and the lives of his family are threatened , the only way to successfully respond is to put them bad guys down as quick as possible . There is no gun pornography or ballet-dancing here . The lesson of the movie is that a man can change . Violence will only lead to more violence and ultimately , when you really think about it , it doesn't solve anything . Yes , I know it's an old cliché but there are not many movies out there that make an attempt to prove it true . Cronenberg , in a change of pace from his usual body-horror and mind-games movies , directs with perfect timing and encourages flawless performances from the whole cast . It would be too much to call it Cronenberg's best work as all of his films have a lot of class to them , but it's definitely one of his most important .
Excellent for what it was	I only ever-played this game on the Commodore 64 and for an 8-bit machine the graphics and sounds were surprisingly very good . It was a bit like Saboteur ( 1984 ) ( VG ) in a way as you would control your little secret agent guy as he ran around in a massive industrial complex going up and down elevators , doing huge somersaults and dodging the evil robots while trying to solve a cryptic puzzle on a huge musical chess board and searching for clues . The baddie , who I never once actually saw during the game , was the outrageously named Elvin Atombender . Every now and again he was start talking to you or ordering his robots to zap you . It was mental . And the funniest part was definitely when you fell down an airshaft and the character would do that hilarious scream . I never actually finished the game as it was just too difficult ( it really did live up to it's name ) but it's still a cool game and recommended if you ever come across it .
Who doesn't like a love story ?	I must stress to you my belief in that the ' romantic comedy ' is pretty much the worst creation of mankind . Some may argue that religion or the atom bomb are more destructive but the romcom ( ugh ! ) is consistent proof that the public are idiots willing to fork over cash multiple times for the same old , same old crap . We very rarely get a sincere romance film , they kinda died out in the forties and have struggled for breath since . I liked A Walk to Remember a lot and felt obliged to check this out ( because it's from a book by the same writer ) . That obligation turned out to be quite rewarding as this sober , mature film was everything zillion dollar attempts to make us cry ( I'm subtly referencing Pearl Harbor ) were not . It's all about character and the guts and imagination to tell a good story . Noah is a simple 17-year-old lumberyard worker . He's cocky , arrogant but very good-natured and he quickly attaches himself to Allie , a girl from the city , from Old Money and a fussy family who condemn her relationship with Noah . This is all told in flashback as old Noah ( James Garner ) reads from his book of youthful memories . Yes , this part is nothing original but the conviction by the cast make it astonishingly real and believable . The performances all round ( but especially from Gosling and Rachel McAdams ) give The Notebook a strong edge over most attempts at romance . You can literally feel their urge for each other and are involved with them all the way . ' Will she or won't she ' plot lines have been done to agonising death so credit must be given Nick Cassavetes ( who you'll probably best remember as Castor Troy's bald pal from Face / Off ) for pulling it off so eloquently . I strongly recommend that you give The Notebook a try . Even if your a hardened 300-pound muscle-man who's afraid to love it's still worth it . But I must warn you , if your the kind of person who breaks down in uncontrollable crying at the end of Bicentennial Man ( err . . . ) you must know that The Notebook ends very similarly . So if your lip quivers easily , watch it alone . The DVD is in gorgeous-looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen that perfectly shows off the wonderful cinematography and warm color pallet of the film . The Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack is most unsophisticated but considering the nature of the film , that is to be expected . Extras include , 2 Commentaries by director Nick Cassavetes and writer Nicholas Sparks , 12 Deleted Scenes , featurettes on Cassavetes and Sparks , ' Locating The Notebook ' Featurette , Casting Noah and Allie Featurette , Rachel McAdams Screen Test and the Trailer .
Very funny !	In this Oscar-nominated cartoon , The Pink Panther turns up a the building site of his new house and replaces the boring blueprint of the ordinary house with an exciting pinkprint of a much fancier one . The single teamster working on the house is having none of it and sticks to making the boring house . The typical game of outsmarting and tricky follows but the gags and visual jokes that defy the laws of physics are all very imaginative and well done . For a six minute cartoon there are loads of laughs crammed into such a short running time . And the twist at the end is the funniest of them all !
The bird keeps birds	As I can't help nitpicking I do find it a little odd that Donald Duck , who is himself a bird , keeps loads of hens . In this cartoon he learns of the skyrocketing price of eggs ( there must be a shortage of hens then ) and rushes out to the barn to prompt them into laying loads of them with some upbeat music . But the barn Rooster has other ideas and insists that the eggs stay put . Why would Donald allow the Rooster to push him around so much ? And why would the Rooster really care what Donald does with the eggs ? It's not like he's going to be doing much with them himself . Despite these moans , the cartoon is very funny and Donald's irritable , persistent personality mixes well with the hijinks .
Surprisingly Good	And very funny . I can honestly say I seriously doubted I would like this film and I only went to see it because it was on and I was there . I'd never seen a movie with The Rock before or even watched any wrestling so I was kind of dubious as to whether or not he would be any good . In fact he was a great actor , full of personality and charisma , willing to make fun of himself and was great with the action . The Rock is definitely the next Arnie . Vin ( Donald Duck ) Diesel is the next Jean Claude Van Damme . Seann William Scott was also pretty funny in a rare NOT Stifler performance . As an actor he does have genuine talent that's usually wasted in low-brow teen sex comedies . The Rundown is a sort of Indiana Jones-lite movie . The Rock plays a bounty hunter / chef who is sent to track down Seann William Scott south of the border . Against his will The Rock ends up on a trek through the depths of the Mexican jungle looking for some ancient artefact . Unoriginal it may be but director Peter Berg keeps it moving with plenty of stunts , action and laughs . Christopher Walken's villain is a bit of a cardboard cut-out but how evil are you allowed to be in a PG-13 ? I look forward to the next movie starring The Rock . With talks of a third Conan movie I can only imagine him being the best choice . And keep a lookout for Arnie in the nightclub at the very beginning . ' Have fun ' is his only line . And fun The Rock will certainly have as the next BIG action hero . Keep a lookout for Scottish actor Ewan Bremner ( a zillion times the ' star ' Ewan MacGregor is ) in a funny role as a slob pilot .
At last a good Mickey short	This time Mickey is starring all on his own , with no back-up . And for a change he's actually got a good story instead of the usual ' disaster ' plots . In this cartoon , he plays a tailor who , through a series of misunderstandings , is sent on a mission by the king to take out a giant who is about to pound on their village . Princess Minnie is his reward so obviously he's going to oblige no matter how impossible that mission may be . Shock horror , there are actually some laughs and Mickey manages to hold our attention instead of making us drift away . The gimmicks and imagination are very good and the ending in which the villagers use the sleeping giant as a power source is very clever . Definitely one of the best Mickey shorts .
Big hairy monster	Bugs sleeps through a flood and is washed out of his Rabbit hole , down the river and floats by a spooky old castle . Unfortunately for him , said castle is the , not so subtle , residence of a mad scientist who needs a brain to put in his new robot . He chooses Bugs as that brain , but Bugs is having none of it . His escape is made difficult by the unleashing of that big , orange furball thing . How cute is it really ? Bugs pretends to be a camp hairdresser and fancy up Things hair . But uses sticks of TNT instead of curlers . Mere seconds later Thing has quit after Bugs shrinks him down to the size of a mouse using a magic potion . After breaking a ether potion both Bugs and the Mad Scientist go on a trippy chase that results in Bugs falling asleep and being washed away in the river again . He wakes up in his hole believing it all to be a dream . But the little Thing sez otherwise . An above average Bugs cartoon with the always lovable Thing .
And the band played on . . .	In this , first color , Mickey Mouse short , he stars as a music conductor at a country fair . His band are playing , in the most average way , The William Tell overture . It gets worse though when Donald ( playing a loudmouth ice-cream vendor ) comes along and muscles in on the band with his flute , playing a bizarre alternate take on the music and causing the band to stray off course . Mickey gets mad ( I like it when Mickey isn't always the clean-cut good guy ) and tries his best to silence Donald . Once that's out the way a bee torments each and every band member , causing further collapse of Mickey's conducting . Once Mickey turns the page on his music script a rather difficult segment of music ( called ' The Storm ' ) is revealed . How appropriate , at that very moment a twister tears thru the countryside . The band are so lost in their performance that they don't even realize they're sucked up inside a tornado . It's the highlight of the cartoon , with some truly inventive animation and technically brilliant for it's day . Mickey doesn't actually say anything in this one but his facial expression do all the acting . Like I said , I like it when Mickey isn't always the opposite of Donald ( IE not moody and easily frustrated ) and this is their pairing here in this cartoon .
Merry Halloween !	While the rest of the Peanuts gang are preparing for their usual Halloween rituals , Linus is busy writing his letter to ' The Great Pumpkin ' , a figure who is seems to be a cross between Santa Claus and Pumpkinhead who he believes gives Halloween presents only to kids that really deserve it . He is ridiculed by everyone apart from Sally who is the only one who will join him in the pumpkin patch . The trick-or-treating goes well for everyone apart from poor Charlie Brown who is only given rocks . That's probably what would happen to me if I went trick-or-treating as a child . Meanwhile , Snoopy dresses up as a WWI fighter pilot and pretends to be shot down behind enemy lines . But there's not enough of Pigpen , who is my favorite character . A great TV special indeed . Kids back in 1966 didn't know how good they had it . With all of today's CGI technology I guess we have forgotten that , sometimes , the simple stories and animation can be the most endearing .
The Great House Detective	After a double homicide involving a gentleman's club , Holmes and Watson are dispatched to a spooky castle on the west coast of Scotland to investigate . It appears that the victims were delivered five orange pips while at dinner with the rest of them before they met their untimely deaths . Already disbelieving the story , Holmes is viewing them all with suspicion as soon as he arrives . Like a typical Friday the 13th film , the bodies start piling up in increasing gruesome fashion and the culprit is narrowed down . But Holmes still ain't convinced and secretly builds his own theories and tactics . Again , House of Fear has the best kind of mystery atmosphere . I love the dark and spooky Scottish castle with the ever-howling wind and labyrinthine structure . I'd love to own a house like that . Watson comes across as a bit more buffoonish than usual but he still entertains . And despite reading the Adventure of the Five Orange Pips a few years ago I was still surprised by the twist ending . One of the best Rathbone / Bruce movies .
Wildly imaginative and funny .	I ain't no fan of chop-socky Asian martial arts movies . You could run off a list of any of the 1000 films Jet Li made before going to America and I'd say , ' Um . . . Kiss of the Dragon ? ' So , that's how bad my knowledge and devotion is . It was surprising therefore to discover that Arahan is actually a very funny and very exciting movie that zips along loud , fast and funny . Sang-Hwan is a lowly beat cop . He's clumsy , accident prone and bumbles more than the average bee . He doesn't believe he has any special powers , but when he makes friends with a group of five old masters , they recognise his potential and recruits him to help preserve the balance of the world from evil . . . or something . Which is great timing , because an ancient bad guy has come out of a long , long hibernation to seek the key to the ultimate nirvana and spread order over the whole world . . . or something . Yes , it's gobbledygook . In fact , it's alarmingly similar to Bulletproof Monk , only not total crap . There are loads of laughs to be had . Arahan has a great sense of comic timing and the ability to jump from silly gags to serious action in just a few seconds . When it comes to plain old hands-and-feet fighting , Hollywood movies seem to be lacking of late . It's all CGI and spandex . Eye candy it may be , but it's good to see something filled with practical fighting effects , despite the final showdown going on a bit . The one bad thing that costs it half a star is the nasty Eighties synthesised score . Doesn't Korea have anything better than those shoddy Yamaha keyboards that I used in music class in high school ? Hell , I could do better myself . You can criticise the film for being mindless - hey , just because it's subtitled doesn't mean it's artsy fartsy - but for two hours of fun , Arahan will do nicely .
Better than the last one	Scooby Doo and the Monster of Mexico was no doubt the weakest of the modern Scooby Doo animated features . Loch Ness Monster is a considerable improvement . This time the gang head off to Scotland to see the Highland Games and visit Blake castle , Daphne's ancestral home . And wouldn't you know , the castle happens to be in the ' quaint ' fishing village of Drumnadrochit , on the shores of Loch Ness . During their stay they meet a few interesting folks . First there is Fiona Pembrooke , a scientist who has drowned all of her money into finding the Loch Ness Monster . Sir Ian Locksley , the boss of the National Heritage Museum of Scotland , he is staunch non-believer of Nessie . The Haggarts , the own a cozy Inn on the shores of the loch . The sons are a couple of local jokers , always into mischief . Del Chilman , a wild , paranoid hippie dude who is convinced the monster is out there and will stop at nothing on find her . And finally , Duncan MacGubbin , the dock master who has seen Nessie too many times to count . Most of these characters are stereotypes , which gets a bit annoying as this is teaching younger audiences a load of crap and giving the wrong impression . However if you can immune yourself to it you'll be alright . Being from Scotland I can't help but wince at the awfully mimicked Scottish accents . Fact : We DON'T sound like that . Soon enough Nessie , looking rather more demonic than ' usual ' , shows up and causes havoc . Looks like the gang have another mystery on their hands . The usual chase scenes , clues and Shaggy's wacky disguises follow . There are plenty of laughs . The animation is splendid , with some atmospheric scenes and locations . And the plot a lot better than Monster of Mexico . The only bad thing this time around is the music . I miss Louis Febre's scoring and the songs here are pretty rotten too . Where are the Hex Girls when you need ' em ? The region 2 DVD is in crystal clear 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen ( the region 1 ain't ) with Dolby 5 . 0 sound . Some okay extras are included . Definitely worth getting .
Better than the first	Anyone who knows me knows how much I loathed the first movie . It was truly wretched . Though this one was surprisingly good . It had better ( or just less annoying ) characters that you don't want to die ( the first movie made the mistake of being populated with awful characters ) , more inventive death attacks and developed the idea of death having a design more interestingly . Clear Rivers ( Ali Larter ) is the only remaining survivor of flight 180 and has now willingly committed herself to a rubber room to escape death's shadow . But lets herself out into the world when learning of a new disaster . A teenager ( AJ Cook ) on a trip with her pals has a premonition of an incredibly violent freeway pile-up ( so more inventive than a distant boom in the sky ; the first movie's disaster ) and stalls traffic in her lane . Sure enough the pile up happens and all the drivers who she stalled should be dead too . So death begins to stalk them . But no one has any time for the warnings Clear Rivers has to offer and so death offs them in increasing gory fashion . It's lowbrow and pure popcorn fun but you'll definitely enjoy it . If only the first one didn't exist then this would be more unique experience . Still , buying this DVD would be cool because the 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture and the DTS 6 . 1 sound are incredible . Extras consist of Audio commentary , three documentaries , Deleted / alternate scenes , Infinifilm behind-the-scenes footage , and DVD Rom stuff .
Aw , shucks	Honestly , who in their right mind would turn down Charlie Dog ? He's so cute and lovable . And his desperation to be loved as much as he loves back just makes him even cuter . I would love to Charlie Dog as my pet . Why does Porky Pig feel such a strong resentment towards him ? You guess is as good as mine . After Charlie stowaways in a bird cage to infiltrate Porky's apartment this get out of control . The usual game of cat and mouse ( or dog and pig ) follows as Charlie takes to increasingly insane measures to prove to Porky that he's a loyal and trustworthy pet , far better than any bird . Unfortunately it doesn't work out in the end . But Charlie , I'll have you any time you want .
Loads of action , without the nasty violence .	The Transporter has oft been compared to the dreck that is xXx . And it always comes out on top . Why ? Well , both of them star a bald-headed man , cut to be the next big action star , and feature stunts galore , as well as babes , foreign locations and cool cars . But Mark " Silly Voice " Vincent is no more than a pile of ten-chinned , dolphin-faced , ugly muscle , who is out to show off and proudly wear the heavily Eighties crown of Action Hero upon his brow . Jason Statham , however , reeks class , cleverness and cunning . He keeps his cool and remains silent , whereas Vin Diesel would say something stupid in a silly voice . Also , Statham can actually act , which always helps . The plot is basic , but who cares ? It's an excuse for action . And when the action is this cool , what more do you want ? If it's pretentiousness , or delusions of grandeur , you're after , then go check out The Black Dahlia . The Transporter may be simple , but nothing feels mechanical . Frank Martin ( Statham ) is a retired SAS soldier , who has shacked up in the South of France . He works as a courier for the underworld and uses three simple rules to stay as impartial as possible in his dealings . One day , when a package starts squirming , he opens up a can of worms , breaks all his rules and ends up in big trouble with dozens of evil thugs , headed by the sinister Wall Street ( Matt Schulze ) . Much like Kiss Of The Dragon , also written and produced by Robert Mark Kamen and Luc Besson , The Transporter features our hero taking on impossible odds and winning . Legions of goons come after Frank but he has the awesome talent of genius fight choreographer Cory Yuen to rely on . Props and sets become improvisational weapons and the goons don't stand a chance . Just check out the container fight , or the bus barn rumble for evidence of this . Even the crazy opening car chase echoes Besson's own Taxi movies . And if you're a fan , au fait with his action output of the last few years , this won't disappoint . There are a couple of drawbacks ; it simply isn't long enough and the ending is too sudden , with not enough plot being wrapped . But compared to the awful sequel , I can forgive Transporter for it's follies .
Highly engaging and extremely hard .	Wow ! What an amazing game . You better make sure you get off to a good start and select the right characters and weapons for your quests because if you mess it up your in for a hard time . The gameplay is wonderful and never gets boring and the graphics are very detailed and atmospheric . The monsters and enemies can sometimes be a bit generic and it's not as gory as I would like it to be but this and the constant difficulty reduce this from a 5-star rating to 4-star . I would recommend that you have a Pentium IV processor and a decent graphics card if you want the best performance out of this game . And decent speakers would be appropriate for when you cast those BOOMING spells . Like most games these days this is designed for the most powerful and advanced machine . If you are fortunate enough to have one then buy this game to make the most of it . Even if you are not a big RPG fan the fun never ends . And neither does the game apparently .
What a view !	Okay , I'm going to lose a lot of fans by saying that I really liked Roger Moore as James Bond . He was the quintessential 007 . Timothy Dalton was the most realistic . Connery is overrated and Brosnan is just a show-off . I'm looking forward to seeing what Daniel Craig can bring to the character . However , by the time Moore got to View To A Kill , he was definitely looking like a tired old warhorse . There's enough fun in this instalment to balance it out , thankfully . Christopher Walken stars as Max Zorin , a purebred Nazi baby all grown up into a psychotic capitalist madman . He plans on destroying the key geological lock underneath the San Andreas Fault , resulting in a massive flood that will drown Silicon Valley , thus allowing him to corner the " chip market " . Throughout the course of the story , Bond involves himself in a number of set pieces and makes the odd joke or two . There's a neat scene of a Ruskie being chucked into a big fan , a memorable firetruck chase and the showdown on Golden Gate Bridge that is way cool . All the Bond clichés are here - the practically meaningless title , the encounter with the bad guy before there are any hard feelings , the bad girl who is either tamed or a double-crosser , the shy girl who is driven wild by Bond's double entendres and the gadgets which always seem conveniently to come in handy . Nothing's changed , huh ? If you're a fan of the contemporary Bonds , it might feel a bit odd going from smart-ass runt Pierce Brosnan , bedding the ladies , to a leathery 60-something Moore , bedding shrieking androgynous Amazonian Grace Jones for no apparent reason . That scene has always been rather uneasy on the eye . John Glen is a veteran of the world according to Ian Fleming . Nowadays , every movie is directed by someone else , in order to keep a fresh perspective . But they all look the same when there are no explosions , or car chases . And such scenes are directed by second unit , anyway . Glen keeps a balance between the plot and the action that is believable . The modern Bonds , especially the last two , seem to invent the set-pieces first and then think of some ludicrous storyline to tie them together . Of course , you can argue that ALL 007 movies are ludicrous and should be taken as nothing but total male fantasy . The believability has always been next to non-existent , but it's in the way that the story is presented that has the ultimate effect . Older Bonds were not about being loud , or having fancy effects . They were about a cocky Brit , who liked to sleep with as many women as possible , without having to worry about STDs , paternity cases or what M would have to say about it all . This is the mid-Eighties model and Moore's last appearance . He was certainly getting old , but was still cool enough . And look out for Dolph Lundgren , then Grace Jones's hunk , as a KGB heavy .
A show that could never be anymore	If The Trap Door were to debut in 2006 then it would be low-grade CGI crap with no atmosphere or icky moments . What does that tell you about the current crop of PC-trash children's programming ? As it is , The Trap Door was an icon of 80s children's television . ' ooever knew that plasticine models could be so effective ? But it wasn't just that . The castle that Berk and Boni ( and the Thing upstairs ) lived in was such a brilliant , atmospheric set . The ' owling winds , the dead trees and the constant dark and fog really did add a lot to it . Berk was some kind of blue creature and was also a butler / servant to the ever-unseen cockney-voiced Thing , ' oo would always complain about the noise or being ' ungry . Whenever Berk would turn his back an ' orrible monster would creep out of the Trap Door in the basement . The Trap Door led directly into the catacombs beneath the castle where an infinity of worms and diabolical nasties dwelled . They'd cause no end of trouble for poor ol ' Berk . You'd think he'd learn to keep it shut . The theme song , despite sounding very 80s , was pretty damn cool too . One particular episode devoted its entire running time to an extended version of it . But that's one of my gripes . The running time was only 5 minutes ( barely ) for each episode , which was a bit annoying since it always seemed to end just as it was starting . It only lasted for two seasons for some reason . But even though they only made a handful of episodes , The Trap Door has remained popular for over 20 years and that more than you can say for children's TV of today .
Hayfever ?	Some gardener is filling his land with rows upon rows of yellow flowers , but The Pink Panther , who is hanging around nearby prefers his own color and replaces them without the gardener knowing . This freaks him out and causes him to doubt his own vision . One by one he replaces all the pink flowers with yellow flowers , unaware that Pinky is right behind him replacing yellow flowers with pink flowers . It's almost identical to the Oscar-winning ' The Pink Phink ' from 1964 but it's so damn funny that I don't care . The gags are thick and fast and all the while Pinky maintains his trademark cool and doesn't miss the opportunity to get the last laugh in the amusing twist at the end .
Great sci-fi fantasy	I enjoyed the 80's version of Appleseed when I was a teenager and when I learned of the 2004 reboot I immediately went out and got myself a copy of the DVD . It was pretty damn good and figured that it was a one-off . But now we have this sequel which proves that there is actually loads of potential and imagination in the Appleseed universe and certainly enough to warrant further sequels . Denaun Knute and her mostly robotic , rabbit-eared boyfriend Briareos are still working for ESWAT in the Utopian future city of Olympus when a new personal device , a sort cross between a cell phone and a holographic visor , goes haywire and turns the population into a bunch of techno-zombies . Briareos suffers seizures of his own too and a duplicate of his old human form has been recruited to work with them and save the city from this mysterious evil . Yes , it's nonsense . But entertaining nonsense and a weird cross between Robocop , Star Trek : First Contact and The Matrix ] . But the animation is gorgeous and the story and action absurd enough to keep your attention . Come on , John Woo , give us another ' un .
Great film about relationships and character	From this excellent movie . Ang Lee perfectly and convincingly captures the look and feel of two dysfunctional families in 1970s rural America . The acting is so good that in some scenes you cringe when ignorant characters make fools of themselves . The film is split right down the middle . First of all we have the story lines of the two affairing families and second of all there's the story of their children's ' relationships with each other . Although Tobey Maguire does the voice-over on this film he is not really in it much but his scenes add some light-relief to a movie that is otherwise dark in tone . The only ( tiny , little ) gripe I have is that you never find out why Sandy Carver is a little strange . Or maybe you do and I'm just not concentrating enough . See this movie the next time you get a chance and it'll change your opinion of all those souless blockbusters out there that give you only visual effects rather than a real story .
Good Day	While the original Dawn of the Dead is , undoubtedly , the zenith of Zombie movies , I must admit ' Day ' is my favourite so far . It would be hard to follow-up Dawn with a superior film and Day met with much apathy on its release . Which really isn't fair . Shorter ( Dawn was extremely long ) and easier to swallow in one viewing , Day is brighter and clearer than Dawn ( naturally ) . Now the Zombies have total world control . There are very few survivors of the apocalypse . Once such group ( half Army , half government scientists ) have made a base in an abandoned Florida missile silo . The Army are a thoroughly unpleasant lot and there's no way to root for them . The scientists and nicer though and have better intentions . But the show is stolen by Bub , the tamed zombie . He's totally brilliant ! Wouldn't he make a great pet ? I even got a bit teary when he got his big scene at the end . Tom Savini ( sadly missing from the cast this time around ) does incredible work on the make-up and gore effects . The zombies look better than they did in Dawn and the bodies being ripped apart are about as graphic and realistic as you can get without doing it for real . For a low-budget film made 20 years ago it's astonishing how good Savini's work is . Dawn had a bleak ending tinged with the slightest bit of hope ( unlike the remake ) but Day has a calmer , more relaxed fade out . Stay alert for a few references to Dawn including a return of the ' Zombie March ' theme . This new 2-Disc DVD from Anchor Bay marks the 2 , 345 , 205th release of this film on DVD . But you couldn't ask for a better , more definitive version . The 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture has been put through Anchor Bay's Divimax process and it looks absolutely stunning and crystal clear . The sound has also been remastered into strong Dolby 6 . 1 , DTS ES sound . There are zillions of extras and actually worth your time too . The DVDs also come in an extremely cool digipack featuring the highly lovable Bub on the front . Bub rules !
Really Sweet	The peanuts gang are up to their usual mischief in preparation for Easter Sunday , but no one seems to be listening to Linus . He swears that the Easter Beagle will come and make the celebrations complete . Typically no one listens to him , he is little bit ' Ralph Wiggum ' remember . Though Snoopy ends up being that very Beagle , he's far too busy trying to help out Woodstock . The poor little bird is freezing in his cruddy little nest full of cold water . So Snoopy goes off to the mall ( already advertising Xmas goodies ! ) to buy him a bird house . With hilarious results . After much hijinks and endless trips to the mall for eggs ( Marcie keeps smashing them as she doesn't know how to do egg-painting ) Snoopy saves the day and proves Linus right after all . Sigh ! They don't make ' em like this anymore . I'll take Snoopy over Spongebob any day .
You can't keep a good guy down !	The Chucky films have had a curious consistency in the decline of horror and the incline of humour . Child's Play was played straight for chills . Yes , it was ridiculous but had a rather mean-spirited edge to it that made you forget how silly it was . Child's Play 2 was less savage but with a touch more humour . Child's Play 3 ( a film that had an unbelievably bad reputation thanks to moronic tabloids in the UK ) found the right balance between laughs and scares . Chucky was downright evil , but you began to root for him more and more because his one-liners and easily irritable personality became rather er . . . cute . Ronny Yu's Bride Of Chucky , while very gory , simply was not a horror film at all - an entertaining black comedy that was ridiculously over-the-top , yes , but not a horror . Now , fifth time around , series creator Don Mancini steps behind the camera , cranks the bad taste all the way up to eleven and delivers the most intelligent dumb film you've ever seen . The horror is non-existent but the gore is plentiful and the humour sicker than a syphilitic junkie . He rips out all the stop signs with such carefree abandon and directs with such hedonistic pleasure that you can't help pity other directors who take their own material far too seriously . The child born at the end of Bride Of Chucky ( voiced by Billy Boyd ) has been picked up by a gruff English new age traveller and made to act in a fake-ventriloquist circus show , thanks to his bizarre doll-like appearance . He knows he's not normal , suffers terrible nightmares of killing and slaughter and is eager to find his real parents . In Hollywood , a new movie called Chucky Goes Psycho , starring Jennifer Tilly , based on the Chucky urban legend is in production and when the young orphan sees a behind-the-scenes clip of what can only be his real mum and dad on TV , he escapes to Tinseltown to find out why they abandoned him . The obligatory chant to the almighty voodoo god Damballa resurrects Chucky and Tiffany , who are more than delighted to be together with their own child . Trouble is , they can't decide whether he's a boy , or a girl - a Glen , or a Glenda . However , the killer dolls are still keen to get out of their plastic bodies once and for all and be human again . Obviously Tiffany is partial to Jennifer Tilly's body and Chucky aims to switch places with rapper / actor / director Redman who is planning a new Jesus Christ movie . As you can imagine , many deaths occur along the way , much to the distress of Glen / Glenda . It sounds same-old-same-old , but let me assure you that Mancini crams as much daft humour and sick jokes in as possible . John Waters - the King of Bad Taste himself - has a hilarious extended cameo as a sleazy tabloid photographer who happens to snap a silhouetted image of Chucky hammering one off to a porno mag . How crazy is that ? Chucky himself is a wonderful comic character . You just can't help but love him . Don't you think that he and Tiffany make a cute couple ? He may be short but he's far scarier than Michael Myers ever was and his mere presence makes every scene a riot . Seed Of Chucky is not a film for everyone . You have to be pretty open-minded to endure the morbid humour , but it's the guiltiest pleasure you're likely to have for a long time . The self-aware Hollywood references never become intrusive and the convoluted story never becomes confusing . Still , as I have said , it's not easy going entertainment if you're a stuffy conservative . All fans of gore and brainless amusement must see . Oh , and in case you recognise the actor playing Jennifer Tilly's lawyer , that's Nicholas Rowe , better known as Young Sherlock Holmes .
An atmospheric thriller quickie	Peter Hyams ' remake of Richard Fleisher's 1952 The Narrow Margin focuses more on atmosphere and scenery than it does film noir . It does make for a cool , if a bit too short , movie . Gene Hackman is the loudmouth Deputy DA desperate to get a big daddy mob boss behind bars . And when a shy book editor witnesses a mob assassination he treks out to Middleofnowhere , Canada to drag her into court to testify . Problem's arise when the bad guys show up in the wilderness and blow the crap out of her cabin . A brilliant , rustic car / chopper chase down the sheer slopes of a mountain forest follows . It's a great scene with some cool shots and sharp editing . Once they reach the bottom of the mountain they find a train station and board the train for a private cabin . The bad guys follow , only they still don't know what their witness looks like . Many scenes of hiding and seeking make up the rest of the movie . It doesn't sound like much but Peter Hyams ' widescreen photography is used to the max to promote a sense of claustrophobia and even the quieter scenes are dominated by the sound of the train charging through the dark Canadian wilderness . One particular scene at Monashee Station really does take advantage of the ' middle of nowhere ' feeling . Bruce Broughton's score is kind of okay , but nothing as loud and exciting as the score he originally created . Peter Hyams disagreed ( as he often does with his composers ) and chopped up Broughton's work in post-production . Thus , the music in the movie is more of an underscore with much of the more action-based cues missing . I wish it did last longer and with more scenes on the train ( coz trains are cool ) but , for what it is , Narrow Margin is a tightly wrought thriller with Gene Hackman on top form as always and having fun playing the older guy in the suit who can still get into fights and car chases as if it were his everyday job . Filmed in Panavision the DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a Dolby 2 . 0 soundtrack . Though 5 . 1 would have been better there is still some surround use . The R2 DVD by Universal also has better cover art than the R1 .
Realistic and involving	This film is called ' Show me Love ' in the culturally repressed UK for obvious reasons . It is a really cool movie that I enjoyed a great deal . It focuses on 2 Swedish teenage girls and how they fall in love with each other but can't bring themselves to admit it . An assortment of awkward situations prevent that from happening too easily . The film is shot in 16mm with a hand-held camera that gives the film a documentarian look to it . It works very well . Together with the perfect acting this film doesn't seem like a film at all . It seems like an authentic slice of real life . Although not a strictly a comedy the film does have plenty of laughs and you cannot help but feel for the 2 girls . Because it is a foreign language film the release it VERY narrow . So check your local art-house theatre every week or hope that Criterion release it on DVD soon .
So cute !	I love the Tasmanian Devil . Isn't he so cute ? So what if he eats everything ! I found Bugs ' tricks rather cruel , after all a Taz Devil has to eat right ? In this cartoon , his first appearance , he comes across Bugs in his usual hunger rampage and wants him for dinner . But Bugs has other ideas and resorts to his old schemes and traps . Standard fare but funny and Taz is wonderfully hug-able . His TV show from the early 90's was terrible but as a character he is great . There are not a lot of Looney Tunes characters with so much potential as their own franchise but Taz is to Warner what Winnie the Pooh is to Disney .
Great TV show+Loads of potential+Cancelled = Typical	There was so much about The Dresden Files that appealed to me . I like noir-ish detective stuff and fantasy fiction . This show crossed them both perfectly and offered an interesting new story with every episode . So what do the execs at the Sci-Fi Channel do ? They cancel it . And it's not because the rating were low either . It was because they were not reaching the correct demographic . What IS the correct demographic exactly ? The show revolves around a wizard named Harry . . . Dresden ; a Chicago-based Private Eye . He helps out the police with their bizarre , head-scratching cases without ever revealing his powers . Armed with a hockey stick sceptre and a drumstick wand , his methods occasionally rouse The High Council , the magical governors who are always weary of Harry since he used Black Magic to kill his uncle . It can be accused to ripping-off anything from CSI , Buffy , Charmed or even Law & Order , but I think that The Dresden Files stood well on its own two feet . The cold , wintry ( often Xmasy ) feel to the show and the naturalised look sits well with the supernatural element and there is a dynamic range of characters . Though my favorite has to be Bob ( Hrothbert of Bainbridge ) , the ghost of a gentlemanly wizard cursed to live the rest of eternity inside his own skull when he's not helping Harry with his latest case . He's played by Terrance Mann , who you may remember as Johnny Steele , singing ' Power of the Night ' in the original Critters movie . I am sad that The Dresden Files never made it past a single series . But I will surely be checking out the books that they are based on in the future .
Well hello Dolly !	After being stuck in an evidence locker for 2 years , Chucky is freed by corrupt cop Bailey , sent by his girlfriend Tiffany . Officer Bailey is quickly offed and Chucky is taken home . He's in quite a state , but then so would you be if you were diced in a giant fan . Using bits off her massive doll collection Tiffany manages to bring Chucky back to life using another chant to the mighty Damballa . As soon as he's on his feet Chucky does yet another killing to get the circulation going . Tiffany is excited and can't wait to get Chucky into a human body so they can get hitched . But Chuck is dead against marriage and laughs in her face . Dejected , Tiffany locks him in a play pen while she blows off some steam . Not taking kindly to being locked up , Chucky breaks out and kills her by knocking a TV into her bathtub . Another chant to Damballa brings her back in the form of one of her many dolls . Angry with the loss of her nice , fleshy body and being stuck in a short , plastic one , Tiffany starts researching ways to help herself without Chucky's aid . Tough luck , the only way out is with the help of an amulet that was buried with Chucky's human body years ago . Conning a couple of local lovebirds , hick Jesse and well-to-do Jade , into driving them to the graveyard in New Jersey , Chuck and Tiff begin a cross-country killing spree , leaving a pile of dead bodies in their wake that the cops assume are the work of Jesse and Jade . Marital disputes between couples both flesh and plastic follow . Don't laugh , it's good ! The formula of Child's Play was wearing mighty thin by the end of the 3rd film and really needed a fresh new spin to keep it alive . Don Mancini struck the nail right on the head when he turned it into a post-modern horror . Remember , this was back in the days when post-modern horror was all the rage so it might seem just the tiniest bit dated now . But compared to the endless Urban Legend , Scream and I Know yadda yadda films Bride of Chucky seems to have the sharpest wit , the slickest direction and strongest production values . Director Ronny Yu gives us plenty of eye-candy and shoots the film with loads of darkness and deep blacks . A horror series like this needs technical superiority and imagination when it comes to direction and Ronny Yu soars over Jack Bender's mundane approach to Child's Play 3 . Composer Graeme Revell returns and delivers a more sophisticated , if slightly generic , score to those awful death-metal guitar / synthesizer cues to Child's Play 3 . His main theme from Child's Play 2 comes and goes briefly and he forgets the huge orchestral mayhem he did before . But he does introduce a very cool Twin Peaks-style love theme for Chuck and Tiff . An alright score overall that really should get a release on CD . Katherine Heigl is very easy on the eye as is Jennifer Tilly ( as a human ) . Plus it also features one of my favorite actors , the Late John Ritter , who died in 2003 . Margot Kidder's gorgeous niece Janet also has a small role and Kathy Najimy ( that's Peggy Hill for you King of the Hill fans ) cameos as a distressed Motel Maid . My only problem is that the film should have been longer , with a more satisfying ending . Chucky has done the Damballa chant so many times now that I just want to see it work for a change . In the DVD commentary Don Mancini said that the film originally had Jesse possessed by Chucky and that the final showdown had more to it . I would have liked to have seen this instead of the weak ending that wound up in the film . For such an elaborate and imaginative horror movie , Bride of Chucky goes out with a whimper instead of a bang . That said , it was still the best of the post-Scream horror films that surfaced in the late-90s and the best of the Chucky series . The subsequent Seed of Chucky was still pretty damn good , but felt like it belonged in a different genre .
Disney on ice	I'm always partial to the Disney cartoons set in winter with the quaint Victorian looks to the countryside and enchanting atmosphere ( such as 1935s ' On Ice ' ) . It looks brilliant here in this cartoon and I'm pleased to say it's one of the more inventive and clever Donald Duck shorts . This time round the irritable duck is skating around on a frozen lake when his nephews appear for a game of hockey . He shows off to them his hockey trophy ( kept in his jacket ) and brags about how he's the best hockey player in the world . As you can guess already , he gets too big for his boots ( err . . . webbed feet ) and Huey , Duey and Louie play no end of tricks on him . If only he would keep his big mouth shut once in a while huh ?
Blind Dated	This is one 80's movie ! Which is fine considering that particular decade gave us so much nostalgia . I just feel weird giving Blind Date 4 stars because , even though it's great , it does contain a highly distressing ' disco ' scene that will make you cringe . Walter Davis ( Bruce Willis in his first movie ) is a stressed workaholic who must bring a date to a business dinner to impress a Japanese client . In desperation his brings his sister-in-laws cousin Nadia ( a brunette , and prettier Kim Basinger ) who is very cute , but has a drink problem . Despite warnings not to get her drunk , Walter buys her champagne and , like some sort of human mogwai , she transforms into a crazed party animal . Things go very bad for Walter as Nadia proceeds to wreck his life . Not only that , but her totally mad ex-boyfriend David ( John Larroquette ) is stalking them at every turn . William Daniels ( the voice of KITT from Knight Boat ) even has a funny role as a disgruntled judge and the late ( great ) Phil Hartman plays Walter's brother . Filmmaking legend Blake Edwards ( The Pink Panther , Breakfast at Tiffany's ) is the man behind the camera . He brings a lot of class and experience to what could have been a generic romantic comedy . His widescreen compositions and long , moving camera takes add a touch of sophistication , it's a shame it just had to end up being so 80's . There are loads of hilarious moments and I suggest you pick it up whenever you see it . Just use 80's block factor 1000 . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with average Dolby 2 . 0 sound . A trailer is included .
Second movie ever ! ! !	Louis Aimé Augustin Le Prince filmed this epic the very same year he gave us Roundhay Garden Scene . Instead of his family walking in circles he filmed , as the title would suggest , traffic crossing Leeds bridge . And when I say traffic I don't mean cars , trucks and buses . I mean people walking a couple of guys who were lucky enough to have horses and carriages . Since Louis Aimé Augustin Le Prince was the ONLY director to release any films in 1888 it proves he was the best director of his era . He didn't need big actors or loads of effects or a computerized ape . Just a camera and a bridge . And he was the man who gave birth to cinema . Not literally , that would be hideous .
Not as cool as SF2 but cool enough	Even though I am a bigger fan of the FATAL FURY franchise than I am of Street Fighter I still recommend this to anime and video game fans . The quality of animation in this entry is quite stunning . A lot of time and care has been put into making this look like a work of art and some scenes and shots are definitely way past cool . The sound design is also more sophisticated than most other anime video releases . Stereo separation and ambiance comes through with clarity and more authority than you would imagine . The DVD sound great in 5 . 1 . The story is stronger than I expected but still not up to the standards of SF2 . The bad guy just isn't nasty enough or threatening . And the movie kind of suffers as a result . M Bison is barely glimpsed and he looks kind of different . Gile is completely absent . Vega is gone too . I wouldn't really say that this entry takes place in the same universe as SF2 , which is a shame because it was so much better than the live action movie . Ken and Ryu's friendship is mostly the same , tho that is where any similarity ends . But there is a whole animated series to back SF Alpha up , so if you dig it . . . there's much more .
Better than it's ever been before ?	Donald is now quickly learning the drudgery of the Army ( um . . . isn't this supposed to PROMOTE it ? ) . He's now singing his little song anymore and is quite miserable . His platoon are on some kind of marching mission . A long , long , long trek across valleys , mountains and deserts . He's last in line and is not coping as well as the other troops . And when they finally make a camp Donald misses out on supper because he cannot make his tent . It is rather funny and I always have sympathy for Donald when everything goes wrong ( then why am I laughing ? ) and the music is rather creative , making the most of beats , drums and the marching motif . Quite infectious .
Brilliant game with short lifespan .	The original Outrun is a timeless classic . It's one of those video-games that will last forever and it came out of the golden era of wonderful arcade innovations , along with Double Dragon and Splatterhouse . Outrun was the first great racer , better than Pole Position on the Atari ! ! ! There have been plenty of sequels and spin-offs to Outrun from the kinda okay Turbo Outrun to the just plain stupid Battle Outrun . None really had that extra spark which made the original so amazing . Outrun 2006 may not end up a classic but is still a brilliant game in it's own right . Rekindling that hedonistic , free-spirited , just - get - in - and - drive - anywhere feeling and sacrificing all the modern racing features for just sheer joyriding pleasure , Outrun 2006 is just such an easily accessible game for anyone . As usual it's filled with gorgeous scenery , brilliantly blue skies and amazing music . The classic ' Magical Sound Shower ' ( a great , great tune indeed ) has been remixed but it also contains the 1986 mix for the purists . The only negative thing I can say about this game is that once you've finished it 5 times ( such as I have already ) there's not much point in going back to the same old courses . They could have included more . Ah well , it's still a game you should invest time and money in . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
EQUAL SEQUEL	Gremlins 2 has a bigger scope than the first film . It takes place in Manhattan and deals with a lot more than the original did . The main difference is that Gremlins 2 is kind of a spoof of the first . With frequent references to it ( even by Leonard Maltin at one point ) and only 2 characters ( or 3 if you include Gizmo ) it's not really continuing the Gremlins story but using it to make fun of early ? 90s big city culture . There are a gazillion in-jokes and dozens of cameos all over the place . Including Jerry Goldsmith who's music is even better in this movie than in the first . It is such a cool and catchy little theme . I love it . The Gremlins seem cuter and funnier in this one . My fave Gremlin is Daffy , he's insane . The other main ones are George ( the frowner ) , Lenny ( the dumb one ) and Mohawk ( the one with the uh ? mohawk ) . And of course there's Gizmo . I wish so much that Mogwai were real because he's so cute and adorable . Rent this movie or catch it on TV . If you like it wait for Warner to release the DVD . The opportunity for extras and invention is endless . One last thing . Stay with this film until the end of the credits .
Splendiferous	The original Sabre Wulf was made for the ZX Spectrum and Commodore 64 back in 1984 . It spawned 3 sequels called Knight Lore , Nightshade and Underwurlde ( plus 2 further sequels that never got released called Pentagram and Mire Mare ) . Now arrives the 4th sequel , once again called Sabre Wulf . Sabre Man ( our hero of the franchise ) is now quite old but still has that spirited Indiana Jones / David Attenborough fondness for adventure about him . In this game he is camping in the forest outside of Blackwyche Village when the evil Doctor Dolittle-Goode sets the imprisoned Sabre Wulf free to wreck havoc up on the innocent citizens . Our hero jumps to the rescue . This is where we take over . The gameplay of Sabre Wulf is a mix of RPG elements and platforming action . As Sabre Man you wander all over a relatively large map covering locations such as Mount Knightlore , the Underwurlde Mines , Blackwyche village and docks and Karnath Jungle . In each of these areas are entrances into the 2D platform levels in which you must rescue treasure , useful objects or people from the Sabre Wulf using good animals to cancel out bad animals . For example the ' boomer ' is a small dragon that can blow up almost anything , the ' blubba ' is a fat bear you can bounce on to reach higher levels and the Bigfoot will give a nasty rock a kick to smash it . Obviously there are many more creatures to help you . Each level offers a learning curve . You must attempt the harder ones a good few times , memorising the dangers within , in order to complete them . It sounds repetitive but the gameplay is easy to pick up and totally addictive . The graphics look gorgeous , the sound effects just as good and even the music can be quite atmospheric and impressive when it's not busy being cute . There are some side missions to give the game a longer life when you're done with the Sabre Wulf too . Definitely a game that shows off what the GBA is capable of and one to look out for . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
Not so Itsy Bitsy	It's depressing to think about God-awful abominations , such as Men In Black II and ( wa wa wicky wicky ) Wild Wild West , making over $200million at the US box office and yet something as original and refreshing as this barely earning back its budget . Perhaps an autumn release would have suited ELF . But then any movie opening opposite MIIB and taking a portion of its audience is fine by me . While he may not be the best director in town , executive producer Roland Emmerich knows what makes a good movie and his hobby seems to be lampooning paranoid Fifties sci-fi . Think of Independence Day ( a War Of The Worlds update ) or Godzilla ( another radioactivity created monster ) . Do these movies want to be taken seriously ? No , of course not . They were made to entertain and that they do with reckless abandon Eight Legged Freaks is another take on Fifties paranoia . Don't mistake this for an Arachnophobia clone . ELF does not make the goof of creating small monsters . They are massive . The cause for this mutation ? Radioactivity . Only , when these suckers bite you they won't turn you into Peter Parker camping it up in a bad Sam Raimi movie . David Arquette plays goofball Chris McCormick , who returns to his hometown of Prosperity , Arizona , only to find it on the verge of bankruptcy . The only chance the town has of making money is to agree the storage of toxic waste in the abandoned gold mines . The shady mayor - is there any other kind ? - is already in league with the chemical companies . But unknown to anyone , a rogue barrel has somehow ended up in the lake . Tom Noonan makes a cameo appearance as the weirdo Spider Farm owner , who feeds his little babies food caught in said lake . A couple of weeks later . . . BAM ! ! Spider City . Ellory Elkayem's feature debut is an expansion of his short movie Larger Than Life . He handles the far-fetched hokum very well and with a constant sense of humor - the cat being eaten off-screen is hilarious . It's weird that a film with a 12 / PG13 rating can get away with so much death . Many , many extras are offed by the ELF , which squirt multi-coloured puss and goo everywhere when they are squished . Perhaps the movie's only failing is that it kills off too many innocent people . While not graphic , there's no big fun in human death . The script is better than you would expect . There is enough character , situation and invention to elevate beyond its roots . It's hard to pull off a B-movie making fun of B-movies , but ELF ends up being a better film than mainstream crud , such as Minority Report or Reign Of Fire . Think of it as Tremors with spiders and having the imagination of Gremlins - only better . Plus , it stars Kari Wuhrer ( oh baby ! ) .
I hate Brad Pitt but I like this movie .	After the abysmal failure of Alien 3 , David Fincher held his breath for three years and made a new start with Se7en . His signature style of direction is all over it . The plot explores the extreme pitch-black side of the human psyche and was entirely the creation of one writer . Andrew Kevin Walker , a former Tower Records employee , conceived , in hell , a heinous story of a serial killer who offs his victims in the style of the Seven Deadly Sins . What was he smoking when he came up with that idea ? Brad Pitt plays David Mills , a semi-experienced detective who is way ahead of himself . He uproots from a decent precinct , dragging his suffering wife ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) with him , to transfer to the worst in town - an unnamed , rainier-than-Glasgow Los Angeles - for no other reason than " to make a difference " . Good luck . Morgan Freeman is William Somerset , the most jaded and world-weary cop on the force . He only has a few days with Mills before retiring to a simple life in the country . Mills could learn a lot from him , and if he had any sense , he would . Sadly , this does not happen . In Fight Club , Fincher exposed the rotten underbelly of a free society , the seedy flipside of American culture that most people pretend doesn't exist . Somerset says the only way to deal with a world this bad is to be apathetic . Mills is morbidly self-confident and believes he can make the world a better place . Se7en is filthier than a dead stray dog at the bottom of a New Jersey toxic waste dump . It looks so miserable that people nailed to crosses seem happier . Few scripts make for good reading , but Andrew Kevin Walker's writing is one of the film's many strengths . He explored dark , character-driven horror / drama in shockers such as Brainscan and 8mm , but this is the meanest - and 8mm was very mean indeed . The irony of each victims ' death is made entirely justified by the killer's logic behind the madness . Of course , he does not believe he is insane . Just the world he lives in . Haven't you ever felt like that ? It is important for such movies to have an atmosphere and Se7en is so rank that you can smell it . Pitt and Freeman deliver great performances , although Pitt should learn to breathe through his nose and not have constantly pursed lips . It becomes quite annoying . Se7en is definitely the film that kick-started Fincher's career . Had he made The Game right after Alien 3 , there would have been no Fight Club , or Panic Room . For that tiny minority who knows nothing of the film , it's high time you checked it out . Even if you don't enjoy , you cannot deny its power and effect .
The best story	King Arthur movies are a dime a dozen . Not only do we have this , but also Merlin , Excalibur , Lancelot and Guinevere , Knights of the Round Table , Prince Valiant , Merlin of the Crystal Cave , Quest for Camelot , the awful First Knight and the apparently even worse ( and imaginatively titled ) King Arthur . Mists of Avalon is the best I've seen so far . After the rather childish Merlin and the just plain weird Excalibur I was pleased that this film was more grown-up and with better characters who you can actually connect with . I've not seen Julianna Margulies in anything else aside from Out for Justice ( yay ! ) and Ghost Ship . But damn , she was totally gorgeous as Morgaine , a character previously portrayed as a villain . Though I have the book by Marion Zimmer Bradley , I have not yet read it ( I'll get round to it ) . But I can tell you now that her version of events tells it from the point of view of the women and how their conspiring and unloyalty brought about the end of Camelot . For a legend with so many incarnations this angle was quite refreshing . It's far from a woman's film though . It does , however , a lot of love story in it . But it's the kind of love story where you know what the characters are thinking and what they feel rather than just something rudely stapled on to appeal to the women . Mists of Avalon is also wonderfully shot and has many scenes of unique atmosphere . All of this , obviously , is backed up by Lee Holdridge's utterly beautiful score . A dozen great themes and moods played out to various emotions . Definitely one of the best scores ever , methinks . Like I have said , there are loads of movies to choose from regarding this legend . But Mists of Avalon is the best I have seen so far . So I recommend that you choose this ' un . The DVD is in great-looking 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . Some slight extras , including deleted scenes , are on there too .
Very odd , but very cool .	As a successful director of kid's films , Don Coscarelli felt like moving into horror . But he was out of ideas so he shut himself in a mountain cabin for a few weeks and dreamt up Phantasm . God only knows what he was smoking or drinking in order to conjure up a story like this . I've been watching it for over six years , trying to get my head around it . But like the most complex of David Lynch films , there are still some parts of the puzzle that are too warped to fit . Mike and Jody Pearson are two brothers living in small town California . Their parents have recently died , leaving twenty-something Jody in charge of 13-year-old Mike . But Jody is restless and cannot stay cooped up in such a small town for long . Mike dreads that Jody will dump him with an aunt or uncle and disappear beyond the horizon . But that's the least of his worries for the moment . Jody's friend has mysteriously committed suicide and after his funeral Mike , hiding in the bushes , sees the undertaker , a sinister Tall Man , heave the coffin out of the ground all by himself and dump it back in the Hearse . Knowing something ain't quite right about all this , Mike investigates the funeral home and is attacked by hooded dwarfs , flying killer chrome spheres ( inspired by one of Coscarelli's nightmares ) and is chased by the Tall Man . He gets away but loses a shoe and hacks off some of the Tall Man's fingers for proof . It's not an ordinary finger , it oozes some kind of yellow puss ( embalming fluid perhaps ) and still pokes around on it's own . Convinced of supernatural interference , the brothers team up with their Ice Cream vendor pal Reggie to kick the Tall Man's head in . It ain't that easy I'm afraid and the film turns from weirdo horror into positively strange sci-fi as the trio discover more and more inexplicable activity going on at Morningside Cemetery . The film doesn't have many faults . But it is quite frustrating seeing the characters do no more than go to the cemetery and go home , then go to the cemetery and go home for , more or less , the entire running time . Don Coscarelli shot about 3 hours worth of footage and only ended up using half that . There are loads of fun scenes left out that , while not essential to the film's plot , could have kept things more balanced . The total 70s feel is a major plus though . Man , I wish I were a kid back then . The big hair , the flares , the cool cars , the loose women and the funky music are all part of this film . The hip 70s score is also incredibly funky and spooky at the same time . Once you start humming it there's no stop . It's also very different from the typical 70s horror formula . There are no masked killers , no women being chased through the woods and no slasher fodder characters . Mike , Jody and Reggie are bold and decisive and choose to fight instead of running and hiding . The setting of rural California is also a refreshing change from medieval castles , hick villages or haunted houses . Angus Scrimm , who plays the Tall Man , is no doubt the film's best asset . He hardly says a word but he OWNS every scene he's in . His physical presence and menace makes him a damn cool horror villain and he ought to be as iconic as Freddy or Jason . No matter what way you look at it , Phantasm never makes complete sense . You can turn it upside down , inside out and back-to-front and you might be able to work most of it out , but there will always be one thing that sticks out . Don Coscarelli claimed he wanted it to be open-ended and ambiguous as a way of not having to make any sequels . That tactic didn't work .
A Royale without cheese .	CR is a major step-up from the flamboyant Die Another Day . Obnoxious 50-something runt Pierce Brosnan has been replaced by a young Daniel Craig , there is no Q , no campy gadgets , no silly naked women silhouettes in the opening credits , no world-dominating super-colossus villains , no Miss Funnyfanny ( or whatever ) and no silly one-liners after killing bad guys . Basically everything that can date Bond film very quickly is gone . I never expected international espionage to look the way it has in past few Bond outings and I'm glad someone had the balls to go back to the hard-edged nature of the series , last seen in Licence to Kill . The longest Bond movie so far , at 145 minutes , but it breezes by even though it reigns in on the normally excessive action scenes and depicts spying a more ' mundane ' and ' realistic ' manner ( or at least as true as the series has been so far ) . But the one-thing that bugs me about action movies , particularly the Bond franchise , is that they are , most of the time , childish male fantasies with an indestructible hero who has fun shooting up the place and beds beautiful women . I would like something new for a change but CR does have Bond get hurt and go through more pain than he has previously . Daniel Craig has been given a lot of hassle over his casting as Bond ( like Clive Owen , Jude ' Mr Pretension ' Law or 10-year-old girl masquerading as a grown man Orlando Bloom WOULDN'T have been a big mistake ? ) but not only does he have his youth as an advantage ( he's the first 30-something to be cast in the role since Lazenby ) , he's also pretty damn trim , has the intensity Brosnan lacked and is surprisingly loose in a role that usually requires actors to be stiff and unemotional . It's also good to a fresh face in the role and who cares if he is blonde ? Or the shortest actor to play him so far ? I would have preferred that composer David Arnold went too . They didn't seem to be holding back on the amount of regular production team members who got axed . Even Vic Armstrong didn't return . I've never liked Arnold's work on the movies and I hate to think of it as something that's now exclusively HIS baby . But the theme song was cool , despite the criticism and it was cool to have the Bond theme at the end instead of some tacky song . I just wish the product placements would go too . Nice try attempting to ' subtly ' plug Blu-Ray Sony . But it ain't gonna work on me . Now that the franchise has a different outlook , I hope some of Ian Fleming's more downbeat , not - exactly - blockbuster - material Bond stories can make it to the screen .
BumbleBee Tuna	If there was to be just one pop-culture character with ' franchise ' written all over it , it would be Ace Ventura . After the sleeper hit that was the original , Ace is shipped off to Africa , via Tibet , to find the missing sacred animal of the peaceful Wachati tribe . It is supposed to be a wedding gift to the savage Wachutu tribe , marking the congregation of their people . Ace is the best there is ( the only there is ) surely sending him to find the sacred bat ( his most hated creature ) is the ' right ' thing to do . No matter how crazy he is . And how crazy indeed ! This time around Jim Carrey goes completely wild as Ace . Any trace of an actual human that we saw before is surrendered to complete insanity . You can tell that Carrey is having the time of his just ad-libbing and winging it . You can almost hear director Steve Oedekerk struggle to contain his laughter off-camera . There are even a few moments when Carrey himself almost cracks-up . I prefer this one to the first for a few reasons . First of all the production design is far superior and the faux-African jungle and tribal village colors really come alive . The widescreen photography gives the film a more expansive look than Tom Shadyac's original . Plus , it has a lot more animals , which I think is cool . Beside's the animated show , there's been no more of Ace Ventura since . But don't rule him out . Carrey may be sick of being regarded as the guy who made his anus talk , but I can only hope he'll do a third one day .
Heh heh	Easily one of the worst soldiers the Army has ever seen ( judging by his previous cartoon hijinks ) , Donald is dropped out of an airplane and right into enemy territory . That's somewhere in the Japan jungle actually . The air is ripe for typical wartime xenophobia as things go wrong for poor old ducky right from the start . He sniped at by stereotyped Japanese soldiers and runs for his feathered life . The funny thing is , while running he tries to escape on a rubber raft . But the raft gets caught under a waterfall and fills up with river water . Soon it becomes a massive waterballoon and Donald running for his life once more , tho not from the ' Japs ' but from the impending doom of a mile high water balloon . It's very funny and highly inventive . Definitely one of Donald's better wartime efforts .
Very Xmas-y	This cartoon probably works best around the holiday season . It's very busy animation indeed as most of the Disney favorites go ice skating on a frozen river ( ! ) . Mickey impresses Minnie with his skating acrobatics , Goofy ( dressed in awful hillbilly gear ) tries to fish using tobacco instead of worms and Donald torments poor old Pluto by sticking skates on his paws and watching him fall all over the place . Donald soon gets what he deserves when a huge gust of wind takes him and his kite / sail thingy off the edge of the waterfall ( which mysteriously has not frozen even though the river has ) . Mickey tries to rescue him but succeeds only in humiliating Donald further . But he did deserve it this time . A very cozy cartoon for Xmas time .
Too over-hyped , judge it on it's own level	This film has been harshly judged . It is a low-budget film school experimentation and I am going to review it with that in mind . Artisan really did hype this film up a lot and people judged it like they would any other movie . We all know the plot . 3 campers get lost in the woods while making a documentary about the force that eventually kills them . With the minimal of money the makers , of this over-exposed movie , create a good deal of tension and raw excitement . Of course there are a few logic errors but I'm kind-hearted enough to see past that . Although this film is shown on a 1 . 85 : 1 screen in the cinema the entire movie in is 1 . 33 : 1 because it is all shot on video . The photography may be jumpy but it didn't make me seasick like it did to some people . It is a little strange to film everything that is going on but if they didn't there would be no movie . If Jaws made you feel afraid to go in the water The Blair Witch project will make afraid to go wandering in the woods . One last thing ? it's not a true story .
I liked it at first , but I do not like Lohan at all anymore .	I knew nothing of this movie before I saw it . In fact I only went to see because I have a crush on Lindsay Lohan and I really liked her in Freaky Friday . So it was quite a payoff when it turned out to be quite fun film and nothing like the dreadful teen comedies we've suffered too much off in the past five years ( making love to pies , losing ones ' car and certain Scary Movies ) . The story has Cady Heron go through her first day of school . . . at sixteen . She's been homeschooled all her life and lived with her parents in the African bush . She has known nothing of the deceitful , backstabbing and ugly world of high school . Upon arrival she makes friends with a level-headed goth and a fat guy gay . They instruct her on who is naughty , nice and full of vice . The ' in ' group of the school are ' The Plastics ' ( because they're so fake ) , a trio of cheerleaders who make everyone's life hell . The leader is Regina George , the nastiest girl in the universe and at her side and the dumb and airheaded Gretchen Wieners and Karen Smith ( played by the impossibly cute Amanda Seyfried ) . In order to take them down Cady must become one of them . She takes great pride in ruining Regina only to take her place . Much like Arnie did in Predator , she became a monster in order to destroy a monster . With loads of observational humor and satire , Mean Girls ends up being a very intelligent movie , sort of a ' Clueless ' that's not so nineties . A lot of attention is paid to character and performance , not something hastily thrown together and chucked out there . Originally it ended up with an R rating and had to be toned down . I would have loved to see that cut of the film . Another interesting thing is that I've always though Lindsay Lohan looked like the character of Ginny in Friday the 13th Part 2 . So it was weird when the movie was featured in Mean Girls and had Cady startle her pals watching it by bursting through the door as soon as Jason bursts through the window . I will probably buy this on DVD when it comes out and I suggest you see it on the big screen . My showing was pretty packed and everyone seemed to enjoy it a lot .
Not so scary .	I love the big hairy monster guy . He might not have any arms but you just want to hug him , even tho he won't hug back . The Doctor guy who owns him however , HE is scary . With a grotesquely over-sized head and massive eyes he makes Stewie Griffin from Family Guy look normal . There's always some insane reason for Bugs Bunny to wander into his castle and get involved in a chase and that's exactly what happens . However , in the end Bugs and the monster become pals and the evil doctor gets what he deserves . It's been done before and this cartoon is only one version of this same old plot but it's still very funny as anything with Bugs Bunny is . Daffy is still my fave tho .
Grips you like a vice . Hits you like a ton of bricks .	Before you watch this film , just be aware that you're not going to walk away from it with a big smile on your face . More like you'll want to slit your wrists . To say that Mr . Vengeance is a powerful , gut-wrenching nightmare is like saying that DaVinci merely dabbled in art . The plot is so simple yet so complex . The direction is so elegant yet so hard-hitting . The simplistic nature of the story makes the descent into hell so shocking and captivating . You don't realize there is no going back until it's far , FAR too late . Ryu is a deaf / mute who works in the loudest factory in the world , doing a really depressing job . His sister needs a kidney transplant , but they don't have the money to pay for it . He cannot give her one of his own because their blood types do not match . Ryu decides to go to black market organ traders to trade one of his own for one that matches his sister . Waking up naked and kidney-less in an abandoned building he now needs to raise money for his own kidney . Ryu is now fired from his job by President Park , who is downsizing the company . His anarchist girlfriend Yeong-mi convinces him to kidnap Park's daughter and hold her to ransom . From then on , things get very , very , VERY heavy and the idea of who exactly Mr . Vengeance is is blurred and sympathy is felt for almost everyone . Revenge comes at a high price and seemingly never ends . Not that I am saying forgiving and forgetting is the way . But this movie will make you think twice about getting your own back . The violence is spontaneous and extremely graphic without ever feeling exploitational . Sometimes it has a darkly comic feel to it , the rest of the time it's goddamn hardcore . You'll wince a great deal during this movie , that's for damn sure . Park Chan-wook directs with such beautifully composed images that are far from the the garish MTV-style action / thriller movies produced in Hollywood these days . I don't want to sound like some sort of snob who proclaims all foreign films to be great and all Hollywood to be crap but it's not very often that Hollywood makes a film like this unless it's a remake . Written in a mere 20 hours in a single massive , creative outburst , this movie seems to have genius laced through every minute of it's running time . Not a date movie , not a whogivesadamn pig-out movie . Sympathy for Mr . Vengeance is a film you will be sucked right into and you'll be far from happy when you emerge at the end . But what a horrific ride !
Don't bother with the arcade versions now .	The Metal Slug arcade machines are notorious for being unbelievably hard . It's not uncommon to find yourself feeding well over $10 into a machine just to finish the game . Multiply that by 7 and you might come close to even $100 if you are playing with a partner . Instead , invest your dough in the Metal Slug Anthology . The games are perfect arcade emulations and you get infinite continues . They are still very , very hard and you'll never finish a single level with all of your stats intact , but it's a fun ride nonetheless . Some of the games can be a bit samey and you'll finish them all in about an hour . But for chaotic , button-bashing mayhem with loads of explosions and firepower , you can't go wrong with Metal Slug . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
Action-packed !	This first sequel in the Metal Slug series is every bit as furious and chaotic as the original . This time you can play as one of four characters across the usual variety of wonderfully detail and humorous landscapes as you blast seven shades of excrement out of enemy commandos . There are explosions and laughs galore as you battle your way through 6 stages teeming with baddies . The level are a bit more eccentric this time with mummy's tombs and giant killer whales popping up . The finale even throws in an unexpected twist when you have to team up with your enemies to fight off an alien invasion , complete with and ID4 rip-off / homage ending . Play this in the arcade and expect to be sent home penniless with your fingers all blistered .
An perfect game of Cat and Mouse	In this Oscar-winning cartoon ( a fact that they're modest enough to mention in the opening credits ) Tom and Jerry wage war on each other in the basement of a house . Using household objects as weapons in a variety of imaginative ways , they advance and retreat on each other , desperate to win their mini-conflict . I suppose this was one of MGMs entries into the pro-WWII cartoon efforts that Disney and Warner seemed to be having a blast with . It's got a very patriotic feel to it and makes war out to be fun . I have no problem with this kind of propaganda at all , but I am surprised that PC-thug groups haven't forced outrage over this , since their lot have ruined many other Tom and Jerry cartoons . Maybe their so blinkered that they cannot really see the subtext . Anyway , it's a surprisingly good cartoon and really did earn the Academy Award it was honored with .
Dark and Doomy	Tim Burton has a good eye . The Batman series from the 1960s is how people tended to think of Batman pre-1989 but this engraved the words ' dark , sinister and Gothic ' in the minds of audiences . The original material is respected and the characters are deep instead of campy . Michael Keaton is the best Bruce Wayne . When he plays both Bruce Wayne and Batman you have to watch what he doesn't say and doesn't do . He's a rich , socio-phobic megalomaniac who has more money than sense . This is very different from Adam West's turtleneck playboy . Jack Nicolson is a great Joker too . The make-up for his character is funny when you first see it but when you think about it more it's REALLY freaky . Nicolson's Joker is an evil lunatic . Nothing like Caesar Romero's campy , hop-skipping-and-jumping villain . The design of Gotham City is very original and unique and is very much in the style of the Comic book . The smoke-blackened , cramped and claustrophobic 1920s buildings look and create a very oppressive atmosphere . This is definitely GOTHam City . Not LA like the TV series . They didn't even make any attempt . In fact the Batcave in the TV series was like the set of a mad scientists lab from a 1950s movie . But the REAL Batcave in this movie is a monstrous cavern filled with stalagmites and it actually HAS bats in it . And there's no fireman's pole leading into it . This movie and its sequel rock big time . See it when you can . Preferably in widescreen and on a big TV .
Seagal proved he still had it , then flunked out again	A lot of you may consider Steven Seagal's non-presence for the past 4 years a blessing ( he last appeared in 1997's Fire Down Below , which was a No . 1 hit but still weak movie ) but I think that audiences are just too dismissive of him and that he needs to be given another chance . They waited for him to slip up and as soon as he delivered a flop We called him names and forgot about him . But now veteran action producer Joel Silver has thrust Steve back in the limelight , put him on the Slimfast diet ( it really , really works ) and given him better material to work with . After all an actor can only do as good as the script . From a novel of the same name by John Westerman ( but bearing about % 40 resemblance to it ) the plot centres on Orin Boyd . A cop busted down to Patrolman after a rough encounter with the Vice-President ( Gore ? Cheney ? ) . Once on the streets Boyd's suspicious nose can't keep him out of trouble with undercover cops who are trying to bust local Drug Boss Latrell Walker ( DMX ) ? or so it seems . Boyd smells foul play and intrudes upon a stakeout , handcuffing TK , one of Walkers men ( Anthony Anderson ) to the front of his car before doing so . When he returns to find the front of his car missing and the thug long gone Boyd takes it upon as his responsibility to get it back and inadvertently expose a ring of corrupt cops in the process . After all his car comes first . There are many attempts at irony throughout the movie and surprisingly enough most of them work . Boyd is forced to attend rage control classes in which he meets eccentric TV host Henry Wayne ( Tom Arnold ) who becomes his wannabe partner . But sadly enough the classes don't work as Boyd continues to uses violence first , ask questions later . And there is a public service announcement too . Seagal survives a car wreck by airbag . A later car crash victim ? doesn't have one and dies ? I think . There are only a couple of ' cop movie ' clichés but not much else . The bad guys aren't too hissable either although they do stink . And it's a pity we know who they are as soon as we see them but this was never intended to be used for suspense in the first place . But they really do stink the place out . You WANT them to die . Bartkowiak's direction is better than in his debut Romeo Must Die and adds a heavy dose of frenetic rush to such a fast-paced film . Action scenes are handled with experience and care . There is no MTV-style editing and no confusion to be had . He should have spent just a tiny little bit more time with the characters . It's not often that action movies have such strong characters and Exit Wounds does give us enough of them . Seagal has learned a little , just a little , more in the acting area but still doesn't know how to express himself much . There's too much frowning and not enough other emotions from Boyd . We do want to feel more from him but he won't allow us . I guess this is just how Seagal is . He just can't get away from himself too much no matter what role he plays . I wish Seagal would try harder . He'll win more fans this way . But it's good to see that he is in better condition than of late and has proved to Hollywood that he is still here and still frowning . Sadly he has chosen to star in loads of rather poor Asian movies since ( the real-life . Mob forced him into this ) and as we all await Under Siege 3 we don't hold our breath .
What have you done for me LATELY ? ? ?	There was once a day when everything Eddie Murphy said and did was hee-larious . Back in 1987 , at the height of his powers , Eddie released a movie version of his stand-up act Raw , a sort of follow-up to 1983's Delirious . Film at New York's Felt Room , Eddie discusses Mr T , Bill Cosby , Richard Pryor ( doing faultless impressions of all ) , Johnny Carson's costly divorce , relationships , gays , a home-made McDonalds burger that ruined his childhood etc . It's all pure comedy gold . After about half an hour you'll realize that the reason your face hurts so much is because you're smiling too hard . My favorite moment has to be any impression Eddie does of the average white guy , especially the ' white dude dancing ' moment . Where did this Eddie Murphy go and who is the man that gives us kiddie drek such as Daddy Day Care and Haunted Mansion ? If you need a major dose of Eddie in his prime then check this one out . I promise you'll love it and you'll be quoting it for days . Look out for a youthful Samuel L . Jackson and Basil Wallace as Eddie ' uncle and dad too .
A well above average porno DV	This DVD starts off with the gorgeous Michelle Banks . She enters a ( totally deserted ) restaurant and awaits her boyfriend . As she does so she imagines what it would be like to get a double-penetration from the 2 waiters . This fantasy lasts for about 25 minutes . Next up is Alicia Rhodes , her house is being decorated by 2 guys so obviously she fantasises about getting a DP . A good scene with a cute girl . Nicola Holt is third . She's working-out in a gym with 2 guys and imagines herself exercising naked . Sex and double penetration follow . She loves what she does and it really makes the scene work . Why can't all porn actresses show the enthusiasm she does ? The next scene is the weakest of the whole DVD . A pool cleaner fantasises about the 2 women ( McKenzie Lee and Angel Long ) sitting in the garden of the house he is attending . The sex is quite dull and the DP only comes in the form of a strap-on wearing girl . Plus he wears a condom with only one of them so it's a bit weird he'd fantasise about THAT . Last is Nikita Devine , who has a gorgeous shaven haven . The plumbers are looking at her sink but she can't help but think about getting a double penetration from them . The sex is good and it caps off a great DVD that you should definitely get if you like easy-going porn . Obviously the acting is terrible and the rehearsal bad ( do you even rehearse porn ? ) . Why the waiters would scan around an empty restaurant for a table is beyond me . It is a shame there is no double vaginal , double anal or gapes though .
A BETTER THAN AVERAGE SEQUEL	This and the first are the OFFICIAL Jaws movies in my opinion . Before it got REALLY bad . The shark is just as scary as it was before and it's good to have storylines from the first film present here . Trust me , it's not as bad as REVENGE .
A wild , imaginative and eccentric fantasy	Sequels rarely improve on the originals . Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is bursting at the seams with wacky humor , craziness and invention . Yes , the first was a brilliant ride too but it doesn't live up to this . Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter are just great in their dual roles as good Bill and Ted and evil Bill and Ted robots from the future . I've never really seen Keanu as convincing in anything else , maybe it's the characters he chooses and not his talent . Too bad his biggest exposure has been as a wooden statue in the god-awful Matrix trilogy . But it's not just Reeves and Winter this time , William Sadler's Grim Reaper is also along for the ride and he steals the show like you've never seen before . Rufus isn't in this one for very long but William Sadler more than makes up for that . The plot is a bit much to swallow if you're not familiar with the mechanics of the original . A nasty old tyrant 700 years in the future sends evil robot Bill and Teds back through time in the phone booth time machines to kill the good Bill and Ted and prevent their perfect society taking over the world . Once dead Bill and Ted go to hell , challenge the Grim Reaper to a game of Battleship , visit God ( after a spot of mugging in heaven ) , get help from a Martian , brought back from the dead , make good Bill and Ted robots and take on the evil Tyrant guy during a Battle of the Bands finale . Whew ! Peter Hewitt ( only 25 at the time ) brings a bizarre sophistication to the sequel that wasn't present in the blandly shot first film . B & TBJ literally looks like a whacked-out cartoon come to life . The production design is very colorful and vivid , reminiscent of Tim Burton , only not crap . Don't misjudge this film as being in the same sub-genre as those awful stoners Jay and Silent Bob or even Wayne's World . This is not a dumb generation Xer film , it's a lovely , silly fantasy for all ages and is definitely superior to the original . Hey Warner , hurry up and release the Bill and Ted animated series on DVD . I want it NOW ! Unlike Excellent adventure , this film was shot in plain-old 1 . 85 : 1 and the anamorphic transfer on the DVD looks fine and does justice to the very broad color pallet of film . The soundtrack is in Remastered Dolby 5 . 1 and it sounds above average if not amazing . Definitely get this . Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is thoroughly non-non-non heinous .
Powerhouse of Might and Magic !	In recent years so very few sword-and-sorcery movies have been made . One struggles to think of anything in between Conan The Destroyer and Gladiator . They are difficult to pull off and even harder to involve the audience with an obviously unidentifiable world . It may not be bestowed with Oscars , but Conan The Barbarian is just as classy as Ben Hur and more brutal than Gladiator . In an almost wordless set-up , a young Conan is orphaned by the androgynous warlord Thulsa Doom ( James Earl Jones ) and dragged off to some kind of weird labour camp where children are exploited and punished - no , this is not Euro Disney . Years go by and Conan grows up into a huge , bloated and bulging muscle-bound killing machine . At this point , he is used as a money-making tool by his captors , who set up death matches with other killing machines . Soon , he becomes the most honoured fighter in the land , so his captors set him free as he can win no more tournaments . He has a hard time surviving on his own until he finds his own special sword , makes a new best friend in Subotai ( Gerry Lopez ) and finds a girlfriend in Valeria ( Sandahl Bergman ) . Together , they live the high life of barbarians - robbing , grunting , clubbing people . All goes well until Conan makes it his personal quest to go after Thulsa Doom for revenge . Can three simple thieves take on an entire army of brainwashed warriors ? Of course ! This is Conan . James Earl Jones appears threatening , even though he doesn't even look like the kind of guy who would say boo to a goose . Imagine Oprah Winfrey in Hells Angels biker gear and you'll have an accurate description of Thulsa Doom . He's not a totally formidable foe for Conan in the larger-than-life sense , but psychologically he's a scary dude . Schwarzenegger does a great job . There really is only one person in the world who could play Conan , as sympathetic and brutal as he is , and Arnie definitely pulls it off , in this , his first major starring role . Of course , there is not much acting going on - he says only five words to Valeria in the whole movie - but it's all about physical presence , rather than thespianism . Most of the dialogue is unspoken . Conan was brought up to be a killing machine , but he does learn humanity through feeling his own mortality . Producer Dino De Laurentiis , a veteran movie-maker , brought a whole load of money to give Conan a massive scale . John Milius stages some h-u-g-e scenes , with excellent production values , and his cinematographer Duke Callaghan uses widescreen framing brilliantly . The gore and violence is on a par with Paul Verhoeven and is so frequent that after a while it becomes almost comical . Despite it's reputation of being nothing more than a cheap schlock movie , there are moments of true spectacle . Basil Poledouris , who wrote wonderful music for Robocop and many others , creates a truly majestic score that is absolutely spellbinding . You may not think it , but there is a dimension of class to Conan that may have gone unnoticed in previous viewings . As a tribute to Robert E . Howard's pulp hero , as a stand-alone movie , as an Arnie vehicle and cult picture , Conan is now almost a classic . Sure , there are faults , but you'll be too damn entertained to care .
Spare change	Sitting on a park bench alone and homeless ( awww . . . he can stay with me any day ) the Pink Panther befriends a drunk man on his way back to his nagging wife . Luckily the drunkard has a fondness for Pink Panthers and offers Pinky a place to stay . As long as his wife doesn't find out . So you can imagine , every move they make is scrutinised by the wifey but the Pink Panther uses his cunning skills at disguise to get around her nosing . It's consistently funny , but not amazingly so . Still a great cartoon though . I love the Pink Panther and the brilliant abstract style of the animation . He's the King of Cartoon Cool . No doubt .
Breathtakingly realistic	I'm not such a big fan of all these flight sim games and was a bit weary of tackling Ace Combat 6 , but I needn't worry . It's not really about getting all of the technical controls accurate as much as it's about ACTION ! As the first of the Ace Combat games to be released on a next-gen console , Atari have certainly given their best effort at using the XBOX 360 to the max . I'm not the best when it comes to controlling games but the gradual increasing complexity of the game eases you into it nicely . But less about that and more about the graphics . Though far from being an avid video-gamer , I have been playing video games since the mid-80s and it's no exaggeration to say that Ace Combat 6 literally has the BEST graphics I have ever seen . They are so incredibly photo-realistic that you'll think you're actually in control of a real fighter plane . Most of the aircraft are actual licensed fighter planes though there aren't as many to choose from this time around . The stunning environments and landscapes are so gorgeous and believable you'd be forgiven that they are lifted from Google earth ( albeit an extremely high-resolution Google Earth ) . It's the kind of game where simply flying around and buzzing over the mountains and oceans is its own kind of fun . In some ways I wish I had my own plane so I could soar into the heavens like I did with this game . Terrific escapism indeed . But this game isn't actually set on Earth . To avoid any serious political subtext ( I assume ) the good guys in the game are from a country called Emmeria , where all is well and happy and the bad guys from from Estovakia . At the risk of sounding xenophobic , Estovakia is where evil comes from . The good guys refer to them as ' Stovies ' but here in Scotland that word means ' Corned Beef Hash ' . So that is quite funny for me . I can't play online , as I don't have that capability . But the single player is splendid on it's own . With great graphics , impressive visual effects , an awesome sound design and a thumpingly good score ( where is the CD ? ) , what more could you want from a game ? Be nice to your XBOX and buy it some eye candy .
Is it just me . . .	. . . or is this the darkest black comedy ever made ? I just find Casino so amusing and funny that I hardly even notice the grim violence and harrowing drama . I also think that Casino is far , far superior to the over-rated Goodfellas . Even though it's longer , it passes in a breeze . Casino is just so colorful , multi-layered and intricate despite it's apparent simplicity . The film has three different characters narrating the story but none of it feels like exposition and it's never over-bearing . Adapted from a true story , the film focuses on the fictional Tangiers Casino in Las Vegas . The boss is Sam ' Ace ' Rothstein , his wife , volatile hustler Ginger and his psychotic ' friend ' Nicky Santoro . All they needed to do was to keep the cash-flow at the Casino steady to satisfy the bosses back home . But it was just never meant to be . And everything implodes at the end . Casino is filled with dozens of sub-plots , tangent stories and brilliant side-characters . James Woods is especially funny as a lowlife con-man who can't even win a fight with a ten-year-old girl . Vinny Vella also amuses as long-suffering Artie Piscano . But it's Sharon Stone who walks away with the movie . Despite starring opposite loads of well-established male lead actors she owns Casino . She was absolutely robbed at the Academy Awards when they gave the Oscar to Susan Sarandon . Stone delivered a performance so authentic that it's truly unfair the amount of criticism she gets for her other , less-important films . The violence will satisfy gore fans . In this lovely film we have a dope with his head in a vice ( after getting icepicks in his balls ) , a truly brutal beating with baseball bats , some moron getting a pen shoved into his neck and a cheater getting his hand mashed by a hammer . Don't let this put you off , that was the old Vegas . Nowadays you just get told not to come back . I know most people will call it sacrilege to condemn Goodfellas but Casino is just the better film of the two , plain and simple . Better lighting , far more impressive cinematography and more entertaining characters . It just has so much going for it that Goodfellas did not .
The older the fiddle , the sweeter the tune .	Arsch-Grotten starts off with a group of 4 mature women ( 50 plus ) sitting around in a mansion-type house playing bridge or something . There is a porn shoot going in one of the rooms and Eve Delage leaves the game for a moment to check up on it . When she comes back the rest of them go up , one by one , to have a peek at the sex . Thoroughly impressed by it they beg Eve to tell them how it all came about . We go into a flashback in which Eve interviews the photographer , gets friendly with him and shags him . What is notable about this scene are the multiple vaginal piercings Eve has and the fact that they go straight to hard anal , bypassing plain vaginal sex altogether . The photographer , needing a rest , interrupts the story only to have Sandra Wicked and Marie Therese pounce on him . A great scene of rough sex , anal and fisting follows . Meanwhile , Christine Gonod goes upstairs and meets two of the male actors . She is wearing the coolest see-through black top and goes straight to hard anal and then onto DP . Once she is done , Fanny , the model , enters the room when Christine is in her post-DP euphoria and fists her . The next morning Sandra meets one of the actors and gets a hard anal while Marie Therese watches , masturbating . The other actor catches her and the get it on before Eve turns up . Eve now gets hard anal while Marie Therese fists her . Still , the photographer is having problems making his shoot work . Christine enters and offers to pose for him with Fanny . Fisting , both vaginal and anal precedes sex with the photographer . It's brilliant , hard stuff . But why the thing with the mashed up cake ? I don't get it . Once they are done Fanny pees on Christine . As you do ! Cut to one month later and Eve and Sandra are reminiscing about their recent sexperiences . In need of another shag they call up the two actors from the porn shoot and invite them over . Hard anal follows before the film wraps up . A great DVD and well worth it if you are bored of US porn and need some harder Euro stuff .
Seems to have been forgotten by most people	When you mention Christmas specials one would normally think of Charlie Brown , The Smurfs , He-Man / She-Ra or any other franchise that ' saves Christmas ' . No one really remembers that the Simpsons began with their very own Christmas special . Already a hit as an animated short series on the Tracey Ullman show , The Simpsons kicked off their 17-year plus career as a prime-time family with this festive episode . Excited and filled with yuletide cheer The Simpsons come face to face with disaster when Marge's savings need to be blown on tattoo-removal surgery for Bart . And Mr . Burns cancels bonuses for all his semi-skilled employees . Flanders is already throwing his family the best Christmas ever and to make matters worse Patty and Selma show up and cast their judging eyes upon Homer in a more evil way than usual . He can't let them all down so he humiliates himself with a job as a mall Santa Claus . The job pays poorly so he gambles it at the track , expecting a miracle to happen . Do you think it will ? Since this was way back at the very beginning of The Simpsons the animation looks pretty rough and the voice acting ( especially from some of the children ) sounds a lot like the Charlie Brown phonetic acting . And since this is an older episode Homer isn't the machine he became in 1998 + seasons . He's still a human being with feelings who tries to be a good dad . Bart is still a kid who gets in trouble and Marge is still a devoted mum . You know what I mean when I say that none of this is really relevant in The Simpsons anymore since every new season just gets worse and worse as the writers get more and more cynical . This one Christmas Special represents the exact opposite of all that . It was made to make a difference to your Christmas . And if your tired of the awful bore that it's become now then perhaps you should check it out .
Happy campers	In this cartoon Donald is taking his nephews ( no a helluva lot more well-behaved ) on a camping trip in the wilderness . Donald is their leader and well . . . you can pretty much guess that every time he tries to show off to them that disaster will promptly follow . Be it chopping down a tree , pitching a tent or fending off wild bears , Donald does it all badly . And funny . And this is the first cartoon in which Donald actually appears cute instead of frowning and shouting all the time . It's also one of the few cartoons in which is face doesn't turn firetruck red through sheer anger . For a short made in 1938 it's brilliantly drawn and very funny .
One of Verhoeven's best movies , no doubt .	Arnie is Doug Quaid , a simple construction worker who is bored with his uneventful life and wishes to be more and to do something meaningful . He's fascinated with going to Mars and meeting the mysterious woman of his dreams ( that would be Melina ) despite the civil war brewing withing the colonies . His wife Lori ( Sharon Stone , looking gorgeous ) is appalled with all things Martian and quickly nixes that idea . The only way Quaid is going to come close to the red planet is if he takes a Rekall vacation , a company that literally offers you a ' dream ' vacation memory implant . Quaid wishes to go as a secret agent and all seems well until they send him to sleep . As soon as he's unconscious Quaid seems to wake up in a rage , claiming his name is not Quaid but Hauser . And it's not just the dream going wrong since the Rekall technicians have not even implanted the dream yet . Blacking out again and waking up in a cab , Quaid has totally no recollection of anything that has happened and is confused to find his life turned upside down . His wife and colleagues are trying to kill him , dozens of armed henchmen are after him , he seems to have acquired lethal killing skills from nowhere and he apparently has some unfinished business back on Mars , despite the fact that he's never been there . Or has he ? Once on Mars for real ( or is it ? ) he finds himself involved with the beautiful Melina ( Rachel Ticotin , even prettier than Sharon Stone ) , the underground resistance and battling their arch-nemesis Vilos Cohaagen , a bureaucrat who has the entire planet under his control . It seems that Hauser was Cohaagen's right hand man and left clues for the fabricated Quaid persona to topple Cohaagen's regime . Total Recall is certainly one of Arnie's and Verhoeven's most imaginative and creative movies . The Mars town of Venusville is basically Amsterdam's Red Light District with booze , drugs and sex everywhere , the violence is so ridiculously over-the-top that one cannot help but laugh at it ( despite a lot of the gorier bits being censored by the evil MPAA ) , the vision of the future is incongruously bleak but colorful and fanciful yet primitive . The contrasts between Earth and Mars are similar to Western and Third World comparisons . The visual effects , if slightly dated , are simply amazing . Jerry Goldsmith's awesome score is , at once , atmospheric and action-packed . The set-pieces , especially Quaids vision of the alien furnaces , are just ludicrously entertaining and the ' is it a dream or is it real ' premise puts such a wonderfully surreal twist on the whole thing . Sci-Fi has never been so outrageous . What do you expect with mad genius Dutchman directing ? And I do believe that it IS real .
The first Danny Boyle Film I have liked	Shoot me if you want but I never much fancied Shallow Grave , Trainspotting , A Life Less Ordinary or The Beach . And I thought that 28 Days Later was awful . Danny Boyle's innovative style always seemed out of place or incongruous with the kind of material he worked with ( probably the reason why some narrow-minded people thought that Trainspotting ' glamorised ' drugs . . . yeah right ) . But with Millions he takes a kids book and makes a wonderful film that is nothing like the dark tone of his previous works . Two kids , Damian and Anthony , move to a brand new housing estate with their dad ( James Nesbit ) after mum dies . A railroad cuts right across the fields next to their house and eight-year-old Damian builds a makeshift gang-hut right there . Damian is no ordinary kid . He is exceptionally honest and has frequent chats with Saints visiting from heaven . During once such chat in his cardboard gang-hut a train passes by and a huge bag of £20 notes crashes through the roof . Damian , believing it came from God , wants to give the money to the poor but Anthony uses it to get street cred . Trouble is that the Euro comes to Britain in only a few days and Anthony , being a junior stockbroker , struggles to think of a secure investment in time . It's all fun and games until a sinister gangster turns up asking questions and making threats . What makes the film memorable is the whimsical insight to the naive , innocent and pure-hearted life of a child . Millions mostly concentrates on Damian and Alex Etel who plays him is absolutely bloody perfect . Kids in movies are usually brats ( check out anything by Steven Spielberg ) but Damian is good enough to balance out a whole century of Daddy Day Cares and Crapper By The Dozens . His story and the world he lives in is amazing stuff and to narrow Millions down to just a kids film would be a bad thing to do . His innocence might just inspire you to stop doing bad things . Boyle's use of songs and music is also professional . It was not hacked together to make a ' Songs inspired by ' album that has little to do with the film ( which so many people unfortunately fall for ) and not only do I recommend this film highly but I would consider buying the CD too . One moan : The film is set over the Xmas period but is obviously filmed during a hot summer !
An absolutely intriguing mystery	I was often recommended Oldboy by loads of people but kept putting it off for some reason . Well , I'm glad I just decided to go ' what the hell ' because it IS actually really , really good . Even though the plot has been outlined a zillion times in other reviews , I will simply say that some seemingly random dude is plucked from the streets , imprisoned in a shoddy apartment for 15 years and let loose with a wallet full of money and a cell phone . He has 5 days to find the man who imprisoned him and why . An absorbing set-up and the clues as he slowly finds them and slowly puts them together make for a brilliant mystery movie with a wicked dark sense of humor . The plot has layers and layers of mystery and our hapless hero wades through thick twists and turns , always keeping us on the edge of our seats . There are some brilliant fight scenes and some truly bizarre moments , such as a live octopus being eaten whole . But what really floored me was the ending . I won't tell you a tiny little bit of it . But . . . wow ! As is the case with EVERY SINGLE Asian MOVIE , Oldboy is currently being remade by Hollywood . Because anything that the Asians can do , Hollywood can apparently do better . In my opinion this film really doesn't need a remake as this version is strong enough to appeal to the whole world . Too bad most of the planet are philistines who would rather ' watch ' a film than ' read ' it . A complaint I hear often enough . If your impression of Asian films is they are all shoddy and not very modern looking then , in the case of Oldboy , you are very much mistaken . Among the many strong points of the movie are the faultless editing and stunning photography . Oldboy is the slickest movie I have seen in a good while and can easily out-gloss anything by Michael Bay . Do yourself a favor and check this movie out . If you don't love it then you truly have no business watching films at all . I'll save you time and tell you outright that if you like stuff like Crapper By The Dozen 2 and Miss Congenatiliality 2 then is best you just stick to stuff like that . At the risk of sounding like a pretentious ass , leave the more important films to the brainiacs .
A classic film	I first saw this film when I was 5 and I am ashamed to say that it scared me . It's just a tad too violent and scary for younger children but it's great family entertainment and there are dozens of in-jokes for film-buffs to spot . Not only is Gremlins a very original and inventive film the animatronic effects are ahead of it's time and way cool . Anyone who is not totally overcome by Gizmo's cuteness and his cool little song must have a heart of stone . The gremlins themselves are nothing but big grins with arms and legs . Their idea of having fun is smashing everything . Who can't agree with and identify with that . I have never seen any of the cut scenes and I hope that in a future DVD special edition they will be included along with the sub-plot about Mrs . Deagle building a Nuclear Power plant in Kingston Falls . This was one of Joe Dante's first movies and you can tell that everything he grew up with and movies he studied as a child are on-screen in Gremlins . A perfect movie made by the right director .
Punished for doing the right thing	Sun-Woo is the manager of sleek modern restaurant in uptown Seoul called La Dolce Vita , but that's not his only employment . He is also the errand-boy of underworld Kingpin Mr Kang . A job he fulfils ruthlessly and efficiently , until the day Mr Kang takes off for a week , leaving Sun-Woo to mind his much younger girlfriend Hee-Soo to make sure she doesn't sleep around . If she does , he is to execute both of them . Hee-Soo cheats . Sun-Woo almost sentences them to death , but has a sober moment and realises that letting them go is the right thing to do . In Mr Kang's absence a rival crime syndicate , headed by President Baek and his over-confident son is becoming more and more impatient to force a business merger with Kang . Despite Kang's reluctance to go through with this deal one of his own men , Sun-Woo's cohort , Min-Gi welcomes the business with Baek and his son and complicates matters . Upon Kang's return he figures out Sun-Woo's failure to carry out his orders and demands he be killed unless he apologises . At this moment , Sun-Woo is about to be tortured to death by Baek Jr . but is returned to Kang on the promise that he will do business . It's out of the frying pan and into the deepest pits of fiery hell for Sun-Woo . Already bashed and bruised and beaten he is cast down in the mud during a heavy rainstorm and forced to apologise . He resists . His hand is crushed with a massive wrench he is buried alive . He survives and breaks through the loose soil . Sun-Woo and the audience breathe a sigh of relief . But it's far from over . Min-Ji and a large group of thugs are still waiting by the shallow grave . They drag him into a old building and give him 15 minutes to call Mr . Kang and beg for his life . Still he refuses . And when those 15 minutes are up Sun-Woo unleashes an incredibly lethal and jaw-droppingly furious ass-kicking like you have never seen . He goes through about 20 men like they weren't even there and dishes out agonising , blood-soaked punishment in one of the most nail-biting escapes you'll ever see . It's now time for Sun-Woo to plan his revenge . And that he does with lovingly violent detail . A Bittersweet Life comes in 3 large acts that make the 120-minute running time pass in a breeze . The set-up and story are so simple and honest that you can literally start-watching the film at any point and still become immersed in the action . But , I feel that many viewers may be missing the twist at the end . By ' twist ' I mean after Sun-Woo's death the film goes back to the beginning , revealing that he only fantasised the whole thing . He says the cruelty of any sweet dream is waking up to find yourself back in the real world . He is still in his restaurant and when no one is looking , insecurely looking over his shoulder to make sure , Sun-Woo shadow boxes for fun or curiosity . Hardly the kind of behavior you would expect from a man who has just annihilated 50 baddies . But , regardless of the final outcome , it's the high-octane journey you take to get there that really matters right ? And A Bittersweet Life is one movie you'll want to watch over and over again .
Never has the contrast been clearer	I'm a fan of the old Ridley Scott , which was ironically the young Ridley Scott . Back in his youth he made some great films and Alien is one of his crowning achievements . But let's ignore the film for just a second . You see the Scott Brothers ( Ridley and Tony ) had a highly visual sense of film-making that used the widescreen frame to its fullest potential . From quite early on they were made best pals of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and they made their reputations with such films like Beverly Hills Cop 2 , Blade Runner and Top Gun . In the early 90's their careers briefly faltered and a hack called Michael Bay went into business . Michael Bay ripped off everything he possible could from the Scotts . So much so that in recent years Ridley and Tony have had to exaggerate their style in an effort to distance themselves from this man . The result has been films that look more like agonising , drawn-out epileptic seizures ( Man on Fire , Black Hawk Down , Domino ) than works of art . Now let's get back to Alien . A beautifully paced , shot and cut fright machine with perfectly timed scares , meaningful subtext and an iron-grip on the audience . How far removed from the work of the Scott Brothers today . The franchise went to hell in 2004 with the awful Alien vs Predator movie but in its beginning the Alien films were a thing of greatness . If you can , see the director's cut . I saw this film twice in the cinema ( original cut , then director's cut ) and while they're both good the director's cut is a bit faster and has a couple real cool extra scenes and shot of the creature . And of course , widescreen is how this film MUST be seen .
Best film of Summer 2007 .	Despite the fact that , in my opinion , Michael Bay has directed two of the worst films of all time ( that would be Pearl Harbor and Bad Boys II ) I knew , from the beginning that his glossy , high-key style of film-making would be PERFECT for a live-action Transformers movie . Since The Rock in 1996 , all of Bay's films have been 2-hour plus epics and that is surely the kind of treatment that a Transformers movie deserves . No 90-minute piece of crap here . I was a fan of the animated show and toys as a kid , but viewing them now I can see how clumsy , poorly animated and just plain impractical it was . There was no reason for it to exist other than to market toys , which is fine when your five-years-old , I guess . Despite the family-friendly rating , the showing I went to had absolutely ZERO kids in the audience as it was mainly made up of twenty-somethings who had watched the show in their childhood and who would appreciate it better . Well , where to begin about how good it is . I regard this as an ' Event ' movie way more than endless , tiresome Spider-Man and Shrek sequels . The Transformers movie was anticipated for a long , long time and only in the past few years has the technology to realize the giant , alien robots on film been advanced enough . The Transformers are so photo-realistic that I'm beginning to suspect that they actually exist and are being kept secret by Sector 7 . This film will SURELY win the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects next year . Nothing can rival this . The story ( written by the team that wrote the Goonies II video game , would you believe ) and characters are rather medium-sliced . Nothing superficial yet nothing heavy enough to slow the film down . The Transformers mythology has been altered somewhat from the TV series but only to tie-up loose ends and plot holes and to give it a more contemporary feel . If you were really cynical you say that it's just a big chase movie , but so many plot threads building at once there's enough complexity to keep most cynics quiet . Shia LeBouf ( who seems to be Hollywood's biggest young star right now ) plays Sam Witwicky , a nerdy high-schooler with dreams of being a popular ladies man . His dad buys him a mysterious , banged-up yellow Camaro for getting good grades but the car seems to have a mind of it's own . Of course it does-it's Bumblebee and he's been sent to Earth to protect Sam from the Decepticon's who want an old artifact of Sam's that belonged to his great-grandfather , an explorer who discovered the long , long frozen Megatron in an underground Arctic cave . Over the course of his adventures Sam encounters a showcase of actors including Jon Voight , Josh Duhamel , Anthony Anderson , John Turturro , Bernie Mac and , eventually Optimus Prime , who is a star in his own right . All of these actors try to run away with the film , which helps since the characters , like I said , are not densely written so their energetic performances make up for this . Though Megan Fox looks a bit older than her years and has an unlikeable ' attitude ' . Did she really have a good reason to be knitting her eyebrows like that for the whole film or is she just posing for the camera ? My only other complaint is that Steve Jablonsky's dull score is basically a carbon-copy of Klaus Badelt's score for Poseidon . Both men are protégé's of Hans Zimmer I believe and their imaginations have so far proved to be rather meagre for every film they have scored . Transformers reminded me a lot of ID4 . Now how cool was David Arnold's score for that ? Steve Jablonsky could have really made something out of this but instead he just goes for dull synthy sounds and jarring sound effects . Yeesh ! Transformers is definitely an epic , must-see movie and is surely bursting at the seams with amazing set-pieces and breathtaking action . I impatiently await a sequel and look forward to owning it in glorious HD . The best film of the summer , no doubt .
Cool Game and Highly Addictive	I remember I once played this game for 5 hours straight and I still could not get past the first level . But for me , most of the time , I'm having so much fun killing people and smashing up cars that I don't care about the missions . It's also most fun to defect from your current gang and just kill ' em all off . This is one game that makes it look like so much to actually run people over . It's a pity that only the Playstation version doubles as a soundtrack CD but I gotta admit that is one cool radio station . These songs are rockin ' . This is rather good considering it's only a game . The graphics are kind of poor tho and the gameplay doesn't change much from level to level but who cares ? ! ? !
Donald's first disaster outing .	As we all know , whatever Donald Duck sets out doing at the start of any cartoon , by the end everything in the vicinity , be it house , car , shop , work , will be destroyed and Donald will be left fuming . Here , Donald is working on plumbing in his basement , using a magnet to pick up objects from the floor . Pluto becomes curious to the magnet's strange powers and mucks around with it . Soon enough he's swallowed it and scrambles around the house trying to get it out , eventually tying up Donald in the shenanigans . Cue running from flying knives , walking on the ceiling ( including one moment when Donald bizarrely defies gravity ) and general mayhem in which Donald's house is left in ruins . It's what we expect and love about Donald .
A review of the 3-D theatrical version	Last night , the Cameo Cinema in Edinburgh , screened an ultra-rare showing of Friday the 13th Part 3 in all it's gore-splattered 3D glory . The cinema was packed , the screening sold out and the audience absolutely loved it . Every scare worked , the 3D effects leaped right off the screen and lovingly poked us in the eye and when the film was over it got the longest applause I've ever seen a film get . For those pretentious cynics who think that the Friday the 13th films are not great then there's nothing like a 350 + audience to prove you wrong . Since this film was in ' polarised ' 3D ( see-thru glasses instead of a red-blue blur ) then it's not possible to transfer the effect to DVD . Besides , nothing beats seeing this on the big screen with Jason's face 10-feet tall and his massive hands reaching out for you . If there is EVER a 3D screening of this then you really ought to go see , even if you have to sell your own grandmother for a ticket .
Action-packed !	Remember the arcades back in the ' good old days ' of video-gaming ? Before polygons and 3D took over there was a time when you could walk into an arcade that was thick with the smell of sweat as dozens of teenagers hammered away furiously at the buttons of countless machines . You'd probably have to queue-up to play your favorite game or if you had no money you'd just watch someone else who was better than you . When you did get a go the stick was hard to get a grip it'd be soaked in sweat so much and your fingers would be so numb after a few minutes of play that your hand would go all cramped . Midnight Resistance ( a sequel to the 1987 game Heavy Barrel ) was one of those classic arcade games made by Data East ( one of the top companies at the time ) that was so cool you didn't care how hard it was . If you're familiar with the Turrican series of games then you'll love Midnight Resistance . It features 10 levels of similar gameplay with hordes of enemies coming at you from all directions and enough mega-firepower to deal with them all . You'll be leaping , jumping , climbing and crawling everywhere as hundreds of bursts of gunfire blaze across the screen . The fire-fight just doesn't let up for a second for the entire game . And you'll love it . Having said that , it's a very weird and surrealistic game . You're supposed to be a member of some Drug Enforcemant Squad , according to the instructions , but the enemies are often demonic and the ' story ' takes you through industrial cities , laboratories , forests and outer-space to battle giant , disembodied brain stems and free you're family from mad scientists . Very weird indeed . But that was all the rage back in 1990 , when arcade games were filled with bizarre imagery and disorientating level designs to keep you off-guard . Like other games of the era it is very , very hard ; a dastardly ploy to make you spend more and more money to get through the game . But when you had this much fun , it was worth it . Definitely one to hunt down . Graphics Sound B Gameplay A Lasting
Great documentary	Everything you ever wanted to know about Phantasm is right here in this 97-minute feature with interviews from Don Coscarelli , producer Paul Pepperman , Angus Scrimm , Reggie Bannister , Michael Baldwin and Bill Thornbury . The inspirations , the studio politics , the filming , the SFX , the brilliant score and the characters are all discussed in great length and detail and if your into these films you'll totally love it . All of the interviewees have perfect recollection of most of the events , dating as far back as 28 years ago . Especially interesting is Don Coscarelli's explanations of the evolution of the story as the series progressed and anything the elegant and classy Angus Scrimm says is like listening to an old English professor read poetry from a book , even if he is talking about an inter-dimensional grave-robbing Tall Man . If only all film documentaries were this way instead of the usual promotional fluff rubbish eh ?
A phun and phact-philled tour .	Yes , I know my substituting F for PH is getting old . But allow me some bad humor . 28 years after the first Phantasm movie was made , nothing much has changed in the fictional small town where the Tall Man started pillaging graves . Reggie Bannister hosts the feature and takes us to the house where Mike and Jodie lived ( which still looks pretty much the same ) to sit on the front porch and reminisce about the good times he had strumming on his guitar with Jodie . Then he visits the fortune teller's house , the graveyard ( actually a park ) and to place that was supposed to be the entry gates to Morningside . Reggie's a good host and has a good memory of the stories and the history of the area . I would have liked to have seen more , like which town the filmed ' Main Street ' on or the mansion that doubled as the Mausoleum ( which was also Tanya Robert's house in A View to a Kill ) but it's still a nice little feature .
Best Mario Kart game	As much as I like Mario Kart DS , this one is simply so much better . I came across this game in an arcade when I was on holiday and discovered that while it's so much like Mario Kart DS it's also much bigger and better . I do love racing games in the arcade , with the steering wheel and pedals and seat and all . It starts of with you getting your picture taken and the facial characteristics of your chosen driver ( Luigi for me ) super-imposed over your own photo . Then it's the usual course selection and driving skills . But what a fun ride ! I could literally play this game for hours and hours . Unlocking all the courses and prizes . I was doing quite well and was pretty damn pleased with myself . But to continue playing would have cost a fortune . If I were a millionaire I would . I would probably just buy the machine if I were a millionaire . Cute , colorful eye-candy . Everything such an arcade game should be . Spend your pennies on this ' un .
Great Sequel	This non-related sequel is so sweet-natured , so tame and family orientated that to assume otherwise is completely ludicrous . There is nothing in this movie that could possibly rate it above a PG , max . I wouldn't even have reservations letting younger children watch House 2 . A new house has a 20-something yuppie called Jesse ( Arye Gross ) move in with his girlfriend Kate ( Lar Park-Lincoln ) . His friend Charlie ( Jonathan Stark ) , a music agent , arrives with his new diva discovery Jana ( Amy Yasbeck ) to help him thru the unfamiliar first few days . The house is where Jesse's parents were killed when he was just a baby and it full of many curiosities . Crafted in a bizarre Gothic-Aztec style the house itself is a marvellous set and the many rooms and passages are as mysterious to us as they are to Jesse . Sitting on one of his many mantelpieces is a crystal skull that fascinates him for some reason . He even misses his housewarming party while studying the skull's history . His studies lead him to dig up the grave of his great , great grandfather , or Gramps ( Royal Dano ) , where he discovers the old coot isn't dead just in limbo . The person who possesses the skull is granted eternal youth but it also warps the space-time continuum within the House . Gramps comes home with Jesse , is more enthralled by Kleenex boxes and TV than the mysteries around him and ducks for cover whenever someone from another time comes to steal the skull . Just like the first movie different rooms lead into different time zones . Jesse and Charlie have many hilarious adventures battling caveman , dinosaurs , Aztecs an evil cowboy called Slim . The one that killed Jesse's parents and betrayed Gramps over a century ago . House 2 has so much careless abandon and zany plot twists that it is totally impossible not to love this movie . The huge success of the first movie meant that this one was put into production literally and hour later and Ethan Wiley was given the budget and green light to do whatever he wanted . How often does happen today ? Usually it would make for a bad movie considering this was the first movie Wiley directed . But it makes for an unusually cute and light-hearted supernatural romp . One of the weaker aspects of this sequel is that it has more SFX and animation by Phil Tippet's stop-motion workshop and less by Dreamquest . The matte paintings are gorgeous but the dated dinosaurs look hokey in a few shots . If you can just squint during these moments you won't notice . Bill Maher from TV's " Politically Incorrect " even manages to show up as a music producer who is interested in Yasbeck and mighty suspicious of Jesse's antics . John Ratzenberger ( this makes both movies star one of the " Cheers " barflies ) appears as a repairman / adventurer who assists Jesse and Charlie battle some Aztecs . Look out for Kane Hodder ( Jason ) in an ape costume . Jesse adopts a fluffy , little baby pterodactyl and a strange creature called a Caterpuppy , a cross between . . . well you know . You need an open mind and a suspension of disbelief to swallow the outrageous goings on in this movie . The commentary is better than the one on the first movie . Ethan Wiley and Cunningham get on well and have no quibbles pointing out how crazy the film is . They discuss the budget , tell tales of the late Royal Dano and explain how many of the effects were pulled off within the constraints of the budget . One of the most interesting things they mention is that even tho the movie was stuck in between The Color Purple and Beverly Hills Cop II the kids still preferred House 2 as their fave movie of the summer . But because the movie didn't have it's own opening weekend , unlike the original , it wasn't as successful . Didn't stop 2 more sequels being made . A theatrical trailer is also included . Much like the first film the picture has been brilliantly transferred onto DVD . The 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture looks super with very few glitches . Colors are rendered with pleasant accuracy and you wouldn't believe the low-budget origins when judging this picture . There is some grain during darker scenes but other than this the movie is looking great . The Mono soundtrack is not terribly engaging and most of the film's sound is centre-channel biased . But there's no hiss or pop to worry about . It may be Mono but it's clean and fresh sounding to me .
Down and out cat .	We all know how much Garfield hates going to the vet . So after wrecking Jon's house the fat cat is dragged , kicking and screaming , into the car . But even on the way there Garfield can't sit a peace . Until he falls out of the window and into the busy street . He quickly learns that freedom from Jon and life on the streets isn't all fun and games . No one is kind to him , he's cold and quickly hungry . So when he dips into a smelly garbage can he's met with hostility from a punk alley cat . Being house cat and used to home comforts , Garfield cannot match the aggression of this alley cat . More so when a hundred of them ( looking more like the Critters from the movie of the same name , than alley cats ) come after him . Garfield takes refuge in an old building which just happens to be Italian Restaurant where he was born . There he meets him mother and the rest of his family . Tho he doesn't belong . And Garfield learns that his real family is Jon and Odie . It's a very sweet natured story and the ending is cute and touching . There is a good reason why it won an Emmy for Outstanding Animated Program .
This is knucking futs !	David Spade is one of my fave SNL stars and he's made better movies than the rest of his old pals ( It's Pat , Coneheads and Master of Disguise are among the worst films ever made ) . I especially liked him as the voice of Kuzko in the Emperor's New Groove . Here he plays Dickie Roberts : ( former ) Child Star , a kid at the top , but a man at the bottom and absolutely desperate for a comeback . His agent ( John Lovitz ) cannot find him any work outside of celebrity boxing , his girlfriend has dumped him and Dickie's main source of income is parking cars . You get the picture , he's a completely fallen star . Rob Reiner has a role that Dickie would love to get his hands on but Rob wont touch him because it requires an actor who knows ' normal ' , someone who knows how to be an adult , someone who had a proper childhood . Desperate to get the part , Dickie hires an ordinary middle-class family ( dedicated mum , workaholic dad , bullied son , wishful daughter ) to look after him like proper parents . Trouble naturally follows . But Dickie's hijinks lessen and his new family's tolerance increases . Yes , they do learn from each other and become better people ( yadda yadda ) but there is just so much fun and craziness along the way and some genuine character moments . There are loads of celebrity cameos ( Tom Arnold , Corey Feldman , Brendan Fraser , Dustin Diamond ) and lots of biting satire and the movie industry but the bulk of the film relies upon Dickie learning family values and having fun with the kids , being a kid . Proof positive that he's still the best ( former ) SNL star . The only bad thing I can mention is Adam Sandler's involvement as executive producer , something that seriously tarnishes the film and prevents it from having any real class . The DVD is in great looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound and quite a few extras .
One of Ben's best	As a fan of Ben Dover and his terrible jokes I am annoyed at the dwindling quality of his recent DVDs . Booty Bandit was one of the last good one's he did . The first scene features 19 year old Layla-Jade , freshly back from America , introducing a porn débutante to Ben . Her name is Emma and she has never had good sex . Yeah right ! She's got a lot of puppy fat but giggles a lot and is cute enough to make it worthwhile . Both women do anal but no DP even though there are 3 guys . Would have been a great scene if they did . Second is Tammi , a rather heavy-sized woman but she's still attractive and has a great sexual appetite . She does anal with both Pascal and Omar . There is some DP but it only lasts a few seconds ! Third is Bev . She's not much to look at but this was made before her breast implants so she at least has a natural-looking body . It takes too long to get down to the sex and the anal penetration is not deep enough . There is no DP . Finally there is Leanne , the actress featured in the notorious Channel 4 documentary Hardcore . She comes across as very sweet and eager to please . She does anal and DP ( she LOVES it ! ! ! ) with Pascal and Bob . The DVD includes bonus scenes from Ben Dover's Dirty Blondes and a brief still gallery .
All is well	Who would have thought it ? Don Coscarelli , the man who wrote and directed Phantasm a long , long time ago comes back out of nowhere , after spending his entire career in the dregs , with something like this . A film that is more an exploration of regret , fading dignity and growing old than it is about a soul-sucking mummy . Very old Elvis is brilliantly played by Bruce Campbell . The voice , the hair , the mannerisms are all perfect . He's stuck in Mud Creek rest home where the cynical staff believe he's really called Sebastian Haff , the man Elvis traded places with back in the 70s . And when Haff died , so did the Elvis the public loved . This only left the REAL Elvis free to live his life in peace and eventually indignity . He pals up with a man who believes he's JFK , only problem is he's black . Though it's more likely he's senile rather than a truth-teller like the so-called Sebastian Haff . Both men have one concern , to stop some kind of Bubba Ho-Tep mummy from taking the souls of all the rest home residents . Yes , it's insane . But also wildly imaginative and more than balances out the endless , heartless , conveyer belt Hollywood productions . Elements of the story will stay with you and the character development is graceful and important . The finishing touch is Brian Tyler's awesome score . The main theme is one of the best ever and will flood you will feeling and emotion . Not only is Bubba Ho-Tep blessed with a cast and crew who care about the film their making , it also has wonderful music too . I am lucky enough to have the rare score CD ( autographed by Coscarelli and Tyler ) . Hunt it down , it's seriously worth it . The DVD is in flawless 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with loud , effective Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There is an absolute truckload of features which are , for a change , worth it considering how good the film is . You seriously have to get this , baby . Keep a lookout for Reggie Bannister as the rest home manager . And watch all the way to the end of the credits for a weird message . . . ELVIS RETURNS IN ' BUBBA NOSFERATU : CURSE OF THE SHE VAMPIRES '
Bugs the Matador	On his way to a carrot festival in Mexico , Bugs Bunny typically gets lost and ends up burrowing right into the middle of a sports arena just as a Matador is smashed out of the stadium by an angry bull . Annoyed at losing his way Bugs repeatedly tries to ask for directions and ends up get smashed out of the stadium himself . Of course you realize , this means war . What follows is a match of wits in which Bugs is always the winner . He's got a zillion times as much cunning and clever as any rival and before long the poor bull is in no condition to ever fight again . Don't mess with the Bunny .
Totally great	The Dangerous Lives of Alter Boys is kind of like a cross between The Virgin Suicides and Stand By Me . Set in the 70's ( featuring many cool 70's haircuts ) in small town Georgia , the story focuses on Francis , a 14-year-old dreamer and troublemaker . He and his pals , Tim , Wade , and Joey cope with life under the oppressive rule of one-legged nun Sister Assumpta ( Jodie Foster ) at the Puritan Christian high school they're unfortunate enough to attend . One of their methods of escape is the ' The Atomic Trinity ' comic book . Each of them have their own character with superpowers ( such as The Muscle , Captain Asskicker and Skeleton Boy ) , battling against the tyrannical regime of Nunzilla / Pegleg ( a gross caricature of Sister Assumpta ) . These fantasy stories make up the terrific animated sequences of the film . The cool thing is that they are not so totally removed from the reality of Francis , Tim , Wade and Joey . The boys soon find their way into a lot of trouble though . After stealing the school's nun statue mascot the quartet plan to steal a cougar from the zoo and put in Sister Assumpta's office . A mad plan yes , but their determination and invention behind it is very clever . Some scenes of the film are very emotional , so if you have soft spot you'll find it tough to get through the scene where Tim finds a dying dog by the side of the road or Francis reading a poem at the funeral . Francis ' relationship with Margie ( the very cute Jenna Malone ) also takes many curious and unique turns . The scene with the ghost watching them sleep was pleasingly weird . Taken from the one and only book ( posthumously ) by Chris Fuhrman ( a book I must get as soon as I see ) , The Dangerous Lives of Alter Boys is attractively shot , wonderfully acted and definitely worth getting . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 widescreen ( strangely non-anamorphic , though the region 2 version is ) with Dolby 5 . 1 sound and a mild bunch of extras .
One of the best plat-formers for the Genesis	I was a huge fan of James Pond II : Robocod and I loved the theme tune . I remember getting it for Xmas in 1992 and thinking it was so cool . So when this third one came out in 1993 I was first in line to get a copy . I sure do miss the days of the traditional plat-former . There's too much complication and eye-candy these days and I prefer simpler games . Tho I'm not saying this game is simple . The level of game play is so good that it borderlines on being a platformer and RPG . It was one of the first non-linear games I played on the Genesis . Fresh from his defeat at the North Pole , Dr . Maybe heads for the moon in order to mine it's wealth of cheese and flood the global markets . It's up to James Pond to stop him once again . What follows is an incredibly inventive and cute 75 levels of various moon locations . Tho this time there is no sponsorship from Penguin biscuits so don't expect to see them everywhere . The ending is a bit of a let down unless you find all of the missing satellite parts so make sure you scour every level before reaching the exit beacons . And am I the only one in thinking that Dave Arnold's score for ID4 ' borrowed ' from this just a little too much ? I do wish the James Pond franchise had been even half as successful as Sonic the Hedgehog but there may be life in the old guppy yet .
Terrific Modern Action Movie	Kiss of the Dragon is a hyperactive martial arts movie with a heavy European feel . After Jet Li's fans were left disappointed with the fake , CGI-enhanced fighting in Romeo Must Die he decided to go back to practical , hand-to-hand combat with literally no strings attached . KOTD is the perfect excuse for action , with minimal plot and impossible odds . Basically , Jet Li plays a Chinese cop Lui Jian who travels to Paris to help the police bring a crime boss to justice . But the French police just happen to be heavily , heavily corrupt and kill Mr . Big , framing Lui Jian in the process . Keen to stay alive , Lui Jian flees the scene , but not before screaming , mad and completely hat stand police inspector Richard ( Tcheky Caryo in his typically delirious role ) sends just about every hardened police psycho after him . Outrageously outnumbered , Lui Jian prevails and fights his way through swarms and swarms of thugs out for his blood . Using only his hands and feet ( and any useful nearby tool ) he manages to wipe them all out . Far-fetched it may be , but action choreographer Cory Yuen shoots it all in the most realistic and stylish way . You really will believe Lui Jian is capable of such an impossible feat , that's how realistic the action is . And all without glamorising guns . KOTD uses the rule of increasingly mad set-pieces . The first desperate escape through the corridors and passageways of the hotel , the death-defying escape from the Seine Barge and through the tunnels and sewers , the orphanage confrontation and ( especially ) the final scene in the police station where Lui Jian takes on a dojo full of martial artist police officers , evil twins and finally Inspector Richard . It's all breathtaking stuff and very , very violent . With far too many sanitised PG-13 minded ' action ' movies abundant these days KOTD is a breath of hardcore fresh air . If you like this then I suggest checking out The Transporter . It may be slightly tamer but it's made by the same people ( producer Luc Besson , Writer Robert Mark Kamen and Cory Yuen ) and is also set in France , only with a warmer , more exotic look . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a great Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack . There are some extras and a commentary if you're into that sort of thing .
Unprocessed fishsticks !	Not wishing to suffer a night of boring stories and horrid family activities with Patty and Selma , Homer scours the house for a hiding place and has to settle for a spot behind the bookcase after Bart , Lisa and the pets take the better ones . But behind the bookcase is the doorway to another dimension , a place where shapes are extended beyond the 2 dimensions of the Simpsons universe , along the hypothetical ' Z-Axis ' . This leads to Homer noticing things he has never been able to see before , such as his big belly and butt . The place Homer is taken to is a massive grid-like universe , not unlike the movie Tron , where the stars shine brightly above and odd shapes and idiosyncrasies are in abundance . Among the many curious things Homer encounters is the library from Myst , which I thought was a cool reference . Also , the music as Homer wanders around in this mysterious place is very nice , it's a shame it never made it to any of the Simpsons CDs . In the end , though Homer's own ignorance of quantum physics ( he never read the book by that wheelchair guy ) and despite Bart's rescue attempts , the universe collapses on itself and Homer falls into oblivion , or some place much , much worse . . . . . . the real world . Well , at least he still has his erotic cakes .
The best of early 90s experimental animation .	Liquid Television was a series shown on MTV in which animators , directors and producers could feature their own creations and characters in wildly different forms and genres . Some could be live-action , some were computer CGI ( a pioneering technique at the time ) or hand-drawn , some were done with puppets and some were stop-motion . Pretty much , this was a wonderful show for people who love all kinds of random , bizarre and crazy animated shorts . If it were not for shows like Liquid Television there'd be no Aeon Flux , Beavis and Butthead , King of the Hill , Daria or Office Space . But there were also many other lesser known characters and segments such as Dog Boy , The Art School Girls of Doom , Psycho Gram ( which were brilliant ! ) , Bobby and Billy ( also brilliant ) , Winter Steele and Joe Normal . Basically all of the weirdest experimental stuff MTV could find . I used to watch this on TV when I was 10 years old and I must say , for my fertile imagination at the time , this show was light-years ahead of the tame , PC crap that kids watch these days . I do wish a complete anthology of Liquid Television was put on DVD instead of this lame ' Best Of . . . ' DVD that's OOP . Come on Paramount , why are we waiting ?
Good stuff	As a rather unsubtle allegory of mindless consumerism The Stuff works quite well . It'd be easy to dismiss it as an 80's shlockfest but there is some brains behind it and Larry Cohen ( the very man who wrote Maniac Cop , Phone Booth and Cellular ) keeps the film fun until the last frame . It's a cool story too . A weird goo oozes out of the ground in a quarry and it tastes good . So good in fact that within days it's being sold in mass , mass , incredibly mass quantities to the whole country . People are having it for breakfast , lunch , dinner , desert and supper . They feed it to their pets and put it in their coffee . Enough is not enough as the slogan goes . Rival candy companies don't like the look of this and hire a very smooth industrial spy , David ' Mo ' Rutherford , to find out exactly what it is . What he finds is rather sinister indeed . And with the help of a commercial maker , a runaway kid and a gung-ho militia leader he tries to put a stop to The Stuff . My main problem is that the origins off The Stuff and its ' intentions ' are never fully revealed or exploited . It ends without a satisfactory explanation which is quite a shame considering how much potential is wasted . There are stories that Larry Cohen cut 30 minutes of erm ? stuff from the movie and perhaps there's more to the missing scenes . But for what it is , The Stuff , is a fun 90-minute movie that will not linger in your memory too long after seeing it . Anchor Bay's DVD of The Stuff presents the film in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen . The picture is generally clean and dirt free but has some trouble in a few scenes . The Mono sound is adequate and tolerable but the ADR is too apparent in the early scenes and there are brief drop-outs towards the end . A commentary by Larry Cohen is also included .
And on that festive bombshell . . .	Quite how Alan Partridge managed to wangle the BBC into giving him his own Xmas special after murdering Forbes McAllister in his last TV appearance is a mystery . But since disaster clings to his heels and everything he touches becomes a shambles he is always worth watching to see his ever-increasing denial of the trouble he is in . In this Xmas special he has created a mock-up of his very own living room in the TV studio . He tries to create a cozy Xmas atmosphere with a large tree , a crackling log fire and frequent visits to Fanny Thomas , a whorish TV chef cooking up Xmas snacks in his kitchen . His guests are a typically incongruous lot consisting of a Christian Zealot , Chief Commissioning Editor of BBC Programs ( and Alan's arch-Nemesis ) Tony Hayers and a pro-golfer who's career was robbed from him when he was struck by lightning . Also on the guest-list a car-dealer from a local Rover showroom dressed up as Santa who uses Alan to shamelessly plug his cars , which is illegal on the BBC . As you probably know , Alan is notorious for insulting his guests and is frequently intimidated by anyone who is not completely normal . There is no shortage of his loathsome personality and it leads to some harsh confrontations between him and the interviewees . But it's all hilarious . Since I only ever saw this for the first time yesterday I haven't been able to make an Xmas tradition of it but I will from now . It's brilliant !
You see what happens , Larry ?	It's hard to pick out one line of dialogue in particular for two reasons . One-almost everything said in this film is downright hilarious . And Two-the F word is spoken 281 times so there's not many sentences that don't contain it . 144 sentences also end in ' man ' . Jeff ' The Dude ' Lebowski is a man living a minimalistic existence . He has no job , no ambitions and no worries . His days , be they weekdays or weekends , are spent bowling , driving around or having the occasional acid flashback . His pals are Walter Sobchak , a security expert and half-crazed Vietnam vet and Donny , a humble , mousy little man who is left out of almost every conversation . The Dude is happy with his easy-going life of nothingness until two thugs ambush him in his house believing him to the OTHER Jeff ' The Big ' Lebowski , the millionaire with a trouble-making wife who owes money all over town . These thugs are none too happy with their dumb error and re-assert themselves by peeing on The Dude's rug . This very much displeases The Dude as this rug really tied the room together and since he cannot track down the ' Chinaman ' thug responsible he decides to take it out of the Big Lebowski , as it's now HIM who owes a new rug . The Dude is welcomed into the Big Lebowski's mansion by Brandt the butler , a man so appallingly sycophantic he'd make Weylon Smither's look bad . But his millionaire namesake is not so ready and willing to give hand-outs and basically tells The Dude to get lost . At this point things become quite complicated as a bunch of ex-pop star Nihilist thugs , a powerful pornographer , a dejected feminist daughter , a Brother Seamus ( NOT an Irish Monk ) , a joyriding teenager , a revolting pederast champion bowler , Saddam Hussein , a mysterious cowboy and a doctor who is insistent on him removing his shorts all make The Dude's life suddenly a helluva lot more interesting . The plot thickens and thickens and the dude is dragged to dozens of different places across LA , going from limo to limo , never too far from a white Russian or a doobie . There are zillions of idiosyncrasies in this film that keeps it new and interesting every time you watch it . Every scene and every line of dialogue is so memorable that , like me , you'll be acting the film out for years . Even on a 100th viewing you'll notice dramatic ironies , character arcs and ingenious wordplay that went right over your head before . The acting is superb . I am a fan of Jeff Bridges but he completely disappears in this film . He truly BECOMES The Dude and shows little of his recognisable self . John Goodman , in probably the most under-rated role of his career , is the world's angriest man . Bringing frustration and smart-ass arrogance to every scene ( though he's almost always right ) . Set well over a decade after ' nam ( and during the first Gulf conflict ) Walter seems to be suffering from perpetual , ever-lasting post-traumatic stress syndrome as he blows up in any situation . Take a look at his ' minor ' confrontation with Smokey for example . It's not about plot , or even characters . It's about a certain moment in time , the early 90s . And the definitive man of that time was the Dude . The rug-peeing just happened to occur simultaneously .
Impossible	This game was probably one of the most violent and bloody I have ever played . Even by modern standards . But it was absolutely impossible to finish . And I played it with the infinite lives cheat too and it still took hours and hours . The premise of the game came from the Dark Horse comics of the same name in which Robocop's technology is linked to Cyberdyne . In order to stop the technology ( and even himself ever existing ) Robocop must travel to the future and defeat Skynet . But not before taking on zillions of T-800s and T-1000s first . One of the coolest features of the game were the power-ups that modified Robocop's armour or game him massive new weapons . And you needed them as you were under constant assault from all directions . The Sega Genesis version was the best as the Super-Nintendo had all the blood cut out of it . I hope one day this is reprogrammed for the PC . Virgin sure did a great job of making the comic book into a game and how cool would it be to have a Robocop vs Terminator movie . It would surely be the greatest thing ever ! ! !
Utter genius	There's no flies on Sam Sheepdog , don't even bother trying to fool him because he can see through ALL your little tricks . Wile E . Coyote , taking a break from trying to catch that pesky Roadrunner , spies his long suspended dinner in a flock of sheep grazing happily in a field . Unfortunately for him , Sam has just started his shift and he isn't going to make it easy for him . A series of brilliant gags follow , all of them utter genius , as Coyote goes to more and more ridiculous measures to obtain his main course . Ending in a surprise twist that will leave you in stitches . A very funny , very clever cartoon .
Tormented Daffy	Poor old Daffy . He never gets his way . And in this 7-minute short he never even gets his story started it's just Daffy being tormented and riled up all the way through . Can't this Duck ever get that one moment of glory he's been after all these years ? It begins as some sort of Robin Hood type story but the animator has fun switching backgrounds so Daffy never knows what scene he is in or where he is . At one point he switches sound effects around which truly drives Daffy mad . Then after the utter humiliation of switching his parachute for an anvil ( after erasing his airplane ) the animator is revealed as . . . Bugs Bunny . " Ain't I a stinker ? " He confirms rather than asks . Yes , he is a stinker . Daffy Duck rules !
You will DIE laughing at this film	Napoleon Dynamite was a total surprise . For me it just came out of nowhere and I only went to see it because of the whacky title . How was I supposed to know I was about to see one of the funniest movies ever . But it's not HAHA funny . Or funny STRANGE . It's a weird kind of bizarre humor that will only appeal to those sick of American Pie 4 , 357 . The story is not original by any means ( a high school loser overcomes his adversaries and gets the girl ) but the absurdest approach and catatonically laid-back humor make the movie a true gem . Napoleon Dynamite is a stroppy , slack jawed , gangly high school teen . He's an uber-dork . He loves tacky drawings of fantasy creatures ( It's a Liger . My favorite animal . A cross between a tiger and a lion . ) and has a thing about telling unbelievable lies . But it's not like he feels disadvantaged . As far as Napoleon is concerned , it's everyone else that's retarded . Including his 85-pound , 32-year-old , still living at home nerdy brother . 24 year old directer Jared Hess has created a wonderful universe with Napoleon Dynamite . It's full of oddities and quirky characters of the Coen Brothers variety and a thoroughly unoppressive sense of light-heartiness . Plus , Jon Heder is BRILLIANT as Napoleon . If he don't get an Academy Award come February then there ain't no justice . His performance is just perfect in every way . The speech , the posture , the mannerisms the comic-timing . All brilliant . Definitely ! As it turns out in my investigation into the wonderful movie , the film was a bit of a sleeper hit when it came out in America . And quite deservedly so . I can assure you I will be buying the DVD of this movie .
Meaner Girls	Saved is very funny satire / comedy-drama on whacked-out Christian fundamentalists . Basically at a Christian High-School ( which is about as narrow-minded , hypocritical and contradicting as my own was ) there is this clique of girls called the ' Christian Jewels ' , which are not to dissimilar from ' The Plastics ' in Mean Girls . Every girl wants to be a part of the Jewels , including geeky , desperate Tia ( Heather Matarazazazazazo rehashing her role from Welcome to the Dollhouse ) . I would find her attractive if she hadn't dyed her hair an unconvincing blonde . Too bad she's er . . . married . After earning her way into this clique Mary ( Jena Malone ) is devastated when her boyfriend confesses his massive gayness . Eager to ' cure ' him of this ungodly condition Mary offers up her virginity to him , only to get pregnant . Obviously this bun in the oven secret threatens to tear everyone's flimsy little world apart . Hilary Faye , the leader of the Christian Jewels is appalled at Mary's sudden lack of faith and makes it her mission to save her , whatever the method or cost . Obviously Mary doesn't appreciate this and it only drives her to further isolation . Saved is superior to Mean Girls in terms of relevance and wit . Though I'm afraid the target audience will no doubt pass this over in favor for Miss Lohan as discussion of God and the lack of pink will fail to attract as young an audience . The acting is great . Jena Malone is more of an actress than Lohan / Duff , Macaulay Culkin was effective as the wheelchair-bound Roland , Mandy Moore is so innocently evil as Hilary Faye she makes Regina George look timid and Eva Amurri is like so totally gorgeous ! Seriously ! Wow ! Too bad she smokes . NEXT ! I wouldn't hesitate to recommend Saved to anyone . It's funny and clever and outdoes all ' teen-comedies ' by transcending the genre . A rarity indeed .
Those are the headlines ! God , I wish they weren't !	The headlines tonight : NATO annulled after delegate swallows treaty , car drives by window in town and Leicester man wins right to eat sister . Those are the headlines ! Now fact me till I fart ! I was 13 when this life-changing show came on TV . Reaching a small audience on BBC2 at night , The Day Today was a parody of the distinctly British way of News programming , exaggerating all the usual idiosyncrasies and formalities . My granddad made me suffer the News every night when I was a kid so I really got the sense of humor that this show layed on so thickly . Chris Morris is your utterly , utterly deadpan Anchorman delivering lines like ' " I'm so sorry " , yells exploding cleaner ' to perfection . Alan Partridge ( my first introduction to this popular character ) is the sports presenter who hasn't a clue how to commentate or appeal to his audience , Peter O'Hanarha-hanrahan is the dunderhead foreign correspondent , Colaterie Sisters does the business news and Valerie Sinatra takes care of the roads in The Day Today Travel Tower a mile above the centre of London . There's also Sylvester Stewart doing the weather but explaining it with cryptic double-meanings that no one could ever figure out . Example ' Thunder and lightning about the volume of a Thin Lizzie concert . ' Crazy one-off reporters such as Jonathan Sizz , Eugene Fraxby , Donnald Beth'le'Hem , Harfynn Teuport and Suzanna Geckaloyce are all equally as good despite their small amount of air time . But the best of them all , without a doubt , is the hard-as-fock , the man without fear , the terrifyingly important mean machine Ted Maul . Always sent out to scope the most dangerous stories ( such as a commuter train full of businessmen who have turned into barbarians because of track delays ) , Ted demands you pay attention and scares you into accepting the facts with his frighteningly authoritative voice . He's just so great , I cannot describe . There was also several stories by American reporter Barbera Wintergreen with her horribly blown-out NTSC color . Barbera mostly reported on the many , many deaths of American serial killer Chapman Baxter , who always got the chair but actually died on it in various different ways ( an electric toilet , while stuffing himself with cheeseburgers ) . Without a single duff story , The Day Today is infinitely funny and endlessly quotable . Back in 1994 , we never had MP3 players or sound-clips on the internet , so I actually made mix tapes of all the best bits ( really hard to choose ) and memorised practically every episode from beginning to end . To this Day ( today ) I still remember it all . Why haven't I bought the DVD yet ? And remember , fact times importance equals NEWS !
Suffocatingly Hilarious	For far too long we've been denied a decent Xmas movie , one that can become an annual tradition . There are movies like Christmas Vacation , Scrooged and Home Alones 1 and 2 that you have to watch every year . Bad Santa is now , definitely one of those movies . Billy plays Willie , a shopping mall Santa who is the sleaziest and filthiest scumbag ever . The kind we all aspire to be . A man who would rather pee himself than be bothered getting up to go to the john . He loathes kids ( as we all do ) and the Santa thing is only a front for robbing the mall on Christmas Eve . It's the same old scam him and his midget pal have been pulling for years . Only this year it's all about to change . Santa meets a fat , retarded kid who likes to ask LOADS of questions and seemingly lives alone in a massive , empty house ( grandma is everything but dead ) . Seizing the opportunity , Santa moves in and ends up being a ( very , very , very reluctant , surrogate father ) for the kid ( charmingly named Thurman Murman ) . But this ain't no tale of redemption . Santa maintains his sleaziness and keeps on drinking , drinking , drinking . . . though he does manage to get a totally hot girlfriend . There is some nice support from Bernie Mac and the late John Ritter ( as a fan I especially appreciated the appropriate tribute to him at the end ) but it's the kid who ends up being the one who steals the scene with his glazed , dead-eye look and unending , never-ever ending questions . Come on , what other character has mortally wounded themselves carving out a wooden pickle for an Xmas present ? I suppose I have no option but to buy the Badder Santa unrated DVD coz more of this movie will always be better . Willie is no Kris Kringle but that doesn't mean this movie isn't suitable for kids . I would still love this film even if I were 10 years old . Sure there's lots of swearing in it but point out one kid to me that won't swear when he / she grows up . If sickening sugary rubbish like Miracle on 54th Street and Home Alone 86 are making you suicidal then watch Bad Santa . The real miracle is how a film this foul can end up being so endearing .
Total classic	Everything about this movie rocks . From Goldsmith's rousing score to Stallone's perfect performance . Yes , you heard me . Stallone does act in this movie . I feel so sorry for Rambo . People are real nasty to him . Especially the deputy with the moustache . He was a real jerk . The scene in which Rambo finally explodes in the jail cell is way cool . The music that goes with this scene is SO intense . I highly recommend this movie and the soundtrack . This is a proper movie by the way . I know that the character of Rambo became a ' little ' exaggerated and silly in the sequels but do not let that alter your opinion of this movie . The Pacific Northwest scenery is also very beautiful and atmospheric . The sound design seems to be crafted so that dialogue sound natural like it would in a mountain forest or in dead cold environments where the air cannot carry sound so well . See this movie in widescreen to appreciate how cool it really is .
Fairly generic but fun racing game	I remember playing Top Speed in the arcades when I was only 7-years-old . Being that age I was really crap at it but it was one of those game where the more money you put in , the further you got . I never really had more than a couple of pounds to spare at that age . Perhaps if I saved up over a week I could have finished it but at that age a week is an eternity . The game itself played very much like the original Out Run . Except you drove a different kind of car with a nitro boost ( back then I thought that was the coolest thing but EVERY driving game now has it ) that would make it go seriously fast . Trouble is , you had to know your driving tactics ( that game was controlled with a steering wheel , stick shift and pedals ) and , being 7 , I wasn't exactly the best . When you would crash , the car would also do some really cool flips and bounces . Crashing is something I often did while playing this game . Another thing about the game that was really cool was the music . 80's arcade games REALLY DID have the best tunes ever . Thanks to my useless photographic memory I can still remember to this day the opening music . I would buy this game if I could just to hear it again . The only thing dated about it is the graphics and repetitive scenery , it does make the game look a little odd but the multiple environments make up for it . I never managed to get further than the canyon level . Top Speed did get a lot of criticism for being too much like Out Run but if it did rip it off then Turbo Out Run is a rip-off of Top Speed . Definitely a cool game .
The BEST animated TV show EVER !	I've always enjoyed animated ducks for some reason : Duck Tales , Darkwing Duck , Daffy Duck , Donald Duck . Though none of them are as deranged as Duckman . Originally broadcast between 1994 and 1997 Duckman lasted for a total 70 episodes but could easily have gone on forever without becoming stale . The titular character is a discombobulated , unapologetic slob and pretty much the worst living person in the world . He's a private detective , a widower , a peeping tom , an alcoholic , a sex maniac , a murderer , a ( fill in the blank ) . You name it , Duckman has done it . But who can blame him for being such a slimeball when the world he / we live in is so insane , outrageous and just plain nonsensical ? Eric Tiberius Duckman ( voiced by the maniacal Jason Alexander ) could carry the whole show by himself but when he's surrounded by a bunch of eccentric supporting characters you just know that trouble is just waiting to explode at every opportunity . My favorite has to be Willibald Feivel Cornfed ( or just Cornfed Pig ) , Duckman's incredibly deadpan sidekick who is seemingly talented and highly skilled at everything and is perpetually oblivious to his partner's infinity of vices and incompetence . The typical plot will involve some bizarre case he'll inevitably blunder through or will revolve around his highly dysfunctional household , though every now and again Duckman's arch-enemy King Chicken ( Tim Curry ) , a sort of Professor Moriarty in fowl form , hatches some diabolical scheme in revenge for being bullied in high school . Since I was a teenager this has been my absolute favorite animated show , better than The Simpsons , Family Guy and even King of the Hill . Nothing will ever surpass it . There never was , or will be , anything quite like Duckman ever again . The level of satire , observational humor and writing is so sharp it's deadly and the animation is done in that unique Klasky / Csupo style ( anyone who has seen Rugrats will understand ) . It's a wonderful , highly imaginative and wild world and all with a noirish , 1940s feel . You can never have too much of this particular bird .
Opera Torture	Quite happily playing the banjo and singing on the edge of his Rabbit hole , Bugs is rudely interrupted and his banjo broken when a huge , bullish Opera singer called Giovanni Jones throttles him for bugging him during opera practice . Of course you realize , this means war . Bugs goes to his Opera and disguises himself as top conductor Leopold Stokowski ( from Disney's Fantasia ) . Jones easily falls for the disguise and Bugs proceeds to torture him with the most difficult and straining Opera conducting ever . And it serves him right . The cartoon reaches high and mighty levels of insane humor when Bugs forces Jones to maintain a huge , high note for several minutes , bringing on almost death . Once Jone's voice , and confidence , has caved in , Bugs brings his banjo back for a quick strum and last laugh . Don't mess with the Bunny .
Bursting with coolness	There's a lot going on in this game and so many devices and sub-games to keep you addicted . Not so much a DX than an updated version of the Sonic Adventure , from the now obsolete Dreamcast , with better graphics , new missions and loads of extras . You play the game as seven different characters : Sonic , Tails , Knuckles , Amy , Big the Cat , The Robot Dude and ( much later ) Super Sonic . The Sonic , Tails and Knuckles levels are the best . The Big the Cat levels are really boring and slow . Each character has their own story and their own power-ups , all happening at the same time . The result is almost an RPG-like game . If this were taken a few steps further who knows how great the game could have been . Though it's still brilliant as it is . The structure is also genius and easy to get to grips with . As whatever character , you run around massive levels like Station Square and The Mystic Ruins which leads to many different action stages . The action stages can range between casinos , snowboarding , racing through sky-high circuits , go-carting , flying around in Tails ' red bi-plane , flying through wind tunnels , chases across the city rooftops and racing across sandy beaches . As always the Sonic world ( curiously earthlike and nothing like the planet Mobius from before ) is absolutely gorgeous with an exotic feel , eternal sunshine and the bluest of skies . What I like best about the game are the Chao . The cute little creatures you hatch and raise between levels . They are so great they became my reason for getting through the game . And as a bonus all Sonic games from the old Sega Game Gear are included . Each one is unlocked after every 20 emblems collected ( 1 awarded after each mission complete and others scattered about levels ) . Some parts of the game can be awfully repetitive . Certain FMV sequences were used more than once and there was no point in that . And intros to certain parts of the game took too long and became quite annoying when losing a life and starting again . The self-controlled camera was cool and useful . Though in cramped quarters it seemed to get stuck and being unable to see the character due to the spasming camera sometimes resulted in the loss of a life . That was quite annoying . The music is great and I strongly suggest you get all the soundtrack CDs ( I did ) . There are brilliant , fun-loving themes that totally carry the action along . The voices however , were a bit off from the original Japanese lip movements . A totally brilliant game that you simply must get . Sonic Adventure DX will keep you entertained for ages . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Scooby and Shaggy take a break	I saw this like a hundred times when I was a kid and I did not think I would laugh at it as much as I did then . Especially considering this is old school Scooby animation and not the sleeker , brighter animation of recent years . I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this . It's even better than Scooby's most recent adventure ( The Monster of Mexico ) . There is no Mystery Inc or Mystery Machine in this movie . It's just Shaggy ( wearing a red shirt instead of a green one ) and Scooby ( and unfortunately , Scrappy , tho he doesn't feature prominently ) and Shag's girlfriend Googy . Shaggy lives in an alarmingly large , mansion-esque house and is chosen by Count Dracula to become a werewolf so he can take part in a race for monsters . Despite looking cute and cuddly as a Werewolf , Shaggy obviously doesn't want to do it but Dracula promises to change him back to human if he wins . What follows is a Scooby Doo version of the Wacky Races as insane customized cars battle it out on an anything-goes Transylvanian race-course . The majority of laughs come from Dracula , ever so desperate to keep his wicked plan from falling apart and always making a complete idiot of himself . It's also new to see Shaggy not jump into Scooby's arms every time he sees a monster . And this time they're real too , not just some guy in a mask . I would definitely recommend this to Scooby fans and those who are just total Scooby completists ( like me ) . It's very funny and totally rewatchable . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 , as drawn and comes with a Dolby Mono soundtrack .
My fave film when I was a kid	Peggy-Lee Zorba , Nostradamus , The Colonel , Billy-Jean King , Claude-Henry Smoot , Peter Lemonjello , Ed Harley , Elmer-Fudd Gantry and Bobby-Lee Schwartz II . Not to mention Fletch himself . Has Chevy Chase ever played so many people in one film ? I love Fletch Live , it is so damn funny and cackles with hilarious dialogue . It's a bloody shame that the critics were beastly , when it first came out . Chevy Chase , once again , nails the role of Fletch and only he can deliver the deadpan sarcasm in a way no other actor can . The plot may be a little weak but it works fine . Fletch quits his job as an investigative reporter after he inherits a plantation mansion in Louisiana . But he stumbles upon another mystery and does his best to unravel it . His disguises will make you grin from ear to ear ( Claude Henry Smoot steals the show ) and they way he comes out with the most ridiculous of things when he's talking to people makes you wonder why they ever believe it . As Peter Lemonjello , Fletch tells a studio camera operator that his house is on fire . The guy believes him ! I do wish that they had used more of the Bibleland sets as it seems so much for so little screen time but the presence of R . Lee Ermey as the eccentric TV Evangelist makes up for it . I'm not really that impressed with this lacklustre DVD . There are still pictures over the end credits that hint at deleted scenes , but none of them are on here . The 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture is fine , as is the Dolby Surround sound design . But it's yet another non-effort by Universal . Fletch Lives really deserved a lot more than this . And to any of you who are puzzled why Mr . Underhill is credited in the cast of characters but not actually in the film , he IS . Look closely at the Zipedee Doo-Dah sequence and you can see him as one of the dancers .
Gimme !	Such a wonderful way to ask for candycandycandycandy . Well it's Garfield's way . And candy he certainly gets in this wonderful Halloween Special . It all starts on one cozy Halloween morn with Garfield waking to the sound of the TV . Normally he'd be irate at waking so early but when he learns what day it is he cannot wait to go trickortreating and get his paws on some candycandycandycandy ! He and Odie dress as pirates and go off on an adventure that happens to involve the ghosts of REAL pirates and real buried treasure . In the course of these brilliant 25 minutes we get the typical assortment of great Garfield humor and wonderful songs . If only the movie were this good .
Absolutely brilliant	Garfield is bored out of his mind . With nothing do to he rummages in the closet and unearths an old raincoat and fedora hat . All of a sudden he has the desire to fantasise himself as a jaded dime-novel private detective called Sam Spayed . At this point the show turns to black and white , a bold move considering most studios only want to give kids garish loud colors . Sam Spayed is the typical 1940's private dick . He narrates with the usual cynicism and attention to obscure detail . Women and dames or broads and every scam or crime is the ' oldest trick in the book ' . A beautiful broad called Tanya enters his office asking for help . Her husband drove his car off a cliff and the police are only too eager to assume he fell asleep at the wheel . Smelling foul play she hires Spayed to find the truth . And through a series of odd clues Sam finally deduces the whos , whys and whens . A radically different turn for Garfield sure , but still very funny , with some great dialogue and one-liners . Phil Roman directs as if he's doing a black and white dime novel story and not the usual Garfield stuff ( as great as the usual is ) . As thin as the story may sound it actually comes across as quite clever and it is surely one of the best Garfield TV specials . And they are all great so that's pretty much saying a lot .
Very cute game and loads of fun but a bit too short	I first got this game way back in Xmas 1992 , which is rather appropriate coz it's a very Xmasy game . Pond's villain Doctor Maybe has seized control of Santa's workshop in the North Pole , kidnapped his workers and halted toy production . Obviously someone has to save Xmas so F . I . 5 . H . send James Pond to the rescue . The object of the game is to rescue Santa's workers in all departments of his toy empire ( sports toys , candy , bath toys , musical instruments , toy cars ) while avoiding Doctor Maybe's minions and collecting zillions of fun , random objects for points . I have not played the original Genesis version in a few years but recently bought the gameboy advance version . The GBA release is faster and features redesigned levels ( still the same themes and colors ) but I was sad to see that there is no snowfall on the outside of the Santa's castle and that the bonuses underground were no longer accessible . The only one of the original cheats that remains is the invincibility code ( on the roof of the castle collect the Cake , Hammer , Earth , Apple , Tap in that order ) but it only lasts for a few minutes now instead of being permanent . The ending also cuts off pretty quickly instead of showing us Doctor Maybe escaping to the moon ( which leads to James Pond 3 ) . But the final score screen says ' theme completed ' , which confused me . I have no idea what it means . The best thing about this game is Richard Joseph's impossibly cute music . The main Robocod theme is a brilliant alternate version of Basil Poledouris ' Robocop score and the main Robocod jingle is THE most whistleable tune EVER . I first heard that jingle 13 years ago and I can't get it out of my head . Definitely a keeper for James Pond fans but James Pond 3 : Operation Starfish is even better an really ought to be remade of the GBA . Come on . . . where is it ? ? ?
So much better than the movie !	The movie was one of the worst I had seen in my life . I did not have high hope for the animated series but I was very much surprised . The dialogue and , bizarrely enough , the acting are a hundred times as good as the film and the plot and characters are also much more intriguing . Sadly production ended before the 4th season of Spawn and it just seemed to be getting darker and darker . But the one thing I can be sure of from this is that it's going to have one hell of a send-off when the entire story finally climaxes ( if HBO ever bring it back , which they should ! ! ! ) I'd start watching this if I were you . But be prepared . The violence is quite graphic .
Get ready to rumble !	Wow ! This was like the best fighting game ever . I totally loved Streets of Rage 2 . This was one of the true CLASSICS of the Sega Genesis . Whenever I fondly remember my beloved 16-bit console the fun I had playing SOR2 always comes to mind . Yuzo Koshiro's jazzy score was mind-blowing ! It completely immersed you in the seedy nightlife and underworld the game took place in . Even with this simple 16-machine SOR2 showed just how cool the music could still be . Me and my best pal played this non-stop on 2-player mode . It was definitely the most fun you could have on the Genesis . What a game it is ! ! ! If you see a copy snap it up quickly as they are rare and expensive . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
THE definitive beat-em-up	Double Dragon is commonly referred to as the first side-scrolling beat-em-up . It's not , there were a couple of minor hits before it , but it sure is the best that has ever dominated our arcades . Back in 1987 me and my uncle spent a fortune on this game and it took us about 40 million credits to get to the end . It was almost as exhausting as actually beating up hundreds of thugs . You'd hammer the buttons so hard that by the time the game had ended , you're arm would be tripled in size and you'd be sweating like crazy . And I was only 7-years-old at the time ! Despite the games that followed which were classics in their own right ( Streets of Rage , Final Fight ) none really ever matched up to Double Dragon . When playing as 2 players , this game is absolutely lethal . By the time I was 12 I managed to finish it with a single credit . That's how sad I am . Or is it because the game is so good ? But it ain't just it's high playability that makes it so good . The cartoonish graphics have just enough color and Manga to make them almost iconic . And the music ? It's amazing ! When I was 7 I'd be humming this at school or while I was walking down the road . Even 19 years later it hasn't dated a bit and still sounds brilliant . So many themes , so many melodies and so bloody cool . Double Dragon was also released on practically every home platform ( don't get me started on the awful C64 version ) but none of them , not even the recent Gameboy Advance version , really ever matched up to the awesomeness of the arcade machine . If you see this game , do not hesitate to spend all of your hard-earned pennies on it . It's well worth it . Graphics A Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
A pioneering but phenomenally hard space-shooter	In 1987 shoot-em-up video games were hardly new . But R-Type gave new meaning to the term ' side-scrolling space-shooter ' . Featuring subliminal imagery , awe-inspiring bio-mechanical villains , jaw-clenching gameplay , brilliant music and amazing power-ups , R-Type set a new standard that was soon mimicked in more games to follow than you can shake a stick at . The story behind the game has earth come under attack from a race of mutant aliens called The Bydo Empire . Instead of sending a whole fleet of warships to fend them off a single R-series space vessel must penetrate the hordes of Bydo scum and make it to the core of the mothership and blast them back to the far side of the galaxy . It's hard . Very , very hard . And you'll be screaming with frustration . But that was the ingenuous part . IREM deliberately made the game near-impossible so you'd spend more money on it . And by jove it worked on me . Apart from several R-Type sequels , IREM never mounted to much after this . R-Type was their one hit wonder . Ported onto just about every home console you can think of , the best version of R-Type was always the arcade machine . If you see it , don't think twice about playing . And paying .
Snake is Back , baby	This movie is very unfairly under-rated . Just because when it came out America was in a feel good phase with the 1996 Olympics and the release of Independence Day . A lot of people have criticized the visual effects but the surfing scene ain't that bad and are far superior to that of the flames in the tunnel in ID4 . Kurt Russell is brilliant as Snake , his most iconic character and the whole movie is kind of lighthearted . The music especially . I have also never seen a film with an ending quite like this . Now for the announced Escape from Earth , it may not happen due to the dark nature of the series and studio reluctance to not do anything but kiddie crap , but it would be a wonderful finale .
Choo choo ! Hilariously funny !	Only if you are really sick like me . We watched this movie in Primary School . I distinctly remember being in Primary 6 and it was the day before we all went off on our Easter holidays . They herded us into the gym hall where a representative from British Rail gave us a speech on why we shouldn't trespass on railways . It fell on deaf ears . Or at least it did in my case . After the speech he put on this movie . And let me tell you , the movie is brilliant because you get see a little boy get mown over by a train . When you're a sick-humored 10-year-old , it's the funniest thing . And don't single me out , the whole bunch of us found it hilarious and burst into laughter . I think the Brit Rail rep got a little pssed off . The bit where Robbie gets his feet sawn off was the best and then his big sister loses her voice through shock after witnessing such horror . Robbie was still alive though . . . but he WON'T be playing football again . Well that'll teach you not to play on the railroad then you silly boy ! Of course I thought I was above it all and immortal , as any kid does and a few years later I almost met the same fate myself as I was moronically playing on the railroad tracks . But through some sort of act-of-God miracle I survived intact . So kids . . . pay some bloody attention ! There were different versions of the film that had Robbie meet various grisly ends , such as being fried with electricity and stuff , the director must have had loads of fun killing him off so many times . But it's all for a good cause eh ? A cause I was too arrogant to pay attention to . The film is practically IMPOSSIBLE to find these days . They still tour schools with it , as far as I know . But there's no DVD . A lot of stuff that British Transport Films produced now belongs to the British Film Institute , so you should try contacting them . It would be a unique film to own , I must admit .
Brilliant and inventive psychological fantasy	This is a way cool fantasy movie . One of my faves , it really is so cool . The director is Bernard Rose who went on to direct Candyman , he made a great start with this film . The film about a girl called Anna who falls ill with glandular fever on her 11th birthday . She draws a house on a shred of paper from her exercise book and falls into a dream in which the house is real . Each subsequent dream that she has is altered by the presence of whatever she adds to the picture . In her third dream she meets a boy she thinks she has created called Mark . She befriends him and their relationship becomes stronger as the dreams become darker and scarier . Charlotte Burke who plays Anna is a terrific actress and it is very strange that , after just one film , she should disappear and never be in anything ever again . She really does give a great performance in this film . Hans Zimmer's score is also ace . Much like Broken Arrow , the music is ghostly and mysterious . It's a real shame that the soundtrack is not available on CD anymore . The DVD is available in R2 only .
An annual tradition	Even though we do not celebrate Thanksgiving here in Scotland I watch this film once a year before I get in the Xmas mood and watch loads of Xmas movies like Home Alone , Scrooged and Christmas Vacation . It has become a tradition and perhaps even a necessity . Neal Page ( Steve Martin , back when he was funny ) is a Marketing Exec who has just made a pointless trip to New York 2 days before Thanksgiving . The inconclusive meeting in question ends just half an hour before his flight back home . If he hurries , he'll catch the flight no problem and be home with the family before he knows it . Right ? Well , no . There are no cabs on Wall Street . After being hustled out of $75 for a cab someone else hailed it promptly takes off with passenger unknown . But no matter , the airport has delayed the flight because of snow . In the waiting lounge , Neal meets Del Griffith ( John Candy , man do I miss him ! ) , a shower curtain ring salesman and the very man who went off in his Taxi . Despite Del's insistence on making it up to Neal , he fobs him off and remains in a mood . Once on board the plane the fussy Flight Attendant seats him in coach as there was a mistake with his first class ticket . Guess who he is sat beside ? Del of course . And he blabs on and on , telling unfunny , unamusing anecdotes to an increasingly squashed and uncomfortable Neal . A huge snowstorm in Chicago results in the plane being diverted hundreds of miles , all the way down to Wichita , Kansas . Neal is forced to spend the night with Del in a unbelievably seedy motel . . . in the same bed . That night they are robbed and left with nothing but their credit cards . Since Del is a massive slob who leaves his dirty socks in the sink , crumbs and wrappers everywhere and spills beer on the bed , Neal would like nothing more than to ditch him and get on with his long journey home alone . It's here that the emotional punch of the movie really kicks in . Neal is arrogant and selfish but Del stills sees some good in him and would like nothing more than to be his best buddy . But he is repeatedly kicked aside and ignored as the two of them inch their way home . Fate crosses their paths over and over and Neal is pretty much only temporarily sticking with him to serve himself . Candy's need for a pal and his frustration at Neal only becomes apparent after the first viewing as it's the shocking twist ending that makes you add up his character and emotions . At the time this film was already brilliant , but it's the fact that Del Griffith and John Candy are almost one and the same that makes it that extra bit special . Both were friendly , chatty and tried really hard to be liked . And now that Candy is gone forever you can't help but really , really feel for him and see the trouble he is going through despite his best efforts to hide it . Neal and Del may be opposites but as they both struggle through setback after setback they eventually come to empathise and understand each other . I dare you not be moved to tears when Del is sitting alone in the train station and confesses his secret to Neal . If you are not crying then you truly have no soul . The film ain't just an emotional character drama . It's also a road movie with loads of snow covered middle-America scenery and is extremely funny and packed with classic scenes . Anyone who has seen it already will know what I mean when I say ' THOSE AREN'T PILLOWS ! ' Del driving on the wrong side of the highway will suffocate you as will Neal's confrontation with the rental car receptionist , the character of Owen ( Dylan Baker ) and his nasal problems . Ocassionaly , James Ira Newborn's score can be a bit distracting and even slightly inappropriate , but there are some deeply emotional cues in there that can easily shift the mood of a scene . Inconsistent it may be but overall it's better than most comedic scores . Planes , Trains and Automobiles is an eternal tribute to how great Martin used to be before he sold himself out to family movies and how wonderful John Candy was as an actor and a person . For him alone this film gets . He was brilliant and died far too young , but in his short career he did give us some unforgettable stuff and this movie is certainly one of them .
One of the best !	I used to love Public Information Films when I was a kid . Some of them were masterpieces of tension and scares . Always filmed on 16mm , always stark and to-the-point and mostly always featuring children as the victims . You were glued to the screen . There's just something so hauntingly brilliant about them and The Spirit of Dark and Lonely Water is no exception . Directed by Rolf Harris , the film had Donald Pleasance play the voice of The Spirit-a sinister , robed apparition who would always be present when some foolish person ended up in a lake / pond / etc when they couldn't swim or when no one else could help . Of course the Spirit was powerless against sensible children but the echoing warning of ' I'll be back-ack-ack-ack ' reminded you that going for a dip in a flooded quarry would probably be dumb thing to do .
While I love Dolph , Thomas Jane just did it better	I can't decide whether or not Dolph did not apply himself to this role in the slightest and ended up turning in a monotone performance or because the character is supposed to be dark and depressed . Either way it's slightly depressing to watch . The plot concerns Frank Castle AKA The Punisher and his effort to rid Washington DC ( actually Melbourne , Australia ) of criminal scum . He's wiped out a million guys in a couple of years and the cops want to send him to prison . Frank Castle used to be a cop and since the Mob killed his family he's lived in the sewer . As you do ? This film has been cut to shreds . I know there was more story and action filmed than what was actually shown in the film . It's criminally short but seems to go on for an eternity . The director is Mark Goldblatt . He edited ' Total Recall ' , ' Starship Troopers ' and ' Hollow Man ' . The action is quite dull and Dolph has no one-liners and no emotion . Dolph can usually be relied upon to deliver the goods but not here . I guess in 1989 he couldn't pick and choose his roles . This film followed the abysmal ' Red Scorpion ' , his clout wasn't as such so he could so ' no ' . Dolph has enjoyed some decent roles but in recent years he has been offered some really bad scripts . I think it's time he realised he should be getting back into A-List films . This is not his best . Watch ' Joshua Tree ' instead or the brilliant 2004 remake .
Anything goes !	Set before the events of ' Raiders ' , Dr . Jones is in Shanghai doing business with Chinese crime boss Lau Che . Losing the upper hand in a night club he barely escapes with his life ( and baggage in the form of Willie Scott and sidekick kid Short Round ) to the airport . But little does he know the plane he gets on is owned by Lau Che and the pilots sneak out in mid-air while they are sleeping . After jumping to safety in an inflatable dinghy Indy , Willie and Short Round drift by an Indian village that has been stricken with bad luck since the theft of their magical Shankara stones . Encouraged by the villagers to go to Pankot palace and retrieve the stones , Indy has no idea that what he will find involves an evil cult hellbent on taking over the world with their lunatic new religion . Temple of Doom is , without a shadow of a doubt , the best Indiana Jones film . I know a lot of nerds are going to disagree with me but I do think it superior to Raiders of the Lost Ark because I prefer the darker , nastier tone and the fact that it just doesn't let up from the word ' go ' ! Two hours of Temple of Doom's running time pass in a breeze of sheer adventure as Spielberg takes us from one memorable set-piece to another . The opening musical number , the fight in the Obi-Wan Club , the chase through Shanghai , the plane crash / dingy ride , the journey to Pankot Palace , the dinner scene , the human sacrifice , the freeing of the slaves , the mine-cart ride , the water rush , the rope bridge , the cliff-hanging . . . wow ! How much more can you pack into a film ? It's physically impossible ! Originally criticised on it's release for being too dark , Temple of Doom still ends up being a classic . I guess the audiences of 1984 were expecting Raiders of the Lost Ark 2 and were taken aback when they got something else . If you watch it with the others you can feel how different the film is with no scenes taking place in America , no University and no Sallah or Marcus Brody . John Williams ' brilliant music is also at it's best . He even received an Academy Award nomination despite already being nominated for his work on Raiders of the Lost Ark , which is quite rare . The film did win an Oscar for its visual effects ( beating the equally impressive effects of Ghostbusters ) which , when viewed today , at least might seem a little bit dated , but still hold up quite well . Or course , there's nothing really important about the film . I mean it won't beat Schindler's List or Munich in terms of drama but if you want escapism and soaring , thrill-a-minute adventure his name is Indiana Jones and the place is the Temple of Doom .
Chilling . And somehow still relevant .	In this dark Disney short ( directed by the same guy who did Lady and the Tramp and Peter Pan ) we see a young German couple take their newborn baby to be registered as one of ' Hitler's Children ' . They have to prove their ethnic origin all the way back to their great-grandparents to authenticate the child's pure Aryan blood . One of Hitler's biggest mistakes is the fact that blue eyes / blonde hair is a recessive gene and is times dominated by dark eyes / hair . The parents must choose a name for the child but can only take what is not already chosen from ' the list ' . They choose Hans , which ends up being okay . Soon the child is in school and is taught warped versions of typical values . Hans is told of a fox hunting a rabbit . He takes sympathy on the poor rabbit and is ridiculed and tormented by his teacher and classmates . The lesson of ' only the strong survive ' is brutally hammered into him . And when Hans gets sick his parents are warned to cease all ' mollycoddling ' and he better get well quickly . Hitler's children do no get sick and those who do are taken away and never heard from again . More and more evil lesson and hailing the Fuehrer follow . Soon Hans is a grown man , marching in line with all the other soldiers . Neither of them are individuals . They are robots believing what Hitler wants them to believe . Doing what Hitler wants them to do . Saying what Hitler wants them to say . None of them know joy , happiness or laughter . And soon Hans is dead . Sympathy is felt for the child within who died a long time ago . It's alarming when you consider that this may feel far-fetched yet in today's society we are still reared and duped by lying world leaders . We still believe nonsense we read in tabloids and fear and xenophobia still overpower common sense . A very chilling cartoon .
A man's movie . Girls not allowed	After starring as one of the most iconic and unstoppable villains ever in Terminator , it was high time that Arnie had a worthy foe to fight against . And he got way more than he bargained for with the Predator . Before his crowning achievement of Die Hard , John McTiernan assembled a group of seven muscle-bound commandos in the South American jungle and let them unleash hell on Latino , Russian and Aliens alike with an awesome arsenal of macho weaponry . This is definitely a boys ' movie . Both Alien and Aliens - hell , even Friday The 13th - had a thing about two females going head to head at the end . How are us guys supposed to get a kick out of endings like that ? Arnie plays Major Alan ' Dutch ' Schaefer , the leader of an elite Spec Ops force . His team is called to duty by General Phillips ( R . G . Armstrong ) and the very suspicious Dillon ( Carl Weathers ) to rescue a bunch of government officials , who have been shot down in enemy territory in Latin America . As soon as they arrive in the jungle something is watching their every move from the trees . And they get the feeling that things just ain't right . The first rescue team is found disembowelled and skinned . Same goes for their chopper . None of them trust Dillon . He's up to no good . There are no cabinet ministers being held hostage , just a bunch of his CIA pals being tortured by the Russians . In no less than five minutes , all seven of them completely obliterate a rebel guerrilla camp . The CIA hostages are dead . Dutch is angry and feels mighty betrayed . Dillon lied to him and their mission is over as soon as it started . All they have to do is make a journey through one valley to the nearest rendezvous point and fly back home . Not so simple when a high-tech , seemingly invisible , 7'2 ' ' , extra-terrestrial Rastafarian hunter is picking them off one by one and keeping their skulls as trophies . This predator is obviously a fan of the 1932 movie , The Most Dangerous Game . In the same way that he created nervous claustrophobia around the Nakatomi Plaza in Die Hard , McTiernan floods the movie with an oppressive and twitchy atmosphere . Half of the film's ominous tone comes from Alan Silvestri's militaristic and primeval score , with pounding drums and lurking strings , indicating that the Predator's haunting presence is everywhere . He could strike from any corner at any moment . And he does . Nothing Dutch and his men seem to do can thwart this enemy and in no time at all Dutch is the last one standing . He runs for his life with the Predator in hot pursuit . The final act is no doubt the strongest and can even be viewed as a separate movie altogether . McTiernan ditches the lush , steamy jungle from the first two acts and completely turns it around into a strikingly Gothic , baroque , supernatural landscape . There is a subtext of primitive brutality winning over highly advanced super-weapons . And there is enough testosterone between Dutch and the Predator to fill 100 tanker trucks . Women , totally , need not apply . Definitely one of Arnie's best and a landmark action movie . No doubt . Outdone only by the sequel . Note : When the Predator rises out of the lake and tries to Arnie , who is covered in mud , he notices a monkey sitting on a log . Freeze frame the film when he zooms in and you will see a single frame shot of a man in a white vest with an explosion / lens flare behind . It looks like a shot from Die Hard ( which wasn't made at the time ! ) and I have no clue how it got in there . Weird huh ?
Battle of wits again .	Once again Elmer is faced with the dilemma of who to shoot . Bugs of Daffy . He's unsure of what season it is and Bunny and Duck arguing help matters not . Though Bugs proves he's the smartest once more by repeatedly using reverse psychology on Daffy in increasingly subtle ways . And when that runs out he does his trademark cross-dressing thingy . Daffy freaks out and demands the bunny be shot . Though Elmer is too stupid he is hopelessly in love with the girl bunny thing . Elmer really is to blame for all this . If he weren't so dumb he'd know it REALLY is duck season and just blast Daffy . But poor old Daff can't believe the utter preposterousness of the situation . His cruel plans of misdirection have been foiled by Elmer's dumbness . Daffy is so shocked that he even goes home with Elmer to be blasted in his living room . Poor Daff . He rules !
Great suspense , awesome set-pieces	Since seeing this film I've never been comfortable with Denis Leary as a comedian because he's so damn convincing as the cold-hearted bad guy in this . I think he's a great actor but this is the movie to see him in as it's A . His best performance and B . One of the best villains ever in movies . Judgment Night kind of comes across as a modern , urban Deliverance . There are many similarities between them but Judgment Night clearly has more excitement . Estevez , Gooding Jnr , Piven and Dorff play well off each other and Piven especially seems to really get into the whiny runt of his character . Leary plays Fallon , a dangerous criminal from Chicago's bad side . And when the four pals cross him and witness a murder carried out by him a chase across derelict landscapes follows . Peter Greene , an actor I always like to see , plays Sykes , one of Fallon's cohorts as well as Everlast from the rap group House of Pain as Rhodes . They sure do make a threatening impression . Director Stephen Hopkins ( who also did Predator 2 and Blown Away ) uses creeping camera movements and neo-noir lighting to provoke multiple eerie moments as well as a great deal of tension . Slow-mo and warped sound effects are also used to great effect in the finale . The DVD by Universal massively improves on the old release by Goodtimes . Now the film is brilliantly presented in it's proper aspect ratio of 2 . 35 : 1 . This new framing wonderfully compliments the Gothic atmosphere and brooding silhouette photography . The terrible Dolby 2 . 0 soundtrack has been dropped and replaced with a grand DTS 5 . 1 track ( Judgment Night was one of the first movies to be released in DTS ) . For the presentation of the movie it's surely a great package but the only extra is a trailer . It's still a must buy !
It had great potential	For all this movie has going for it , nothing can overcome the weak dialogue and limp direction . Once the action kicks in it doesn't let up until the movie's climax and the villains are more than hissable . Ice-T turns in an okay performance as Jack Mason , a man unwittingly hired to be the human prey for a bunch of rich psychos who have nothing left to get pleasure from other than ' breaking necks with their bares hands ' . The bad guys are plentiful and are better written than Ice-T's character . Gary Busey has ( an unfortunately small ) role as Doc Hawkins who killed his beloved dog when he was 12 and has never looked back in the kill = fun department . John C . McGinley is John Griffin , a Texas oil tycoon who is convinced that Mason is the man who stalked and killed his daughter . He really goes over the edge and becomes some sort of obsessive maniac . F . Murray Abraham is Mr . Wolfe , ' the most feared man on Wall Street ' who proves that not all suits are wimpy , upper-class and civilized and wants his son Wolfe Jnr ( William McNamara ) to be the same way . Rutger Hauer and Charles S . Dutton play Thomas Burns and Walter Cole , the men who organise and arrange the hunt but do not actually participate in it . With all this character set up there is zero dialogue that is even slightly memorable or quotable and the direction leaves a lot to be considered . But Stewart Copeland's ace musical score and the beautiful Pacific Northwest scenery make up for that . I suggest that you buy this DVD if you can get a good price on it . The DVD is in Dolby 5 . 1 and is anamorphically enhanced at 1 . 85 : 1 .
A masterwork of trickery and deception .	Set back in the old west , during the days of the old traveling circuses , Bugs Bunny plays a stage presenter who oversells a high-diving act only for the diver to call in sick . Frustrated and mad at the disappointment , Yosemite Sam demands satisfaction and threatens Bugs to perform the stunts himself . You honestly think you can pull one over the Bunny ? Again and again Sam leads Bugs up the huge ladder to the diving board and every single time Bugs tricks him into going off himself . Basically , the entire cartoon is a list of increasingly creative ways you can trick someone , blinded with rage , into doing the same , stupid thing . Yosemite Sam is an idiot , and anyone with sense would just stop trying . But because he's so dumb it makes every fall more and more funny . A great short indeed .
Father LOVES Beaver !	Acid Rain . Drug Addiction . International Terrorism . Freeway Killers . Now , more than ever , it is important to remember the TRUE meaning of Christmas ! Don't miss Bill Murray's immortal classic Scrooged . You're life might just depend on it . Christmas Specials are a big deal , with some of them ( such as Charlie Brown and The Grinch ) going down in TV history . When it comes to story a lot of lazy staff writers just milk the Christmas Carol goat and there are millions of different takes out there to prove it with Roseanne and the original Star Trek series all doing their own rip-offs . IBC boss Frank Cross ( Bill Murray dressed up as Steven Seagal's long-lost twin brother ) is a delightfully wicked man of hate who is planning his very own live broadcast of said story . Little does he know that very tale is about to wind its way into his life . Why I like Frank Cross is because he's a lot like me . He's mean to those beneath him , yields power with a ruthless swagger and is sarcastic to just about everyone . If you disagree with him in even the slightest , tiniest little way he'll fire you . Just like I would . But on this certain Xmas Eve life is getting very weird for him . The owner of the station is doubting his abilities to undertake such a heavy production , a slimy Californian director is trying to muscle-in on his job and his dead boss comes back to haunt him . He brings an important message that if he doesn't change his way he's going to hell and that three ghosts , of Xmas past , present and future , are going to show him the results of his evilness . In the hands of just another comedy director this would have been a missed opportunity , but Richard Donner shoots the film as a supernatural fantasy and gives it a pretty superior shine . Something Brian Levant could never do . And let's not forget Bill Murray , the guy is a genius no matter what he does and he dominates the whole film with his loud an maniacal performance . Everything he says seems to be ad-libbed and babbles some brilliant one-liners and sarcasm . Most people are put-off by the ending and claim that when the nastiness stops and sentiment kicks in the film goes downhill . I don't feel this way . In a world where Xmas is commercialised and the time of year where people go in huge debt we need a constant reminder of what we should be feeling . No one is asking you to celebrate the fact that Wal-Mart are selling cheap turkeys or that greedy stores have a limited stock of $700 X-Boxes . At the end Frank Cross , the world's biggest scrooge and non-believer , tells us that it's the fun , the determination to make a difference , the easiness of changing someone's life and the spirit of the holiday season that really matters . You don't have to hate it and if you surrender your pride and just give it a go then maybe the miracle to happen to you to . For me , Scrooged has been an annual tradition for years and will continue to be so . Not only is it very funny but , in its own way , very important . If you give a little , you can get back a whole lot more . Sounds corny , I know but Xmas is what you make it . And you only get a small amount so it's best to make every one count . This movie is a step in the right direction .
Justice in 90 minutes or your Pizza's free	Gino Felino , like Nico Toscani , Mason Storm and John Hatcher before him , is a good cop in a bad mood . His partner Bobby Lupo has been gunned down in the streets in front of his wife and kids by crazed wannabe gangster Richie Madano . Richie was always into something bad , even when he was a kid and now seems to be going psycho , snorting coke and smoking crack . He's got a one-way ticket to oblivion and he's going to have fun getting there along with his evil henchmen Joey Dogs , Bobby Arms and Bochi . Luckily for the good citizens of Brooklyn , Gino is on the case and on the mission to find Richie by means of broken bones , severed limbs and agonizing pain . As Steven Seagal movies go ( the pre-1997 Golden Years ) Out For Justice is definitely one of the strongest . Tight fast-paced direction , well balanced widescreen framing , a great score by David Michael Frank and an impressive cast of familiar faces give it a lasting impression . Also , Seagal has mentioned that this is his favorite film of his own and you can really see it in his acting . He's often been criticised for not giving any effort and I wholeheartedly agree in regard to his later films . But there was a time when he did try and in Out For Justice you can see that a little effort goes a long way . I know his Brooklyn accent isn't THAT convincing and his acting in general isn't exactly on par with Olivier , but if he we're to be just as enthusiastic about his other characters then maybe his film career wouldn't be in the toilet . Out For Justice never loses its appeal . William Forsythe is just so evil as Richie that I've never been convinced by the nice guy characters he's played in other movies . The fight scenes in which Seagal takes measures to ensure maximum suffering are most entertaining and small moments of character give it a strange edge . But you can tell that there's been a lot of stuff left out . This is especially evident in the montage sequences where characters are wearing different clothing and meet up with each other all over the place . There is also hints at more murders by Richie in the trailer that are never seen or referenced in the film at all . Proof positive that Seagal once had it . But then came religion and then . . . well . . . you know how it went .
An intriguing mystery for people who like to think	Spartan-Rigorously self-disciplined or self-restrained . Simple , frugal austere . Marked by brevity of speech , laconic . Courageous in the face of pain , danger , or adversity . If you like Ronin then Spartan is choc-full of the same kind of cryptic dialogue with double / triple meanings and clever touches . Not surprising really since Spartan is written and directed by David Mamet who worked on the Ronin script . When the President's daughter is kidnapped a strict , no-nonsense Secret-Secret Service agent ( Val Kilmer ) follows an intriguing trail of clues and dead-ends to find out where she is , who took her and why . Hardly sounds original but Spartan dares to do what very , very few Hollywood movies are willing to try ; it assumes its audience actually have brains and can figure things out by themselves . Spartan is the slickest , smoothest and smartest thriller for a good while . Kilmer has his critics and is constantly given a hard time . But here he proves what an actor he can be given the right material . Ed O'Neill also pops up and adds some post-Married With Children credibility to his resume . Like Ronin , the action is stern and serious . There's nothing far-fetched or unbelievable about this . It may lack the epic feel of Ronin but Spartan is by no means a small movie . I strongly recommend this if you are tired of idiotic action movies and need a fix of something with some class . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound .
A better ' bomb ' movie than Speed .	Most IRA movies made in Hollywood are always criticised for the actors not sounding like real Irishmen . I have never once found this to be true and certainly not for Blown Away . Tommy Lee Jones is quite convincing as a deranged bomber who goes after Jeff Bridges in revenge for betraying him 25 years earlier . Stephen Hopkins uses his fave cinematographer and composer Peter Levy and Alan Silvestri to bring some visual style and a powerful musical score to accompany the action and explosion scenes . The final encounter between Jones and Bridges is WAY cool . Trust me . It's one of the best showdowns in history . A cool use of widescreen photography captures a pleasant and eye-pleasing view of Boston . I only ever saw this city in Cheers previously and now it makes wanna visit . This film was overlooked in the summer of 1994 because the audience was too busy with the other BOMB movie Speed . By that I mean movies with bombs . Not movies that are bombs . Speed was about a bomber wanting money . But Blown Away is a more personal , character-driven film and definitely the superior of the two .
And now . . . a word on nutrition	Robocop 2 is probably the most under-rated and most harshly criticized sequel in history ( tying with Predator 2 , which came out the same year ) . Because of a few missing elements from the first and a slightly more cartoonish approach to the violence , the critics and public alike were not pleased and opinions and feelings toward the franchise nosedived with the just plain awful Robocop 3 . Don't con yourself out of a good movie though . Robocop 2 still has the same savage sense of humor , cynical social commentary and character pathos of the first film . It's a hyper-realistic vision of an America populated by gun-loving psychos , a democracy owned by big business and the poverty-stricken addicted to drugs dealt to them by peddlers believing themselves to be the second coming of Christ . Far-fetched could be the typical way of describing it . Completely-over-the-top would be more appropriate . Empire Strikes Back director Irvin Kershner chucks in as much sadistic violence , deafening gunfire , endless destruction and loss of human life that the film just begs you not to take it seriously . Some of the blame was placed on writer Frank Miller for the film being more cartoonish than the original . I don't think this is very fair . I read Miller's original script when I was in high school and it is rather different and , dare I say , unfilmable . Robocop 2 himself was not Nuke Lord Caine , the psychotic hippie with delusions of Godhood . He was called Kong , a psychotic cop who pretty much killed everybody he came across . Sgt . Reed and the Old Man died and there wasn't much humor . Screenwriter Walon Green was hired to doctor the script and much of what appears on screen is actually his work . Frank Miller's original ideas are pretty much just left as the framework for the whole movie and some of his story was recycled into Robocop 3 ( don't blame him for that one either ) . Miller was obviously upset with this but was still a good enough sport to appear in the film ( keep a lookout for him playing Doctor Frank ) , though he vowed not to work in Hollywood again for fear of being taken advantage of . Until Robert Rodriguez promised to make good on his Sin City graphic novels . Verhoven may be gone but Irvin Kershner tries hard to deliver the same mix of mirth and magic and actually does get it right . Basil Poledouris ' brooding score is also gone ( it returns in Robocop 3 ) but new composer Leonard Rosenman creates a wonderfully heroic and upbeat theme that suits the film more than Poledouris ' moody , tormented score to the first . Filmed once again in Texas , Houston this time , you really have to feel for Peter Weller walking around in that Robosuit . It must have weighed a ton and he'd be sweating bucketloads inside . There is a particular scene in the film where Murphy is tortured into near-death / destruction that is very hard to watch . But it does lead to him getting a brand-new makeover and those crazy new directives put into his head . The bit where he lectures the Little League kids and scolds the youngsters playing by the leaky fire hydrant ( after quoting some very suspicious philosophy ) is hilarious . Robocop 2 is a great movie . Despite problems with the script and story and some slightly dated stop-motion effects it's a brilliant sequel that lives up to expectations . Do listen to the nay-sayers . I don't know what kind of film they were expecting . And thank you for not smoking !
A funny , but not faultless , return .	This Roadrunner cartoon preceded the awesome Looney Tunes : Back in Action movie . I saw it with a full house and everyone did find it funny ( plus it was cool to get a little extra bonus before the movie started ) . The animation is slick and modern and there are some real funny moments . The story behind this ' un sees a couple of dueling wizards wipe each other out . Wile E . Coyote comes across one of their spell books and instead of using shoddy acme products to catch the Roadrunner he decides to use a bit of magic . Though some of the timing is off . I didn't think the joke with the levitating boulder was funny at all and everyone could see it coming . Though the last few moments with the flying horse , the train , the scorpions and the flying shark were hilarious . A series of increasing misfortune making for a great end .
A chilling twist on reality TV .	While reality TV is a long dead horse endlessly being flogged this action movie is so fresh and new and exciting . John Herzfield will make a great writer / director in the future if all of his output is this cool . I cannot believe that this is the same guy who wrote Turbulence and Stallone's dismal 1986 movie Cobra . I thought that Edward Burns and Robert DeNiro had excellent chemistry together and made a great team as the 2 good guys working for different factions . Their teaming up to catch the evil bad guys is very enjoyable . And the bad guys themselves are REALLY evil . The actors that played them were so good at oozing menace and greasy creepiness . A movie like this is made even better when you want the bad guys to be killed so much . Almost all scenes kick ass , especially when Edward Burns flicks the light-switch in the hooker's apartment and then the whole place bursts into flames . THAT is cool ! And when we see a graphic close-up of one of the bad guy's shot-up ankle ? ew ! The theme of the film is very satirical in how it deals with the media influencing law-enforcement and how almost everyone , be it for glamour or ghastliness , gets their Fifteen minutes of fame . The crude and ironic references to Frank Capra appeal to my morbid sense of humor . This film wasn't afraid to try anything new and daring . I mean what kind of film is brave enough to kill it's main character in the second act , especially when that character is played by Robert DeNiro . Kelsey Grammar's character was my fave tho . It's a shame he isn't in it much during the second act but it's hard not to like him . There is no convention or cliché here and I highly recommend this film . It seriously is so cool .
Infuriating , but great fun	Think of it like Tetris only with letters in the blocks . You've got to link up letters to make words . If you feed the bookworm too many small words he'll send down fiery red letters . You must use them right away before they blow up your whole game . Sound easy ? It's not . My longest word so far has been 8 letters . And did I mention the music is very , very cute . I've played the PC version , which , unlike the GBA version keeps high scores and has online ranking . There are online scores of about 50 billion . I don't think I'll be beating it . Nonetheless , it's quite possibly the most addictive game ever . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
As funny as it is weird	I first came across Birdman while on holiday in Majorca when I was 13 . I remember vividly watching it with these 2 hot German twins and laughing whenever he shouted ' Bi-ii-irdMAN ' . It was really , really corny . But this was back in the day when Cartoon Network didn't have much to show other than the really old-fashioned 1960's and 70's stuff . The last thing I ever imagined is that Birdman would come back in the 21st century to be re-invented as Harvey Birdman , Attorney at Law at the Sebben and Sebben law firm . He's a bit of a dunderhead . And a bighead and a sociophobe and rude but you can't help but love him . Avenger is still his sidekick ( only cuter than he was previously ) and his boss is Phil Ken Sebben , a one-eyed ladies man . Among the various , random people who work for the firm are Peanut ( a Birdman wannabe ) , Peter Potamus , Reducto and a big cuddly bear who always seems to be smiling ( and applauding all on his own at inappropriate moments ) . My fave character has to be Judge Mentok the Mindtaker ( OOOOO-EEEEEE-OOOOOO-EEEEEE ! ! ! ! ) , he just really , really funny . Harvey's typical cases involve him defending the likes of Shaggy and Scooby , Fred Flintstone , Boo-Boo and George Jetson . Getting in the way of cases going smoothly are and abundance of rapid-fire jokes that come at you from all angles and will probably disorientate you if you're not sure where they're coming from . Sometimes you might have to watch an episode twice as the the dialogue is usually delivered very quickly and you might lose your place among the cryptic references and wildly outlandish humor . In truth , it's a show for Adults . Even though the jokes are only mildly suggestive there is no way a child could fully understand everything that is going on unless they are an uber-uber-geek . This is a show made for people who love stuff like Family Guy , not Spongebob Squarepants . Oh , and I love that theme song . They must release some kind of soundtrack CD for this show . Why ? Because Mentok WILLS it so !
Best Vaction / Christmas Movie	Poor Clark Griswold , no matter how optimistic he is , his family vacations always seem to go severely wrong . First time around he went across America in a metallic pea Station Wagon and it ended in disaster . Then they went across Europe and met similar , albeit much less funny , results . For those of you who are unfamiliar with the Griswolds , Clark is food additives expert who works for a company that doesn't appreciate him . He sets high standards for holiday events that no one can live up to and is notorious for dragging his grudging family along on every painstaking detail of every scheme . His wife Ellen ( Beverly D'Angelo ) is the voice of reason , who keeps the family rooted in reality and responds with frequent deadpan bewilderment to his constant disasters . The long-suffering kids , Russ and Audrey ( Johnny Galecki and a very young Juliette Lewis ) have turned into the living embodiment of pure cynicism , but there's no talking any sense into Clark Griswold . Ever ! But now Clark just wants to stay at home in the snowy Chicago suburbs for a ' fun , old-fashioned , family Christmas ' and he's going to let nothing stop him . His enthusiasm for the holidays manages to infect the audience and you'll be rooting for him the whole way . He's an anti-Scrooge and if you're having a Christmas crisis then you need to watch this movie . Any disasters can be overcome . But that's easier said than done . He didn't bargain on bickering family members ( including the voice of Betty Boop , Mae Questel , as a senile old aunt ) , a house covered in non-working Christmas lights , a seriously over-cooked turkey , snotty Yuppie neighbors making fun of him or Cousin Eddie ( Randy Quaid ) and his hickabilly family turning up unannounced to sponge some Christmas cheer off him . What stops it from being just another generic Christmas movie is a brilliant script by John Hughes packed full of hilarious set-pieces and perfect comic timing from Chevy Chase . He's a great actor but his appeal sadly declined in the 90s when he refused to evolve into more serious roles like Bill Murray did . Clark Griswold and Fletch are probably his most famous roles and this Vacation is definitely one you need to take . It's hard to pick the best moments but Randy Quaid's sudden appearance will make you grin a mile wide , a cat wrapped up in a box ( with Happy Birthday paper ! ) that meets an unfortunate end and ' an asshole in his bathrobe emptying a chemical toilet into the sewer ' are just plain brilliant . But what gives Christmas Vacation something more that makes it so much more special that all the other Christmas movies is that wonderful theme song ! It's absolutely brilliant ! But that ain't the only great tune the film as to offer . There are also some classic songs by Ray Charles , Bing Crosby and Gene Autry . Although not the best of the bunch ( Harold Ramis ' direction had an evil edge to the first film that made it just that little bit better ) , this film has become a Yuletide classic and must be watched every year . Since Christmas is full of annual traditions this film is definitely one you should add to the list . It would criminal to give it anything less that the highly coveted .
Absolute Comedy Classic	Every single scene in this movie rocks big-time . It's hard to say which of the actors steal the show as Chase , Knight , Dangerfield and Murray try their best to run away with the movie . But if I had to make a decision I would have to say that this IS Dangerfield's movie . His sleazy , friendly , insulting , buffoonish and graciously tipping character is the centrepiece of this movie , which pre-dates the Airplane-style humor of visual gags and jokes . There ain't much plot but there is still more than there is in the standard comedy modern movies . The film cuts to about 5 different sub-plots at regular intervals . The funniest of which being Murray's ever ridiculous attempts to catch a pesky gofer . I love those scenes . The gopher looks so fake and so cute , he's literally a stuffed toy being moved by hand off-camera . Ted Knight's Judge Smails is a hoot . The pompous and self-important arrogance mixes well with his cluelessness of how to be gentlemanly towards people and his clumsiness . He is bull-headed , acting without thinking and always letting his rage get the better of him . This is a perfect personification of the majority of courtroom Judges . Chase does a good job as hedonistic playboy golfer Ty Webb and his ONLY scene with Bill Murray is THE best pure dialogue scene in film history . The total crap that they talk is funny as hell . And so is the whole movie . Forget the sequel . See this movie when you get the chance . The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby Mono sound .
The first game I ever completed	Saboteur was a great game ( in 1985 ) and as a four-year-old I was mighty pleased with myself when I finished it on my own with no help from the grown-ups . You played a ninja who arrives by dinghy to a huge industrial complex , intent on committing some evil act . All you really did was take one computer disc and put it in the mainframe to wipe it out or something . Honestly , it's been like 20 years since I played it . But I vividly remember climbing up and down loads of ladders , falling down lift shafts , taking out guards , going around in those cool subway trams and escaping in the helicopter . Since I am blessed with the useless gift of having a photographic memory I memorised my way around the entire complex ( yes , even when I was 4 ) and ended up completing the game several times over . Just for the fun of it . These days I can't even look at a game I have already finished . For a dated game on the truly ancient Sinclair ZX Spectrum this was brilliant . Most retro games of this age I would find hard to enjoy today but I know I would have fun playing Sabotuer again . And I'd probably still remember my way around .
A vastly superior sequel . Absolutely brilliant .	' Silent , Invisible , Invincible . He's in town with a few days to kill . ' Has there ever a tagline cooler than this ? I'm telling you there hasn't . Long , long , long underrated Predator 2 seems to be finally getting the recognition and respect it deserves . Why all of a sudden ? Because when standing next to the extremely crap AvP , it looks like pure gold to those miserable cynics who disregarded it when it first came out because Arnie was not in it . Fair enough , a Terminator , Conan or even Commando film without Arnie just wouldn't work . But the 7-foot tall , Rastafarian , otherworldly hunter is the star of this film and this time round he gets much , much more screen time . We all know what the Predator is so Stephen Hopkins shows off this ace instead of hiding it up his sleeve . The year is 1997 and the City of Angels is boiling under a 109-degree heatwave . Columbian and Jamaican drug lords have turned the streets into a war-zone . The police are out-manned and out gunned and incompetent . The last thing they need to deal with is the Predator . The titular hunter has returned with an increased arsenal of weapons and is keen on slicing and dicing the aforementioned druggies for fun . During a brutal gun-battle on the streets he watches Lieutenant Mike Harrigan ( Danny Glover ) , a slightly-crazed renegade cop , blow away half a dozen Columbian scumbags and chooses him as his ultimate prey . Naturally , Harrigan and his ethnically diverse team of cops have enough problems without having to worry about their skulls ending up in the Pred's intergalactic trophy cabinet . Making matters worse is faux-DEA Agent Peter Keyes ( Gary Busey ) who pretends to be after the druggies but is really more interested in swiping the Pred's advanced technology . Yeah , good luck with that ! From start to finish Predator 2 is brash , unsubtle , in-your-face wall-to-wall action . A hectic , breathtaking succession of non-stop , increasingly exciting set-pieces . The final 45 minutes will you wetting yourself with excitement I kid you not . While Hopkins ( fresh from his Nightmare on Elm Street 5 debut ) has remained constantly employed he's never really become a star director , which is a shame since he has a slick , cartoonish style and is far more talented than most other anonymous directors . Like John McTiernan did in the first , he provokes a dusty , sweaty and overbearingly hot atmosphere in the daytime scenes and an alien , Gothic feel to night ( pun intended ) . The way he captures LA on film just makes you NEVER want to go there . Fans of Alan Silvestri's score of the first film can take comfort in the fact that all of his cool themes are back ( they were rudely ditched for AvP ) and more evolved . It's probably the most engaging score he's done . His Latin drums , sinister , shrieking , Hermann-esquire strings , yawning , haunting urban sound effects and occultist voodoo chants dominate every scene and give each one its own unique voice . But it ain't just that . Everything from set-design and cinematography to sound-design and film editing is nothing short of brilliant . If you think I'm overreacting just watch the film and see for yourself . There's nothing mass-produced or conveyor-belt about Predator 2 . Twentieth Century Fox chucked loads of money at it to make it the most sophisticated sequel it could be . Everyone involved seems to have made a huge effort and done their absolute best . It's sad that action films like this are not made anymore . Predator 2 is a classic , the kind of movie that feels torn straight from the pages of a 1950's pulp detective novel and crossed with a Twilight Zone episode . , no doubt .
A cheap , but funny and light-hearted sequel	Though being a fan of Robert E . Howard's short stories I must say that funny and light-hearted are definitely NOT the words I would use to describe Conan . The story this time has Conan go on a mission for the seductive Queen Taramis ( she can be my queen ANY day ) . He must retrieve a gemstone which unlocks another treasure called the Horn of Dagoth . A treasure that will bring to life an Evil God . Conan doesn't care as Taramis ( who was NOT a villain in Howard's short stories , her twin sister Salome however , definitely was ) has promised to bring back his dead girlfriend from the first film . And so with his ragtag group of companions : Malak ( a comedy sidekick , but what happened to Subotai from the original ? ) , Zula ( Grace Jones , wearing no more than a couple of inches of leather floss ) , Akiro ( Mako , the only returning cast member from the original ) , Bombaata ( on a secret mission to kill Conan ) and the virgin Princess Jehnna , Conan takes off on his mission . The first film was very , very serious but this one plays more like The Dark Crystal than a Conan film . The effects and sets are very typical of early ' 80s fantasy movies . The violence , though not entirely muted , has been toned down somewhat . Plus Conan talks a lot more in this one . I don't have a problem with this part as he is quite cunning and intelligent in Robert E . Howard's stories . I felt they kind of sold him short in the first film by limiting his dialogue . Some scenes reek of cheapness . The Toth-Amon / Man-Ape scene is so ridiculously fake . It makes you wonder how the filmmakers took it seriously . But it all it really does is add to the kitschy hokum of it all . And hokum and weirdness is what Howard's stories were all about . Basil Poledouris ' music is the one part of the film that is totally up to scratch . It's not as heavy as his score to the first film but he does introduce new , stronger themes and lighter takes on cues from the first . And the ending , featuring the resurrected Dagoth reduced to a sub-Godzilla demon is just plain stupid . Not silly . Even a few more minutes of thought put into this would have made it much better . It's a lot more formulaic and ' Hollywood ' than the first . No new ground is broken and it's obviously a film made quickly to cash in on the success of CtB . Another way in which Conan has been sold short . You can tell with some gimmicks present in both films that they were trying to turn this into a long-running series . A shame that never happened . Conan the Destroyer is silly , entertaining fun . But it lacks the serious impact of the original . Oh well , we'd better just sit tight until King Conan : Crown of Iron comes out , whenever that may be . Forget the shoddy , non-anamorphic , mono-sound tracked R1 DVD and get the R2 version . It has a much better cover-art and loads of extras including : commentaries , features and a brand new 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture and Dolby 5 . 1 sound .
Black Magickal	This review contains some slight spoilers . Many people say that John Carpenter does either GREAT or VERY BAD films . I think his only two duds were Escape from LA and Village of the Damned . But he is one of my two fave directors ( David Lynch is the other ) and this is one of his best movies . It may seem confusing at first but trust me ? it does make sense . The premise of this film fascinates me . What happens when the line between fantasy and reality disappears and creatures from fiction can exist in the real world ? Wow ! This makes the basis of a totally cool movie . John Carpenter always used 2 . 35 : 1 photography and in this film we get a screen filled with creepy imagery and cool locations . The film was shot entirely in Canada in 1993 and was released in 1995 . It is set basically in the city and in the fictional town of Hobbs End . When I say that Hobbs End is fictional I really mean it . In the film the town does not exist but Sam Neill ends up there . Some dark magick / logic at work methinks . This is definitely a horror film for the thinking audience . If you like your horror deep , intriguing and downbeat without being depressing ? you'll LOVE this one .
Brilliant adventure game	Featuring brilliant animation and cool puzzle-solving , Scooby-Doo Mystery plays like one of the old-fashioned text adventure games only loads more fun and with a ' point and click ' style gameplay . The game has 2 separate cases . The first is Blake Hotel in which Daphne's uncle has been kidnapped and it's up to Shaggy and Scooby to find him . The backgrounds and environment of the snowbound hotel are very atmospheric and it's loads of fun exploring everywhere looking for clues . Of the 2 cases I prefer this one . The second case is the Ha Ha Carnival where an evil clown is running loose creating havoc . Shaggy and Scooby must explore the whole amusement park and figure out a way to catch him . It's not as atmospheric as the first but still has great animation . Some of the best seen on the Sega Genesis . As expected , Shaggy and Scooby are the only gang members who do anything as Fred , Daphne and Velma wander off in one of their usual ' splitting up ' manoeuvres . This doesn't bother me as Shaggy and Scooby are what the show is really about anyway . Scooby-Doo mystery is so vivid and detailed that it's almost like an episode that you control . The only complaint that I can think of would be the rather repetitive music that only gets on your nerves in the second case . If you can find this game anywhere it is well worth your time and money . Maybe a bit too hard for kids though . Graphics Sound C Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
The start of a great franchise ?	Originally planned as the first of a series , Young Sherlock Holmes was a bit of a misfire at the box office . It cost $18 million and only grossed about 20 per cent of its budget back . In the years since its release it has become a cult film for those who can appreciate it for the blockbuster it never was . I personally discovered it on a Christmas Eve showing on BBC in the late 80s . Even then , I thought it was great despite it being a darker Christmas film than we're used to . In a snowy and sinister December at the height of the Victorian Era , Watson , as a teenager , is sent to Brompton , a private school in a fogbound London , when his old one is shut down due to lack of funding . Upon arrival , he meets a violin-playing smart-Alec who deducts his character from his mere appearance . It's the beginning of a life-long friendship . Holmes ' life on campus is rather cosy . He has a pretty girlfriend Elizabeth ( Sophie Ward ) and her uncle , Professor Waxflatter , is a crackpot inventor of the Doc Brown variety who lives in the school attic with all of his crazy inventions . At first , Watson and Holmes have fun getting up to mischief on campus but a series of bizarre suicides soon distracts them . The local Inspector Lestrade is too lazy to do anything about it , leaving them free to investigate . Apparently the victims are all sane , happy men who seem to go suddenly mad with fear and hurl themselves to the nearest oncoming death . Things get personal when Waxflatter suffers the same fate and stabs himself in fit of madness . Why are ordinary men going crazy ? Who is the mysterious black robed person hiding in the shadows ? What dark secret was Waxflatter hiding ? All questions to which Holmes demands answers and he drags along the nervous Watson and Elizabeth as he scours all the dodgy areas of Wapping talking to loads of cockneys and people who call you ' Govna ' . What they discover is an ancient blood oath and a huge conspiracy brewing in the spooky alleyways . In the 80s , Chris Columbus penned a string of imaginative movies from Gremlins to The Goonies and later he directed the Home Alone films as well as Bicentennial Man ( yes , I like it ) and the first two Harry Potters . He's one of those writers who can hide a surprising amount of darkness in a kid's film and Young Sherlock is a fine example of his most sophisticated writing . With strong direction from Barry Levinson and enchanting production values from Steven Spielberg there's no denying that this movie looks absolutely great . But it's how it sounds that'll really impress you . Bruce Broughton - a tragically under-rated composer who has talent equal to John Williams - has been unfairly slumming most of his career in TV movies . Here , he delivers one of the most spellbinding and Gothic scores you have ever heard . There are dozens of themes , moments of real magic , evil menace and breathtaking action . If this film had been a hit it really would have become as famous as themes for Jaws , Indiana Jones and Harry Potter . And speaking of Harry Potter , one cannot deny that JK Rowling was inspired by this film in many ways when creating her Potter universe . I'm not crude enough to list all the similarities in this review but let me just say that while there may not be anywhere near enough to call it plagiarism there sure is more than enough to call it a coincidence . Watch the film and you'll know what I mean . Originally the critics dismissed Young Sherlock Holmes as another effects-filled Spielberg fantasy , but that's an unfair judgement . The visual effects ( really quite something for its time ) are essential to the story as well as being pioneering . You may not believe it but YSH was actually the first ever film to feature a fully CGI character ( a stained-glass knight who comes alive ) , created by Pixar . Future Toy Story director John Lasseter was even one of the computer wizards who helped bring it to life . Unfortunately it lost its well-deserved Academy Award to the inferior effects of Cocoon . Even 20 years on a sequel definitely needed . Chris Columbus has stated he was upset that a sequel never got off the ground and that the series never took off . He shouldn't sell himself short . Of course it would need new actors but so many have put on the hat and coat of Sherlock Holmes that the role doesn't belong to just one man . There is still life in this spin-off franchise . All it needs is the right story and some of the magic that is missing from most kids ' films these days . And when I say kids ' films I should really play-down the negative connotations of such a label . As one of the first PG-13 rated films , YSH has a bit of a savage edge , a hardness unfamiliar the condescending kids ' films of today . Sir Arthur would be proud . He may have felt indifferent towards his most famous creation , but if he were alive today he would have loved this film . And it well and truly deserves . This surely one DVD you must get . The 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic picture looks great and the Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack sounds good considering it has been remastered from plain old stereo . The only extra is a trailer .
A Masterpiece	While chasing Bugs Bunny thru the mountains , Elmer and Bugs happen upon a concert performance of Rossini's opera ' Il barbiere di Siviglia ' . Seizing the opportunity to cause major mayhem and trickery , Bugs hijacks the opera for his own wicked plans . Now Bugs and Elmer are the stars of the show and pain , torture and humiliation come in that order . The animation , timing , music and editing are all absolutely perfect in this cartoon . Surely one of the finest Looney Tune efforts containing all the anarchy , madness and insanity they are famous for plus enough intelligence and cleverness to put a roomful of NASA experts to shame .
Chilling , atmospheric and utterly terrifying !	Though the game has been around for years I've never taken interest in Resident Evil until recently . I got the game for dirt cheap and was surprised how good it is . I saw my cousin play the old Playstation version years ago and was unimpressed but for the Gamecube the graphics have been re-rendered to absolute lifelike perfection . The shadows , the sound , the ambiance and those thunderclaps . . . all highly , highly realistic . Play this with your Gamecube hooked up to your home theatre . And like me , you'll totally jump out of your skin at the scary parts ( many of them ) . My main hint is conserve your ammo . If you see a zombie , put it down right away ( no funny stuff ) and burn it . Take care of them one at a time . And if you don't burn them they will soon come back as Crimson Heads-faster , deadlier , scarier . Much like the Myst series , Resident Evil is one of those games where you have to keep your eyes and ears open . Clues and puzzle pieces are scattered all over the place and you need to pay attention . Don't be put off by the size of the mansion . After a short while it's easy to get your bearing and find your way through rather easily . Though I will be honest with the fact I did not understand most of the story . I have no idea what Trevor's diary from 1968 had to do with the plot and I really didn't get why Umbrella would create the T-Virus . I know there are various ways to finish and complete the game though . Especially seeing as how there are many clips during the end credits that did not happen in my game play ( I did it in just over 8 hours ) . If you finish it in certain time frames the next one is always different somehow . I only managed to unlock a new outfit for Chris . Wow ! My only gripe is about those boring ' door opening ' cut scenes . They really got on my nerves . Still , it's a chilling game that will freak you out if you play alone in the dark . Well worth the time and money .
Marvelous Restoration	I can't believe the clarity of this DVD . You could swear that this movie was made yesterday by the eye popping color . I've seen some great restorations but this is by far the best , even moreso considering that this film is now 64 years old . Disney have outdone themselves . The movie itself is entertaining although it does seem a bit European at times . It does not take place in any particular country but some of the dwarves sound like they are from Kentucky . The abundance of cute animals and a surprisingly cruel villain keep this story watchable . I mean we have heard it a million times before but the dwarves have more character than Snow White who does nothing but look pretty . And who doesn't want the Evil Queen to get what's coming to her . The supplements on the DVD are MASSIVE and too many to even mention . Let me just say that if you are a fan of the film you certainly WON'T be disappointed . This baby is loaded and bursting at the seams . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 full frame and is in Dolby 5 . 1 .
Build yourself a static with the ghosts up in the attic .	I first saw Face Like A Frog ( or at least part of it ) on an episode of Liquid Television when I was about 10 years old . I absolutely loved , LOVED the " Don't Go In The Basement " song and I had no idea that it was part of a larger animated short until recently . The cartoon is mostly unintelligible first time around ( and none the worse for it ) but it features a frog going into a cursed house to sort it out . . . and that's basically it . But the colors , characters and background are all so brilliantly surreal and exaggerated you'd be forgiven for thinking you've gone on the ultimate acid trip . Directed and animated by Sally Cruikshanks , Face Like A Frog displays an exceptional imagination and talent . I'm amazed to find that she hasn't gone on to do much more . For a utterly surreal and dreamlike five minutes , look no further than this short .
Absolutely wonderful TV show	I first saw Mork and Mindy when I was about five and thought it was the funniest thing on earth . I would even sit on my head like Mork did and I had some of the Mork toys too . So it's obvious I would grab this DVD box set as soon as it came out . And is Mork and Mindy as good today as it was back then ? Of course ! In fact it might be even better coz when you compare it to modern sitcoms M & M has more integrity as Robin Williams and Pam Dawber seem to be performing to a much rawer audience with more theatrical performances . Robin Williams is just completely crazy as Mork ( from Ork ) , an alien sent to Earth to investigate our strange customs and report back telepathically to Orson , his boss . Mindy is the girl he meets who gives him a home in her attic , much to the annoyance of her cynical dad . And , trust me , you can clearly see that Robin Williams often gives up the script to manically ad-lib his own madness while Pam Dawber runs after him , desperately trying to keep the show under control . It's so cool in certain moments when they're close together during a manic moment and she's looking into his eyes in amazement , petrified at what he's about to do next . He would also go crazy off-stage in an effort to distract Dawber when she had a scene on her own . Supporting characters are also cool . Mr Bickley , Mindy's dad and grandma , Eugene and the outrageous Exidor all grab as much attention as they can whenever Williams isn't going mental . David Letterman , Dana Hill , Tammy Lauren , Morgan Fairchild , Penny Marshall and Geoffrey Lewis show up in cameos too . Plus Fonzie is the first episode ( a flashback to Mork's first ever appearance in Happy Days ) . There are NO FEATURES AT ALL on the DVDs . Which is annoying seeing as how this time I would have liked to have seen stuff . But I'm just glad to have it . Hey , Paramount , give us Season 2 NOW ! ! ! The show is presented in 1 . 33 : 1 full frame , as originally shot . And for a 27 year old show it looks great with very little in the way of print damage or grain . The sound is plain old mono but it's fine for what it is . You MUST buy .
The most indescribably brilliant movie in years .	This is probably the most difficult film to review ever . The Fountain isn't going to sound like much if I give you just a brief plot synopsis . But I'll give it a go . Tom Creo , a brilliant Doctor , is searching for a cure for cancer . His wife Izzy is dying and his research on Monkeys only seems to mysteriously reverse the ageing process . The secret ingredient to his new medicine is taken from a magic tree in South America . The tree of life , or the fountain of youth . Whatever you want to call it . As Izzy slips away , Tom becomes intrigued with her unfinished novel The Fountain . It turns out that the novel is about Tom and Izzy's past lives as a Spanish Queen and Captain in South America hundreds of years ago . And the only way Tom can finish the book is if he stays around for the future , when he can literally take the long-dead Izzy into the heavens . Phew ! That sounds disconcertingly strange , but trust me it's an amazing experience . Hugh Jackman and Rachel Weisz are brilliant , delivering multi-layered performances . The dialogue avoids soap opera clichés of dying young and instead is filled with many philosophic double meanings and a lot of undeclared emotions . I could go on for ages about how good it all is from the direction , gorgeous cinematography , beautiful score , flawless storytelling etc . But I think you get the point already . What The Fountain mostly resembles is the most beautiful , otherworldly dream you've ever had but can barely remember . It's a hypnotic movie filled with moments that will stay with you forever . Just when you think the film has given you all that it has to offer it surprises you with more and more amazing revelations . To deny yourself a movie like this would be a heinous act . There's just so much about it I can rave on about . But I won't . Go see for yourself .
What does it take to get a movie made around here ?	Blowing your brains out is the answer and that's just what Daffy Duck ends up doing . The cartoon opens in the office of one of the Warner Brothers producers . Daffy is trying to get him interested in making a movie from his 1000 page script ' The Scarlet Pumpernickel ' . Daffy plays a swashbuckling hero / thief who would like for no more than to marry his maiden in peril . But Sylvester is out to catch him and take her for himself . The producer likes Daffy's script but need a bigger ending . How about a tidal wave ? Not good enough ? And a volcano explodes ? Not good enough . But there's nothing left for the Scarlett Pumpernickel to do but blow his brains out ? Blam ! I love that Duck .
Prizewinning pets	Jon watches some braindead TV show about folks with pets who can do amazing tricks . Garfield and Odie , desperate for love and attention , prove to Jon that they're even better when they do their own little act for him . So Jon takes them on TV where they win the competition ( by default ) . The success goes to Jon's head and the gang go off to Hollywood to compete in the final round for bigger prizes . Now all the other acts are more sophisticated and better . All Garfield and Odie can do is their best . It's not the best Garfield TV special but it's still quite good and the cozy image of the Hollywood Hills is rather cute .
Yet more Garfield brilliance	I totally love the Garfield TV specials . You can always rely on them for intelligent and classy humor and ' In the Rough ' is no exception . In this one Garfield , Odie and Jon go camping in the Lake Wobegone forest . But there's a massive escaped Puma on the loose and it's looking for lunch . Brilliant songs , a clever short story and undeniable cuteness make this one of the best Garfield TV specials ( well they all are really ) . Catch it on TV whenever you can or just go out and buy the DVD . And I know I say it all the time , but if only the terrible Garfield movie was this good . .
Very creepy	If you're a fan of movies like " Dead Poets Society " or " The Truman Show " you should note that director Peter Weir's earlier movie " Picnic At Hanging Rock " is one of the best movies ever made . The story is based on a novel by Joan Lindsey who bases her novel on fact . On Valentines Day in the early 1900s a class of girls from a boarding school go for a picnic at the titular outcrop . 3 of them walk off into the rocks and . . . vanish . No explanation ever given . Because there is no explanation to this day . No one knows what happened to themBut what's even weirder is that they are all in some sort of trance when they leave . It is VERY scary in a strange way . This sometimes used to keep me awake at night because I thought it was a true story . I guess no one will EVER really know but if you want to see all the clues so far . . . watch this brilliant film .
Cool animated movie	But unfortunately my fave character is not in it much , his name is Geese Howard and he is only in a few scenes . But that's a minor quibble . The plot is about Terry Bogard falling in love with a girl named Sulia who's brother is wrecking havoc all over the world searching for a suit of armor that will make him a God . Sounds like something from an Indiana Jones movie but it works well and there's enough humor and pathos mixed in with all the mighty kicking-of-ass to keep others interested who do not like martial arts . Of course the story could be stronger with more developments but at 95 minutes you'll be darned if you can find another animated movie or even live action that crams in so much adventure , color and light-hearted thrills into its running time . I am a big fan of the series and of the entire Garou Densetsu / Fatal Fury franchise and I hope a sequel follows soon .
One of the best platform shooters EVER !	I first played Turrican on the C64 when I was about 10 and it was amazing . Recently I have rediscovered it on the Sega Genesis / Mega Drive and it is every bit as brilliant now as it was back then . What set Turrican aside from all the other platform games out there is the sheer size of the levels and the amount of exploration you can do . Everything is vividly detailed and it's full of eye candy . Plus the music it to it was some of the best ever heard on the C64 . However I did find the Sega interpretation of this music to be somewhat dull and nowhere near as lively and upbeat . It's also one of the very few games I managed to complete without cheating , I felt very proud when I was a kid but I must confess to using the Game Genie to finish the , much harder , Sega version . You play a man in a suit of advanced armor ( the Turrican suit ) who must fight against loads of aliens and machines in order to save the earth . It looks a lot like Metroid for the NES in fact . And I'm kind of sad that although it spawned a few sequels , Turrican never really took off to be such a successful franchise like Metroid did . I really do think that a new Turrican game on a console such as the GBA or Nintendo DS would be a great idea . The game has such potential to work brilliantly as a new title on newer hardware . Overall , it's a great game and it was released on so many old-school consoles that you must have come across it at some point . If so you'll know what I mean when I say it should be brought back . Graphics A Sound B Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
Mind-blowing	I've only ever seen 3 IMAX films and this is one of them . I was totally blown away by the incredible sound and photography . I had to study every shot because there is so much in it . It's not actually a movie like other IMAX films ( such as Across the Sea of Time and T-Rex ) but more of a documentary about how we are all islanders and how we live because the sea lives . It was surprisingly effective in this sense . My fave part was the discovery of the new underwater fish and the fish that had , what looked like , thousands of little lights flashing on and off . A scene with a boat fighting waves and crashing back down onto the sea was better than anything in The Perfect Storm . The sound in this particular scene is IN-CRED-IBLE . Whenever you pass by an IMAX check to see whether or not they are showing this masterpiece . You'll love it .
Another great Scooby Doo	The mystery may be a little weaker than in previous Scooby movies but this is still well worth your time and showcases the huge potential in the revamped Scooby franchise . The Mystery Inc . gang break down in the desert ( déjà vu ? ) and have to stay the night in a nearby town where the locals rant about aliens kidnapping cattle . So obviously they are up for investigation . I still don't like those stupid sound effects that are STILL ( ! ! ! ! ! ! ) used when Scooby or Shaggy BEGIN to run away . You know what I'm talking about . It sounds like someone rattling a quarter around in a tin can . It's pretty lame , considering all the thought and effort that has went into updating the franchise , that these old-fashioned and cruddy sound effects are being used in this day and age . But that aside there is a lot of fun to be had as Shaggy falls in love ( his song is way cool ) , is kidnapped by the aliens along with Scooby and the gang suspecting a rather unfriendly mechanic . Scooby Doo is going places ( even further if they do away with those sound effects ) and next time the writers should focus more on plot and mystery as this one was wrapped up in a disappointingly short 74 minutes . The movies that followed progressively got weaker and weaker .
Great story about friendship .	Most feature-length movies achieve only half of what Here Comes Garfield does . Even though it's only 24 minutes long . Garfield and Odie may have a love / hate relationship but deep down they need each other . The feline and the canine torment an old neighbor , who promptly calls the animal pound , who takes Odie away . Garfield bids good riddance but later at night the guilt and dread of a missing Odie overpowers him and he sets about rescuing him from the pound . Garfield may have come from a simple comic strip but there are some touching moments in this TV Special that prove why he has been so consistently popular for the past 25 years . The animation mimics Jim Davis ' early incarnation of Garfield ( this was made in 1982 ) and although it's not as refined as the modern Garfield he's still the same great , fat cat . The late Lorenzo Music is his voice ( or thoughts ) , though Thom Huge is not the voice of John , he would appear in the further TV Specials and the later TV Series . A genuine classic .
Brilliant movie	But it should have been longer . I distinctly remember an entirely different ending in the book . I also do not remember any 1950's communist paranoia in the book or the character of Hogarth being so young . But the changes do not harm the movie and the ending this film has is just fine . There are obviously no opening credits to the film so guessing the voices is cool fun . But it's impossible to guess who plays the Iron Giant . But the Iron Giant himself is a wonderful hero . It's cool to watch him learn simple things and having him eat cars is a neat little characteristic . I like when he's bored and he plays with the hood with one of the cars in the junkyard . You cannot dislike the Iron Giant . I think it was a wise and creative decision to make this cartoon in 2 . 35 : 1 . Most cartoons by Disney are in 1 . 85 : 1 or even worse ? in 1 . 66 : 1 . Warner did a great job with this movie . These days it seems that Dreamworks SKG and Disney seem to do all the feature length animations . But Warner beat them all in 1999 with this movie . My only gripe is that it should have been longer . At 87 minutes , it's all over too quick . But it's still cool .
Very bold and intense horror and a great DV	While I fully appreciate and respect the tastes of others , let me just say I have no idea why the original is held in such high regard . It was truly one of the worst films I have ever seen . Nothing happened in it . There was ZERO suspense or excitement , the dialogue was barely audible and it felt like another half of it was missing . I hated it and I am so puzzled why so many people love that film . Granted , back in 1973 it may have been easier to scare audiences and the low-budget nature of the original may have contributed to the ugly look of the film but I see no reason to credit the original director ( Tobe Hooper ) with any of the film's so-called qualities . The man's career fell flat on it's face soon after and I think his most famous movie was something of a fluke . It would not have succeeded today . Obviously , as I just said , audiences today are exposed to a larger number of movies and can choose and discriminate more easily . There are some who will say the only people who can enjoy this will be degenerate teenagers who don't know what real horror is . And some who will call the film to glossy . But none of this I find fair criticism . I am , in no way , a fan of Michael Bay or any of his movies . But he had the right idea in keeping the budget very low for this movie ( $8 million ) and seems to be more skilled in packaging and producing than directing . The film is not ' glossy ' or ' clean ' . The equipment use to make the film is more sophisticated than that on the original but this is not ' The Rock ' or ' Armageddon ' and there are no hundred-shots-in-a-second and flashy camera tricks . They all tried their best to pull of a nervous , raw horror film that stands on it's own and I think they have . This was sooooooo much better than the first . The characters actually HAVE character this time . I got on their side , I got involved in the action ( yes , there is action this time , and a LOT of it ) and the acting was done well . Plus Jessica Biel is VERY hot . So many new dimensions and situations occur is this remake that elevates to something a zillion times what the original was . Don't automatically think that because Michael Bay is the producer that it's going to be some kind of sanitised and fashion-shoot Hollywood production . It is still a very edgy and intense film . It's rare that a Hollywood film manages to horrify and offend these days , so I'm very glad the new TCM went for a hard R-rating . The tone is so filthy and depraved that you will definitely need to shower soon afterwards . THAT'S how close you get to the action . Even the character of Thomas ' Leatherface ' Hewitt has a lot more to do this time . He's not quite Jason Voorhees but he's still an incredibly mean bad guy you'd NEVER want to mess with or come within 10 miles of . And in case you're wondering , he's played by the same dude who played Butterfinger , the big , dumb blonde guy from Hudson Hawk . Only this time he's not so cuddly . Not since 8mm almost 5 years ago have I seen a film where the bad guys ( there's more than one ) are nothing but the blackest of all evil . R . Lee Ermey was terrific ( as usual ) as the disgusting Sheriff and any fans of him should only expect the most badass of performances . Second to Dawn of the Dead ( and tying with House of 1000 Corpses ) this is one of the best horror movies I have seen in a long time . The Platinum Series DVD is just awesome . The 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture is superb and the Dolby 6 . 1 / DTS ES soundtracks are incredible . You'll really think Leatherface is chainsawing his way into YOUR living room . There are also a massive load of interesting extras including a 75-minute documentary , deleted scenes , a documentary on serial killer Ed Gein ( who was ' supposedly the inspiration for the original but Tobe Hooper denied these rumors ) and screen test footage . The packaging is awesome with a metal plate stuck on the front cover and ' crime scene ' photos in a little envelope tucked into back . It completes a great package of a great DVD of a great movie . Buy it ! ! !
Best comedy I've seen in ages .	I have laughed so hard or so frequently in so long , too long . Orange County is quite possibly one of the best comedies of the past few years . I absolutely love it . To be honest I had little faith in Jake Kasdan after Zero Effect ( which had Zero Effect on me ) but this movie shows he has a real sense of humor and he balances it perfectly with outrageous characters and an untypically good-natured comedy plot . Shaun Brumner ( Colin Hanks in a wacky performance ) is refused entry to Stanford University because his dunderheaded College Counsellor mailed them the wrong the transcripts . He recruits his slobbish brother ( an even wackier Jack Black ) and his girlfriend to help him in increasingly desperate and far-fetched methods of convincing Stanford to reconsider . It may sound like a dumb story but the characters and situations surrounding it provoke the maximum amount of laughter . The two leads are particularly impressive and show natural comic genius that makes me beg for more from these characters . Keep a look out for loads of cameos from Chevy Chase , Harold Ramis , Ben Stiller and Kevin Kline . And it's loads better than that crappy O . C . TV show . The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . The extras are great with a commentary from Kasdan , deleted scenes which actually should have stayed in the movie and loads of TV spots with scenes especially created . You must get this . Everybody needs to laugh and laugh you will .
Pull the string ? ! ? !	If you have watched Glen Or Glenda , Bride Of The Monster , or Plan 9 From Outer Space , you'll know all about cringe-worthy entertainment . These movies are so outrageously bad that you'll enjoy them , no doubt , but you'll have to look away whenever it gets REALLY bad . What was Ed Wood thinking ? At least , his cast had the excuse that a paycheck is a paycheck . Call it irony , but Tim Burton has assembled a fine cast of character actors and made a film about the worst director of all time , that cost more than all of Ed Wood's movie budgets put together . Say what you want about him , but 50 years after his monstrosities were produced , people are still watching them . I doubt you could guarantee the same for Pearl Harbor , or Road To Perdition . Martin Landau carried away an Academy Award , as Best Supporting Actor , as did Rick Baker for his make up effects . But , even with these selling points , audiences never gave it a chance , which is a real shame because the movie needs to be seen to be believed . Chronicling the events of the mid-Fifties , through the production of the aforementioned turkeys , Tim Burton's biopic achieves the impossible . We , the audience , side with Ed , despite the fact that if he was alive today , he would be subjecting us to some truly god-awful crap ( coughmichaelbaycough ) . Alternately hilarious and touching , our sympathies lie with Wood and his ever loyal , declining co-star Bela Lugosi ( a barely recognisable Landau ) . Other characters pop up , including the hairy-as-hell Tor Johnson ( George ' The Animal ' Steele ) , a wannabe transsexual ( Bill Murray ) , a very , very buxom Elvira-type ( Lisa Marie ) , the most famous predictor in the land ( Jeffrey Jones ) and a beleaguered Orson Welles ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) - a typical assortment of rejects , failures and weirdos . Burton is inclined to produce a flop , when he indulges too much . Just as the audiences stayed away from Mars Attacks , they never even considered Ed Wood , because of the black-and-white photography , which was a truly inspired decision . One cannot imagine how much the movie's legitimacy would have been lessened , if it was in colour . I must assure you that , no matter how offbeat and strange it looks , this film is an absolute classic that begs to be seen . It may not be to everyone's taste , but it has a wicked sense of humor and is sure to have you in stitches .
Hilarious !	This Cartoon Network Halloween Special has the Mystery Inc . gang pick up a hitchhiker , who just happens to be Gary Coleman and crash the Mystery Machine into a tree outside a spooky , old castle , run by David Cross of all people . David kindly lets the gang stay overnight and desperately tries to play down rumors of zombies started by his weirdo butler Shifty . But there is some kind of ghoul running around the castle , so the gang make it their mission to solve the mystery . The humor and animation style is very similar to Harvey Birdman : Attorney at Law with loads of bizarre , crazy moments and self-aware sarcasm . If you are a fan of either show then this TV special is a must-watch .
One giant leap for Rabbitkind !	Bugs Bunny ' volunteers ' somewhat reluctantly ( kicking and screaming ) to be the first earthling blasted into space . He perks up however when they fill the rocket to the brim with carrots . After a bone-crushing spell of g-force he lands a little too roughly on the moon and decides to go for a little sight-seeing . On his journey he meets Marvin the Martian ( who sounds a little bit different than usual ) and his usual plans to blow up the earth for some insane reason . As usual , hijinks and endless outsmarting follow , all to wonderful effect . It's in this type of anarchy and imagination that Bugs and the rest of the Looney Tunes prove how ingenious they really are .
Get it for one scene only	I'll be honest , I only bought this DVD for the fact that Nicola Holt is in it . I never liked her much when she was in Big Brother , she was far too loud and obnoxious for me , but as a porn star she's great . She turns up at one of Ben's many houses for her scene but first she does the obligatory talking to the camera bit first . Then she goes to change ( and boy does she have a hot body ) and slides down the stairs on the banister . Soon enough she's out of her clothes and gets involved and a terrific and energetic sex scene which includes anal and oral . Nicola is a brilliant porn star and I recommend you check out her other stuff . The rest of the girls on this DVD are not up to par and are of usual Ben Dover standard .
One of the best sci-fi films ever .	When a sequel is so many times better than the original , it's hard to believe that the first was so exciting and pioneering . James Cameron , fresh from his groundbreaking Terminator , proves he was no one-hit wonder by maintaining the perfect balance of action , suspense and sub-text . Fifty seven years after a lone Xenomorph killed everyone on the Nostromo , Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) awakes in a space station orbiting earth . Happy news does not greet her . Her only child has died an old lady and she has no life left to get back to . Plus , she is having disturbing nightmares and is facing charges of willful destruction of private property , which seems ludicrous when you consider that she destroyed the Nostromo before any of the " suits " were born . Back on LV426 , a family has stumbled upon the same mysterious spacecraft that John Hurt ventured into in Alien . And sure as sugar , the dad doesn't leave until a face-hugger is , well . . . hugging his face . Before you know it , the Company - actually called Weyland-Yutani - has lost contact with the entire colony on LV426 and Ripley is enrolled to help a bunch of Marines deal with the problem . Many Vietnam subtexts are played out as well as a more gentle subplot , in which Ripley becomes a surrogate mother to Newt ( Carrie Henn ) , an orphaned child , who has more guts and initiative than the entire platoon put together . Bill Paxton plays Hudson , the wimpiest but most likable Marine ever in movies . Lance Henriksen is Bishop , an android who tries to convince Ripley that he is not like the deceitful and perverted Ian Holm from the original . Michael Biehn is Hicks the reluctant corporal who takes charge of the futile mission after the first , scarifying attack by the Xenomorph . Cameron assaults us with so many shocks and stingers and keeps us on the edge of our seats for well over two hours . At one point Hudson says , " They're comin ' outta the goddamn walls " - you better believe it ! We never know where , or when , another alien will strike from the damp darkness and drag away a hapless Marine . And you can't shoot these monsters close-up because they'll spray acid blood all over you . Backing up the claustrophobic , nerve-wracking mayhem is James Horner's Academy Award nominated score , which is haunting and cold and thundering and bombastic . This is definitely not a film for the nervous , or those with a pacemaker . Rapid fire editing , tense close-ups and an extremely oppressive atmosphere , reeking of death , take over the movie . The final showdown with the massive , no-nonsense - but still quite feminine - Alien Queen is one of the best ever filmed . To think that Ridley Scott provoked so much tension and dread from just one is strange . When they are all over you , it makes for a superior sequel . The Director's Cut of Aliens is now considered the official one and is the only version you will find out there . If the movie doesn't scare you , Weaver's Afro will .
A simple but wonderful classic .	I will never forget the snowy Xmas of 1992 when I made the upgrade from the trusty old Commodore 64 to the Sega Genesis . I got about 1 game per week for the Genesis and tried just about everything . My first ever game tho was Sonic the Hedgehog . The gameplay was simple and that's the way I liked it . The graphics were cute . From bright blue sunshine and tropical landscapes to the cruel mechanical world of Doctor Robotnik ( now called the Eggman ) . The music was great ( where are the soundtrack CDs ? ? ? ) and I was never happier . Sure it was totally easy but I always went back for more . This game had such charm is it any wonder why Sonic is still so popular all these years on ?
Xmas , 12 years ago	. . this was the best selling Genesis game . Man , I really do miss the Genesis . I mean , for all the high tech , super-powered consoles we have today , such as the Gamecube and PS2 the Genesis had such a simple-charm . The games had great graphics AND awesome playability . Something you don't get together a lot these days . I remember Xmas in 1992 when I was 12 , walking around a snowy Edinburgh and seeing this game displayed proudly in all the toy / game shops . I really wanted it , I that it was the coolest thing . Then on Xmas morning I finally managed to get a Genesis , I got this game with it too and Xmas couldn't have been cooler . The music , the graphics , the highly-imaginative levels and Sonics way-past-cool pal Tails made this game truly great . There was some controversy at the time that the 3D graphics on the special stage caused epileptic fits but I never got any more than a headache . Games like this are what made the Genesis indisposable . If you still have one . . . hold onto it , don't sell it like I did .
Daffy lays a golden egg .	One day down on Porky's farm , a hen lays a golden egg but refuses to come forward because of what happened to the goose who once laid such a thing . Instead every other hen points to Daffy when Porky comes asking . Daffy , obviously shocked at such an accusation and too surprised to know what he's actually doing in a henhouse confirms or denies nothing . As soon as he's made famous in the media , Rocky the gangster kidnaps him and forces him to lay as many eggs as possible . You really do feel for Daffy in this one as , for the first time , he doesn't make the trouble for himself and panics as the threats mount and the golden eggs are not laid . Daffy is the best !
Beautiful	It took me 5 years to finish Riven and even then I did use a walkthrough to get to the very end . In retrospect , the game is not really that big ( compared to the sequels that would follow ) but the puzzles are very hard and you'll be scratching your head for hours . Unlike the original Myst , all of Riven takes place on one island so there is no hopping around in different ages . And what a beautiful place Riven is ! It's the perfect place to be . Unspoiled , atmospheric , brooding , foreboding and a calming quiet broken only by the distant surf . The photo-realistic graphics have greatly improved since Myst and almost any one screenshot would make the most pretty postcard . Robyn Miller once again does the music and it's that minimalistic and thinly melodic score the series used to have before Jack Wall came along in Myst III and changed all that . If you like that kind of thing then you should get the CD . It may be 8 years old now and technologically primitive in comparison to a lot of newer games but Riven is still as hauntingly captivating now as it was then . Graphics A Sound Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
The best movie in a long , long time .	I knew nothing of Christopher McCandless or the book of his life or even anything about this movie until I was sitting in the cinema . The only thing I knew is that Sean Penn was directing and having been very impressed with his gut-wrenching , if incredibly downbeat , The Pledge I was pretty much guaranteed to like this film . My guess turned out to be extremely correct . Alexander Supertramp ( that's Emile Hirsch as McCandless folks ) is a man with no attachments . Having been raised in a loveless household by parents who only wish for him to ' or-din-ary ' things he entertains them as far as graduating college but escapes to the country as soon as the diploma is in his hands . His dream is to explore the land with no ID , no money and no chance of being found by those who might want to interfere with his mission of reaching peaceful seclusion in a remote corner of Alaska . Along the way he touches many lives , some brief , some profound and gains experience and character that some might never have even if they lived to a hundred . Sean Penn's photography and affection for nature give this film an overall gorgeous look . It is surely one of the most uniquely composed films of the year . He reminds me a lot of Clint Eastwood as an actor who can also direct fine movies and encourage impressive performances out of his cast . Pretty much everybody here is on top form , even Vince Vaughn manages to shake off the taint of those tawdry ' frat pack ' comedies and play a genuine character for once . But Hal Holbrook as old Ron Franz really is a standout . I've never seen a more heartfelt or touching performance in so long . If he doesn't earn an Academy Award come Oscar-time then there ain't no justice in the world . I think it's great that Sean Penn brought Holbrook ( now 82 ) back for such an important and thought-provoking role . If you don't shed a tear for him then you have no soul . Don't con yourself out of a good movie . It may have a limited release but Into the Wild is a film worth taking time out to see . Since I live in the UK , the story of Christopher McCandless ( which appears to be some sort of true urban legend in America ) is not well known here . I guess that having no expectations of the film made me enjoy it on the right level . Definitely something I will be tracking down on HD DVD when it's released . PSI broke my tooth while watching this movie . Just ordinary chewing gum took a big chip out of one of my molars .
Mork and Mindy	Much like Mork left Ork to come to earth for the second time and visit Mindy McConnell , Prot leaves K-Pax to come to earth for the second time to visit Dr . Brewer , a psychiatrist who thinks that Prot is a crazy human but it becomes increasingly likely that he's the real deal . But there is a mystery to Prot's background , a mystery Dr . Brewer is determined to unravel and the way he does so , with the minimal of clues ( always the best in mysteries ) is quite clever and interesting . Kevin Spacey and Jeff Bridges ( forever THE DUDE whether he likes it or not ) are brilliant as alien and earthling . The whole movie is very beautifully made with wonderful use of rainbow colors , great editing , fun supporting characters and a delightful score by Edward Shearmur . Seriously , if you're stressed then this is THE movie to calm you down . Movies about aliens fascinated by strange earth customs are always enjoyable . Spacey might not be running around wild like the manic Robin Williams , quite the opposite actually , but his grace and dignity are far more than most humans match up to . K-Pax attempts some kind of ambiguity in the ending but if you hang around to the very end of the credits you'll realize that Dr . Brewer is still curious of Prot's origin's despite what his Robert Porter evidence is telling him . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 sound and loads of interesting extras .
Really good , and apparently under-rated , porn DV	I'm surprised that this DVD has got such a low rating as it's filled with loads of great sex scenes and many beautiful women . With no story or introductions it just cuts to what we want right away and delivers plenty of it . What's not to like ? It starts of with the wickedly attractive Coralie ( co-director of the controversial French thriller Baise-moi ) , who really fits her goth-girl look . She claims to be an expert in anal sex and has a wonderful shaven haven . She begins with regular sex before moving onto anal . Her next scene involves her getting a hard DP . It's great ! Next is the unbelievably cute and very sexy Lisa Sommer . In a mountain cabin she enjoys a vigorous DP followed by another scene with hard anal that includes vivid gapes . She's the highlight of the DVD . Monica , our next girl , is an alright-looking blonde who loves anal with a ' savage ' passion . She does an okay scene on a boat involving loads of anal . Her next scene is better and has a bit of DP action . Madelaine is next and claims to spend hours masturbating especially anally with dildos . Which is exactly what she does before the boring dildo action ends with an actual man entering the scene . Okay anal action follows . Liza Harper has a total of 4 scenes to herself . Her first scene is a hard anal on a secluded beach . Then she gets a DP from no less than 3 different guys . It's her best scene . Next she does a simple anal scene , which is fine . But her last scene is the one you'll freak at . She does anal , DP and double anal on a private yacht which appears to be cruising the French Riviera . But erm . . . before doing said DP and DAP she forgot to make sure that she was . . . clean . Inside and out if you know what I mean . How the director and editors missed this one is beyond me ! Also , the slow motion just makes it laughable . Next is Mokikat , who is a pneumatic blonde with huge , curly locks . She does anal and DP with 2 guys is a living room . It's quite good if a little lacking in positioning . Then she does a simple anal scene in a lift with some other guy at the end of which she does a pretty good gape . Then there's Ildico , a very sexy girl who looks GREAT in a pair of cut-off jeans / short shorts . She claims to be ' a sex fiend ' and does a brilliant DP scene with a bunch of guys . Then she does double anal and clearly loves it . Letice , who is not a vegetable but a nice-looking woman , is last . She get's DP-ed about a zillion times by a group of guys and loves what she is doing . In closing it's a great DVD and I say you should buy it if you happen to come across it . Don't be put off by the low rating .
Your pants will be dancing with figs ! ! !	Released in the same season as Last Action Hero ( another under-rated spoof of dumb action movies ) and sharing a few cast members with it too , Loaded Weapon is more light-hearted stab at those horrible ' buddy-buddy ' / ' loose cannon partnered with old guy days from retirement ' movies that were in unholy abundance around the late 80s and early 90s . Lethal Weapon ( a film that has really not dated well at all ) is to blame for the sudden popularity of this sub-genre and it's at this particular series that Loaded Weapon takes most of it's well deserved stabs . Emilio Estevez is Jack Colt , a gun-happy cop on the edge who has been walking a thin line between sanity and alcohol-fuelled psycho since his dog ran away . Samuel L . Jackson is Wes Luger , a Detective with only a few days before he retires . His former partner Billy York ( Whoopie Goldberg ) is killed and he demands to take the case even though his superiors think it was suicide . And so Colt and Luger get involved in a remarkably silly plot with cocaine disguised girl scout cookies . The evil General Murturs ( William Shatner thoroughly enjoying himself ) and his henchman Mr . Jigsaw ( Tim Curry ) plan to lure Colt and Luger into a trap before they foil his next major drug deal . There are loads of cameos and even more in-jokes than you can shake a stick at . What makes Loaded Weapon better than most other heartless spoofs is that every line of dialogue is delivered perfectly and every scene has it's own special moment ( if not more than one ) . From the hilarious opening in the mini-mart to pretty much any scene with Jon Lovitz ( spoofing that horrible Joe Pesci character ) there is loads to enjoy . Every aspect and cliché of this unfortunate sub-genre is exploited and made fun of , even the musical score plays a vital part in the humor of some scenes . Some of the most quotable lines of dialogue include : ' Half today . Half tomorrow . Half on delivery . ' ' I'm Detective Luger , this is Detective Colt . These are our wallets . ' ' You came ! ' - ' That's personal ! ' ' Ooware eez tha meecro-feelm ? ' ' Don't thank me . I'm just a cop doing his job . ' ' I'm your worst nightmare . ' - ' No waking up without my penis is my worst nightmare . ' And of course . . . ' CIGARETTE ! ! ! ' Unfortunately a decent knowledge of the Lethal Weapon films is required to get most of the jokes in this film but it's so funny that it's worth suffering through them first . It's a shame that they never made a sequel but never say never eh ?
VERY GOO	This movie is very well made and has a decent plot . The editing may be a little ham-fisted in places but the shoot-outs are far from simple and the car chases rival that of even RONIN . It also has a sly sense of humour and self aware of it's stupidity . I like the music , it's highly thematic . I like George Segal's character , adding a little class to the oily villain he plays and Dolph is good . He's always good . Much better than Seagal or Van Damme or Stallone . It's a pity he's not in many high profile movies . But this one is definitely one of his best .
Great Xmas Movie	Too many sequels suffer from Deja vu . And hardly any of those carbon copies improve upon the original . Home Alone 2 is a carbon copy , but it's also much better and more complex a movie than the first . In another mad rush to the airport the MacCallisters make a point of remembering Kevin this time . But he gets lost in a crowd at the airport and follows a man who looks like his dad onto the wrong plane . 13 of the MacCallisters are going to Miami for Xmas ( do they never stay home ? ) but Kevin is headed for the Big Apple . And he's going to have that once-in-a-lifetime vacation he's been wishing for . There's much more for Kevin to see and do in New York . He scams his way into the Plaza hotel where a suspicious Concierge ( Tim Curry ) gives him mighty evil looks at every encounter . He goes to Duncan's Toy Chest , the biggest toy store in town and takes many scenic photographs . Though it is a little worrying now seeing Kevin on the roof of the World Trade Centre . But the Wet Bandits have escaped . And they have just arrived in New York with loftier ambitions and bigger heists to pull off . They even brush by Kevin a few times not knowing he's there . Typically though , once they get a hold of him the give away far too much info . Once Kevin escapes he takes matters into his own hands once more . His Aunt Georgette from the first movie is still in Paris so he uses her half-renovated home as a huge mousetrap for the bungling burglars . The booby traps this time are much more painful and nasty , so it's all the more amusing for us then huh ? Who can possibly fail to laugh at Marv getting the shock of his life when he tries to turn on the taps ? If the movie were to be released now I doubt if it would be let away with a PG rating . Still , it's nothing for any parents to worry about . Unless you fear your child is going to set your head on fire with a blowtorch . Home Alone 2 has a more satisfying climax than the first . The film doesn't simply end once Harry and Marv are back in the slammer as there is more plot to it than that . Brenda Fricker has a ( rather questionable ) role as ' The Pigeon Lady ' a woman who lives in Central Park and talks to anyone-until Kevin reaches out . Plus Eddie Bracken shows up as Mr . Duncan and gives Kevin the best Xmas morning ever as a token of his appreciation . With a bigger story ( okay some of it re-used ) and more characters and a better playground for Kevin , Home Alone 2 manages to be a superior sequel . While not excessively so . There's loads of fun to be had in Kevin's antics and Tim Curry is downright brilliant as the mischievous Concierge . Though try to turn a blind eye to Rob Schneider in his pre-Animal days if you don't dig him . It's a great movie on it's own but sadly it will always be called a copycat . Watch it now from a fresh perspective and you might like it more . Much like the first movie Home Alone 2 is presented ' matted ' widescreen . Meaning that if you have seen this a dozen times on video then this version chops off the top and bottom of the frame . Though it was meant to be this way , so worry not . This time round the 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic picture ( tho only Region 1 is not anamorphic , sorry ) is much better . There are hardly any traces of dirt or scratches and it looks like a proper DVD picture . Unlike the first movie . There is some light grain here and there but that is where the trouble stops . Too bad the Dolby Surround soundtrack is ultra-tame . You'll have to turn your speakers up way past reference level to get a decent sound out of this one . And only then does it sound rather basic . The scenes of Harry and Marv being tortured almost to death could have sounded awesome if there were a rather more sophisticated soundtrack . This almost sounds like a TV movie . Well , no DVD is perfect I guess . Once more the only extras are trailers for all three movies . The effort Fox must have put into this DVD ( one of the highest grossing movies ever ) must have been backbreaking work .
Brilliant Batman	But it's way too short . At only 76 minutes you begin to wonder why they bothered . The story is barely given a chance to be intriguing and it is told in a very confusing way with too many flashbacks and flashbacks that go into their own flashbacks . But it still retains that dark edge the 2 previous movies had and many visual thrills . This movie tells the tale of how Bruce Wayne became Batman in a little more depth than the live-action films and gives us the discovery of the Batcave in a slightly different way than that in Batman Forever . The Joker is as crazy as ever , the thugs and hoods are as nasty as they have always been and the identity of the Phantasm surprised me . Although much of Danny Elfman's theme is missing the music is still powerful and involving . The animation is very good and has many elaborate ' sets ' and locations . The visual style still sticks to that of the comic book like glue and it all makes for a very exciting film . Even if it is a bit of a confusing one , especially for kids . But this animated incarnation of Batman is truly the best .
Absolutely mental !	Gulp ! This was one barmy film . By far the most true , nerve-wracking horror we've had in ages . Far too many ' horror ' movies over the past 10 years have been neutralized sub-genre flicks starring generic babes and hunks from teen soaps . Nothing of the sort here . Rob Zombie has made a REAL horror film with some shocking and unbelievable elements . Four kids , on their way home , stop over at some remote gas station ( and fried chicken bar ) run by the manic Captain Spaulding . Upon witnessing his freak-show amusement ride of urban legends they become fascinated with the myth of Doctor Satan , an insane local mass-murder / torturer / scientist . They make the very unwise decision of taking a slight detour in order to find him . Soon enough they've picked up a wild hitchhiker called Baby who is more than a little slutty . Their car blows a tyre and Baby has her brother Otis take them back to her house for repairs . Baby , Otis and the rest of the family seem kind of hospitable at first , despite their peculiar idiosyncrasies . After that , well . . . complete and utter madness follows . Rob Zombie bombards us with so much horror , both macabre and morbid , that the film becomes a hypnotic thrill ride of guts , gore and grim . As the traumatized teens slowly lose their minds so do we . They barely have time to comprehend the mania and carnage and neither does the audience . In the final 15 minutes our senses are so over-stimulated by the breath-taking madness , furious pace , escalating and mind-blowing horror that the shocking plot twist in the last few seconds comes as the biggest surprise and fright I've ever seen in a movie . Many have criticized Zombie's Oliver Stone-type direction of this film and called his rapid switching of film-stocks jarring and distracting . I didn't mind it at all . It adds to the unstable atmosphere of the film and only proves Zombie took more time and effort to put this film together than most other directors do . House of 1000 Corpses was made by Universal and Zombie wrapped production way back in Spring 2000 . But the film was so gory and perverse that Universal simply refused to release it . MGM tried to help get it out there but ended up dumping it too . Finally Lion's Gate Films stepped in and gave the film a limited run ( which is unfortunate since a mainstream Universal release would have guaranteed it reached a bigger audience ) . By this point the film had been cut , edited and censored . Which is a big shame . Even with these 15 minutes missing House of 1000 Corpses will still leave you feeling numb and slightly sick . As Zombie is already working on a sequel ( called The Devil's Rejects ) he doesn't have the time to work on the uncut DVD but has promised he will do his best to get it out there . So until then get your fix with this DVD . The film is presented in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . Special features include a commentary , a featurette , audition footage , rehearsal footage , cast and crew interviews , a still gallery , trailers and an isolated score . The region 2 DVD ( which I have ) has an exclusive DTS 5 . 1 track .
The best of the three	Up to scratch in all areas apart from the editing . I'll get to that later . This one sees Axel head back to Beverly Hills after a 3-year gap to solve the Alphabet crimes . The film is more violent than the original and is truer to the Simpson / Bruckhiemer films that followed . When you compare this movie to more recent flicks like Con Air or Gone In 60 Seconds you can see a definite resemblance in style . These movies have very fast editing to heighten the action . Obviously the editors practised on this movie as the editing is very bad and there are many continuity mistakes . It doesn't retread the same ground either . The first summed up what Beverly Hills was like in the early 80's but this one shows us the world indulgent Americans live in when they have more money than they can spend . As Axel says ' These rich people loose their minds and want to live in a donut ' , when describing to a building foreman that there are not supposed to be any right angles in the house he is about to ' steal ' . The music has improved a bit too . Even if some of it is a direct rip-off of the music in John Carpenter's Escape From New York . It's a shame the music ( not songs ) from these films is not available on soundtrack . Give Beverly Hills Cop 2 a chance and don't listen to the narrow-minded critics who panned this film ( 13 years ago ) . It is also the only one of the 3 that is in 2 . 35 : 1 .
Just as good as the first .	As a Scooby fan I may be a bit biased but how you can deny that this is just great entertainment for everyone is beyond my understanding . Of course this isn't high art but it IS very well put together and there are plenty of in-jokes for the wiser viewers . This movie HAS to be mindless , it would lose its kid audience otherwise . But that doesn't mean there's no good humor or plot to it . Granted , the plot is dumb ( the gang go up against all the monsters from the first season , only this time they're real ) , but there is slight sophistication and the manic set-pieces just bombard us , one after the other . Once again , there's not a moment of boredom , but there are quieter scenes with the Mystery Inc . gang in which character is not completely ignored . The main stars are , as usual , Shaggy and Scooby . Matthew Lillard is dead-on as Shaggy . Give this man an Oscar , seriously ! One moment that requires major suspension of disbelief is not any scene feature sludge monsters or a talking dog but a scene in which Velma utters ' I'm not hot ' . NOT HOT ! ! ! ? ? ? ? WHAT ? ? ? She's a total babe , more so than Daphne . And I NEVER care about CGI FX in movies . But here they are so cool , colorful and convincing . Who are you to tell me Scooby Doo ain't real ? Go out and see this right away . Between this and Looney Tunes : Back in Action family movies are balancing out a little bit after the awful crud of Cat in the Hat and Cheaper by the Dozen . Give us Scooby Doo 3 right now ! ! !
Very happy tree friends	Don't let the charming theme tune fool you . These cartoons are sick ! They star the most cutest and cuddly little animals you can imagine but they end up getting killed , tortured and maimed in the most depraved yet ingenius ways . You'll actually be gritting your teeth and looking away when death comes calling . But how can anyone be so mean to animals so cute ? Animated or not these guys ( especially the Vietnam Vet dude ) would make great cuddly toys . Tho one might be tempted to press their faces into a lawnmower after watching this DVD too much . The DVD is presented in full frame and has a loud , gut wrenching soundtrack that only adds to the sound of tearing flesh ( or fur ) , breaking bones and mutilations . Extras include your own DVD Happy Tree Friend Tamagochi plus commentaries from the creators . Shame it only lasts for half an hour .
Dark , Doomy , Brutal and Moody	I was rather impressed with how strong this film is . Having heard not much about it I was expecting another ' In Da Hood ' film . I didn't have much confidence in Ernest Dickerson ( Surviving the Game , Demon Knight ) as his direction hasn't matured in the past decade . I eat my words now . He definitely brings a strong visual integrity to Never Die Alone . DMX turns in a believable performance as King David a New York drug dealer who legs it to LA when he steals his bosses stash . Upon his return years later he is promptly offed by a two-bit thug . In his dying moments he bequeaths his entire legacy to investigative reporter David Arquette ( who is great in his role too ) . Before the night is over Arquette pieces together his life and an awful past full of heinous crimes is unleashed , but it's not over yet and Arquette becomes marked for death by King David's still very angry boss . In a mere 88 minutes Never Die Alone tells an intriguing story in non-chronological order and sets up a remarkable array of complexly interwoven characters . It's surely a character drama first before anything else . Don't misjudge it as being no more than a violent ' gangsta ' thriller . The violence is brutal and honest but it does not distract , none of it is superfluous . Dickerson's direction has a Gothic , urban noir edge to it that has the feel of a 1950's pulp novel . It's dark , very dark and some may feel slightly uncomfortable with how frank Never Die Alone is in it's depiction of misogyny and the utter ruthlessness of it's central , highly evil character . The DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . There are a bunch of extras I never had time to check out . But this is definitely a movie for fans of ( the initially unrecognisable ) DMX , just don't expect one of those nice but bad characters he played in Exit Wounds or Cradle 2 the Grave . King David is a bad , bad man .
Mickey gets high !	In this cartoon , the second color Mickey adventure , bugs and creepy crawlies are eating absolutely everything in Mickey's yard . He and Pluto set out on a mission to stop them with some poisonous gas , so bad the barrel has a skull and crossbones on it . After an accident , Mickey ends up spraying himself with the gas and goes on a scary trip in which he is thimble sized and the bugs are as big as T-Rexs . The rest of the cartoon is a chase with him and Pluto being pursued by the creepy crawlies . It's all very visual stuff , played out to various pieces of music . Mickey doesn't even say a single thing until the last few seconds . A fun cartoon .
Vampires is the best	I liked this movie . I usually hate vampire movies but this one was very good . It was funny and tough and didn't have to resort to sub-From Dusk Til Dawn type mayhem that Blade did as it had a plot also . It's not too gory either . Sure KNB do some great make-up effects but it's not like the gore is the only entertainment of the movie . Blade and FDTD relied on the gore to entertain too often . Carpenter has made a Vampire movie that seems more realistic than that . This movie is strangely light-hearted for a vampire / horror flick . Don't get me wrong though , it's best that way . There is a lot of cool dialogue too and Daniel Baldwin's performance is one of his best . I love desert set movies and this one gives us some great cinematography and gorgeous scenery . The music is also light-hearted in a way but can also be spooky at time . Carpenter always comes up with great tunes and his guitar riff and ' Roadhouse Blues ' approach to the genre gives a whole new feel . Plus James Woods shines in the way that only he can do . The DVD has a boring commentary ( Carpenter has no one to talk to ) , a trailer and the cover claims it contains a photo gallery also but unless it's an easter egg it ain't there . The picture is in pretty good 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and the sound is Dolby 5 . 1 . It'd be cool if Columbia released a Superbit of this movie .
Good but flawed .	I think that this and parts 3 and 6 are the best . Kane Hodder was definitely the best Jason , up to a point . The direction is a bit lame in places but quite adequate in others . The premise of the movie is good but the acting and dialogue really sucks in some parts . If this movie was made today , no way would they get away with such dialogue . Actors nowadays just wouldn't speak it . I'm not a big fan of the Harry Manfredini music in the first 5 movies but here he introduces an , eerie , ghostly little theme that crops up every now and again . Jason is also at his coolest with the bones showing thru his boiler suit . New Line ditched this look with Jason Goes To Hell . In part 10 , or Freddy vs Jason I really hope they don't make Jason the way he was in JGTH . That movie just seemed totally miscellaneous , it didn't fit with the others ( and Jason had hair ) . Overall this is very watchable and pretty good , but why do the end credits roll like a TV movie ? Regarding the DVD . . . it's not good . F13 Part VII : The New Blood is my fave Friday the 13th movie thanks to the strong supernatural elements and a jazzed up score from Harry Manfredini and Fred Mollin . I looked forward to this DVD , I was let down tremendously . Director John Carl Buechler was horrified when the MPAA made him chop his film up worse than Jason ever could and censor almost every spot of blood . This changed the film from a strong and effective horror to a tedious assembly of teens getting killed . Horror films are supposed to offend and upset . In horror you have the capability to provoke a very wide variety of emotions from your audience . Even if the source material is rather weak , if pulled off correctly you can entertain them in such a way that they'll babble about the movie for weeks and perhaps never forget it . This is exactly what John Carl Buechler did with this movie . Sadly no audience was to be exposed to his make-up genius or copious gore . The movie was wasted . Or , in his own words , castrated . I couldn't agree more . Buechler approached Paramount with his own cut of the film , many deleted scenes and a wealth of extra material and proposed a special edition DVD . Paramount flat out said ' NO ' even tho Buechler offered to work on the DVD for free . Knowing that there were MANY fans out there who feel the same way about the movie Buechler set up a petition and got thousands of signatures begging Paramount to release Part VII as a Special Edition . Still , there answer was , flat out , ' NO ' . And now that this DVD has been released what extra features does it have ? None . Even after all this and all the begging Paramount didn't even give us a trailer . Something they were ' kind ' enough to give Parts 1-6 . I see no reason to buy this unless you have submitted your VHS copy and need the DVD . Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood is anamorphically enhanced at 1 . 78 : 1 and has a remastered Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack made from the original Ultra Stereo recordings . Unfortunately , it's not a good 5 . 1 track with hardly any . 1LFE use or surround use .
Dog ? Where	This was a really cool update of the classic Scooby Doo formula . The gang have new clothes , new jobs and new voices . The movie is self-aware but not to the point that it becomes really annoying . The animation is also much better and not so cheap looking . There are shadows , out of focus backgrounds and 3-dimensional shots . Also , the same background does not repeat itself over and over when Shaggy and Scooby are running . The plot is about a haunted mansion in a Louisiana bayou and the Mystery Inc . effort to unravel it . But the gang have split up . Daphne Blake is a talk show host , Fred is her producer , Velma Dinkly is a bookstore owner and Shaggy and Scooby are ? unemployed . They reunite to go on the road for Daphne's birthday . That is when they come across an opportunity to solve a REAL mystery . Much to the disappointment of Fred the zombies are real . There are no fake masks and no scams . I think this is very refreshing . The new , re-vamped Scooby Doo franchise is full of potential and this movie along with , ' Scooby Doo and the Witches Ghost ' and ' Scooby Doo and the Alien Invaders ' uses that potential very well . If only they were longer . Just over 70 minutes ain't enough .
Daffy is the REAL Looney Tune	He's completely crazy that's for sure . And at the beginning of this cartoon we see him as happy as can be in his grassy valley with his pond . He hops and skips around without a care in the world . . . until Porky Pig shows up to do a scenic painting and maybe catch a fish or two . Naturally , Daffy isn't pleased at these distubances and does everything in his power to rile up Porky , including several disguises and constantly ringing his fishing line bell . The funniest part is when Daffy rips out Porky's car engine and climbs inside . When Porky tries to start the car Daffy makes spluttering and wheezing noises . Absolute class , until Porky ties him up and forces to be the REAL engine of the car . That duck can never just enjoy his happiness .
A great trio	I'll review these short movies in order . First we have " Old Chief Woodenhead " in which an old convenience store clerk is robbed and killed by thugs . His wooden statue of a Native American warrior comes to life and takes them down . It's a little slow and doesn't have a lot going on but it still cool and well directed . The second part is " The Raft " and is surely my favorite and the scariest . 4 teenagers enjoy a carefree Indian summer at a secluded lake where there is a large raft stuck in the middle . Once they swim out of the raft a huge blob of carnivorous , organic sludge comes along eats one of them up . It seems to have the ability to dissolve human flesh pretty quickly and wont go away until it's eaten the other 3 . We never know what the blob is or where it came from but I reckon that you'll find this one to be more involving than the others . The final story is " The Hitchhiker " in which Mrs Lansing , a neurotic upper class woman runs , over a man , trying to hitch a ride , completely by accident . She thinks it best to simply drive away from the scene and leave him be . But then she begins to have hallucinations ( ? ) of him coming back to get her . And no matter how many times she runs him over and smashes him to pieces he seems to continue coming back and coming back despite the fact he becomes more and more disintegrated . It's not scary but it's fun to watch her become increasingly deranged , as she cannot get rid of him . In between all of these little movies there is an ongoing animated story of a kid buying the Creepshow comic book and ordering killer plants to eat up his enemies . The Creep ( Tom Savini under heavy make-up ) introduces each story to us in much the same manner as The Crypt Keeper in Tales from the Crypt . Even the comic book to film fades resemble the Crypt TV series . But is there actually a Creepshow and Tales from the Crypt comic book ? I would appreciate it if someone gave me an answer to this . It's bugged me for a long time . Look out for Stephen King as a trucker in " The Hitchhiker " .
Amazing platformer	Super Mario Bros . 3 is certainly an impressive game for 1988 standards and holds up as an innovative platformer even today . The graphics , level design and gameplay make for a truly great playing experience . I never did finish the first Super Mario Bros . ( as of yet ) and I've never even played Super Mario Bros . 2 but now , after liking this so much , I will seriously have to consider it . In terms of originality you won't find anything particularly amazing about the jumping of one platform to the next and collecting power-ups but it's how it all comes together and works so well that makes SMB3 stand out from the rest of the competition . Some levels are tough , but stick at them and you'll memorise and master the tricky bits pretty quickly . However , that didn't stop me from crying out loud in sheer , hopeless frustration every now and again . The GBA version adds a save function ( a godsend for those who hate having to spend 86 hours finishing a game in one go ) , slightly tweaked levels and compatibility with the Nintendo E-Reader that offers bonus levels . Considering how good this game is it's no wonder Sonic had such tough competition from a short , fat Italian plumber . Definitely one to hunt down . Graphics A Sound B ( only because the famous Super Mario music is not featured ) Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
A tense , well-crafted action film	A bizarre mix of creative talents went in to making this movie . Not the kind of thing that happens too often these days . A script from Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale , direction by Walter Hill and his usual gang ( strong editing from Freeman Davies , cool photography from Lloyd Ahern and score by Ry Cooder ) , Bill Paxton and William Sadler as the ' heroes ' and Ice T and Ice Cube as the bad guys . It makes for a truly original movie . Much like Judgment Night , Trespass is about two worlds colliding after bystanders witness a gangland execution . Two firemen on a treasure hunt in a huge , long abandoned East St . Louis factory . This happens to be the same territory as King James ( Ice T ) and his cohorts . They off some unwise punk by chucking him thru the glass roof and are pretty mortified upon discovering Bill Paxton and William Sadler are watching them . Ice T's crippled brother is taken hostage by Sadler and they seal themselves in old apartment . Several other bad guys show up and totally box them in . What follows is a succession of stand-offs and shoot outs as Paxton and Sadler fight among themselves , T and Cube argue over who should be running the show , loyalties are challenged and each group begins to split into different factions . Stuck in the crossfire is poor old Bradlee , the innocent hobo caught in the middle as his apartment is besieged . There are no clear-cut ' good guys ' and ' bad guys ' in Trespass . Just a bunch of guys who all came to the wrong place at the wrong time . Originally called ' Looters ' and scheduled for release during Summer 1992 the release date was changed to Winter and the title changed to ' Trespass ' . Why ? The LA riots were happening and Universal felt that there was enough racial tension in the media already . While I agree there is deliberate racism in this film it's nowhere near as bad as the morbidly extreme racism in such recent movies like Bad Boys II . This new release by Universal is much better than the pathetic ( and now OOP ) release by Goodtimes . Gone is the snapper case . In its place is a sturdy keepcase and a nice bundle of extras . First of all there are some deleted scenes , a Behind the Scenes of Trespass featurette , the Ice-T / Ice Cube Trespass music video ( it's the highly censored ' radio ' edit ) and a trailer . It is presented in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 2 . 0 sound . You should definitely get this as it's not the standard of film Hollywood studios produce these days . IE made by talented people .
WOOOOOOOOOOO-HOOOOOOOOOOO	I'd give it a million stars if I could . I never thot a game could possibly be more fun that GTA3 . GTA Vice City achieves that impossible . How can I NOT recommend this epic adventure ? ? ? The action , the gore , the humor , the violence , the amazing stunts , the tunes , the celebrity voices , ABSOLUTELY EVERY-THING about this game ROCKS SO MUCH ! You could play it for a gillion years and STILL never get bored and STILL discover cool new thingies . I know I sound really hyper and wound-up but the game is so damn exciting and so very , very cool that I'm all for letting you all realize you MUST buy this . It's a classic . When you're not laughing your ass off you'll be marvelling at the outrageous car crashes or shaking your head at the sick and depraved humor of this . . . THE BEST VIDEO GAME EVER !
It may be hard but it's way cool and atmospheric .	You really do get the feel of absolute abandon and isolation while playing Myst . The graphics may be rather dated now ( especially compared to the modern graphics in Uru and Myst IV ) but it's easy to get immersed in the quiet , lonely environment and believe your actually there . The sound effects and music are slight and subtle rather than overbearing like in other video games . Since Myst the franchise has indeed developed and evolved . People still tend to think of them and point and click slide shows . Which isn't very fair . Yes , Myst is this way , though it was made 11 years ago and graphic cards back then were not the frontiers of technology they are today . A lot of patience and intelligence is needed to solve the puzzles and put the clues together . A lot of reading and note-taking is required and those looking for shoot-em-ups and violence should look elsewhere . Myst is , indeed , a game for the refined gamer .
Ahmwoonanawoonanawoonana-huh !	This is one of the best comedies out there , made back in the days when John Landis was still good . It is bursting with brilliant scenes for fans to act out and loads of hilarious lines to recite . I find myself doing this quite a lot . Who cannot resist Eddie Murphy's foreign exchange student disguise or Ackroyd's Lionel Josef . The ape in the train is a thigh-slapper too . For a comedy it has a great plot and a decent running time but it has dated quite a bit . Please though , no remake . Let this film stand on it's own as proof that Ackroyd , Murphy and Landis were once brilliant at what they did .
They don't make ' em like this anymore .	I'm so tired of modern family movies full of fart jokes or movies where teenagers make love to pastries and it's supposed to be funny and then they staple on some superficial message at the end in an attempt to be poignant and balance out all the trash that came before . Every other week we are tortured with some nonsense of this calibre and whenever I wish for a movie that stands out from the crowd I have to go back in time and consider some overlooked gem . The Boy Who Could Fly is exactly that . The characters seem so real and their emotions genuine , it builds at a slow pace but it never gets boring and story development is consistent . This is not a ferociously loud summer crowd-pleaser or something bloated with pointless SFX . Very few movies have the power to make a whole story out of characters and situation alone without feeling the need for some ridiculous set piece or blaring thrash metal guitars . In fact Bruce Broughton's score is the wonderful opposite of that . The performances , especially the two leads , are flawless and the direction is far more refined than the typical . Everything in this movie comes together perfectly to make a film so unique and charming . If you have lost your faith in the current dreck that graces our screens and if you want a family movie with some meaning and subtext then check this out . And keep an eye out for director John Carpenter as on of the Coupe De Villes . The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen and in Dolby 2 . 0 . It has an introduction by Jay Underwood and director Nick ( Michael Myers ) Castle , they also feature in a commentary with Lucy Deakins and Fred Savage .
I believe it's real	You know what this film is , you've seen it on The Discovery Channel or a Sci-Fi Channel documentary . It's the one with a Bigfoot walking into the woods while constantly looking back at the man with the camera . Roger Patterson and Bob Gimlin , the men behind this little miracle , were out in the wild forests of Northern California looking to capture the mythical creature on film . By sheer luck they did . While coming upon Bluff Creek , both horses they were riding on were startled by a dark figure in the distance . Patterson immediately got out the camera and captured 952 precious frames of the figure which turned out to be Bigfoot . Apparently it was cleaning food on the rocks of the creek before being scared back into seclusion . Skeptics love being skeptics . One can watch this film with an already non-believing eye and see only what they wish to be proved a hoax . But this film has never been proved to be a hoax . Or real for that matter . Patterson was not a rich man . And therefor the possibility that he had this suit made seems a bit far-fetched . Plus the creature was well over six and a half feet tall . And it's arms were longer than a human which is pretty hard to fake in a suit . Plus there was muscle texture , breasts ( it was female ) and a possible hernia on the thigh . To have all of these on a suit that no one has been able to prove is a fake back in 1967 made by a guy with little to no money doesn't seem likely . And if it was a fake then where is the suit ? It would be worth a pretty penny today . But you also have to consider Patterson's luck . I mean he did set out to capture Bigfoot on film and through a one in a billion chance actually did . Well , most people venturing out into the woods to find Bigfoot are going to bring a camera right ? It would always be a one in a billion chance of coming across one . Not just sheer coincidence that a camera and bigfoot come together . They are both there for that purpose . Patterson also had many scientists and film technicians analyse the footage . Which would be pretty brave for a man who has simply played a prank on everyone . Sadly , Patterson died in 1972 and since then Bob Gimlin has only suggested once , in a roundabout way , that the only way it would be a fake is if Patterson staged it all without his knowledge . But considering the points above , I think it is for real . Personally , if there are Bigfeet , Sasquatches , Skunk-Apes out there I don't want any REAL conclusive evidence of them as it would be another thing that Mankind destroys . May Bigfoot live forever in uncertainty .
A must for KOF fans	Not a revolutionary animated movie by any means but this sequel to Fatal Fury has a reasonably good story and interesting characters . The color scheme is bright and easy on the eye and the animation style is better than most Japanese anime in which everyone looks like Asian / American to appeal to both audiences . I thought that Krauser was a cool bad guy and , for once , one that I doubted the hero ( Terry Bogard ) couldn't defeat so easily . His costume was a bit excessive and it is hard to believe that he could be so agile under such a suit but one can overlook such a flaw easily . Terry's brother Andy returns and so does Joe Higashi but it's the 2 new characters that are the best thing about this movie . Kim is a teenage boy who idolizes Terry and considers him to be a real role model . But he is gutted when he discovers that Terry is just a burnt out drunk and will do anything for him until he gets back on his feet . The other new character is Mai and she is a very " bouncy " character if you know what I mean . The fight scenes are very well thought out and vivid . Every punch and kick looks painful and the other heavies look pretty mean too . But we all know that in the end Terry is gonna beat the crap out of them . Just like the video game says ? Terry Bogard is the King of Fighters . But at 68 minutes you feel a little cheated . But with such a short running time there is no room for fat .
My fave Disney animated movie	But the typical faults of all the other recent animated movies are still evident . I'm talking about the loud , loud , LOUD soundtrack that gives you a massive headache . That is about the only bad thing I can think of . The main reason TENG is better than other Disney rubbish is the ( almost ) complete absence of stupid , moronic songs that are typical for Disney output . I found this quite refreshing and made the film easier to watch . I thought that David Spade and John Goodman , as Emperor Kuzco and Pacha , gave some of the better voice performances in an animated cartoon and the animation style was always cool to look at and colorful . The jaguars were funny and Yzma was so disturbing that maybe some of the younger kids in the audience had nightmares about her . But the best character was Kronk , the dumb but kind-hearted assistant to Yzma . This is a great example of how an animated character can still be as likable as a live action one . I have to admit that when I first saw the trailer for this film I was not impressed . It seemed like yet another kid's movie about a king ( Prince of Egypt ) and his life etc . But when he turned into a Llama the look of the film radically changed and I looked forward to seeing it . It is a wonderfully original idea and it is executed with great wit and self-aware humor . If only most Disney animated movies were this good , that means we would not be subjected to such hell as Dinosaur and Tarzan . But I recommend that you buy the DVD of this movie to watch it as seeing it with a theatre full of kids and parents who don't really want to be there is not the preferred viewing experience .
Now THIS is more like it !	The idea of the Matrix is so full of potential and could be taken in so many , many directions . The movies decided to go in the direction of pretension but the Animatrix goes EVERYWHERE the movies don't . It is so far superior and well worth the time . It's a shame that most audiences don't consider Anime or any form of animation to be ' real ' or something that they should take seriously ( sadly even Matrix fans feel this way and won't watch it simply because it's animation ) because they're missing out on something very special here . It's not original to review this DVD by going thru all the shorts so I'll just stick to what I like best ( which is most of it ) . First of all , ' The Second Renaissance Parts 1 and 2 ' is absolutely VITAL as backstory to the first Matrix film . And it's a zillion times more interesting than the sequels in terms of drama , irony and subtext . ' The Final Flight of the Osiris ' takes place before Reloaded and leads us into story of the machines beginning to drill down to Zion . And it's very cool . ' Detective ' is a story of a private eye trying to find Trinity and discover what exactly the Matrix is . But Agent Smith comes after him to put a stop to that . It's in black and white and has a wonderful atmosphere of 1950's dime novel pulp fiction . ' Matriculated ' is the story of a captured machine who is taught / hypnotized into feeling what it's like to be human . It's a very clever story that manages to provoke feeling for the characters ( and even the captured machine ) , something the movies never did . ' Kid ' is about the kid from Revolutions who takes over the Mech at the end and manages to open the doors to Zion . Apparently , before being freed , he was a schoolkid who met Neo online and wanted to ' wake up ' . But the best one is ' Beyond ' . A magical tale with an atmosphere so solid that it's almost tangible . It's about a girl who goes looking for her cat in an old abandoned factory with some other kids . But in this factory the Matrix is having problems and ' reality ' for the characters doesn't quite work properly . It's a very interesting tale that really makes you think . There are numerous extras on this DVD , all of them more interesting that the other Matrix DVDs . All 9 of the shorts are presented in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . It's truly for all fans and non-fans of the Matrix universe .
Cozy Xmas Cartoon	Is it just me or do the Garfield TV specials seem to have a real emotional touch to them that gives the whole series higher integrity than the average children's animation . If only the movie were this good . It's Xmas time once again and Jon takes Garfield and Odie back home to the farm for a good , old-fashioned country Xmas . Originally against the idea , Garfield quickly becomes accustomed when he remembers how much he likes Grandma . John and brother Doc-Boy behave like kids again and can barely contain their excitement at the forthcoming prezzies ( who can ? ) and what on earth is Odie up to in the barn ? The Garfield Christmas Special is a warm , sentimental and meaningful cartoon with great songs ( once again ) and the kind of everlasting charm most would kill for . Highly recommended !
Quite frankly , the BEST MOVIE EVER MADE ! ! !	Well , it took over 4 years but I finally have a new best movie . And not only that but it's the funniest movie ever also . It's quite possible you'll die of oxygen deficiency , you'll be laughing so hard . Taking place in what is essentially the same universe as Who Framed Roger Rabbit , the movie begins with both Daffy Duck and DJ Drake ( Brendan Fraser , who also plays himself as well as Taz ) getting kicked off the Warner Brothers lot at the same time . Daffy follows Fraser home only for both of them to make the astonishing discovery that Brendan's movie star dad Damian Drake ( Timothy Dalton , who doesn't appear to have aged a day since License to Kill ) is a REAL secret agent as well as playing one in the movies . He's been kidnapped by the Chairman of the evil Acme corporation in an attempt to find a mysterious diamond called the Blue Monkey and Brendan and Daffy team up to rescue him . But the Warner Brothers soon realize that without Daffy the Bugs Bunny cartoons are not worth anything . So Bugs and the Head of Animated Comedy ( Jenna Elfman ) go looking for him , inadvertently getting dragged into the Blue Monkey plot . It's not only a wild collection of increasingly insane set-pieces . Looney Tunes Back In Action is quite possibly the most intelligent and brilliantly crafted film of 2003 . It's devastating that cheap nonsense such as Scary Movie 3 makes over $100 million while Looney Tunes barely scrapes $20 million . I blame the marketing . The trailer for this film was absolutely awful . And even I thought it looked really bad . Only my dedication to the Looney Tunes made me see it out of obligation . Thank God I didn't judge it by the trailer . I'm assuming most of the potential audience did . Plus it did have to go up against stiff holiday competition such as Return of the King and Elf ( ! ) . Both of those movies had stronger marketing campaigns which is the only explanation I can offer for Elf doing so well . A few critics blasted Looney Tunes for being no more than an exersize in boosting sales for the Warner Brothers catalogue of characters . This is in no way true . While it's true that merchandise follows this movie ( as does every family film ) I simply do not see how it's pure exploitation . Space Jam was pure exploitation and an unashamed merchandise excuse . Back in Action fixes everything that went wrong with Space Jam . So much so that Joe Dante nicknamed this the ' Anti-Space Jam movie ' . Back in Action is good , old-fashioned Looney Tunes mayhem . I can't think of a more perfect director for this movie . Joe Dante is the most underappreciated director in recent history . It's obvious from his previous movies that he just loves the Looney Tunes and Back In Action surpasses even Gremlins 2 in terms out wall to wall madness ( and correct me if I am wrong , but didn't the Looney Tunes run riot in that movie too ) . This is his most perfect movie to date and I am sure it will be appreciated by a wider audience once it hits DVD . The best thing about this movie ? The fact that Daffy Duck gets the most amount of screen time . And his outrageous , anarchic antics never fail to amuse . At one point Daffy and Bugs are chased by Elmer Fudd through a bunch of paintings in the Louvre art museum . It's a crazy sequence in which you simply cannot deny the movie's genius . The merging of live action and animation is seamless . It looks like Brendan Fraser and Daffy really are acting together ( and for all we know , they are ) . Their chemistry is perfect and when Bugs joins the team there's so much going on that just one viewing isn't enough . There's hundreds of in-jokes ( as you would expect from a Joe Dante movie ) and none of them are of the cheap , post-modern kind . Looney Tunes Back In Action has more class and more genius than any other comedy in the past few years . Even Steve Martin's performance as the man-child chairman of the Acme Corporation is a return to his edgier roles in movies like The Jerk and is far better than the ' family man ' trash he's been doing for the past 10 years . He's practically an animation himself in this wonderful movie that's bursting at the seams with madness .
So totally cool .	Man this short movie rocks . Made for a mere $30 , 000 , Sandy Collora proved that even with a tiny budget he could bring a truer , darker and superior Batman to life than Joel Schumacher could with zillions of dollars and A-List names at his disposal . Gone is the stupid molded plastic physique and overuse of the bat-rope / grapplehook thingy . In it's place we have a Batman closer to the comic book . The unknown playing did so with attitude and anger , just like the character is supposed to be . And the dude who played the Joker was much better than Jack Nicholson and he didn't ask for £20 million for it either . This is a movie made by people who love movies , not by studios looking for a profit . Once the Joker is snatched away the movie becomes more than just a cool short , it's an action-packed mini epic . The Alien creature effects are flawless considering the budget and the Predator looks mighty cool . The fight scene with him and Batman is wicked and flawlessly choreographed . Though Batman doesn't know what he's let himself in for as half a dozen other Predators ( all seriously cool looking ) show up ( as do more Aliens ) for a royal rumble . It's at this point the film fades out , leaving us wanting more . A feature length version of this story would be MORE than welcome but what we get at the moment is ACE ! It's worth mentioning the music . It's all temp score but it's seamlessly put together . Using Shirley Walker's score for Batman : Mask of the Phantasm , Alan Silvestri's Predator Theme and James Horner's Aliens music ( the best of the four ) we have a movie with a score from beginning to end that is made of themes we all know and are familiar with . No Batman , Alien or Predator ( yay ! ) fan will be left disappointed or distanced . Sandy Collora's direction more resembles Tim Burton's dark visions on the first two Batman movies and nothing like the camp , neon coated nonsense of the last two . Batman : Dead End is more than enough to set the balance straight and make up for the travesty of Batman Forever and Batman and Robin . Give us the DVD please ! I will gladly pay top dollar !
No one leaves empty handed	A rather different approach to a ( radio ) quiz show . If you don't answer the impossible questions in a ridiculously short time you get tortured with falling boulders , cascading water , conveyor-belts with those spinning saws and whacks of a mallet to the head . Daffy Duck is wonderful as the demented host dishing out pain and humiliation to Porky Pig . But even Porky has his limits and soon turns the tables on the delightfully devilish Daffy . The entire cartoon is set in a sound studio so there's not much going on with the backgrounds . In this respect it's kinda simplistic . But when that small space is filled with such hyper-madness who can refuse ?
Best Animated Movie Ever	The second big screen outing of Lupin III is already one of the best Anime movies ever made , while rivalling anything Disney or Pixar has to offer . Green ogres , fat superheroes or a zillion gigabytes of computer animation still cannot compare to 12 frames of hand drawn charm . For the uninitiated , Lupin III is the grandson of Arsene Lupin , the gentleman thief , created by Maurice Leblanc in the Twenties . He's always breaking into some impenetrable vault , or has a zillion gadgets up his sleeve to help with escaping if things go awry . He's also rather wacky and buffoonish , which makes his antics a joy to watch . Hayao Miyazaki ( Spirited Away , Howl's Moving Castle ) , in his movie debut , tones down the out of control wackiness of the Lupin III TV show and gives Lupin a rather decent plot to dig his teeth into . This is not an excuse to string together a bunch of insane set pieces . Seconds after robbing a Monte Carlo casino , Lupin and Jigen discover that every dollar note they have swiped is a fake . Only one place in the world is known to make these counterfeits and Lupin's underworld knowledge leads them to the tiny European country of Cagliostro ( think Luxemburg , only much , much smaller ) . Half a moment after crossing the border , Lupin and Jigen are involved in a car chase and rescue the Lady Clarisse from a bunch of goons . But she's promptly kidnapped again , though manages to leave Lupin a clue in the form of a strange wedding ring . Their suspicions over the kidnapping lead them to the titular castle where they discover that an evil Count has seized control of the country , using - guess what ? - funny money . And the ring is the key to a great treasure that can only be uncovered when the Lady Clarisse is married to the Count . Lupin deliberately blows his cover to Inspector Zenigata ( the perpetually stressed Interpol officer who is always chasing him ) as a diversion , while he breaks into the castle to rescue Clarisse . What follows is scene after scene of hairs breadth escapes and impossible scenarios . Miyazaki's attention to detail is what truly elevates this beyond typical animation quality . There are enough moments of quietness and atmosphere to balance out the loud scenes . A strong sense of setting also comes from the imaginative " photography " . Too many animated movies disorientate the audience with frenetic direction and over-indulgence , but Castle Of Cagliostro works so much better by taking its time and choosing the best angles to cover the action . His trademark flying machines and overeating scenes make their first big screen appearance here . Far from his typical sub-genre of eco-friendly animation , Miyazaki is obviously a big fan of Lupin and has made a movie that refuses to be missed . Even Spielberg called CoC " one of the best adventure movies ever . " Any fan of Miyazaki should check out this film immediately . One should be aware that the Maurice Leblanc estate doesn't entirely approve of the Lupin III franchise . As a result he is mostly known in the new Optimum Region 2 DVD version as " Wolf " ( get it ? ) . The Manga release of this film was entirely re-dubbed in English with Lupin restored but the new Optimum DVD uses the original English voice actors .
Best action film of the late 90s	Jerry Bruckheimer's production style rarely makes a good movie but Con Air is one of those rare exceptions in which all the OTT mayhem and full-on action make a film so exciting it scorches when you watch it . Nic Cage ( in a typically bad performance ) is Cameron Poe , a US Ranger who is sent to prison for accidentally killing a thug who attacks his pregnant wife . After 8 years of porridge he is freed and hitches a ride home on a prison plane called The Jailbird . But this is no ordinary flight . On Board are a small army of America's toughest crooks including Cyrus ' The Virus ' Grissom ( John Malkovich ) a men on death row for murder , robbery , kidnapping and extortion . Nathan ' Diamond Dog ' Jones ( Ving Rhames ) , a black militant inside for murder . Billy Bedlam ( Nick Chinlund ) , inside for killing his cheating wife's family and dog . Pinball Parker ( Dave Chapelle ) , a pimp and drug-dealer . Swamp Thing ( MC Gainey ) a pilot who knows a few things about a good hijack . And finally Garland Green AKA The Marietta Mangler ( Steve Buscemi ) a serial killer in for killing a zillion people and crossing 2 state borders wearing a girls head as a hat . As you can tell , with such a eclectic bunch of psychos on board it's only a matter of seconds before all hell breaks loose . As soon as the plane is in the air the cons have taken over , restrained or killed the guards and have changed the destination from prison to South America . Poe , being the good-hearted sort of chap that he is , doesn't rat out as his best pal needs his insulin shot and no one else will help . It's up to Poe to sneakily round up the baddies until US Marshall Larkin ( John Cusack ) and the cavalry can get there . Easier said than done , as double-crosses , suspicious cons and incompetent authority foul everything up . The result is action overload as the film blazes through to it's anarchic , devastating climax upon another anarchic , devastating climax . At the end you'll be left breathless and your senses stinging with over-stimulation . Con Air is everything an action film should be . Steve Buscemi steals the whole show . His deadpan , bug-eyed and dare I say ' innocent ' portrayal of a deranged killer is the centrepiece of the whole film . The scene where he sings with a little girl ( and continues later on ) will either freak you out or steal your heart . And the ending is the best you could hope for . Mark Mancina and Trevor Rabin provide a loud , blaring score of thrash-metal and acoustic guitars with the usual Media Ventures flare . It's brilliant stuff and I suggest you hunt down the ( sadly incomplete ) score CD . And this really did deserve the Best Original Song award over that pansy Titanic one . Superior to both The Rock and Face / Off , Con Air is Nic Cage at his ( worst ) best as an action hero and Bruckheimer at his best as an action producer . See it , for the love of God , see it .
My favorite Spy vs Spy game	This one was almost tying with Spy vs Spy 2 but it comes out on top . Our spies are now in the North Pole after escaping the volcanic island on a submarine and once again have to outwit each other . Only every so often you have to go back to your igloo to warm up in case you freeze to death . Obviously there is a whole new range of booby traps and other dangers such as Polar Bears . The aim of this game was to escape in a rocket into outer space . An event that was supposed to lead into a fourth Spy vs Spy game , but it never got made . Damn good fun nonetheless . Graphics B Sound Gameplay A Lasting Appeal
The most influential action film of the last half-century	In the Sixties , author Roderick Thorp wrote a novel , The Detective , which was turned into a movie , starring Frank Sinatra in the title role of Joe Leland . A sequel was written , in which Joe becomes trapped in the Claxxon Oil Corporation skyscraper after it is taken over by German terrorists and he has to rescue his daughter and grandchildren . Two decades later , the skyscraper becomes Nakatomi , the daughter becomes the wife , Leland becomes John McClane and the title becomes Die Hard . To say that Die Hard sets new standards for action movies is like calling Bill Gates well off . The movie was so innovative and groundbreaking that dozens of rip-offs followed - Passenger 57 , Under Siege , Cliffhanger , Sudden Death , et al . Hostage / terrorist movies were all the rage in the early Nineties . Very few came close , because Die Hard had so many strong points , not least of which was Alan Rickman's marvellous performance , as Hans Gruber - also the name of the villain in Our Man Flint - the classically educated , smartly dressed terrorist leader . This is not some hammy guy in a chain-mail shirt with spikes on his gloves ( Commando ) . Gruber would have been well at home on Wall Street . His plan is to break into the vault on the 30th floor of the Nakatomi Plaza and take away $640million in negotiable bearer bonds . When he and his 12 European henchmen round up the office workers , who are enjoying a Christmas Eve party , one man slips away unnoticed . He is John McClane , a New York cop who has come to LA to settle down with his estranged wife , Holly ( Bonnie Bedelia ) . The odds are against him . But that's just the way he likes it . The terrorists even have names . And we remember them . Most action movies these days have unidentified heavies , played by stunt men , who are lined up and knocked over . In his battle to save his Holly , McClane is scorched , torched , beaten and blown up . He jumps off the roof and falls through air ducts . He uncovers deception and double-cross and picks broken glass out of his bare feet . No help comes from the naive and incompetent police , who are unable to get inside , and even less from the FBI . McClane is not a supercop . He is an ordinary guy , who doesn't want a fight . When he is shot , he bleeds . He hurts . All he has are his pants , his vest , his gun - which runs out of ammo . This is the first realistic connection the audience has . When you don't want to be in McClane's position , it makes for much excitement . John McTiernan , who's only previous mainstream movie was Predator , uses awesome photography and technical skills to give the film a truly polished and sophisticated look - it was nominated for four technical Academy Awards . He also allows for enough time for decent character development , most of which comes between McClane and a cop ( Reginald Veljohnson ) he makes friends with on a CB radio . Die Hard manages to be heart-pounding and teeth-gritting every single time . And if you are one of those many people who have only ever been able to watch it on TV then now is definitely the time to rediscover a cool , classic and creative action picture .
The only good Batman sequel	And a perfect film to watch during the holiday season as the winter / Xmas atmosphere that Burton creates for Gotham City is way cool . It's weird that Warner decided to release this as a summer film . It doesn't fit . But what's even weirder , when you consider the content of this film , is that it was aimed at families . An upper-class family throws their mutant baby down the sewer , a socio phobic billionaire dresses up in leather as a flying rodent , a lonely secretary dresses up in leather as a feline and a freak runs for political office . And S & M and bondage are presented in a very perverted way . But Burton got away with it . His visual style in this film is at it's best . This and Batman : Dead End are the only true live-action incarnations of the comic-book character . True , the animated series was the closest to the source material , but compared with Batman Forever and the un-nameable one after that , Batman Returns is the best of the four . Darker and more violent than the first movie , the sense of Gothic pathos reaches a new high . I was quite keen on Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne ( don't even get me started on George Clooney ! ) , he displayed the right balance of weirdo loner and cool crime fighter . Michelle Pfieffer is great as Catwoman ( much sexier and more ' realisticly ' cat-like ) , she wears that leather outfit better than Halle Berry . And Danny DeVito was so convincing as the Penguin that his scenes became disturbing to watch . And Christopher Walken is brilliant as the spooky Max Shreck ( if you think you recognise Chip Shrek it's none other than a very young Leatherface / Butterfinger ) . Danny Elfman's score is also even better than it was first time round . His powerful and engaging themes are way better than the dross that followed in the later 2 Schumacher movies . This movie is the Batman phenomenon at its Zenith . Forget the following sequels and stick to the animated series after this . Let's hope that Christopher Nolan and Christian Bale can bring some integrity back to the live action Batman with their movie next year . This DVD was one of the first ever DVDs released by Warner ( almost 7 years ago ! ! ! ) and as a result there are NO features and the case is a snapper . Pick it up cheap like I did and hope for an SE in the future .
A VERY VERY FUNNY MOVI	For a comedy this has a decent and inventive plot and Trey Parker and Matt Stone's comic timing is perfect . There are dozens of funny moments to this fantastic movie . I especially like the multitude of colors and the way the clash in the sports arena scenes . Robert Stacks Unsolved Mysteries spoof is also very amusing .
Cringeworthy genius	Set in the bleak , awfully-named industrial town of Slough and the fictional office of the Wernam-Hogg paper merchants , a BBC film crew documents the expressionless workers , ringing phones , copiers churning out clone after clone after clone , pointless meetings and pointless bureaucracy that exist within typical , uninspiring companies . Sadly , the majority of people in Britain work in dull , dead-end office jobs with lives that go nowhere and even the most meager of ambitions going unrealized . Maybe if they had a boss like David Brent their day would be livened up . Not because he's the ' boss / entertainer ' he thinks he is , but for the morbid curiosity of watching a desperate , delusional and detestable man slowly crash and burn . The majority of laughs in The Office come from awkward and embarrassing situations . Brent constantly forces his bullheaded and bawdy humor on unwitting staff . At first they appear scared of his ruthlessly imposing presence but towards the end they all ignore him completely . But he never realizes this and resorts to even more tasteless ways of getting attention . He loves the camera and rather than acting ' normal ' for the purposes of the mockumentary he exaggerates his beastly character to the point of being sickening . He gets what he deserves in the end and by this point the audience has lost all sympathy for him . His brutalized and beleaguered staff struggle to get on with their work as Brent's tyranny escalates . Among them we have Tim , an increasingly unhappy man who wishes to escape the monotony and drudgery ' ordinary life ' brings him . He's long had the confidence crushed out of him but still has more humanity than anyone else . Gareth is Tim's worst enemy . A dorky , 95 pound weakling who boasts of being in the ( territorial ) Army and is keen to assume more and more power from Brent's failing management . Like Brent , he has no clue about social interaction and behaves strangely among potential friends . Dawn is the receptionist . She is engaged to a controlling , unloving boyfriend who insists she spend her life doing dull work despite the fact that she has higher and happier dreams . She has feelings for Tim , and they are more than mutual . But fear of change and happiness stops her from falling for him . As soon as once branch of Wernam-Hogg incorporates the other it becomes clear how useless Brent is . The new staff are amazed at how such a horrid man has been employed at all , never mind become a boss . Complaints and unfinished work rise and the upper management are forced to take action . Sadly , Brent just won't learn . In the end , his staff have the slightest chance at happiness and escape . Brent however doesn't learn from his mistakes and will probably go on to have an endlessly miserable life . If you work in an office , get out ! Among the blackest of humor there is a message ; office life is fit for no human being . And Ricky Gervais ' dark comedy is filled with thousands of examples of why this is so . It's absolutely classic stuff that is far ahead of dozens of canned laughter sitcoms .
Now THIS is more like it !	Truly the BEST ever incarnation of Spiderman and the best animated show EVER ! ! ! Compared to previous animated Spidey's this was bold move , taking it in new , more mature and realistic directions . The 60's and 90's shows seem tame and childish in comparison . Taking place after the Spider-Man movie this show revolves around the college adventures of Peter , Mary-Jane and Harry who have much better chemistry , character and dialogue than the movie ever offered . Each episode provides more drama and development and creativity . The stories are very imaginative and are obviously written by people who are passionate about Spiderman rather than a studio hashing a product together . The computer animation is superb and resembles The Ultimate Spiderman comic book ( my fave ) more than anything . And I know Mary-Jane is only a CGI character but she is so beautiful , and she's voiced by the equally gorgeous Lisa Loeb . Neil Patrick Harris is the voice of Peter Parker and even in this performance he is a hundred times better than Tobey Maguire . The show also offers some new , interesting characters like Indy , Cheyenne and Silver Sable and gives us alternate takes on Electro and Kraven . Though I was curious as to why Aunt May was not involved . There is plenty of action and excitement to be had in every episode , all backed up to great music , MAN IS THAT THEME TUNE AWESOME ! Where is the soundtrack CD ? The show could not have asked for a better DVD presentation . Not only do we get an absolutely stunning 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen presentation but a thumpingly good , totally engaging DTS 5 . 1 soundtrack too . Each episode is a 22-minute movie that is far superior to anything the live-action effort was . There are also an abundance of extras on this 2-disc set , some interesting , some not . But a seriously good package for a great show . You must buy ! Fan or no fan of Spidey this DVD is too good to be without .
' Arrrgh ! I can't feel one of my legs ! '	Stir Crazy was one of the first films I ever remember watching , it came out the year I was born and I always associate 1980 with the time I came into the world and Stir Crazy . I was about 3 or 4 and my grandfather rented the video ( back in the early 80s , this was INCREDIBLY sophisticated ) . Even though it's pretty much an adult film , with swearing , nudity and adult themes , I found it to be hilarious at such a young age and I watched it few times . Over the years I've watched it more and more and I only just got round to buying the DVD a few days ago . And now , at 26 , the film is still just as funny as it always was . There is not a single unfunny moment from the beginning to the end , even though the last act gets serious and suspenseful . Gene Wilder and the late Richard Pryor play Skip Donahue and Harry Munro , two NYC losers who are making no money in their dream jobs of play-write and actor . Stuck with insulting service jobs they both get fired on the same day , at the same moment , for various reasons . Skip , the apparent ladies man and ever the delusional optimist , talks Harry into seeing it as their big chance to escape NYC and head for LA ' where you smile and they just POUR money on you ' . In their rusted , derelict combi , they make it as far as Glenboro , a hicksville backwater desert town , where they are promptly framed for bank robbery . Their lawyer is utterly useless and they are in jail before they know it , literally . Skip only realizes the seriousness of the situation as they are being shown into their cell . But when Skip shows he has undiscovered talents as a rodeo champ the crooked Warden forces him to compete in the annual rodeo competition , giving Skip , Harry and some others a chance to escape . The chemistry between Wilder and Pryor is insane . Skip is innocent , optimistic , romantic and sees the good in everything . Harry is cynical and reactionary and is frequently the real victim of Skip's impossibly good-natured personality . Everything they say and do is brilliant and every scene has something special about it that you'll remember always . It's literally impossible for me to pick out one in particular as they are all as great as each other . It's hard to believe that auteur actor Sidney Poiter directed this movie . I've never really seen in do a crazy , comedic performance , so for him to be so on-the-ball and humorous behind the camera is always a surprise when watching Stir Crazy . There's so many things that Stir Crazy has going for it . It's not just a crazy comedy , it's also a character drama with wonderfully surreal and authentic moments ( mass-mass-mass murderer Grossberger sining ' Down in the Valley ' and proving to be as timid as a kitten being one of them ) . If you don't find Stir Crazy funny , you're dead . And if you've never seen it . . . you're certainly no movie buff .
Great entertainment	This movie almost has everything . The action is cool , it's funny , 2 great leading men and a truly nasty villain that I REALLY hated . Not a lot of films have BAD bad guys . Just mainly comic book villains . He really does deserve a might ass kicking . Jake Scott really does have his fathers talent for knowing how to make great visuals . The direction is faultless and has an irresistible lighthearted feel . I don't usually like films set in the old days but this I liked a lot because it makes a point of boring like so many other period films are ( Sense and Sensibility , Age of Innocence and the absolute worst . . . Lady and the Duke ) . This will restore your faith . Thanx mostly to Craig Armstrong's amazing score . The music is both atmospheric and ethereal and in scenes of action it is very exciting . The DVD is in Dolby 5 . 1 and has a very grainy and muddy looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture .
BETTER THAN IT'S REP SUGGESTS	It was the most professionally one so far when it was made and they stopped using that awful grainy film . But they still lacked it in the scriptwriting dept . The same old trash with bad dialogue and teens finding some dumb reason to walk off into the woods and get killed . A few neat sequences and some elaborate deaths redeem it . Just don't count how many goofs there are . You'll be watching all day if you do .
The truth only depends on the angle you're watching from .	This was director Richard Rush's dream project and it took him nine years to get it on the screen . And , of course , it would ! It's multi-layered , original , funny and packed full of story and circumstance that makes you think . Why would any studio want to touch it ? Fox even sat on it for two years before giving it a limited release . Now , Anchor Bay has created the ultimate DVD and I urge you to buy it . The Stunt Man is a movie you'll never forget and even on its umpteenth viewing , still manages to be as intriguing as the first . It is a story told from the view of Cameron ( Steve Railsback ) , a Vietnam vet on the run from the law . He stumbles onto the set of a WWI movie and accidentally kills a stunt driver . The director of the movie is the eccentric and megalomaniacal Eli Cross ( Peter O'Toole , in one of his best ever performances ) , who takes Cameron under his wing and protects him from John Law , as long as he keeps his mouth shut about the accident . Cameron practices to be a stunt artist and takes the place of the man he killed . But as the movie shoot becomes more elaborate and dangerous , he falls in love with the leading lady ( Barbara Hershey ) and starts to suspect that Eli is trying to capture his death on film . Although it seems nasty , the movie is wonderfully light-hearted and the outrageous stunt scenes are backed up by a joyous score by Dominic Frontiere . I've been humming that theme since I was 12-years-old . A long scene with Cameron running over a rooftop , as biplanes attack and enemy soldiers give chase , is the stuff of legend . There is a great comic sense of humor in watching them trip over each other , fall off and get blown up . John Law do not back down on their suspicion of Eli and , through half-heard conversations and eavesdropping , Cameron's paranoia becomes increasingly justified . Because the movie is seen through his eyes we never quite know what is going on with Eli . Is he a madman , or just a crafty director ? Would you believe that O'Toole based his performance on his experiences with David Lean ? Why he never won an Oscar - it went to Robert DeNiro for Raging Bull - is beyond me . He truly gives the performance of his career , far exceeding even Laurence of Arabia . It also sucks that Rush never won for Director , or Adapted Screenplay . Had he been awarded the golden statuette , maybe he would have received more recognition . He's clearly a better filmmaker than most of today's hack artists . You simply have to see The Stunt Man . It's an overlooked gem and , despite the wide praise it received , it has never really reached a large audience . Now is definitely the time to rediscover this forgotten classic .
Zane steals the show	I was a big fan of the Tales from the Crypt TV show . Thus , I am a big fan of this movie . It feels a lot like one of the Creepshow movies but has enough gore , humor and OTT carnage to make it stand on it's own as well as being a big screen spin-off . Brayker ( William Sadler ) is a drifter who stumbles upon a lonely desert town after an explosive confrontation with The Collector ( Billy Zane ) , a supremely evil being with Satanical powers who is desperate to get his hands on Brayker's mysterious talisman . Brayker spends the night in a shabby motel but The Collector soon turns up and unleashes hell upon the motel and it's inhabitants . This is where the fun really kicks in . The Collector has fun enticing the residents ( made up of Dick Miller , Charles Fleisher , Thomas Haden Church , Brenda Bakke , Jada Pinkett-Smith and CCH Pounder ) to join him on his dark quest and steal the talisman from Brayker . Director Ernest Dickerson ( who also did Surviving the Game ) does not hold back on the gore as he spoofs 1950's B-movies , honor's the TV show and pays brilliant homage to the Tales From The Crypt comic book legacy . It may seem like a cheap , horror comedy with no artistic integrity but Dickerson successfully pulls of a movie that will satisfy and entertain anyone who watches it . Of course half of the movie's appeal lies with Billy Zane who acts out the role of The Collector with such wicked charm and delightful evil . You can tell he's having a great time and he makes a formidable villain for Sadler's dishevelled hero . They should make more Tales From The Crypt movies , but producer's Robert Zemeckis , Gilbert Adler and Joel Silver ( Walter Hill and David Giler ducked out ) went on to found Dark Castle , the production company behind House on Haunted Hill , Thir13en Ghosts and Ghost Ship . The new DVD by Universal is better than the old one from Image . This time be get the film in it's proper aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic with a Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack . The old snapper case is gone and in it's place is a sturdy keep case . Demon Knight is definitely one to get .
Why do people hate this film ?	I honestly don't understand what all the fuss is about . Why do people hate Waterworld ? Why was it instantly disregarded before it was even released ? When you really think about it , how much different IS Waterworld from the more recent Pirates of the Caribbean : Dead Man's Chest ? They are quite similar if you think about it . Waterworld also cost $75 million less than DMC . But because it has Johnny Depp in mascara the whole world loves it ! Hypocrisy ! With a lot of behind the scenes trouble ( Reynolds walked off the film and Costner had to finish the final third of filming himself ) and negative pre-release buzz , everyone expected Waterworld to fail . Boasting a budget of £175 million ( the most expensive ever until Titanic 2 years later ) it was sure to be a flop , especially with the snooty public and critics blasting it before its release . Then , the unthinkable happened . Upon release , Waterworld actually managed to prove critic expectation wrong and be a good movie , receiving good ( albeit ignored ) reviews and finally earning a grand total of $255 million at the Box Office . This is before video , laserdisc , TV , DVD and HD-DVD sales . Does sound like a flop to you ? The plot is far-fetched . Yes , but so is a plot involving fish-men , giant squids and Orlando Bloom as anything remotely masculine . But you accepted that quite easily . So just , for a minute , believe that if the polar ice caps DID melt that the world WOULD be covered in water . Set hundreds of years after this particular cataclysm , Waterworld follows the journey of The Mariner ( Kevin Costner , who is only referred to a few times but never actually named ) , a man who is one step beyond human as he has the ability to breathe underwater and has webbed feet . Early on in the movie , The Mariner comes across an Atoll , a floating small town complete with its own hill . . . er Waterbillies . When the Atoll is seized by crazed madman baddie boss Dennis Hopper as The Duke of the Deez ( as in Exxon Valdeez ) , The Mariner escapes with Enola , a little girl who may hold the secret of Dryland and her guardian Helen ( the totally gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn ) . Not happy with anyone leaving the party The Duke sends his army of filthy smokers to catch The Mariner and discover Dryland for himself . Waterworld has a lot going for it . It's everything an action / sci-fi movie should be . There is so much escapism in the stunning seascapes and tropical feel . James Newton Howard's exotic score ( replacing a rejected score by Mark Isham ) is breathtaking and I seriously recommend you hunt down the soundtrack CD . The action is almost entirely special effects and stunt-work and it's brilliantly done . The editing is also quite impressive as is the amazing sound design . Waterworld is far superior to many , more expensive action films but still carries this burden of negative , unfair public opinion . I have only ever seen the 136-minute cut of Waterworld that was released into cinemas and subsequent VHS etc . But a Director's Cut of 176 minutes has been shown on TV in America several times . This version apparently restores several scenes that tie up loose ends and answers a lot of questions about how the this particular watery future works as well as revealing that Dryland is actually Mount Everest . Other than TV airings , this version has never made available to the public . Which is quite annoying as there is a huge fanbase for it . Don't have prejudices against this movie . Think different and see for yourself how cool it is .
Disturbing but funny , even it makes you feel guilty	Welcome to the Dollhouse is a lot like the recent Napoleon Dynamite . Both have the cast decked out in hideous wardrobes with horrid 1970's-looking environments . Both are about high-school oddballs who face torment from the shallow popular kids . But while Napoleon Dynamite is rather light-hearted , WTTD is really dark and will make you cringe with guilt and quite often make you feel really uncomfortable . In fact , it has more in common with a true horror movie than it does a dark comedy . Heather Matarazzazzazzo plays the unfortunately surnamed Dawn Weiner , a girl blessed with strange looks ( meh-I like her ) and an uncaring ignorant family . E-ver-y-one around her is UN-BEE-LEEV-ABLY cruel to her in every way possible . And rage unconfronted continues forever . As are her bullies bullied themselves , Dawn goes on to bully others etc . It subtle idiosyncrasies like this that might go unnoticed in single viewings . Other characters are quite well drawn , especially Brandon , who didn't get enough screen time . His relationship with Dawn is quite intriguing . Most would think he's using her as a way of making himself feel better but when you think about it that's probably not entirely true . Perhaps Brandon likes Dawn because she isn't nasty to him like Cookie and the other girls were . She wasn't tarting all over him like Lolita in the library and she stood up to Brandon for punching Troy . Also Brandon apologises to her for vandalising her locker and the sad looks he gives her in the library appear to be a look of longing and wanting . Ironically , the biggest monster in the film is Dawn's own mother . She's a beast of a woman , completely ignorant of Dawn's needs and infatuated with her other younger daughter and far too supportive of her arrogant older brother ( his character is further developed in Todd Solondz's 2004 movie Palindromes , played by the same actor ) . Any scene with her will make you grit your teeth and shake your head no doubt . Too bad Heather Matarazzazzazzo is married ( err . . . to another woman-sigh . . . no chance for me now ) cause she's actually quite attractive in real life . Though I must say again her wardrobe in this film is ' EEK ' Seriously , you'll be questioning Dawn's fashion sense . But then she's probably only wearing what her mother buys for her and wants her to be seen in . If this movie impresses you then I dare you to check out Todd Solondz's follow-up Happiness . Now THERE is a film to dark and so unbelievably horrifying you'll be watching it through the gaps between your fingers and biting your lip in an effort to restrain the guilty laughter . But on it's own , WTTD is a great movie . Just don't show it to kids if your not down with frank portrayal of teen sexuality or bad language . Or do show them as a lesson in how NOT to treat people . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 2 . 0 sound . The print is a little beat up with track lines and speckles but it doesn't distract too much . There are no extras but I don't care .
I love it to death	This has to be one of the best action , western and gangster movies I've ever seen . Willis was perfect for the part of John Smith ( his voice-over has some of the best dialogue ever and if you don't believe me check out the opening scene ) , a gun for hire without a conscience . All elements of each genre are highly spoken for . The editing , dialogue , cinematography , music , direction and acting are all top class . Everything is fantastically overblown but never preposterous . As for the film itself , it is very empty but the mood and tone are so very distant and weird , and I totally love it . Walter Hills direction is a well balanced cross between Sam Peckinpah and John Woo . And Cooder's score will transport you right into the movie even on it's own . This wall always be one of my fave movies and it is very much worthy of 5 stars . The 2 . 50 : 1 anamorphic picture is stunning and there are rumors that Hill originally wanted to make it in B / W but New Line Cinema would not let him . To test this out turn your color right down and see how much the film's atmosphere is enhanced from already gloomy to undeniably depressing , BUT IT IS SO COOL . The DD 5 . 1 sound quality on this DVD during the gunfights is absolutely amazing . It will bug the hell out of your neighbors , but who cares ? Every now and again Walter Hill injects a sudden burst of ferocious , furious and brutal violence that takes your breath away . When people are killed they don't just fall down , they FLY across the room and thru windows . Extras are brief and not very good ( Cast Bios say that Die Hard 4 was released in 1998 ! ) and there is a cool clip of Loaded Weapon 1 hidden in there too .
