Jawdroppingly bad . . . appalling is more like it ! ! !	What must have looked good on paper turned out to be a case of bad concept , bad design , bad acting , bad singing , and the worst choreography ever seen in a major musical ! ! THE WIZ is so appallingly bad in its execution , that it staggers the imagination to think that anyone would think this film could make money at the box-office . Worst casting mistake : DIANA ROSS as Dorothy , a one-note impersonation of a frightened child ( although she's supposed to be a young adult schoolteacher ) . It's hard to believe she won an Academy Award nomination for LADY SINGS THE BLUES , so bad is she in voice and manner to suggest the Dorothy image made famous in the Frank L . Baum original . The others are so fully disguised as to be almost unrecognizable - - yes , even MICHAEL JACKSON as The Scarecrow completely misses the mark . Whatever laughs are attempted , they barely conjure up a chuckle . The big production numbers are a complete mess , either too intricately staged or filmed at such a distance ( " Ease On Down The Road " ) that there's no intimacy with the characters . Lumet was obviously the wrong director for this kind of material . And of course he had obstacles thrown in his way by the miscasting of all the major characters . A friend of mine used to use the phrase " Looks like two-cents worth of God Help Us ! " It's an apt description of this God-Awful mess of a movie .
Insufferable . . . schlock of the worst kind . . . a stupid waste of time . . .	SCHLOCK would have been a better title for this absurd excursion into a poor excuse for a fright flick . Nothing redeems it . Not the story , the sub-par acting from a mostly teen cast , the witless dialog , the tired old explanation for all the goings on , and the complete lack of logic . Whenever things get dull , another fright scene with someone gurgling on blood or turning into a gooey monster of decomposing flesh , is supposed to provide the kind of shock appeal to target a young audience . Let's hope the kids today are a bit more discriminating in their taste for horror . This one is below the mark all the way . The only redeeming feature is the sleazy look of the abandoned hospital grounds . Enough to make your skin crawl , disgustingly dirty , rundown and evil looking . But the story and the characters are an insult to anyone's intelligence , poorly acted and directed to make this a complete waste of time . A writer like Stephen King could have done something with the basic idea - - but it's too late now .
Dreadfully artificial bio of the world's most famous child star . . .	Did we all see the same movie ? ? ? I can't believe the raves some of the others are giving this really awful bio which , believe or not , was authorized by Shirley Temple herself , based on her book CHILD STAR . Gives me the feeling that some are awfully easy to please . First of all , ASHLEY ROSE ORR , whatever her modest talents are , in no way , shape or form even resembles Shirley Temple enough to be cast as her in this sort of straightforward biography of the world's most famous child star . She gives no indication of why or how this child was so revered except for trying her hardest to do a Shirley impersonation which never clicks on any level . None whatsoever . And that is the major handicap of the whole piece . But as if that isn't bad enough , any drama inherent in Shirley's story of her climb to almost overnight stardom has been completely white-washed with insipid writing peppered with occasional song and dance moments that don't even approximate what Shirley did ( as for example , " The Codfish Ball " with Buddy Ebsen which was probably the high point of Shirley's choreographed dance routines ) . Simply putting a girl in a polka dot dress doesn't make her Shirley Temple . None of Shirley's own brand of charm , warmth and appeal is even remotely suggested . All we see on display is a pale imitation of the original proving , once and for all , that there was only one Shirley Temple . It's worthless to write anything further about this mess . None of the others are more than ordinary in lifeless roles . My advice for Shirley's fans is to read her book - - or better still - - watch her movies . This is the pits .
There's no magic for Lassie in this dull story . . .	When THE MAGIC OF LASSIE opened at Radio City Music Hall , I was foolish enough to believe it would be as heart-warming as some of the first Lassie films were . Not . The story was abysmal , the songs by the Sherman brothers were way below their usual level , the characters were uninspired and JAMES STEWART and MICKEY ROONEY had both seen much better days . Then too , I was interested in seeing what ALICE FAYE's contribution would be like , since she'd been absent from the screen for so many years and was always so fetching in her earlier roles at Fox . Alice too , was letdown by the foolish script and the unflattering photography . Another disappointment . Nothing original here , nothing even remotely interesting for an adult to enjoy - - and clearly , no magic present for anyone . You can skip this one without missing a thing .
Hell on earth . . . appallingly bad script , bad acting , bad everything . . .	CONSTANTINE is one of those Prince of Darkness tales that defies description . It's so bad , I kept watching to see if it could get any worse . It did . Nowhere is there any coherence in the shell of a plot . The dialog uttered by KEANU REEVES and RACHEL WEISZ is unbelievably bad . As the Angel Gabriel , TILDA SWINTON is just plain annoying as well as absurd . SHIA LA BEOUF does his standard sidekick routine to little effect . The demons evoked by special effects are the only halfway decent aspects of the whole movie , particularly the one that tries to break out of a mirror image by shattering the glass . But aside from a few gripping moments with demons menacing the principals , the whole story carries about as much weight as a jar full of feathers . Pretentious junk aimed at the audience that thrives on comic book delights - - but insulting to anyone's intelligence with a script that defies description . Summing up : The hell with it .
I agree with Maltin's verdict . . . " pretentious pap adds up to zero " . . .	I can scarcely believe the cult status this film seems to be getting here at the IMDb board . It's a totally enigmatic mess of a nightmare " from end to beginning " , to coin a phrase based on the fact that the story is told backwards . If it made even one iota of sense to me , it was only toward the end when I had a clue as to what I suspected all along . But even then , nothing was clear and much of the story is unresolved so that you , the viewer , can fill in all the gaps depending on how brilliant and imaginative your mind is . The storytelling technique used here is a tricky one and altogether unsuccessful , in my opinion . As far as I'm concerned , short term memory would be a blessing if only to forget this one entirely . The payoff is zero , as Leonard Maltin has already suggested , and makes watching a film like this a total waste of time . GUY PEARCE does an okay job in the central role but his talent is totally wasted in a script that is as ungrounded in reality as his character is supposed to be . The film itself is all style and no substance , as pretentious and manipulating as any film can be that does not respect its audience . JOE PANTOLIANO and CARRIE-ANNE MOSS are competent but their characters are given coarse language full of expletives that should have been directed at the script they were forced to recite rather than inflicted upon a viewer patiently trying to follow a deliberately incomprehensible storyline . What hurts here , is there is no real solution to the puzzle , leaving the audience just as confused as the central character . What should have been a taut film noir turns out to be nothing more than a cheap shot at manipulation . Apparently , audiences these days are willing to swallow anything that seems unusual or offbeat in its appeal but - - even so - - there is no way I can account for the sort of comments I see here . Are we watching the same film ? ? ?
Forgettable short subject about horses . . .	Except for a glimpse of RONALD REAGAN , KENNY BAKER , DICK FORAN , MARIE Wilson and LANA TURNER , who were then the up and coming fresh young faces at Warner Bros . , there's really very little reason to watch this short subject from 1937 . An uninspired narration is severely hurt by the bad sound recording of the TCM print recently shown . You can barely make out what the narrator is saying about scenes showing Reagan and Marie Wilson at the stables petting a couple of horses . This opening scene at the racetrack is followed by an ice hockey game , again narrated in poor style so that it's unclear as to what we're supposed to be observing . Then , the only good segment shows a horse performing tricks and this should have been the main subject of the short since the animal is put through a series of surprising tricks you'd never expect to see outside of a circus . Then , to add insult to injury , we get a title that says , " A Foot to be Shod " - - and The End flashes on the screen with that segment cut entirely from the print . Not exactly a good short , to put it mildly .
Hardly more than a cheap exploitation film . . .	This riddle of a film is directed by a man who narrates the DVD with a commentary that makes about as much sense as the film . When you finish hearing it , you will have no more understanding of the story or characters than you did before - - except for one thing . You will learn that he harbored sexual fantasies about young garbage collectors that he viewed as they went about their tasks outside his window . Thus , he made up a scenario about such fantasies . The faults are extensive , beginning with the disjointed screenplay which sheds no light at all on any of the authority figures surrounding the young protagonist or why they are all forcing him to submit to sexual humiliation . His obsessive desire for the man of his dreams is based on one chance meeting and thereafter he stalks the man until he finally " catches " him - - by tying him up in tape and handcuffing him , then depositing him in a dark alley behind his house where he leaves him to wander off to a place that holds endless fascination for the director - - a garbage dump . The sexual scenes are not even sensual , let alone truly erotic , and most of them take place in the dark , with some of them simulated and not graphic at all . The actors are all unknowns with no previous experience and go through their paces with a modicum of credibility . It's as though the director tried to say something important without saying anything at all except to give us visual images of a deserted landscape , a handsome boy and his quest for some sort of sexual bonding with another man . But a story about dark obsession needs a script , needs characters , needs a beginning , middle and end and this has no structure at all . Fittingly , it all ends in a garbage dump . It's a riddle that not even the Director's Commentary clears up . He himself seems to make no sense of most of the proceedings , so why should we ? It's pretentious , at best , and hardly more than a cheap exploitation film . Astonishingly , it has won a few awards at film festivals which can only make you wonder what they were thinking .
Why they should never make remakes of classic films . . .	STATE FAIR - - the 1962 version - - is barely watchable . If it weren't for the Rodgers & Hammerstein songs , it would be a complete misfire . As it is , it just makes you yearn for the simple charm of the 1945 version that starred JEANNE CRAIN , DANA ANDREWS , DICK HAYMES and VIVIAN BLAINE in the roles occupied here by PAMELA TIFFIN , BOBBY DARIN , PAT BOONE and ANN-MARGRET . Jose Ferrer really struck out with this one , eliminating all the charm of the Technicolored version starring Crain as Margy , the girl who meets a newspaper man and falls hard . Then too , FAY BAINTER was ideal as the homespun mother worried about her chance of winning the prize at the fair for her jam , while here it's an ill-used ALICE FAYE making a sentimental return to Fox after years of retirement from the big screen . The songs are done only adequately , no more , and ANN-MARGRET cheapens the story with her interpretation of the singer at the fair . And even ALICE FAYE's throaty way with a song seems diminished by time . Summing up : Completely tasteless , boring version of the " American as apple pie " musical that first surfaced in 1945 .
Bad mix of comedy and drama . . . awful mess of a script . . .	How did two successful Hollywood stars of the magnitude of CARY GRANT and GINGER ROGERS ever sign on to do this totally unappetizing story after reading the script ? How did one of Hollywood's finest directors , Leo McCarey , write and direct this sort of trash ? How did this manage to open at one of New York City's most famous theaters ( Radio City Music Hall ) in 1942 with World War II still raging ? And why , on earth , did anyone stay awake after the first half-hour of this flat comedy romance that has an ultra ridiculous plot , something about Nazis pursuing a journalist and his wife while the war is threatening Jews with concentration camps . The humor is baffling ( the jokes are at the expense of Nazis and Jews ) and WALTER SLEZAK has a predictable role as - - what else - - a Nazi , of course . It's Ginger and Cary caught up in a hapless mess of a movie that has to be seen to be disbelieved . That anyone went for this pap is almost beyond reason . Summing up : In other words , a real dud you can afford to miss .
This " Broadway Brevity " wasn't brief enough . . .	Twenty-two amateurish minutes of a Vitaphone " Broadway Brevity " short , this is strictly cornball stuff that should have been discarded , just as vaudeville died . Nothing I can say about the musical interludes except that they fall flat , the dancing is clumsy and the intentionally funny clumsiness of Gil Lamb is barely good for a few chuckles . It's a sort of " 42nd Street " sketch with the rooftops of Manhattan supposedly telling the stories of a disparate group of patrons who enter the club , all with weak back stories that are supposed to give some significance to the " rooftops of Manhattan " theme . Evidently , there was no Busby Berkeley around to give this a shot in the arm . It's barely watchable and highly forgettable as entertainment .
Horrible . . . this is the kind of programmer that gave Poverty Row a bad rap . . .	How anyone can lavish even the faintest praise on this junk is baffling to me , since THE LIVING GHOST is a cliché ridden mystery with some vain attempts at humor . Furthermore , it's ineptly performed by the entire cast and appears to have been filmed on a quickie basis with no close-ups introducing the chief suspects . JAMES DUNN makes an abysmal attempt at playing detective and JOAN WOODBURY is no more successful as the lame-brained secretary of the lobotomized man at the center of the mystery . Question is : Which one in the wealthy man's household tried to do him in ? None of the suspects have enough time on screen to become viable characters and it's never quite clear why Dunn takes such an immediate dislike to the poor butler whom he treats with utter contempt , even when he's being helpful . Juvenile at best , it's the kind of film the Monogram factory churned out on a weekly basis in the ' 40s , barely deserving a spot at the bottom end of a double feature bill . A ridiculous tax on anyone's reason or patience - - mercifully , it runs only one hour .
Gorgeous Norwegian scenery in search of a plot . . .	SONG OF NORWAY is an unbearably dull musical pastiche of clichés heard in every musical ever made that purported to be the saga of a composer's struggles to find recognition for his music . Edvard Grieg's struggles are so dull as to be non-stop in this awful compilation of Norwegian scenery by the truckload with no story to carry it . It is notable that the man who plays Grieg , TORALV MAURSTAD , never did make another American film , so disastrous were the reviews and box-office for this dull saga . Note also that FLORENCE HENDERSON was not able to make another film in Hollywood but went directly to television and stayed there for a very successful run on " The Brady Bunch " . See the film and you will judge yourself why it was an abject failure . And don't be fooled by the presence of OSKAR HOMOLKA , EDWARD G . ROBINSON and ROBERT MORLEY in the cast . They have little or nothing to do . Music lovers may be enchanted by Grieg's works , but not the way they are presented here . Nor is there any resemblance between the zestful SOUND OF MUSIC and its picturesque way of dealing with the Von Trapp Singers and this dull as dishwater musical that would work better as a travelogue of Norway with the plot excised . See it at your own risk .
Foolish comedy is strictly for B-film addicts . . .	Even the presence of EDWARD EVERETT HORTON who is at his flustered best , can't save this innocuous little comedy from being a total bore . ROSS Alexander's career never did materialize as Warner Bros . hoped , and this film must be one of the reasons why . He's the spoiled rich boy in a girl meets boy story striving for a Cinderella touch , since the girl is a poor waitress posing as the daughter of a rich couple so that they can mingle with high society . Nothing works , not even the idea of a waitress disguised as a rich girl . ZaSu PITTS and GUY KIBBEE are the wealthy couple and JUNE MARTEL plays the hapless girl , making no impression at all . Even for a programmer , it's a total waste of time .
Staggeringly awful piece of angel cake . . . this is the pits . . .	I'll say one thing for Jeanette and Nelson - - even when stranded in a mirthless , witless , painfully inept musical like this , there's still that twinkle in their eyes . Yes , the chemistry between the famous duo is there even when the material is paper thin . Even when the score is practically a throwaway , non-existent one depending on just a couple of catchy tunes . And even when the circumstances are so unbelievable - - yes , even for a fantasy . Truth to tell , she has more chemistry with Nelson than with her own real-life husband Gene Raymond in SMILIN ' THROUGH , which , nonetheless , was a considerably better film . Sorry , I love Jeanette and Nelson as much as the next fan , but this is the bottom of the heap . Jeanette is more than embarrassing in her one " hep " number with Binnie Barnes - - and Nelson can only come up with a blank stare when faced with the most ludicrous situations . One can only wonder what this was like on Broadway in 1938 . Surely , it must have had more wit and style than is evident in this weak MGM production . Edward Everett Horton fizzles in an unfunny role and none of the supporting players can breathe any semblance of life into this mess . It's like amateur night at the studio even with the few professionals sprinkled among the supporting cast . Summing up : Painfully clumsy rendering of a Rodgers and Hart musical . Can't recommend it , even for fans of MacDonald and Eddy . And even if Jeanette's close-ups still glow with her gossamer beauty , this film is jaw-droppingly bad .
Why must a morality tale be so hard to digest ? ? ?	The Thornton Wilder OUR TOWN approach to staging a small town cross-section of townspeople using a stylized approach ( few props and bits of scenery ) , has been used again sixty or more years later for DOGVILLE . However , I found the results stagnant and artless , instead of artful . No doubt the pseudo-intellectuals will pounce on this sort of disagreement and proclaim the film as some kind of masterpiece . It all makes as much sense as the seven figurines in Ma Ginger's window . Dialog is supposed to move a plot forward - - but not in this case . It crawls through so much pretentious prattle in examining why NICOLE KIDMAN should stay or leave Dogsville that it is stultifying in its emptiness . To put it kindly , Kidman's performance adds nothing to her stature as an actress . Her work can best be described as tentative . PAUL BETTANY , on the other hand , rises to the occasion with an earnest performance as her best friend in the village . The bareness of the staging is equal to the bareness of the plot . Very disappointing to watch people like LAUREN BACALL ( totally wasted as Ma Ginger ) and BEN GAZZARA ( as the blind man ) in such sketchily written parts . Summing up : Definitely not my cup of tea . Even morality tales should make their point by the time the story is halfway over . The over-the-top ending with the entrance of JAMES CAAN can only be described as deplorable .
Weak little musical doesn't give anyone a fair chance to shine . . .	This is strictly JUDY GARLAND before she became the Judy we all know . Ditto for the ill used FANNY BRICE , whose " Baby Snooks " routine on radio was socko with millions during the ' 40s but looks bad here . The story , a dumb one even for MGM family musicals , is about a bunch of eccentrics in a family that are intent on putting on a show ( where have we heard that one before ? ) , and bursting into song numbers at the drop of a hat . Unfortunately , none of the numbers are anything worth remembering ( or hearing , for that matter ) . The whole thing falls as flat as a pancake by the time it's even into the middle section . BILLIE BURKE does her usual fluttery act as a dizzy mother and MGM was still , at this point , trying to groom ALLAN JONES for stardom , but he's even more wooden than Nelson Eddy ever was . He too is saddled with some hard to like songs to give his tenor pipes a workout . As one who enjoyed the best MGM musicals which came along in the ' 40s , from a studio whose musical talent was the uncontested best , this is simply a foolish yawner with no interest except serving as an early glimpse of JUDY GARLAND , who is unable to overcome this weak kind of rubbish . Same goes for the entire cast . Summing up : Strictly below average as entertainment .
Mother / son theme gets soggy treatment . . . another interesting failure . . .	Poor Ingrid suffered and suffered once she went off to Italy , tired of the Hollywood glamor treatment . First it was suffering the torments of a volcanic island in STROMBOLI , an arty failure that would have killed the career of a less resilient actress . And now it's EUROPA 51 , another tedious exercise in soggy sentiment . Nor does the story do much for Alexander KNOX , in another thankless role as her long-suffering husband who tries to comfort her after the suicidal death of their young son . At least this one has better production values and a more coherent script than STROMBOLI . Bergman is still attractive here , but moving toward a more matronly appearance as a rich society woman . She's never able to cope over the sudden loss of her son , despite attempts by a kindly male friend . " Sometimes I think I'm going out of my mind , " she tells her husband . A portentous statement in a film that is totally without humor or grace , but it does give us a sense of where the story is going . Bergman is soon motivated to help the poor in post-war Rome , but being a social worker with poor children doesn't improve her emotional health and from thereon the plot takes a turn for the worse . The film's overall effect is that it's not sufficiently interesting to make into a project for a major star like Bergman . The film loses pace midway through the story as Bergman becomes more and more distraught and her husband suspects that she's two-timing him . The story goes downhill from there after she nurses a street-walker through her terminal illness . The final thread of plot has her husband needing to place her for observation in a mental asylum . Ingrid suffers nobly through it all ( over-compensating for the loss of her son ) but it's no use . Not one of her best flicks , to put it mildly . Trivia note : If she wanted neo-realism with mental illness , she might have been better off accepting the lead in THE SNAKE PIT when it was offered to her by director Anatole Litvak ! ! It would have done more for her career than EUROPA 51 . Summing up : Another bleak indiscretion of Rossellini and Bergman .
Depression movie is depressing . . . big time !	Only the scene featuring SHIRLEY TEMPLE singing the title tune is worth watching . Othersise , this has got to be one of the worst musicals ever to come out of the ' 30s . The script is a mess , the editing is downright atrocious , the performances are flat , and nothing to keep your eyes open happens until Shirley bursts upon the screen with James Dunn and chorines in one of her most charming song-and-dance routines . Believe me , the rest is worthless as entertainment and not even satisfying as a curiosity piece of the Depression era . Let's face it . Shirley Temple became a star despite this mess of a movie and all because of one great number .
Most overrated movie of all time . . . a tedious bore to watch for three hours . . .	Except for technical brilliance in photography and settings , this is possibly the most boring of all the epic movies to come out of the Hollywood mill . Not only is it difficult to praise the storyline , which wanders all over the place and never gives you time to sympathize or care about the characters , but the film is overbloated with dull scenes and some ludicrous casting . Jack Nicholson as Eugene O'Neill ? ? ? Give me a break . Warren Beatty is at his most obnoxious throughout and Diane Keaton makes a most unattractive co-star in a bland and underwritten role as his adoring sweetheart . Unlike another tale told against the Russian revolution , DR . ZHIVAGO , this film seems claustrophobic from beginning to end , darkly lit interiors and muted color giving it all a very dull finish . How the Academy voters got so excited over this one , I'll never understand . It's one of those films where , by the time " The End " flashes on the screen , you're ready to breathe a sigh of relief that the whole impossible thing is over . Sorry , but this is about as atrocious a piece of film-making as I've ever witnessed . Hard to see how anyone can enjoy this film who does not come to it with a complete background in the history of Russia during a time of great upheaval . Even then , it is a clumsy piece of work that seems to have been created to puff up the overwhelming ego of its star / director who obviously thought he was creating another CITIZEN KANE .
Pretty odd , pretty awful . . . Paul Newman's debut is best forgotten . . .	I have to agree with the negative comments on this one . First of all , let's begin with the good points . It got two Oscar nominations - - one for William Skall's color cinematography and the other for Franz Waxman's tasteful background score . Indeed , the only tasteful thing about the film is that score . PAUL NEWMAN at least doesn't have to be ashamed of how he photographed in color because he makes a handsome film debut ( physically ) but was apparently given no directions from Victor Saville on how to play the role of a man who worked on the framework for The Silver Chalice . His is a bland performance at best and it is undercut even more when he has to share the screen with the terribly miscast VIRGINIA MAYO . Mayo looks as though she just left the chorus line of The Goldwyn Girls and had the artists paint her eyebrows in what someone must have assumed would resemble women of antiquity . She saunters around in her veiled costumes as though she is about to break out into a burlesque queen's rendition of a bump and grind song number . JACK PALANCE steals the show with his overwrought , maniacal performance as a magician who begins to believe in his own ballyhoo ( or his own press clippings ) and thinks he can actually fly without any contraptions aiding his flight . Oddly enough , his caricature of a role fits into the scheme of things , seeing as how the stylized sets and costumes suggest nothing more than comic strip vision . Adding to lack of credibility is the casting of NATALIE WOOD as the young Helena who turns into Mayo as an adult . Now that would take the work of a major magician . LORNE GREENE , in his film debut , and E . G . MARSHALL struggle with poorly defined roles in the supporting cast . Summing up : Dismal . The only question is , what inspired Franz Waxman to write such a pleasing background score ?
Dreary stuff . . . RKO giving Fontaine the starlet treatment . . .	A man runs for mayor on a bet . The mayor's daughter meets him at a political campaign and it's hate at first sight . The chill only lasts until their next encounter , but by then we know this is a formula romantic comedy and they'll both be in love for the windup . After a few more misunderstandings , PRESTON FOSTER and JOAN FONTAINE walk off arm in arm and the simple plot is over in an hour . Strictly an RKO programmer that passed the time in ' 37 , a time when JOAN FONTAINE was being promoted as a new RKO starlet but given material that would have defeated any other ingenue . There is nothing here that suggests she would go on to an Oscar-winning career . PRESTON FOSTER carries the main burden , as does Herbert Mundin as his timid valet , and the whole thing has the look of a B-film that nobody had much faith in . Interesting only to see the two leads in their prime but with very little chemistry between them . Trivia note : Whether it's because his make-up is too dark or not , even in B & W Foster's eyes come across as bluer than Paul Newman's .
Dumas ' tale of twin brothers strikes out this time . . .	It's strange that THE FIFTH MUSKETEER leaves me with the impression that it's hardly worth watching despite a stellar cast and some gorgeous Austrian scenery . BEAU BRIDGES ( in a dual role as a commoner and Louis XIV ) does a competent but bland job in the film's major role , while assorted guest stars fill the supporting cast with some name value . One of the guest stars is OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND who might just as well have phoned in her role . She has about three minutes of screen time , at the most . None of the main roles are really fleshed out and the plot is a muddled mess . JOSE FERRER , CORNEL WILDE , ALAN HALE , JR . and LLOYD BRIDGES are competent enough as the four musketeers while REX HARRISON and HELMUT DANTINE merely add some name recognition to the cast , as does de Havilland in her tiny role as Queen Anne ( about whom little is explained ) . It's a retread of familiar material done much better in the past , territory that would be revisited in the future with even more dash and vigor . A sleep inducing film that probably only gets male attention because URSULA ANDRESS and SYLVIA KRISTEL provide some feminine pulchritude in provocative period costumes . The most unforgivable aspect are the fight scenes of the swashbuckling kind but badly choreographed duels , unlike the sort of thing done so splendidly in the Flynn epics . The blades flash without much flourish . Summing up : Totally uninspired piece of work notable only for some lavish costumes and good location photography in Austria .
A disaster film in more ways than one . . .	EARTHQUAKE's biggest selling point , back in 1974 , was that theaters were advertising it as being released in Sensurround , a process that had your theater seat shaking and trembling while buildings fell and bridges collapsed and Los Angeles went up in flames . Unfortunately , it was a gimmick that dragged a lot of people into seeing this mess on the big theater screens to get their money's worth out of Senssurround . Whether it was worth or not is doubtful , because the script of EARTHQUAKE is so bad that all of the big name actors in it are seen at their most vulnerable . AVA GARDNER is improbably cast as Lorne Greene's daughter . She was fading fast in the looks department and her role was not worthy of her abilities to create a believable character . CHARLTON HESTON is her hubby but he has eye on the much younger and still bubbly GENEVIEVE BUJOLD . There are other sub-plots going on but none of them manage to create more than an idle interest until the buildings start to crumble under a crippling earthquake . When one character says , " Be careful crossing that bridge , " you just know that's a signal for the next special effect to take place . The Special Effects did win an Oscar but look pretty shaky from the perspective of the passage of time . Come to think of it , I've seen even more spectacular effects in B & W films like THE RAINS CAME back in the ' 30s . Summing up : Trivial plot is an excuse for L . A . to burn - - not worth waiting for .
I have to go with the detractors on this one . . . ultra corny mush . . .	THE GIFT OF LOVE has got to be one of the most cringe-inducing movies I've seen from the ' 50s when sentimental tear-jerkers were still the rage , especially if they were dressed up in handsome Technicolor photography and settings . . . and preferably , with stars like ROBERT STACK and LAUREN BACALL for box-office appeal . This one is a sad remake of an even weepier B & W original called SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY that starred Maureen O'Hara and John Payne ( with Connie Marshall as the little girl ) , a Fox film so banal that you wonder why they bothered to toy with the script again . It's still banal , all the way , with a ludicrous script and inept performances you've got to see to believe how bad the acting is . LAUREN BACALL is the noble wife who knows she has a terminal illness , so she prepares the little girl and hubby for her demise , wanting them to go on loving each other and helping each other when she's gone . That's the plot , in a nutshell , and naturally - - when she dies - - hubby goes off his rocker and makes thing difficult for the girl , ending up sending her back to the orphanage where they adopted her . What happens after this will try your patience to the utmost as the girl leaves her snug bed at the orphanage to run out into a rainstorm with her toy horse along the seashore . You know whatever happens next will reunite her with her father , who seems to be getting a message from his dead wife that the girl needs emergency help . It's as sticky and mushy as these things can possibly be with ROBERT STACK at his absolute worst feigning mournfulness over his wife's sudden departure - - the scene of him at her gravesite is almost laughable . And the little girl ( EVELYN RUDIE ) makes you appreciate what a marvelous actress Shirley Temple was as a child star . Surprisingly , it's all directed by the wonderful Jean Negulesco , who must have been forced into fulfilling contract demands to even come near this maudlin script . I see from the other comments that this sort of nonsense appealed strongly to teen-age girls when first viewed . I hope they have a chance to reconsider calling it " wonderful " if they see it again as adults .
Insufferable comedy of manners . . . too quaint , too precious for words . . .	No wonder KATHARINE HEPBURN was considered box-office poison around the time of QUALITY STREET . As a James M . Barrie heroine , she's as mannered and coy as ever in a silly , very dated comedy of manners that never manages to be the witty romp it strives to be . Only FRANCHOT TONE gives the story any semblance of wit or reality , looking handsome and fit as the suitor who finally sees through the deception around him . James M . Barrie has had little success in being transferred to the screen , except , of course , for his PETER PAN . His other works became feeble domestic comedies on screen - - namely " Alice Sit By the Fire " which became DARLING , HOW COULD YOU ? with Joan Fontaine , and worst of all , QUALITY STREET . Both deserve to be forgotten . I would venture to guess that this is the sort of dated period fluff that gives films of the 1930s a bad name . ( Unfairly so , since many films of the ' 30s were deservedly praised ) . It's so stylized in its comedy , so forced in its humor that even the wonderful ERIC BLORE is at a loss as to just how many double takes he should do . Even such wonderful actresses as ESTELLE WINWOOD and FAY BAINTER have a hard time doing anything with their material . Do yourself a favor and skip this one . Not even the staunchest James M . Barrie fan will want to sit through it . Trivia note : If you're alert enough , you can catch Joan Fontaine in a bit role .
Benchley in another one of his supposed amusing lectures . . .	I don't know whether my sense of humor is amiss , but frankly I never find these dry ROBERT BENCHLEY short subjects very intriguing or all that original . He gives a lecture facing the camera on the " romantic " process of digestion , complete with a chart that shows the course food must take when it enters the human body . He talks of the teeth being " sentinels " before food is allowed to be tasted on the tongue and thereafter follows the usual progress toward the stomach , where it plays around in the " playground " area before going on to other digestive chores . The chart with its various markings is supposed to be funny . Neither illuminating nor very witty , if it manages a few chuckles it's lucky . Benchley is as intentionally unconvincing as ever and since the man has all the charisma of a wet sponge , it's just not my cup of tea . Dry - - very dry instead of droll .
What were they thinking ? ? ? . . . awful remake of classic John Ford film . . .	Although this is a remake of the famous and far superior John Ford masterpiece , HURRICANE manages to be one of MIA FARROW's least impressive jobs as an actress - - not entirely her fault since the script , based this time on the Nordhoff-Hall novel , is a mess . It's really not the same storyline used in the Ford film . The only similarity to the original is that it ends with a furious hurricane that cost $22 million to recreate but doesn't save the disastrously weak story from being anything but an unmitigated bore . The love interest is practically non-existent , consisting of close-up stares between Mia and her island sweetheart . Whenever there is any dialog , it's about as clumsy as can be . ( Example : When he proposes that they elope , he says : " Come to the altar with the white flower - - I will be there with the red . " ) Somebody should of been there with some directorial talent . Jan Troell falls far short of John Ford , as does the script . Usually , it's worth it to sit through a boring romance to see the howler of a hurricane . In this case , not so .
Mary Pickford stars in early version of " Ramona " . . .	Except for some nice visual touches in the B & W outdoor photography , this RAMONA from D . W . Griffith is easily dismissed as the primitive work that it obviously is . Certainly MARY PICKFORD is nobody's idea of a Spanish girl but here she has a black wig and tries to look the role rather than the fair-haired image we usually have of her . Her acting style , as so often in these silents , is terribly over-the-top by today's standards and so are most of the others in the cast , particularly HENRY B . WALTHALL as her Indian lover . The story is compressed into two reels , which is probably just as well considering the limitations imposed on it by silent screen techniques and title cards that attempt to tell too much in too little time . It's all over before it begins . A time capsule of early attempts to create feature films .
Sub-standard kiddie romp belongs at the bottom of the sea . . . just awful . . .	It's hard to work up any enthusiasm for this awful cartoon-like epic that for some reason has become a cult classic . It certainly can't be because of the totally artificial look of the set designs or the limpid acting of an all-star cast . These days it's shown much too frequently on Fox Movie Channel or AMC . It pains me to report that veteran actors like Walter Pigeon and Joan Fontaine are even cast in this muddled science fiction travesty , none of which rings true . It's like watching an expensive budget being spent on a Saturday afternoon kiddie show full of cardboard characters and unconvincing dialog . It's a comic book version of the Jules Verne novel . The maturing Fontaine was still attractive but wears a pained expression on her face , perhaps regretting that she had accepted the role of the psychiatrist before reading the script . She contributes absolutely nothing to her cardboard role but an imperial and uncomfortable presence and looks totally out of place most of the time . Faring no better are Robert Sterling , Barbara Eden and - - most of all , Peter Lorre - - as well as Frankie Avalon , who gets to sing the title tune which - - it's safe to say - - did not become anyone's favorite title tune . An awfully frustrating experience to sit through a film like this which wastes an attractive cast and is an insult to almost anyone's intelligence . Totally unconvincing from start to finish . The film , as well as the fantastic submarine , sinks to the bottom of the sea long before the fight with a rubber octopus brings the film to a dreary conclusion .
Never able to watch the whole film . . . Dunaway is strictly a caricature . . .	I'm not even one of JOAN CRAWFORD's biggest fans , but I think what they've done with the novel MOMMIE DEAREST is totally stupid and unworthy of any sort of detailed film comment . Not that I had any hopes that the screen version would be on a quality level with Masterpiece Theatre . Hardly that . But it certainly trashes the movie star with incidents that seem exaggerated to hold the attention . FAYE DUNAWAY's Joan Crawford is the sort of caricature that would be more appropriate on the Carol Burnett Show , where famous screen heroines were often ribbed in their award-winning roles . She indulges in a series of poses guaranteed to draw derisive laughter . There are limits to anyone's patience and even for the sake of a few laughs ( or chuckles , to be more exact ) , this is such a poor imitation of the book that it's no wonder Dunaway had any professional reputation after making it . Not that the novel had any real literary merit , but at least it did provide some insight into Crawford's psyche and the reader was free to decide when creative license was taken . It's all one big clichéd treatment , as glossy and artificial as any Joan Crawford film ever was . Any resemblance between the creature pictured here and reality is purely coincidental . . . at least that's what the foreword to this film should have warned the audience for the sake of warning the gullible not to believe everything depicted here . This is schlock of the worst kind , an insult to plain intelligence and too scmaltzy to convince me that it rings of the truth . There is no balance to the treatment . All of it is painted in broad strokes that verge on caricature , more and more so as the film goes on . Summing up : Worth skipping . Trivial and artificial .
Dreadful Technicolor short is early Warner Bros . use of color . . .	SYBIL JASON is the girl whose father dies and leaves her the owner of " Wonder Horse " . The rest of the short film has Sybil in full Shirley Temple mode - - laughing , crying , singing - - but all to no avail . Let's just say it's best to remember her in the two Technicolor films she made with Shirley Temple in the late thirties . As for the all-star cast , you get a fleeting glimpse of EDWARD G . ROBINSON and OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND , a bit of humor from FRANK McHUGH and HUGH HERBERT , some attempts at humor from AL JOLSON and RUBY KEELER , and an altogether sappy racetrack story that has been done in better films a hundred times over . Every cliché imaginable has been trotted out in the space of 18 minutes . Summing up : No kudos for this one .
Uninspired oddity is better left forgotten . . .	It's not that ALAN YOUNG and DINAH SHORE don't try to bring some life to a lifeless , uninspired script co-authored by Claude Binyon , who directed this mess . Considering what they have to work with , they sometimes rise to the occasion and produce a few chuckles . And as the villains of the piece , ROBERT MERRILL and ADELE JERGENS contribute somewhat to what few laughs there are . Shore is a country bumpkin lass who longs for the big city and is taken in by on-the-lam gangsters ( Merrill and Jergens ) who are really after the $20 , 000 worth of savings . Young is the equally country hick neighbor enamored by Shore and willing to go to the extreme to extricate her from the clutches of the villains . It has a L'IL ABNER flavor to the sets and costumes but the score is rather commonplace and no help in bringing any entertainment value to the ponderous farce . It's films like this that probably put a hex on DINAH SHORE's stab at a film career . Wisely , she was content to enjoy her TV stardom .
The sparkle is missing in flat comedy	Before Olivia de Havilland made her remarkable comeback in 1946's To Each His Own , she stepped in as a last minute replacement for Paulette Goddard in ' The Well Groomed Bride ' , her first film after her two year legal battle with Warner Bros . Unfortunately , the script is so slight ( about de Havilland and Milland fighting over rights to the last champagne bottle in San Francisco - - she wants it for her wedding , he wants it to christen a ship ) . The laughs are scant although Olivia , Ray Milland and Sonny Tufts try hard to keep things bubbling . De Havilland manages to be pert and pretty as the heroine , Milland is his usual adept self at comedy and even Sonny Tufts manages to make his big " conceited muscle " role likeable at times - - but the whole thing fails to get off the ground . The weak script defeats everyone , including Percy Kilbride as de Havilland's dad . Only avid fans of Ray Milland or de Havilland should watch this one - - which does not turn up on TV these days - - Paramount obviously deciding it wasn't worth saving .
Has a Neil Simon feel to it , without the punch lines . . .	I can't say I share the great enthusiasm others show for this essentially two-character Broadway play by Bernard Slade that seems so much like a Neil Simon piece without the constant punch lines . Perhaps it's because every line spoken by ALAN ALDA sounds as though he's delivering the kind of remark that deserves a punch line . His comedy style was always very effective , but his dramatic acting always left me cold . ( Think THE MEPHISTO WALTZ ) . ELLEN BURSTYN , of course , is at home with a flair for either dramatics or comedy and she's served well by the sentimental script about two adulterous couples who spend one week-end a year for 26 years in each other's company because they don't want to give up their marriages and find each other soul mates . That's the crux of the story and it moves from year to year showing the gradual changes in their characters as time and events effect their separate lives . I just never felt the material was strong enough to support the kind of screen treatment it gets here with the opening up of the stagebound scenes doing some harm to the characterizations . Alda plainly seems to be overacting ( over-reacting might be better ) , and one is never sure whether he's going to break out of character and into a Neil Simon parody of one with his sometimes flippant line readings . Personally , a film I could do without , even on a rainy day . These are two people I never could care that much about .
Gritty coal miner drama about a rebellious secret society . . .	RICHARD HARRIS is an informer who works his way into THE MOLLY MAGUIRES , a rebellious group and a secret society of Irish immigrants working under brutal coalmining conditions of 1876 . Harris is suspected of snooping by SEAN CONNERY , the leader of the group , and it is their scenes together that make the film worth watching . Although realistically set in a Pennsylvania mining town , lovingly photographed with detailed attention to all the grime and soot , it fails to come to life as it should , given the caliber of the stars involved . SAMANTHA EGGAR has the only important female role and is a splendid addition to the cast , but somehow the film fails to have the kind of pace it needs to remain stimulating and reaches a rather inconclusive climax . A very atypical score by Henry Mancini adds to the atmosphere , but this is a film that never had broad enough appeal for the mass market . Fans of Harris and Connery should find it rewarding enough .
Lilli Palmer makes debut in British crime melodrama . . .	Crisply paced British crime story about a gang of jewel thieves preying on high society is reminiscent of the David Niven / Olivia de Havilland caper RAFFLES . This one is about a man who appears to be a dapper thief eluding Scotland Yard . It turns out he is posing as a thief , but is really a lawman infiltrating a jewelry gang and working for Scotland Yard . LILLI PALMER , looking almost unrecognizable in her first screen role with the usual plucked eyebrows of the ' 30s style , deftly handles the role of a girl who participates in the gang robberies . All of the Scotland Yard scenes are well handled by a cast of British actors . ESMOND KNIGHT gives an appealing performance as the lawman impersonating a dapper jewel thief in true David Niven style , always fashionably attired . Palmer plays a girl who lives by her wits but wants out of the crime game and wants Knight to quit too . Both of them have never met Maddick , the head of the gang , but fear him . The surprise is in the revelation of Maddick . Summing up : Routine story , very British style , offers nothing new in the way of crime capers .
Elizabeth in another " am I crazy or not ? " sort of role . . .	I saw NIGHT WATCH on Broadway with Joan Hackett and recall being fascinated by the murder mystery and the number of suspects in a story about a woman claiming to see a murder from her window . It's the stuff mysteries are made of . Then , a couple of years later I saw the film and didn't realize I was watching the same story . It seemed familiar but there were a lot of changes . The most obvious change was the wife , played now by ELIZABETH TAYLOR , still gorgeous in the role Hackett played originally . Now Taylor was the unwanted wife and somehow that didn't ring as true . Then there was LAURENCE HARVEY co-starring and the whole story expanded to have Taylor in luxurious townhouse surroundings . The clutter of suspects had been reduced to just a few others , so that the guessing game was not quite as difficult . And yet , having forgotten most of the play , I was still surprised at the ending - - and that , in itself , is probably reason enough to watch the film . It does hook you into the mystery and does come up with a surprise ending . And let's face it . It's among the better films Taylor was making at this point in her career .
Odd and creepy horror film , but ultimately disappointing . . .	To better understand what the director was attempting to do , I read many of the other posts on this film after watching it - - because , clearly , it was a murky way to tell a story about an odd little boy who thinks he might be going blind . Some of the explanations seem valid enough , but that still doesn't make AFRAID OF THE DARK any more than an experimental film that doesn't quite have the payoff intended . The boy , played by BEN KEYWORTH , wears extra thick glasses and sees the world in a distorted way . It's through his vision that we perceive what's happening , although much of the action is in his mind and is not reality . That's why there are so many layers to get through if you want to enjoy the film . Frankly , I was annoyed by some of his choices - - particularly , the incident involving the dog Toby - - and the only character in the story that I could fully relate to was the father , played by JAMES FOX . Well mannered , he seemed an understanding parent but was willing to put up with an awful lot of wrong and downright odd behavior from his son . Certain elements of the film were original in concept , such as the knitting needles and how they took on a different significance in the final scene , but overall there were many moments that seemed to drag , the pace suffering from bad editing . Not the sort of film I'd want to watch again and ultimately has to be considered a disappointment for a film that had so much potential to begin with .
Vienna of 1888 recreated for the cameras on " Mayerling " . . .	This is a short promotional piece from MGM in connection with the filming of MAYERLING in Vienna , an historical costume drama starring JAMES MASON , OMAR SHARIF , CATHERINE DENEUVE and AVA GARDNER . Never having seen the film itself , I can only say that they certainly were striving for authentic locales , filming scenes in actual formal dining rooms of the palace of Emperor Franz-Josef ( Mason ) , and at the actual train station where royal dignitaries arrived in a country that was restless for independence against the Hapsburgs . AVA GARDNER , as Elizabeth of Austria , was beginning to lose her fabled beauty by this time and the narration says she made the " brave decision " to play Omar Shariff's mother . She still looks glamorous in costume and make-up , as does the still lovely CATHERINE DENEUVE as Maria , a woman in love with Gardner's son ( Sharif ) , Archduke Rudolf . Looks like a very ornate production , gilding the lily as only MGM and its financial resources could do when making a costume romance with an historical background . A few clips of actors going through their paces under director Terence Young's supervision while cameras follow them everywhere makes for a modestly interesting behind the scenes glimpse of proceedings . Summing up : Formula promotional short to lure audiences into seeing their latest product . Interesting as a curiosity piece only .
Silly comedy that wastes the talents of a good cast . . .	RINGS ON HER FINGERS is the story of a shopgirl ( GENE TIERNEY ) who dreams of riches and accepts the idea that if she joins a gang of con artists she can escape her department store existence and live it up as a rich girl . The unlikely con artists are played by LAIRD CREGAR , SPRING BYINGTON and HENRY STEPHENSON . All of their plans go haywire when Tierney falls for simpleton HENRY FONDA , doing a reprise of his role opposite Barbara Stanwyck in THE LADY EVE as the guy taken for a sap . The story only livens up considerably during the final twenty or so minutes involving a merry chase in an airport terminal . But most of it is directed unevenly by Rouben Mamoulian who was never known for his prowess with comedy . Tierney manages to be lively in a one dimensional role and Fonda does his usual imitation of an earnest , down to earth guy who wants nothing more than to find the right girl to take down the aisle on his $50 a week job . Only unusual element is seeing Spring Byington in a part different from her usual sweetly sentimental roles . Silly and totally forgettable .
Wayne and Russell in low-key Quaker western . . .	This is not your run of the mill JOHN WAYNE film . It's not exactly a rootin ' tootin ' western with gunfights galore . Instead , it's the quiet , leisurely paced tale of an outlaw ( Wayne ) befriended by a Quaker family , most particularly a girl ( GAIL RUSSELL ) who helps heal him when he suffers a shoulder wound in a gunfight and is taken to the ranch house of the Quaker family . It's a good hour before Wayne and his buddies run down a bunch of cattle rustlers led by BRUCE CABOT , but the action soon returns to the Quakers and the romance between Wayne and Russell . The story is somewhat reminiscent of WITNESS , the Harrison Ford film about an outlaw and a Quaker family and their influence on his behavior . Wayne is fine as the cowboy with a habit of getting into barroom brawls , the kind you'd expect to see in a John Ford film - - which this isn't , complete with bouts of humor . GAIL RUSSELL is a pretty gal , especially in all the loving close-ups , but let's face it , she was never much of an actress and is pretty vapid in the leading lady role . IRENE RICH does nicely as Russell's mother and HARRY CAREY and PAUL HURST are good in supporting roles . The film is obviously aiming for a quaint sort of charm with its Quaker theme , but it's really pretty forgettable material and one of the less vital John Wayne films .
A misfire with irritating chewing-gum performance from Ginger Rogers . . .	The corn is definitely more than green in this uninspired farce which is broadly played by every member of the cast except GEORGE MONTGOMERY . Based on the same story that CHICAGO was based on , ROXIE HART has GINGER ROGERS , chewing gum and batting her eyes while on the witness stand when she gets caught up in a murder trial in rowdy ' 20s Chicago . Rogers is too cute for words , emerging as a caricature throughout . Hers is not the only overly flamboyant performance . ADOLPHE MENJOU is a bit over-the-top as her lawyer , but GEORGE MONTGOMERY gives one of his most natural , effortless performances as the man who narrates the story and takes part in the screenplay . Someone else has cited him as " that guy George Montgomery that I never heard of " and says he's the reason the film fails to succeed . Not true . Actually , it's the Ginger Rogers role of a tootsie type of hoofer who prevents the film from becoming the comedy it aspires to be . That plus heavy-handed direction from William Wellman , a man usually associated with heroic male action films and not comedy or satire . Definitely belongs among those films from Rogers that failed to reach their potential - - chiefly because of a misguided performance on her part . This came shortly after her Oscar-winning role as KITTY FOYLE , so it's an example of how she vacillated between good and bad roles during this phase of her screen career . She seems to be enjoying herself enormously as the center of attention , but it's all to no avail . As for GEORGE MONTGOMERY , he was far from being a sub-standard leading man as the other commentator suggested . His star was on the rise in the early ' 40s and he was also well-known as the husband of the legendary singing star and TV personality , DINAH SHORE .
MGM Parade Show # 4 . . . George Murphy is the host . . .	Decidedly a mixed bag of stuff used for an MGM promotional short hosted by genial GEORGE MURPHY . The first segment opens with a view of the MGM waterfront where many ships still remained after used in films ranging from SHOW BOAT to MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY . First off is the story behind a ship that became known as a " ghost ship no longer alive " when it was discovered floating on the ocean with no survivors aboard . The ship was The Mary Celeste and the mystery surrounding it is explored briefly with scenes of what might have happened aboard the mystery ship before it disappeared in 1872 with the mystery never really solved . Gears are shifted quickly to the next segment featuring an animated cartoon about baseball pitchers , giving new life to phrases like " kill the umpire " or " let's warm up the new pitcher " , with a Goofy-like cartoon character serving his wild pitches . Then , for no reason at all except to promote an upcoming film , Murphy changes the subject to French and we see a scene from GOOD NEWS featuring JUNE ALLYSON and PETER LAWFORD doing " The French Lesson " , a nimble Technicolor musical number from the forthcoming MGM film . Oddly , this MGM short is photographed in B & W ( 1955 , you know ) , so that even when color films are introduced they're all shown in B & W . And finally , a dramatic moment from a film called TRIAL is shown , featuring Dorothy McGuire , Glenn Ford and John Hodiak . As the smiling host , Murphy seems a bit overwhelmed by his corny scripted remarks . This show is a reminder of how things have changed on TV since ' 55 , both in style and format , but is worth a look for nostalgia buffs .
Talky , unpredictable , but too esoteric for its own good . . .	CARY GRANT has an offbeat role as a distinctly offbeat doctor in this comedy / drama that takes unpredictable twists and turns while telling the tale of a doctor with an unusual bedside manner . Under strange circumstances , he becomes enamored of one of his patients , JEANNE CRAIN , who plays the heroine in her usual arch manner , rarely changing her demure expression . Everyone speaks in the most flowery , esoteric manner as though they had just graduated with a degree in philosophy . In short , the script is about as unrealistic as could be and contrived every step of the way . And to coin a phrase from the title , " people will talk and talk and talk . " At one point , Cary asks his wife , " What seems to be your problem , Mrs . Praetorious ? " That's what I'd like to know . I still haven't figured these people out - - sophisticated one moment , childish and immature the next . It strains for the kind of sophistication and wit evident in ALL ABOUT EVE , but falls far short of the mark . Grant does well enough in his odd role , but Jeanne Crain is a distinct liability , doing most of her acting with her arched , artificially enhanced eyebrows . I usually love Jeanne in her less sophisticated roles , but not here . Hume Cronyn as his envious adversary and Walter Slezak as a good-natured friend bring a little humor into their roles , but it isn't until the last fifteen minutes , when we learn the explanation for the doctor's dark secret and his relationship with the FINLAY CURRIE character , that the purpose of the story makes any sense . Quality production values , but a script that is too talky for its own good .
George O'Hanlon as Joe McDoakes in typical short . . .	These Joe McDoakes shorts were popular in the ' 40s and this one is all about horses . We meet Joe who " always has a horse . " He thinks he's going to divert others from picking the winner by spreading the word that so-and-so is a sure bet to win , knowing full well that his own winning pick will be kept secret . Naturally , the horse he gives the tip on , wins the race . Or else he picks a winner based on some random philosophy about numbers - - the 7th day of the 7th month , etc . Nothing works out . In the end , he's a real loser following the horses in a way he never expected to - - and still a loser . Passes the time , but nothing special . Trivia note : The spoof of LOST WEEKEND provides a few funny moments .
Ann Sheridan in a Warner B-movie before full-fledged stardom . . .	MYSTERY STREET gives laconic DICK PURCELL the leading role , while ANN SHERIDAN is seen in one of her early roles at a time when the studio was grooming her for bigger things in the future . She's a nurse caring for a crotchety old woman ( ELSPETH DUDGEON ) in a wheelchair , an old woman who is annoying as all get out as she bosses everyone around . The setting is a snowbound hunting lodge , a handsome cabin where all of the suspects in a rich man's murder are gathered for the weekend , while Sheridan summons her boyfriend detective Purcell to unravel the murder case . He does so , with the help of a few clues that lead to the murderer's identity and in time for a happy ending with Sheridan promising to marry him . It's standard stuff , respectable enough to play the lower half of double bills back in the ' 30s . Fans of " Perry Mason " on TV , will recognize WILLIAM HOPPER ( with dark black hair ) , but most of the cast consists of largely unknown players . Lasting only a brisk 56 minutes , it passes the time quickly and is a moderately entertaining B-film mystery .
Trouble in the mines . . . trouble with Muni's accent and overacting . . .	BLACK FURY could have been a straightforward story of miners being exploited by greedy bosses and directed by Michael Curtiz , that's what it ought to be . But at its centerpiece is the character of PAUL MUNI as a cheerful " honkie " coal miner with an accent thick enough to cut with a knife and chewing all the scenery in sight . Performances around him are uniformly good under Curtiz ' strong direction , but he lets Muni get away with the some of the wildest bits of overacting he's ever done . If you can sit through this one without cringing at Muni's overbaked job of acting , you may be able to watch the film more objectively than I did . Did I mention that the story is strictly on the depressing side ? For starters , Muni's sweetheart ( KAREN MORLEY ) runs off to Pittsburgh with another man , police officer WILLIAM GARGAN , turning Muni's world upside down when he planned on marriage . Disgruntled miners are upset by union bosses and the plot thickens as one of the miners ( J . CARROLL NAISH ) sets up Muni and his friends for trouble as he collaborates with the union leaders . Muni doesn't know he's being used as a scapegoat for the union . He only realizes it after Croner ( Naish ) leaves town with Muni held responsible for the resulting mess and riots . Every plot turn from then on plunges the story into darker territory with Muni caught up in a skirmish with police that causes the death of his best friend . For the finale , Muni gets out of a hospital bed to bring about an explosive climax at the mine with girlfriend Morley returning to redeem herself in his eyes . Summing up : Melodramatic mess despite strong direction by Curtiz , hampered by Muni's overwrought performance which some commentators have mistaken for good acting .
Early color cartoon has its moments with advertising products . . .	BILLBOARD FROLICS is an early two-strip color cartoon in which billboards advertising ' 30s products come to life with uneven results , some funny , some mystifying and others just falling short of being really humorous . Toward the end , it turns into a cat chases bird sequence that becomes tiresomely familiar to all devotees of cartoon shorts . The animation is on the rough side , without the finesse we expect to see but didn't happen until the ' 40s , and the overall result is a bit disappointing . Best moment comes at the start , with the EDDIE CANTOR billboard coming to life with a jaunty " Merrily We Roll Along " song number . Other billboards become animated with results varying according to one's familiarity with the products . Cutest one : The Little Dutch Cleanser girls who step off the advertisements and do a Dutch dance . The kiddies will be amused even if the ads are for products that no longer exist .
Breezy comedy with music courtesy of Dick Powell . . .	DICK POWELL is a cab driver with singing aspirations who doesn't mind holding up traffic while he demonstrates his singing prowess to a couple of captive passengers who are so impressed they arrange an audition for him . Only in the movies , only in the movies . This is another one of those improbable Warner Bros . comedies with a far-fetched plot that has him spoiling his radio audition when his song turns out to be a children's ditty with his part relegated to imitating barnyard animals . With the mike still on , he loses his temper and the job . When JOAN BLONDELL , as assistant to radio manager GRANT MITCHELL , is assigned to Italy , who should follow her ( as a stowaway aboard ship ) , but Powell , still intent on impressing her with his singing . Before you know it , thanks to his pal ADOLPHE MENJOU , Powell gets work as a gondolier . After that , the plot follows the rather familiar course of boy meets girl , boy loses girl , boy gets girl , all in musical comedy fashion of the ' 30s . Dick Powell has a pleasant , if unremarkable voice and his tenor serenading is pleasing enough , as is his flair with light material . Of course , he bowls over the radio station's sponsor ( LOUISE FAZENDA ) the moment he lifts his voice in song within earshot of those he needs to impress as he rows his gondolier in the moonlight . Naturally , Blondell re-discovers him in a new setting and romance blossoms . It's the kind of set-up Warners would use later for their female star , DORIS DAY , always being discovered for either a radio show or Hollywood by Jack Carson or Dennis Morgan in her early Warner comedies that used the same formula . It's pleasant nonsense , easy to take , and makes no special demands on your viewing pleasure if you enjoy watching DICK POWELL and JOAN BLONDELL so obviously enjoying themselves . None of the songs are particularly memorable and it's the kind of film soon forgotten after one viewing , but obviously it offered the kind of entertainment that answered the needs of undemanding Depression-era audiences .
Programmer merely passes the time . . . trite script , poor performances . . .	Trivia note : Darryl Hickman turning into James Craig as an adult ? ? ? I don't think so . JAMES CRAIG and WILLIAM LUNDIGAN co-star as two orphans who are reunited years later when Lundigan is a Mountie and Craig is a big gambler who started his gambling career in JOHN CARRADINE's gambling joint as a kid . PATRICIA DANE is a self-confident singer from Frisco who catches the eye of Craig when she makes the mistake of applying for a job from Carradine . KEENAN WYNN has a supporting role as Carradine's sidekick . Strictly a third-rate B-picture from MGM , reminiscent of many another programmer about a woman who comes between two friends . Production values are on the low-budget or modest side . PATRICIA DANE is stiff and unconvincing as the girl both brothers love . Lundigan looks good in his Mountie uniform but both he and Craig are on the bland side as far as screen charisma is concerned . Craig's role as " Blackie Morton " seems like a poor imitation of Gable's " Blackie Norton " role in SAN FRANCISCO . The plot hinges on Carradine losing his gambling place and then gambling Craig to win it back . A showdown of a fight between Craig and GRANT WITHERS over a gambling debt , at a mine , has Withers falling to his death down a mine shaft . When Lundigan announces he's going to marry Dane , the rest of the plot has to do with how Craig's murderous ways will be discovered , including the truth about the mine shaft murder , and how the love interest will be resolved . Of course , good wins over evil . When the chips are down , it's up to Lundigan to play the hero and solve the problem his way in the tradition of the Mounties " always getting their man " . Sorry to say that handsome JAMES CRAIG is totally unconvincing as the black-hearted gambler in this poorly directed and scripted programmer and Lundigan's role is so underwritten he can do little with it . It merely passes the time quickly with a short running time .
Only marginally successful as play and film . . .	There are times in ON A CLEAR DAY YOU CAN SEE FOREVER where you know Vincente Minnelli had a firm hand on the proceedings and there are moments when BARBRA STREISAND does an outstanding job on the vocals . But there are just as many dull spots in the long-winded musical that is stronger when it's showing flashbacks to Victorian England than it is in getting us involved in the modern day story . Once again , Babs has the spotlight while the men around her are insufficiently used - - men like YVES MONTAND ( did he ever find a good role in an American film ? ) , JACK NICHOLSON and JOHN RICHARDSON . She's adept at playing a girl who undergoes psychosis and reveals to her doctor ( Montand ) that she has another veddy British lady , Melinda , inside her , who has much more class than her modern personality . Naturally , the doctor falls in love with her other persona . The Broadway musical by Alan J . Lerner was never an overwhelming success and the movie fails to maintain steam once the basic plot is set in motion . It's a lush looking affair , especially the Victorian scenes with Streisand in some stunning Cecil Beaton outfits , but the overall effect is one of emptiness at the heart of the story . Summing up : No doubt Streisand's fans will probably welcome it with open arms as it does showcase her own brand of talent .
A kitten's best friend is his guardian angel . . .	This is a cute but undistinguished Chuck Jones cartoon ( his first ) and it falls far short of being truly funny . Another drawback is that the kitten is no match for Figaro in Disney's " Pinocchio , " lacking the charm and humor of that kitten in the way it's animated . The whole situation is predictable from the start . The kitten's father is ill , so he has to hand over the job of night watchman to the kitty . Naturally , the mice take full advantage of the situation , which gets completely out of hand until the kitten's guardian angel ( halo and all ) gives him a serious pep talk which turns the kitten into a tiger who puts an end to all the boorish behavior of the mice . Unpretentious , but not a lot of fun . The style is too crude for the film to have the cuddly charm it aims for . In other words , it's a wobbly start for Chuck Jones .
Artificial melodrama with psychological overtones . . .	JUNE ALLYSON is really irritating in this one . She's got the petulance down pat , pouting throughout what is supposed to be her great dramatic role ( musicals being her forte ) . MGM obviously hoped that this would prove to be a turning point in the way of future dramatics for the usually sunny June . Seems she's supposed to be despondent over losing her dead father at an early age , unable to accept his death and unwilling to depart from his memory ( like him , she plays piano constantly ) , unable to accept her step-mother , CLAUDETTE COLBERT , who is concerned about Allyson's psychosis - - especially when Allyson starts imagining that Claudette's love interest ( WALTER PIDGEON ) is in love with her . To give it class , MGM made sure they used some classical music for Allyson to play , gave it elegant sets and an overall polished look that might have worked well on a better film . But this is so obviously supposed to be a psychological tear-jerker to give Colbert and Allyson strong dramatic roles . Unfortunately , the contrivances are so pat and the overall effect so absurdly superficial that all you can do is hope JUNE ALLYSON will get over her dramatic ambitions and do the things she does best . Nice cast , including ROBERT STERLING ( as Allyson's more sensible brother ) , PATRICIA MEDINA , MARSHALL THOMPSON and LIONEL BARRYMORE ( as a crusty old doctor ) , helps somewhat , but nothing can disguise the fact that they're all wasting their time in a phoney melodrama adrift in the usual Hollywood psycho-babble meant to be taken seriously .
Easily forgettable but not a total failure . . .	If there's one thing MR . IMPERIUM has going for it , it's the delight of hearing EZIO PINZA's strong bass do justice to a few pleasant songs , most of which he sings while serenading LANA TURNER , who's principal job in this one is to stand around and look beautiful while Pinza's voice takes over the soundtrack with gusto . Other than that , it's a fanciful story that's been used hundreds of times before - - a commoner ( Lana ) falls in love with a prince ( Pinza ) and their on again / off again romance ends with a bittersweet decision on his part to return to his kingdom when it needs him . That's about it for a storyline - - and along the way MGM gave the stars a supporting cast that includes BARRY SULLIVAN , SIR CEDRIC HARDWICKE , MARJORIE MAIN and DEBBIE REYNOLDS , all of whom have very little to do . It's been given a glittering MGM look with Technicolor visuals straight out of a storybook and the usual lavish care given to sets and costumes . Turner looks lovely and gives a warm and capable performance , but the lip synching in the opening number is a bit obvious . ( Fran Warren supplies her singing voice ) . The script is flimsy , and doesn't get the same amount of attention as the art direction and costumes , so it's easy to forget this trifle as soon as it's over . It does provide pleasant but artificial entertainment while it lasts . Worst flaw : There's very little chemistry between Turner and Pinza who was in his late fifties when this was filmed and never did click in his screen career .
The worst of everything . . . riddled with clichés . . .	I'm sure Rona Jaffe's book examined the lives of working girls a little more seriously and with better intent than THE BEST OF EVERYTHING , which is about as cliché-ridden with ripe dialog as any film in memory , perhaps eclipsed only by VALLEY OF THE DOLLS . On the plus side , there are ravishing shots of bustling New York City in the heart of mid-town Manhattan and the credits open with Johnny Mathis singing " Love Is The Best Of Everything . " That's as good as it gets . The story of four office girls considering whether to choose career over marriage ( while being stalked by men with raging hormones ) is the same old tripe we've seen dozens of times , usually with more finesse . All of the men - - STEPHEN BOYD , BRIAN AHERNE , LOUIS JOURDAN and ROBERT EVANS - - are depicted as scoundrels just a few steps better than Jack the Ripper or the infamous Don Juan - - treating the girls in the typing pool as though they are part of a harem . The girls are the usual blend of disparate types - - with SUZY PARKER , HOPE LANGE , and DIANE BAKER being the most conspicuous in having to deal with unscrupulous beaus . And for good measure , we have JOAN CRAWFORD as the female boss from hell in what is little more than a cameo role . Crawford makes the most of it . And so it goes . It's soap-opera , plain and simple , ' 50s style , but nowhere as accomplished as some of the other pulp fiction of the period that made it to the big screen . Watch at your own risk .
Geraldine McEwan is not Miss Marple according to Christie . . .	There are so many departures from the original story in A MURDER IS ANNOUNCED , but unfortunately the biggest departure of all is GERALDINE McEWAN as Agatha Christie's Miss Jane Marple . McEwan never suggests a clever old lady able to assimilate information while never dropping her knitting , deceptively fooling others into thinking that she's incapable of solving murders . Instead , McEwan comes cross as a sly old lady , sticking her nose into the affairs of others in a manner that borders on cunning deceit instead of a simple desire to get at the truth . She never looks as though she's pensive and thoughtful enough to solve anything , the way JOAN HICKSON did in her brilliant interpretation of Miss Marple . Furthermore , the complicated plot has been tampered with to the extent that it doesn't even follow Christie's tale with any accuracy . If you want to see the definitive version of this clever Christie story , you owe it to yourself to watch the 1985 version which remains one of the best TV adaptations of a Christie novel by sticking fairly closely to the original plot .
Struggles to mix black comedy with horror for mixed results . . .	WILLIAM KATT suffers from the sudden death of a suicidal aunt , the disappearance of his son , the end of a marriage and nightmarish Vietnam memories - - and this is all before he moves into the HOUSE . Of course , he should have known better than to try to settle down to some quiet writing of a novel about Vietnam in the very house that his aunt resided in before her demise . No surprise that he then begins to experience all sorts of what appear to be hallucinatory fantasies caused by his traumatic experiences in the war . This would all make sense if the film followed a logical flow of events - - but none of what happens in the house is even remotely believable . In other words , if you want logic with your horror , you won't find it here . KATT has an appealing screen presence ( he's the son of Barbara Hale and Bill Williams ) and looks strikingly like his father . He handles his role well , keeping a serious face throughout all the implausible situations . GEORGE WENDT ( from " Cheers " ) is his inquisitive next-door neighbor . It's moderately entertaining although it does take time for the horror aspects to take over . Not really deserving of an even less appealing sequel that came out a few years later .
A quick look at animal talent in this Pete Smith Specialty . . .	It's a dog's day afternoon at the talent scout's office . By the end of the day she slams the door on a man who shows up with a monkey . " Can I show you a trained monkey ? " Slam ! That's the tone of this MGM short with some dogs doing some amazing balancing acts - - or jumping through a swinging trapeze , balancing on a wheel , balancing on a man's hand in acrobatic fashion . The dog handler himself had acrobatic training before becoming a dog trainer . And finally , there's a stunt with a big black bear that has the talent scout fed up with all the nonsense . Not one of the best Pete Smith specialties , but amusing enough .
King of the Warner B's in routine prison story . . .	DICK FORAN was an amiable Warner player during the ' 30s and ' 40s who spent most of his time as a singing cowboy or playing the romantic lead in a number of trifles as the studio's dependable B-budget star . His real life experience as a band vocalist is used to good effect as a prisoner who gains some respect with a pleasant singing voice , despite an adversarial relationship with chaplain JOHN LITEL ( another stock Warner player ) . Foran does a nice singing and acting job in this otherwise rather ordinary story about a man who has to prove his innocence after being wrongly convicted of murder , thanks to the underhanded work of DICK PURCELL . As the love interest , JUNE TRAVIS has little to do , nor does VEDA ANN BORG as Purcell's scorned girlfriend . It's not hard to take and moves briskly at one hour and 12 minutes .
Zorro-like adventure from Columbia is really an inflated B-film . . .	Italy in 1848 is the setting for MASK OF THE AVENGER , which borrows heavily from every Zorro-like swashbuckler or " Count of Monte Cristo " film ever made . Columbia's fledgling stars , JOHN DEREK and JODY LAWRENCE play the romantic leads with ANTHONY QUINN lending his presence to a colorful supporting role . He was on the verge of his own big-time stardom . Derek is the masked aristocrat who must engage in swordplay with military tyrant Quinn . Although given Technicolor and some appropriate sets , it has the look of a second-rate epic indistinguishable from a dozen other such stories . Nor is it any help that JODY LAWRENCE is a strictly one-note actress who brings nothing but a pretty face to her role as the lovely heroine . JOHN DEREK fares slightly better but it's no more than a cardboard , by-the-numbers sort of adventure done countless times in more inventive ways . This one stirs up only a moderate amount of interest and can be easily forgotten . Obviously designed to give Derek's teen-age fans a thrill since he gets solo billing over the title .
Strictly a product of British ' 60s humor . . . full of gags but still misses the mark . . .	I grant you that PETER COOK and DUDLEY MOORE are two very talented British performers but even their kind of talent needs a better than average script to overcome the tired gags conjured up to give a new spin to the Faust legend . Cook is a dim-witted short order cook who gets to realize some of his wishes ( but always with a hex on all of them ) from devil Cook , and the film is a series of jokes with Cook's best laid plans always going amok as he struggles to find and conquer his true love . DUDLEY MOORE completely nails his Stanley Moon characterization , as does PETER COOK with his sharp and snotty comments as the Devil , always up to no good . But the story concept wears thin by the time the first hour is over - - and the last forty-four minutes are simply tiresome repeats of previous vignettes . RAQUEL WELCH is amusing as a seductress in one brief scene . The later remake with BRENDAN FRASER was a lot more enjoyable . This one depends entirely on your appreciation of British humor gone amok .
Dated comedy short about a man getting hooked by a smart gal . . .	Not quite what I expected in a Pete Smith Specialty - - usually lots of slapstick . This is a straightforward look at the male / female relationship getting started at a cocktail party where the woman gets a glimpse of an eligible male she sees as a security catch . From then on , everything she does is calculated to turn him on - - even down to assuming a quiet , prim personality , a serious girl who never drinks or smokes . In no time at all , they're dating and she gets him to meet her parents - - both of whom lack the polish she's sure her mate expects . But she turns it into a successful date and before you know it , a couple of more tricks and he's proposing . Falls short of being really funny but is a pleasant enough diversion , even if the material is very dated .
Unconventional little cartoon strictly a product of the rebellious ' 60s . . .	Whatever kids are supposed to glean from this unconventional way of saying " be yourself , " it's liable to be over their heads in delivering any sort of message . The appeal seems targeted for the ' 60 rebels who were activists on college campuses . Nice modern animation , some bright colors , an abstract look - - and an ultra-silly storyline make this one of Chuck Jones ' lesser cartoons of the era . Whatever satire existed in the original work has been made senseless by this cartoon . Viewed as the way nature has been disturbed by the invasion of man's industrial society , some adults may approve of it . Not my idea of a truly entertaining cartoon for all ages .
Heavy-handed explanations don't help this Philo Vance yarn . . .	PAUL LUKAS stars as Philo Vance in this trifle designed to entertain audiences with an intriguing murder mystery laced with comedy . The comedy is just so-so and the mystery is weighed down by some heavy-handed explanations involving " heavy water " , a most curious plot device and one that Agatha Christie mercifully never thought of as a poison . ALISON SKIPWORTH is a wealthy eccentric woman whose murder prompts the arrival of Philo Vance on the scene . ISABEL JEWELL overacts in her usual style as the woman's daughter , while ROSALIND RUSSELL does considerably better as another household relative . LEO G . CARROLL handles his butler role efficiently and LOUISE FAZENDA is just slightly annoying as an eaves-dropping maid assigned most of the comedy relief . The mystery elements are handled in okay fashion but the use of " heavy water " as a plot device seems totally far-fetched . PAUL LUKAS does rather nicely as Philo Vance but it takes awhile to get used to him in the role often played by more debonair types . Nothing special , but passes the time pleasantly .
Errol Flynn gets a bit part and low billing in this Perry Mason mystery . . .	A dull script makes THE CASE OF THE CURIOUS BRIDE one of the lesser entries in the Perry Mason series starring WARREN WILLIAM as the famous sleuth . CLAIRE DODD makes an attractive blond Della Street , the secretary always a step ahead of her boss . This time the action centers on the mysterious death of a man called Gregory Moxley ( ERROL FLYNN ) , a character talked about but never seen until the film's last few minutes in which the mystery is wrapped up . MARGARET LINDSAY is the damsel in distress who calls upon Mason to help her get to the bottom of a mystery . What makes this Mason film " curious " , is why they didn't write the Moxley role into the script and build up Flynn's part . Instead , he appears for a fleeting few seconds in a flashback told by DONALD WOODS , or as a corpse lying on the floor covered by a white sheet . The story is never involving enough to be intriguing and the accent on humor is overplayed at times , especially with ALLEN JENKINS as Paul Drake . Mason certainly must have had more interesting cases than this one that could have been used for screen purposes . Surprisingly , it's directed by Michael Curtiz and is certainly one of his lesser efforts .
Weird little sci-fi B-film thriller is awfully executed . . . but it's hard to turn away . . .	Despite the below par performances of the leading actors and the triteness of the script , it's hard to turn away from the silly horror manipulations of THE BRAN THAT WOULDN'T DIE . It actually gets off to a good start before the pace starts to slacken and you'll find yourself guessing how it's all going to end . POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEADActually , the ending is telegraphed after a gruesome murder - - from that point on , it's easy to guess that the mad doctor will get his comeuppance too . JASON EVERS is the young doctor intent on creating his own monster when his girlfriend is decapitated during an auto accident . VIRGINIA LEITH plays the title role and seems to relish her close-ups as the bitter victim who resents having her head kept alive on a tray . Can you blame her ? It's schlock that almost passes for something Rod Serling might dream up for an extended version of " The Twilight Zone , " but with more of an edge to it . If you enjoy bad films from the ' 60s that exploited shock / horror , this one is right up your alley . It does provide a shiver or two .
A wisp of a story centering on a young boy's infatuation . . .	If beautiful photography and lovely views of rural France were enough to sustain a slight story , SECRET WORLD ( U . S . title ) would be worth recommending . JACQUELINE BISSET is at her most photogenic as the mistress of a British gentleman ( PIERRE ZIMMER ) who is also attractive to the man's son ( MARC POREL ) and a young boy who has lost his parents in a tragic car accident ( JEAN-FRANCOIS MAURIN ) . The story has the young , highly impressionable young boy mooning after the beautiful young woman and jealous of anyone else who pays her attention , particularly Olivier ( MARC POREL ) who is obviously in love with his father's mistress but finds himself rejected by her on more than one occasion . There's an enigmatic quality to the story and the way certain scenes are played , even an erotic moment - - a love scene in the woman's boudoir where we don't see whether it's father or son acting as lover . Bisset is lovely but poker-faced throughout , as though she feels that giving that face to the camera is all that's required . Most intriguing performance comes from MARC POREL as the reckless , adventuresome young son who admits to his father that he loves the woman . The boy is sensitive enough in a role that requires that quality in spades , but with him too it's largely a matter of looking photogenic for all his huge camera close-ups . The pretty photography is the film's chief asset , but it's all rather forgettable as a story of uneasy relationships under the same roof .
Tacky , tawdry and a whole lot of fun . . .	JOAN CRAWFORD was still playing babes who fall for much younger men when she did FEMALE ON THE BEACH , another one of her Miss Lonelyhearts roles where she , against her own better judgment , lets herself fall for a studly beach bum ( JEFF CHANDLER , all brawn and gleaming smile ) who invites himself into her kitchen with such familiarity that when he asks " How do you like your coffee ? " she naturally snaps back , " Alone ! " From then on , she's getting fast moves from him and a bunch of other predators who look at her as a Miss Moneybags whom they think would make a soft touch despite her tough shell . Well , she stays tough ( who wouldn't , with these piranhas trying to fleece her out of everything ? ) , and the movie goes on and on in typical Joan Crawford style , playing up the suspense as to how and when she will discover who murdered the previous occupant of her beach rental . Crawford looks swanky throughout and even dons a bathing suit to show off her still svelte figure - - and , of course , JEFF CHANDLER gives the ladies a chance to ogle his own brand of masculinity , although he's a bit overage as a boy toy . It's a ton of fun for Crawford fans , but everyone else will have a hard time swallowing the story's resolution to the mystery of who the killer is . JAN STERLING , NATALIE SCHAEFER , CHARLES EVANS , JUDITH EVELYN and CECIL KELLAWAY do very nicely in assorted supporting roles .
A so-so rip-off of " Mr . Blandings Builds His Dream House " . . .	Actually , two films from the ' 40s must have served as a guide for the writers to invent jokes around a couple who buy what they hope will be their dream house in the country , only to find that everything they touch has a way of collapsing . The films were MR . BLANDINGS BUILDS HIS DREAM HOUSE ( a sophisticated , witty comedy about all the pitfalls of country living for city dwellers ) , and GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE , in which Jack Benny and Ann Sheridan buy a ramshackle old house which , by screen magic , they finally succeed in turning into something that belongs on the cover of " House Beautiful " . And the wonderful Percy Kilbride was so hilarious in his dry monotone voice that Benny and Sheridan cracked up every time they shared a scene with him . A combination of those two flicks has been updated to reflect the Yuppie sensibilities of the ' 80s . At first , the humor here is pretty savvy and the jokes come fast and furious . But then , by the time TOM HANKS has fallen in cement and endured hundreds of pratfalls at the expense of a weak script , we've had enough . It gets to be a one-joke thing , with a couple of sub-plots thrown in as a means to divert the audience before the set-up for the next house joke that drives the film toward its conclusion . TOM HANKS and SHELLEY LONG are gifted at light comedy and , fortunately , they both have moments to shine as the young couple who put all their money into a house sold to them by MAUREEN STAPLETON . But the jokes wear thin pretty after too many pratfalls and the humor runs out of steam about mid-way through the film . Treat yourself to either MR . BLANDINGS or GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE for better takes on this sort of thing . And there's something quaint about the real estate prices mentioned in these films at a time when mansions could be bought for $20 , 000 ! !
Fast moving gangster film is a B-film with Faye Emerson in the lead . . .	FAYE EMERSON was a competent actress who never became a major star during her short career at Warner Bros . , but she was usually among the prominent supporting players in A-films . Here she's given the leading femme role as a LADY GANGSTER in what is a remake of an old Barbara Stanwyck film . FRANK WILCOX gets the male lead and is rather bland in the role of a radio commentator who wants to help Emerson beat the rap when the police arrest her in connection with a bank robbery gone wrong . Emerson has to serve a prison sentence - - and there we get a supporting cast of female prisoners including JULIE BISHOP , RUTH FORD and DOROTHY ADAMS . VIRGINIA BRISSAC ( Miss Seiffert with the hearing aid in THE SNAKE PIT ) is a prison supervisor and DOROTHY VAUGHAN is a kindly matron , among the supporting role players . Moves swiftly but is a routine B-film with a gangster element . JACKIE GLEASON has a bit role as one of the bank robbers but it's ROLAND DREW who is the chief villain among the robbers , ludicrous when he's in drag disguised as a woman to visit Emerson in jail . Forgettable little item interesting only for Emerson's performance .
All the right ingredients but what happened ? . . .	THE MORNING AFTER is one of those films that begins with an intriguing opening - - JANE FONDA wakes up in bed next to a murdered man and , because she was in an alcoholic daze , can't remember even entering the man's apartment . So far , so good . Nice hook to draw the viewer in . But as the story unwinds , it becomes clear that the writers ran out of material for a substantial story about midway through . The weaknesses are offset somewhat by the good performance of JEFF BRIDGES as a helpful policeman who agrees to help Fonda solve the who-dun-it aspect of her plight . It's all beautifully staged and photographed in a sunlit Los Angeles and worth watching for the performances alone . Fonda is at her best as the worried alcoholic who refuses to believe she could have committed the crime and Bridges provides some good chemistry as a co-star . But the ending ( with its revelation ) is a bit disappointing after all the build-up to a conclusion . RAOUL JULIA and KATHY BATES have minor roles but the weak ending is hard to dismiss . Fonda won an Oscar nomination and deserved it for creating a dimensional character in a story thin on believable characters .
Above average B-film is interesting . . . has a polished look . . .	It's a pleasure re-discovering how well made these minor B films were at MGM . This is another entry in the Dr . Gillespie series at MGM , the ones without Lew Ayres as Dr . Kildare . Instead , JAMES CRAIG is a young doctor treating a very troubled young woman ( LUCILLE BREMER ) whose guardians want her committed to an asylum for observation . Craig immediately thinks otherwise , although why he's so sure of her sanity is hard to determine . That's one of the weaknesses of the story and he's rather stubborn in his conviction . LUCILLE BREMER plays the distraught patient as though she's seen too many Bette Davis movies . She paces about and stares into the camera lens with wide-eyed terror , all in what appears to be a pale imitation of Miss Davis . She even resembles the younger Davis physically in extreme close-ups . At Blair Hospital , Keye Luke and Lioneal Barrymore are on hand for some comic relief , as is Marie Blake as the switchboard operator and Alma Krueger as a stern and knowing nurse . Reliable character actor Henry Stephenson is the girl's guardian . JAMES CRAIG is stolid and solemn as the stubborn doctor and LIONEL BARRYMORE is his usual blustery self as Dr . Gillespie , but the story's resolution is just too patly contrived for believability , including the narcosynthesis explanation . JAYNE MEADOWS makes a nice impression in one of her more wholesome roles . As a simplistic B-film , it's of more than average interest .
Unsympathetic characters in a mildly suspenseful melodrama . . .	ERIC PORTMAN finds his wife has been cheating on him and decides to commit the perfect murder by doing away with her lover ( DENNIS PRICE ) . Sound familiar ? Of course , it does . It's been done so many times before and usually more effectively . At least Portman does a commendable job in an unlikeable characterization and his wife ( GRETA GYNT ) is a sly and cunning female of the type you'd expect in this kind of crime melodrama . She's rather smitten with one of her suitors ( MAXWELL REED ) and her loyalty to him causes her downfall when she tries to outfox her husband . It's slow moving and obviously based on a stage play with most of the action confined to a few sets with lots of stage dialog . The director lets the pace lag considerably and never speeds things up for what is supposed to be a surprise ending . Anyone looking for a tense crime of passion will be disappointed . It ambles along at its own slow pace , but most viewers will want to see how it all ends . Should have been a lot more suspenseful .
Curiously flat comedy has a silly script but is still fun to watch . . .	In spite of everything that's wrong with IN PERSON , I stayed with it till the end , enjoying whatever chemistry there was between GINGER ROGERS and GEORGE BRENT in a very lightweight comedy that suffers from heavy handling and a contrived script . The story has about three places where the ending was in sight and then more material was added to draw out further plot complications . You'll see what I mean if you watch the movie . Rogers plays a pampered movie star who takes a swift trip to the country to get away from it all , with the help of GEORGE BRENT , who at first thinks she's the plain Jane girl he bumps into in a city elevator . She's wearing a ridiculous disguise and a hat with a veil that completely covers her face . Underneath the veil we discover she's wearing a buck teeth disguise with a black wig and glasses . The plot has her doctors advising her to wear a disguise if she's afraid of being mobbed by fans . Naturally , once she takes off her disguise it's only a matter of time before Brent will be attracted to her . The screwball elements get even sillier as the plot thickens and the material wears thin long before the film is over . Worthwhile only for Ginger's fans , who at least get to see her sing and dance in a couple of sequences - - although none of the musical moments compare to anything she did with Astaire . In fact , they're staged rather clumsily and the songs are hardly what you'd call memorable . As a compensation , George Brent is a bit livelier than usual in a romantic comedy role . Summing up : A misfire of a screwball comedy with poor Alan Mobray getting the worst of the deal .
It's a film as innocuous as its title . . .	Certainly this has to be ranked as one of the most forgettable films GREER GARSON and ROBERT MITCHUM ever participated in , a film that went from bad to worse once it was handed over from one director to another at least three times . In the end , nobody wanted to take credit for it and it's easy to see why there is no " Directed by " credit on the screen . It's a mess . Not only did the directors quit , but ROBERT MONTGOMERY began filming in the Richard Hart role until he dropped out and was replaced . The only redeeming feature of the film is the handsome seaside setting and house that Garson lives in , until a stranger comes along ( RICHARD HART ) to inform her that her husband ( MITCHUM ) is dead and that he was Mitch's best friend during World War II . Garson is soon offering Hart shelter and their relationship seems to be heading toward a romantic involvement when the very much alive Mitchum returns to town , seeking to resume his former life . Actually , these are the ingredients for a potentially strong enough story - - so one has to wonder why the film turned out so disastrously . Mitchum was reportedly annoyed with Garson when she required , according to him , " 125 takes to say ' No ' . " ( Knowing Mitchum , this could have been a slight exaggeration ! ! ) Nevertheless , he often spoke disparagingly of the whole project . Can't recommend this one unless you are a staunch Greer Garson fan and won't mind the punishment .
Hollow historical romance buried in pop culture clichés . . .	Critics suggested that Frank Yerby must have fashioned his THE FOXES OF HARROW on the sort of epic best-sellers enormously popular when GONE WITH THE WIND and ANTHONY ADVERSE were taking the public by storm . But Fox apparently had less faith in this turgid screenplay and gave it a more modest B & W budget , apparently investing all their time in producing FOREVER AMBER in lavish Technicolor . It was a wise decision not to spend too much on this supposed blockbuster of a movie . It's amusing to note that when it opened in New York at the Roxy theater and was mercilessly panned by Bosley Crowther for being adrift in a sea of clichés , MILTON BERLE was the featured attraction of the stage show that accompanied the film . REX HARRISON is the strong-willed tyrant who breaks up his marriage in order to win fame and wealth in New Orleans of 1820 . The lumbering script is as dull as his character . MAUREEN O'HARA plays her usual feisty heroine , " proud and beautiful " as described by RICHARD HAYDYN , the type of cardboard beauty seen on the covers of risqué bodice rippers . She's a frozen delight in the role . The long and very uninvolving story has them bickering like a less colorful gambler and scoundrel playing Rhett to Maureen's bold Scarlett , with none of the necessary plot ingredients necessary to make this more than a stale and very tall tale full of dull dialog and long stretches of boredom . Trivia note : If you look carefully , some of the interior sets look like holdovers from FOREVER AMBER .
Joan Fontaine struggles with screwball comedy . . .	MAID'S NIGHT OUT is an absurd little screwball comedy which demonstrates , in painful fashion , why JOAN FONTAINE was relegated to programmers during her early career at RKO . As in most of her other " comic " turns , she's not served well by a script that would be a hurdle for an accomplished comedienne like Constance Bennett , an actress Fontaine admired greatly . How anyone would mistake Fontaine for a domestic is a pill hard to swallow - - and the ensuing plot twists are equally hard to deal with , even in a screwball comedy . The scene with the milk bottles being tossed off the truck is just too much . JOAN FONTAINE and ALLAN LANE do the best they can with a tiresome script that has her behaving like a spoiled brat for most of the running time , which is mercifully brief . HEDDA HOPPER is her foolish mother and there's a standout performance by BILLY GILBERT as a fish peddler ( at a time when a pound of fish was 18 cents ! ) . Not an essential Joan Fontaine film , even though TCM features it whenever celebrating her birthday . She looks lovely and she and Allan Lane make a charming couple but it's a strained performance - - especially on that milk truck with her floundering around in discomfort as the police chase begins .
Crawford in above average Cinderella story . . . from rags to riches . . .	JOAN CRAWFORD plays a tenement girl with a Park Avenue accent no matter how much she has to sweat in a factory for a living . She hates her tenement environment so much that she's willing to run off with boyfriend ALAN CURTIS at the drop of a hat . Of course , what seemed like a good idea changes drastically once she meets wealthy SPENCER TRACY and realizes what her life could be as " a lady " . LEO GORCEY is a howl as her nasty kid brother . That's the main thrust of MANNEQUIN - - a sort of " money can't buy happiness " theme that is played out in typical ' 30s style with Joan Crawford giving her fans a rags to riches story tailored to please depression weary audiences . Despite the fact that Crawford seems too cultured to be playing a girl from the city flats , she's convincing enough as the newly married woman who croons a song to Curtis on the dance floor , a little something called " Always and Always " . Curtis has the role of a thankless heel and plays it to the hilt . Tracy is so enamored with " the awfully sweet kid " that you know the Curtis / Crawford marriage is headed for the rocks . Thanks to the natural performances of Tracy and Crawford , it all works better than it sounds on paper - - due also to Frank Borzage's fine direction and ELIZABETH RISDON's performance as Crawford's hard-working mother who doesn't want her daughter to give up her dream . Whether slumming or enjoying the posh life among the idle rich , Crawford never loses her poise and gets to toss off some smart lines . No matter how poor she's supposed to be , her clothes never look like they came off thrift shop racks . She photographs attractively with a softer look than her later image would have , so this is a real treat for Crawford fans . Especially when she becomes a " mannequin " at a posh fashion show , attired in some of Adrian's most outrageous gowns . The good chemistry with SPENCER TRACY helps a lot . " It all started when you slugged me , " says Tracy , proposing marriage to her . Will she or won't she find true happiness with a rich man ? Hint : It ends with another slug . Summing up : Fun for true Crawford fans , but others may find it's all a little too artificial for comfort .
Even a Chaplin short can run too long . . .	With only some thin material to support a running time of 40 minutes , A DOG'S LIFE is hardly one of Chaplin's best , but there are a couple of inventive sequences , as always , in any Chaplin film . Here he's the Little Tramp , sleeping on the streets - - just like a nearby mongrel dog - - and when he's caught stealing food through a picket fence , a wise cop is on his trail . Sight gags begin right at the start , first when he eludes the policeman and then when he applies for a job opening at a brewery . He's outsmarted by all the other scrappy applicants and gets pushed off his seat a number of times by the more boisterous members who dash to the employment window before him . He befriends the mongrel dog , meets a girl at a saloon / restaurant dive , has to deal with thieves who've stolen a wealthy man's wallet , and ends up dreaming of a better life with his girlfriend and the little mutt . EDNA PURVIANCE , his favorite leading lady , is funny in her flirtatious moment with Chaplin . Not up to the highest standards he would achieve later , it's watchable but good for only a few chuckles with The Little Tramp and the dog being the only really viable characters . Even shorts can run too long .
B-picture quality from Raoul Walsh and his stock company cast . . .	Everything about MANPOWER is highly improbable , including the casting of EDWARD G . ROBINSON as a lineman in love with the alluring clip-joint hostess MARLENE DIETRICH and the three-way romance that includes GEORGE RAFT as a jealous blue collar onlooker who warns Robinson about the pitfalls of marrying Dietrich . Raoul Walsh directs it in his customary boisterous style , letting ALAN HALE , FRANK McHUGH , WARD BOND and BARTON MacLANE overdo the rowdy blue collar supporting roles . The comic relief offered by Hale and McHugh is below par this time and becomes tiresome long before the tale reaches a climactic storm scene . Fans of the star trio will probably overlook these faults and find the film passable viewing , but it's nothing special and easily forgotten . EVE ARDEN gets to sling some one-liners in the kind of role she always played with verve and skill . Linemen working on electrical wires at the height of a severe thunderstorm is stretching things a bit for the melodramatic climax .
Bleak and brooding story of a fugitive priest . . .	It's easy to see why THE FUGITIVE was a critical and commercial box-office failure . For some reason , none of Graham Greene's novels transfer well to the screen . The somber stories are all too melodramatic and heavy-handed , and this is no exception . Furthermore , in the role of the fugitive priest south of the border , HENRY FONDA looks decidedly uncomfortable throughout . This time John Ford struck out . The story is drab , downbeat and depressing - - and both HENRY FONDA and DOLORES del RIO seem to be acting for the camera in a style that approaches silent screen acting in the worst possible way - - especially during the opening scene . Del Rio is so artificial , she seems to be posing dramatically for every close-up . Even PEDRO ARMENDARIZ overdoes the villainous swagger and sneer and J . CARROL NAISH overacts in the role of an informant . Between acting styles and the extravagant use of symbolism , this is a film of many flaws , most of them in the direction and heavy-handed script . A critical failure at the time , it is in no way the masterpiece some are calling it among the user comments here . No Ford film would be complete without WARD BOND turning up as " El Gringo " . At least he gives the film a touch of grim realism . The busy background score by Richard Hageman is no help at all and seems more appropriate for the score of a silent film .
Limp melodrama crashes with a thud . . .	Next to TWO WEEKS IN ANOTHER TOWN , THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL looks like an all-around masterpiece of subtle drama . Both take a cynical look at the behind-the-scenes backstabbing in Hollywood . The story gets off to a slow start and then continues to move at a snail's pace , especially through the early scenes where we're introduced to characters like EDWARD G . ROBINSON and his shrewish wife CLAIRE TREVOR . Robinson seems to be playing a thinly disguised version of Darryl F . Zanuck and Trevor seems to think she has to overdo the tirades in scene after scene so she can win another supporting Oscar like the one she snared for KEY LARGO . The school of overacting seems to be rampant here . Irwin Shaw was obviously cynical about his own treatment by the Hollywood studios and has concocted a melodrama that is even more bitter about studio politics than THE BIG KNIFE or THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL . It's strange that Vincente Minnelli would be the director chosen to bring this story to life , but suffice it to say that it's not one of his best directorial achievements . KIRK DOUGLAS does a decent job in the central role but most of the performances are absurdly over-the-top in a film wherein the script itself is the main problem . Sorry , can't work up any enthusiasm for this one .
Full of sound and fury signifying nothing . . . pulp trash typical of Robbins . . .	Except for the color cinematography of Claude Renoir , this sprawling story of a selfish playboy son of a South American diplomat who has been murdered , is nothing more than a revenge story told on a scale that would be impressive if the story was worthy of being treated as an epic . There are huge crowd scenes , many explosions , awkward love scenes , terrible dialog and just a few moments where you can see an occasional moment of truth . All of the actors are pretty well wasted and only occasionally is there a flash of good acting . The hero is played by BEKIM FEHMIU , a lean and muscular leading man who has only one expression no matter what the circumstances . His wooden performance seems to have affected everyone else in the cast , with the possible exception of OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND and JOHN IRELAND who at least acquit themselves without looking foolish . There's also a charming performance from LEIGH TAYLOR-YOUNG , but CANDICE BERGEN , ROSSANO BRAZZI , FERNANDO REY , ERNEST BORGNINE , ANNA MOFFO and others do nothing that raises the level of the film to anything more than pulp trash - - which , considering that it came from a Harold Robbins novel , is all that it could ever hope to be . The striking photography cannot be praised too highly , but everything else crumbles under the heavy-handed direction of Lewis Gilbert . He never manages to make any of the characters appealing enough to really care about . Summing up : At your own risk .
Silly comedy trifle about a talking dog . . .	I always enjoyed WALTER ABEL , one of the most likable character actors of the ' 40s , but THE FABULOUS JOE gives him star billing in a minor feature that attempts to be a witty screwball comedy . It fails . The jokes are thin , the premise is ridiculous and actor Abel seems to know his material is far beneath him . Only SHELDON LEONARD as a tough guy enamored of Marie Wilson , lends any true comic flair to the proceedings . Miss Wilson reads her lines like a girl in her first high school play with a flat effect , showcasing her shapely figure but little else . The story involves a henpecked man who gains courage from a drink called a " Mystery Gardenia " and thereafter has conversations with his dog , who gets him into all kinds of trouble - - slapstick stuff involving Wilson and his wife's fits of jealousy . DONALD MEEK and DONALD MacBRIDE have standard supporting roles and two uncredited bit roles are filled by TOMMY NOONAN ( as an elevator boy ) and ELLEN CORBY . But the camera is on ABEL all the time . Summing up : A foolish comedy that strains for laughs , suitable only as the second half of a double feature in the ' 40s .
Heavy going . . . tedious love affair against war background . . .	The first disadvantage of THE END OF THE AFFAIR is that the star chemistry between DEBORAH KERR and VAN JOHNSON is not there . Each does a respectable job as two people burdened under the strain of a doomed love affair , but the motivations are murky , the talk is endless and the resolution seems more like a cop-out than anything else . The second disadvantage is that this is from a novel by Graham Greene , a writer whose works don't seem to translate well to the screen - - too intellectual , too complex and too pseudo-religious for their own good , with the exception of THE THIRD MAN . And last but not least , the story itself is dull - - the " she loves me , she loves me not " theme goes back and forth between Kerr and Johnson with no meeting of the minds to bring them together . Finally , it becomes tiresome to see both of them wallowing in self-pity because their love cannot be consummated . PETER CUSHING , as the mild-mannered husband who is clueless about his wife's " problems " is effective and natural enough in the sort of low-key performance one doesn't expect from him . JOHN MILLS does nicely as the detective hired by Johnson to spy on Kerr , adding a bit of much needed humor to the rather dour storyline . Downbeat romance with mismatched stars in the leading roles , it never amounts to much . Someone like DIRK BOGARDE might have been able to be create a more believable portrait than Johnson does and at least provide the missing chemistry with Kerr . No matter , it's a tiresome tale of mutual distrust that kills any chance of a relationship .
Beware of obsessive love seems to be the only message . . .	Actually LOST AND DELIRIOUS is an artfully photographed film that explores the relationships between boarding school girls , especially the two young girls at the heart of this story ( Paulie , played by PIPER PERABO and Tori , JESSICA PARE ) . The two girls tend to look so much alike that it seems to be a casting error unless this was intentional . The newcomer to the school is Mary ( MISCHA BARTON ) , who soon learns that her roommates are also lovers and not above making love in her presence without any pretenses . She quietly accepts the notion that " it seemed alright " and doesn't put up any protests . Her character actually becomes quite annoying later in the film , when she willfully accepts the free spirited ideas of Paulie and goes along with her decision to fight a duel with a boy over the girl she's infatuated with , Tori . In fact , the whole film is really the story of girls making all the wrong decisions or choices - - and the sad consequences . The story is given a lilting musical background score , excellent photography and good direction , but the script really has no message to offer except that it's dangerous to become involved too deeply with a strong-willed girl who is unwilling to break off a relationship . At no cost , does Paulie intend to let her friend off the hook when she decides the relationship has to end . She goes to such extremes in many unpleasant and awkward situations that the story becomes irritating even before the final choice is made . Summing up : Artistically interesting but very flawed film dealing with a doomed relationship between two not very sensible young women .
Overdone screwball comedy is painful to contemplate . . .	I can't believe all of these rave comments on what is essentially a screwball comedy that lacks the magic of other such items made during the ' 30s . This one is decidedly less successful than OUR MAN GODFREY or HARD TO GET ( Dick Powell / Olivia de Havilland ) or even FOUR'S A CROWD . Once again , it takes potshots at the rich - - specifically BILLIE BURKE who is head of a loony household . She's a wealthy woman who hires hobos or ex-cons to run her estate , never listening long enough to anyone who might have described their situation - - but then , there would be no story . Such is the case with BRIAN AHERNE who shows up at her doorstep to report a car accident but is soon swept into the household and hired as a chauffeur . CONSTANCE BENNETT is Burke's lovely daughter so we know where this plot device is going . BONITA GRANVILLE has another one of her bratty roles to play as she torments butler ALAN MOBRAY . She specialized in these roles but becomes irritating pretty fast . The silliness of the whole story goes into overdrive , milking every situation for whatever laughs can be derived from such exaggerated screwball material . By the time it's over , you're either having a ball at the expense of this loony family or judging the film to be excessively over baked nonsense that hardly stands up to close inspection . You know which side I'm on . Summing up : Predictable screwball mess , it wastes the talents of a fine cast .
An oddity among Esther Williams ' films features wonderful Copland piano suite . . .	If you can accept the notion that ESTHER WILLIAMS and RICARDO MONTALBAN ( his American film debut ) are twins and that Esther could substitute for him in the bull ring - - well , then you can sit back and enjoy a few of the other perks of FIESTA . It's more a drama than a musical , but the dance numbers are what give it whatever zest it has as entertainment . It's primarily a showcase for the talented Ricardo , seen here as a man who would rather be a composer of serious music than a bullfighter . He even gets to play his " Fantasia Mexicana " ( actually Aaron Copland's " El Salon Mexico " ) in an exciting piano arrangement that has Montalban looking as though he's actually executing the piece . And colorful too is his dance number with CYD CHARISSE , who was then a rising young star on the MGM lot and got to do some specialty dance numbers in a variety of musical films . Frankly , Esther became a much better actress in later films . FIESTA is actually one of her weakest dramatic performances and fans only get to see her take a dip in a pool once , and briefly . Her flat reading of most lines does little to advance the notion that she was a star , even when she wasn't wet . Despite all the trimmings , it's just not on the level with other MGM musical dramas of the era and looks and plays more like a programmer than anything else . But , oh that music !
Wacky domestic comedy is early vehicle for William Holden . . .	Living within a budget just about sums up the entire plot line of this feeble little domestic comedy , MEET THE STEWARTS , which serves to show WILLIAM HOLDEN and FRANCES DEE as a squabbling young couple who dive into marriage without enough money to finance her extravagant ways . Dee is pretty but plays a rather flighty housewife , sweet but a bit unreasonable in some of her temperamental outbursts . Holden has the sort of " Smilin ' Jim " roles he came to detest in time , but does an acceptable job that reveals an early flair for comedy . There's strong support from a cast that includes ANNE REVERE , GRANT WITHERS and ANNE GILLIS , but a very unfunny role for MARGARET HAMILTON as an inept maid . Summing up : Never rises above being more than a formula programmer that gives Holden and Dee a chance to make an early impression .
You have to be a Margaret Sullavan fan to appreciate this one . . .	Here's a film that did succeed as a charming comedy when it first opened at Radio City Music Hall back in 1935 , based on a play by Molnar that had been a very successful stage comedy . And given the fact that MGM produced it with a handsome cast and gave it a director like William Wyler , it ought to be something to shout about . Not so . MARGARET SULLAVAN , first of all , is an acquired taste . She's not a conventional Hollywood face by any means - - in fact , she's really a drab little wren - - but with MGM's make-up department and some softly appealing close-ups , she makes a presentable leading lady . It's her voice and mannerisms that you have to get used to - - much the way Katharine Hepburn took the country by storm and then was declared " box-office poison " when she became too mannered . The story is a trifle with a naive girl re-arranging the lives of three men she tries to help - - but caught up in a web of deception . The well meaning girl has a waiter , a lawyer and a rich magnate all in a stew once she starts her fibs . This was re-made in the ' 40s as a Deanna Durbin film with music , of course , and maybe that's what helped I'LL BE YOURS become a more sprightly version of the tale . This is strictly for fans of Margaret Sullavan as the story and situations are a bit too contrived for comfort . HERBERT MARSHALL as the lawyer , REGINALD OWEN as the waiter and FRANK MORGAN as the millionaire all do well enough but no one can overcome the fanciful script that is more foolish than funny .
Limp comedy lacks whatever luster it had as a Broadway play . . .	If the pleasure of watching GINGER ROGERS , DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS , JR . and LEE BOWMAN in their prime is enough for you , you won't mind watching this feeble little comedy about a vacationing girl in a typical girl meets boy , girl loses boy , girl wins boy kind of affair . And whatever laughs come along are few and far between , as someone else suggested , and the gags aren't fresh enough to sustain much interest . The backgammon scene becomes a bore , as does the party scene with " Heigh Ho " being sung non-stop in inebriated fashion . Strictly a small time trifle , hardly worth bothering about . No one is seen to their advantage except for the three photogenic leads in a cast that includes EVE ARDEN ( wasted ) , LUCILLE BALL ( wasted ) , JACK Carson ( wasted ) , DONALD COOK and GRADY SUTTON , with an interesting debut of comedian RED SKELTON , billed as Richard ( Red ) Skelton ) who demonstrates his skill with a series of pratfalls . He does more with his small role than anyone else is able to muster . The original play was a satire about Jewish vacationers in the Catskills but was revamped as a vehicle for Ginger Rogers with all the Jewish jokes removed . What's left is a weak comedy with nowhere to go . Summing up : The title is a misnomer . It's hardly worth anyone's time but it's pleasing to note that LEE BOWMAN's reaction shots reveal a flair for comedy never fully realized throughout his film career .
Moderately interesting look at Niagara Falls . . .	I wish I could rate these James FitzPatrick Travelogs higher than I do , but frankly they're really as dull as can be . These shorts that he produced have all the luster of the sort of documentaries we had to watch in the school auditorium when I was a kid . Dry , humorless , dull . The only redeeming thing here are the Falls themselves . They look splendid , whether shown in a panoramic way or whether just used as background for sights in the park and elsewhere . Indeed they are a great natural wonder and it's understandable that the parks in 1943 were receiving two million visitors per year . We're shown hotel restaurants that give patrons at outdoor tables a view of both sides of the falls . We get a brief look at Ft . George , the Queenstown Heights Memorial to a famous general and the fabled Maid of the Mist that gives tourists a spectacular cruise along the gentler waters of the river . Spectacular falls , dull documentary .
Capra running on empty . . . except for a song . . .	When the best thing about a BING CROSBY / JANE WYMAN film is a song called " In the Cool , Cool , Cool of the Evening " , you know you're in trouble . What is supposed to be harmless fluff is pretty empty fluff at that . And why anyone is surprised that Jane Wyman can carry a tune with the best of them , mystifies me . Miss Wyman made her debut playing dizzy chorus girls who usually tossed off a song and dance number before the first reel was over , in a number of films , mainly at Warner Bros . And later on , after she became a big star , she still contributed nicely to the Cole Porter bio , NIGHT AND DAY . Anyway , here she has one of her brisk , no nonsense roles as a gal who's tired of waiting around for her globe trotting boyfriend ( Crosby ) to take her down the aisle , so she's engaged to FRANCHOT TONE . But Crosby manages to use all of his wiles to coax her back , even if it includes some shenanigans involving ALEXIS SMITH ( of all people ) , who gives one of her best comedic roles all the spirit it deserves . But when all is said and done , HERE COMES THE GROOM seems sub-standard and a bit foolish , unworthy of talents like Crosby and Wyman . Their best moment comes when they croon the title tune while choreographed waltzing around a huge office , but it's not enough to keep the rest of the story from floundering amid too many missed opportunities . Summing up : Capra running on empty can be tiresome .
A dull teen role for Margaret O'Brien after her MGM days were over . . .	I've never been a big admirer of MARGARET O'BRIEN , so it should come as no surprise that I disliked this dull teen-age story about a budding romance at summer camp ( based actually on a Herman Wouk novel about a Jewish boy growing up in New York City ) - - but even I have to admit that there was very little she could do to overcome such a weak script . She was at the so-called " awkward age " for this outing at Columbia and it shows . Nor does the rest of the cast do anything to lift the picture from the ordinary . ELINOR DONOHUE is unpleasant as her rival at camp and ANN DORAN does her usual competent job as Margaret's mother , but nothing really helps although LLOYD CORRIGAN lends some sturdy support . It's a trite and banal script and it's a shame that studios couldn't find better material for child stars once they reached that certain age . Best to skip this one , unless you're a real O'Brien fan .
Forgettable except for one chilling scene . . .	TORN CURTAIN has to be on the lowest rung of the ladder when judging Hitchcock films . How it manages to be such a dull espionage tale with stars like PAUL NEWMAN and JULIE ANDREWS in the leads , is practically incomprehensible . But I suppose most of the trouble has to be blamed on the script . Hitchcock himself gave an interview shortly before the film was released stating that it was awfully hard these days to find a really good scriptwriter . He must have had his latest upcoming film in mind . Newman is a scientist on a spy mission in East Germany and has to pretend to be a defector in order to find out any information . Julie is along for company and soon gets just as involved in the situation as he is . When they're about to be " discovered " , they have to flee and therein lies the rest of the plot . If the proceedings had been done with any sort of wit or originality , this might have been a fun film to watch . Neither star shows a bit of chemistry in their relationship . As it is , there's only one chilling scene set in a farmhouse where Newman and a farm woman have to kill a German scientist who knows too much about them and their mission . How they struggle to kill the man , who fights for his life with a great deal of resilience ( he's harder to kill than Rasputin ) , makes for the most Hitchcock-like suspense in the whole film . Not worthwhile unless you're an avid fan who must see anything Newman or Andrews does . Only LILA KEDROVA , in an amusing minor role that has little to do with the main plot , manages to stir any interest briefly .
Bill Robinson becomes owner of a nightclub . . .	At a time when his presence in A-films was not quite established , BILL ROBINSON appeared in this short subject which I found moderately interesting . I was waiting for his tap dancing sequence and it was a good one , but the story is a trifle about him gambling the owner in a crap game and getting the chance to strut his stuff . It took too much time to get to his dancing . Unfortunately , it's all very dated , especially when it gets to the actual vaudeville routines depicted in the show . The singing style is strictly from the ' 30s , the lead singer does a song called " Love Lost Out " sounding very tinny in her high soprano register , and the dancers look as though they're badly in need of a good choreographer . Where is Busby Berkeley when you need him ? Robinson , however , does his own thing with his usual skill - - but is stuck in a short subject that cries for more originality in the script department . His tapping to " Swanee River " is a delight but after that the routine goes into less successful moments and ends with a wedding bells song that closes the short with a thud . I can't recommend this with much enthusiasm .
Orphan girl is lonely at the orphanage . . .	Mawkish , sentimental nonsense about a little orphan girl ( SHARON MacMANUS ) , who for some strange reason doesn't want a married couple to know that she does indeed want to be adopted by them . Sharon is the matchstick thin little girl with the big sad eyes who danced with Gene Kelly in a famous scene from of " Anchors Aweigh . " Here she's given a Margaret O'Brien type of role with a poor script and dull direction . She's conflicted about whether to stay in the orphanage or return to the arms of a young couple who want to adopt her . Despite all their assurances that they love her , she returns to the orphanage only to find that she really does love and miss them . That's about it . Somewhere in there is a little white lie - - but the story is simply an excuse for a tearful reunion with the girl embracing both parents as snow falls around the Christmas holidays . A trifle easily forgotten .
Harmless fluff but the plot is old hat . . .	Any movie that gives me a chance to watch VERA-ELLEN dance is worth giving it a view , in my opinion - - so I watched this little musical comedy pairing her with charming David NIVEN . It's the old mistaken identity theme played to the hilt by a cast that includes CESAR ROMERO as a harried musical producer with financial woes . Unfortunately , a clumsily staged opening Scottish number gets the musical off to a bad start with a distinct lack of charm and bad staging . The backers don't seem too enthusiastic about giving Romero a chance to go on with his show - - and it's understandable . " Half of you dance as if you're flat footed , " he tells the dancers . When his star walks out , he has no other choice but to turn to VERA-ELLEN . . . get the picture ? Especially after rumors link her with a millionaire in Scotland ( David NIVEN ) who might provide the right financial backing for Romero's show . The story is obviously a showcase for VERA-ELLEN and on that level it's a bit of a disappointment . She's pert , pretty and knows how to dance . But poor David NIVEN , as the millionaire , has to wait a good half-hour before he even makes an appearance . He ambles through his role with professional ease , but it's a trifle and he knows it . Unfortunately , the concentration on a backstage plot doesn't pay off . It's tiresome stuff and the musical numbers are banal , none of the songs making a lasting impression . Given that it's played as a musical comedy , perhaps that's why the color is a little more garish than usual for a British film . Summing up : At your own risk . Not a bit of inspiration in any of Vera-Ellen's musical numbers .
Ronald Colman and the age factor . . .	I can't think of any other actor from the Golden Age of films who was miscast as many times as he was because of the age factor . So it was with RONALD COLMAN who was already forty by the time he played the idealistic young doctor of ARROWSMITH opposite stage star HELEN HAYES . To his credit , he was still playing romantic leads in the ' 40s ( RANDOM HARVEST ) when he was in his fifties - - and somehow , audiences accepted him regardless of what I call " the age factor " . Here , in ARROWSMITH , it's painfully obvious that he was not the best choice for this title role in a trimmed down version of a Sinclair Lewis novel . Surprisingly , the screenplay is by Sidney Howard , who had no trouble adapting Margaret Mitchell's lengthy GONE WITH THE WIND to the screen , but here seems to be obligated to cut out huge sections of the book to get to the main plot line in a hurry . Possibly , because films in 1931 did not run three hours and forty-five minutes . Whatever , the result is a disjointed screenplay that condenses the story in a way that makes motivations and events incoherent at times . Arrowsmith begins his practice as a rather clumsy country doctor in farm country who develops an interest in serum when a neighbor's cattle become infected . When his serum is a success the doctor and his young wife move to New York where he's to work at a big clinic . Soon he neglects his wife while he buries himself in his work to eradicate bacteria . When an outbreak of bubonic plague breaks out - - well , you can see where the plot is going . RONALD COLMAN is earnest and already quite distinguished looking as young Arrowsmith and HELEN HAYES suffers nobly as his neglected wife , infected herself through a careless action by her doctor husband . And toward the end of the story , we get a glimpse of the young and seductive MYRNA LOY in a role that is either underwritten or underwent extensive cuts . Cuts seem obvious in the abrupt ending too . Arrowsmith's experiments in the West Indies bring a conclusion to the story . But sad to say , the film is a relic in almost every sense of the word . Hard to picture John Ford at the helm of this project - - even though there is a brief glimpse of Ward Bond ( one of his favorite players ) in an early scene . Summing up : Nothing deep to say about medicine nor does it work as the story of a dedicated doctor who wants to save lives during an epidemic . And it's certainly not Ronald Colman at his best .
Beautiful to look at but shallow all the way . . .	If you could cite gorgeous cinematography as the saving grace of a movie , this would be the one to choose . Obviously , director ROBERT REDFORD meant this to be a tribute to the glories of the environment , being the radical conservationist that he's turned out to be . And as such , it does succeed - - for it's a beautiful film to look at . But by the time the end credits roll , you realize that what there is of a story is so vague in outline , so weak in imparting any truths , so muddled in whatever message was intended , that it's been a waste of a couple of hours of your life . CRAIG SHEFFER is merely bland as the older brother who secretly envies the free-wheeling , laid back lifestyle of his fly-fishing brother , BRAD PITT . Pitt crumbles under the conventions of having a strict religious upbringing from his father TOM SKERRITT . During the course of the story , the two brothers are at odds over many things and have the usual fights and squabbles . By the end , one brother finds the right path while the other ends his life in misery . That's about it for the plot outline . It's never clear , though , what the message is that Redford is trying to get across . The film's only strength is the picture postcard views of Montana , impressively photographed . The scenery serves as a nice background for a very weak drama that really goes nowhere and ends up being a bore rather than capturing us with an intriguing storyline .
Nothing subtle about this comedy / mystery . . . but it's not too bad . . .	ADELE JERGENS is a pampered movie star who gets a crate delivery that turns out to have a body inside it - - a studio costume designer she had recently argued with . She tries to persuade newspaper man GEORGE BRENT not to tell police right away , but he does and the plot gets a little more absurd after that , with JOAN BLONDELL as another newspaper reporter looking for a scoop . The comedy aspect is anything but subtle as Blondell and Brent seem to be trying to upstage each other for laughs as the story strives for a good blend of mystery and mirth . Since it becomes obvious early on that most of the comic elements are pretty stale , you have to pin your hopes that the mystery element will be handled a lot better . LESLIE BROOKS is attractive as a studio secretary with she and ADELE JERGENS providing the glamor appeal as stunning blondes . As fumbling reporters turning sleuth to solve the case , Blondell and Brent try hard but are less than amusing as they look for leads . The plot thickens with the murder of a studio publicity director , but the accent still remains on comedy until the merry mix-up is solved after Brent has several run-ins with the killer . Not too bad as these programmers go , with the final ten minutes filling in a lot of background info that's kept " in the dark " for most of the running time . Brent proves his comedy flair needed some fine tuning but Blondell is one step ahead of him in that department . GRANT WITHERS makes a good red herring in a minor role .
Typical ' 30s-style band leader Vitaphone short from Warner Bros . . .	Just about every popular band during the ' 30s and ' 40s had their own short subject and this one is dedicated to Woody Herman and his Orchestra . He and his band give the swing treatment to a number of oldies , beginning with " Carolina in the Morning " which he sings , a tricky dance number with two sisters doing " Two Little Girls In One " as a mirror act , his rendition of " You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby " ( which Dick Powell crooned to Olivia de Havilland in " Hard to Get " ) , and two more swing renditions of " Jail House Blues " and " Hello Central . " Summing up : Not much style to praise here . It's a simple band act before an audience that looks as though it were dressed up for a concert at Lincoln Center . Strictly for curious interest in the ' 30s band era , which looks mighty dated in this particular outing .
A humorous take on our superstitions . . .	This short subject from the ' 50s takes a look at our superstitious nature and displays a number of them for our amusement . Among the many : Ouiji boards , crystal ball , hand palm reading , sediment teacup , wizards instead of doctors , spilling salt over left shoulder , walking under a ladder , Friday the 13th , the divining rod , and step on a crack . Interesting to see how Black Magic still has a grip on modern Americans . This is the sort of short that accompanied many a feature film throughout the ' 30s to the ' 50s and , while the subject matter is fascinating enough , it fails to really deliver the goods in illustrating all of these myths . Passes the time but hardly a worthwhile treat .
TNT premiere showing of " Shattered " . . .	The producers of BUTTERFLY ON A WHEEL ( a / k / a SHATTERED in U . S . ) , didn't have enough faith in their project to seek widespread theatrical distribution of the finished film - - even though it had GERARD BUTLER fresh from his box-office triumph in " 300 " . Instead , they went a more direct route - - directly to TV on TNT , which seems more like a last resort . Once again , a Gerard Butler film with limited distribution even though co-starred with PIERCE BROSNAN and MARIA BELLO . Seeing it on TNT , it's understandable that the film had some problems in connecting with a larger audience . Brosnan's villain is below par for the actor and Butler has done better work elsewhere although he gives all his energy to the role of a distraught husband . The plot is an elaborate cat-and-mouse game that Brosnan plays with the unlucky couple , Butler and Bello . While it does generate a certain amount of suspense , Brosnan's character remains an enigma for almost the whole story . Never once do we get a hint of why he's going to such extremes to torture the couple by demanding that they perform tasks at his bidding . A grungy looking Brosnan makes the villain a very unappetizing psychotic and we're never quite sure about Butler either , an ad agency man who gradually loses his swaggering overconfident manner . Without giving away more of the plot ( except to say that there is a mildly interesting twist toward the end followed by a double twist ) , the whole thing plays more like a made-for-TV movie than an actual film because none of the characters are more than one-dimensional despite the good acting . And the final scene between Butler and Bello is totally unbelievable as to motivation . Summing up : Basically tricky and shallow at the core .
Definitely not one of Shirley's best . . . below average vehicle . . .	There is such a lackluster quality about JUST AROUND THE CORNER - - everything from script to performances to the songs - - is below average . And Shirley is not quite as cute as the story wants her to be - - clearly , she is starting to develop into a chubby preteen youngster with just a modicum of talent left over from her earlier films as a tot . Only a couple of the songs are pleasant enough to be worth mentioning - - " A Happy Little Ditty " and " A Walk in the Rain " have the kind of charm expected in a Temple musical . But staging of the numbers and overall set decoration leaves a lot to be desired . Bert Lahr and Joan Davis are on hand as a chauffeur and a maid but both are defeated by some flat one-liners . Charles Farrell is clearly past his career as a romantic leading man and is just so-so as Charlie's depressed father on the skids . For Temple fans only - - weaknesses in both script and song numbers - - and not much else can be said for it . It's all very routine and quite forgettable .
America's propaganda to boost WWII morale . . .	Propaganda was sometimes pretty heavy-handed during the WWII years and " I Am An American " demonstrates this point to perfection . It's about as flag waving as you can get , but taken in the context of those war years , it's understandable that every major studio in Hollywood was coming up with films of this ilk . It also happens to be a sketchy history lesson , encompassing so much of America's history in fleeting montages devoted to the discovery and building of a great country , peopled by all nationalities . It's obviously a " united we stand , divided we fall " kind of philosophy that sets the tone for the film . DENNIS MORGAN is pictured at a morale boosting rally to sell war bonds and delivers a very patriotic speech in professional fashion . Obviously , this was intended as Warner's salute to Americans during the height of WWII . It follows the history of a Polish family and its contributions to the war effort through the sacrificing of many young men to fight various wars .
Cult oddity is watchable but crippled by bad acting . . .	Any monster tale featuring BELA LUGOSI in a starring role has got to be watchable , at least for some unintentional laughs . BRIDE OF THE MONSTER doesn't disappoint . It's typical Ed Wood nonsense , filmed on a very low budget with actors who are only occasionally competent and some that are downright bad . TOR JOHNSON , as a monster , and LORETTA KING , as a newspaper woman , are barely credible , especially Miss King who has all the professional poise of an amateur actress doing her first reading . The fun begins when she ends up in the clutches of doctor Bela Lugosi during a thunderstorm . All of the storm scenes seem to benefit from some stock footage of lightning splitting the sky . TONY McCOY is the male lead as a detective and at least puts a little more believability into his dialog . As a horror film , it fails to be more than mildly engaging , mostly because of the uninspired script and bad acting . It's hard to tell whether Lugosi is playing his role straight or making fun of it - - he's that bad , but Miss King is even worse . Complete with less than frightening special effects , it doesn't rank high on the fright meter . Summing up : Recommended only for Ed Wood fans who are curious enough to want to see all his works .
Amusing bits but painfully unfunny cornball one-liners dominate the film . . .	The man who provided Disney with the voice for Prince Charming in SNOW WHITE is the leading man here , HARRY STOCKWELL , father of Dean and Guy Stockwell . He's an unphotogenic man with a splendid voice , but it's easy to see why he never made it in films . He's totally unphotogenic and lacks whatever charisma is needed for stardom . Stockwell and VIRGINIA BRUCE play aspiring singers who enter a radio contest , during which all the other acts are ridiculed and played strictly for laughs . Funniest bit of all is done by BILLY GILBERT who demonstrates why he played " Sneezy " in Disney's SNOW WHITE by doing a whole act based on his sneezing abilities . Virginia Bruce is her usual bland self and the humor throughout depends on vaudeville one-liners that were corny even then . In other words , the witless script is a poor thing to endure for an hour and twenty minutes , cut drastically after a disastrous preview . It's a curiosity . TED LEWIS is top-billed but gets brief footage - - perhaps the victim of too many cuts . Watchable but only at your own risk .
Dr . Ordway can't take a vacation from crime in Paris . . . one of the weaker entries . . .	This Dr . Ordway story has to be one of the weaker entries in the series . First of all , there's too much exposition going on for the first half-hour , all talk and no action . The plot involves art forgeries , art dealers , a painter who specializes in making copies of original art , and a knife-throwing act - - all of which take up a lot of time for WARNER BAXTER to unravel . Through it all , we get an assortment of authentic French accents from most of the cast , with the exception of STEVEN GERAY who plays the art dealer . But as in all the Dr . Ordway stories , his scheme to hold an auction is really a trap to catch the killer . Despite all the exposition , the plot is a murky one that seems a bit far-fetched when you stop to think about it . The only other actor in the cast known to American audiences is EDUARDO CIANNELLI as the knife-thrower who becomes just one of the suspects until he unceremoniously dies in his sleep . This plot device doesn't leave much surprise in the revelation of the actual thief and murderer . Summing up : The other crime doctor films are much better than this one .
Tacky , absurd , funny horror anthology has its moments . . .	It all depends on your sense of humor , but this is meant for horror fans who like their fright sprinkled with laughs as the absurd takes priority over logic . It's the kind of horror anthology you'd expect from writer Stephen King , who also plays a nerdy hillbilly in one of the five sequences . LESLIE NIELSEN stars as a man who plans a wickedly cruel demise for his wife and her lover ( TED DANSON ) ; E . G . MARSHALL is a man who is so germ conscious he has his entire apartment turned into the ultimate clean environment only to have it overrun by cockroaches ; and ADRIENNE BARBEAU and ED HARRIS have fun with their roles as a sparring couple ( think " Virginia Woolf " ) , a history professor and his nagging wife , while he plans a way to get rid of her . That's the sort of horror tales told here and , frankly , they rate higher on the laughter scale than they do registering fright . For Stephen King fans , it's the kind of thing they'll want to see and it probably delivers enough twists to keep them satisfied . What helps is that the style is strictly out of Mad Comics .
The music is brilliant - - the story is a test of endurance . . .	If you love classical music , CARNEGIE HALL will give you an earful . Some of the great performers of the time are seen in concert , such as Leopold Stokowski conducting Tchaikovsky's " Symphony in E Minor , " Artur Rubenstein doing Chopin's " Polonaise " and " The Ritual Fire Dance " at the piano keyboard , Jascha Heifetz and his nimble fingers on the violin for Tchaikovsky's " Concerto for Violin , " all performed brilliantly and making for a memorable soundtrack . But the story is a mawkish affair - - MARSHA HUNT wanting her son to be a concert pianist who will some day play at Carnegie Hall , while he has other plans that include the world of modern music . When he joins the Vaughan Monroe band , mother and son sever their relationship and the rest of the tale treads the predictable movie line of many a backstage musical with no inspiration from the screenwriter . It doesn't help that Hunt's age make-up is as artificial as the thin plot that is supposed to hold all of this music together . WILLIAM PRINCE as her son makes almost no impression and MARTHA O'DRISCOLL is merely eye candy as the girlfriend who becomes his wife . If only the producers had a script worthy of all this music . RISE STEVENS does a nice job on an aria from " Carmen " and LILY PONS gets to do her famous " Bell Song , " but neither of these acts are staged as more than " get up to the mike and sing . " EZIO PINZA and JAN PEERCE are a bit luckier in the staging of their arias . Music lovers will certainly appreciate all the musical bits , some of which go on for quite a lengthy time while what little plot there is comes to a complete standstill . A feast for the ears , but not much can be said about the film itself which is more like a test of endurance over two hours and sixteen minutes of running time . Trivia note : All of the performing scenes were actually filmed at the newly refurbished Carnegie Hall .
Story strives to be " a poor man's Citizen Kane " . . .	The pitfalls of blind hero worship are examined at length in KEEPER OF THE FLAME with SPENCER TRACY as an intrepid reporter trying to find out what dark secrets are behind all the repressed household members who refuse to divulge much information about a dead patriot . Most secretive of all is KATHARINE HEPBURN as the man's widow who , it turns out , is the real " keeper of the flame " in that she cannot divulge what it is that's behind the death of her husband who was so beloved by the public . It's a heavy-handed treatment that George Cukor gives this story , interesting but very flawed in that it cloaks everything in too much ambiguity until the final moments . By that time , viewers will be wondering when this long-winded scenario will end . It's almost an early film noir in its presentation - - very low-key lighting full of shadows as dark as the mystery behind the man's existence . Was he trying to ruin America with his fascism ? Was he clearly a man who deserved death as a punishment for his sins ? Very unusual for an MGM film of this period to soak up so much noir atmosphere and , more than that , to serve as a vehicle for the talents of Hepburn and Tracy . Some of it works , but much of it is tedious in the telling . A good cast gives it what it deserves , no more , no less , including FORREST TUCKER , MARGARET WYCHERLY and DARRYL HICKMAN ( in another one of his tiresome childhood roles ) . Certainly not for everyone's taste . George Cukor's fussy attention to detail holds the film back from being a taut exercise in suspense .
Mindlessly juvenile horror film gets worse as the plot unwinds . . .	Whatever horror is in store for the mindless young vacationers in CABIN FEVER is exactly what they deserve . This is the kind of tale that gets off to a slow start , introducing a bunch of unlikeable main characters before we start getting to the gore . Nothing subtle about this one . It goes downhill after the first half-hour and never quite recovers , perhaps because the writer / director team only think they're creating a " cool horror film " but give their principal characters pages of unbelievably dull and completely banal dialog when they aren't spitting blood or vomit . Its puerile appeal is not aimed toward the discriminating horror fan . The plot hinges on a homeless man who appears to need their help . When he attempts to steal their car , they turn into overly defensive savages and succeed in killing him when he's accidentally burned to death . As happened in another recent horror film , JEEPERS CREEPERS , the youngsters begin to turn on each other as they cope with their collective guilt . When a flesh-eating virus , presumably caused by the man they killed , gets into their drinking water , they begin worrying about their fate when one of the girls becomes infected . If the tale had been constructed with above average intelligence , something worthwhile might have emerged . But it's bogged down by banal juvenile dialog and the fact that none of the characters have any more appeal than a bunch of sick animals . They seem to exist only to show us how foolish the overdrawn tale is . The humor is tasteless and the one character along for comic relief is boorish and disgusting . In fact , that's the overall effect of the film based on the premise that a stinking reservoir is enough to create a horror plot . It's all amateurishly directed without a shred of inspiration by Eli Roth who must have been overly influenced by something like THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT , minus the shaky camera . Too much of the gore involves his main characters vomiting or spitting blood . The only redeeming feature is some handsome autumnal photography of the countryside . Other than that , forget it . Easily a so-called horror film you can afford to miss . Only decent character in the story seems to be Rider Strong who also delivers the only likable performance .
Weak murder yarn wastes everybody in the cast . . .	Once again GEORGE SANDERS is a cad who tries to set up STEWART GRANGER for the murder of Sander's unfaithful wife . DONNA REED is the pretty female lead , Stewart's loving wife , who cannot believe Granger is capable of murder and stands by him , for the most part , during the proceedings . All of it is given stylish B & W photography , posh settings , a fairly interesting jazz score for the background music , and a couple of intriguing twists - - but nothing really puts it over as anything more than a below average thriller . A feeling of deju vu sets in not long after the opening credits with Granger intent on proving himself an innocent man framed for murder . DONNA REED almost sleepwalks through the role of the good wife , never blinking more than an eyelash at whatever revelations are being made about her husband's conduct . STEWART GRANGER handles his role with his usual authority and skill and GEORGE SANDERS is competent enough as the scheming killer . But ultimately , it's a time waster , with nothing new to offer in the realm of suspense .
More gripping than the 1932 version directed by Robert Florey . . .	Although not in the same league with Warner's HOUSE OF WAX , at least this version of the Edgar Allen Poe story has some interesting ingredients that make it passable entertainment . First and foremost , the always dependable KARL MALDEN as a sinister man terrifying Paris with his ape and a pleasant supporting cast that includes CLAUDE DAUPHIN , PATRICIA MEDINA and a very young and slim MERV GRIFFIN . David Buttolph's music adds some flavor to the improbable Poe story and the sets and costumes provide additional quality . But the basic story is so silly that none of it seems quite credible . You just have to suspend your disbelief long enough to enjoy the tale , expanded a bit from Poe's original short story with only modest returns . STEVE FORREST , as a man wrongly accused , gives the film's most earnest performance but it's KARL MALDEN and his ape companion that you're most likely to remember . At any rate , a vast improvement over the stilted ' 32 version directed by Robert Florey with a very young Leon Ames as the romantic lead and Bela Lugosi providing the only thrills .
Murky B & W wildlife footage and overlong safari story . . .	TRADER HORN is somewhat of an endurance test to watch . The first hour is a compilation of animal wildlife footage filmed entirely on " The Dark Continent " , which looks even darker in the murky B & W cinematography on display here . The plot doesn't pick up until the first hour is over , thanks to the entry of EDWINA BOOTH , a white woman who seems like a threat to both Trader Horn ( HARRY CAREY ) and his young hunter friend ( DUNCAN RENALDO ) , a naive young fellow who is constantly being tutored and lectured by the grizzly older man who knows all about the jungle . But once the threat is over , she becomes a safari mate and the two men fight over protecting her as they make their way through some dangerous turf . Most of the wildlife footage is seen at a distance and is the sort of footage that would later adorn the Johnny Weissmuller films at MGM whenever a Tarzan film needed some extra background shots . It's definitely not up to the standards that " Wild Kingdom " achieved in color film much later on . Booth , a very beautiful woman , makes an interesting impression once she settles down to give a performance , and the men do the best they can with the material on hand . Carey seems not an ideal choice for the leading role and his character never has much warmth , but Duncan Renaldo does nicely as his sidekick , boyishly enthusiastic about every sort of adventure awaiting them . It's an uneven film , hurt by its excessive length and the fact that there is very little plot development until the film is past the midway point - - and even then , it ambles slowly toward a sluggish conclusion . The crew deserves praise for putting up with six months of the shooting schedule in darkest Africa , but it's doubtful that today's viewers will be satisfied with the slow moving tale burdened by dark , murky looking photography . As is often the case with movies from this era , there is no background music at all on the soundtrack except for the opening title credits .
First of the " Crime Doctor " movies with Warner Baxter . . .	It's odd that CRIME DOCTOR ( ' 43 ) , the film that started the B-film series at Columbia , is one of the least involving of the Dr . Ordway stories . The first half-hour is pretty dull before the film takes on any real interest in the amnesia background of Baxter's character . His development from complete amnesia to gradual recall is well handled and some of the scenes with JOHN LITEL have a certain amount of interest , but the story lacks overall believability with RAY COLLINS turning to the phone book in a search for Baxter's name and then becoming his mentor and leading him into a doctor's career with a quick montage of events establishing Baxter as a psychiatrist . MARGARET LINDSAY is attractive as the female interest , looking so much like a prettier version of Barbara Stanwyck , whom I always thought she resembled in manner and looks . For fans of the series , this one will do , but surprisingly it's not the sort of " first film in the series " that I expected and you have to wonder why Columbia decided to make a series after this one . WARNER BAXTER looks quite ill in most of his close-ups , so you can see the man was in fragile health all during these " Crime Doctor " films . He gives his usual solid performance but the film was a disappointment for me .
A glamorized , minor league " Snake Pit " full of melodramatics . . .	THE CARETAKERS represents what would have happened to THE SNAKE PIT if it hadn't been based on a semi-autobiographical novel and photographed with the accent on realism instead of Hollywood glamor . Every bad cliché imaginable is present in THE CARETAKERS ' script , and there are vague reminders that stand out as the plot situations seem taken from the outline of the Anatole Litvak movie . Here it's ROBERT STACK as the decent doctor ( instead of Leo Genn ) struggling to get his mental hospital on the right track instead of sticking to the old methods . His adversary is a rigid nurse ( JOAN CRAWFORD ) who wants nothing to do with his new ideas . She's given moral support by the equally hard nurse ( CONSTANCE FORD instead of Helen Craig in ' The Snake Pit ' ) , who is hell on wheels as the opposition for Stack . POLLY BERGEN is the unstable housewife ( instead of Olivia de Havilland ) , glamorized with every hair in place - - as are most of the other inmates - - and fluttering her false eyelashes as she recounts the troubled past that brought her to the hospital . It's hard to tell whether she's disturbed enough to be placed in the ward she's in because most of the time she makes more sense than the others . All of the women have wardrobes straight from a studio dressmaker and give no indication that they're in anything but a dressed down rest home for the weary . JANIS PAIGE hangs onto her glamor as a real nutcase who has occasional phony outbursts of distress where her mascara runs . BARBARA BARRIE is the film's token version of Betsy Blair ( the mute girl from ' The Snake Pit ' ) , unable to let people get close to her and providing the heroine ( Polly Bergen ) with a chance to break through to her silence and redeem herself in the eyes of doctor Stack who knows Bergen is getting well when Barrie is willing to put aside a flaming torch and embrace her . None of the outlined plot devices have any basis in reality . It's all a very shrill showcase for actresses who want us to believe in their melodramatic situation but are continually hampered by a cliché-ridden script and banal direction from Hall Bartlett . Trivia note : Herbert Marshall looks quite ill and had to film all his scenes in the afternoon when he was feeling up to the demands of acting . Summing up : Robert Stack is not well served by his doctor role here but would have better films in his future .
Slow moving creepfest is not for the faint hearted . . .	Lucky McKee wrote and directed this sluggish creepfest that has ANGELA BETTIS as a girl suffering from severe pangs of loneliness who is driven to kill in order to satisfy her need to have friends . She intends , of course , to become a Miss Frankenstein by creating a friend out of the body parts of those she kills . It's the kind of thing that may have looked good on the pages of Mad Comics or as a short story in anthology of horror stories , but as a feature film it appeals to the lowest common denominator of intelligence and taste . On the plus side , JEREMY SISTO as a young man who says he " likes weird " ( but , as it turns out , not as weird as Angela's May ) , and ANNA FARIS as May's lesbian friend , do excellent jobs entirely in keeping with this kind of thing . And ANGELA BETTIS as the weird May is convincing enough to freak out anyone who crosses her path with her wide-eyed stare , sometimes innocent , sometimes evil , sometimes just a glazed look . But the horror is almost stomach turning once May goes overboard and lets her insane impulses take over . The last twenty minutes are brutally graphic as she exacts her revenge on the world , much the way Stephen King's Carrie went haywire at the prom . But this is no CARRIE , and anyone calling it a cult masterpiece is way off the mark . It's a horror film that delivers some razor blade gore in the final scenes - - but most of it is beyond creepy . I agree with Leonard Maltin who said : " . . . way too pleased with its own cruelty to be watched on a full stomach . " There are excesses , after all , even in schlock horror .
Fast moving mystery / comedy , slick , smart dialog . . .	FAST COMPANY is a minor mystery / comedy about Joe Sloane , a book dealer who plays part time detective to solve a crime involving a crooked book deal . MELVYN DOUGLAS has a great time with the comedy aspects , delivering some tart lines with authority and FLORENCE RICE makes a nice impression as his ever loving wife . Naturally , there have to be heavies and the cast includes GEORGE ZUCCO , DOUGLAS DUMBRILLE , CLAIRE DODD and NAT PENDLETON to take care of all the other angles . The biggest culprit turns out to be LOUIS CALHERN as a very aggressive gangster type who strays from his usual suave kind of role to deliver a good performance as the mastermind behind a lot of crooked schemes in the rare book business . CLAIRE DODD is equally effective as his two-timing partner in crime . Strictly low-budget mystery / comedy has the benefit of some smart lines that put it in the above average category .
Why bother ? . . . .	After a stunning opening at a monastery in which a nun accidentally falls to her death from a church tower in an effort to stop a suicidal novice , PSYCHO 3 settles into a mediocrity it never recovers from . It's not that it lacks style . The Bates Hotel looks as run-down and seedy as it ever did in B & W and ANTHONY PERKINS can still chill you with his mania and quirky expressions - - but the story is pointless and most of the material feels like a re-run of previous films . JEFF FAHEY ( with his wholesome bad boy looks ) and DIANA SCARWID ( a pretty blonde ) are the latest victims to fall into the path of Norman Bates . The swaggering Fahey is looking for a brief job as a helper at the motel and Scarwid is a woman who almost meets her fate in a bathtub , much the way heroine Janet Leigh did in the original until a twist in the plot saves her . The film does manage to maintain suspenseful moments in credible fashion , thanks to some astute directorial touches by Perkins , who directed himself in this reincarnation of Norman . But it never becomes anything remotely as engrossing as Hitchcock's edge of the seat thriller , slow to deliver the kind of shocking moments of surprise ( and humor ) that made PSYCHO so much more enjoyable . Instead , it settles for being a slasher film and not a very good one . PSYCHO III is the weakest of the first three films . The much more creative PSYCHO IV : THE BEGINNING , is a much better piece of work with a finely crafted and clever storyline making it a worthy sequel to Hitch's classic . Summing up : The weakest point of the film is Perkins ' own performance as Norman . A hammy streak has crept into his acting by this time . You won't know whether to laugh or cry at some of his frightening expressions .
Light hearted Boston Blackie caper with same old formula . . .	Once again Boston Blackie puts one over on the police who wrongly accuse him of a crime he never committed . He uses his wits and ingenuity to outwit them at every turn - - each episode more incredible than the one before . But it's entertaining in a formula way , with CHESTER MORRIS obviously enjoying himself as Blackie and Inspector Farraday finally congratulating him on capturing the real criminal . DOUGLAS FOWLEY as Nails gives his usual hard-bitten performance as the villain , enjoyable as always in whatever supporting role he assumes . It's a low-budget entry , designed to fit the second half of a double bill , and moves at a brisk pace in little more than hour . Morris is surrounded by the usual Columbia cast of " Blackie " performers .
Bad mixture of comedy / tragedy / drama without a resolution . . .	For the first forty-five minutes one gets the feeling CRUSH is a comedy with some digs at sex and the single woman . Then , when the heroine ( ANDIE MacDOWELL ) falls abruptly in love with the organist at a funeral ( and has mad sex on a gravestone ) , the film starts to veer into more serious territory as her two best friends try to dissuade her from thinking of him as anything more than a fling . She tries , even going so far as to make a trip to Paris , France to enjoy her " freedom " and ends up almost making it with a Frenchman until she decides at a crucial moment to pack her bags and return to the waiting arms of her boy toy organist ( KENNY DOUGHTY ) . It's Doughty who gives the most natural performance as the sad-eyed , sensitive and unpolished guy with the raging hormones . He reminds me of a handsomer but blander version of Johnny Depp . When another more direct plan to convince their friend that she's making a mistake backfires , the plot veers off into tragedy before gradually resuming a lighter tone as the friends stop bickering and decide to resolve their problems by enjoying a gin and tonic and " fags " ( cigarettes in U . S . A . ) . We're left with the notion that the best way for all three to solve their problematic out of control lives is to simply sit back , and , in the words of Fagin , " shut up and drink yer gin " . At the end , there's a cheated feeling that the story can be summed up as much ado about nothing . Perhaps a more delicate handling of the theme of unconventional behavior ( especially from the so reserved British ) , would have been a better way to go . The performances are all better than average , which makes it a shame that the film didn't have more of a statement to make . The bawdy behavior is treated in a casual fashion ( the Brits are way ahead of us in matters of sex ) and it's all very uneven , never sure of itself and veering off into unpredictable areas instead of telling a story in a concise and believable way . Not recommended .
A formula for what's wrong with films of the ' 80s . . .	PRETTY IN PINK actually has a storyline that was done with more style and wit back in the ' 30s , only then it was called ALICE ADAMS - - about a girl from the wrong side of the tracks , ashamed of her home surf but dying to mix with the right social set and wanting to impress a wealthy boyfriend . Here it's the same situation , but moved to the 1980s , with saltier language and spicier situations - - exploiting the same premise with lesser results . The crude language is a turn-off in itself . This is almost a formula for the way films reflected the cheapening of social values as reflected in teen life and culture of the ' 80s . It's amusing to see Harry Dean Stanton in the guise of a nice , normal dad . Especially for those of us who remember him in films like THE PROUD REBEL where he played one of the worthless sons of Dean Jagger , totally convincing in his villainous role . Here he does a complete turnaround as a doting dad . Even the soundtrack clicks along in totally ' 80s style with pop songs setting the stylish mood of every scene . James Spader has an especially obnoxious role that he plays with relish . Nothing remarkable here . As a fan of classic movies I've seen it all before and you won't find it done any better than in ALICE ADAMS , the Katharine Hepburn / Fred MacMurray flick from 1938 . It puts this one to shame , a more high-toned version of the same storyline . Summing up : The saving graces of the film are the nice central performances by Andrew McCarthy and Molly Ringwald .
Time-worn and tedious . . . should have been called " The Braggart " . . .	SPENCER TRACY does about as well as can be expected in the role of a braggart who spends money that he doesn't have and marries the prettiest girl in town , MADGE EVANS , who worships him before she learns about his true nature . He seems to be an impractical man but the script has him conjuring up a " get rich quick " scheme that actually works in time for a happy ending . CLARA BLANDICK ( Dorothy's Aunt ' Em in THE WIZARD OF OZ ) does another one of her grumpy old lady impersonations , treating her son-in-law with disdain up until the very end . GRANT MITCHELL does well enough as the baffled father . But it's hard to find anything offbeat or unusual enough to bring some creativity into this time-worn tale taken from a stage play . It is , however , a good character study of a man who makes himself pretty obnoxious throughout the story with his bragging ways and take charge personality when it comes to business matter . Tracy is convincing but fails to make the fellow likable enough for Evans to care so much about him . Passes the time , but nothing special . Remade and shaped into a Red Skelton comedy by MGM in 1946 with Marilyn Maxwell as the blonde girlfriend and faring only slightly better .
Louis Hayward in a sort of reverse replay of " A Yank At Oxford " . . .	Apparently all it takes to not fit in at West Point is to be an American who was reared among English aristocracy and to have an attitude problem that puts others off - - a certain vanity , cockiness and arrogance that your West Point roommates just won't tolerate . What stretches credibility is that any cadet would be foolish enough to do the sort of things LOUIS HAYWARD does without expecting to win the animosity of the entire academy . Then again , for the entire academy to turn its back on him for some petty infractions , seems stretching things a bit for the sake of a plot device . His American friends are played by TOM BROWN and RICHARD CARLSON and there's a great deal of game-playing that is shown at an almost tiresome rate when Hayward isn't finding romance in the person of JOAN FONTAINE . Poor Joan gets lost amidst all the rugby playing and drills and plays most of her role on the sidelines looking on rather wistfully . When ingenue roles came her way in the early ' 30s , they had a habit of making small use of her talent . This one is pretty much a loser . Surprisingly , it opened at New York's famed Radio City Music Hall at a time when only prestigious films played the world's largest theater . Nevertheless , it remains pretty much a forgotten item these days .
Not quite enough on her Selznick stardom in GWTW . . . shown on the new GWTW DVD . . .	What's really surprising about VIVIEN LEIGH is that she was chosen to play Scarlett O'Hara after what was really an unimpressive and veddy British appearance in A YANK AT OXFORD , sporting pencil thin eyebrows of the period and wearing unflattering hairdo and dowdy clothes . Nothing in that performance could have induced anyone into thinking she could be transformed a year later into Scarlett O'Hara . Selznick himself confesses that he was not even sure after seeing her in the costume epic , FIRE OVER ENGLAND . And as the narrator so rightly observes , she began her British film career as " a not very successful actress . " The remark is fully understood when clips are shown of her first British films . Of course , all that changed once she did GWTW and WATERLOO BRIDGE , but by then she had been given the Hollywood glamor treatment that successfully made over her looks , a credit to the studio make-up artists as well as the astute Hollywood cameramen who photographed her . It's almost as if the Vivien Leigh of Great Britain left her British look and manner behind when she turned to tinsel town . Perhaps she was already a split personality in the making . Not exactly the sort of in-depth biography Miss Leigh deserves and on that score it is unsatisfying . It is superficial at best . But then , she was a very complex person and her life became a constant struggle with inner demons brought on by drugs to combat her illnesses . Some day , hopefully , a fuller , more truthful examination of her faults and virtues will become available to give us a better understanding of this fragile British actress who had her most famous roles playing Southern American women . Too bad Olivia de Havilland wasn't contacted to add something to the backstory of GWTW . De Havilland has been known to say that Vivien was " very much like Scarlett " in real life . Her secretary , Sunny Lash , said the same thing . Like Scarlett , Vivien could be " very cunning and always got her own way " .
A witless plot . . . and a waste of good Technicolor . . .	The only real compensation for watching THE GOLDWYN FOLLIES is the pleasing Technicolor - - but , unfortunately , none of the plot is believable nor are any of the characters likely to resemble anyone in real-life Hollywood . There are some worthwhile bits . The opera sequence with HELEN JEPSON is well done - - including a lovely version of " Siempre Libre " ; EDGAR BERGEN and CHARLIE McCARTHY are pros in a few amusing sketches ; KENNY BAKER does a professional job on songs like " Love Walked Right In " ; VERA ZORINA adds some dancing magic and ANDREA LEEDS lends her bland presence to the role of a naive young girl asked to give ADOLPHE MENJOU pointers on what the public wants . Leeds looks an awful lot like either Donna Reed or Olivia de Havilland in her close-ups . ADOLPHE MENJOU , too , is professional enough as the producer foolish enough to get ideas from a romantic young girl so he can produce the right kind of movie . Too bad Goldwyn didn't get some advice from good script-writers on how to stage this sort of thing . Summing up : Noteworthy only for the color cinematography and some of the talented bits , but the script is full of dull clichés , lifeless and unbelievable . I found Bergen and McCarthy gave the film its most enjoyable moments .
Missing most of the Broadway songs but tailored for Kelly , Ball and Skelton . . .	Obviously what was good for Broadway audiences was not always good for film - - especially when censorship demanded certain changes . Thus , when MGM decided to make a screen musical out of DU BARRY WAS A LADY , they had to jettison most of the score and keep a few Cole Porter numbers just to satisfy the censors . The result is a bland hodgepodge of a musical looking so prettily Technicolored that it seemed to be the ideal escapism the world needed in 1943 . It also had the advantage of giving new exposure to GENE KELLY , MGM's new dancing star first seen with Judy Garland in FOR ME AND MY GAL . Two other talents , LUCILLE BALL and RED SKELTON share top billing with Gene , giving Lucy a big chance to shine in all her Technicolor glory . But the story is a sappy one and gets off to a slow start with some banal musical and comedy moments that take place in the nightclub where Red works as a hatcheck man , Lucy is a singer and Gene an aspiring songwriter , before we get to Tommy Dorsey and his Orchestra delivering some solid jazz / swing with Gene Krupa on the drums . The plot starts with Lucy informing Kelly she can't afford to fall in love with a poor guy . Red becomes a wealthy gent when he wins the Irish sweepstakes and Lucy reluctantly agrees to marry him for his money with no objections from Red . When Rags Ragland offers to help Red get rid of his competition by slipping a Mickey into Kelly's drink , the plan misfires and Red falls into a coma , believing he's King Louis XV and Lucy is Du Barry with Gene as odd man out - - the Black Arrow . Unfortunately , the 18th Century part of the story has not much more wit than the modern sequences although it's amusing to see all the cast in powdered wigs and period costumes going through some slapstick paces . Lucy and Red make a good pair with the right comic timing and chemistry , but Gene Kelly's role is a pivotal one and probably one of his weakest earlier roles . Summing up : Lots of eye candy with all the Technicolor trimmings MGM usually put into their musicals . And watch for a brief guest star cameo from Lana Turner and an early glimpse of Dick Haymes as a singer in Dorsey's band .
Jane Bryan and Ronald Reagan star in Warner potboiler . . .	Just another one of those Warner Bros . B-films from the ' 30s where , if the truth were told from the beginning , the whole sorry story could have been cleared up without all the melodramatic fuss rendered here by the fast talking and very dated screenplay . But then we'd have no excuse to see RONALD REAGAN in one of his apprentice roles as an insurance inspector , JANE BRYAN as an " innocent " girl who just happens to get mixed up with bank robbers , and a whole cast of stereotyped actors from the Warner stock company going through the usual paces . Aside from Reagan and Bryan , SUSAN HAYWARD has a small role as a girl who reports a stolen dress to the authorities and starts the whole story about a girl ( Bryan ) who's unfortunate enough to be caught up in a chain of circumstances involving friendship with a " bad " girlfriend . Both of them end up serving time for a bank robbery , but it's only a matter of time before even more bad breaks put Bryan into the kind of situations that only Ronald Reagan can rescue her from . Done in the brisk Warner style with some tough dialog . After the final shootout , the fatally wounded bad girl says , " I'm on my way to see the boss . " Although the plot is silly , JANE BRYAN gives a sensitive performance as the unfortunate girl while Reagan has so little to do he might as well have stayed home . Susan Hayward looks pretty but has only a bit part . Bad girl SHEILA BROMLEY is a nasty piece of goods in a very overwritten role as a spiteful young woman who makes life hell for Bryan . Okay for a vehicle that played the lower half of double bills in 1938 .
1930's programmer is strictly fluff for teen-aged girls . . .	For starters , ANNE SHIRLEY , wearing a dark bathrobe with white collar design , looks exactly like Olivia de Havilland in an early scene from THE DARK MIRROR . I always thought they resembled each other strongly , but never more so than in this film . The story is the same old trite stuff about the petty squabbles among girls at a boarding school who become upset when the school monitor ( Anne Shirley ) has to report their extra-curricular activities to the school principal ( GLORIA HOLDEN ) . Pretty blonde NAN GREY becomes the primary target when Shirley spies her coming home late after a night out . You know the material is dated when the girls are gathered to listen to a speech " on a very important subject - - charm " , by an aristocratic lady foolishly extolling the virtues of exuding charm , the most important ingredient young ladies of the world are supposed to have in 1938 , no matter how air-headed they are . Charm is distinctly lacking in the screenplay . Although Anne Shirley plays her teen role with an overabundance of energetic innocence , it's hard to see why Selznick , a year later , tested her for Melanie in " Gone with the Wind " . At least , not on the basis of this girlish performance . It's the kind of B-film you can easily skip without missing anything .
Garbo / Gable chemistry wasted on weak romantic plot . . .	GRETA GARBO fans will undoubtedly forgive the screenplay which has Greta and CLARK GABLE romantically involved in an on again / off again relationship that is the basis for the whole movie . And , of course , Garbo's favorite cinematographer , William Daniels , is behind the camera making sure that she gets her fair share of lush close-ups . It starts out promisingly enough as a Gothic melodrama with Garbo fleeing the advances of a drunken fiancé ALAN HALE and rushing out into the storm . She seeks shelter in a barn but is discovered by CLARK GABLE who promptly takes a shine to her and invites her to take shelter under his roof . The opening scenes with Garbo and Gable have an innocent charm that makes them delightful to watch , with Gable giving a more natural performance than Garbo who already has a bag of transparent acting tricks . The plot thickens when Susan Lenox is forced to flee Gable's residence when her strict father and fiancé show up to bring her home . She ends up taking refuge on a circus train and ends up being " kept " by one of the managers . When she's reunited with Gable , it begins a series of misunderstandings . Garbo plays her role like the real diva she was , even pronouncing Gable's name - - " Rodney " - - in a melodramatic way . It's strictly downhill into pulp romance territory for the rest of the way . It's Gable who gives one of his most likable performances and sustains interest in the story's development - - not Garbo . Summing up : Only for die-hard Garbo fans . Noteworthy for a very fine beginning which soon lapses into mediocrity .
Narration has a sense of humor . . .	This color short accents the use of micro and macro-photography , so that we can see what a powerful microscope sees when looking at certain plants , animals and insects . It spends most of the time inspecting the insect world of colorful flowers and how some of them trap the bugs feeding on them . We get a close inspection of a cat's tongue as it washes itself , see a caterpillar maneuvering on a tree branch and later becoming a butterfly , all with close-ups shot in good color . It's not as fascinating as it sounds and only entertains because the narration is full of fresh perspectives of a humorous kind . Otherwise , it's an easy one to skip .
Poverty row western is more of a puzzlement than entertaining . . .	JOHN WAYNE is slim and lithe as a cowboy who anoints himself sheriff after the bad guys rub too many of the town's citizens out . From then on it's like watching a Hopalong Cassidy movie except this one is from Lone Star and is obviously a poverty row project with a few interesting moments for anyone who stays with it for 53 minutes . The tree stump idea puzzled me , as did the wall vault which served as the device behind which The Shadow gave orders - - and the whole plot is so rushed that there's little time to digest any of the backstory that leads up to the main storyline . A pretty girl is the romantic interest for Wayne but has little to do and GEORGE HAYES is beardless for this one before he grew his trademark stubble . Actually , the slender story seems like something borrowed from a Zane Grey western - - the one where the girl is part owner of a ranch , the bad guy is actually someone she knows but never suspects , and a cowboy with strong capabilities comes along and rescues her when she's in danger . The covered wagon going over the cliff into water is a neat sight toward the end and some of the stunt work involving riders and horses is on the mark . YAKIMA CANUTT is fun to watch as Wayne's Indian sidekick , a sort of Tonto to Wayne who rides a white horse . Passes the time quickly , but is clearly John Wayne as an apprentice actor .
STINGAREE is a curious misfire . . .	The red flags went up the moment I spotted William A . Wellman's name as the director of this hybrid western / musical which has RICHARD DIX as an Australian bandit named " Stingaree " who also happens to be a noticeably ungifted song writer responsible for some of the numbers IRENE DUNNE is forced to sing in this film . He's a bandit who finances the career of a pretty operatic singer . ( One number , in particular , gets quite a tiresome workout from Dunne's quavering soprano ) . Wellman's name is usually associated with much sturdier material than he has here - - films like WINGS , BEAU GESTE and THE HIGH AND THE MIGHTY . On the other hand , STINGAREE is not a formulaic musical so perhaps he knew what he was getting into . While Miss Dunne is one of my favorite actresses ( and I know she was chosen to play Magnolia in James Whale's SHOW BOAT ) , she has never been one of my favorite sopranos and this film didn't change my mind at all . Indeed , the film itself does nobody any great favor because the plodding script goes off in so many different directions , you're never quite sure whether it's meant to be serious or comic . Only when ANDY DEVINE and MARY BOLAND give out with some non-subtle comic relief in supporting roles can we be sure what the intentions are . Let's just say that not every film that turns up on TCM's " lost and found " package of RKO films deserves to be resurrected - - nor are they necessarily classics , so to speak . STINGAREE is one of them , best forgotten as an outmoded and lumbersome sort of film easily ignored unless you happen to be an ardent admirer of either Miss Dunne or Mr . Dix , both of whom have done better work elsewhere . Dunne excelled in the ' 30s and ' 40s as a woman who was usually one step ahead of , and smarter than , the man ( a more feminine version of the characters Katharine Hepburn often played ) . As the ingenue of a mixed up western , she's not exactly in her element and Richard Dix ( even with a mustache ) is just as hard to believe as a bandit as Nelson Eddy was in THE GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST . At least he and Jeanette had some good songs to sing . For comic relief , we have reliables like ANDY DEVINE , MARY BOLAND ( a stridently over-mannered performance ) , HENRY STEPHENSON and UNA O'CONNOR on hand , but nothing really helps . Summing up : A curious misfire that must have had a target audience once upon a time in pre-code 1934 , but that audience no longer exists outside a small clique who love anything made in the ' 30s , whether good , bad or indifferent , as long as TCM presents it . The title song sounds suspiciously like a Rudolf Friml reject . Trivia note : Dunne and Dix were both better received in CIMARRON made three years earlier and without music .
Sinister George Zucco has dual role in low-budget horror flick . . .	Clearly a film to play the lower half of a double bill , DEAD MEN WALK is a low-budget entry in the horror genre defeated by its stilted dialog and contrived situations . It's painfully dull and on the level of an Ed Wood film with amateurish acting from everyone except Zucco . Zucco plays a bad doctor who comes back as a vampire ( with the assistance of DWIGHT FRYE ) to take revenge on his good twin . As shown on TCM , the dialog is as murky as the photography and the print shown was badly in need of restoration . As good Dr . Clayton , Zucco declares that the latest death in the village " was not the cause of any known poison . " He is soon visited by his " indestructible " brother who threatens to destroy him . He fires bullets at his evil brother to no avail . The poorly scripted story gets sillier as it goes on . Summing up : No better , but somewhat worse , than dozens of other low-budget horror flicks . This one , unfortunately , shows its " poverty row " origins too clearly . Too slow-paced for its own good despite its brief running time .
Blooper outtakes made me want to see this ' 38 film . . .	Only because CAROLE LOMBARD and FERNAND GRAVET ( he played Johann Strauss in " The Great Waltz " ) are shown enjoying themselves during a blooper moment on the dinner set of FOOLS FOR SCANDAL ( in The Big Breakdowns of ' 38 ) , did I want to see this romantic comedy . Turns out not to be quite the lark I expected , even though it has the usual Warner contract players in the supporting cast , including RALPH BELLAMY , ALLEN JENKINS , ISABEL JEANS and MARIE Wilson . In the blooper , Carole had trouble digging into her steak which triggered an outburst from her and giggles from the other players . It was so amusing that I wanted to see the actual scene in the movie . Unfortunately , FOOLS FOR SCANDAL is the screwiest kind of screwball comedy . None of the characters are the least bit grounded in any kind of reality , strictly cut-outs with dull one-liners as they confront one silly situation after another . The plot is something about a screen actress ( Lombard ) being stalked by a charming Frenchman whom she eventually hires as a cook . All of her female friends are crazy about him - - and she's just , well - - crazy . CAROLE LOMBARD plays her role at a fever pitch of fast talking nonsense and FERNAND GRAVET joins the mad pace with good humored sportsmanship . RALPH BELLAMY has his usual third wheel role of a man earnestly in love with Carole but obviously not headed for the altar at the final reel . He plays his role like an eager puppy wanting to please , but the results are still rather meager . Summing up : Contrived screwball comedy is enjoyable only for the performances of the three leads , but the situations are unbelievable and overacted in the sledgehammer style of acting prevalent in Warner comedies of the ' 30s .
Implausible and contrived story of blind pianist finding love . . .	If there's one thing to be said for NIGHT SONG , it's that at least it does put the spotlight on some nice classical music . But you have to wonder what they were thinking when they dreamed up a story that has blind pianist DANA ANDREWS being wooed by a woman ( MERLE OBERON ) who , in order to get close to him , pretends that she is blind too . Then , when he gets his sight back ( thanks to a successful operation the wealthy woman sponsors ) , he sees her for the first time but feels guilty about the " other woman " whom he met when he was without sight . Well , with a plot like that , you know there's going to be an inevitable happy ending somehow - - or is there ? If that sounds like a silly description of the plot , it is . But that's the story we're supposed to swallow if we want to get any enjoyment out of the whole thing . MERLE OBERON looks lovely ( but hardly changes her expression when she's supposed to be wildly in love with Andrews ) , and DANA ANDREWS looks a little uncomfortable feigning blindness . HOAGY CARMICHEL is a welcome presence as the owner of the joint where Oberon catches Andrews playing piano , and ETHEL BARRYMORE gives another one of her arch performances as Oberon's knowing aunt . John Cromwell directs it in leisurely fashion but it all adds up to an improbable tale with both stars looking a bit uncomfortable in what can only be termed an " unbelievable " tale . The concert music supplied by Leith Stevens is underwhelming even given its symphonic treatment .
Antiquated Warner musical is short on charm . . . creaky is the word . . .	Despite a competent cast of players and the Vitaphone Orchestra doing their best to give the music a turn-of-the-century beer garden sound , SWEET ADELINE does nothing to indicate that musicals would find favor with the public in a big way . The old-fashioned Broadway play has been fashioned into an old-fashioned early ' 30s musical with absolutely no distinction , either in the musical numbers themselves or the lackluster storyline . It's all strictly cornball and very , very hokey . I'll leave a description of the story ( which takes place in 1898 ) to others who have already given a detailed synopsis . Suffice it to say that only the most ardent fans of IRENE DUNNE would be willing to sit through this one patiently enough . She does get a chance to lift her voice in song a few times but the result is , to put it charitably , very modest , nor are the songs anything to cherish . DONALD WOODS , a handsome actor usually confined to supporting roles , is the lead and relies on earnest glances at Dunne to carry his role . It's not enough . Some below par humor is supplied by Hugh Herbert and Ned Sparks . Summing up : Stands alone as one of the least entertaining musicals of the ' 30s - - bad script , dated material and forgettable songs .
Interesting but depressing . . . sad to see Montgomery Clift's frailty . . .	LONELYHEARTS is the story of a " Dear Abby " sort of columnist , unwillingly assigned to the job of helping the helpless losers who write to him ( MONTGOMERY CLIFT ) by a cynical newspaper editor ( ROBERT RYAN ) . Ryan is so despicable that you have to wonder if he patented these roles during the heyday of his career . Clift looks alarmingly frail and disconcerted , his posture like a question mark , his face obviously given careful cosmetic treatment after an accident that almost took his life . He's also distracting to watch as he plays the vulnerable man with so much obvious pity for his character . DOLORES HART is the loyal girlfriend who almost walks out on him when things get too rough and she misunderstands a crucial situation . MYRNA LOY has a rather peripheral role as Ryan's long suffering wife who sits on the sidelines and murmurs disapproval of his tactics and tearfully gazes at the distraught Clift . MAUREEN STAPLETON has a pivotal supporting role ( in her film debut ) , as a woman unhappily married to a cripple and badly in need of advice for the lovelorn . She's excellent . It works , up to a point , but seems more a dated curiosity piece than anything else . Taken from a Nathaniel West novel and a play , it suffers from too many speeches from Robert Ryan as he preaches his cynical hatred for mankind in a pretentious style similar to Ayn Rand's characters . Ultimately , the verdict has to be interesting but depressing .
The only real surprises are in the cast , not the plot . . . ( POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD ) . . .	THE SECRET SIX looks like an antiquated crime film , despite some of the comments here talking about " MGM gloss " . It doesn't have any gloss and it doesn't compare favorably to the tougher Warner Bros . crime dramas of the same period . The only surprises here are in the odd casting choices . RALPH BELLAMY ( Mr . Nice Guy or " other man " in most films ) playing a rotten gangster type with lines like " Easy on the rods " to his fellow gangsters and a tough guy sneer on his face . He's a double-crossing leader of a gang who tries to get rid of WALLACE BEERY , but fails and is shot in the back by Beery for his efforts . Since this comes pretty early in the film , it's a bit of a surprise . So is seeing Bellamy as a gangster . The other surprise is seeing LEWIS STONE ( Andy Hardy's dad ) as a crooked lawyer who rules the mobsters with a firm hand , but makes the fatal mistake of turning his back on Beery toward the end . Stone seems out of his element here as the dapper lawyer with the cane . And finally , into the film comes a very young CLARK GABLE ( sans moustache ) looking fit and chipper as a rather callow newspaper man who jokes around with another newspaper guy JOHNNY MACK BROWN , who happens to be Harlow's love interest ( instead of Gable ) . Despite these surprises , the film itself is as ordinary as they come , a simple gangster story with a Prohibition background about bootleggers who get mixed up with gun molls , crooked lawyers and crime stoppers like " The Secret Six " who are able to capture bad guy Beery and put an end to his monopoly on crime in the city . The plot sounds vaguely like it may have been based on Al Capone's true-life story . Summing up : Only gets lively toward the end with all the shoot-outs , but pretty stale stuff most of the time . Trivia note : Interesting for the glimpse it gives of CLARK GABLE and JEAN HARLOW before they hit the big time stardom waiting for them .
A quickie capitalizes on the popularity of the original . . .	BRETT HALSEY is one of those handsome young actors from the ' 50s who never quite made it to stardom , and following the trend of other such actors , he fled to Europe where he found a niche for a decade or so in adventure films . He was certainly a competent enough actor and it's a shame Fox never groomed him for major stardom . Nor did Fox have enough faith in this one to use technicolor ( as they did for the original ) . As sequels go , it's just a fair job on an obviously shoestring budget - - and basically , without giving any of the storyline away , it's a story of revenge . It's all suitably photographed in low key B & W lighting that gives it the proper atmosphere . The performers are capable enough - - including Halsey , Vincent Price , John Sutton and Dan Seymour - - but their material is scarcely worthy of their combined talents . Fans of this sort of science fiction will no doubt find it has a certain amount of interest . Anyone who enjoyed " The Fly " will want to see this and probably not be too critical of the shortcomings - - although the special effects are not quite as harrowing as they could be . Summing up : Okay for a viewing , but not likely to be the kind of horror flick anyone will want to revisit .
Inferior remake of " The Lodger " has Palance as The Ripper . . .	Based on " The Lodger " by Marie Belloc Lowndes , this is another take on the Jack the Ripper legend that takes place in Victorian London's West End side . Sinister looking JACK PALANCE is perfectly well cast as the young man seeking lodgings in a rooming house during a period when the city is aghast over a series of brutal murders . The story begins with ISABEL JEWELL as a " lady of the night " getting her comeuppance from The Ripper . Produced by Fox at a time when the studio system was collapsing , it looks as though it was filmed on the quick ( and cheaply ) , using sets from other Fox films , particularly the atmospheric London streets with cobblestone and gaslights , a village set often used in Fox films of the period . Although it follows the Ripper story faithfully , there's nothing new about the presentation . Secondary roles are filled by lesser names like RHYS WILLIAMS and CONSTANCE SMITH and one gets the feeling it's strictly been given perfunctory treatment by writers and director . Smith is a very pretty lady but fails to make the same sort of impression Merle Oberon did in " The Lodger " in the same role of the showgirl . BYRON PALMER is rather colorless as a police inspector who falls in love with Smith . Strangely enough , JACK PALANCE is never as menacing as Laird Cregar was in " The Lodger . " There's more of the " smokehouse ham " in his performance than anything else . Summing up : The Ripper tale has been done better countless times .
Abbreviated with many ludicrous changes and badly cast . . .	Reginald Owen does an acceptable job as Scrooge , although one can easily spot the age make-up necessary to transform him into Ebenezer Scrooge . But this version is unforgivable for the many scenes cut from the story and for the foolish additions that have been added , especially during the film's first twenty minutes . This is the kind of film that will give purists nightmares . Production-wise , it's not a bad looking film with picture postcard views of a Victorian London created on the MGM sound stages . But none of the casting can be called inspired , beginning with Reginald Owen who was a replacement for Lionel Barrymore ( who would have been perfect in the role ) . And his change from a bitter miser to a kindlier old man is not convincing at all , given the many cuts in Dickens ' material . Attempting to tell the story in a mere one hour and nine minutes made all the cutting of scenes from the book absolutely necessary . Puzzling is the fact that this opened at Radio City Music Hall in December of ' 38 - - a showplace for major films accompanied by a stage show . One can only suppose that the stage show that year was a lengthier one than usual . Gene Lockhart , a very capable actor , is totally miscast as a rotund and middle-aged Bob Crachett . Barry MacKay does much better as Scrooge's nephew , Fred , given much more prominence here than in other versions of the tale . Ann Rutherford is a very pretty Spirit of Christmas Past but seems another case of miscasting . Most troublesome of all is Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim , who looks like he's more than twelve when he should be a tiny tot . All in all , a totally routine presentation of the famous story , hampered by having too many meaningful scenes cut and replaced with material that is not even true to the spirit of the Dickens novel . The much darker British version with Alastair Sim was far superior and , of course , followed the story all the way with superb casting .
Sentimental tale has historic value as a transition to sound . . .	To think that the world trembled when THE JAZZ SINGER was announced as a " talkie " musical and opened to huge crowds when it premiered , is to realize how far the cinema has come since this primitive showing . Actually , the story of THE JAZZ SINGER has a lot in common with Al Jolson's real saga told in THE JOLSON STORY . His cantor father was the Jewish man who opposed his singing anywhere but in the synagogue . In both films , the singer gives in to the lure of show business and eventually wins his father's approval . So much for the plot . A pristine print on TCM made viewing it a better experience than I expected , but it manages to be little more than a showcase for Al Jolson's specialty numbers . It began filming as a silent film with titles , but later the Vitaphone Orchestra was assigned to supply a full orchestral musical score for the background - - and they do an excellent job . But the faults lie in the acting which , for the most part , is still embedded in silent screen technique , which makes the scenes between mother and son excessively mawkish . WARNER OLAND , almost unrecognizable as a cantor with full beard , later went on to become the famous Chinese sleuth , Charlie Chan , in a series of movies . MARY McAVOY is the pleasant leading lady , a singer who encourages Jolson in his show business work , but the real star of the film is the Vitaphone Orchestra which , instead of sounding tinny ( as is often the case in early sound films ) , manages to sound reasonably full and rich in giving full sound to the instrumentals . Frankly , I enjoyed Jolson's vocals for THE JOLSON STORY ( he supplied the voice for Larry Parks ) , better than any of the singing he does here . His voice sounded fuller and richer in that later musical of the ' 40s .
Good neighbor policy with Mexicans gets a workout . . .	People must help the land produce crops , according to the agriculturalist at the center of this documentary about helping Mexican farmers make the best use of the land and farming techniques . " You're poor because the land is poor , " he tells the people that he and his wife are helping to plough the land . The whole idea of the documentary is to demonstrate the " good neighbor policy " that was dramatized many times during the ' 40s between the United States and Mexico . This is amply demonstrated in the course of the documentary which shows the husband and wife team extending a hand to neighbors who want to learn the new techniques so they can grow beans and other produce to feed their families . Summing up : Not dumb , as someone else suggested in his review , but an uplifting look at neighbors helping neighbors in rural farm areas that needed assistance to work the land .
Unsuccessful film is well acted by Mel Ferrer in title role . . .	EL GRECO tackles the life of the famous artist who spent most of his life in Toledo , Spain and whose paintings are marked by his unique style of portraying church figures and the common man . But this film is a weak attempt that lacks substance in telling the painter's story which , for dramatic conflict , involves his brush with the Spanish Inquisition and eventual dismissal of the charges , which changed his life forever . MEL FERRER is admirable in the title role , the costumes and sets filmed in Madrid are sumptuous and some of the supporting roles are well played , especially RENZO GIOVAMPIETRO as Brother Felix ( who sounds an awful lot like Leo Genn in " Quo Vadis " ) . But the final scenes with Elk Greco immersing himself in the world of the common man and the insane , are a mishmash and end the film on a weak note . The choral work is effective but becomes almost too obtrusive before the film is over . Hopefully , some day someone will do a film on " El Greco " that is as substantial as the earlier Hollywood film on " Rembrandt " and the Van Gough treatment in " Lust for Life " . But EL GRECO is flawed by a weak script and slow pacing under the direction of Luciano Salce . Not recommended .
Follow-up to " Miranda " is showcase for Glynis Johns . . .	I never saw MIRANDA but this is a lively sequel to that film with GLYNIS JOHNS again playing the saucy mermaid with her usual charm . Glynis is a flirtatious mermaid who takes the place of a schoolteacher for a couple of weeks , determined to find a better husband for her than the stuffy fiancé she's engaged to . They resemble each other greatly because , as " Miranda " describes it , they're both descended from the mermaid side of the family . It's utter nonsense , played to the hilt by a cast intent on making it reasonably funny but only partly succeeding . MARGARET RUTHERFORD overplays the role of a dotty nurse who looks after the mermaid and is in her element in over-the-top fantasy farce . DONALD SINDEN is a wealthy man Miranda has her eyes on as a possible husband for the schoolteacher . It's filmed in garish looking color ( unusual for a British film which usually featured muted color ) , but the charm begins to wear off fairly early as the plot gets sillier and sillier . Summing up : Mermaid comedies are not my cup of tea and this one is sillier than most , especially when the mermaid's inability to walk is compensated by some weak plot contrivances which has her being carried around by the men with her mermaid tail barely concealed under a thin blanket . Trivia note : Interesting to see JOAN HICKSON as the owner of a lodge , long before she became Jane Marple for British TV .
Uneven performance by Paulette Goddard in a central role . . .	AN IDEAL HUSBAND starts off with cinematic flourish as it introduces its main characters , but soon settles down to become the drawing room Victorian comedy intended . PAULETTE GODDARD as Lady Cheveley , has a central role as a scheming aristocrat who blackmails HUGH WILLIAMS over a past indiscretion involving a stock exchange swindle that started his career . Lavishly costumed , photographed in gorgeous Technicolor , it's directed at a stately pace by Anthony Asquith , who never manages to raise it above the level of an average drawing room comedy / romance . Miss Goddard is the American addition to a very British cast and gives a very uneven performance as the woman who sets out to destroy Williams ' career unless she gets her way . At thirty-six , she's beautifully gowned and photographed , but seems to lack the refined quality one expects in such a role . The delightful cast includes DIANA WYNYARD ( as Williams ' wife ) , GLYNIS JOHNS and SIR C . AUBREY SMITH , but the Oscar Wilde-based script is not one of his wittiest . The strongest performance in the film is given by HUGH WILLIAMS as the troubled husband who considers resigning from public life and the one with the most comic flair is SIR C . AUBREY SMITH . Not one of Wilde's most diverting comedies .
Long , long comedy is more exasperating than funny . . .	It must have seemed like a dream ticket : put Lucy and Desi in an MGM comedy , give it color and plush settings , hire Vincente Minnelli to direct , and let them play facsimiles of their Lucy and Desi TV show personalities for much longer than half an hour . Then see the money pour in . Well , it might have looked good on paper but when you have a full-length feature that has Lucy being mean-spirited as well as feather-brained and Desi reacting with predictable exasperation at all of her antics , you have a super-thin comedy extended beyond its worth so as to make a feature-length movie . LUCILLE BALL and DESI ARNAZ go through their paces with the same amount of enthusiasm they had on their famous TV show , but the laughs are scattered here and there and never amount to much , considering the promise that the premise held . Supporting players like MARJORIE MAIN and KEENAN WYNN have nothing much to do on the sidelines . Where are Ethel and Fred when you need them ? It's sad to think that Vincente Minnelli , a sensitive director with the ability to do great things on screen , wasted his talent on this situation comedy about a road trip that causes a couple to consider divorce . Audiences have to settle for one very funny scene where Lucy tries to cook dinner for Desi in the moving trailer and a couple of other slapstick moments - - but all of it is more exasperating than funny . MGM spared no expense on color and scenery , but it just doesn't work .
A murky mess of horror is strictly a cheap exploitation film . . .	It's sad to see that people with reputations as professional as CAROLYN JONES , MEL FERRER and NEVILLE BRAND agreed to star in this Tobe Hooper exploitation film , as cheap and lurid as any slasher from the ' 70s . There's a very non-subtle use of red over most of the scenes to remind us of the blood-letting to come . NEVILLE BRAND is the deranged proprietor of a rundown motel in the Bayou that makes the Bates Motel look cheerful by comparison . He has a nasty habit of getting rid of most of his guests in an unseemly manner before disposing of them by feeding them to an alligator lurking outside the premises . He's just as demented as any of the characters in Hooper's first film , " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , and twice as repulsive . Anyone who enjoys their horror films tinged with sadism will find fiendish delight in this mess of a film , deliberately intended to feed horror fans as much gore as possible with a minimum of characterization from anyone unfortunate enough to be in the cast . STUART WHITMAN turns up as the local sheriff , but like everyone else , he's defeated by a worthless script and horrid direction . Summing up : An insult to anyone's intelligence with some incrediby bad acting , even from the pros .
Remarkable only for Webb again playing the father of a brood of children . . .	CLIFTON WEBB , given the chance to " act " in LAURA , THE RAZOR'S EDGE and other fine films , is the Clifton Webb the public wanted to see . He made his mark as Mr . Belvedere in a number of Belvedere films and audiences loved him . But Fox did him a disservice by forcing him to play the remarkable man in this film , an 1890s gentleman married to two wives who know nothing about the other's existence . The only remarkable thing is that this time it doesn't work at all , plodding along in an attempt to be fresh and funny while at the same time irritatingly forcing its premise on the viewer by making all the other protesting townspeople look like old fogies . The only supporting role character worth mentioning is CHARLES COBURN , again adding his own special brand of ornery charm to a role that doesn't deserve his presence . DOROTHY McGUIRE gives another one of her understated performances as one of the wives . Unfortunately , an annoying performance by JILL ST . JOHN ( with high-pitched voice playing " young " ) gets the film off to a bad start . RON ELY is much better as her sweetheart . Henry Levin's direction is stilted and there's not enough comedy to really enjoy it as a Clifton Webb film . Saddling him with 17 children does not alter the fact that his prissy ways make the basic premise entirely unlikely . This sort of thing ( without the bigamy ) was done more effectively ( and much more pleasantly ) in CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN . Technically , the film is fine . Sets and costumes look good in Technicolor and provide the charm missing in the script .
MGM musical short on Franz Liszt's unhappy love affair . . .	It's hard to judge a short that was cut from 37 minutes to 17 minutes for U . S . showings as a two-reel short . A DREAM OF LOVE uses sets that look suspiciously like left-overs from a Jeanette MacDonald / Nelson Eddy musical . IAN COLIN as Franz Liszt lifts his tenor voice in song very effectively ( that is - - whomever dubbed the song for Mr . Colin ) but the story is a trite one about an ill-fated love affair smacking of class snobbery by the young woman's father . At the end , an aged Franz Liszt ( played by Bertram Wallis who looks nothing like Mr . Colin ) , clutches a rose sent to him for a typically sentimental ending . In certain shots , Mr . Colin looks a lot like the Errol Flynn of " Captain Blood " ( similar wig , similar profile ) which probably makes his singing seem even more mythical .
Too uneventful . . . fails to make a point with nothing more than haunting imagery . . .	I have to confess that I had to stop watching more than halfway through because tedium overcame my ability to concentrate on more of this sensitive film from Spain about youth and lost innocence . At least that's what I think the filmmaker was trying to develop , but the theme remained pretty obscure up until the point I stopped watching . The photography is gorgeous and vistas of Spain , supposedly during the ' 40s under Franco's rule , are intriguing , if a bit barren . The early scenes of the villagers gathering to watch a movie on folded chairs in a primitive looking town hall of some kind are fascinating to watch and one hopes that some strong characterizations will be developed . But fascination soon turns to tedium when the film dwells uneventfully on two girls who have witnessed the FRANKENSTEIN movie and are caught up in the concept of the monster's contact with the little girl . From that point on , it's a film too uneventful to make a satisfying viewing experience - - at least for me . It gives no insight into the connection between the villagers and the girls and what they have experienced from seeing the film which obviously made a deep impression on the impressionistic girls . Perhaps another viewing of the complete film at some future date will change my mind , but for now I can't give this a strong recommendation . Deliberately ambiguous until the end , it fails to connect the dots .
Dismal romantic fantasy , syrupy , boring and unworthy of its stars . . .	This is truly awful stuff from MGM for two of its most popular stars during the forties - - and even the presence of CAMERON MITCHELL in a supporting role - - where he must listen and listen to VAN JOHNSON rambling on and on about his childhood past and his attachment to sweetheart JUNE ALLYSON , doesn't save the film from floundering in a sea of sentimental mush . Nor does the presence of THOMAS MITCHELL as Johnson's uncle help matters . A plane crash has the two men ( Johnson and Cameron Mitchell ) sitting on a raft in the middle of the ocean awaiting uncertain rescue and much of the story is told in boring , sentimental flashbacks to the Navy flier's early life and subsequent romance . Johnson has long-winded monologues and all of them are dreadful to listen to . It's a wonder he and Allyson kept their box-office popularity as long as they did with flimsy material like this . Even the good support from CAMERON MITCHELL and MARILYN MAXWELL doesn't help overcome the weak script , an odd blend of fantasy about an island called High Barbaree and idealized romance . Unfortunately , it doesn't work on any level at all , let alone as a vehicle for Van Johnson and June Allyson .
Controversial film way ahead of its time in sophistication . . .	ENTERTAINING MR . SLOANE is certainly an uneven adaptation of the Joe Orton play , but it does create a few sparks with the performances of BERYL REID as Kath , PETER McENERY as Sloane and HARRY ANDREWS as Ed . The trio is involved in a three-way affair with Mr . Sloane who charms them both with his good looks and apparently bi-sexual leanings . It's certainly not the usual fare one expects to see on screen , even in the ' 70s when the material was considered quite daring . But the script gives the three principals some rich material to work with and the film now has a cult status with fans of black comedy . Orton is the gay playwright who was killed by his lover who then committed suicide and was dead before this film version of his hit London play was made . Whether he would have approved of some of the changes is debatable , but it still has the power to shock and cause ripples of laughter despite the darkness of the theme . Summing up : As oddball as they come .
Lucy stars as scatterbrained wife with some bright ideas . . .	There's a lot of the Lucy Ricardo personality in the wife LUCILLE BALL plays in HER HUSBAND'S AFFAIRS - - only here the husband who gets exasperated with her brainstorms is FRANCHOT TONE . It starts out with an amusing idea about a scientist MIKHAIL RAHSUMNY whose embalming lotion can be used to remove beards without shaving . It does so very efficiently until several hours have passed - - and then it grows abundant amounts of hair . FRANCHOT TONE is an advertising man who thinks he's going to have some successful products to launch with the help of the mad scientist , except that most of the plans go haywire thanks to the manipulations of his scatterbrained wife . The plot fizzles out after the first half-hour or so and after that it just gets sillier until the courtroom ending when things finally get straightened out in time for a happy ending . Summing up : Below average vehicle for Lucy five years before she made her big splash on TV as an even more troublesome wife in America's most beloved situation comedy I LOVE LUCY . Some laughs but the jokes wear thin long before the conclusion . Trivia note : LARRY PARKS has a bit part as himself in a scene where various big shots gather to try the new product .
Bill Murray comedy is a silly cult classic but not screamingly funny . . .	I never did find this one screamingly funny , as some Bill Murray fans obviously do . It's got a preposterous story with some good special effects ( for those slimy , jello-like green images ) and if quirky characters are your thing , you'll find plenty of them among the cast of characters . But a wittier script by Bill Murray would have helped . In other words , I can take it or leave it - - that's exactly how I felt when this comedy was over . Sure , there were some fun moments with Rick Moranis as a nosy neighbor and I'll admit Murray and Dan Ackroyd have some good one-liners . Then too , Sigourney Weaver is amusing as the gal with a fridge from hell , but by the time the overlong story got to its mindblowing conclusion , I was longing for " The End " to appear on the screen . Not my cup of tea as comedies go . Best moments were when the ghosts were on the loose and things got a little unpredictable toward the conclusion . But what happened in between these ghostly apparitions left a lot to be desired .
Lurid silent melodrama with DeMille touches . . .	THE CHEAT is interesting only from the standpoint that it's an early silent film from Cecil B . DeMille and the fact that the most realistic performance is given by Japanese actor SESSUE HAYAKAWA , famous now for his work in films like THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI . Even at a young age , he could give glowering glances like no other , saying more with his facial expressions than any dialog could convey . The rest of the cast indulges in broad , silent screen style of acting that sometimes borders on the ludicrous , but Hayakawa is restrained in technique and yet powerful . The story is the old chestnut about a wife who is forced to cheat on her husband and then - - to save herself from a fate worse than death - - she's forced to shoot the man who humiliates her by branding her as his property . She saves her virtue but her adoring husband takes the blame for her crime , which leads toward an explosive courtroom climax where Cecil B . DeMille lets his overabundance of energy show itself in a rowdy , overpopulated courtroom where the frenzied crowd reacts to her sobbing confession . Fans of silent films will probably relish this one - - but others have to beware . As for the fashions of 1915 , they have to be the ugliest clothes women ever wore in an effort to look elegant . You have to see the film to know what I mean .
Unpromising beginning for Coppola . . . slow , tedious horror film . . .	For a movie about an axe murderer , DEMENTIA 13 gets off to a lumbering start before the first brutal murder occurs at the first half-hour point . Before that , the story moves along at a snail's pace with some plotting as murky as the low-budget photography . There is no hint anywhere of the raw talent involved with Francis Ford Coppola behind the camera . The acting alone has an unprofessional quality , the sort usually found in a B-horror film without any distinction among the cast members . Top billed WILLIAM CAMPBELL is his usual surly self and is the only cast member giving a mostly competent performance . When the most striking thing about a film is the title , you know you're in trouble . Fans of Coppola can gush all they want about this early work , but it's no better or worse than some other undistinguished Gothic horrors from the ' 50s or ' 60s and easy to dismiss as just another in the genre with a modest amount of entertainment value . Summing up : Never lives up to its story potential .
Pirate nonsense with tomboyish Jean Peters swaggering with a sword . . .	Fox must have had a lot of left-over sets from Tyrone Power's THE BLACK SWAN ( and a trunkfull of period costumes on hand ) when they decided to film ANNE OF THE INDIES . It provides JEAN PETERS with a flashy role as a lady pirate ( a la Ann Boney ) , but her swagger seems more like the pose of a well-rehearsed actress willing to submit herself to a pirate film totally lacking originality aside from starring a lady pirate . All the clichés are here , including the black-hearted Blackbeard the Pirate ( THOMAS GOMEZ ) given the hammy , tongue-in-cheek style usually reserved for such an outgoing villain . This time the captive is not a beautiful woman but a handsome Frenchman ( LOUIS JOURDAN ) who , naturally , catches the eye of the tomboyish heroine and makes her wish she looked more like a woman . What she doesn't know is that he does indeed have a wife ( DEBRA PAGET ) who fills the role of conventional beauty nicely . Some of it is actually fun to watch and it's a no-brainer that , given the standards of the 1950s , the ending will conclude the way it does . I like JEAN PETERS very much , but this is one role that would have served MAUREEN O'HARA better . O'Hara had a more convincing way with a sword and the fiery temperament to go with the role .
Foolish comedy is all in vain . . . incredibly naive mixture of fact and fantasy . . .	GINGER ROGERS plays another one of her fluttery sapheads with a little girl voice and manner that becomes irritating after the first ten minutes . She's caught in a script full of trouble - - because none of it makes a good deal of sense . Supposedly , her crush as a girl on a boy who played Indian games with her , has her fantasizing that this boy - - now a man in her dreams - - is the one she was destined to marry . So , in a prologue to the nonsense , she shows up at the altar several times with a man she cannot exchange the wedding vows with - - even up until the ending where she and RON RANDELL are about to be wed . It's tiresome stuff , but is somewhat salvaged by a couple of bright performances from CORNEL WILDE as the Indian incarnation ( in her dreams ) and RON RANDELL as the stuffy suitor who has the best command of all the comic lines and situations . Indeed , it's Randell who gives the most polished , professional job in the whole film . And CORNEL WILDE , in a dual role as the Indian and the fireman Ginger eventually meets , lends charm and physical presence to his part . SPRING BYINGTON is properly befuddled ( as usual ) as Rogers ' dithery mother but the whole story fizzles long before it reaches a rather predictable ending . Ginger mugs her way through most of it but it's her little girl voice that is the most irritating factor in her portrayal of the daffy heroine .
Crime caper comedy is trivial stuff . . .	. . . but sufficiently amusing if you like British comedies from the ' 50s . A thief hides his loot in an old barge while two nosy old ladies watch from their window . Plot complications ensue when he tries to retrieve the loot later on in the West-End section of London . The bungled attempts of the burglars provide mild amusement . The story also includes a junk dealer who arranges for two girls to rent the barge when they're looking for an apartment to share . What they don't know is that the loot ( twenty-thousand pounds worth of jewelry ) is hidden beneath the floor boards on the barge . It's played in good farcical fashion and the laughs are deserved because they're not hammered home as they sometimes are in these kind of British comedies . The players are all unfamiliar to me , but they do well to sustain the frantic pace of the slim story . Summing up : Nothing special , but guaranteed to amuse .
Every imaginable cliché of the horror film in supposedly true story . . .	By the time the end credits roll on THE AMITYVILLE HORROR you feel as though you've been taken in by deception . Yes , it's based on a true story ( at least that's what the Lutz family claimed in the book they wrote ) , but it has been turned into the kind of horror film that keeps repeating every cliché of the standard horror flick we've seen over the years . Menacing music , thunderstorms with cruel flashes of lightning , plumbing that doesn't work , windows with peering faces , a bottomless pit in the basement , stairs that drip with blood - - it's all here so that everything that could frighten a family into leaving a house once and for all is on full display . The trouble is , none of it seems credible . Maybe it's the indifferent performances from JAMES BROLIN and MARGOT KIDDER and the kids , or maybe it's the hilariously over-the-top ROD STEIGER as a local priest who shouts over the telephone . Or maybe it's just that too much has been piled onto the story to give it the nightmarish horror the title implies . Whatever , it's a train wreck of a movie and nothing director Stuart Rosenberg does can do anything to dispel the notion that we've been had .
One small step up the ladder for Marilyn Monroe . . .	This is one of those conventional comedies of the ' 50s in which the righteous triumph over big bad corporate America , with MONTY WOOLLEY as a man who becomes indignant when forced to retire and goes about hatching a plan to draw attention to the subject of forced retirement . The theme isn't conventional , but the treatment is . Woolley gets to strut his stuff in scene after scene until the point becomes so obvious that you're willing to watch others in the cast who seem to be watching him on the sidelines . And there are some new faces to watch . David WAYNE , JEAN PETERS , RUSS TAMBLYN and newcomer MARILYN MONROE , who already had such a publicity build-up from Fox that many flocked to see the film because Marilyn was in it . She has a small , but choice role , as a curvy secretary who knows her effect on men . She shines ( glows is a better word ) in a charming small role . If you're a Monty Woolley fan and like his particular style of emoting ( acid-tongued and quick witted most of the time ) , you'll enjoy this , although it's certain a lesser work considering that it was written by Paddy Cheyefsky , who was then at the height of his writing powers .
A blurry commentary on the danger of isolationism . . .	Maddeningly slow-moving account of an aristocratic Italian family during the onset of World War II who conveniently ignore what is going on in the world beyond their fabled garden of contentment . It's all rather prettily photographed so that a dreamlike spell blurs much of the story and keeps the audience just as isolated from reality as the characters who inhabit THE GARDEN OF THE FINZI-CONTINI . It's a pretentious sort of film that Vittorio deSica has fashioned to illustrate what happened when Europeans isolated themselves from the ruthless turn of events that unfolded once Hitler and Mussolini came into power . Well acted by a competent cast that includes HELMUT BERGER and DOMINIQUE SANDA , it's hard to work up much interest in characters that are treated with such detachment by the screenplay . It moves predictably toward the crushing humiliation of defeat with passive Italians being marched off to suffer their fate in concentration camps , a downbeat ending to an offbeat film . Summing up : Will appeal mostly to the art house trade .
Nancy Walker's film debut . . . she steals the spotlight from Ball . . .	Here's a movie I adored when I was a kid , thrilled by " Buckle Down Winsocki " , the spirited song sung at a military academy by a bunch of singing , dancing and marching cadets . But seeing the film now , is a real letdown . It's below par in every department . At second glance , it's really a minor musical with HARRY JAMES and his Orchestra and a little gal named NANCY WALKER ( making her film debut ) as the chief compensations for a script full of lame , dated one-liners and some trifling songs with bad choreography . Even the great LUCILLE BALL , as the movie star invited to the prom , has a hard time getting any laughs . She's supposed to be a faded star whose press agent talks her into accepting an invitation from TOMMY DIX , who overlooks his girlfriend VIRGINIA WIEDLER because of his crush on Lucy . Lucy looks great and the Technicolor makes her a glamorous creature , but the script defeats everyone . It's nice seeing JUNE ALLYSON , GLORIA de HAVEN and NANCY WALKER having fun with a couple of tunes but while the picture at least got their careers off to a good start , it's no great shakes as a musical - - especially one from MGM which specialized in the very best of that ilk . NANCY WALKER struts her stuff as " Blind Date " material - - although some of the humor at her expense is a little cruel . But she's a reminder that real talent can even overcome some witless material . And I have to ask the question so many others have : whatever happened to Tommy Dix ? ? ?
Benchley demonstrates the art of underplaying . . .	You have to be a ROBERT BENCHLEY fan to appreciate his dry humor , especially when he deals with the even drier subject of this supposedly humorous sketch about a scientist talking about his latest find - - " the newt . " We never actually see what he's talking about . He makes several efforts to reach into a tank full of specimens but each time has to draw back , smile and say he'll take another look later . Meanwhile , his grumpy assistant is working nearby at a work table . He then uses charts to illustrate his remarks - - and naturally , none of them shed any light on the situation at all . Finally , his assistant who has more experience with the newt , is asked to reach into the tank so Benchley can display the newt to the audience . The weak payoff has Benchley showing that the little creature is invisible , even though it drops with a plopping sound when he tosses it back into the tank . Silly stuff no matter how you look at it . Certainly not one of his best skits .
No wonder Dick Powell longed to change his screen image . . .	During his early Warner career , DICK POWELL found himself playing the leading juvenile role over and over , sometimes with pleasant results . HARD TO GET ( ' 38 ) with Olivia de Havilland at least showcased him in a daffy , colorful comedy role that he handled adeptly and had only a couple of songs to sing . It was really one of the best among his brash Warner roles . But COWBOY FROM BROOKLYN is pretty thin stuff , even for Dick Powell fans and pretty hard to swallow , even with a cast that includes PAT O'BRIEN , PRISCILLA LANE , RONALD REAGAN and ANN SHERIDAN , none of them seen advantageously , particularly Reagan and Sheridan in minor roles . It's a musical about a singer ( DICK POWELL ) who must pretend to be an authentic cowhand for the sake of landing a job on a dude ranch run by PRISCILLA LANE . PAT O'BRIEN is a manager who discovers Powell and thinks he's an authentic cowboy he can use in his rodeo . The zany plot takes it from there with the mistaken identity theme in full gear . A book on Warner films gives a brief rundown of the film as described by N . Y . Times critic , Bosley Crowther : " A piteously frail satirical idea . " Nuff said . Fans of any of the above stars are likely to agree with Crowther . I know I did . Some of the musical moments are pleasant enough , but not enough to compensate for the silly plot , culminating in a hypnotized Powell able to overcome his fear of animals long enough to get a film producer to sign him to a contract . Trivia note : That's JEFFREY LYNN in a bit role as a reporter with one line to speak - - and JAMES STEPHENSON as the hypnotist .
Offbeat film has absurd central character in title role . . .	John Huston co-authored the script for THE AMAZING DR . CLITTERHOUSE and whatever fun he was having with the concept of a respected doctor who turns to crime in order to become a method criminologist by joining a hoodlum gang of thieves , it doesn't quite jell . At no time does director Anatole Litvak let us know that this is supposed to be a comedy or spoof of Warner gangster films . However , audiences must have found the idea more than a little offbeat to be taken seriously . Making things further unbelievable is the way CLAIRE TREVOR plays the gun moll with such intensity , but immediately takes a liking to the amazing doctor after opposing his very presence among them . Her shift to tender romantic feelings is blatantly unrealistic . HUMPHREY BOGART's role at least makes sense . He's the only gang member to take an instant dislike to the good doctor when he sees how assured he is in taking charge of things the moment he lands in the den of thieves . But the story takes a grim twist toward the end , dealing with Bogart's fate . Another absurd angle is the gang's willingness to have the doctor performing his blood tests on them as a part of his research project every time they go on a heist . Add to this the courtroom ending with some unbelievable happenings and you have a crime drama ( or is it a crime comedy ? ) , that rarely makes any sense and strains credibility at every turn . EDWARD G . ROBINSON is fine as the doctor and has one especially good scene where he plays cat-and-mouse with THURSTON HALL to find out whether the man will be willing to represent him at trial . Robinson , Bogart , Trevor and director Huston would all reunite ten years later for a much finer film - - KEY LARGO - - which utilized Trevor's talent in a much more rewarding way . At best , this is a curiosity that holds the interest but can make you impatient with the absurdity of it all .
Betty Grable is the prim and proper Miss Pilgrim . . . not good box-office . . .	THE SHOCKING MISS PILGRIM was one of the few BETTY GRABLE movies that did not bring them in at the box-office , probably because her famous legs are not in display in this story about women in the work force , circa 1870s . Instead , the usually bubbly Miss Grable is seen in demure costumes , although her blonde hair is a rather garish touch considering the era . She's paired with the rather weak DICK HAYMES , although his baritone voice lends itself nicely to a couple of Gershwin songs - - notably " Aren't You Glad We Did ? " and " For You , For Me , For Evermore " . As with all of Fox's Grable films , it's nicely photographed in Technicolor and there are supporting players like ANN REVERE and GENE LOCKHART to add a genial touch to the proceedings . The story itself concerns itself with the proper place for women at a time when they were new to the work force and found it hard to be accepted in the all male society of the office , even if they did graduate from secretarial schools . The film deals neatly with these aspects and has a certain nostalgic charm . Not one of Grable's box-office hits , probably because she was too covered up to be the glamorous Fox star of previous musicals , but modestly entertaining for fans of the genre .
Smoothly played but uneven mystery is disappointing . . .	MELVYN DOUGLAS is debonair , WARREN WILLIAM is clever and sophisticated , and VIRGINIA BRUCE is decorative but bland as a lovely blonde , but ARSENE LUPIN RETURNS is pretty much a replay of the original film " Arsene Lupin " with little variation in plot and theme . The supporting cast includes such dependable actors as GEORGE ZUCCO and MONTY WOOLLEY , but the story never becomes more than a routine mystery with overtones of comedy , despite the handsome MGM production values . It's interesting mainly to see how Douglas will evade detection as the police close in on the man suspected of being the jewel thief whose theft of a precious emerald from a safe has them on his heels , just waiting for a chance to catch him in the act . The plot takes an unexpected twist when a cast member who is the least of the suspects , turns out to be the man responsible for murder and theft . Overall effect is that it's a watchable film , mainly because of the cast , but it's a forgettable item as a mystery .
Foolishly over-exaggerated comedy on becoming a star in Hollywood . . .	I usually like the Joe McDoakes comedy series " So You Want To . . . " , etc . , but this one takes the cake for carrying absurdity to the extreme . It's one thing to spoof show business and the workings of Hollywood's movie factories , but to present McDoakes as a wanna be actor who makes life hellish for director Anthony Anguish ( does every director have to be an impersonation of Michael Curtiz ? ? ? ) , and have him do it in such absurd ways is more than a little exasperating . His chance to play a messenger role is ruined when he insists on sounding like either Charles Boyer or Ronald Colman . Making the whole mess worthwhile are a few glimpses of real stars - - Ronald Reagan , Jack Carson , Alexis Smith , Wayne Morris , Robert Hutton , Martha Vickers and Janis Paige . But the comedy is insufferably broad and repetitious . Thumbs down on this one . I couldn't find it genuinely amusing , not even the pie in the face ending . But don't mind me . It was nominated for a Best Short Subject Oscar but didn't win .
Tiresome story depends heavily on Loy / Powell chemistry . . .	It was inevitable that " The Thin Man " series would run out of steam eventually and this last entry is probably why both Powell and Loy never made another one . The background for this mystery is a gambling boat with jazz musicians giving the film a very dated look because of all the jive talk , circa 1940s . And as usual , there are more suspects than there are murders , with Asta and Mrs . Charles trying to help Nick solve the crime . MGM spared no expense in giving the film a glossy , polished look and a sparkling supporting cast - - PATRICIA MORISON , LEON AMES , GLORIA GRAHAME , KEENAN WYNN , DEAN STOCKWELL ( then 11 ) and PHILIP REED . The problem is the usual flaw in these Nick and Nora mysteries - - the viewer never gets enough clues to solve the crime along with the two sleuths . You're just along for the ride as the two deal with a host of unpleasant characters , among whom is a murderer who invariably slips up in time for Nick to solve the crime . Summing up : Good chemistry between Loy and Powell is still there , but they get little help from a tiresome script .
Lee Marvin reprises his " Cat Ballou " characterization . . .	PAINT YOUR WAGON is one of the messiest musicals I've ever seen on screen , but there are a few compensations among the cast of non-singers in the principal roles . One , is getting to hear HARVE PRESNELL do a nice professional job on " They Call the Wind Maria " in one of the film's opening musical numbers - - and the only really great song in the show sung by a pro . Unfortunately for Presnell , he's hardly seen in the rest of the movie . The other halfway decent number is performed by CLINT EASTWOOD ( " I Talk to the Trees " ) but it's practically a throwaway . The other is the compensation for seeing LEE MARVIN reprise his " Cat Ballou " characterization all over again with a liquor bottle to his lips and the most impoverished looking costumes and make-up this side of skid row . He makes the most of his role as a scroungy looking boozer and even gets to recite some of the screenplay's wittier lines . And all of the rustic humor of the piece gets some nice backdrop with the Oregon scenery looming majestically in the background . But given the final pictorial result in rather muddy looking color , it wouldn't have mattered if the scenery was painted or not . Still another compensation : JEAN SEBERG looking lovely as the woman who has all the menfolk staring at her good looks ( there's a huge shortage of women in camp ) . She , Marvin and Eastwood are a pleasant trio and bring some energy and humor to their roles . But the songs by Fredrick Loewe are poorly integrated into the plot , most of them not even remotely approaching Loewe's earlier musical collaboration with Allan Jay Lerner . And worst of all , it's directed at a snail's pace by JOSHUA LOGAN who made such a mess of other Broadway hits , like SOUTH PACIFIC . Strangely enough , for a musical , there's no choreography to speak of - - the songs just seem to happen and most of them are highly forgettable , especially the " Gold " number sung in the mine . A nice ballad called " Wandrin ' Star " gets some nice male choral background treatment but has Lee Marvin talk / singing the lyrics . Two hours and forty-eight minutes is a long time devoted to a musical where only one professional singer is given a decent song to sing . This is the pits . As a comedy full of brawling gold-miners , it has some passable moments . As a musical , it just comes to a standstill for the songs and then lumbers on interminably until the " No Name Town " crumbles and falls into the earth like a modern Sodom getting its final destiny after a sinful existence . PAINT YOUR WAGON seems to exist in a strange no man's limbo , an uneven mixture of passable rustic comedy given a weak , almost bland musical score . No wonder that despite being given the roadshow treatment when it opened , it fizzled at the box-office .
Routine , lackluster follow-up to ' The Adventures of Rusty ' . . .	Malicious gossip about a war veteran ( STEPHEN DUNNE ) is at the center of this routine story in the Rusty series starring TED DONALDSON as the boy who tries to befriend the veteran only to have the friendship cut short by an accident involving explosives that hurt Rusty . STEPHEN DUNNE gives an earnest , likable performance as the misunderstood veteran soldier and THURSTON HALL does a nice job as a helpful and trusted lawyer Gibson who defends the man accused of a misdemeanor for using explosives / The final courtroom scene tends to be too preachy in its summation of small-town American values , as well intended as it is , even though Thurston Hall delivers it well . But the story essentially is a weak one , bolstered only by the likable performances and the amazingly well trained canine mentioned in the title . The only real interest in the story comes from the mystery surrounding Dunne and his erratic behavior , which is only solved by the courtroom testimony he's forced to give about his background . Summing up : A small trifle about a small-town incident used to showcase the abilities of a dog named Rusty and his owner , Donaldson .
Breezy romantic comedy with fast talking Gable and Bennett . . .	CLARK GABLE and CONSTANCE BENNETT never seem to run out of fast talk and wisecracks , giving this romantic comedy / mystery a lift simply by lending their star presence to a breezy newspaper tale that seems to be the forerunner of more substantial news stories like THE FRONT PAGE or HIS GIRL Friday . It has a strictly ' 30s look , with Bennett outfitted in clinging costumes that show off her slender society gal figure , spouting smart and sassy lines with great effect - - as she did in TOPPER . Gable is surprisingly adroit with his newspaper man guy , brash and confident as only Gable can be , equally good at delivering the sharp dialog , especially when he's barking orders over the phone at his assistant , HENRY TRAVERS . BILLIE BURKE is Bennett's society lady mother , fluttery and featherbrained , as usual . The film hits a snag when the story involves the murder of a young woman and Bennett is assigned to cover the story . The unexpected change from breezy comedy to murder mystery has an uneven feeling . WILLIAM DEMAREST is wasted in a brief role as the lead detective . STUART IRWIN has the thankless role of Gable's sidekick supposedly supplying the comic relief . It's Gable who suspects who the real murderer is ( after the wrong suspect has been nailed by police ) , and he spends the last fifteen minutes solving the crime . Summing up : Not too bad , but not very original either , saved by the combined talents and good chemistry of Gable and Bennett .
Synthetic casting of MGM stars as lazy fishermen in seaport town . . .	There are two standout features of this film version of John Steinbeck's TORTILLA FLAT . One is the improbably beautiful HEDY LAMARR as a Portugese girl , showing more fire and spirit than usual in an unusual role ( for her ) . The other is FRANK MORGAN , who in an exquisite sequence set in a forest , does an unforgettable job as an old man who thinks his dogs have seen a vision . Other than that , it's pretty hard to accept SPENCER TRACY ( again assuming the sort of accent he had in CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS ) as the town's laziest and most conniving drifter , JOHN GARFIELD , SHELDON LEONARD and others as Latinos with Brooklyn accents showing , and AKIM TAMIROFF , the only supporting player who seems the least bit authentic . The story is almost non-existent , a minor trifle in which it's pretty obvious that the California fishing community has been filmed on studio soundstages at MGM with the actors often photographed against location shots filmed in northern California's Monterey . Definitely a Victor Fleming film that hasn't dated well and many will find offensive in its racial stereotypes . It's a wonder J . CARROL NAISH didn't find his way into the suppporting cast . He would have been a lot more believable than casting actors like ALLEN JENKINS and CONNIE GILCHRIST as Chicanos . An almost unrecognizable FRANK MORGAN deserved his Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination as The Pirate , a lazy , dog-loving eccentric whom Tracy tricks into revealing the whereabouts of his money . He's in the film's most memorable sequence but most of the film is slow and talky to an irritating degree and filled with unsympathetic characters .
Daffy comedy puts Lucy in some highly improbable situations . . .	Personally , I've always felt that the best comedies were the ones where you could actually believe in the situations - - in other words , the events are things that could have happened . THE AFFAIRS OF ANNABEL is funny in spots , but hasn't got a single moment that is in touch with reality . JACK OAKIE plays a scheming publicity man who dreams up the most outrageous ways of getting attention ( newspaper headlines ) for his fading star LUCILLE BALL , her film career supposedly on the wane . One plan involves getting her to spend three days in prison ( which turns out to be 30 days ) and to have the press on hand when she's released . The plan backfires , of course , and Lucy fires him . She rehires him when he gets a little old lady ( LEONA ROBERTS , Mrs . Meade from GWTW ) , to pretend to be his sick mother who needs money for an operation . Lucy relents and he comes up with another scheme - - her next film is called " The Maid and the Man " so he gets her work as a maid in a wacky household . It turns out the house has become the nest for two infamous criminals and Lucy , of course , gets into the thick of things while Oakie tries to rescue her by hiring fake police officers to storm the house . It had possibilities but emerges as a scatterbrained comedy without any real foothold on reality . THURSTON HALL is fun as a plate breaking scientist and RUTH DONNELLY has a few good one-liners as a studio receptionist , but other than that the gags are pretty hard to swallow at times . Best that can be said is that LUCILLE BALL shows skill at this sort of comedy and looks pert and pretty throughout . OAKIE overplays the press agent with outlandish schemes but is fun to watch . If you love Lucy , you'll find this acceptable fare but lacking in so many departments .
Comic book adventures of Polo on a lavish B & W budget . . .	This is the film that cost LANA TURNER ( in a bit role ) her eyebrows which never grew back . Other than that , it has no distinction whatsoever except that it provides a nice comic book excursion into the past with lavish sets of Oriental splendor but little else for compensation . Still , it's watchable enough thanks to the low-key and quietly humorous performance of GARY COOPER ( an unlikely choice for the role of the Italian adventurer from Venice ) . It's also interesting to watch SIGRID GURIE , fascinating in close-ups with Hollywood's brand of Oriental make-up - - but an actress who never managed to be more than a passing fancy . BASIL RATHBONE adds the right touch of menace as Ahmed , the villain of the piece , and ALAN HALE brings his boisterous presence to the role of a man who was afraid of his lecherous wife ( BINNIE BARNES ) but not afraid to dispose of his enemies in boiling oil . It gets more laughable as it goes on , but reaches new heights of incredibility with an ending that has Polo making use of explosives to bring down the enemy camp . His final fight to the death with Rathbone , near an open trap door with hungry lions waiting below and vultures overhead , is the stuff of comic book suspense . If you can suspend all disbelief long enough to enjoy it , it passes the time quickly and entertainingly . A history lesson , it's not .
Horses , horses everywhere . . . and hardly a story in sight . . .	RONALD REAGAN must have enjoyed his role in STALLION ROAD as a veterinarian . He spends most of his time on horses , as does his leading lady , ALEXIS SMITH , more tomboyish than usual and not the frozen ice princess she usually played . Not much plot development during the first half-hour , although it's obvious that city slicker novelist ZACHARY SCOTT is not going to wind up with Alexis . She has her eyes on Reagan from the start . It's not easy to care about the characters in this horse opera because none of them are well defined and there's so little going on at the start . Blame that on Stephen Longstreet . He wrote the screenplay from his novel of the same name . You know you're in trouble when the most exciting moment in the story is a high-jumping contest on horseback which Alexis wins against great odds . The balance of the story is involved with an anthrax outbreak which keeps Reagan busy tending to his horses . ZACHARY SCOTT wears a bored expression as the writer out of his element among horses , the kind of look he perfected in many a film , and this time it's understandable , although he does get some of the wittier lines in the script . PEGGY KNUDSEN has fun as Reagan's man-chasing neighbor with a catty dislike of rancher Alexis . Seems that she too is smitten with Reagan , who pays more attention to horses than women . If horses are your thing , you may enjoy this horse opera more than I did . Others beware - - it's strictly formula stuff . Reagan , in an uninteresting role , is more bland than usual as the doc .
Fontaine during her B-film early phase toiling in forgettable programmers . . .	At a time when Fontaine's sister had reached overnight stardom in ' 35's A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM and CAPTAIN BLOOD , JOAN FONTAINE was in the starlet phase of her early career at RKO . She was very pretty and showed a modest amount of talent , but nobody suspected that in a few short years she would come into her own as an actress . BLOND CHEAT is a pleasant enough programmer , designed to give Fontaine a chance to shine in a light romantic comedy . She has a role requiring her to be charming and coyly flirtatious with leading man DERRICK DE MARNEY , but the silly script is a bit much for anyone to deal with in credible fashion . Even CECIL KELLAWAY looks a bit foolish . Fontaine is part of a scheme with a pair of expensive earrings , sent to break up an impending marriage by crafty millionaire CECIL KELLAWAY . Of course we know the marriage plans won't go through as soon as Fontaine and De Marney fall in love . It's forgettable nonsense like this that kept Fontaine's career in low drive until she found more rewarding roles in the ' 40s .
City of Quebec celebrates a winter carnival during Mardi Gras . . .	Canadian CARNIVAL is a rather dry little B & W documentary highlighting a few of the escapades at a winter carnival in Quebec with random scenes of the various activities culminating in a fireworks display on the final day . Shown are French Canadian kids making up their own games on ice ; sled dogs racing to the finish line across snow and ice ; sleighs ( without jingle bells ) competing in a race ; a hockey match with a routine number of spills and thrills ; Irish / French folk dances ; Snow Queens ; and , to bring the spirit of Carnival to an end , a fireworks display that is less exciting in B & W than it would be in color , of course . In fact , it's the sort of winter documentary that would have looked much better if presented in color .
The natives are restless tonight . . .	And you'll spend a restless twenty-five minutes or so before HEDY LAMARR makes her spectacular entrance and says , in a tone she obviously thought would nail her half-breed , dark-skinned character , " I am Tondelayo . " For the remainder of my review , I'll quote the article I wrote on HEDY LAMARR for FILMS OF THE GOLDEN AGE magazine : " WHITE CARGO was the kind of film that seemed dated even then . The majority of reviewers found the entire melodrama old-fashioned and unconvincing . On the other hand , some viewers were , and still are , delighted by her campy performance as Tondelayo , who wreaks havoc at a British outpost in Africa . Even the sturdy cast of players headed by Walter Pidgeon , Richard Carlson and Reginald Owen , could not overcome the weak script and make the tale credible . Playing her entire role in an abbreviated sarong and dark body make-up , Hedy was still incredibly lovely . Of Tondelayo , she would later say , ' I thought with some interesting make-up , a sarong and some hip-swinging I would be a memorable nymphomaniac . ' Obviously , despite her intelligence , Hedy had a problem judging scripts . " Just let me conclude by saying that all of the performances are embarrisingly inept , the script is hopelessly full of clichés , and the direction allows everyone to overact in such melodramatic silent screen fashion that it's a wonder anyone had a reputation left after this foolishness was over - - including director Richard Thorpe who had better films in his future . Unless Hedy in dark make-up and sarong is enough to hold your interest , WHITE CARGO is better left among the dustbins of film memories .
Too bad it doesn't live up to its simple title . . .	Madcap screwball comedy doesn't get any madder than BOY MEETS GIRL which has JAMES CAGNEY and PAT O'BRIEN as two oddball screenwriters who play their annoying characters to the hilt . DICK FORAN plays an actor looking for a good story ( lots of luck ) , claiming he gets fan mail from a lot of people who can't even write ! FRANK McHUGH , RALPH BELLAMY and MARIE Wilson fill out the Warner contract players cast , all of them doing their usual schtick but with less funny results than usual . The script is nothing more than a fable about a Hollywood that never existed except as a playground for madness on a grand scale with all of the fast talking players caught up in an impossibly silly script about the search for a " new " story for Foran . Not much can be said for Cagney and O'Brien - - the ham is really overdone - - and even RALPH BELLAMY overdoes the role of the studio head who has three films in production and doesn't know what's going on . If you can stay with it through the first half-hour , this is your kind of screwball comedy . As for me , I had to tune out before it was over . Trivia note : A bright moment has Bellamy declaring : " Do you boys know you're making more money than the president of the United States ? "
Genial Joe E . Brown mugs his way through predictable baseball comedy . . .	While A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM was really Olivia de Havilland's first film , the studio in the meantime put her in ALIBI IKE which was released first - - so this gave the public their first view of her . She's a pretty ingenue here with just a hint of stardom about her . Joe E . Brown was very popular at the time and had already done a couple of baseball comedies . Apparently , his fans considered this Ring Lardner tale one of his best . I couldn't work up much enthusiasm for it , although I did find several scenes rather amusing . However , unless you're a die-hard fan of Joe E . Brown with an addiction for baseball , ALIBI IKE comes across more as a curiosity piece than anything else . The night baseball scenes came as a surprise to me . Brown does his usual genial job in the title role and obviously relishes the limelight . William Frawley plays a baseball manager and Ruth Donnelly has a brief role as Olivia's sister . Trivia note : Ruth Donnelly would join Olivia thirteen years later for 1948's THE SNAKE PIT , as a fellow inmate .
Tiresome Bergen-McCarthy short falls into so-so category . . .	Boring and poorly executed EDGAR BERGEN / CHARLIE McCARTHY short , in which Charlie is improbably being touted as a football hero who will be expelled from college unless he passes the next exam . What might have been a promising comedy short becomes terribly dull from the opening scene onward , without an ounce of wit in the script and with Charlie not looking quite the way he would once Bergen had polished and perfected his act in the ' 40s . Poor performances from the supporting cast doesn't help and the whole thing is quite forgettable with nary a genuine laugh in sight . My only reason for watching is that it's featured on the CAPTAIN BLOOD DVD as a short subject from Warner Bros .
Tiresome WWI romantic comedy / drama with William Boyd as the star . . .	Three carnival workers romance the same girl until WWI interferes with their plans . They join the Navy and the plot meanders all over the place with tiresome effect . WILLIAM BOYD ( later " Hopalong Cassidy " ) spouts his dialog in a slow-moving way , and ROBERT ARMSTRONG and JAMES GLEASON mug their way through some silly shenanigans as sailors looking for a good time . Boyd is the Chief Petty Officer who comes out of retirement to rejoin the service . GINGER ROGERS is the carnival gal who can't seem to decide whether to get serious about Boyd or not , until the finale . It's hopelessly contrived and full of hokey situations , dated dialog and interesting only for a glimpse of the Naval ships . Summing up : Totally unsatisfying from almost every standpoint .
Julie Harris whimpers and cries her way through " The Haunting " . . .	This is one horror story by Shirley Jackson that had a lot of potential for film . . . and with Robert Wise at the helm , it's a pity it's spoiled by several unpleasant ingredients . One of those ingredients is JULIE HARRIS , who is a woman with demons in her past who can't rid herself of them no matter how hard others try to help her . Another is the lesbian theme that occurs midway . And finally , the whole story is done in a very understated way which leaves a lot up to the imagination of the viewer . This worked for films like THE UNINVITED and THE INNOCENTS , but here it just falls flat as a pancake . The horror is dissolved by an irritating central performance from Miss Harris , usually such a fine actress . CLAIRE BLOOM , RICHARD JOHNSON and RUSS TAMBLYN are part of a team sent to investigate the supernatural happenings at Hill House . The horror inherent in such a tale never quite gets as gripping as it should despite Wise's direction and some fairly good performances . Far more substantial , and equally understated in the horror department , are films like those mentioned above . This one leaves me cold and is much overrated by horror fans .
Insufferable brat is more like it . . .	BONITA GRANVILLE specialized in playing brattish kid sister roles throughout most of the ' 30s ( when she wasn't playing Nancy Drew ) , and this is one of her more insufferable roles as a rich brat given to tossing dinner trays out the window when in a huff . She plays the neglected daughter of DONALD CRISP , only instead of pouting the way Shirley Temple would do under these " dire " circumstances , Bonita takes a feistier approach , talking back to the house servants and refusing to eat her spinach with much more vehemence than Shirley ever showed . She befriends a black boy , only because he promises to teach her how to use his rifle . LEO GORCEY turns up as another unlikely companion for the poor little rich girl and from then on the film becomes pretty unwatchable as Bonita is taught a thing or two about changing her snobbish ways . By the time the plot gets any thicker , Bonita has totally lost the patience of her parents as well as the viewer . Too bad Warner Bros . couldn't come up with better scripts for their child star instead of casting her in these insipid programmers that are enough to wear anyone's patience . Any resemblance to the real world is purely coincidental . Trivia note : The script was written by Jean Negulesco , who later made a much better director than screenwriter .
I like Hitchcock but this one is not my cup of tea . . .	Two grifters inadvertently come into contact with each other when one pair ( BARBARA HARRIS , BRUCE DERN ) is on assignment to find a missing heir and their detective work leads them to two other more deadly serious grifters ( WILLIAM DEVANE , KAREN BLACK ) who are jewel thieves and kidnappers . That's about the basic plot premise of this Alfred Hitchcock comedy-thriller which never quite gels . None of the leads have the charisma to carry a film and - - it being Hitchcock's last when he was in ill health - - you have to wonder whether the master himself was simply not up to the job . It's a mixed bag of plot elements thrown together with comic moments and occasional bits of suspense , but none of it is anything you're going to remember after seeing the plot unwind , unlike other Hitchcock films that stay with you for a long while . Unless you must see every Hitchcock film , this one can rest in its vault where it belongs in a plot of its own gathering dust .
Witless and dismal Hal Roach short with Todd and Kelly . . .	These early Hal Roach shorts were on very wobbly ground . First of all , the scripts were entirely witless , not even up to the standards of early comedy sketches on TV in the late ' 40s and early ' 50s . Lacking any subtlety or wit , this one has an overly enthusiastic THELMA TODD declaring love for a worthless man who kisses her hand and convinces her that he's a dashing knight with money . PATSY KELLY is her slovenly maid who sees through the whole thing and takes an instant dislike to Todd's suitor . In a series of unfunny scenes , the match goes from bad to worse , ending in a nightclub where the guy allows Kelly and Todd to order a fancy meal knowing he can't pay the check . He has the last laugh . Maybe this was funny back in the Depression days , but now it's just downright depressing and the material is all very dated .
Domestic comedy / drama is weak material from the ' 30s . . .	IRENE DUNNE may have had a blossoming film career that led to much better things in the ' 40s , but her early ' 30s films were potboilers and this sophisticated comedy among the idle rich is one of them . It's a thin comedy about a catty woman who threatens the happiness of IRENE DUNNE and RALPH BELLAMY , coming between them to the point where Dunne is all ready to sue for divorce until the woman ( CONSTANCE CUMMINGS ) turns to SIDNEY BLACKMER for her marriage partner . The script is full of catty one-liners but none of it is worthy of Dunne's presence . She did much better with screwball comedy material that came later . A serious waste of time with a weak first half-hour that only picks up steam when Constance Cummings enters the scene . Ralph Bellamy is a bore as a bumbling husband in one of his rare leading man roles . Summing up : Only for serious Irene Dunne fans .
Barbara never looked more glamorous , even facing a " Camille-like " situation . . .	Women's films , as they were called in the ' 40s , seldom offered a star a more glamorous way of leaving this world than THE OTHER LOVE , with BARBARA STANWYCK checking herself into a Swiss sanitarium to be treated for tuberculosis and promptly falling in love with her young doctor , David NIVEN against a background of Alpine beauty . Stanwyck has got to be the healthiest patient in Hollywood history and she gets even more glamorous as she moves toward impending doom . So does the music by Miklos Rozsa . And as if one leading man isn't enough , the script has her leaving the safety ( and boredom ) of the clinic to go chasing after a tough motorcyclist ( RICHARD CONTE ) for one last fling . It's syrupy romance straight from the pages of a Cosmopolitan magazine story - - but no , in this case , straight from the pages of a novel by Erich Maria Remarque , who gave the world ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT , but also turkeys like ARCH OF TRIUMPH . Stanwyck's fans will be too busy admiring her wardrobe to view the plot with any skepticism at all , but others might find it just a little too pat and contrived , even for this genre of pulp romance .
Average B-film programmer fails to live up to its potential . . .	For a film that deals with an interesting subject like fake mediums , this ' 34 mystery / comedy fails to hit the mark . It's not particularly impressive as a mystery and the comedy is on the weak side . It's a B-film programmer with ZASU PITTS and SLIM SUMMERVILLE providing the comic relief while others carry the straight plot line . Pitts and Summerville play WILLIAM GAXTON's assistants in a magic act where he bills himself as The Great La Salle . BRUCE CABOT hires them to take part in a fake seance at a wealthy woman's home where a young woman has been receiving messages from a dead husband . RALPH MORGAN is suspected of being a swindler trying to deceive the woman at her swanky home on Long Island . Unfortunately , ZASU PITTS is saddled with a ditzy role beyond belief . And to make matters worse , nobody else in the cast has lines that are any smoother or wittier . " Not a very friendly fellow , " says Gaxton . " About as friendly as a rattlesnake , " says Summerville . That gives you an idea of the wit and sophistication . The suspense , of course , lies in finding out how the fake seance will go and who the real culprits are in the household . Not hard to guess the predictable outcome . Summing up : A clumsy mystery / comedy hardly worth bothering about .
Implausible comedy strains to be believable but has a certain charm . . .	There's a lot to like in THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS but I find the basic premise completely unbelievable . BEN CHAPLIN is a handsome man who is fooled into thinking that the radio personality he's impressed by is really her blonde neighbor ( UMA THURMAN ) , enough so that he falls in love with Thurman until he finds out the two women have been playing a deceptive trick on him . He broods about it for awhile before deciding that he really loves the plain Jane for her brains and whatever pearls of wisdom she expressed when they first met . It's really a stretch to think that Chaplin would settle for the unattractive gal after smooching it up with Thurman at every opportunity . Despite the weak premise , it's played with style and wit and emerges , overall , as a pleasant escapist kind of comedy . Unfortunately , it's not convincing enough in sending the message it tries to make . Most charming aspect of the film is the performance of BEN CHAPLIN as the bewitched and befuddled guy .
Another " Dogville " short that humanizes dogs wearing costumes . . .	Some may find these shorts hilarious , but after the first few minutes it's clear that the dogs are being manipulated to assume the poses of animals talking to each other like humans , walking around on their hind legs and wearing costumes appropriate for the " characters " they're supposed to be playing . It's funny and amusing but hardly what I would call hilarious . The word " stilted " is more like it - - because it's all so obviously staged that the dogs seem more like puppets being led about by invisible strings . Having said that , if FRANCIS , THE TALKING MULE is your style of entertainment , you may fall over laughing at this nonsense . The dogs say grace at the table , fix a flat tire , go wild at a department store remnant sale , model clothes , cope with a crooked boss , and our hero and his girlfriend are separated when the boss pins a crime on the boy dog so that he can win the affection of the girl . After spending some time at the penitentiary , where some dogs are seen doing hard labor in jail clothes , the girl dog comes to the rescue and gets her boyfriend saved in time to avoid going to the chair for his crime . Says one dog to another when sampling jail food : " It ain't fit for a dog ! " Hilarius ? It depends .
Nothing subtle here - - a relentless shouting match from ham actors . . .	I can't join in the praise for JOHN BARRYMORE's overly hammy performance of Oscar Jaffe in Howard Hawk's screen version of the Broadway hit , TWENTIETH CENTURY . I was almost expecting Groucho Marx and the Marx Brothers to turn up at any moment , the farce is so forced and frantic once Barrymore and CAROLE LOMBARD launch into their tirades . Director Howard Hawks evidently never chose to tone down the performances by Barrymore and Lombard , both of whom are guilty of some excruciating overacting , whether intentional or not . At least some praise can go to the supporting cast , especially ROSCOE KARNS and WALTER CONNOLLY , who seem almost restrained compared to the two stars . Another welcome bit of restraint comes from RALPH FORBES as a would be suitor rebuffed by Lombard . Definitely not the sort of comedy I'd be tempted to view again . The only amusing aspect was the eccentric asylum inmate who pinned his " Repent " messages everywhere and gave Barrymore the impression that he was wealthy enough to back his play . That , at least , was worth a chuckle or two .
Somber tale is too low-key to maintain interest . . .	It must have seemed like a good idea to reunite Joseph COTTEN and VALLI as co-stars in a darkly lit , low-key drama about a man who is a born loser , a lot like Uncle Charlie of " Shadow of a Doubt " - - the kind of intense character that Cotten always seemed to play . And they were wonderful as the stars of " The Third Man " . But his intensity here is not quite as striking - - in fact , he's so mellow that when he meets VALLI and decides he needs to use her to further his goal of being seen as an upright citizen in a small town , her melancholy bitterness and his restraint doesn't provide enough conflict to maintain interest . Nor is it helpful that SPRING BYINGTON is her usual cheery self , totally charmed by the stranger in town who seems like such a nice , harmless guy who needs a good job . She and PAUL STEWART are effective enough in supporting roles , but nothing really helps . The script is dull , the characters lack chemistry and the denouement leaves the viewer unsatisfied with the whole thing . Made before " The Third Man " but released a year or so later , it tried to capitalize on the names ( Cotten and Valli ) , but was quickly relegated to the status of an A-film that looked more like a B and did nothing for their respective careers . Summing up : Trivial film is easily forgotten - - nothing new here and it's not film noir at all , as someone else has suggested .
Another unnecessary re-make of a classic Irene Dunne / Cary Grant film . . .	I can't work up much enthusiasm for this uninspired remake of MY FAVORITE WIFE from the screwball era of comedy in the 1930s . They should have let the dust settle when the first attempt starring MARILYN MONROE and DEAN MARTIN ( with CYD CHARISSE as the other woman ) was shut down because of Monroe's death . This was re-worked to suit DORIS DAY and JAMES GARNER , and while it's not terrible , it's not terribly good either . It's the old one about the missing wife who was shipwrecked on a desert island for years with another man , who turns up trying to resume her life with hubby but discovers he's engaged to another woman . Day and Garner are old hands at this sort of thing , and yet the sparkle seems to be missing due to some non too witty lines and ridiculously overplayed situations ( as in the car wash scene ) . It's just passable as comedy - - not one of the best from Doris Day and certainly Garner has had better roles elsewhere . POLLY BERGEN has the thankless task of being disagreeable which she carries off to perfection . THELMA RITTER was funnier in other broad comedy roles . Summing up : Not worth the round trip .
Second in series of tall tales from Robert Ripley's " Believe It Or Not " series . . .	Ripley takes the stand in a make-believe courtroom to testify that his tall tales are all true , under grilling of a persistent prosecutor . Among them : The Star Bangled Banner is not America's National Anthem but instead is based on a British drinking song with the exact same melody . The Statue of Liberty was built atop a military prison , which is the ground it stands on . He explains how 62 people flew over the Atlantic before Charles Lindberg - - most of them in a dirigible . And how a boy stricken with a strange disease aged very suddenly and died in the form of an old man at seven years of age . ( Brings to mind the current film , THE STRANGE CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON in which the reverse was true ) . And finally , how a man held his arm over his head for a period of ten years ( which has got to be some kind of record ) - - so long , he says , that birds built a nest in his hand ! Another odd entry in the Ripley series - - but what did you expect ? Summing up : Not done with much style and clearly an oddity from the past .
John Carroll in early dual role as Zorro in Republic serial . . .	This was typical Saturday afternoon serial stuff from Republic with the script reduced to good vs . bad shootouts , this time involving a crooked man ( NOAH BEERY ) who wants to take over a railroad and will stop at nothing ( including bombs and derailments ) to get his way . Only thing stopping him is our man Zorro ( JOHN CARROLL ) who dons the mask whenever he has to get down to business . The episodes I watched were three of the earlier episodes ( # 3 , 4 and 5 ) where the villains open a derailment switch and almost trap Zorro before he can release his foot caught between closing tracks as a train approaches . He uses a unique way of getting out of the situation . Lots of scenes with the villains using the wireless to contact each other as Zorro overhears their plans . HELEN Christian and REED HOWES are two of the most bland performers in the history of serials , judging from their work in this serial . Christian has the femme lead and she almost disappears while talking . Carroll is okay as Zorro using his slight Spanish accent and looking boyishly young before he made it to better films as a featured player . Something only the kiddies could really love - - standard serial stuff .
I was never a Marion Davies fan so you may find my review biased . . .	Growing up , all I ever knew about MARION DAVIES was that she was the protégé and mistress of William Randolph Hearst and there were rumors galore that Orson Welles based his CITIZEN KANE on the relationship between the real life newspaper magnate and an untalented actress by the name of Marion Davies . When finally I did get to see a few films of Marion Davies , I remained unimpressed by her so-called " talent " as a comedienne that others refer to . Only one of her pictures , THE RED MILL , even made a favorable impression on me . The rest were mired in old-fashioned acting techniques and staging that belonged more to the silent period than " talkies " . In other words , I never warmed up to Miss Davies as an actress . In sound films , there's certainly nothing special about her speaking voice or her appearance and whatever talent she had seemed minimal to me . Still curious , I viewed the documentary to get a better overall view of the woman and her career and to see whether I would come away with a better impression . I didn't . They say she was the forerunner of the sort of beautiful , funny comedienne that Carole Lombard was . Well , I'll take Carole any day - - both as an actress and comedienne . I'm still left with the impression that MARION DAVIES was a mediocre screen personality with minimal talent and find it difficult to believe that people are talking about her as if she was a truly dazzling comic talent . I just don't see it that way . And the documentary itself is a disjointed thing - - full of film clips , still photos , audio voice-over of Davies expressing thoughts about herself and her career ( bad recordings ) , and a few remarks by people like RUTH WARRICK and CONSTANCE MOORE that bear no more weight than feathers .
A bugle boy needs $2 to buy a horn . . . forgettable trifle from the ' 40s . . .	Harmless short subject from the ' 40s has a bugle boy story as inspiration when a black boy wants to buy a horn from a pawn shop but needs an extra $2 to cement the deal . When WALTER CATLETT and SAM LEVENE hear him actually play the horn , they think they've discovered a goldmine and offer the kid a lucrative contract . But it turns out , he only wants to get the two dollars so he can play the horn before joining the army the next day . As the end credits say : " He only loved two things - - his horn and his country ! " Film ends on a flag-waving note as the boy plays the bugle while we see a montage of soldiers training and in battle . This is the sort of cornball exercise in propaganda that audiences probably accepted in the early ' 40s but today's viewers will be a bit baffled by it .
Quaint but somewhat stifled by old-fashioned style . . .	HELEN HAYES indeed made a stage name for herself in this vehicle , but it's hard to see why in this film version of her stage success . BRIAN AHERNE does nicely as her somewhat stuffy husband , but all in all it's clearly aimed at pleasing the followers of Miss Hayes . She photographs well as the supposedly plain heroine and her Scottish accent is never too jarring - - and thankfully , she downplays a lot of her stage mannerisms with a style of acting more suited to the camera . But this tale of a little woman who is really the brains behind her non too bright politically minded husband , is a very modest effort from the pen of Sir James M . Barrie and there is no big payoff for anyone in the cast . Madge Evans has a rather thankless role as the other woman . Donald Crisp and Lucille Watson have the most to do in supporting roles but have distinguished themselves elsewhere in better material . Only interesting as an early Helen Hayes vehicle that seems more quaint than charming . As in most films of this period , there is almost no background music to give a lift to any of the stagebound scenes . Trivia bit : Olivia de Havilland starred at the Westport Country Playhouse in this play - - summer stock in 1946 - - and during the run of the play was married to first husband , writer Marcus Goodrich .
Billy Gilbert steals comedy short . . .	YOU'RE TELLING ME is a ' 32 comedy short that is decidedly dated in concept and performance - - but at least BILLY GILBERT ( the rotund comedian famous for his sneezing - - he was the voice for Sneezy in " Snow White and the Seven Dwards " ) , makes the whole short worth watching . He does his famous stint as a much put upon father of GORDON DOUGLAS ( who became a Warner Bros . director in later years ) . It's a good thing Douglas turned to directing . He's certainly no actor . The thin plot has GORDON DOUGLAS , GRADY SUTTON and MICKEY DANIELS , all college boys , spending time with Douglas ' family . From the start , everything goes wrong at a party for Douglas and Billy Gilbert is in for a raw deal . The worst things happen to him until the slapstick finale when everyone gets cake in the face ( instead of pie ) ! Silly and sophomoric and as dated as can be .
Russian love story not in the " Dr . Zhivago " class . . .	There's a heavy dose of Russian music and quaint customs in WE LIVE AGAIN , but it's a dull affair under the direction of Rouben Mamoulian . FREDRIC MARCH is a Russian officer in love with a peasant girl . Their affair leads to her pregnancy which ends with the death of the child while March is away unaware of the circumstances his sweetheart ( ANNA STEN ) has undergone . The screenplay cuts away from these circumstances but we can only assume she becomes a " fallen woman . " What starts out as light hearted romance turns into a turgid melodrama as Sten suffers and suffers for her sins . She's sent to Siberia for five years by an overbearing judge ( C . AUBREY SMITH ) and the overly melodramatic ending has March wanting to repent for his sins by joining her in Siberia for the duration of her sentence . It's pretty heavy going with both March and Sten doing their best to make it look like a decent drama . The supporting cast includes JESSIE RALPH , ETHEL GRIFFIES and , in a very small role , SAM JAFFE . Summing up : Easy to forget .
Dull screwball comedy never misses a cliché . . .	Only faithful fans of MIRIAM HOPKINS or JOEL McCREA could possibly want to sit through this screwball comedy full of impossible situations and banal dialog . Fast talking Hopkins is an architect ( c'mon , that's what it says ) full of pep talk when she schemes her way into CHARLES WINNINGER's office to sell him on her wonderful housing designs . ( How many times has Winninger played a daffy millionaire in ' 30s endless parade of screwball comedies ? ? ? ) . He admits the plans look great - - but the hitch is he's no longer a millionaire having lost all his money on crazy schemes . But wait . He's got a son ( JOEL McCREA ) , more sensible than him who's got lots of money . All it's going to take is for someone ( like Miriam maybe ? ) to separate him from it so they can go ahead with her plans to make Hopkins and Winninger rich . That's about it for starters . But it gets even sillier once Winninger takes her to his home ( after she's fainted a couple of times because the poor thing hasn't eaten in 49 hours ) . And once ERIC RHODES , BRODERICK CRAWFORD and ELLA LOGAN enter the scene , it gets sillier and more improbable with each dubious remark . Hopkins is photographed attractively and puts a lot of spirit into playing a ditsy architect , but it's obvious from the start that this is not going to go down as one of the best screwball comedies of the ' 30s - - not by a long stretch . Winninger seems to be doing a warm-up for his other millionaire role in HARD TO GET ( ' 38 ) , again involved with an architect ( DICK POWELL ) and the scatterbrained daughter ( OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND ) who wants to get revenge on Powell for his mistreatment of her . He spent a lot of time in the ' 30s and ' 40s playing daffy millionaires who ruled over nutsy , filthy rich households . Summing up : Not worth a peek .
Pleasant but forgettable MGM programmer gives Lundigan the spotlight . . .	Sunday PUNCH was a B-film that played the lower half of double bills when released in 1942 , pleasant enough fluff that was only passable as entertainment even then . But fans of WILLIAM LUNDIGAN got to see him in a starring role for a change and pretty JEAN ROGERS got a chance to show that she was someone to watch even if her career never got into high gear . She's photographed with beautiful , glossy MGM close-ups , the kind usually reserved for their top stars , but none of the familiar material here is up to the standards of an A-film . Not even with a supporting cast that includes GUY KIBBE , CONNIE GILCHRIST , LEO GORCEY , SAM LEVENE and , in an unusual character role as a Norwegian janitor who wants to become a fighter , DAN DAILEY ( billed as Dan Dailey , Jr . ) , as a guy who has a " Sunday punch " as his ticket to a boxing career . The fight scenes are standard stuff and neither Lundigan nor Dailey looks as though they could go more than two rounds in an actual fight . Summing up : A pleasant enough trifle , but nothing to get excited about .
Wyman and Reagan in a Warner short subject on golf . . .	Not being a golf enthusiast , I can only say this one is a real yawner with RONALD REAGAN and JANE WYMAN ( then happily married ) getting golf tips from professionals Jimmy Thompson and Jack Redmond , showing them how to make long drives and trick shots , respectively . Photographed in color , it shows Reagan and Wyman looking healthy and sporting California tans but other than whatever interest fans might have in gaping at them on the golf course , there's nothing special here to keep the interest from waning . Definitely a short subject that must have bored a lot of theater fans back in ' 42 . Uninspired .
No substance but Sagan's story has lots of style . . .	Here's a film that's boosted by its spectacular scenic splendor and a lovely title tune , A CERTAIN SMILE , sung by Johnny Mathis and immediately becoming one of his favorite hit tunes , which is about the only thing that will linger in your memory once the tawdry tale is over . The simple story is a trifle ( as all of Francoise Sagan's novels are ) , dealing as it does with the subject of flirtation and affairs . The affair is between a pretty young law student studying at the Sorbonne , CHRISTINE CARRERE , and ROSSANO BRAZZI , her Uncle Luc who is married to the sophisticated JOAN FONTAINE . Christine is also being pursued by a fellow law student , BRADFORD DILLMAN , but seems to prefer Brazzi's continental charm to callow youth . Most of the trite story centers on the budding romance between Brazzi and Carrere , leaving Fontaine on the sidelines wondering what the glances between the two really mean . Does it really matter ? She gazes with sophisticated charm at Johnny Mathis as he sings " A Certain Smile " , all the while knowing that her husband is a philanderer . It really has nothing new to say , but can be enjoyed on the basis of its CinemaScope grandeur and the performances of the leads , all of whom have done better work elsewhere and are pretty much wasted here .
Russell gets the " Private Benjamin " treatment in wacky comedy . . .	When ROSALIND RUSSELL wasn't doing heavy emoting in films like MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRA , she was doing wacky comedies like NEVER WAVE AT A WAC and proving that she had comic flair even in sub-standard material . This is a forerunner of the " Private Benjamin " type of service story - - or the " See Here Private Hargrove " type of thing , where a disgruntled serviceman ( or woman ) finds life in the Army rough going when given some deliberately hectic chores to do . MARIE Wilson is another unlikely recruit who's fighting off advances from an overeager sergeant , LEIF ERICKSON . The gags are fast and furious but not too original as Russell is given some challenging assignments by PAUL DOUGLAS , as the man who eventually wins her heart . None of it is very convincing and Russell certainly had better opportunities in other smarter comedies during the ' 30s and ' 40s . Passes the time , but not really worth watching unless you're a Russell fan .
Another Warner B-film makes it to TCM . . .	A fired talent agent ( DONALD WOODS ) promotes an aspiring actress / singer to stardom . Where have you heard that one before ? Woods is the brash , fast-talking agent ( a departure from his usual placid roles ) , and Jeanne Madden is the girl he goes to great pains to promote . Frankly , Miss Madden is a singer with a not so spectacular voice and nothing about her suggests future stardom . But it's the kind of plot Warner Bros . seemed to dust off occasionally in the future , with sparkling results . ( Think MY DREAM IS YOURS with Doris Day , Jack Carson and Eve Arden or IT'S A GREAT FEELING , again with Day and Carson ) . ROBERT PAIGE has a small role as a studio executive and FRED LAWRENCE does a nice job as the studio's matinée idol . But it's strictly a trifle nicely played by DONALD WOODS but ill served by a lackluster leading lady .
Buster Keaton and Anita Page in early sound film trifle . . .	BUSTER KEATON and ANITA PAGE are saddled with some lame dialog and tacky situations in this hokey comedy about an aspiring beauty contest winner ( Page ) who travels to Hollywood with her mother in hope of becoming America's next motion picture sweetheart . It's a look at early Hollywood and for that reason alone it's fairly entertaining . ROBERT MONTGOMERY is featured as Larry Mitchell , a movie star who takes an interest in Page after a chance meeting on the train to Hollywood . Keaton is his usual bumbling self but the script is a mess with dialog that is painfully unfunny . Nobody can really save the comedy / musical from being way less than ordinary . Keaton with stilted lines is less funny than when he's pantomiming it up in silent films . Robert Montgomery is dubbed for a couple of awkward musical numbers , all done in the early style of MGM talkies before a word like " finesse " could be assigned to them . The tinny sound recording is no help . Best excuse for watching is to see how things improved rapidly in the late thirties and forties , but this one has to be regarded as strictly a curiosity piece for fans of Buster Keaton and early sound films . Painfully unfunny in an amateurish kind of way for a film from MGM . Interesting only for a glimpse of early Hollywood pioneering .
Wartime musical waves patriotism and swings some music . . .	Built around a thin plot which serves as an excuse to parade a bunch of then current pop bands , singers and comedy acts , this little programmer from Columbia spotlights ANN MILLER in the central role as a disc jockey who directs her show at the U . S . Armed Services . She gets involved with two young soldiers - - WILLIAM WRIGHT ( who resembles John Carroll ) and DICK PURCELL , has frequent disagreements with her radio boss , and ends up as the feature attraction in a service show where she displays her tap-dancing skills . The plot , almost non-existent , serves as a prop to show some of the performers whose records she plays for the soldiers - - including Count Basie , Duke Wellington , Frank Sinatra , Bob Crosby , The Radio Rogues and The Mills Brothers . In a strictly subordinate role is LARRY PARKS , only a few years away from stardom in " The Jolson Story " , but here a virtual unknown as a fellow soldier . IRENE RYAN has a small role as a ditsy secretary . The acts are standard stuff , except for singer FRANK SINATRA who does a standout job on " Night and Day " and performs before the camera with remarkable ease and poise a few years before becoming a major film star . Pleasant WWII musical gets a lift from the musical numbers , but it's strictly second-rate as a substantial musical .
Depressing Vitaphone short about the Great Depression era . . .	Awkwardly staged short subject has SYLVIA SIDNEY pleading with her husband's boss to give him the promotion he so richly deserves - - after a disastrous dinner which goes wrong in every possible way . While this serves as a reminder of hard times during the Great Depression , it's hardly a memorable short subject . The dialog is as awkward as the staging with none of the actors at their best . SYLVIA SIDNEY is passable as the distraught wife , a role she would go on to play in countless other films , but she can't save the short from being impossibly dull . LYNNE OVERMAN as her husband is convincing enough but the whole project was doomed from the start with a lifeless script . Summing up : An early talkie is a depressing look at hard times .
Another " Saint " story that suffers from low-budget and Hugh Sinclair . . .	This entry begins with an intriguing opening - - a man is found dead on Simon's doorstep and immediately Simon calls an inspector who , as usual , suspects Simon is holding out and knows more than he cares to reveal about the murder of a well-known bookie . Inspector Teal also has a confrontational moment with Simon's innocent butler . " But I don't know anything , " says Simon's butler . " If you say that again , I'll arrest you on suspicion . " Simon refers to his butler as a man who " sees the world through crime-colored glasses . " The attempts at humor are as dull as the script . Unfortunately , HUGH SINCLAIR as " The Saint " , has none of the charisma of either a George Sanders or a Tom Conway , which is a huge drawback and JEAN GILLIE is so-so as the romantic interest . Her instant dislike of Simon is a bit overdone . " I didn't recognize you without your halo , " she tells him by way of apology . Nothing much happens that hasn't happened in a dozen other " Saint " movies as Simon attempts to find stolen gold and expose a crime boss called The Tiger . " Crooks work in the most select circles these days , " he says , on the trail of gold thieves , while he moves through upper crust society . Once again , Inspector Teal comes close to arresting Simon for murder in a cat-and-mouse game . All the other familiar ingredients are here too , with Simon making escapes from the bad guys in incredible fashion . But I was already weary of the plot by the time it got to the smuggler's cave of gold . The revelation of The Tiger is only a modest surprise . Summing up : Moves quickly , but only moderately satisfying for " Saint " fans .
A hodge-podge of stale routines brightened by those chocolate soldiers . . .	For film buffs , this one has real curiosity value . There are plenty of reasons for today's fans to be turned off by the poorly staged musical interludes - - but movie buffs will appreciate seeing Lupe Velez , The Three Stooges , Laurel & Hardy , Mickey Mouse and Jimmy Durante all doing their best to liven things up . The script is a mess and somebody came up with the idea of having all the creaky episodes turn out to be a dream that Jimmy Durante wakes up from for the final scene , a device that may have been well ahead of its time . Durante is his old irrepressible self but the highlight of the film is when he interacts with an animated Mickey Mouse , who then proceeds to steal the film by introducing a color short from Disney called " Hot Chocolate Soldiers " . The cartoon sequence is the only valid reason for paying attention at this point . Amusing , clever and maybe astonishing is the word when you consider Disney made this little color cartoon in 1934 , before his studio was capable of the kind of stuff they did later on . Well worth watching for Mickey alone !
Sarah Brightman in full command of her lyric soprano . . .	I have nothing but admiration for the quality of SARAH BRIGHTMAN's high soprano voice , but have less complimentary things to say about her stage presence ( she looks like a frightened fawn with staring eyes and awkward hand gestures ) . Surely , she is someone who has spent a great deal of money on coaches and someone could certainly have pointed out that her limited gestures and unchanging expression ( no matter what song she sings ) detract from the luster of her singing voice . She appears to be humble and modest about her own talent , however , and this does come through - - also , she appreciates those who were enormously helpful in her career , such as ANDREW LLOYD WEBBER , who joins her in one rather brief segment at the piano while she sings his show tune , " Whistle Down the Wind " . And , of course , she does a brilliant vocal job on his songs from PHANTOM OF THE OPERA . She also joins forces with ANDREA BOCELLI in a couple of duets , does a fine job on " Les Filles de Cadiz " ( one of my favorite songs for soprano voice ) , and does some compelling work on numbers from WEST SIDE STORY . But the overall effect is offset by her lackluster and very one-dimensional stage presence - - which must have been somewhat a handicap when she played Christine opposite Michael Crawford in PHANTOM OF THE OPERA . At least there , her frightened expression made more sense . . . but it was Crawford who won all the awards and stole the show . Nor is it possible to close without remarking that her enunciation of words is hindered by the pear-shaped tones she produces so diligently . Most of her words , however , are obscured .
Dreary , empty and depressing version of Remarque's novel . . .	INGRID BERGMAN's immense popularity during the ' 40s was the only factor to save this film from instant oblivion . It was a huge box-office failure , but nobody blamed Bergman who still looked luminous despite her deadly dull assignment opposite CHARLES BOYER , as the protagonist facing deportment during World War II's Nazi reign . All the ingredients that seemed to make ARCH OF TRIUMPH into a " must see " film were there . First , it's from a novel by Erich Maria Remarque who gave the world ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT . Then the cast included Bergman , Boyer , CHARLES LAUGHTON and LOUIS CALHERN . Then , it was directed by Lewis Milestone and released in time to be considered for Oscar nominations . Alas , there were none and it opened to humiliating reviews . It's a deadly dull affair between Boyer's refugee and Bergman's lady of the night and whatever interest the story might have had is made tedious by the slow funeral pace of the story with its dimly lit exteriors and interiors . It's a thin story without much significance and it's shabby as a piece of entertainment . Not even the great Charles Laughton can save it , his role is so obscure in the scheme of things . Not worth seeing unless you must see every film Ingrid made . She and Boyer were paired much more successfully in GASLIGHT four years earlier . Trivia note : The film's running time was slashed after terrible reviews but restored to 131 minutes for arhival prints .
This potboiler is a poor man's " Petrified Forest " . . .	If you can get over the unlikely pairing of ALINE MacMAHON and PRESTON FOSTER as former lovers and stand the desert heat at a motor court stranded in the middle of nowhere , you may be able to accept some of the melodramatics of HEAT LIGHTNING . Nevertheless , I have to agree with The N . Y . Times when it summed it up as : " Drab melodrama with occasional flashes of forced comedy . " The forced comedy is supplied by RUTH DONNELLY and GLENDA FARRELL as two rich dames being chauffeured by FRANK McHUGH , and in an early scene , JANE DARWELL and EDGAR KENNEDY as a bickering married couple who stop by for car repair and a coke . Otherwise , it's pretty dreary stuff , with Foster trying to con McMahon and her sister ( ANN DVORAK ) out of some money in their safe . The downbeat ending only emphasizes the dreariness of the plot which seems to go nowhere fast .
A pale , lifeless version of the original . . . a sequel that never should have happened . . .	The only spark of life left in RETURN TO PEYTON PLACE is MARY ASTOR as Roberta Carter , ironically , a character who had no screen time in the original film five years previously . Her sassy , confrontational arguments with the denizens of Peyton Place provide the only juicy and convincing moments in the whole film . In every other respect , this is about as poor a sequel as could be expected from the original PEYTON PLACE which had several Oscar nominations to its credit , including Best Picture . Why Jerry Wald gave the green light to this production is something that has always baffled me . The script is a complete mess and the casting is only adequate without a shred of inspiration as to any of the players . Even such wonderful people as ELEANOR PARKER and ROBERT STERLING have to cope with the weakest sort of material , while CAROL LYNLEY and TUESDAY WELD fail to make any deep impression in their mainline roles . The only holdover from the original seems to be Franz Waxman's lovely score with his main theme giving the audience hope that something approaching the original is about to happen . No such luck . Sequels get their bad names from films like this . The extensive fire sequence was filmed , then scrapped , but turns up only in the DVD trailers for the film . The story ends now with Astor getting her comeuppance from the townspeople who turn a cold shoulder to her after she's exposed as the harridan she is . Too bad Astor's performance is wasted in a bad film .
Tepid melodrama seems quaint by today's standards . . .	At the time of release , THE ACCUSED was probably considered a daring story for Hollywood to tackle - - a teacher about to be assaulted by a student kills him rather than being subjected to rape . The prim schoolteacher is played by LORETTA YOUNG with all her virginal modesty bolstered by wearing her hair in a bun with Peter Pan collars adorning her neckline . Rather than confess to her crime , she tries to conceal it from the prying eyes of detective WENDELL COREY and lawyer friend ROBERT CUMMINGS . Both of these actors have given stronger performances in other films but apparently neither one had their interest in these roles heightened by a lackluster script . Slowly , the film tries to build suspense until a final courtroom scene , but by that time the tale has lost a lot of its credibility and the characters are so poorly etched that you won't care that much about the outcome . Young is as pretty as ever but her role has no depth and what should have been a taut exercise in suspense has been turned into a mushy romantic drama rather than a gripping film noir .
Brando at his most eccentric in odd western from Arthur Penn . . .	Never thought I would see the day when JACK NICHOLSON was upstaged by another actor , but that's what we get in THE MISSOURI BREAKS , an odd western directed by Arthur Penn that teamed the two icons for the first and only time . If you like your westerns in a more conventional mode , you can forget this one . It comes just about at the breaking point in Brando's career where he was more often seen in cameo roles than leading man parts , and the film itself was savaged by the critics . Actually , it's standard western material with good vs . evil but everything is twisted for the sake of eccentricities of either the script or the actors themselves . Definitely not the sort of western John Ford would direct , nor does the John Williams score accommodate it the way Ennio Morricone's music would for the Clint Eastwood spaghetti westerns . " A gunfighter protects the herd from a rustler " is the simple outline on which the film is built . After a young horse rustler is hanged , the story opens with the gang informing JACK NICHOLSON about the incident and the gang plots on how to go about keeping their activities away from the law . Unfortunately , the mulling over what to do is written in an extensively tiresome scene with dull dialog and clichéd remarks , just a hint of things to come . Brando makes his eccentric entrance into the story about thirty-five minutes into the film as bounty hunter Robert E . Clayton , Jr . and the film goes downhill from then on , with Brando hired to make sure that Jack Nicholson and gang get their comeuppance . Meanwhile , a bunch of sub-plots involving Nicholson's attempt at romance , are slowly depicted and never fully developed . A young RANDY QUAID is one of Nicholson's gang members . Photography varies from brightly lit exteriors to muddy looking color for all the interiors of darkly lit cabins . A very lean score by John Williams fails to make any particular impression . Summing up : Brando addicts will no doubt think this is one of his greatest performances . Maybe not , but it is one of his strangest . Nicholson in a lower key is the major surprise .
( POSSIBLE SPOILER ) Watchable but weak prison drama saved by the stars . . .	If you're looking for top flight work from BOGART , SHERIDAN and O'BRIEN , don't look here . It's strictly a routine drama with a rather implausible resolution , and yet , because of its three stars it's still quite watchable . Sheridan is a nightclub singer who catches the eye of Pat O'Brien . He's present when Sheridan's brother HUMPHREY BOGART shows up at the club like a bad penny and sets the plot in motion when he's busted for a robbery rap . Turns out O'Brien is the tough warden at San Quentin and Bogart becomes his chief adversary in no time at all . You can almost guess the rest of the plot . It's fun recognizing the usual Warner stock players in supporting roles , especially BARTON MacLANE , JOE SAWYER and MARC LAWRENCE . GARY OWEN is the mentally unhinged bible man . VEDA ANN BORG is on hand as Joe Sawyer's conspiring sister in on a road gang break . Just don't expect anything out of the ordinary . Bogart's feisty and stubborn , as only he can muster , and Ann Sheridan at least gets to warble an unmemorable song number . Pat O'Brien plays it straight , tough and determined , all the way . Bogart seems to be enjoying his tin horn hoodlum role , and that's all that really matters . Ann Sheridan is mighty pretty in her pre-big time stardom days , but you have to overlook the improbable ending with Bogart crawling back to prison .
Not bad , a certain fairy-tale charm but odd vehicle for The Three Stooges . . .	I suppose The Three Stooges were getting a little fatigued by the time they did their work in SNOW WHITE AND THE THREE STOOGES because they're less exuberant than usual , in fact you might even say their slapstick is much more restrained . But this is good because Fox never intended this to be a showcase for them - - rather , it introduces Olympic Skating Champion Carol Heiss and features Edson Stroll doing a nice job as Prince Charming . Walter Lang did the directing and he's given an A budget on which a lot was obviously spent on costumes and settings , so from a strictly pictorial viewpoint the film is pleasant to look at in stunning technicolor . Gorgeous PATRICIA MEDINA has fun with her role as the wicked Queen who disguises herself as an old hag . Just to make sure Miss Heiss ' ice-skating is not totally ignored , they've given her two big production numbers and both of them are skillfully filmed and performed in winter wonderland type of settings . Fans of The Stooges may be disappointed , but actually this is not a bad re-telling of the fantasy using a totally different approach . The four songs are rather unmemorable but this is merely a pleasant enough diversion for young folks .
The ravens are mad for human flesh . . .	In what appears to be a feeble rip-off of THE BIRDS , KAW stars SEAN PATRICK FLANERY as a man about to serve his last day as sheriff of a sleepy town when some nasty business involving black ravens preying on people comes to his attention . Naturally , he has to do something about it - - and then the fun begins . What's so irritating about this one is that everyone seems to deliberately do the wrong thing in order to cause even more hell to break loose . Either careless with their guns or thinking they can shoot a couple of ravens and emerge without a scratch - - not knowing that each " kaw " brings hundreds more to the scene . But the main trouble with KAW is that none of the people are the least bit interesting . In this kind of thriller , you have to care about the participants . Even SEAN PATRICK FLANERY as the brave sheriff doing his duty to protect the townspeople is as bland as can be . Let's face it , he's no ROD TAYLOR who played Hitchcock's hero in THE BIRDS . And unfortunately , Rod Taylor has a small role here as Doc , looking more like character actor Walter Brennan than Rod Taylor . He was just about unrecognizable to me until I realized I'd seen his name in the cast . Whatever , age has certainly caused a transformation in his looks . As for the story , it starts slowly but the moment it gets into the more frantic movements of the ravens , it goes into a frenzy of screaming hysteria from the girls on the bus and elsewhere dominating the movie until the end . If you enjoy listening to screams , this one's for you . Summing up : Some passable CGI effects and overall good photography but everyone is let down by a weak script and poorly developed characters .
Rough around the edges . . .	This is a story of aimless drifters ( SHAWN HATOSY and SCOTT CAAN ) , bar buddies with no particular marketable skills who spend their time boozing it up , fighting , with at least one of them ( Scott Caan ) dreaming of big bucks in an easy heist . The heist ends the film on a downer when things go horribly wrong . It's really aimless stuff , rough around the edges with endless street tough talk and nothing about the script that hasn't been done before in better " heist " stories . JEFF GOLDBLAUM has the thankless role of a doctor SHAWN HATOSY confides in , a man who happens to be his mother's lover . He doesn't seem to have much on his mind either , smoking pot and dispensing whatever common sense he's capable of offering without much conviction . VAL LAUREN does a good , over-the-top job as a man on drugs who is hyper-sensitive as well as hyper-active , a Jew called " Christian . " Summing up : A trifle , easily forgotten and anyone who thinks Scott Caan bears even a slight resemblance to James Caan has got to have his eyes examined . No way whatsoever . The two lookalike father / son screen stars are still Kirk and Michael Douglas .
Put this turkey on the back burner . . .	A family on their way to a dinner with a daughter who can't cook is the stuffing for this comedy about a disastrous day in the life of a girl expecting her family for Thanksgiving . The girl who can't boil water is KATIE HOLMES and she can barely carry this unfunny comedy . It's a good thing for her that the mother is played well by PATRICIA CLARKSON and the patient father by OLIVER PLATT . The less said about the other characters the better . Too much of the humor is of the gross out kind - - not exactly potty but muddy enough to give the whole story a distasteful spin . None of the character are especially likable - - not even the ill mother who goes along with the trip even though she's feeling bad enough to puke all the way through her journey . Which is the way I began to feel halfway through this mess . The highlight is a scene with a Chinese family where she tries to explain Americana to them . Another is her upstairs neighbor , played by Sean Harrison , who seems oddly out of place in a tenement building with his brand new stove . The only true to life moment has a black couple helping her start cooking the turkey with some friendly cooking tips . It's all very quirky and supposed to be a flavorful slice of sentimental family stuff . It's all about as subtle as National Lampoon's Family Vacation and not even half as funny . If KATIE HOLMES has any special charm or talent I failed to notice it but it's a decent enough performance in an undemanding role .
Sterling Hayden in brisk , low-budget western . . .	Western fans who like their stories brisk and to the point , should find enough reason to like this mildly interesting western with STERLING HAYDEN as a gunslinger who returns to his hometown after a prison stay and runs into trouble again when he finds corruption rampant and the town's citizens all have him wrongly responsible for a series of murders . KAREN BOOTH is the love interest and she gets to play a crucial role toward the climax when she saves Hayden from a gunman's bullet . WILLIAM BISHOP is a corrupt landowner who had something to do with the death of Hayden's mom and becomes his staunch adversary throughout the plot . The opening credits fail to mention ROD TAYLOR who plays a town bully interested in provoking Hayden into a gunfight . He makes a convincing braggart with hardly a trace of his Austrlian accent showing . But the real villain of the piece is JOHN DEHNER as the head of an outlaw gang that Sterling Hayden tries to warn the villagers about . It's a decent enough western with a theme similar to HIGH NOON in that the town's sheriff has trouble rounding up a posse to take care of the invading outlaws . Summing up : All of the principal players do a decent enough job but it's more or less a standard western with some conniving characters getting their comeuppance in time for Hayden and Booth to ride off into the sunset .
Make-up : 10 - - Script : 3 - - Acting : 3 . . .	Only until midway through THE HOWLING is there any real hint of danger or excitement in the werewolf scheme of things . Up until then , we have pretty blonde DEE WALLACE advised to seek rest and relaxation by a doctor ( PATRICK MACNEE ) who thinks a trip to a country retreat will soothe her nerves . Of course , what he neglects to tell her is that the resort is creeping with werewolves and she's a newspaper woman who will soon have quite a scoop for her target audience of TV viewers . We know that she'll have a scoop because at the end of this messy horror film , the final horror twist is the one we suspected would be pulled at the last minute . DEE WALLACE tries to look alarmed in her big close-up reaction shots but looks as though she's just having a bad day away from the office even when a werewolf is breathing down her neck . PATRICK MACNEE does nothing to make us think he's doing anything more than wasting his time in this poorly constructed exploitation film for horror fans , and JOHN CARRADINE is almost unrecognizable as one of the foremost character actors of movies during the ' 30s , ' 40s and ' 50s . Believe me , you have better things to do with your time than expect anything more than some good glimpses of Rick Baker's expertise with make-up for the transformation scenes . This is one poor excuse for a horror film and doesn't set any standards for things to come in this genre .
Something went wrong with " the formula " . . . only Marilyn shines . . .	The cast includes some of the top masters of screwball comedy and is directed by the man who made BRINGING UP BABY - - and yet this is not the bright and witty farce it strains to be . Ironically , it's MARILYN MONROE , in the film's smallest role as a dimwit secretary , who steals the spotlight from CARY GRANT , GINGER ROGERS and CHARLES COBURN whenever she pops up . . . which isn't often enough . Superstardom was just around the corner and this film is proof that Monroe had the kind of charisma that charms even when her dialog is not that funny . CARY GRANT does well in most of his scenes but the Indian romp with the boys is too unbelievable even for this far-fetched comic spoof . At times , he seems almost detached from his role . Poor HUGH MARLOWE looks mighty uncomfortable as a victim of the " let's play Indian " stunt . So much so , that one can only picture him wishing he was back in ALL ABOUT EVE . GINGER ROGERS has an irritating sequence where she and Cary revisit their honeymoon hotel with disastrous results when she goes into a crying jag over the mention of her mother's name . Ginger only perks up when imitating an even more youthful version of her " Major and the Minor " role - - but she is given only brief moments to shine . Coburn plays his role effortlessly and is especially amusing when referring to his secretary's lack of skills . " Anyone can type " , he says of Monroe as she wriggles away . But true wit is missing for most of the film and the laughs come at the expense of the two main stars who show a surprising lack of chemistry when thrown together . The formula just doesn't work here . Something went wrong and it shows .
Great cast livens depressing comedy . . .	KIERAN CULKIN gives a marvelous performance as a hip kid who treats everyone with supreme indifference and no shortage of one-liners . Asked by a potential girlfriend why he's not in school , he merely says , " Sheer ingenuity " , after being kicked out of numerous schools on the east coast and driving his mother ( SUSAN SARANDON ) and brother ( RYAN PHILLIPPE ) crazy with his boorish behavior . IGBY GOES DOWN is a smart black comedy that is equal parts depressing and funny at the same time . Culkin refers to his mother as " the heinous one " and his father ( BILL PULLMAN ) as a disturbed man who's " in a Maryland home for the befuddled . " His girlfriend admits she's been adopted and calls herself " a vanity project of narcissistic parents . " That gives you an idea of the flavor of most of the dialog in a story about a boy who ends up just like his father - - feeling " a great , great pressure pulling down over him . " The story ends with him and his brother cooperating in the demise of their mom - - an act of euthanasia - - and parting when Culkin leaves for California and a possibly life on the mean streets without a promising future while brother Ryan merely says , " There never was a great deal between us . " It's a downer of a comedy but some of it is very effective , thanks largely to the caliber of the performances , all fine . The cast includes JEFF GOLDBLUM , CLAIRE DANES and AMANDA PEET in interesting supporting roles and a soundtrack of pop music that sounded pretty appropriate to me .
Amusing but hardly hilarious as it takes a swipe at capitalism . . .	It's hard to classify this as a comedy when it really deals in a rather underhanded way with what would happen if someone invents a dirt free fabric that would put millions of cleaners out of business . That's the set-up for this strange little comedy featuring ALEC GUINNESS as " everyman " who just happens to be a wee bit eccentric . JOAN GREENWOOD uses her voice deliciously to give whatever comic element she can to the role of the inventor's daughter . CECIL PARKER does his usual good job as a textile mill owner and other British character actors distinguish themselves in lesser roles , including ERNEST THESIGER . There are explosions as Guinness fails in his various attempts to come up with the fabric he's intent on inventing - - and indeed there are several of them that provide chuckles while the experiments go awry , but in general the level of comedy is rarely evenly distributed . Even the mad chase at the end is more frightening and suspenseful rather than funny . Depends on your mood , whether or not this one will do the trick . It's decidedly off beat and if you're an Alec Guinness fan you'll probably find it worth a look . I never found it hilarious , just mildly amusing and wildly unbelievable .
Benny as a lawyer . . . no more Mr . Nice Guy . . .	I was always a fan of JACK BENNY and his radio shows and later his appearances on TV after his movie career waned . But while I enjoyed some of his films tremendously ( GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE , CHARLEY'S AUNT , THE HORN BLOWS AT MIDNIGHT ) , I found THE MEANEST MAN IN THE WORLD to be a huge disappointment . Even though it runs less than an hour , it's a dud . Poor PRISCILLA LANE has a hard time convincing me as Benny's patient sweetheart that she'd have anything to do with the character Benny plays . He's a softy , with a heart of gold , but discovers that people pay more attention to him as a lawyer if he appears to be mean and ruthless in his dealings . So much for the ironic flavor of the plot . Thankfully , Eddie " Rochester " Anderson is on hand for a few laughs and there are a few clever moments in the script , but most of it just lays an egg - - a big one . If you want to enjoy Benny in films , I'd recommend GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE as one of his better comedies .
Another old-fashioned look at debutantes in the ' 30s . . .	FINISHING SCHOOL starts with a whimper : FRANCES DEE enters the same finishing school her mother ( BILLIE BURKE ) attended , a school burdened by rules that most of the girls never follow - - including Dee's new roommate , GINGER ROGERS . And it doesn't end with a bang . BEULAH BONDI is the prissy lady who tells Dee about all the rules . ANNE SHIRLEY is a naive girl who wants to be part of the gang but is rebuffed by Ginger's set . The dialog is not exactly crackling with gems . " One step lower and I'll be in the movies , " says one old gal who deceives the school mistress by playing the good aunt taking the girls to a matinée instead of a wild week-end rendezvous with men . When Dee passes out on her wild weekend , it's BRUCE CABOT , a waiter at the hotel , to her rescue . He pays a passing milkman 12 cents for a quart of milk so Dee can have some breakfast . Oh , the good old days ! ! Even with some good names in the supporting cast , it never manages to be more than an innocuous treatment of an innocuous theme . Dee is pretty but her acting , as usual , is pretty forgettable . Bruce Cabot does well enough in one of his few likable roles as a young man studying to be an intern while waiting tables on the side . As for Ginger Rogers , at least she adds a little spice as Dee's friend . Watchable but underwhelming as a feature that probably played the lower half of double bills in the ' 30s .
U . S . agent infiltrates forgery ring in London . . .	U . S . secret service agent YUL BRYNNER is enlisted by Scotland Yard to infiltrate a forgery ring distributing phony U . S . currency in London . He joins a Scotland Yard man EDWARD WOODWARD in this story that appears to be a remake of T-MEN , a thriller from the ' 40s that starred Dennis O'Keefe in the Brynner role . This version starts in the same terse documentary style as the American film . It's Brynner who decides the best way to capture the mob is to infiltrate them , with Woodward as his back-up , a man with a wife and two children . Brynner is motivated by revenge . His sweetheart was killed in America by men who meant to kill him . Brynner has his misgivings about Woodward . " A married man should be sitting behind a desk shoving papers . " He's afraid Woodward won't be a good back-up for him since he refuses to carry a gun . The London backgrounds add flavor to the story , but the script is a cumbersome one , lacking the tension of T-MEN . Dull stretches toward the middle of the story take away from interest for the overall story to have the desired effect . Sam Wanamaker's direction is much too sluggish for this kind of yarn . CHARLES GRAY does a nice job as " The Owl " . The storyline is so similar in detail to T-MEN that it's an example of how a 1940s film noir filmed in shadowy B & W can be so superior to this Technicolor remake shifted to London locales but otherwise much the same story , except for some minor changes toward the conclusion . Summing up : Should have generated more suspense . A better editing job would have helped the sluggish pace of a film that is not without a certain amount of intrigue and danger .
Cute , funny , bubbly . . . NOT . . .	If it wasn't for the professional ease DEBBIE REYNOLDS displays in almost any role she plays , BUNDLE OF JOY would rank among the most forgettable romantic comedies of all time . And this is true , even though she's surrounded by pros like TOMMY NOONAN ( as an ambitious but overly flirtatious floor-walker ) and ADOLPHE MENJOU ( as a man who wishes he was the grandpa of the cute baby boy ) . And in the middle of this mess , is a weak performance by EDDIE FISHER , clearly in need of comic timing and finesse , especially since the lines he's given to speak are slightly short of ridiculous . His department store musical number at the film's start is an embarrassment to watch , clumsily staged and performed . Director Norman Taurog is to blame for not being able to put any life into this retread of a GINGER ROGERS / David NIVEN / CHARLES COBURN film called BACHELOR MOTHER . The story is not the only handicap . The songs are third rate , even though Fisher and Reynolds deliver them in an appropriate style . Only one of them is a remotely catchy tune called " How I Love My Pretty Baby " . Obviously this is the kind of story of mistaken identifies that someone like Norman Krasna could write in his sleep ( too bad he wasn't summoned to help with the script ) , but it's played in such uninspired fashion by Fisher and most of the cast ( including the usually reliable Adolphe Menjou , Melville Cooper and Bill Goodwin ) , that it falls flat in injecting any real wit or humor into the contrived situations . Summing up : Debbie deserved better than this . Both she and Fisher appear to be completely clueless as to what a dud this really is .
Explosive kisses mixed with carrots . . . typical Bugs Bunny cartoon . . .	This is your typical Bugs Bunny cartoon , complete with enemy antagonist ( another bigger and more moronic bunny ) , explosive carrots and enough slapstick to keep Bugs ' fans happy . Daisy is out on a shopping spree while Bugs decides he has to get rid of his arch rival in a hurry . He dresses up like Daisy and has a little success at first , completely fooling the dummy and getting some shots at him that the foolish one thinks are merely a part of Daisy's explosive personality . He catches on - - finally - - and by the time the real Daisy returns , he decides to get even , thinking it's still Bugs in disguise . Fun to watch but definitely not one of the top BB cartoons . Still , kids should love its slapstick moments that are frequent and a bit over the top even for a cartoon .
Really a tribute to the blacksmith who works on Hollywood's horses . . .	Trite little short supposedly shows Hollywood stars on horseback - - but instead lifts clips from their films in the case of Bette Davis ( DARK VICTORY ) and Olivia de Havilland ( GOLD IS WHERE YOU FIND IT ) . Otherwise , the viewer gets brief glimpses of Priscilla Lane , Dennis Morgan , Joan Leslie , George Tobias and Joel McCrea in brief outdoor shots on horseback . Really just a chance for Warner Bros . to remind patrons of their stars , but cheating just a little by using only film clips for Bette and Olivia . Summing up : Easy to miss .
" Even the mud in HOMECOMING looks slick and unreal , like it passed an MGM screen test " . . .	HOMECOMING was an enormously popular MGM hit when released because Gable and Turner gave it tremendous box-office power . But the majority of the reviews were pretty scathing . Yet , the public ran eagerly to see it . I tend to agree with the critics on this one . " Nothing more than a cheap , synthetic chunk of romance designed to exploit two gaudy stars , " said Bosley Crowther in The N . Y . Times . " Pretends to be serious about serious things - - war and medicine in particular . " But my favorite comment came from another critic of a lesser paper who wrote : " Since they are two glamorous people , theirs is a glamorous war - - in battle , in bombings , in death , there is no real agony , or ugliness or heartache . Even the mud in HOMECOMING looks slick and unreal , like it passed an MGM screen test . " My reaction was pretty similar . I see this kind of romantic war movie as a chance to get CLARK GABLE and LANA TURNER in a heavy-handed chance at dramatics that supposedly pulls the heart strings while the good little wife ANNE BAXTER stays behind on the homefront worrying that her husband will have changed too much for their marriage to stay intact . Turner actually does do a fine job in her death scene , but the whole story just seems like a contrivance to give two very popular studio stars the chance to romance against a background of World War II , as they did a few years earlier in SOMEWHERE I'LL FIND YOU . No matter . Of course Lana's fans are going to see her in anything - - ditto for Gable - - and they were certainly the target audience for this kind of pulp romance .
Spiritual fable marred by some odd casting . . .	THE GREATEST GIFT is a simplistic fable about a juggler ( EDMUND GWENN ) who is on his way to earn money at an Italian fair when he falls ill and is taken in by some monks who nurse him back to health . They are preparing for a festival honoring the Virgin Mary and each is making a suitable gift for an offering . Encouraged to stay until the fair is over , Gwenn is unable to think of anything he can offer except for his juggling apparatus . This idea is scornfully rejected by HANS CONREID and LUMSDEN HARE , so he uses another approach that seems to work a miracle . Unfortunately , Edmund Gwenn seems a bit out of place as the juggler , donned in a page boy dark wig that only accentuates his inappropriate age . And Hans Conreid , as the skeptic , looks oddly out of place in the monastery setting when he's associated mainly with wild and wacky comedy roles . But with these reservations aside , it's a watchable enough short subject that is heartwarming if a bit overly sentimental in its tale of Christian faith .
Some stunning visuals in search of a plot . . .	What a sad waste of time to find people like MAXIMILIAN SCHELL , ANTHONY PERKINS and YVETTE MIMIEUX - - and even ERNEST BORGNINwasting their time in a ripoff of " Star Wars " or any other sci-fi extravaganza ever made . None of them is the least bit believable in this silly effort to create a story around THE BLACK HOLE . The trouble is definitely the script - - no one has lines that would sound believable coming from even the greatest actors . Schell shouts some of them as if he's doing Shakespeare , but nothing helps . The sets are huge , some of the special effects are impressive and the music is sometimes overwhelming - - but there's no real plot . Nothing even begins to make sense until you've watched about the first forty minutes of the story - - and by that time most viewers will be asleep . Highly unlikely I'll ever want to tune this one in again . It's hard to believe a major studio would thrust this kind of thing on the public when standards for sci-fi were so high at the time .
John Barrymore's Don Juan not quite as dashing as Flynn . . .	This is another example of an early sound film that is worth viewing just to get a sense of how advanced film was in the mid-20s with the ability to synchronize a musical score to film . Otherwise , it's not quite up to what we expect of entertainment in a story about DON JUAN and his exploits , which was done years later ( in tongue-in-cheek style ) with the dashing Errol Flynn in THE ADVENTUES OF DON JUAN . The performances are what one would expect during this transition period from silent film to sound - - the acting is stilted , stage bound and overly theatrical . I was never a great admirer of JOHN BARRYMORE as an actor and his performance here left me feeling there was room for a lot of improvement in his screen technique . MARY ASTOR , although young and demure enough , never makes a strong impression as the dewy-eyed leading lady . The prologue seems to set the tone for the rest of the story . It unfolds like a Greek tragedy with Don Juan's father entombing a man he catches having an adulterous affair with his wife . When a woman in his court later stabs him fatally , he tells his son to take his revenge on women by adopting a love ' em and leave ' em attitude . Then the main story begins and the tone becomes playful . Unfortunately , nothing in the story proper has any particular twist on the Don Juan story , at least at the start where the Vitaphone Orchestra busily chronicles his amorous dalliances with three women in a playfully amusing way . But as the story progresses , the constant tempo of background music begins to get on the nerves , never ceasing to stop emphasizing the heavily persistent score . After a good forty-five minutes , I was beginning to resent the background score as much as the paltry scenario which only begins to shift gears when it gets to the Borgias and their involvement with Don Juan . A very youthful looking MONTAGU LOVE sporting a mustache , looks much like Nelson Eddy in his heyday , and MYRNA LOY has a small role as a handmaiden of the court . Summing up : Overall , it's a rather dull version of the Don Juan legend , interesting only as a film of historic value because of its transition via Vitaphone to a sound background score . Silent titles and film technique makes it still a product of the silent period . The story itself is uninspired by the Don Juan legend and , unfortunately , Barrymore is more effete than robust in his manner of portraying the great lover .
Deanna's last film is highly forgettable . . .	It must be reasons like FOR THE LOVE OF MARY that had Deanna packing her duds and leaving Hollywood for good . Seems that Universal was unable to offer her the kind of scripts she wanted which would offer her more substantial roles than this attempt at light-hearted screwball comedy that never once flies into orbit . The trouble , aside from some pedestrian direction by Frederick de Cordova and some unimpressive sets and costumes , is that the script is a muddled mess with a plot outline that almost defies description , it's so complicated . Naturally , within the bounds of screwball comedy , all the complications are supposed to make the story hilariously funny - - but fail to do so , mainly because it's banal material lacking any real wit or wisdom . Deanna is a Washington miss who has connections well above those of the average switchboard operator , including Supreme Court judges and even the President who happens to listen in on one of her conversations and decides to meddle in her affairs in choosing the right man for a woman being chased by three men . DEANNA DURBIN sings some four or five songs nicely in her own lovely soprano voice but it's enough to try anyone's patience if they're waiting to hear her sing when the story is so pedestrian . JEFFREY LYNN as a lawyer suitor , EDMOND O'BRIEN as the eventual swain , and DON TAYLOR as one of the unlucky ones , are simply foils for Durbin with no depth to their roles . RAY COLLINS and HARRY DAVENPORT do what they can in lively supporting roles , but nothing really helps . Too bad for Durbin fans . She was still fetching to look at and used her voice beautifully but the material is fluff , nothing more , and certainly unworthy of her talents . No wonder she had enough .
Even a misfire can have a certain charm . . .	ROBIN WILLIAMS tones down his usual manic personality to play a suitably aged Peter Pan who has become ( of all things ) a lawyer and the father of children he can barely spare the time to acknowledge . It's an original concept for a film about the legendary Peter Pan who , as an adult , has to save his children by sprinkling himself with fairy dust ( courtesy of an ill-conceived Tinker Bell played by JULIA ROBERTS ) . Despite being an uneven and overlong film , there are some compensations , chiefly in the performances of Maggie Smith ( as the aged Wendy ) , DUSTIN Hoffman as a wigged and mustached Captain Hook , and BOB HOSKINS as Smee , providing some much needed comic relief as Captain Hook's fawning pirate . There's a certain amount of charm in the nursery scenes that open the film - - but , unfortunately , once Peter flees to Neverland , the film sinks beneath a plethora of clumsy looking settings and a peculiarly chosen cast of Lost Boys . Only the clever bantering between Peter and Captain Hook bring some of the Neverland scenes to life - - and the final dueling match is well staged and fun to watch . All in all , it's like a pudding that has too many lumps in it for complete enjoyment . Even John Williams ' score is less satisfying than usual , apparently because the material was not inspiring enough for his genius .
A minor melodrama with standard priest role for O'Brien . . .	PAT O'BRIEN has all the Irish charm and blarney to play a priest who can fast talk his way out of any situation with consummate ease - - and it's the sort of role he could have played in his sleep by the time he made FIGHTING FATHER DUNNE . The storyline sounds like a recap of BOY'S TOWN - - without the extra punch supplied by an above ordinary script - - so the film plugs along without much steam , folksy but predictable and full of stereotyped child actors playing newspaper boys . DARRYL HICKMAN is the most prominent among them but can't do too much with his role as the most troublesome one who can't be reformed by the good intentions of Father Dunne . It's a strictly minor entry in O'Brien's career which was starting to go on the skids in the late ' 40s and played the lower half of a double bill when released in 1948 without much notice from critics or the public .
Silent backstage drama stars Beatrice Lillie in rare screen role . . .	There's nothing strikingly original about EXIT SMILING except for the fact that it doesn't have the usual happy Hollywood ending . It stars the incomparable BEATRICE LILLIE and FRANKLIN PANGBORN ( yes , that's right ) as a matinée idol by the name of Cecil Lovelace ! He , of course , was a great character actor who could do double takes and slow burns better than anyone except Cary Grant . It's a tale that in its essence reminds me of the Betty Hutton / John Lund starrer , THE PERILS OF PAULINE , which was also about a traveling repertory company with non-actress Betty struggling to fit in with the group of players and all of the outrageous gags that made up Hutton's comedy routines in that film . Here it's BEATRICE LILLIE mugging her way through some really funny gag situations , demonstrating why she was such a talented funny lady even as early as this silent film . She struts her stuff with gay abandon , including the scenes where she's playing the man's role in a typically passion-filled saga meant to enthrall audiences with its tragic situations . The talent does not extend to the rest of the cast , with the exception of FRANKLIN PANGBORN who is excellent as Cecil Lovelace . But JACK PICKFORD ( Mary Pickford's younger brother ) is an odd choice for leading man opposite Lillie . He has absolutely no charisma , lacks any sort of acting talent and gives a dull , lifeless performance as the small town fugitive suspected of robbery who is protected by the lovestruck Lillie and given a job in the acting troupe . A very nice complementary score by Linda Martinez can be heard whenever the film is presented on TCM . It adds a much needed touch to the comic situations . Definitely a silent film delight , well worth seeing , especially for fans of Lillie and the inimitable Franklin Pangborn .
MGM promotional short for " Guns of San Sebastian " . . .	International film-making is exemplified by this promotional short advertising the forthcoming GUNS OF SAN SEBASTIAN starring ANTHONY QUINN and filmed on location in the desert and among the mountains of northern Mexico . The town of San Sebastian looks exactly as it did centuries ago when the action of the story takes place in the 1700s . Shown are some brief moments of filming , mostly action scenes featuring explosives and gunfire and all sorts of mayhem breaking loose . In one physically demanding moment , Quinn is dragged along the ground by a fast running horse whipped by CHARLES BRONSON . The timeless landscape makes the Mexico location shooting perfect for this kind of story . The director , fluent in several languages , is shown directing a multi-lingual cast and crew and obviously pleased with the end results . But on the whole , this is not a specially involving short documentary .
Betsy stalks Grant in weak comedy . . .	Anyone watching EVERY GIRL SHOULD BE MARRIED today can see why Betsy Drake never made it as a big star . She's an acquired taste with her thin , pensive face and her thick lips and that little lisp that comes and goes while she gushes about her dream man - - CARY GRANT - - whom she married shortly after finishing the film . She did have a certain flair for light comedy but here it's wasted on a silly script that has her running after Grant in a manner that would have called for a restraining order in today's society . Grant just sort of walks through a role he could have played in his sleep and the gags , only a few of which are genuinely amusing , are much too bland to recall once the film is over . FRANCHOT TONE is completely wasted but DIANA LYNN has a few good moments as Betsy's more sensible friend . But no one is at their best and it's the kind of film quickly forgotten once you've viewed it .
A nostalgic slice of Americana that is definitely " gone with the wind " . . .	Viewing the film today is a lot different than when I viewed it years and years ago as a kid growing up in a residential town not quite as isolated looking as the railroad town shown in THE HUMAN COMEDY . Don't get me wrong - - I can still appreciate the charm of individual scenes , the boy waving to the trains , the soldiers looking for a rainy day date , the trainload of boys off to the war , and the very touching telegraph scenes with MICKEY ROONEY and FRANK MORGAN . Both were at their finest in this one . Then there's the added bonus of having some nice scenes between JAMES CRAIG and MARSHA HUNT - - not to mention all the other fairly well-known cast members who all have their moments to shine in this film based on William Saroyan's novel . But it strikes me now as a rather overly sentimental slice of Americana with everyone making little speeches about how they feel ( FAY BAINTER , as the mother , in particular ) , even though it does paint a fairly accurate picture of how much simpler life in America was during the ' 40s and World War II . VAN JOHNSON , DONNA REED , ROBERT MITCHUM ( unbilled ) and BARRY NELSON all score nicely and it's about as sweet and nostalgic as any film of this period about the homefront during war . I loved the scene with the small boy ( " Butch " Jenkins ) in front of the store window where a mannequin comes to life for a big scare . Summing up : A bit heavy-handed with the preaching , more a series of vignettes than a whole story , but touching nevertheless .
Abstract art accompanies " Hungarian Rhapsody " . . .	I appreciated the soundtrack more than the abstract art , patterns of balloon-shaped dots that dance across the screen for six minutes while the 2nd Hungarian Rhapsody explodes with musical sounds . After a few minutes , the short becomes too repetitious to be really novel . In fact , it's the sort of thing the Disney studio was already experimenting with and led to several short subjects , as well as the full-length feature " Fantasia " later on , combining classical music with unique animation . But this was 1937 and the comparison to Disney was not made at the time . Nevertheless , I found it monotonous to watch and not unique enough , except for the exhilarating classical music performed .
POSSIBLE SPOILER . . . Tiresome , dreary take on the legendary outlaw . . . gritty product of the 1970s . . .	Despite its stellar cast , this is clearly a product of 1970s film-making , when even a tale of the legendary childhood hero has to have a gritty , realistic approach with a downbeat ending . Younger viewers are saying things like " if you liked the Kevin Costner version , you won't like this . " They ought to start their point of reference with the 1938 classic starring Errol Flynn , Olivia de Havilland , Basil Rathbone and Claude Rains instead , because that is the definitive version of the Robin Hood legend and this film in no way is a fitting sequel to that sort of storytelling . Instead of calling itself ROBIN AND MARIAN , deceptively luring lovers of the old legend to see the film , it should have been titled something more appropriately dealing with two bittersweet , faded lovers who bear no resemblance to the legendary outlaw and his lady love . Having Miss Hepburn appear in nun's robes is another huge mistake . Neither star is shown at their charismatic best . Nor does the presence of Robert Shaw or Richard Harris make up for the weary script . As a matter of fact , this is one of the few films of the 1970s that I actually walked out on . I did not stay for the downbeat ending which I understand has Miss Hepburn killing the outlaw herself . No way . Goldman's script is heavy , lumbering stuff , hard to even stay awake for . Two thumbs down .
Weak made-for-TV low budget try at the horror genre . . .	Not only is this a weak haunted house story ( although based on a true life story ) , but the acting and direction is downright foolish and unconvincing . The special effects are possibly the worst feature of all , with the demons completely lacking any sort of evil presence and simply shapeless blobs . You have to wonder how someone like DIANE BAKER got talked into doing this turkey . She's just one of a series of people who try to rid the house of demons at the request of homeowners JEFFREY DeMUNN and SALLY KIRKLAND . Kirkland's awkward handling of cigarettes , together with her over-the-top performance , is distracting , to say the least . Of all the adults in the cast , DeMunn is the most competent . But nothing happens that hasn't been featured in a dozen other stories about haunted houses in normal looking neighborhoods . This shows its made-for-TV origins in every scene and compares unfavorably to many other stories told on any number of cable stations dealing with real tales of haunted homes . Not recommended - - nor does it have a satisfying ending - - merely a message on the screen that a few years later a better exorcism was sanctioned by the Catholic Church and this time it was successful .
The power of the nickel is extolled in this strange documentary . . .	It's extraordinary how something like the nickel can be the subject of a documentary from MGM which ends with statements from four of their stars to write letters overseas to let European know what America is really like . It begins with a look at the nickel over the years and how it became the most used bit of currency from Americans during the ' 20s and ' 30s ( and even ' 40s ) , buying everything from a haircut to a beer or a visit to a movie house known as " the Nickelodeon " . The rather dry narrative goes on and on extolling the virtues of spreading America's capitalistic system throughout the world by writing letters which can be posted for a nickel to all your European relatives or friends , concluding with the brief statements from Leslie Caron , Ricardo Montalban , Pier Angeli and Zsa Zsa Gabor , all of whom speak in their native languages . Seems to be saying what we all know - - the pen is mightier than the sword to spread democracy .
Arbuckle's hobo is a lot less appealing than Chaplin's . . .	Underneath his hobo greasepaint , FATTY ARBUCKLE is hard to recognize since he usually plays a working class guy , often teamed with MABEL NORMAND . Here he's a street hobo looking for handouts who inadvertently becomes suspected of being " the bomber " when he waltzes into MACK SWAIN's bar with a cheese Swain thinks is a bomb . That's the set-up and it's a thin one on which to hang a plot , even for a short film . This being the Age of Terror , as someone else observed , it's not exactly a " feel good " sort of comedy . It's hard to recognize SLIM SUMMERVILLE behind the bar and I never did recognize EDGAR KENNEDY as the generous man who offered the cheese . But the sad fact is that Arbuckle's hobo is never an appealing creature , unlike the gifted Charlie Chaplin who was able to make so much more of that sort of character . This is one you can miss without missing anything .
Short subject made from feature film and shown on TCM . . .	If the murky photography shown in this short subject with clips from AROUND THE WORLD UNDER THE SEA ( ' 66 ) is any indication , the bad comments from others on the feature length version of the film are more than vindicated . In fact , the color photography is murky whether photographed above or below water and the narration is weak . We get a glimpse of an underwater world from a picture-making expedition that had men scouting locations from the Bahamas to Australia . I'm sure they had a more interesting time than these film clips reveal . A few brief shots of LLOYD BRIDGES , SHIRLEY EATON , KEENAN WYNN and BRIAN KELLY are all we get of the actors involved , while most of the time is spent telling us how dangerous the expedition was for combat divers and their underwater equipment , with camera crews swimming among dolphins , barracuda and even sharks . Poorly photographed , it hardly whets one's appetite for seeing the feature film .
Dated psychological drama with simplistic solution . . .	THE DARK PAST is notable only for giving WILLIAM HOLDEN a chance to get away momentarily from the " Smiling Jim " kind of roles audiences were used to seeing him play throughout most of his early career . It's a film that came along at a time when Hollywood was discovering psychiatric themes ( SPELLBOUND , THE SNAKE PIT ) , but it's minor league compared to those two breakthrough films . The script is a simplistic tale of a killer whose demons are exposed by a pipe-smoking psychologist ( LEE J . COBB in a good performance ) , who explains to the hot-headed killer why he's motivated to kill . Seems there's a Freudian explanation involving a mother complex and a much hated father figure . What seems even more improbable than Cobb's one dimensional analysis is the fact that Holden , a hot-tempered guy who calls everything he can't understand " screwy " , would even listen to Cobb for a single moment . Nor is NINA FOCH the best choice to play a gun moll , but she does the chore nicely enough to be forgiven in a role that would have been more suitable for someone like Gloria Grahame . Foch is attractive as the moll who is trying to understand Holden's situation while at the same time keeping Cobb's house guests under tight control . ELLEN CORBY is mind-numbingly silly as a whimpering housemaid bound in the cellar but all the other supporting roles are nicely handled . It's just that the material seems basically hokey by today's standards . Mercifully , the film runs a brief 75 minutes under Rudolph Mate's direction . Summing up : Holden gives it his all as a mentally unhinged killer , but it's an uphill battle against a mediocre script and simplistic solutions . Dated elements hold it back .
Handsome to look at , but dull in the telling . . .	When a film is more of a chore to sit through than a pleasure , you know something is wrong . " Alexander the Great " is lavishly produced and handsome to look at with impressive sets and costumes , but even the battle scenes are dull , as staged by director Robert Rossen . RICHARD BURTON is physically impressive as Alexander ( with blonde wig ) , but recites his lines without any real passion or conviction . FREDRIC MARCH is better as his father , but when he dies midway through the story , the film suffers and goes downhill until the end . CLAIRE BLOOM is spirited in the leading femme role and has a few scenes that she plays very well . But too many talky speeches between battles are part of the problem . The script never allows any of the characters to be really fleshed out . In the end , one is left with the feeling that whatever history has been told is on the modest side , and instead there's a sand and sandal type of feeling - - a Hollywoodized version of history - - that one is left to ponder . Burton uses his voice effectively at times , but it's not one of his best performances . Summing up : History on the dull side .
Where was Cary Grant when Donen needed him ? . . .	GREGORY PECK and SOPHIA LOREN make a handsome couple , even though Peck was pushing 50 at the time and still looked good enough to play romantic leads with the best of them . Loren is given a series of Christian Dior outfits that must have knocked the socks off viewers easily bowled over by movie glamor . But the story seems like a close relation to CHARADE ( Donen's other big hit a few years previously ) , with elements of kidnapping and spy chasing left over from NORTH BY NORTHWEST . Each of those films had a wittier script than some of the lame lines given Peck and Loren here . POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEADIt's a spy story so convoluted that most of the time you can't tell where Loren's loyalties really are or whether she cares whether Peck survives all the car chases and shootings and mechanical contrivances at a construction site that aim to kill . And when one of the final revelations involves a man pretending to be another , it makes you think of Hitchcock and the assassination attempt in FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT . In other words , don't expect too much originality in the various plot devices , nor expect too much wit in the cornball exchanges between the villains ( KIERON MOORE , ALAN BADEL , JOHN MERIVALE ) and the out of his depth hero ( PECK ) who finds that trying to decipher a Hittite code can be a dangerous thing when so many enemies want to get their hands on the encrypted message . It moves briskly under Donen's stylish direction . The big set piece where the villains use a helicopter to chase the horseback riders who then ascend to a huge bridge where a final murder attempt takes place , is handled vigorously and with some genuine suspense and excitement . But the story itself has moments that seem extremely foolish and terribly contrived . Biggest disappointment in the cast is GREGORY PECK , who is trying to fill a role so obviously designed for CARY GRANT's " everyman hero " caught in a dangerous situation spinning out of control . Peck has neither the timing nor the suave sense of humor called for , noticeable particularly in the shower scene with Loren which he plays with a blank face . This sort of comedy / romance was obviously not his forte and cries for someone like Cary to inject an ironic sense of humor when needed . SOPHIA LOREN and the others have a much better time being convincing .
The boys are shanghaied onto what they think is a ghost ship . . .	Frankly , I've enjoyed other Laurel and Hardy shorts much more than this effort from 1934 . It's predictable from start to finish with the laughs centered around the boys helping a ship's captain to round up a crew for his ship and then getting hoodwinked themselves into joining the crew . The laughs revolve mainly around a drunken sailor who is mistaken for a ghost when he becomes covered in white liquid . The boys throw him off the ship when Stan's examination of a revolver leads to him firing a shot at the man's bunk . Thinking he's dead , they throw him overboard and then go into a panic when he comes aboard ship again still appearing like a ghost . It's mercifully a short that doesn't overstay its welcome . The laughs are strictly for the team's die-hard fans who will undoubtedly enjoy this more than I did . Summing up : Silly and predictable nonsense .
Comedy / Fantasy experiments with virtual reality . . .	Strictly a hit and miss kind of thing , a chic flick for the romantically inclined types who revel in seeing a woman putting down men as worthless love objects and dreaming of an alternate life style for herself while not making any real commitments in the real world , but living in some kind of virtual reality so she can test the waters of being someone else . On the credit side , it's all very stylishly photographed in handsome settings , has a bouncy musical score to keep things moving along at a nice pace , and has a virtuoso central performance by RACHEL GRIFFITHS that would be even more charming if her character made any sense . She reminds me of the sort of appeal Betsy Drake ( American actress once married to Cary Grant ) had in films like EVERY GIRL SHOULD BE MARRIED . She has the same girlish charm and very expressive eyes and mouth that can let you know what she's supposed to be thinking , especially when glimpsed in close-up reactions . But it's as light as air , as flimsy as plots go , with some pleasant incidental scenes of families trying to bond , as for example the dinner restaurant scene with hubby , wife and children eating out in a candlelit atmosphere , including the little boy who says he " has to go to the toilet " at a picture-taking moment . These sly observations of single life vs . family gatherings give the film its human qualities . But the character of the rather neurotic young woman is only vaguely suggested and she has so many annoying traits and sudden changes of mind that it becomes frustrating to keep up with her whims . As the ending shows , she values her independence but longs for something like a relationship with her latest love , Ben , ( played with romantic finesse by attractive SANDY WINTON ) , who clearly is nuts about her . Again , she's afraid to commit . Another demerit : The fantasy angle with her double only adds to the general aimlessness of the plot . The film's chief merit is RACHEL GRIFFITHS and her winsome charm .
Don't bother to see it . . .	Unless you're a die-hard fan of MARILYN MONROE , this is not for you , or for anyone seeking serious adult drama . Fox evidently wanted to showcase her in a dramatic role since they were busy grooming her for major stardom - - but she would have needed a stronger script and a better director than Roy Ward Baker to pull this one off . She adopts that little girl voice and a blank stare to convey fear and vulnerability , but it doesn't work since the role is written in such a vague and uncertain way that there's not much more she can do with it . She did indeed develop her dramatic skills , but not in this role . Others around her try hard to make the drama believable . Richard Widmark and Anne Bancroft do their usual competent jobs and the supporting cast all do their roles acceptably , particularly Elisha Cook , Jr . Marilyn seems to be sleepwalking through a thinly written part . Whatever noir touches would have made the suspense more gripping and whatever more could have been done to make Monroe's role more believable , we'll never know . Her role needed more than a wide-eyed stare . As it stands , it's an amateurish attempt at playing a psychotic baby-sitter before Monroe achieved more range as a performer .
Another film from Fox that never shows up on television . . .	DEEP WATERS was the kind of film that slipped by without much notice , a simple tale about an orphan boy ( DEAN STOCKWELL ) who longs for adventure on the high seas and has to be restrained by an old maid ( ANNE REVERE ) and a couple of townspeople who are carrying on an affair while arguing about the boy's future ( JEAN PETERS and DANA ANDREWS ) . Jean was an interesting actress at Fox who never quite reached her potential as a star - - and given material like this , it's a wonder she achieved the success she did in a number of other films . The story is pedestrian , saved by the good child performance of young Stockwell and benefits from some location photography in Maine mixed with studio shot scenes . She plays a young woman in charge of Stockwell who is engaged in arguments with Andrews over his being a lobster-man who won't seek a safer job on land and is even more incensed when he takes Stockwell along with him aboard his vessel . CESAR ROMERO shows up as a Portugese fisherman and manages to give the film's only spirited performance . Unfortunately , they're all stock characters adrift in a story that doesn't really hold water , no matter how deep it is . Based on a novel by Ruth Moore called SPOONHANDLE and directed by Henry King , it really doesn't amount to much , even with its storm at sea sequence .
Conway makes an acceptable Falcon but script is too busy . . .	A plane lands with nobody aboard , making a crash landing on automatic pilot . The police come to The Falcon ( TOM CONWAY ) for assistance in the mystery of the vanishing crew but he's reluctant to help them . That is , until a pretty girl tells him her father was aboard the plane and wants him to help her . His girlfriend , a Southern gal played by AMELITA WARD , persuades the Falcon to take the case . The plot thickens when another damsel in distress shows up , the niece of a wealthy man who needs to find her uncle and reveals a blackmail plot over missing securities that makes her afraid there's been a kidnapping . All of this happens within the first fifteen minutes , so you can see how crammed with events the plot gets in a very short time . Despite all the red herrings , I did manage to put my finger on the right suspect long before the end . Too much plotting spoils enjoyment of this one with too much cramming of plots and sub-plots in brief running time . Trivia note : AMELITA WARD , who plays the annoying and whining Southern woman that Conway manages to get rid of , was the body double for Olivia de Havilland's twin sister in THE DARK MIRROR ( ' 46 ) .
My least favorite of all the Agatha Christie films . . .	In order to get even the slightest bit of enjoyment out of THE ALPHABET MURDERS you have to forget that it's based on Agatha Christie's THE ABC MURDERS and disregard the fact that it bears only a slight resemblance to that tale . If you can't forget , you can't forgive what they've done to a perfectly intriguing Hercule Poirot tale , first of all by casting TONY RANDALL , of all people , as Poirot . That gives you an idea of the broad comedy style the film has . I have great respect for Randall as a more than competent supporting actor in a number of very watchable films , but he's just an odd choice to play Poirot . He doesn't even get the accent right . But that's not the only fault . Miss Christie's story is a rather far-fetched one to begin with . Here it is even more so because it's played more for farce than it is for murder and intrigue with the usual number of red herrings and suspects thrown into the mix . Of no help at all is the fact that the supporting cast does include ROBERT MORLEY , ANITA EKBERG , and brief appearances by STRINGER DAVIS and MARGARET RUTHERFORD who describes the whole affair as , " As simple as ABC . " She's wrong . Summing up : Oddly disturbing no matter how you look at it .
A new kind of swing band . . .	Buster Keaton , at a low point in his career , directed this short subject about a new kind of swing band that plays musical instruments without actually playing them . It's a novelty act that never really caught on and it's easy to understand why . No use discussing the plot . It's merely an excuse to show these " swing singers " doing their thing singing for their supper in a streamlined railroad " Dinah " . The black band is talented enough but the script is worthless , Keaton's direction is uninspired and the whole thing falls apart before " The End " is flashed on the screen . Forget about it .
Putting yourself in the driver's seat via a movie chair . . .	A movie chair is a magic carpet , according to this short feature , MOVIES ARE ADVENTURE , produced by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in ' 48 . Unfortunately , it's a compilation of tired clichés about the average movie-goer and his experience in putting himself in dangerous and exciting situations via the movie screen . Another drawback is that this short hasn't been restored at all , which makes viewing it an uncomfortable experience - - blotchy looking B & W photography that has a very flat effect . The narrator ( Gerald Mohr ) talks about the " romance , mystery , danger and excitement " bought with a movie ticket and we view a family of three watching movies with rapt attention and putting themselves into the scenes shown from KING KONG , THE SHIEK , SAN FRANCISCO , STAGECOACH , THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( Douglas Fairbanks ) , THE GOLD RUSH and CIMARRON , among others . Mercifully , it's only 11 minutes long , but it's still only a bland filler . Considering that it was produced by the Academy , it's a shame to see it being shown in such terrible condition .
Enjoyable short film has some clever touches . . .	I'm sure FATTY ARBUCKLE and MABEL NORMAND deserved their popularity back in 1915 when silents were attracting audiences to this new thing called " the movies " , but frankly it's easy to dismiss it today as little more than a nostalgic look at Hollywood's primitive beginnings . Both are likable enough and the set-up is good for laughs , as they visit a park and interact with an organ grinder and his monkey . This leads to the scenes were Mabel is alone at home letting her imagination run away her and suspecting that the gangster described in the newspaper is trying to get into her home . The mysterious quiver of the drapes frightens her for awhile , until the moment arrives when the organ grinder himself dares to part the curtains and reveal the culprit to be his monkey . What strikes me most about the early silent films is the tackiness of the sets , not to mention the unbelievable bad taste in set decoration and furnishings . This is especially true here , as Mabel's house is a house of horrors as far as " set decoration " is concerned . Summing up : Watchable but certainly not the best of the duo's collaborations .
How exeriments with mice helped educators learn about child behavior . . .	A rather tame , boring short subject from John Nesbitt's " Passing Parade " purports to show how the behavior of mice can be studied in relation to the interaction of school children . It begins with a 1910 schoolhouse scene to show old-fashioned teaching methods and soon reverts to the ' 40s to show what a difference there is between today's manner of instruction with the knowledge that " all children do not learn in the same way " - - tracing the new knowledge to experiments made with white mice who are rewarded for finding food by finding their way through a maze . There's even the suggestion that an inferiority complex can develop when one of the mice realizes that he's going to lose the competition for the third time and stays within his confines . It's an interesting theory and it's sufficiently developed within the short running time of this short . Should appeal to anyone in the psychiatric or educational field , but not likely to impress anyone else sufficiently . Directed by George Sidney , who later became one of MGM's workmanlike directors of film musicals like " Show Boat " .
Overbloated musical with Barbra doing her Mae West imitation . . .	BARBRA STREISAND's Dolly Levi seems to borrow heavily from Mae West's way with a spoken line , but when she sings any of the Jerry Herman songs she does them justice . Clearly , she's not the right age for the matchmaker role but this is just one of the film's flaws . The film itself is so over-produced , so decked out with fancy scenery that it looks as though no expense was spared to recreate Little Old New York in the upper Hudson valley and a village of gingerbread houses all gleaming immaculately while the costumed cast strolls along its newly paved streets . And they do stroll and they do sing . . . in endless musical numbers , some of which are quite dazzling before they become downright tedious from overkill . Somewhere along the line , director Gene Kelly lost his way . He and Stanley Donen collaborated but may have tried sticking too close to the Broadway play to give the movie any sense of cinema magic . And the youngsters played by Danny Lockin and Michael Crawford are too obviously over-the-top in an effort to be cute comics . Crawford's Cornelius is such a far cry from his later Broadway " Phantom " that it's almost incredible to believe it's the same actor . WALTER MATTHAU and Streisand did not get along during the shooting and this is sometimes evident in their byplay . Whatever , he's looked much more comfortable in other roles . Harry Sradling , Jr . ' s technicolor cinematography is top-notch . Summing up : Not the worst musical ever made , but hardly among the best .
Overlong show biz drama is showcase for Bette Midler . . .	FOR THE BOYS manages to be entertaining although there are a lot of things wrong with it - - notably , the make-up job for Midler's aging process and some vulgarity in the lines she utters that seem like anachronisms given the time period begins with the ' 40s-era and women in show biz weren't quite that vulgar in front of U . S . troops . JAMES CAAN does a snappy job of playing her self-absorbed , sexist song-and-dance husband who treats the various wars like a chance to strut his stuff before appreciative audiences , while Midler's character comes to understand the seriousness of war and what it does to America's finest young men , especially when her own son is killed during their act in Korea . Midler is especially good in the early sequences where she gets to do pretty much the sort of brassy routines she started out doing in show business . Here she plays a U . S . O . singer who joins a World War II tour run by Caan . It's not exactly a case of love at first sight - - in fact , it's a clash of two strong egos that remains pretty tumultuous throughout the film . Patterned obviously after the careers of show biz troupers like Bob Hope and the sort of shows he put on for servicemen throughout the various wars , it's entertaining despite its length and owes most of its ability to hold interest due to Midler's self-confident central performance . She's a real trouper and steals just about every scene she's in . GEORGE SEGAL does a nice job as a writer mistreated by Caan who gets his revenge at an unusual Christmas party playing Santa . Midler is at her best when singing a few songs in her own inimitable style but the film drags whenever it deals with the more serious aspects of the story . CHRISTOPHER RYDELL ( the director Mark Rydell's son ) is terribly miscast as Midler's son and furthermore , looks nothing like the two youngsters that play him as a young boy . He's inept in a key scene where he talks about the horrors of war . It's an ambitious saga of show biz and war , but something about it seems awfully clichéd and artificial no matter how artfully director Mark Rydell has directed certain scenes . Summing up : A must for Midler fans and James Caan is good too as the aging scoundrel .
Beyond all reason . . . a curious misfire . . .	With Fritz Lang in the director's chair , this should have been a much tighter , more suspenseful film than it actually is . Part of the problem is the script - - the characters portrayed by Dana Andrews and Joan Fontaine are poorly written . Fontaine , in particular , has little to do with the scheme of things and Andrews is so good at being an anti-hero that he makes the character even more unpleasant than he has to be . Barbara Nichols stands out in a good supporting role as a brassy blonde showgirl and Sidney Blackmer as a man who concocts the scheme that lands Andrews in prison is excellent . And by the way , contrary to what a viewer states here , Donna Reed is nowhere in the supporting cast . Aside from that , the outcome leaves you baffled . It's a surprise , all right , but it all seems to be too patly contrived - - a twist upon twist that stretches credibility to the limit . A letdown feeling is the overall result of the deceptive ending . A tight-lipped Dana Andrews and a sophisticated Joan Fontaine ( too frosty as his loyal fiancé ) have both done better work . Fontaine has one of her weakest roles , but the film's biggest flaw is the way it toys with the viewer's expectations and then fails to deliver that final punch . Definitely one of Fritz Lang's lesser works .
Wheeler and Woolsey in odd pre-code comedy . . .	Any enjoyment you get from KENTUCKY KERNELS will depend on whether or not you can view the film in the context of its time and accept all of the foolishness with that in mind . Otherwise , it's not a particularly rewarding way to view Wheeler and Woolsey . Surely , their reputation was based on better material than this . The thin plot has the boys adopting SPANKY McFARLAND from an orphanage run by MARGARET DUMONT . He's a cute little bundle but has a penchant for breaking glass at every opportunity - - and the script gives him plenty of excuses . Unfortunately , most of the gags are the kind of one-liners that must have killed vaudeville , delivered in brisk style but corny nevertheless . LUCILLE LaVERNE shows up as an old dowager ( she was the voice for The Wicked Queen in Disney's " Snow White " ) , and MARY CARLISLE is the love interest for one of the boys . The politically correct will be insulted by the WILLIE BEST racial humor in scenes where the boys go south . Strictly a product of its time , ending in a skirmish between a Hatfield and McCoy type of family feud .
Lives up to its title and then some . . .	I realize I'm in the minority by not being a gushing fan of potty humor and a lot of scatological and very graphic sound effects , but DUMB AND DUMBER is definitely a movie that clicked with its targeted audience . And I can't ignore the fact that JIM CARREY and JEFF DANIELS have the ability to mug with the best of them , both showing lots of dexterity with comic material that they play to the hilt . But the film is a series of sight and sound gags more than a tightly constructed plot and it's just a matter of time before the Beavis and Butt-head type of guys driving cross country to return a valuable suitcase to its pretty owner ( LAUREN HOLLY ) would drive any normal person insane with their stupidity . The joke with the state trooper is probably the low point of all the tasteless humor , but here too , I'm sure I'm in the minority . Seems to be the highlight for others inclined to view potty humor as nothing more than harmless fun . If this sort of low comedy appeals to you , it's a funfest of crude jokes and imbecilic humor . It's either a comic masterpiece or a dud of titanic proportions , depending on your point of view . Carrey won a " Razzie " award as worst new star - - although I don't agree with that designation at all . He's obviously a hyperactive , manic personality who can give Robin Williams a run for his money - - and Daniels , too , is a talented chap . But I just wish they had a script more worthy of their peculiar talents .
Rathbone stars in well-mounted but poor horror flick from the ' 50s . . .	BASIL RATHBONE gives dignity to his role as a doctor intent on practicing advanced medical theories on selective patients . In other words , he's a mad doctor in this horror flick from the late ' 50s that starts out interestingly enough , but soon falls into Ed Wood territory with its story of ghouls living within the confines of Rathbone's dungeon , all of whom are ex-patients whose brains have been destroyed by his handiwork . HERBERT RUDLEY is a young doctor that Rathbone releases from prison by use of " the Black Death " , which makes Rudley seem dead so that Rathbone can transport his body to his dark mansion where he restores him to life and asks him to be his assistant in his important experiments . As Rudley realizes what's going on , he rebels against Rathbone with the help of a young woman not yet victimized . The story weakens after the first half-hour and from then on it's strictly a freak show without any real merit . The presence of LON CHANEY , JR . and BELA LUGOSI in mute roles does nothing to raise the film to quality level . Nor do the ravings of JOHN CARRADINE help matters . Sad to see Rathbone's descent in this sort of horror material .
Madame X on a budget . . . but oh , what melodramatic courtroom proceedings !	First of all , let me say that GLADYS GEORGE does a remarkably fine job as " Madame X " . But whomever decided to do the final courtroom scenes with an over-the-top argument by her lawyer son and hysterics from the woman on the stand , well . . . this maudlin scene reduces whatever credibility Miss George gives to her role . The final courtroom scenes are just too over-baked even by 1930 standards of the tear-jerker . The cast is competent enough but the production has the look of an A-film given a B-budget , helped somewhat by the presence of actors like Warren Williams , Reginald Denny and Henry Daniell in the cast . GLADYS GEORGE does the slattern extremely well , looking very much like a woman under the influence not only because of the realistic make-up but because of her very posture and mannerisms . Toward the end , during the final meeting with her son in jail , she looks like the broken woman she is supposed to be . All of this was rehashed in the 1960s with LANA TURNER in the title role . Turner was fine and almost matched George in the final scenes of degradation . But in this version , Sam Wood should have tempered the melodrama in the climactic courtroom scene . Instead , there is no restraint whatsoever . He lets JOHN BEAL ( as George's son ) go on too long on a sentimental monologue that defies credibility . This scene alone is so overplayed that it makes the film strictly a product of the 1930s . The mother / son angle of the ' 60's version ( between Turner and Kier Dullea ) was done with much more restraint and believability and had the touching effect needed to make the tear-jerker work .
Thrift shop version of B'way musical drops most of the songs . . .	When Universal-International decided to film ONE TOUCH OF VENUS from the Broadway musical by Kurt Weill they dropped most of the songs , gave it the B & W treatment instead of Technicolor , cast AVA GARDNER in the title role ( a non-singer dubbed by Eileen Wilson ) , and gave boyish ROBERT WALKER , then at the height of his earnest charm as a young leading man and produced it on a low-budget scale . Aside from giving viewers a generous look at AVA GARDNER's charms , it does little else but provide tepid entertainment depending on one memorable song for its sole distinction as a musical : " Speak Low " . It's passable enough but the one joke theme of the plot whereby a department store mannequin turns into the real life " Venus " when an adoring employee kisses her , is about all there is to the so called book of this musical . If looking at Ava is enough , you'll have plenty of time to do exactly that - - while DICK HAYMES , OLGA SAN JUAN and TOM CONWAY do little to stir things up in any other direction . Haymes is wasted on a couple of forgettable songs . Too bad the studio didn't have more faith in transferring the original to the screen including the Kurt Weill score . As it is , it definitely falls far short of the mark .
Artificial , claustrophobic thriller fails to do the job . . .	With a promising premise for starters , BEWARE , MY LOVELY offers nothing more than a modest amount of suspense but fails to deliver the goods , despite good performances from IDA LUPINO and ROBERT RYAN . The trouble is the script that confines the story to a single setting which soon becomes tedious to view as none of the visuals are particularly impressive . The only real interest is in watching the behavior of Robert Ryan's handyman , obviously suffering from some sort of mental defect with the audience never quite sure whether he's a murderer or not . Nor is Lupino's inability to alert anyone to her situation plotted in a believable way . Both Ryan and Lupino handled their roles in ON DANGEROUS GROUND with more skill than they do here , thanks to the script limitations . Based on a play by Mel Dinelli ( " The Man " ) , the film clearly could have used direction that would have turned the story into a taut tale of terror and suspense . Director Harry Horner ( often a set designer , as in the case of " The Heiress " ) , fails to do so here . The set here is an integral part of the story but it too has its limitations . Summing up : An abrupt ending is no help at all . Too bad more time wasn't spent developing a script that would work better on the screen .
Low-key tale with Jekyll-Hyde as background material . . .	Here's a film that , given it has a Jekyll-Hyde background for the main story told from the viewpoint of a maid in his employ , and played with modesty and restraint by JULIA ROBERTS , should have been much more captivating than it is . The performances are not at fault , nor is the very accurate looking Victorian look of the fog-bound London streets and the costuming of the entire cast . It definitely has the right brooding atmosphere and look . But somehow , it never comes to life . Perhaps because there's no spark to Roberts ' performance , all very muted and one-key with eyes downcast in maidenly humility and later , in wide-eyed fear . But it's JOHN MALKOVICH who is the more interesting character ( not surprisingly ) as the Dr . Jekyll she works for and gradually ( very gradually I might say ) comes to suspect has a darker side . Sometimes it pushes all the right buttons and there's an air of menace hanging over even the quietest moments thanks to the brooding atmosphere and subdued photography . But it never quite becomes imaginative enough to pull off the story with any real finesse . It's a disappointment , the kind of story that should linger in the memory , but doesn't . GLENN CLOSE and CIARIN HINDS do well in lesser roles but are really only background filler . Box-office response was less than usual for a Julia Roberts film , and it's easy to see why .
Tepid , pointless remake is no improvement on the original . . .	TCM's " Lost and Found " series of RKO films continues with yet another remake of RAFTER ROMANCE ( with Ginger Rogers and Norman Foster ) , the story of two people who never meet although they're roommates sharing the same flat . They never meet because they're on different work shifts . It's a story that worked its charm with Ginger but doesn't seem to have the same snap here . It's familiar ground and this time serves as a vehicle for JAMES DUNN and WHITNEY BOURNE with some comic assistance from FRANKLIN PANGBORN and JOAN WOODBURY . Pangborn has the Robert Benchley role of the lecherous wolf but is slightly less credible with his prissy attitude . These Depression-era comedies are really hard to relate to today , what with $15 a month rent being a hardship that has to be shared by another . It was a different world in 1937 - - and clearly , the Depression wasn't quite over . At any rate , this is practically a scene by scene remake of RAFTER ROMANCE with no noticeable improvement in dialog , style or pace . In other words , it's pointless . Every aspect of the flimsy and familiar plot is badly dated , and the pranks that the two unknown roommates play on each other are more mean spirited than funny . The animal prank scenes ( which did not take place in the original ) are beyond ridiculous . Nor are any of the other changes an improvement under the feeble direction of Lew Landers . Summing up : Watch the original and forget this one . It's a real loser .
Cagney's debut in forgettable potboiler . . .	I could tell from the trailer for SINNERS ' HOLIDAY that this is a film I could very well do without viewing - - but I tuned in to see Cagney in his debut performance . This is a museum piece , creaky in plot and development with abysmal stage dialogue and unnatural performances from GRANT WITHERS and EVELYN KNAPP , both of whom get top billing but neither one able to act their way out of a paper bag . JAMES CAGNEY has the thankless role of the son caught up in a murder charge , a n'er-do-well punk with a trampy girlfriend ( JOAN BLONDELL in unflattering make-up and hairstyle ) , and a harridan for a mother ( LUCILLE La VERNE ) , the woman who gave The Witch a voice in Disney's " Snow White " several years later . None of these characters have any depth or engage the viewer for more than a few seconds . La Verne is particularly unpleasant in the central mother role . Summing up : Nothing good to say about this one , except that Cagney alone deserves praise for his crying scene . He really throws himself into the part . This is obviously a quickie churned out by the Warner factory in the early ' 30s as a part of their crime drama series .
Too many distracting process shots with actors in front of filmed backgrounds . . .	RKO must have had a very small budget to work with when they made " The Falcon in Mexico " , using stock footage of actual location photography but process photography for all of the studio shots with actors in front of the screened location backgrounds . It becomes such a distraction that there's a tendency not to follow the plot after awhile but just to watch how often the actors are in Hollywood rather than Mexico . Whatever , the story is not intriguing enough and nobody seems to be trying very hard to bring it to life . Even the usually vivacious MARTHA VICKERS ( who played the nymphomaniac in THE BIG SLEEP ) has a hard time conveying any genuine emotion while she pines for her long lost father , while others in the cast are competent enough but not really inspired . NESTOR PAIVA has the best supporting role as an overly enthusiastic but helpful taxi driver called Manuel . Nevertheless , Conway does a decent job as the debonair detective who has the same interest as the police in solving a crime , but seems to be avoiding them at every turn . Some of the background photography is well filmed , but using process shots for scenes involving the actors is too obvious for comfort . Summing up : All in all , a passable B-film entertainment .
Painfully corny MGM short spotlights George Murphy and Virginia Grey . . .	Every cliché imaginable is present in this little 21-minute short from MGM , circa 1936 , featuring GEORGE MURPHY and VIRGINIA GREY as a pair of business-like office workers who find romance through the intervention of a janitor ( CHRISTIAN RUB ) who's been taking psychology courses at night . Rub is a familiar face as a character actor during the ' 30s . He was the voice and model for Walt Disney's Gepetto and gives this short film its most spirited performance . Leonid Kinskey is another familiar face as the piano playing neighbor . Nice seeing Virginia Grey and George Murphy whirl around the dance floor and do some neat dance steps , but the plot is a trifle even for a short subject and is not helped by hapless dialog and the truly cornball situations . Grey looks beautiful and it's a pity her career never really landed her a star-making role , and Murphy is just amiable . Summing up : Entertaining as a curiosity piece .
At least a change of scenery for the debonair Falcon . . .	Not too much can be said for THE FALCON OUT WEST except that it moves swiftly to its conclusion after establishing a few red herrings that make the revelation of the real murderer a somewhat mild surprise . TOM CONWAY plays the suave detective who happens to be present when LYLE TALBOT ( as a wealthy Texan ) suddenly is struck by a snakebite poison and collapses . His death immediately throws suspicion on several shady characters who might have profited by inheriting his wealth . The Falcon goes west to a ranch run by MINOR WATSON , Tex's former partner and his daughter BARBARA HALE , where mysterious attempts on his life make it clear that someone wants him out of the way before he solves the crime . Hale is her usual charming self but her role is very underwritten . CAROLE GALLAGHER , as the young blonde fiancé of the wealthy Texan , looks like a double for the young Lana Turner but lacks the Turner charisma and seems no more than a bland beauty . Nothing special , but it passes the time pleasantly with Conway doing an excellent job as the Falcon .
As daffy as any Marx Brothers comedy - - a farce about crowded Washington , D . C . in wartime . . .	I was so busy watching ANN SHERIDAN looking so great that I had a hard time keeping track of the zany plot . She really had a flair for comedy , even this kind of absurd farce , that it's a shame she was never given better scripts . JANE WYMAN plays the sort of dumb blonde that made Marilyn famous ( only she's a brunette here ) - - but she too is saddled with overly dumb remarks that even JACK Carson has a hard time swallowing . And ALEXIS SMITH proves that behind that frozen puss she has a real sense of humor . Catch the scene where she stoops to telling a tale of woe in a Brooklyn accent ! Incidentally , her boyfriend in the film is the man she eventually married in real life - - CRAIG REYNOLDS . I don't fault the actors . CHARLES RUGGLES is actually quite good as a businessman attracted to Wyman . And character actor JOHN RIDGELY gets to play a prominent supporting role as Sheridan's fiancé with a good deal of amiable charm and skill . For these reasons alone , the film is worth watching despite the over-baked ham . But beware of most of the farce , which is directed with the finesse of a sledgehammer bearing down on all the lines , emphasized by big close-ups of the cast in wide-eyed reaction shots in case we don't get the point . It's another in a number of wartime films ( WWII ) emphasizing the overcrowded hotel conditions in Washington , D . C . from the very opening shot - - similar to " The More the Merrier " and " Government Girl . " Terribly overdone , downright hammy performances from everyone including EVE ARDEN as " a Russian Sergeant York " who shoots her rifle from the terrace . Jane Wyman's character gets annoying after the first few remarks and from then on I kept my eyes on Sheridan . Her reactions are priceless , if a bit over-the-top . Trivia note : MARK STEVENS has only a couple of lines to say during one of the crowded hotel scenes as Reynolds ' Army friend and NATALIE SCHAEFER has no lines at all as a woman holding a baby .
Terrible bio but good period flavor . . .	As a bio of the witty writer Dorothy Parker , this film is a dud . We have JENNIFER JASON LEIGH , correctly attired in period costume and hairdo , but rattling about in scenes of overlapping dialog and barely discernible comments being muttered by her under her breath . A striking performance ? I don't think so . Leigh strikes out here , just as she struck out when she attempted to win plaudits for her Catherine Sloper in WASHINGTON SQUARE . Nice period atmosphere , sets , costumes and music can't make up for an utterly aimless script that is as empty as the babble going on among the sophisticated literate circle Parker was a part of . She gets some nice support from a cast of competent players but since the whole film depends on understanding what makes Parker tick , it's got to be called a failure . Parker deserved better than this . Hopefully , some day someone with a sense of how to bring her to life will do so with a script that can make us sympathize with the characterization instead of the sketchy view we get here . Nor does it help that few of the characters bear any physical resemblance to the people they're portraying . Did they know what Robert Benchley looked like ?
Depressing story with Olivier landing in the gutter . . .	CARRIE has the distinction of being one of William Wyler's most depressing films . It's peopled by such unlikeable , unappealing characters that by the time it's over and LAURENCE OLIVIER lands in a flophouse while JENNIFER JONES has achieved success , it has a deja vu feeling that you've seen this tale before in a little something called A STAR IS BORN . The production values are splendid , as you would expect in a Paramount film under Wyler's auspices , and the supporting cast includes EDDIE ALBERT ( as a traveling salesman , the kind he's played before ) , and MIRIAM HOPKINS ( as a shrewish wife who doesn't give the viewer any sympathy for her character ) . Motivations by the principal characters are somewhat muddied which is probably a script problem , but I lost interest in the tale long before it reached its painful end . It failed to win any acclaim from the critics except for Olivier's performance and was doomed to box-office failure . Watching it now , one can understand why it failed . It's certainly not one of William Wyler's greatest achievements , as some of these commentaries would lead you to believe .
Semi-effective sci-fi story from Alistair MacLean novel . . . ahead of its time . . .	The biggest drawback of THE Satan BUG is the slow pace at which director John Sturges has chosen to tell this tale of laboratory espionage and a mad scientist . Fortunately for viewers , the pace quickens in the latter portion of the story and overall the results are pretty satisfying . RICHARD BASEHART is the mad scientist and GEORGE MAHARIS is the man chosen by the government to track him down . The story gets off to a slow start with an extended laboratory sequence with a remote desert setting as security is violated . It takes forty-five minutes before we learn that a vial containing " the satin bug " has been stolen and will be unleashed upon mankind unless an insane plea is granted . Additionally , we learn that Maharis suspects it's an inside job that permitted the virus to be in the hands of a mad millionaire out to destroy Los Angeles . With this sort of plot line , this ought to be a taut exercise in suspense . It's not . Most of the blame goes to a script heavy with exposition for the first hour before the threats become clear . Once the plan to capture the scientist and his cohorts on the run is set into motion , the picture picks up pace and acquires some tension . A tired looking RICHARD BASEHART is less than impressive as a man impersonating Dr . Hoffman who engineers the plan . DANA ANDREWS , although distinguished looking with gray hair as the father of ANNE FRANCIS , is wasted in a minor role . Summing up : The payoff at the finale isn't big enough to atone for a dull first hour . Result is a mixed bag of an espionage thriller .
Down South Americ way . . . the old and new in Peru . . .	ADVENTURES IN SOUTH America is a cursory look at Peru of ' 46 , showing the contrast between the Old Peru and primitive farmers and thatched huts and the new modern cities like Lima . It starts with a look at the old , including a mixture of old and new costumes that can be seen in the market in La Paz . Colorful costumes are adorned during fiesta days and we see the Lake Chiticaca area where sailing crafts and riverboats glide on the waters . We take a look at Inca cities where walls and streets were built by primitive building standards but still stand today . Peruvian farmers and their wives work in the fields . We see a swinging bridge made of fiber ( and expect to see Indiana Jones crossing at any moment ) , and stop for awhile at Lima , a colonial town founded by Pizarro in the 1500s and updated with modern construction as the capital of Peru . The documentary closes with a look along the Amazon where the savage headhunter tribes are shown standing around in a group , and nearby are the head trophies decorated and preserved in a fancy manner . Colorful but rather dull in the manner of presentation .
Cesar Romero is a priest helping a runaway boy and his dog in Mexico . . .	TCM claims that the film was never released because the producer couldn't find a distributor for it in 1963 , and that it languished in film vaults for years , unseen and on the shelf . Well , as it turns out , THE RUNAWAY isn't anything special . In fact it's a rather dreary story of a runaway boy ( ROGER MOBLEY ) and his Greyhound dog befriended by a Mexican priest ( CESAR ROMERO ) who has to reform the boy's life style of cheating and stealing before the final reel . It's the sort of tale that has been done countless times before , nothing new in the way of material . Unfortunately , the print shown on TCM did not meet the standards for cinematography that Robert Osborne spoke of when he mentioned that it was photographed by award winning cinematographer Haskell Wexler , lacking contrast in shades of B & W that merely gave the film a washed out look . Nice to report that Cesar Romero is fine as the well-intentioned priest who has to contend with the rambunctious youth and that the film ends on a satisfactory note with a nice reunion between boy and dog . Claudio Guzman directed , but there's nothing much to recommend here except for Romero's convincing performance in a serious role . Robley , in the main role , is not exactly star material .
Style without substance . . .	MULHOLLAND FALLS is a wannabe version of films like CHINATOWN and L . A . CONFIDENTIAL , but neither the script nor the direction has anything approaching either one . NICK NOLTE is a tough police officer leading a squad of men who make their own rules when rounding up the usual suspects . He becomes involved in the mysterious murder of a woman he had an affair with ( JENNIFER CONNOLLY ) and his marriage to MELANIE GRIFFITH reaches a dead end when she discovers the truth about it on a reel of film he never wanted her to see . SPOILER AHEAD The plot is too convoluted to describe here , but it leads to the most interesting highlight , an encounter with military men TREAT WILLIAMS and KYLE CHANDLER aboard an Air Force plane with an open door that Williams explains is " for parachute jumpers " . But NICK NOLTE and CHAZZ PALMINTERI are suddenly aware of the fate in store for them - - the same fate that happened to JENNIFER CONNOLLY when she learned too much about a military plan involving the Atomic Energy Commission and some sick patients in a hospital ward . It's an intriguing scene and is staged for maximum effect . It's the link to the Atomic Energy Commission and JOHN MALKOVICH that really throws the plot into turmoil and seems a weak contrivance of the scriptwriter to give the story importance with this link . Unfortunately , it just scrambles the plot further - - a plot already jumbled to the point where it resembles a jigsaw puzzle . Nolte wears his fedora all the time ( as do most of the men to remind us this is a period piece ) , chain smokes , uses his tough guy persona to intimidate everyone in sight , including co-stars JOHN MALKOVICH , KYLE CHANDLER , TREAT WILLIAMS and DANIEL BALDWIN . BRUCE DERN has a forgettable cameo ( unbilled ) and MELANIE GRIFFITH makes almost no impression as Nolte's disillusioned wife . Director Lee Tambori strives for style and period atmosphere so that the film will bear some resemblance to the much better CHINATOWN and L . A . CONFIDENTIAL , but it doesn't work . Instead , the film is a heavy handed crime melodrama with only one scene that really crackles with tension before the plot is over . Nolte gives a one-note performance in the leading role .
Another in the " Rusty " series with an obvious message . . .	From the outset , the viewer has to be aware that this is a story about the boy who cried Wolf once too often , so that no one believed him when the wolf actually attacked . It's a message wrapped up tidily in a harmless little programmer from Columbia , MY DOG RUSTY , again starring TED DONALDSON as the boy who seems incapable of staying out of trouble until the happy ending . This time he's a meddler in the affairs of a woman doctor ( MONA BARRIE ) and her experiments on bacteria-laden water and , even more importantly , in the affairs of his father ( JOHN LITEL ) who has a hard time running for mayor when his son is accused of being a liar . The dog " Rusty " does a commendable job of looking interested in whatever is going on , although there are times when he seems to be acting strictly on cue from a man on the sidelines who gets a full share of glances when the camera is turning . He's not , in my opinion , in the same league with MGM's famous collie , Lassie . The kids all sound like kids reading their lines for the first time and only Donaldson delivers a fairly natural performance as the boy who learns all of his lessons the hard way . It passes the time quickly and obviously was designed to fill the second half of a double bill back in the good old days of double features . ANN DORAN is again the boy's protective mother , but JOHN LITEL has the biggest part as the boy's occasionally stern parent baffled by his son's growing up years .
Minor search drama from MGM to give Keel non-singing role . . .	HOWARD KEEL was MGM's robust baritone who would still be making big musicals for his home studio - - but DESPERATE SEARCH was designed to keep the actor busy when there were no musical assignments ready for him . It's strictly a programmer for the bottom half of a double bill , running only one hour and thirteen minutes . Keel acquits himself well - - strong and earnest - - as the pilot who is part of a search organized to find his two children missing in a plane crash . His ex-wife , PATRICIA MEDINA , is on hand to stir up a little love rivalry over his affections . JANE GREER is the current wife , anxious that the organizers listen to her husband's idea of where to look for the downed plane . KEENAN WYNN is Keel's pilot friend . The children are shown stranded in the wilds of British Columbia with a cougar lurking nearby adding danger to their already dire situation . LEE AAKER plays the sturdy and resourceful youngster with the sister who is hysterical most of the time - - something that could have been toned down a bit for my taste . An interesting trifle with nice work from Keel , Greer and Medina .
The TV shows were better . . .	After the opening prologue with DAN AKYROYD and ALBERT BROOKS , as bored drivers on a lonely country highway who like to play pranks , TWILIGHT ZONE : THE MOVIE offers four stories , supposedly in the vein of stories that Rod Serling wrote for the famous TV series . Not until the final segment , NIGHTMARE AT 20 , 000 FEET does it offer the kind of fright stuff worthy of being in this anthology . And it's a minor gem of its kind with JOHN LITHGOW giving an amazingly deft performance as a man totally afraid of flying who should have taken tranquilizers before he peered out the window . What he saw on the wing of the plane would have frightened anyone out of their wits - - and , of course , no one believes him . It's this final episode that makes the film itself worth watching . None of the other segments have enough punch to keep the viewer awake , let alone entertained . VIC MORROW's unfortunate accident came about during filming of a Vietnam sequence which does not appear in this version of the film - - but he does give a convincing portrait of a bigot who gets his comeuppance . Very ironic . Summing up : All of these stories were told with more style and suspense on the old TV shows . Strictly second-rate .
Charlie Chan and black magic . . . routine entry . . .	The only ingredient of BLACK MAGIC that is any different from the other Chan films is the amount of time given to MANTAN MORELAND as the frightened wide-eyed black man who serves as comedy relief . A few of the gags are amusing enough , but it's a one joke routine that wears thin after the first half-hour . SIDNEY TOLER is the Chinese detective , this time abetted by his daughter ( FRANCES CHAN ) as they attempt to find the truth about some weird happenings at a seance run by JACQUELINE DeWITT . There are the usual dumb detectives on the case , always outsmarted by Chan who always knows much more information about the killer at lodge than we do . It's typical Charlie Chan in a story without much scope and definitely just another low-budget entry in the series - - and certainly nothing out of the ordinary . The only real difference , as stated above , is the emphasis on humor .
One gag does not make a whole film . . .	Here's a Max Linder short that runs too long when it's based on a single incident at the beach . He attempts to take a photo of a woman in a bathing suit ( and she's no beauty ) , waiting while she swims around like she thinks she's an early embodiment of Esther Williams . He's waiting for her to emerge so he can snap the photo , but she fools him by diving beneath the sea ( like an overweight mermaid ) and running ashore some distance away so he doesn't see her . Naturally , he thinks she's drowned and attracts quite a crowd with his frantic arm waving , all of whom think a woman has just disappeared in the water . When she emerges from the bathhouse , fear turns to joy . That's it , for the plot . It's all very primitive looking , none of the sight gags are memorable and it runs too long - - even for a short . Summing up : Not worth a peek .
Except for the fire - - just awful ! !	I love ALICE FAYE , TYRONE POWER and DON AMECHE when they have a good script , great tunes and wonderful direction - - as in ALEXANDER'S RAGTIME BAND . But IN OLD CHICAGO is insufferable in terms of story , pacing , acting and any sense of reality until the O'Leary cow knocks over that lantern . Then we're treated to one of the best fire sequences ever shown on screen - - long before the aid of computer technology . If only the rest of the picture had been able to match the fire ! Faye is given some over-the-top costuming which cheapens her overall appearance to such an extent that it's hard to see why she's the main attraction for Ameche and Power . Power was still at the pretty boy stage of his good looks and his acting had not quite jelled when he did this role . The fight sequence between him and Ameche is well handled though . Ameche simply fades into the background as the good brother . Faye was said to be pleased with the fact that she was given a more dramatic role for a change . Unfortunately , not much can be said with what she did with this opportunity . Alice Brady is up to the demands of her role as the O'Leary mother who wants her sons to make their mark in the world . However , the film comes to life only for the final twenty minutes or so of fire . Otherwise , it's got a story as dull as dishwater and provides Alice Faye with one of her least appealing roles . It makes ALEXANDER'S RAGTIME BAND look like a masterpiece . It takes much too long to get to that famous 1871 fire .
Barely entertaining short benefits from Dean Stockwell's performance . . .	Surely , a better story could have evolved around a boy required to write an essay on " A Very Important Person " and choosing to name his father as recipient of the honor . In this lackluster short , the boy suddenly decides that his hard working father ( a traffic cop ) is worthy of being the subject of his prize-winning essay . DEAN STOCKWELL , one of the few natural child actors , is impressive in the central role as the boy who gradually comes to realize that he doesn't have to look far for a worthy subject . Perhaps if the father had a strong role in the proceedings , the ending might be more believable . As it is , it's a weak message delivered in a routine way by MGM . Contract player CONNIE GILCHRIST has a small role as Dean's hard-working mother . Narrated by John Nesbitt , it's a bit pretentious and easy to skip .
Hedy Lamarr is a beautiful but boring enigma as a woman of mystery . . .	All the ingredients that made CASABLANCA such a mega-hit are present in THE CONSPIRATORS , but not one of the ingredients is able to put the film over the top as a story of intrigue , espionage and romance . What's surprising is that the film fails to sustain interest despite a great supporting cast that includes PETER LORRE , SYDNEY GREENSTREET and VICTOR FRANCEN . Also surprising is the fact that it's directed by Jean Negulesco , who did such a brilliant job on the direction of JOHNNY BELINDA . The script is a talky , muddled bit of contrivances and clichés , with Henried as a Dutch freedom fighter in Lisbon clashing with the Nazis and falling under the spell of a beautiful woman who guards her secrets . HEDY LAMARR is lovely , of course , but her characterization is so paper-thin that all we can really see is her exotic glamor , without much passion or feeling below the make-up . Nor is PAUL HENRIED seen at his best , more remote than usual in what should have been a much stronger role but is dulled by a witless script and a co-star with whom he has very little chemistry . The convoluted plot doesn't give the supporting actors much to do and it's somewhat of a relief when the story comes to downbeat ending .
Weak musical comedy has a few compensations but not enough . . .	The lavish production values and a few good comic performances from J . CARROL NAISH , MILDRED NATWICK and BILLY GILBERT are not enough to save THE KISSING BANDIT from a witless script . It's an MGM musical in which there are only two compensations : KATHRYN GRAYSON effectively warbling " Love Is Where You Find It " and an interesting Spanish-style menage-a-trois dance routine performed vigorously by RICHARDO MONTALBAN , CYD CHARISSE and ANN MILLER . There's a Zorro-like flavor to the inept storyline that has FRANK SINATRA masquerading as his bandit father , " the kissing bandit , " and wooing the lovely governor's daughter , Grayson , who has the camera in love with her most of the time . Sinatra looks uncomfortable throughout and one can't blame him but he does manage to croon a couple of ballads in his easy style . It looks as though MGM had the use of leftover sets from THE PIRATE , but the color photography , sets and costumes are lavish enough on their own to elevate the film to passable entertainment for Sinatra fans and those who fancy Grayson's rather shrill soprano voice . Summing up : The dance trio ( Montalban , Charisse and Miller ) easily steal the show with their fascinating Spanish dance .
Overdone slapstick made me yawn . . .	This is a Max Linder short , a domestic comedy about a man trying to fend for himself when his wife returns to her mother . It's the " Mr . Mom " of silent films . It's the sort of thing Chaplin and Keaton would do later on with better results . The film is divided into segments titled : Household Troubles , Washing Dishes , The Market , House Cleaning , Where Is That Tie ? All of them lead to explosive mishaps with the house turned upside down for the final segment as he wakes up in the morning and searches for his missing tie . His wife and mother-in-law arrive at the finale and find him in a state of panic and the house a mess . Despite all the effort that obviously went into making this short - - and all the destruction - - the whole plot is taken to the extreme with the overdone slapstick . This can't be one of Linder's best , but at least it survived pretty much intact while most of his short films have been lost .
Dull , badly acted werewolf tale from Columbia is a real yawner . . .	CRY OF THE WEREWOLF is on the level of an Ed Wood film , a surprisingly bad little programmer from Columbia with NINA FOCH heading the cast . Her transition from human to werewolf is so poorly staged with shadows that it's laughable . The script is dull , full of exposition for the first half-hour , and populated by some hardly competent actors . Worst of all is STEPHEN CRANE ( he was Lana Turner's husband - - twice ) , whose performance has to rank among the worst in recent memory for one who has been watching Halloween films on TCM . OSA MASSEN isn't much better but at least tries to convey her part with more feeling than Crane is able to muster . Nina Foch plays Marie LaTour , a woman in a travelling gypsy wagon who is actually a werewolf , killing to keep her secret from others . Maybe someone like Val Lewton could have pulled this thing together , but Henry Levin's direction is no help at all and the script is a mess . Summing up : A trite tale , poorly written and acted , not worth your time and a vehicle certainly unworthy of Miss Foch's talent . Trivia : Inexplicably , the two best performances in the film are uncredited - - JOHN ABBOTT as Peter and FRITZ LEIBER as Dr . Morris .
It's a wonder Jane Wyman ever became a star at Warner Bros . . .	CRIME BY NIGHT is a neat little programmer that gives JEROME COWAN one of his few leading roles in films . He was usually the man who supported the big Warner stars in films ranging from MR . SKEFFINGTON to THE MALTESE FALCON , always a reliable character actor . For an up-and-coming contract star , JANE WYMAN was given little to do in this caper , making me wonder how she ever reached full fledged stardom at the studio that insisted on wasting her talent in fluffy , very inconsequential roles in films like this and FLIGHT ANGELS , always the brassy wise-cracking dame before she tackled more serious roles . Another actress with a future at the studio is also on hand in a small part , ELEANOR PARKER , but it's FAYE EMERSON who has the most interesting role and she makes the most of it . The story is a dull contrivance about a vacationing detective ( Cowan ) who helps clear an innocent man of murder . He and Wyman join forces to solve the crime which turns out to be embedded in some sort of spy plot that is never hinted at until the final scene . Summing up : A weak programmer that wastes the Warner contract players .
So-so songs , lame script , lavish production and some good Busby Berkeley touches . . .	This is really a lemon of a musical from Warner Bros . with DICK POWELL as a boy singer who wins a contest that sends the naive guy to Hollywood where he ends up escorting a movie star imposter ( ROSEMARY LANE ) to a Hollywood premiere . Seems Rosemary is impersonating a temperamental diva ( LOLA LANE ) , who overacts in awful style the role of a spoiled movie star who refuses to attend the premiere of her latest musical . None of the songs are the least bit memorable but occasionally director Busby Berkeley gets to improvise and put some of his touches on the camera-work and choreography of assorted group numbers . Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra with Gene Krupa on the drums and a visible Harry James as a member of the band , gets to have a couple of big band segments , and Frances Langford gets to do a brief song with Dick Powell . Raymond Paige and his orchestra do a nice job on a Russian number with chorus and orchestra . These are the film's only highlights . Comedy relief is supplied by Hugh Herbert , Ted Healy , Edgar Kennedy , Allyn Joslyn , Curt Bois , Glenda Farrel and Grant Mitchell , weak as it is . You can catch a glimpse of Ronald Reagan as the MC at the premiere of a new film , Carole Landis as a hatcheck girl in the background of a scene with Hugh Herbert , and Louella Parsons plays herself as a columnist who thinks she's getting the scoop on things . It's a good thing she didn't give up her day job . On the plus side , ROSEMARY LANE is lovely and has a nice singing voice , DICK POWELL does a passable job on some innocuous songs , and GLENDA FARREL has a winning way with some sharp wisecracks . ALAN MOBRAY is painfully bad as an overbearing actor that Powell is hired to sing for , and just about all of the comedy efforts are handicapped by a bad script . LOLA LANE overdoes the diva bit to an almost irritating degree at the start of the film and it all goes downhill from there . Good camera-work , some nice B & W photography of plush interiors , and a few nice touches by Busby Berkeley can't compensate for a cliché-ridden story of boy meets girl in Hollywood , set to some " moon and June " songs that can hardly be called inspired . Summing up : Disappointing musical .
Talky melodrama of love triangle during World War I . . .	Despite some very glossy MGM B & W photography , as shown in the good print of this film aired by TCM , and some attractive sets and very Adrian-created costumes for JOAN CRAWFORD , TODAY WE LIVE is a film as generic as its title . It's hard to distinguish from any other triangle romance except that the war background gives it added interest . The script is a strange affair . It's hard to believe that JOAN CRAWFORD and GARY COOPER would openly declare their deep love for each other after exchanging a few glances across a cup of tea . In the very next scene they're hopelessly in love , with Crawford feeling guilt because she's the fiancé of ROBERT YOUNG . Young's brother is the carefree FRANCHOT TONE ( who walks off with the earlier scenes in the film ) , while ROBERT YOUNG gets his chance to do a fair share of emoting later in the film as his role expands . It's nice seeing these well-known actors at an early stage in their budding careers and still in their prime . For GARY COOPER fans this is nothing special , but Crawford's admirers will find that she was at the height of her photogenic , sculptured beauty despite some odd dress designs by Adrian that don't suggest anything but the studio's line of glamor during the early ' 30s . She wears a boldly designed dress with a strange wing collar that has to be seen to be believed . It's hilarious ! And that's just so she can pour tea with some dignity . The actors all speak in clipped lines . " Good girl , " says Franchot Tone on several occasions , trying to sound like Colonel Blimp , I suppose . And the others too adopt a strange way of clipping phrases so they sound more British . Very funny . It goes into darker territory in the later war scenes and there director Howard Hawks seems more at home . But for a film in which the Joan Crawford character was added as a last minute script change , she certainly gets her fair share of footage and dominates the first forty-five minutes . But the love angle is certainly a strange one . She treats Cooper with rude indifference several times during their first meeting although his behavior is that of the perfect gentleman . Shortly thereafter , she confesses she's in love with him . That's the movies for you .
Slight comedy has a certain Gallic charm . . .	But a film has to have a story to keep it going and this one is so slight , it's almost invisible . It depends heavily on the charm of the two leading players , STEPHANE FREISS and PATSY KENST . They do well enough to keep the chemistry flowing , although some of Kenst's stand-up comic routines are for the birds . Freiss plays a free wheeling spirit , a down on his heels songwriter whose amorous nature leads to a split between the two . The story gets back on the track when they reunite . From there on , it's a charmer with some intriguing French scenery to add to the mix . If this were a big Hollywood romantic comedy , it would probably star someone like Julia Robert and Hugh Grant . Freiss and Kenst don't quite have that sort of star appeal , but they do nicely in what is basically the kind of breezy romantic comedy Hollywood seldom makes any more . There's a happy ending that has the two of them heading for the U . S . when the girl's mother dies - - and presumably , their relationship will end in marriage . Summing up : Breezy trifle passes the time , nothing more .
Blue-eyed Chuck plays Geronimo with a very straight face . . .	There's really nothing to distinguish GERONIMO from any standard Hollywood western about outlaws , except that this time it's a lone outlaw against the U . S . cavalry at a time when Indian treaties were being broken and the Indians wanted to fight over territorial rights . Nothing complex here , just a fictionalized account of Geronimo's love for an Indian woman who bears him a son before the fadeout and after the final battle . Blond and blue-eyed CHUCK CONNORS isn't anyone's idea of an Indian so it's hard to tell what the casting director was thinking , but he does a commendable job of looking like one , thanks to make-up and costumes , except for the blue eyes . He makes no attempt at any sort of native accent but his stoic manner and steely-eyed gaze does help the characterization . KAMALA DEVI is good as the Indian woman who bears his child and ADAM WEST has a pivotal role as a sympathetic officer . Nicely photographed but short on battle skirmishes , it makes passable entertainment but is hardly an outstanding western by any yardstick , dull in some stretches with a less than inspired script .
An abstract bore . . . a tiresome jumble of fragmented scenes . . .	Instead of making a fascinating film about the development of a " crush " in adolescence , the filmmaker has managed to create a hollow story that goes nowhere , develops none of the characters , and is apparently attempting to be poetic and arty about the subject of sex involving a boy's obsessive love for a fellow classmate . The dullness begins with the opening credits which are so blurry that you're left wondering just what it is we're supposed to be observing . Unfortunately , that feeling never lets up even as the slim story moves forward , never letting us see or feel what the main characters are thinking or even doing . Instead , we get a series of close-ups , dull conversations , and it becomes painfully obvious that the abstract subtleties will continue in the same vein throughout without ever giving any real glimpse into the childhood fantasies gnawing at the central character . The attempt is made but it fails to involve the viewer . None of the performances are worth commenting on - - not the mother ( whom we never understand or get to know ) , nor the boy playing the maladjusted youth . Only PATRICK WHITE shows some semblance of understanding his role as the handsome , open minded youth who doesn't mind being the target of infatuation and is open to an approach by the most unpopular kid in class . He registers the correct mixture of surprise and rejection in the cave sequence where he has been led to believe that a girl wants a sexual liaison with him . Other than his one note performance , all the others are even less impressive . The doting mother is a character that is never fleshed out by the script or the performer . The self-conscious artistry of the whole work is wasted because there is no real story , nor is there a satisfying ending . Summing up : A total waste of time on a subject that should be explored in a more serious , detailed and sensitive light by a good independent filmmaker .
Dreadfully dated corny nonsense about " Roseland " - - ten cents a dance . . .	Styles in singing , clothing , costuming , and what constitutes good looks have changed so drastically since 1930 that you have to be a nostalgia buff to appreciate the content of ROSELAND , a Warner Bros . " Film Brevity " to showcase RUTH ETTING . Her hair and make-up would give any respectful make-up artist the chills and her singing style is strictly a product of the ' 30's radio audience . She had a clear and sweet voice but badly in need of a style that would appeal to today's audiences . Silly " Cinderella " story has absolutely no imagination , the script is dull and full of clichés , and the acting is below standard from everyone concerned . Skip this unless you're a die-hard Ruth Etting fan .
Another Lloyd C . Douglas medical soaper . . . uninspired old-fashioned corn . . .	Warner Bros . occasionally gave ERROL FLYNN a break away from his usual swashbuckling roles but should have paid more attention to finding a better source material . The Lloyd C . Douglas novel is an uneven mixture of religion , psychiatry and sudsy melodramatics , never quite sure what the net results ought to be . Flynn is not the problem . He turns in a fine performance as a doctor who nobly sacrifices his own reputation when a medical mistake made by an older doctor could ruin the man's life . He looks as handsome and fit as ever . If this were made in the ' 50s or ' 60s , no doubt Ross Hunter would have persuaded Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson to have a go at it , as they did in Douglas ' THE MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION , another story about a doctor who pays for his mistake , all done up in glossy technicolor . But it soon becomes clear that this is a weak tale , full of platitudes and moralizing by a preacher ( Sir Cedric Hardwicke ) who neatly sums up his philosophy of right and wrong with simplistic slogans . The message is poured on pretty thick before the story reaches the point where Flynn takes a medical risk in order to prove his theory about spotted fever . It's all very obvious , slick and artificial , but at least the performances are earnest . Anita Louise and Margaret Lindsay can't do too much with the pallid female leads but Walter Abel does nicely as a dedicated physician and Henry O'Neill is believable as the medical man who makes a serious error during a critical operation . Frank Borzage directs the proceedings with dignity but gets little help from a stagnant script . Max Steiner contributes one of his lesser scores , more subdued than usual in providing any melodic themes . Interesting only in the fact that it provides Flynn with an offbeat role as a physician .
Garrick was supposed to be " a great actor " , not " a great ham " . . .	I anticipated getting a lot of enjoyment from THE GREAT GARRICK based on previously read reviews and the great cast involved . I was sorely disappointed . James Whale may have been a master at directing horror films but stylized comedy was not his forte . Worst offender of all is Brian Aherne ( hamming it up considerably as the great actor ) and Luis Alberni , obnoxious as a thespian anxious to do a " mad scene " . Some of the humor is painstakingly obvious with everyone determined to see who could outdo the other in shouting their lines and mugging to the nth degree . Edward Everett Horton is best with the comic lines and Melville Cooper is reasonably restrained in a good supporting role . As for the stars , Brian Aherne looks attractive as the gentleman actor but forgets that he is supposed to be a " great " actor , not a " ham " actor and overdoes his role with painful results . Olivia de Havilland is pretty as the leading lady in an ingenue role that gives her little to do but look admiringly at Aherne , which she does dutifully . If you look hard enough , you can spot Lana Turner and Marie Wilson in supporting roles as giggling players in the French company . Wilson seems to be getting in the foreground whenever possible if only to get some notice from the hapless shenanigans going on in the country inn . Disappointing , to say the least , and watchable only to see Brian Aherne and Olivia de Havilland co-starring in the same film . ( Aherne later married de Havilland's sister , Joan Fontaine ) .
An odd way to tell a story about racial prejudice . . .	THE HUMAN STAIN is a handsomely produced independent film that strives hard to be a serious study of the effect racial prejudice has on an educated college professor ( ANTHONY HOPKINS ) who takes early retirement when he is accused of using the word " spooks " to cover two of his students who have never showed up for class . In the course of the story , we learn that he himself is a black man passing for white and dealing with a secret he's kept in the dark for most of his life . It has an odd way of telling the story with frequent intervening and overlapping flashbacks that are sometimes hard to follow . When he meets NICOLE KIDMAN , we have two lost souls . She's running from her past , blaming herself for the accidental death of two children and running from a crazed ex-husband ( ED HARRIS ) who threatens to break up her improbable relationship with the college professor . Kidman tackles a role beyond her scope as a trailer trash type who makes her living as a custodian cleaning up other people's messes . She is never convincing and makes the unappealing character both annoying and absurd , and has absolutely no chemistry with Hopkins . ED HARRIS and GARY SINISE do well in underdeveloped roles and both have some very valid moments where they seem like real people instead of contrived characters . Production-wise , it's handsomely photographed in rugged winter settings but much of it fails to get the points across without stretching too hard . WENTWORTH MILLER is appealing as the younger Hopkins , but it's hard to accept that the handsome dark-haired youth could turn into a man resembling the older Hopkins . Kidman is forced to recite lines like : " Action is the enemy of thought , " which is about as meaningless as the priceless " love means never having to say you're sorry " ( from LOVE STORY ) . She's a girl with no possessions who travels light , falls in love easily with an older man and later informs him that she has a crazed ex-husband . Both she and Hopkins have constructed their lives around a lie and it seems they deserve each other . Neither one becomes a sympathetic character . An interesting failure , it tries to say serious things about race but too much of it is unbelievable and handicapped by unpleasant characterizations .
Early talkie is adult in story but flawed in technique . . .	SWEEPINGS is an early sound film directed by John Cromwell and starring LIONEL BARRYMORE as a man who builds an empire for his children , only to see it crumble when they show no interest in inheriting or running the department store business . After a promising start , it begins to sag toward the last half-hour and shows its age with the primitive stage bound look of too many talky scenes . So much time is covered that all of the incidents had to be compressed in order to cover the wide span . An effective use of montages does show the director striving for more advanced techniques . Someone else has mentioned Max Steiner's " full bodied score " but there is no such thing . Whatever underscoring there is , is kept to a minimum and the film has a tone that is more somber than dramatic because of the mostly silent music soundtrack . As a character study of an ambitious man who becomes embittered by his situation , Barrymore is excellent and ERIC LINDEN is good as the son who admits he has no ambition . WILLIAM GARGAN , GEORGE MEEKER , GREGORY RATOFF and GLORIA STUART are just satisfactory in lesser roles . Summing up : Overall effect is not as striking as it should have been , given that the story is really a timeless one .
Sequel lacks the spark and wit of Clifton Webb . . .	BELLES ON THEIR TOES is another nostalgic look at a past that never was . At least that's the impression you get from watching MYRNA LOY worry about her brood of Gilbreth children after father Clifton Webb has passed on . As usual , Loy is likable enough as the strong-willed mother who has to guide her children through what passes for " hard times " but has the look of the ' 50s rather than the ' 20s . This lack of detail makes the film much less enjoyable than CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN . There's also a lack of freshness about the performances of JEANNE CRAIN as the oldest daughter , BARBARA BATES , JEFFREY HUNTER , MARTIN MILNER and ROBERT ARTHUR . It all seems rather pat , standard stuff that passed for wholesomeness in the ' 50s , before the grim realism of the ' 60s films set in . Mother is seen at the graduation ceremony of her girls , which makes room for a flashback to their turbulent " growing up " years that includes the girls being romanced by whatever Fox star hopefuls the casting agent could find . Of the men , JEFFREY HUNTER stands out as the most likely prospect for stardom and is paired nicely with JEANNE CRAIN . Nostalgia is nice , but the charm wears thin when the film offers nothing new in the way of plot twists and you have to settle for more of the same material offered in the original - - without Webb , who gave that film its chief distinction .
A sort of Cain and Abel story out west . . . not compelling enough . . .	VENGEANCE VALLEY has several things going for it - - a story by Luke Short , good photography in scenic Colorado , a nice cast of competent players , and firm direction from Richard Thorpe . Unfortunately , it never reaches any of its potential in telling the story of two brothers , a rancher's adopted son ( BURT LANCASTER ) and his real son ( ROBERT WALKER ) , one good , one thoroughly bad . In an odd shift of casting , Walker is the bad one envious of his father's high opinion of his adopted son . Walker wanted the part badly , according to his bios . His career was not taking shape the way he wanted and he'd already played too many bland good boy roles . Well , he really sinks his teeth into this one , but the result is more unpleasant than impressive . He plays the slimy villain with almost too much gusto . Some lesser villainy is depicted in smaller roles played by HUGH O'BRIAN and JOHN IRELAND . Rivalry over ranch control and two women ( JOANNE DRU and SALLY FORREST ) provides reason for combat between the brothers that erupts after Walker arranges for an ambush meant to get rid of his brother . After that , there's a gun shooting showdown for the climax . Despite good intentions , this is a disappointment as a western melodrama with a miscast Walker as the evil brother . None of it is as compelling as a Cain and Abel tale is expected to be .
The era of good , wholesome fun was definitely over . . .	It's sad to think that RISKY BUSINESS is the film that turned TOM CRUISE into a household name almost overnight - - and simply because everyone under 35 who went to see it recognized their own fantasies being played out by a guy who was the antithesis of Andy Hardy . Well , almost everybody . Not everyone fantasizes about having his parents go away for the week-end so he can hire hookers to spice up his rather inexperienced sex life - - and yet , that's the premise that put this film over the top at the box-office . While TOM CRUISE and REBECCA DeMORNAY do respectable enough jobs in their unbelievable roles , it's just a teen sex comedy with one thing on its mind and it gets pretty tiresome after the first thirty minutes have gone by with everyone concentrating on either sex or money . True , it's probably a pretty accurate portrait of how trashy American culture has gotten over the years and how youth is wasted on the very young - - but the storytelling is never judgmental no matter how boorish the behavior is and there's no lesson in this for anyone to absorb . " Get away with it if you can " , seems to be the moral philosophy of the screenplay . In short , it doesn't say a lot about suburban America's middle class cultural values . Not only does it present teen behavior in the worst possible way , but the blissfully ignorant parenting leaves much to be desired . In fact , the most unbelievable aspect of the story is the way the trusting parents react upon their return . Summing up : Pretty dismal comedy no matter how you look at it .
Thin on plot and equally thin on charm . . .	I never could understand why the CARY GRANT / INGRID BERGMAN fans were so crazy about this movie . It's a big disappointment , coming as it does from a play by witty Norman Krasna and directed by none other than Stanley Donen . But , in my opinion , it fails to deliver the goods in more ways than one . First , the story is so slight you could sum it up in one sentence - - which I won't do here because then I'd be giving the whole plot away ! Take it from me , the material is gossamer thin . This was true of other Norman Krasna scripts too , but at least they had more comic style going for them than is on display here . INGRID BERGMAN ( still lovely but looking a bit matronly in her early 40s ) and CARY GRANT simply don't have the same chemistry they did in NOTORIOUS - - which is just as much a fault of the script as it is of the actors . He wants to have an affair with an actress ( no strings attached ) so he tells her he's married ( when he isn't ) . That's supposed to take care of the plot for the length of the film . Please . No , can't say I have any special fondness for this one , except for one scene at a ball where Grant goes into an impromptu jig - - showing , of course , that he still had quite a flair for comedy when it wasn't being repressed . Bergman proved in CACTUS FLOWER that she could do comedy when she wanted to - - but she really doesn't have much of a chance here to be anything more than modestly charming as she plays a coy game of flirtation with a man she thinks is a married playboy . PHYLLIS CALVERT and CECIL PARKER made no particular impression on me in supporting roles .
Hollywood's early sound version is strictly for the birds . . .	I'm told that JOHN BARRYMORE was once a great actor . There is little evidence for this claim offered here . His entire performance has the flavor of smokehouse ham all the way , even given to over-the-top acrobatics on the ship's crows nest . He squints his eyes , widens them when angry , snarls all of his dialog in a theatrical manner , and then we're supposed to believe that a beautiful young girl ( JOAN BENNETT at twenty ) is so charmed by his dashing appearance that she falls instantly in love with him . The only impressive things about the film are the settings , the photography and the all too brief moments at sea where Captain Ahab comes into contact with the great white whale . But for a film about Melville's famous whaler , it spends very little time at sea . Most of the story is taken up by a conventional three-way romance that is pure Hollywood hokum . Bennett was a very beautiful young girl but there's a strange quality about the way she uses her voice - - " talkies " being new , this is , I suppose , forgivable . She seems to be acting in a stage play rather than a movie - - but then , so is Barrymore . Summing up : Primitive attempt to present Melville to ' 30s audiences , leaving out most of the plot , substituting motivations and adding love interest . A yawner except for the sea scenes .
Silly William Castle fright film is as stale as week old bread . . .	Only the kiddies could possibly find anything really scary or original about this obvious and contrived fright film on a cheapie William Castle budget , THE HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL . Despite the fact that it features VINCENT PRICE as an eccentric millionaire who challenges a flock of guests to spend the night in his haunted mansion ( and survive ) , it's got all the flavor of amateur night with performances ranging from bad to really bad . Of course , the title alone is enough to encourage some viewers to think they'll get some real scares - - but it's a title that never lives up to the promise of something really haunting . Instead , we have chandeliers crashing , heads turning up in boxes , and some foaming vat of acid bubbling in the cellar while the guests lurk around in such stupid fashion that they seem to deserve their grisly fates . Unworthy of Vincent Price , an actor who did do a number of good horror films . This is not one of them . Strictly third-rate stuff , even for Halloween .
Twain deserved better than this . . .	A dull biography of Mark Twain is all Warner Bros . managed to do with this lumbering tale of the great author's progression from riverboat captain to editor to author - - all accompanied by some jaunty Max Steiner music that holds the various segments together nicely . But it's still dull stuff . Credit FREDRIC MARCH with at least looking the part - - although his heart doesn't seem to be in playing Twain with anything more than superficial likeness . Wouldn't you know ALAN HALE plays his rambunctious buddy - - hey , it's a Warner flick . Percy Kilbride and John Carradine get short shrift but at least DONALD CRISP , the great character actor that he is , gets to play a more substantial role . Lovely ALEXIS SMITH is the love interest , as Libby , Twain's sweetheart who becomes his understanding wife . Alexis is so modern looking , even in period films , that somehow her characterization of the loyal wife seems false . But the script is so cliché ridden that even the romance doesn't seem real , not entirely her fault . Instead of being the colorful bio it should be , even events like the frog jumping contest comes off as pure hokum . Twain was the teller of tall tales but apparently the screenwriters weren't able to come up with anything resembling his true spirit . It's a tribute to Max Steiner that he was able to come up with a delightful background score in view of the fact that nothing on screen could have given him the inspiration needed .
Jeanette is captivating , but the plot is a yawner . . .	If it wasn't for " Donkey Serenade " , this would have been a total loss as a piece of gaudy MGM entertainment for the masses in the 1930s . JEANETTE MacDONALD gives her all as a sexy spy who tries getting potentially harmful information from French officers , but it's all pretty preposterous and finally much too long for sustained interest . The only sequence that comes off as completely charming is the " Donkey Serenade " episode with ALLAN JONES singing his heart out as he rides a dusty trail following her carriage . Jones is a fine match for MacDonald but probably left MGM when he realized it was Nelson Eddy's territory . The score is kind of lackluster , the sets are opulent in typical MGM grand style manner , but the plot is never lively enough to keep one's attention riveted on the plodding story of spies and counter-spies in ye olde Spain . Everyone tries hard , but it just seems to stall somewhere near the middle and never recovers . Trivia : Did Jeanette MacDonald ever show her real hair in a costume film ? She must wear at least 25 wigs and hairdos in this film alone , changing her far from simple hairstyles from scene to scene more often than Lana Turner ever changed her costumes in glamorous roles . There must have been a special Jeanette wig department at Metro just for the occasion .
Another identity exchange farce . . . directed by Peter Ustinov . . .	In the tradition of films like TURNABOUT and FREAKY Friday , VICE VERSA attaches the theme to a couple of males this time , in a British comedy written and directed by Peter Ustinov that tries too hard to be clever , but succeeds , instead , in being exceedingly foolish . ANTHONY NEWLEY is a Victorian schoolboy who trades places with his stuffy British father by wishing on a magic stone from India . Newley brings his father's knowledge and stuffiness to the school that he returns to , much to the bewilderment of his classmates and professors . The father , ROGER LIVESEY , adopts childish preferences rather than smoking his favored cigars and confounds his household servants . You have to be a fan of overly broad , non-subtle British humor to fully enjoy this comedy . Most of it is beyond silly , however delightful the performances are . Especially absurd is the confrontation of battle swords in a duel over a young woman , played for zany humor but somehow missing the mark . None of it can be taken seriously , so your enjoyment of the story will depend entirely on whether or not you favor this sort of humor . Newley does a decent enough job as the young boy and Livesey seems to be enjoying himself in a comic role , looking and sounding an awful lot like Nigel Bruce behind his scruffy mustache . Anyone with a sharp eye will notice that so many of the story ingredients are used in FREAKY Friday , but American style . Too overdone for my taste .
Joan is Queen of the manor . . . and the suds keep flowing . . .	QUEEN BEE is a handsome showcase for the JOAN CRAWFORD brand of acting . She's the Southern Gothic matriarch of an uneasy household and the other characters are all foils for Joan's dominating Queen Bee . There's the sweetly naive girl from the North ( LUCY MARLOW ) ; Crawford's bitter husband , a scarred BARRY SULLIVAN ; and BETSY PALMER as the most normal of the group , clearly disliking Eva ( Crawford ) and her controlling ways ; and JOHN IRELAND as the all knowing ex-husband . Crawford is at her royal best , giving lines like " I'd rather you didn't talk to me in that manner , " the haughty air of a woman who just ascended from her throne . She looks well , except for the eyebrows that are thicker than Boris Karloff's . " I like people around me to laugh and be gay , " she tells the naive Northerner guest . We all know something dire will happen sooner or later . Joan has some terrible dialog to spout . " It makes me terribly cross when people oppose me , " she tells Marlow . " If you left , I'd never have anyone to call my own . " Naturally , it's tailor-made material for Crawford who holds the spotlight without any difficulty , although Betsy Palmer and Barry Sullivan do nicely in supporting roles . It's a well mounted production , filmed crisply in glorious B & W photography and the interiors of Joan's mansion are only slightly less imposing than Manderlay in REBECCA . But it never becomes much more than high camp , with Crawford strutting her stuff as only she can - - and the others performing capably enough but never having a chance to really shine . Summing up : Ideal viewing for Crawford's legion of fans who probably will enjoy seeing her in a series of Jean Louis gowns , impeccably poised as she delivers some sweetly sarcastic lines . Her clothes even got an Oscar nomination , as did the B & W photography . Trivia note : Joan's best line : " A party is to women , what a battlefield is to men . "
Amusing Hope comedy as another cowardly hero out west . . .	The Bob Hope movies I liked best were the ones that were a mixture of mirth and murder ( CAT AND THE CANARY , THE GHOST BREAKERS ) , where he played the cowardly hero who gets the girl in the final reel . His westerns were fun too , films like THE PALEFACE or SON OF PALEFACE . It's good to report that ALIAS JESSE JAMES fits the standard for his western spoofs , all done up in fancy Technicolor and given a good cast . The comic set-up has him selling a life insurance policy to Jesse James ( WENDELL COREY ) and then told by his bosses that he must go out west and get the policy back at all costs - - even if it means his own life , since the policy is worth $100 , 000 . BOB HOPE , of course , takes the assignment and gets mixed up with the James brothers ( brother Frank James is played by JIM DAVIS ) . Not only is he surrounded by a gun-toting gang but he falls in love with Jesse's girl ( RHONDA FLEMING ) , who is fed up with Jesse and ready for a new beau . The laughs are steady as Hope fumbles his way through one laughable but impossibly silly situation after another , ready with the one-liners and getting the most out of a zany script . A chase toward the end is full of sight gags that work and the final shootout shows him shooting at the town villains while others do the actual killing shots - - including GARY COOPER , JAMES ARNESS , WARD BOND , ROY ROGERS , GAIL DAVIS and , no surprise , BING CROSBY . It's a lightweight romp for Hope and Fleming , with WENDELL COREY surprisingly good as Jesse James and MARY YOUNG doing a nice job as his gun-toting ma . Briskly directed by Norman Z . McLeod , it's simple minded fun played in broad farcical style by a pleasant cast and one of Hope's better films during the ' 50s .
Puzzling , absorbing , good twist as the final touch . . .	To fully accept the premise of THE SIXTH SENSE , you first have to accept BRICE WILLIS as a prominent child psychologist after seeing him in all those DIE HARD films . He goes from an action star to an intense doctor absorbed with a child patient ( HALEY JOEL OSMENT ) who claims he can see the dead . Struggling professionally after a maniacal ex-patient has shot and wounded him in the heat of rage , the psychologist is determined to help Osment from going off the deep end the way his former patient did . That is the crux of the story . It involves flashbacks , flash forwards and all kinds of camera tricks to keep you guessing how it's all going to end , since the big hype about the film was that it had a twist ending . Well , it was a surprise to me - - but now , years later , after seeing so many films of this ilk which are obviously copycat types that deal with ghosts or the supernatural - - I'm not so sure I'd be fooled so easily again . However , a surprise it was for me and it's done so cleverly that you'll want to revisit the film to see just how the trickery was managed . BRUCE WILLIS cannot quite do away with the smirk he had as the anti-hero in many a film , so I have to reserve some criticism for his performance . But it doesn't matter since the film revolves around the dark secrets and behavior of HALEY JOEL OSMENT , very good child actor who manages to keep the plot believable and interesting . Absorbing thriller , even if it starts out a little slowly and doesn't really build up its suspense in a taut way . But that ending is clever !
Story about terrorists in NYC is timelier than ever since . . .	BRUCE WILLIS and SAMUEL L . JACKSON seem like they're doing a buddy flick rigged to simulate what Mel Gibson did with his LETHAL WEAPON films . There's lots of humor , excitement , explosions , daring escapes and leaps from high places as they tear around New York City trying to prevent terrorist ( JEREMY LYONS ) from blowing up a public school . As Leonard Maltin says : " It's like watching 12 chapters of a hi-tech Saturday matinée serial all at once , " with non-stop action piled onto a thin plot that has the bomber using his threats as a diversionary device so that he and his army of goons can use dumpsters to load gold from the Federal Reserve Bank . Both Willis and Jackson have to undergo a number of physical hardships and beatings to attempt any number of athletic stunts they're forced to perform in the course of tracking down the riddles they're given by Irons . Irons , it seems , is intent on using ex-cop Willis as the target of his demands because he threw Lyons ' brother off a roof a few years previously . That's about the depth of character involvement we get . But since the film is all about action , any fan of this genre is bound to get their money's worth . All the stunts are elaborately staged , the color photography ( particularly of New York City's congested streets and bridges ) is excellent and Michael Kamen's music wrings the most out of every explosive situation . Summing up : For thrill seekers only , but don't expect credibility when the brutal punishment Willis and Jackson take makes it improbable that they survived their mission intact . There's a comic book feel to the whole movie because all the action is over-the-top .
Another interesting episode full of plot twists and turns . . .	Far from disappointing is this well scripted episode of FOYLE'S WAR : CASUALTIES OF WAR , in which Foyle is caught up in a visit from a young woman ( his niece ) whom he hasn't seen in ten years and her young son who refuses to talk after a bombing at his school kills many of his classmates and teachers . MICHAEL KITCHEN is again in good form as Foyle and the supporting cast does fine ensemble work . Thrown into the mix are several other sub-plots , the one involving espionage and top secret classified work being the most interesting and the way it's resolved is explored in a satisfactory way . Nitpicking aside , it's true that those working on highly classified information would hardly be working in the kind of unguarded shack displayed here , but the story involving the clever woman and the cunning way she disposes of her husband is absorbing and well done . An appealing performance by the young boy helps a great deal , and most of the other roles are filled by very capable British actors . Summing up : The resolution is a bit downbeat but the story moves at a quick pace and makes an entertaining treat .
Rare birds preen for the cameras in this Pete Smith Specialty Short . . .	I suppose bird watchers and members of the Audubon Society will find this short much more fascinating that I did , but it comes across as a rather cut and dry documentary on our fine feathered friends , narrated by Pete Smith . On display - - and accompanied by a few witty comments about their appearances - - are a range of birds including : The Red Cardinal , Hummingbirds , Chinese Rice Birds , Golden Pheasant , Manuchurian Pheasants , African Crown Crane , The Barn Owl and The Monkey Faced Owl , among others . Naturally , all of their color is highlighted by being " photographed in the Technicolor process " according to the credits . It's an odd MGM short that surprised me because I thought the Pete Smith shorts began in the ' 40s rather than the early ' 30s . Just goes to show that in the early ' 30s , the big studios were experimenting with full color before taking the plunge later in the decade for full-length features .
Maisie's helicopter ride is the film's only worthwhile stunt . . .	These MAISIE films were churned out with alarming regularity by MGM , obviously intended to amuse post-war audiences as the second feature on a double bill . They passed the time pleasantly enough , but it's hard to review them by today's standards since much of the material is as dated as can be . Let's just say that ANN SOTHERN dispenses her usual charm and breezy style in the role of Maisie Revere , a gal who gets a job with an inventor ( GEORGE MURPHY ) who is trying to get his automatic helicopter on the market . Needless to say , Maisie and the inventor , played in his usual bland way by Murphy , soon find they have romance on their minds but little else in this silly script . Of course , she ends up saving the day by solo piloting the helicopter over downtown Los Angeles and landing in the Pasadena Rose Bowl for a grand touchdown . It's as silly as all the other Maisie movies , but not as hard to take as some of them . STEPHEN McNALLY and HILLARY BROOKE are capable at playing the villains , but Maisie getting the wolf whistle routine from every other male in the cast is a bit much . Trivia note : Watch for DON TAYLOR in soldier's uniform in an uncredited bit .
Charles McGraw heads cast of neat B-film noir . . .	I'm fast becoming an admirer of CHARLES McGRAW who did some nifty B-films in the ' 40s and ' 50s , usually as a granite jawed anti-hero with murder and mayhem on his mind . He does some of his best work here as a man whose greedy girlfriend leads him astray from his job as an insurance inspector . It's the sort of film you'd expect from RKO , the studio that seemed adept at turning out these smoothly produced B-films and giving them sharp-edged dialog in true film noir style . I can't say anything too favorable about the choice of JOAN DIXON as the femme fatale who looks a lot like a cross between Ellen Drew and Ella Raines but lacks Raines ' ability to get inside of a role . Dixon is a blank check as an actress . LOWELL GILMORE does a nice job as an equally corrupt man who meets his fate in a fiery car crash engineered by McGraw . It seems almost like overkill since he's not quite the villain the screenplay wants him to be . But it's McGraw who gives the most truthful performance in this noir type of exercise . His steely gaze and powerful build give him the right kind of charisma for this type of thing . One can easily see him portraying someone like Dick Tracy , on the other side of the law , if the chance ever came . Instead , he spent most of his career as a hardened , bitter type , and as ruthless as he is here . Summing up : Surprisingly good B-film from RKO that gives McGraw a chance to shine in the type of role he did best .
Low-budget version of the Dostoyevsky novel with Peter Lorre . . .	Josef von Sternberg's touch looms over CRIME AND PUNISHMENT - - the dramatic lighting of shadowy photography , the Dietrich-like close-ups of its female star - - but while he has captured the mood of the story with his photography , the film is flawed in many ways . PETER LORRE's performance is uneven , his actions sometimes implausible given that he's supposed to be an expert author of an essay on crime . His sudden bursts of temper to suggest that his conscience is nagging him are almost on the point of burlesque . Von Sternberg should have taken more care in directing Lorre - - as much care as he took in lighting MARIAN MARSH for the camera . She looks radiant but is just so-so in performance as the street harlot . ELISABETH RISDON is well cast as Lorre's weak mother . MRS . PATRICK CAMPBELL makes a formidable pawnbroker and an unsympathetic victim of Lorre's crime . EDWARD ARNOLD , who gets top billing , makes a police inspector who is more jovial than crafty with a Santa Claus laugh that would have served him better if he were playing comedy rather than psychological drama . And yet , the story remains a compelling one and the moody atmosphere with its Germanic expressionistic photography is bound to keep a viewer interested in the proceedings . Summing up : Could have been a much better version of a tortured soul with more time spent on developing a plausible central character .
Sentimental tear-jerker gives Garson and Colman ideal roles . . .	To say that RANDOM HARVEST was a highly popular success when released in 1942 is almost an understatement . It played for ten weeks at the huge Radio City Music Hall , filling it with appreciative fans who couldn't get enough of this sentimental James Hilton romance . Most of its success is due to the charisma of RONALD COLMAN and GREER GARSON , both at their absolute peak of professional charm and poise , with Colman doing a magnificent job of making the shell-shocked " Smithy " one of his most appealing characters and Garson giving one of her most radiant performances as Paula . But if you take a moment to examine the story contents , it makes you realize what an accomplishment the performances are since the story has so many flaws in realism , particularly regarding the instant falling in love that happens when Garson first discovers " Smithy " is from an asylum and then her refusal to tell him the truth for a long period of time while she patiently waits for him to get his memory back . Too patiently . The amnesia theme was a favorite of ' 40s Hollywood and it has never been used to better advantage than it is here . But the instant attraction between SUSAN PETERS and Colman when he returns to his snobbish family after an auto accident that makes him forget Paula , seems a contrivance that doesn't ring true . Nor do the subtle clues that bring his memory back seem reasonable enough to swallow . However , the moment when she realizes he is still thinking of another , is brilliantly handled by both Peters and Colman . Nevertheless , all of the schmaltz has been so skillfully directed by Mervyn LeRoy that most will fall under the spell of the film's unrelenting romanticism and let cynicism fade . That's just as well , because LeRoy's direction is slow-paced at times , almost cumbersome , letting the film run to an inordinate length before letting " Smithy " and Paula get together for a final embrace while cherry blossoms fall and the music swells to an appropriate volume for " The End " . I don't rank this film as high as WATERLOO BRIDGE or TO EACH HIS OWN , both romances that skillfully told a tale without resorting to the glossy romantic close-ups and violin music that " Harvest " uses to accentuate the chemistry of Colman and Garson - - a distinctly MGM trait . But they do have enormous chemistry and that is the factor that makes the whole unbelievable story work .
Breezy , very watchable little comedy with attractive cast . . .	This is the film where I first fell under the spell of the quirky heroines SHIRLEY MacLAINE seemed to embody in her early screen roles - - and continued to play long after the charm had worn off . But here she's refreshingly innocent , naive , quirky , good-natured and easy to like . In fact , she has to carry the film even though she's playing opposite such pros as David NIVEN ( rather stuffy here ) , GIG YOUNG ( casual , relaxed performance ) , and ROD TAYLOR ( always good in light romantic comedies ) . But it's MacLaine's show all the way as a girl who stumbles into a job at a market research firm run by two brothers , opposite types , one of whom ( Niven ) decides to shape her into the kind of woman his brother should fall in love with . Naturally , his little scheme backfires and he ends up falling in love with his creation . If you detect a touch of " My Fair Lady " here , you're right . Passes the time quickly in an era where most films did exactly that , lasting no more than an hour and a half .
Robert Blake in top form but the movie is a flawed western . . .	TELL THEM WILLIE BOY IS HERE has top-notch color photography by Conrad Hall , a thinking man's script that is character driven , and good performances all around by a cast that includes ROBERT REDFORD , ROBERT BLAKE , SUSAN CLARK , BARRY SULLIVAN and KATHARINE ROSS . But it's a lumbering tale that takes a good hour before the dust begins to settle and we get some action along with the character development of both Blake and Redford . Every scene is painfully slow in getting to the payoff so that the film seems a lot longer than one hour and thirty-six minutes . The first hour is devoted to the manhunt for an Indian killer ( Blake ) and then the plot involves the arrival of President Taft in 1909 California and the effort to protect him from any kind of assassination attempt . Redford's role as the reluctant sheriff is never too clear since he's a man of a very few words ( a regular Gary Cooper type ) , so it's up to Blake to carry much of the film and he does . He's terrific as the Indian lad who's trigger happy when the posse starts getting too close . The last twenty minutes should have been a model of suspense as they close in on Willie Boy , but it's allowed to drag out interminably . Summing up : Character driven tale had the potential to be a fine western , but badly paced direction of Abraham Polonsky is no help nor is the sluggish script . Film was released after BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID put Redford on the map but was never a big box-office success .
Familiar ingredients but still better than average programmer . . .	Although there's a little too much Southern exposition to set the stage for a present day story , THE UNKNOWN is a better than average programmer in the Columbia studio's " I Love A Mystery " series . Getting to the heart of the story takes up too much time at the start , but once the story starts dealing with the mysterious things going on in an old Southern mansion , it keeps building interest until the mystery is solved . The cast is an interesting one , even though there are hardly any big names involved . KAREN MORLEY is the troubled woman on the brink of madness , ROBERT WILCOX is her lover who has been banished from the grounds , JIM BANNON is Jack Packard , the detective , and BARTON YARBOROUGH is again his partner . JEFF DONNELL is the lady who stands to win an inheritance and MARK ROBERTS is the young lawyer designated to read the will . All of it is directed in nimble style by Henry Levin , an old hand at these sort of programmers and , despite the low budget , given some handsome settings . Summing up : Gets off to a slow start but gradually builds interest .
It's deadpan humor is fun . . . for awhile . . .	Lots of deadpan WOODY ALLEN humor in what amounts to a series of sketches about a paranoid bank robber who fails at everything he attempts in life - - including bank robberies . There's a hilarious moment during the first robbery where the tellers argue over a misspelled word in the note he slips to the teller . And a later robbery is snuffed when his team is up against another robbery in progress and the customers are asked to vote on which robber should hold them up . It goes on in this vein for about an hour and twenty-five minutes , sufficient enough time because things start to get a bit repetitious toward the end . There's only so long you can play on a one note theme and Woody had the good sense to keep his film short and to the point . JANET MARGOLIN is the unlucky wife , the sort of role Charlie Chaplin would have had Paulette Goddard play in the ' 30s - - and indeed there are some Chaplinesque moments in TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN where Woody gets some mileage out of silent screen kind of comedies - - particularly a scene in the prison laundry where the machine seems to have a mind of its own . But the jokes do wear thin . ( " I tried mugging old ladies for awhile but I got hit in the groin with crutches " ) , etc . Funniest moments in the film involve a prison break while he's on a chain gang , with a group of six men seeking shelter in a nearby cottage and shuffling around as though glued together when questioned by a naive sheriff . Moments like that owe something to Chaplin . It's easy to take , especially due to the brief running time , and there are plenty of chuckles along with some of the flatter jokes . But I would have been perfectly happy to see a comedian other than Woody playing the hapless bank robber . After all , he's not the only comic out there with the sort of timing needed to carry this sort of thing off .
A clever but shallow satire that manages to hold interest after a brutal death scene . . .	I'm not a Robert Altman fan but THE PLAYER ranks among the best of his crop of overpraised films . At least the performances are first rate without all the overlapping dialog that one had to endure in GOSFORD PARK , but the satire is laid on pretty thick even after the brutal accidental murder scene . TIM ROBBINS plays a Hollywood producer who is unable to shake off the persistence of an aspiring writer without resorting to killing him in a moment of desperation and anger . He gets control of himself thereafter and is able to play innocent , especially after a line-up of suspects including him fails to produce a witness who could identify him as being near the scene of the crime . The biggest in-joke of all is Altman's decision to have a marathon lineup of stars on the sidelines , popping up at every other moment when least suspected , and often with no more than a few seconds of screen time . The film within a film ( a sub-plot bearing resemblance to the real film plot ) is cleverly used to provide a neat finish to the tale . And in doing so , it utilizes ( very briefly ) the services of stars like SUSAN SARANDON , PETER FALK , JULIA ROBERTS and BRUCE WILLIS . GRETA SCACCHI , PETER GALLAGHER and DEAN STOCKWELL do well in the most prominent supporting roles but it's TIM ROBBINS who owns the spotlight throughout and he's excellent as the conflicted man who commits a crime and gets away with it in a Hollywood film colony that has no conscience . WHOOPI GOLDBERG's role as Detective Susan Avery is unforgivably coarse and totally unbelievable as a woman whose professional conduct borders on burlesque . Equally ineffective is LYLE LOVETT as a fellow detective amused by her shenanigans . There are plenty of faults , but the film manages to hold the interest with its unique blend of suspense , humor , satire and tragedy . It's a clever piece of work but heavily dependent on the audience getting all the inside jokes about Hollywood and its celebrated denizens .
Merle is effective in a weepie from the Golden Age . . .	Handsomely photographed and nicely scored romantic drama from Samuel Goldwyn about a childhood friendship between three people that develops into an intense romantic triangle . MERLE OBERON , FREDRIC MARCH and HERBERT MARSHALL have the pivotal roles as star-crossed lovers during the World War I period . Unfortunately , the three leads are lifelong friends destined to have their lives shattered by the war . Love , guilt and fate play a part in their lives when March is blinded but keeps away from Oberon , unable to tell her the truth and letting her think he's died . As for the rest of the plot , with a screenplay by Lillian Hellman , you have to watch the film . Nobody stumbles in any of the roles and , in fact , MERLE OBERON won her only Best Actress nomination as Kitty , warm and appealing as the romantic interest of both men . The tearful final reunion scene will remind you of the final touching scene from RANDOM HARVEST where Smitty and his lost love find each other again . Modern viewers beware . You'll probably find some of the tear-jerking moments a bit too mawkish but remember , this was the 1930s . Trivia note : Oberon was photographed much more flatteringly in another film she appeared in that year , THE SCARLET PIMPERNELL . What a difference a more flattering hairdo and period costumes make ! !
A nice glimpse of key spots in Massachusetts in 1942 . . .	This is a brisk look at the Colonial side of Massachusetts , including looks at the old homes of Miles Standish , John and Priscilla Alden , a famous Old Red Schoolhouse , the Old Grist Mill , Wayside Inn , Clara Barton's birthplace and a view of some Sandwich glassware . The second half of the short deals mostly with Cape Cod and Provincetown . We see the oldest Cape Cod windmill built in 1793 , fishing boats along Provincetown harbor , the artists colony at work in the sand dunes and , finally , a look at the Coastgard Radio Station as the sun settles on the blue horizon . An interesting glimpse and a bit of Colonial history .
The Mary Roberts Rinehart story is showing its age . . .	THE BAT , while entertaining and funny because of some hokey dialog , was clearly showing its age as a horror / mystery film by the time this remake was made in 1959 . Based on the stage play from the Rinehart novel , it's much less effective than the earlier version called THE BAT WHISPERS with Chester Morris as the detective . That at least had innovative touches in the photography and was much more satisfactory in the chills department . This one seems artificial and stagebound with dialog that is hopelessly artificial and strained . AGNES MOOREHEAD does about as well as can be expected under the trying circumstances and VINCENT PRICE is effective as the chief suspect , a man we know is anxious to get his hands on the enormous amount of money taken from a bank vault and hidden in the creepy old house . JOHN SUTTON is the chauffeur turned butler , a man with a past who is skillful at anything he turns his hand to . GAVIN GORDON is the detective who assures the ladies of the house that because he has given police protection to the mansion , they can safely go to bed at night as long as they lock their doors . This last point is just one of the problems with the script . Why would anyone feel safe behind the locked door of a bedroom when the house is full of secret panels and passages ? And why , after " The Bat " has been known to enter the house illegally , would anyone feel safe with a hole cut in the glass of the main door ? Anyone can start nitpicking all the problems with the script , but nevertheless the film itself is entertaining as an " old dark house mystery " that's fun to solve , especially since the identity of The Bat isn't revealed until the final scene . Worth watching , but don't expect too much . Some of the performances border on amateurish and none of the performers are helped by a weak script and routine direction by Crane Wilbur .
Chilly ghost story is ultimately a disappointment . . .	DARK WATER is worth watching mainly for the performance of JENNIFER CONNOLLY as a distraught mother who almost has a nervous breakdown over the mysterious happenings in a run-down apartment she rents on Roosevelt Island in New York City . Indeed , the apartment is so intent on leaking " dark water " with ominous ceiling stains , you wonder how the woman didn't just move out when the hauntings began . A lot of common sense is missing in the screenplay , which starts out with the mother and father ( DOUGRAY SCOTT ) fighting over custody of their young daughter ( ARIEL GADE ) , who , by the way , gives an excellent performance as the girl with an imaginary companion . Or so it seems , when the girl disrupts the classroom by arguing with her overbearing companion . But the ghost factor of the story is never clearly resolved and most of the attention is riveted because the atmosphere and the music seems to imply that something is about to happen . It rarely does , which is another weakness in the story - - but when it does , it's not always credible . What the story does do is provide a good fifteen minutes toward the end which makes a rather satisfying conclusion as the mother confronts the ghost of a child that's been at the center of the haunting . To tell any more would be to give away the ending , but suffice it to say that here at least the script wraps up in an interesting way . JENNIFER CONNOLLY gives a very intense performance as the young mother , especially the scene where she has an emotional collapse . JOHN C . REILLY as a sleazy rental agent injects some much needed humor into his role and TIM ROTH is good as a concerned lawyer . Summing up : Some taut suspense and chills but ultimately somewhat of a letdown and lacking credibility . Would an intelligent woman really move into such a dank , dismal apartment so obviously badly in need of a good plumber ? I know she was distracted and under a nervous strain , but give me a break !
Pulp fiction . . . ordinary thriller given too much attention because of controversial theme . . .	If you approach watching a film like THE DA VINCI CODE as a thriller ( and forget all the mumble jumble about the history of the Roman Catholic Church ) , it works on an elementary level . The background score ( a very busy one ) by Hans Zimmer gives it the required element of suspense even when two characters are merely giving you a lot of exposition to make the plot easier to follow . Unfortunately , it would take someone more familiar with this material to truly enjoy the movie as a serious look at the dark side of Christianity and its symbols that never quite make complete sense . And so , I will review the film on the level of a thriller that has added a controversial theme to attract a large audience ready to put on its thinking cap and at least ponder what might have been . Ron Howard has seen to it that the controversial elements have been toned down considerably from the book , without eliminating them entirely . But on the debit side , most of the photography is too dark ( intentionally so , I presume to keep an air of mystery going ) , the explanations come at a slow pace but there are too many to keep the plot from moving forward the way it should in a thriller of this kind , and the acting is , for the most part , not extraordinary . TOM HANKS gives a very understated performance in a role that is , for the most part , rather bland . He plays the role straight , without any emphasis on his lighter side , but one almost wishes for some trace of wit or humor in the role . His French cohort AUDREY TAUTOU has an accent that makes some of her key words undecipherable ( at least to me ) in a film where every bit of relevant material needs to be handed to the viewer who wants to catch all the clues . Only Ian McKellen sparkles in a supporting role , bringing flashes of humor and intelligence to a well-written role . Alfred Molina as a Bishop has little opportunity to be more than slightly interesting . The most striking and intense supporting role goes to Paul Bettany as Silas , the albino who has his own interpretation of what he must do to please the Lord . He has a few masochistic scenes that dole out the required chills and he has a look of quiet menace and desperation in his eyes . All in all , I'd say this should please readers of the book . Howard has done as good a job as possible with the bulky twists and turns of the novel and translated a popular work of pulp fiction into a movie that will undoubtedly be seen by audiences looking for a summer blockbuster . Summing up : A good workmanlike job by a movie that really doesn't ask the viewer to take it too seriously . It's more like an espionage thriller with a dose of religiosity thrown in .
Profanely funny . . . Whoopi at her whoopiest . . .	If only for the dress shredding scene , this has enough laughs to keep the plot spinning as WHOOPI GOLDBERG gets deeper and deeper into deep you know what trying to help some guy in Russia do his spy thing . It's all impossible , shows the technological gap existing between then and now with old computers , and all the while has Whoopi cutting loose as only she can . The scene at the Embassy ball and the telephone scene with her being dragged through the city streets , are just two of the highlights in this comedy directed by Penny Marshall . STEPHEN COLLINS is totally wasted as the office worker replacement who lends some mild mannered assistance , as are JAMES BELUSHI and JONATHAN PRYCE in small parts , but since the film depends heavily on Whoopi for all the laughs , it doesn't matter much . PETER MICHAEL GOETZ is excellent as her impatient boss . The plot is a flimsy spy plot with lots of sight gags as Whoopi flits around New York City keeping one step ahead of the bad guys . Passes the time and is generally good fun , but it's peppered with lots of profanity and vulgarisms , mostly from Whoopi , of course .
Louis Hayward makes an interesting " Saint " . . .	Before George Sanders took over the role , it went to LOUIS HAYWARD for THE SAINT IN NEW YORK . Hayward was an interesting actor who should have had a better career than he did in Hollywood , proving that when he got a chance to play an interesting scoundrel ( " Ladies in Retirement " ) , he was fearless in letting his bad side show . Too bad he didn't play " The Saint " more often in the string of films RKO came up with in the ' 40s . He's good , better than his material here which is strictly a by-the-numbers sort of thing . " You should have a question mark after your name , " he tells his romantic interest , KAY SUTTON , a dark beauty who looks somewhat like a softer version of Gail Patrick . She's an enigmatic woman and remains so since her character is never developed . Hayward joins the search for " The Big Fellow " , head of a crime gang wanted by the NYPD and along the way encounters several misadventures with mob members being disposed of in his unorthodox way . Interesting to see JACK Carson , JONATHAN HALE and SIG RUMAN in the supporting cast . Modestly entertaining but nothing special in this series .
Wartime prison break makes better than average B-film . . .	Thanks to the fast-moving direction of Edward Dmytryk , SEVEN MILES FROM ALCATRAZ makes for a diverting prison break film , although it definitely shows its B-film origins . In fact , the last twenty minutes is strictly cliffhanger stuff that would have made good material for a Saturday afternoon serial . It's got lots of wartime propaganda and the plot about Nazi spies using a lighthouse as an operation for their espionage is hard to swallow , but it works as an adventure film with an interesting locale and some competent players . JAMES CRAIG carries most of the film on his sturdy shoulders , a handsome and rugged leading man who never quite made it to major stardom . FRANK JENKS is " Jimbo " , his sidekick , and the supporting cast includes BONITA GRANVILLE ( in one of her more underplayed roles ) , GEORGE CLEVELAND and CLIFF EDWARDS , who does his bug-eyed comic relief with a little too much relish . There's plenty of action along with the talky moments . Fortunately , the action far outweighs any sense the script makes and is well staged by director Dmytryk . Craig gives one of his livelier performances as the escaped convict with a yen for Granville . Passes the time quickly and it's easy to get hooked into the spy aspect of the story , but it's nothing special .
Mixture of old and new in India . . .	" Colorful Bombay " offers an intriguing glimpse of the old and new traditions , side by side in India , opening with a shot of the impressive Taj Mahal Hotel , a sprawling complex in the midst of a bustling city . At the lower end of the spectrum , we view the hard workers occupying the lowest end of the caste system , all laboring to build a house with men and women sharing heavy duties . A simpler life style is shown in the fishing villages . Still another aspect of India is " the racetrack " where every color and creed mixes to enjoy the sight of horses racing along the track to the finish line . The narration refers to Bombay as " the gateway to India " as we leave the city .
Two ex-vaudevillians re-team for a TV special . . .	I forgot to mention - - two " cranky " ex-vaudevillians to be exact . It's the cranky humorous jibes between WALTER MATTHAU and GEORGE BURNS ( in his Oscar-winning role at 79 ) , that makes the film . The supporting cast does what they can to keep things flowing at a smooth pace , but it's really almost a two-character story with Matthau and Burns both on their toes delivering some ripe lines . RICHARD BENJAMIN makes little impression as the nephew who comes up with the idea for a TV reunion . Matthau is the least accustomed to retirement , grudgingly stating that Burns retired " in the middle of my career . " He has no use for the sort of contented retiremenet in the New Jersey suburbs that Burns has assumed , sitting around and waiting for his grandchildren to come home from school , etc . When it's all over , and you're pretty exhausted from laughing at the jokes , you might realize there's nothing really substantial about the plot . It's sort of like The Odd Couple facing their old age . Only occasionally does it stop and reflect with a tinge of sadness about the ramifications of age - - but then it moves on to the next gag . Summing up : Good Neil Simon comedy knows how to brighten up the screen for awhile .
Sheer escapist fluff but fun to watch when Powell dances . . .	ELEANOR POWELL was in top tap-dancing form when she made SHIP AHOY ! with RED SKELTON as her bumbling co-star and BERT LAHR for some added laughs , along with VIRGINIA O'BRIEN . It's a daffy story about a gal asked to transport a magnetic mine aboard a ship to San Juan , Puerto Rico during World War II when Nazi spies were rampant in films of this sort . Her mission is soon in peril and the rest of the plot has her managing to stave off the bad guys with the help of Skelton and Lahr . Worthwhile really only for the dancing talents of ELEANOR POWELL , who does a specialty number involving Buddy Rich on the drums that has to be seen to be believed . And watch for the young FRANK SINATRA singing with Tommy Dorsey and his Orchestra . It's a minor MGM musical comedy that deserves at least one watch .
Featurette is concerned mostly about the casting . . .	Don't expect a comprehensive , detailed coverage of THE MAKING OF ' THE QUEEN ' from this short featurette that appears on the DVD of THE QUEEN . Most of it is directed towards the cast and how they interpreted their roles . HELEN MIRREN claims that it was " dangerous to play a living person " and that at first she was nervous about assuming the role . Then she worked out the look of the character - - the hair , the stance , the voice - - and knew she wanted to project great self-control and dignity . MICHAEL SHEEN watched many videos of Tony Blair to observe and study his mannerisms , trying to find " little hooks as to what's going on in the character's mind " . JAMES CROMWELL knew that Prince Philip had to be portrayed more than just in the speech , but with the spirit within . To impersonate would be a trap . SYLVIA SYMS saw the Queen as a " tiny person who had this sparkle " . STEPHEN FREARS had his own doubts and misgivings about tackling the direction of such a project , but was enthusiastic about it once things got started and he felt the actors were doing a wonderful job . The production designers describe their own feelings about creating the world these people lived in , as well as the costume designer and others involved in the film's look . But no mention is made of the script itself , how it evolved , how much was based on actual knowledge of the intimate conversations that make up the bulk of the story . This would have provided more gravitas to the whole thing . Interesting for what is presented , but not entirely satisfying . One fact that interested me is that the director wanted to show Blair's new world vision for Britain as opposed to the Queen's old-fashioned one .
Bonita Granville stars in the first of the Nancy Drew films . . .	While not quite capturing the essence and old-fashioned charm of the original Nancy Drew novels , Warner Bros . turned out a series of pleasant programmers starring BONITA GRANVILLE as the teen-age sleuth who is a lot smarter at solving crimes than her elders . The Nancy Drew of the original stories came across as a bit more sophisticated in her behavior than she is in any of the Nancy Drew films . And sometimes Granville's girlish behavior borders on brat territory and can be slightly annoying - - but overall she's a bundle of teen-age energy in the role and FRANKIE THOMAS as Ted makes an appealing helpmate out of a rather colorless role . JOHN LITEL , a reliable Warner contract player , is perfectly cast as Nancy's attorney father . The story involves the disappearance of a nice old lady who has contributed a good sum of money to Nancy's school and then promptly disappears from sight . Nancy takes a chance on tracking her down ( in some highly improbable ways ) and she and her boyfriend are able to solve the case in time for the predictable happy ending . Based on " The Password to Larkspur Lane " , it passes the time pleasantly enough in a modest running time , although it's not without its faults and is clearly aimed at younger viewers familiar with the Drew stories . Summing up : A fairly good start to the series .
Eleanor Powell bursts into stardom as a great dancer . . .	Although this is clearly a showcase for the talented dynamo ELEANOR POWELL , MGM's forerunner to the tap-dancing Ann Miller , Broadway MELODY OF 1936 has some painfully clumsy musical moments that are mercifully offset by some brilliant dance routines by Powell . You have to take the good with the bad , and thankfully , the best moments are worth watching . Worst of the lot , is the tenement roof dance " Sing Before Breakfast " sung by Buddy and Velma Ebsen while Powell does the dance steps , possibly the clumsiest musical moment in the whole film with an uninspired song to boot . But when Powell is daydreaming to " You Are My Lucky Star " her dancing reaches the zenith of her particular appeal as a performer . Lots of other musical moments are equally worthwhile , but as said before , there are some poorly staged moments too . In fact , the whole story is an uneven blend of music and dance with a thin story serving as a mere excuse to introduce each new number . JACK BENNY , as a gossip columnist , and PHIL SILVERS , as " Snoop " , his sidekick , have some funny moments in early screen appearances , and MGM's matinée idol ROBERT TAYLOR gets to sing a ditty or two in a pleasing enough fashion . Powell was always dubbed for her singing , in this case by Frances Langford . It's not the best of the Broadway MELODY flicks , but has its moments of pure fun with the very talented Powell proving that she could even act a little between dance numbers .
Psychological noir provides gritty role for Robert Ryan . . .	ROBERT RYAN has to carry at least forty-five minutes of the first half of ON DANGEROUS GROUND which seems to be establishing the story as a tough crime drama with some interesting looks at the tough as nails cop ( Ryan ) who is accused of not caring about people other than seeing all thugs as human punching bags . When he's forced to take a change of scene away from the big city , he's sent to a rural farm where the police are on the lookout for a man who has murdered a young woman . WARD BOND shows up as the woman's father who wants nothing more than to seek immediate revenge on the killer whom he's willing to kill with his bare hands . They seek shelter in IDA LUPINO's house and both of them suspect immediately that she's sheltering the killer . It turns out that she's a blind woman protecting her mentally deficient brother whom she knows did commit the crime - - but she makes a pact with Ryan that he won't use brute force on her brother when they do capture him . What happens next would give away too much of the plot , but suffice it to say that from the moment they enter Lupino's home the film veers more into psychological drama than noir , as the puzzle surrounding the murderer and his capturers becomes clear . All of the melodrama is directed with a firm hand by Nicholas Ray . Summing up : A fascinating mix of crime drama and psychology with sterling performances from the entire cast . Lupino is sensitive as the blind girl and Ryan is at his best as the conflicted policeman . Trivia note : Bernard Herrmann's score is a bit bombastic ( beginning with the opening credits ) but there are tender passages as well . All in all , very effective .
Another ghoulish Poe / Corman production handsomely mounted . . .	While TALES OF TERROR is not my favorite of the Roger Corman / Edgar Allen Poe / Vincent Price outings , it's ghoulish fun to watch since the cast includes such horror stalwarts as BASIL RATHBONE and PETER LORRE joining VINCENT PRICE for three handsomely produced tales supposedly based on some Poe tales of terror . The first tale is preoccupied with the spirit of a dead woman getting revenge on the daughter who caused her death and is pretty reminiscent of too many other Poe tales dealing with the undead . The second , THE BLACK CAT , takes only some of the material from that tale and turns it into a combination of horror and sophisticated fun as VINCENT PRICE plays a wine taster to good comic effect . PETER LORRE is the man who despises cats and makes the mistake of burying the cat in the same tomb as his wife and her lover . Despite changes from the original tale , it's only partially successful in providing chills because there's too much emphasis on the drunken Peter Lorre for comedy rather than horror . The third tale is the most satisfying , with BASIL RATHBONE as a man who mesmerizes a man's dying moments so he won't feel too much pain as he passes into the beyond - - but finds that his control over the man's soul is not as complete as he thought it was . DEBRA PAGET is absolutely stunning as his wife , easily one of the most beautiful faces ever to grace the screen . The final moments of the story are strikingly photographed so that Price's " dead make-up " makes his waking moments even more horrifying . While this is the weakest of the Corman / Price productions for AFI , it holds attention all the way through and Les Baxter again provides a suitable background score that adds to the menacing atmosphere . All the technical credits are excellent , making this look like a much more high-budget entry than it probably is .
Tasteful musical remake of " Four Daughters " . . .	FRANK SINATRA followed up his " From Here To Eternity " triumph by starring opposite DORIS DAY in a musical remake of " Four Daughters " called YOUNG AT HEART . He gets even better song material than Day , including memorable versions of " Young at Heart " and " One for My Baby " , but Day is compensated by a nice dramatic role that gets her brand of warmth and sincerity , as well as a duet with Sinatra on " You , My Love " . ETHEL BARRYMORE is the elderly aunt and ROBERT KEITH is the father , while GIG YOUNG plays the young man that Day almost marries until she discovers that her sister is broken-hearted over their upcoming marriage . Instead , she runs off with the loner , Barny ( Sinatra ) , and has a rather tumultuous marriage that she's determined to salvage . This version of the tale has her succeed , avoiding the downbeat ending of the original in which the John Garfield character ( played by Sinatra ) died . It's pleasant , nostalgic and the kind of musical they never make any more . Particularly sensitive performances from Sinatra , Day and Gig Young under Gordon Douglas ' direction . Worth seeing for fans of Day and Sinatra especially . The only big difference between this and the original is that color and music have been added . Otherwise , the script is pretty close to the 1938 version directed by Michael Curtiz .
Overblown musical lacks a dazzling score . . .	ANNIE is about the world's most famous comic strip orphan , who finds herself in Miss Hannigan's ( CAROL BURNETT ) Hudson Street orphanage where the gin-soaked headmistress is full of one-liners like " Why any kid would want to be an orphan , I don't know ! " And Carol is just what this musical , directed by John Huston , needs . She brightens every moment with her winning presence in a sometimes hilarious role . As her cohorts , BERNADETTE PETERS and TIM CURRY are not far behind . Annie is rescued from the clutches of Miss Hannigan by Daddy Warbucks ( a bald-headed ALBERT FINNEY ) , who , unfortunately , has some of the show's weakest songs . It's while Annie's at the orphanage that she and the kids bust out in the show's best number , " The Hard Knocks Life " . But the trouble is none of the other songs are substantial enough to give the musical elements the lift they need . John Huston is a curious choice as director , but he does get good performances from his entire cast , including AILEEN QUINN as the moppet with the big voice whose tremulous rendition of " Tomorrow " becomes almost an anthem when she sings it at the White House for F . D . R . Summing up : Overblown , overlong stage musical turned into a less than spectacular success on screen .
Wartime propaganda film exposes the Mr . - Know-It-Alls spreading false rumors . . .	This short subject is typical of the wartime propaganda films warning us against believing all the false rumors spread by the Mr . Blabbermouths in society who want to impress others with their know-it-all attitudes in spreading misinformation . Since we all know people like Mr . Blabbermouth , it's easy to accept the idea that common sense must prevail against this sort of thing if we're to be good citizens . World War II was rife with sayings like : " Loose lips sink ships . " Taking a stance against the Mr . Blabbermouths of the world was commonly accepted as the right thing to do . Based on an editorial that appeared in The Los Angeles Daily News , it begins with a blackout during an air raid alarm and shows how the gossipers talked about it the next day , with some of them spreading false rumors implying that the Japanese were better equipped for war since they'd been training for it for years . We then see some amusing sequences of Mr . Blabbermouth spreading his own lies and finally getting his comeuppance from the neighborhood barber who knows how to shut him up . Along the way , the narrator points out how much better equipped the United States was than Japan in terms of military preparations to fight back against the attack with a wealth of aluminum and steel . Amusing and timely , it's done with a sense of humor but teaches a good lesson .
Outdoor adventure with rugged Gable and radiant Loretta Young . . .	Too bad THE CALL OF THE WILD wasn't filmed in color because it looks mighty picturesque in classic B & W cinematography filmed in Washington state . CLARK GABLE , as a gold prospector , and LORETTA YOUNG , as his female interest , provide the right chemistry for the romantic angle of the tale . JACK OAKIE is along to supply some laughs that seem forced and not really necessary - - but fans of outdoor adventures will surely like this Jack London tale that has been turned into a vehicle for Gable and Young . BUCK , the dog , is especially impressive as an animal caught between the " call of the wild " - - wolves , that is - - and his human relationship with owner Gable . He's good at showing little nuances that indicate he's uncertain whether to leave Gable or not to follow his natural instincts when he hears the cry of the wolves . REGINALD OWEN makes an impressive villain and FRANK CONROY is fine as Loretta's husband . Most chilling scene of all has the greedy men who steal the gold drowning in the rapids when their canoe overturns and they're dragged down by the weight of the gold they're carrying . The chemistry between Gable and Young is strong - - and she looks lovelier than ever in all her close-ups . Most fans know that she and Gable were having a torrid romance at the time .
Demolitions and natural disasters caught by the candid camera . . .	Some interesting glimpses of natural disasters and demolition projects are revealed in THE CAMERA CAUGHT IT . It starts with the weather , scenes of heavy snowfalls and even heavier rains making life unbearable for humans and animals ; a demolition project with the crowd anticipating the blast ; men trying to " emulate the birds " by flying off a bridge in a man-made contraption that promptly sinks into the water or a man with a " sky flying machine " who gets nowhere fast except for vibrating up and down in his inventive jalopy . An auto race in which one of the cars turns into a flaming torch ( nobody was killed ) while other cars swerve to avoid the flames and all of them providing spectators with a number of crashes . And finally , a suspension bridge the narrator calls " Galloping Gertie , " swerving to and fro as though pushed by a heavy breeze until it finally loses its grip and falls into the water . Quite an eyeful of candid moments caught by the camera . The mushroom cloud that swirls around after a building demolition is an eerie reminder for today's viewer of what happened when the Twin Towers fell on .
Good and bad twins , courtesy of Conrad Veidt . . .	This was a nice little programmer from the ' 40s that played the lower half of double-features . CONRAD VEIDT is interesting ( as always ) as a pair of identical twins , one of whom is a Nazi agent . When the bad brother is killed , the good brother takes his place and has to convince everyone that he is the loyal Nazi . Only gradually do a couple of people come to realize who the man really is . Veidt excels in the kind of role he always fared well in , especially riveting as the bad twin . Not the leading man type , he nevertheless manages to hold the screen with his histrionic finesse at playing either smooth villains or men with deeper convictions of honor . ANNE AYARS is the lovely romantic lead and the supporting cast , which includes MARTIN KOSLECK as a fierce Nazi ( a role he's played so often and so well ) is more than adequate . Good entertainment of its kind , it's a low-budget film directed by Jules Dassin .
Ray Milland hits the bottle again in modest drama . . .	RAY MILLAND is a troubled professor who seems to be wallowing in self-pity shortly after the death of his wife and son in a house fire . He begins to scare people with his brusque behavior , both in and out of the classroom . NANCY DAVIS and JOHN HODIAK are sympathetic friends who offer him loyal support - - but nobody seems able to help Milland who seems to want to spend more time with the bottle than anything else . The self-pity angle goes on for too long to make Milland's character likable , although his acting is quietly underplayed and altogether believable . " I know you want to help me . Most people do , but you can't , " he tells Davis who had to get over her own sense of loss in the past . Davis is full of platitudes and is almost too nice , but she too plays her role well , as does Hodiak . This goes on for the first hour and the main interest in the story is to see how and when Milland will snap out of it . Toward the end of the film he's still telling a waitress , " Find me a glass without a hole in the bottom . " It takes a student athlete unable to pass one of Milland's exams that sets the plot on a final course wherein a driving accident lands him in jail and on probation . But Milland's change of heart enables him to give the flunking college student ( JONATHAN COTT ) another chance to pass , which he does , and he goes about setting in motion his final will , leaving his kid's bike to the boy's best friend . What happens after that , is quite predictable , but once again it's Nancy to the rescue . Honest telling of a troubling tale of a man attempting to solve his problems with alcohol . Nowhere as engaging or powerful as Milland's most famous film , THE LOST WEEKEND , but a modestly successful drama on its own merits .
Ken Russell satisfies a taste for the bizarre and erotic . . .	Leave it to director Ken Russell to find an obscure Bram Stoker novel and take its most exploitive elements and turn it into a bloodfest of snakes , vampires , virgin sacrifices , phallic symbols , Christian symbolism and more . He throws in some comic book slashings along with some sly humor to create a tacky Gothic horror called THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM . It kept me awake until the last shot where the dimwit hero HUGH GRANT is about to find out he's made another mistake before the screen fades to black . This must have been the film that first made Grant known to American audiences . He plays an aristocrat who is attracted to a new neighbor whom he later learns is a woman ( AMANDA DONOHOE ) who is keeper of a giant worm waiting to devour people whole if she decides to feed victims to it . She's played with delicious relish by Donohoe , who picks up a scout trudging along a deserted country road and must quickly dispose of him in a bath when Grant knocks on her door . It's weird stuff from start to finish , but try to look away ! It's typical Ken Russell overkill - - or should I say overbite - - since much of the action involves vampirism and some friendly suburbanites who suddenly grow fangs . Handsomely photographed in color with attractive settings indoor and out , it provides a steady mix of laughter and fright while managing to be entertaining despite the overly weird material . CATHERINE OXENBERG plays the virginal heroine who falls under the spell of the demonic woman , at her best when forced to assume a vacant expression . PETER CAPALDI is excellent as Hugh's friend who comes to her aid before the white worm can do its work and claim another victim . Silly stuff , but if you like the work of Ken Russell , you should find it extremely interesting to watch .
" How does your garden grow ? " might have been a better title . . .	Lots of mordant humor and a clever plot twist at the end are sufficient reason for watching WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO AUNT ALICE ? , but when a cast includes GERALDINE PAGE , RUTH GORDON and MILDRED DUNNOCK and promises to be a suspenseful film along the lines of BABY JANE and HUSH . . . HUSH , SWEET CHARLOTTE , you owe it to yourself to watch it . It works not so much because the story ( an eerie one , to be sure ) is so original , but because the cat-and-mouse aspect of the story which has Geraldine Page and Ruth Gordon as adversaries in a household fraught with suspicion ( of murder ) , is what hooks the most interest in this vastly entertaining little shocker . However , it's a quiet one , building its suspense slowly as we come to realize just how manipulative and cunning Page's character is . She's a woman , believing her husband has left her penniless , who moves to Arizona where she will be near her nephew . But she's intent on hiring lonely housekeepers and murdering them to steal their savings . ( Not unlike some real-life events depicted in a gruesome TV documentary recently ) . After disposing of her victims she buries them in her garden and plants another tree to mark the spot . It seems they flourish nicely , hence my suggestion above for a better title . Gordon pretends to apply for a job after the last housekeeper has gone missing and is actually doing some detective work on her own . It's her scenes with Page that make the whole film so satisfying . It's not a great horror film but it does have its moments , thanks mostly to GERALDINE PAGE who does a marvelous job at showing us all the tics and nuances of a very eccentric woman who means to get her way , no matter what she has to do . It's a ruthless , cunning role and Page makes the most of it .
Another Pygmalion story about a concert pianist and her cruel guardian . . .	British films were beginning to attract more attention from American audiences by the time THE SEVENTH VEIL appeared on U . S . screens , and audiences took to JAMES MASON as the overly possessive guardian of ANN TODD , even though the character he played had some very unpleasant traits - - such as using his cane on the woman's fingers when a burst of temper had him out of control . It's the odd love / hate relationship between Mason and Todd that carries the film . Unfortunately , it carries it into the realm of theatricality when the relationship is shown at its most troubled stages . The film begins with the young woman attempting suicide from a bridge , and then the film becomes a study in psychological terms about the reason for her aversion to the piano with flashbacks serving as the means to unravel the cause of her illness . Some of it is very effective and certainly it's the reason JAMES MASON was discovered by Hollywood - - but it has to be viewed in the context of the time when psychology was being explored by both British and Hollywood filmmakers and audiences apparently embraced such stories . Mason's effectiveness in what could have been a highly unsympathetic role is what makes the film superior . Todd , while excellent at appearing to be a concert pianist , is less successful as a dramatic actress . A stronger performer in her role might have made the film more convincing than it is - - particularly in making the sappy ending more convincing . It appears to have been tacked on solely to please audiences rather than being a truthful outcome to a story involving such strong-willed characters .
One of the better TV translations of an Agatha Christie novel . . .	JOAN HICKSON was an excellent Jane Marple and this is definitely one of the better TV works of Agatha Christie's A POCKET FULL OF RYE . The clever plotting uses a nursery rhyme ( one of Christie's favorite ways of linking a complex set of clues to a murder ) , and gives a nice assortment of suspicious characters a chance to make the perfect sort of red herrings . The mystery gets underway as soon as Rex Fortescue is killed . He's a rich , nasty old man who has a fortune tied to some nasty business in his past , and enough enemies to make everyone a likely suspect . Crisply acted and played in elegant British fashion by an assortment of reliable British supporting players , it keeps you interested in solving the crime along with the baffled inspector , who is no match for Miss Marple . Hickson is perfectly cast as the wise old lady and makes the character seem as though Christie had her in mind for the role .
Constance Bennett plays a shopgirl who finds an easier way . . .	Pre-code films are always fun to watch although they do seem primitive by today's standards . But as a measure of what Hollywood was able to do despite film censorship that had to downplay the more censorable aspects of the original story , this is pretty risqué for its time . Bennett , of course , was the Joan Crawford of her era , always playing a put upon heroine in sob stories that never had too much credibility . Here she pines for Robert Montgomery ( singularly lacking in the big romantic star department , even then ) , while her disapproving brother-in-law ( Clark Gable in an early role ) , frowns on her unorthodox behavior as a kept woman ( Adolphe Menjou is the rich sugar daddy ) . Enjoyable only as a relic . Bennett does a passable job , no more , her false eyelashes and peroxide blonde hair making her look a little harsh under those kleig lights . But the most natural performance , as well as the most charisma , is clearly Clark Gable's . He comes across as a handsome newcomer who steals a scene by his mere presence . He has the final Christmas scene with Bennett , and it's a touching one . He would later become the big romantic male star that Robert Montgomery failed to develop into .
Richard Dix takes on another role in " The Whistler " series . . .	A neat entry from the series has RICHARD DIX playing a man who wants to get rid of his wife for a younger woman ( LESLIE BROOKS ) . What he doesn't know is that his wife learns about his affair with the young blonde model and is recording her thoughts in a diary . When his wife dies , he does marry again - - but has to play a cat-and-mouse game with his new wife when she begins to suspect him of murder . Dix plays his role quite effectively and Leslie Brooks is stunning as the blonde beauty . She never had a better chance than she does here , but unfortunately Columbia was never able to find anything but supporting roles for her in B-films of the period . Suspenseful , it takes awhile before the tense proceedings start to tighten up , but it's worth ending for the good finale . MICHAEL DUANE has a small supporting role as an artist but gets star billing . Well directed by George Sherman , these series are better than average programmers .
Pleasant trifle . . . typical Warner Bros . formula musical . . .	While THE TIME , THE PLACE AND THE GIRL never rises above being a pleasant little " let's put on a show " musical , it does feature a few sprightly song numbers that are easy on the eyes and ears - - and all of the performances are genial and appealing . Dennis Morgan and Jack Carson are ideal as show biz guys willing to put something over on Martha Vickers in order to get backing for their enterprise . Vickers comes across as even more appealing than she was in THE BIG SLEEP as the nymphomaniacal daughter . And for good measure , there's the always vivacious Janis Paige doing her standard musical comedy thing with finesse . Donald Woods does a standout job as the stuffy tutor of musical pupil Vickers . Comic relief from Florence Bates and S . Z . Sakall is a big help - - especially since the script itself is none too witty . But what really makes the film a special delight are the handsome production values which went into this formula musical and two outstanding songs that are given first-rate treatment : A GIRL FROM CALICO and A RAINY NIGHT IN RIO . If you like backstage musicals , you'll enjoy this minor delight .
Sassy comedy has Thelma Ritter in rare leading role . . .	Whatever merit THE MODEL AND THE MARRIAGE BROKER has is due entirely to the caustic , funny performance of Thelma Ritter as Mae , the lady with the New York accent who went into the broker business to make other ladies happy ( after her own unhappy romantic past ) . And it's a good thing Thelma carries the film , with the expert help of a few very good character roles - - one in particular being MICHAEL O'SHEA , as a card-playing friend prone to giving her advice . SCOTT BRADY does a nice job as an eligible bachelor who shares some good scenes with Ritter and JEANNE CRAIN . But Jeanne Crain is the problem . She looks so cool and detached as the unhappy model that it throws the comedy aspects a little off focus . She seems to be walking through her part instead of conveying any real emotion . Still , a worthwhile little gem strictly because of Thelma Ritter . She's finally got a leading role and she runs away with it . Nicely directed at a brisk pace by George Cukor .
Entertaining evening with Bette and admirers . . .	It's always interesting to see a well-deserved tribute to one of Hollywood's busiest actresses during the Golden Age , and especially when so many of her friends and co-stars were still living and able to attend such a ceremony . The AFI's salute to BETTE DAVIS was a star-studded event , including brief talks from such luminaries as GERALDINE FITZGERALD , PAUL HENRIED , ROBERT WAGNER , NATALIE WOOD , OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND , WILLIAM WYLER and others . I read afterwards that NATLIE WOOD was annoyed that Olivia brought up the fact that she too had won two Oscars while talking about Bette - - as if she was taking some of the spotlight away from Bette's success . I do recall de Havilland saying something like : " I always wanted the career that Bette had . " But since she and Bette Davis remained good friends , I don't think Olivia was trying to upstage Bette at all . All in all , a fun evening - - especially for fans of Bette Davis and the Golden Age of movies .
Vintage Glenn Miller and the Nicholas Bros . make this film worthwhile . . .	You gotta hand it to GLENN MILLER AND HIS ORCHESTRA . Their leader may lack acting charisma but he's got a band that plays great tunes with that unmistakable Miller sound and some good band singers to do the tunes justice . And the producers of this movie were wise to use The Nicholas Bros . , an acrobatic dance trio that do outstanding routines to " I've Got A Gal in Kalamazoo " . But the plot , well that's another story . It's one of those catty backstage plots about a group of orchestra wives and the jealousy that erupts when an innocent young girl ( ANN RUTHERFORD ) joins the group only to discover that her husband's ex-flame is still carrying the torch for him , and will stop at nothing to win him back . What happens among the group is pretty hard to swallow , but it's just a device to make way for hearing Miller and his band in their glory days . As in SUN VALLEY SERENADE , it's the musical numbers that knock the film out of pedestrian and into the winner's circle with numbers like " Serenade in Blue " , " At Last " , " I've Got a Gal in Kalamazoo " , and " People Like You and Me " . It's also a pleasure to rediscover singers like Marion Hutton , Tex Benecke , Ray Eberle and The Modernaires . Pretty ANN RUTHERFORD and handsome GEORGE MONTGOMERY do nicely in the romantic leads and it's s fun way to spend time listening to Miller and his boys . CAROLE LANDIS , MARY BETH HUGHES and LYNN BARI sharpen their claws on some sassy dialog . It's fun !
Where is Dorothy Lamour when you need her ? . . .	HEDY LAMARR may have been one of BOB HOPE's most glamorous co-stars , but she lacks the sort of comic timing needed for any female who plays opposite the hyper-active Hope . She never loses her poise no matter how ridiculous the situations are , but she never looks at home in this kind of spy story that even has her doing a nightclub act - - singing the kind of sultry song that Dorothy Lamour could always put over . It's in the nightclub scene that she looks most uncomfortable as a performer , obviously dubbed by a real singer . The story itself is the kind of mistaken identity thing that either Hope or Danny Kaye had done many times before and there's nothing new in the way of original material . It's a pleasant enough spoof of spy stories about a cowardly impostor ( Hope ) assigned by the government to obtain a top secret microfilm from spies in Tangier . Hope is his usual cowardly self and has to be prodded by the contact man ( ARNOLD MOSS ) to carry out the assignment , which he is more than willing to do once he meets the alluring Lamarr . This was part of Hedy's deal with Paramount to give them another film after SAMSON AND DELILAH - - and there's even a bit of Victor Young's " Samson and Delilah " theme played by the orchestra in the nightclub scene . Hope , who has all the best lines , plays the impostor with his usual comic finesse and gets away with varying amounts of mugging whenever the script isn't funny enough . Hedy tries valiantly to keep up with him , but she's just a little too restrained to make her efforts seem casual and effortless - - as they should . The screwball slapstick for the finale keeps things rushing along toward the predictable conclusion , but it's the sort of average entertainment that pleased Hope's fans who enjoyed his comic energy in this sort of espionage romp from time to time .
Brando and his motorcycle gang ride into town . . .	MARLON BRANDO rides into town leading a pack of wild motorcycle riders who proceed to terrorize a hick town before LEE MARVIN shows up and gets into a drunken fight with Brando ( as Johnny ) . Meantime , Johnny flirts dangerously with a cop's daughter ( MARY MURPHY ) who runs a cafe . Her father is played by ROBERT KEITH , a lawman who's reticent about using his authority with a bunch of motorcycle thugs . Tension builds when Keith manages to haul Lee Marvin off to jail . Brando's buddies manage to get a hold of one of the town bullies and put him in the jail cell with the drunken Marvin who has passed out . They then go on a wild rampage but not before some of the town's men decide to form a vigilante squad and go after Brando . Brando has a brief romantic fling with the girl who realizes loving him is a lost cause . POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD The plot moves swiftly to a conclusion once the girl is able to convince the authorities that he wasn't responsible for the death of an elderly bystander hit by a motorcycle . Stanley Kramer production has a nice , tense background score by Leith Stevens . Summing up : Early Brando is impressive to watch , but much of the dialog is very dated and anchored firmly in the 1950s by the slang and be-bop expressions and overall concept of the film . Famous for the moment when a girl taunts him with : " What are you rebelling against ? " Brando's terse reply : " What have you got ? "
Here's a film that definitely deserves the mixed reviews . . .	MR . BROOKS is the kind of suspense film that manages to hold your attention from the very start and then , just when you think you know where it's all going , you find out you've been duped . Midway through the film you realize you don't even know where the story is going with its many strands that don't seem to connect . In other words , there's nothing predictable about the outcome but while that would ordinarily be a good thing , here the effect is a handicap because there are too many unexplained elements in the script and too many loose ends . Nevertheless , some of it is very clever and intriguing , a sort of Dr . Jekyll / Mr . Hyde story with KEVIN COSTNER struggling to be good and leave his bad deeds behind him but egged on by his alter ego ( WILLIAM HURT ) to kill again . What the screenplay fails to do is to connect the three main stories that are being spun into one cohesive whole . As a result , at the end there's a letdown feeling that nothing has really been satisfactorily explained . It's taut and suspenseful and should satisfy most fans of this genre , but it's a psychological thriller that would have been even better with a fully realized script . The performances are fine . KEVIN COSTNER is especially good in some of the climactic scenes after a rather dull beginning but it's DANE COOK as Mr . Smith , the twisted and temperamental photographer who catches a murder on film and has a strange request , that gives the film its most intense moments as he tries to outfox the clever Mr . Brooks . I've liked WILLIAM HURT in many other roles , but find his character more annoying and repelling than merely evil . Summing up : A psychological thriller that is sometimes dull , sometimes riveting as it tries hard to rise above the level of a cluttered script and only partially succeeds . There's a Dr . Jekyll / Mr . Hyde flavor to the whole story . The Demi Moore sub-plot is totally out of whack with the rest of the story .
Best segment has Sinatra reunited with Gene Kelly . . .	Sinatra came out after retirement , at age 57 , to do another of his concerts , this time backed by the wonderful Gordon Jenkins and Dan Costa and with guest star GENE KELLY , at age 61 . Frankie starts off with a standard called YOU WILL BE MY MUSIC before getting into some oldies like I GET NO KICK FROM CHAMPAGNE , STREET OF DREAMS , I'VE GOT YOU UNDER MY SKIN , I'VE GOT THE WORLD ON A STRING and LAST NIGHT WHEN WE WERE YOUNG . His voice is not quite as mellow as it was in the past and he doesn't hold onto the end notes the way he used to , but he's still in good form and the band sounds great . You can spot some celebrities in the audience , including Richard Conte and Lucille Ball . He talks briefly about films he'd rather forget - - like HIGHER AND HIGHER , JOHNNY CONCHO , THE KISSING BANDIT ( that one got lots of laughs ) , and the " one about the cannon " - - you know , THE PRIDE AND THE PASSION with Cary Grant and Sophia Loren . Then comes the best part of the program - - his easiness and charm comes through as he greets his guest , GENE KELLY , after clips from " Take Me Out to the Ball Game " and " Anchors Aweigh " are shown . They both start to talk about the old days at MGM and sing a little ditty called " We Can't Do That Any More " , but little by little they ease into some dance steps and before you know it , Gene Kelly is doing some good taps ( without getting too strenuous ) and so is Frank . Another great moment comes when Frank sings " Nice and Easy Does It " while Gene goes into his dance , up and down steps , but mostly taking it easy . At the end of this number , they both get huge applause . Frankie ends his show with " Let Me Try Again " and the beautiful ballad , " Send in the Clowns " ( which I myself performed publicly a few times ) . For the finale , a reprise , this time the complete song of YOU WILL BE MY MUSIC and the show ends . Summing up : Nice work by Frank and Gene , and especially the skillful and scintillating sounds of that orchestra on all of the music .
Melodramatic Victorian tale from Ben Ames Williams . . .	1840s Bangor , Maine is the setting for THE STRANGE WOMAN , by the author Ben Ames Williams , who also set his modern story of a jealous woman in the same sort of Maine setting for " Leave Her To Heaven " . This one does not have the production values of the Fox film , is directed by a less distinguished director , Edgar G . Ulmer , but gives HEDY LAMARR a stronger role than usual while at the same time permitting her to be her beautiful self . As Jenny , she's really the stock heroine of the sort of novels Williams wrote , centering around jealous women who destroy the men in their lives by their shallow nature . Hedy first marries a wealthy man ( GENE LOCKHART ) for his money , then latches onto his weak son ( LOUIS HAYWARD ) whom she convinces to kill her husband during a boating accident , then sets her cap for a man she puts in charge of her husband's business ( GEORGE SANDERS ) , never minding that he's already got a sweetheart ( HILLARY BROOKE ) , and eventually coming between them in a less than subtle way . In fact , all of Hedy's machinations are less than subtle , accompanied by some dramatic background music by Carmen Dragon , and enhanced by close-ups of the star flaring her nostrils and posing provocatively in shadow or light , never once looking less than rapturously beautiful . Despite all her physical charms , it's clear that her acting , while acceptable , at the same time has severe limitations . Her face remains a beautiful mask whether she's suffering nobly or expressing radiant delight that her multiple schemes are working . LOUIS HAYWARD is a bit too old for the role of a man returning from college to live with his father and his step-mother , but acquits himself well in the role nevertheless . GEORGE SANDERS has a rather nondescript role for an actor of his brittle charm , obviously so enamored of Jenny that he overlooks all the puzzling elements that go into making her " a strange woman " . DENNIS HOEY is excellent as Jenny's drunken father in the early scenes and ALAN NAPIER is effective in a brief supporting role . Production values are less than luxurious despite the detailed sets and the B & W photography suffers from the under-lit lighting , not helped by the fact that the print itself being shown on TCM is not high quality and sometimes gives the film a harsh look rather than Gothic grandeur . For Lamarr's fans , it's one of her better vehicles at a time when she was free-lancing away from MGM . At least the story gives her more of a chance to show some dramatic talent that was largely obscured in most of her MGM outings , although her range is clearly limited .
Enjoyable programmer with the Mauch twins in the spotlight . . .	Let's face it , the late ' 30s were different times and the kids then were on the clean-cut side with polite manners and none of them had the agenda that today's teen-agers do - - so , in this respect , PENROD'S DOUBLE TROUBLE is a dated piece from Warner Bros . aimed at the kiddie market in 1938 . It succeeds in being a harmless time passer , nothing more - - with nothing really new in its story about two boys who are so identical in appearance that even the boy's parents can't tell the difference when one of them trades places . It's typical Hollywood fluff , performed in earnest style by GENE LOCKHART , DICK PURCELL and others in the Warner stock company . Billy and Bobby Mauch are excellent , as always , playing their respective roles with professional ease and modesty . Too bad the screenplay is such a modest effort and didn't give them more substantial material to work with . Summing up : A pleasant programmer , holds the interest for its brief running time .
Edward G . Robinson excels in slapstick comedy about inept thieves . . .	EDWARD G . ROBINSON spoofs his own image as a tough guy crook in LARCENY , INC . in which he's the leader of a bunch of inept crooks who open a luggage shop because it's next door to a bank with a vault they want to rob . Never mind that it means digging a tunnel . . . Robinson has dumb cluck BRODERICK CRAWFORD doing that and ED BROPHY acting as a front for the luggage shop . On top of that , pert JANE WYMAN is Eddie's girlfriend who really wants him to go straight and JACK Carson is a luggage salesman who hasn't got the foggiest idea that the store is really not in the luggage business . It's sappy but relieved by some good performances from a dependable Warner stock company that includes a lot of their best contract players , even JACKIE GLEASON in a minor role and good old HARRY DAVENPORT . It's the kind of film you'll see once and forget immediately after , but fun while it lasts . JOHN QUALEN as a banker , FORTUNIO BONANOVA as a barber and BARBARA JO ALLEN ( A / K / A VERA VAGUE of radio fame and voice-overs for Disney ) are a few that stand out in the supporting cast . Summing up : Lightweight stuff , but good for a few laughs .
Angela Lansbury narrates documentary on Disney's live action films . . .	During World War II , the Disney studio had just had some great success with feature-length cartoons but the war effort changed Disney's strategy for awhile . He started combining live action with the animated cartoons and produced films for the war effort like VICTORY THROUGH AIR POWER and cemented our South American relations with SALUDOS AMIGOS and THE THREE CABALLEROS . By the ' 50s , with the European market closed , he had money in England that he decided to free by filming some live action features in Great Britain with a mostly British cast . He began with TREASURE ISLAND , which was a great success , and then THE STORY OF ROBIN HOOD , THE SWORD AND THE ROSE and 20 , 000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA . Meanwhile , he was also doing his TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES , beginning with SEAL ISLAND which won an Oscar , the first of many such nature studies . Then , in order to defray costs for his Disneyland theme park , he decided to take advantage of TV by using it for promoting his films . The studio also began all the merchandising tactics that brought in more money and continued to produce popular live action films like DAVY CROCKETT , OLD YELLER , THE SHAGGY DOG and SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON . Angela Lansbury does the narration and various Disney players give their insight into working for Disney , including people like GLYNIS JOHNS , DEAN JONES , DICK VAN DYKE , KAREN DOLTRICE and KURT RUSSELL . All of them appreciated working for the man whom they considered a genius and , as someone aptly remarked , " The single greatest visionary . " Clips from some of the later successes include Lansbury's turn as a witch in BEDKNOBS AND BROOMSTICKS , before she played Mrs . Potts in Disney's BEAUTY AND THE BEAST . Summing up : Delightful and informative .
Robert Donat shines in nice biography of inventor William Friese-Greene . . .	For all of his dogged determination to succeed , William Friese-Greene never quite established himself firmly in the public's mind as the inventor of the first motion picture camera , THE MAGIC BOX . That honor seems to rest with Thomas Edison . But as the film goes on to suggest , it was " Willie " who developed the first camera similar to what motion picture cameras use today . The film gives credit to Edison and other inventors with Greene as " one of the first pioneers . " The story is told slowly , with flashbacks , and captures the time and customs of a bygone era with careful attention to detail . And for added interest , almost every small role is played by one of Britain's most famous actors . Keep an eye out for Margaret Rutherford , Kay Walsh , Joan Hickson , Laurence Olivier , Leo Genn , Eric Portman , Richard Attenborough , Glynis Johns , and others . Maria Schell , as one of the inventor's wives , wears a perpetual smile or grin on her face which always irritates me - - let's face it , she's never been one of my favorite actresses and unfortunately she's in a good many of the scenes . I wish another actress had been cast in the role of his understanding first wife . It's an interesting story , well told and extremely well acted by most of the cast with Margaret Rutherford standing out as one of the photographer's best customers and Laurence Olivier doing a fine job as the policeman called hurriedly to Donat's laboratory to witness motion pictures taken in Hyde Park and staring at the screen in amazement . Donat's illness shows in many of the early scenes where he's supposed to be a young man , so that he looks more natural in the age make-up sequences as an older chap . The age make-up makes him resemble Mr . Chips again . I thought the ending was overly sentimental and not the way I would have preferred the story to conclude . Well worth viewing .
POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEADGood Victorian melodrama from the gaslight era . . .	JEAN SIMMONS plays a housemaid who takes advantage of the fact that she knows the truth about STEWART GRANGER's wife - - and the fact that he murdered her , then pretended to be the grieving husband . She uses this knowledge to blackmail him into making her head of the household staff - - and the schemes continue , by both of them , with the cat-and-mouse game leading up to a satisfying ending . Both Simmons and Granger are at their best , completely in charge of their roles and well cast as the conniving leads . And yet , something is missing . Instead of building suspense , under Arthur Lubin's limp direction , the film wanders slowly toward the conclusion , a few surprises along the way and the main thrust of suspense being the question it poses : how is he going to get rid of Simmons when her hold over him becomes even stronger after a second murder committed by him on a foggy night , presuming the woman was Simmons . While the fascination lies in the handsome production values and the performances of the two leads , the film itself lacks the impact a melodrama of this sort should have by the time we reach the diabolical ending . A tighter script and stronger direction would have helped . BILL TRAVERS is completely wasted in a supporting role .
Clever Christie story is given top-notch treatment . . .	A MURDER IS ANNOUNCED in the Chipping Cleghorne Gazette at the very start of this clever Christie tale about an announcement in the local paper that sends several people to Little Paddocks cottage , just curious observers who wonder if anything actually will happen as predicted ominously in the quaint cottage shared by Letitia Blacklock ( URSULA HOWELLS ) and her old friend Dora Bunner ( RENEE ASHERSON ) . Indeed , when the lights go out that evening , a man enters and a gunshot sound alarms the gathering , only to find that the intruder himself is the murder victim and Miss Blacklock has a flesh wound which makes her look like the intended victim . The storyline soon involves a bunch of others and it becomes clear that nothing is really what it seems as to the identities of several people and the purpose of the murder scene . This is one of the most enjoyable of all the Agatha Christie books that I read years ago at a time when I was going through a number of her books , as a mystery fan . I always found this particular story one of special interest , and could easily have pictured Olivia de Havilland as Letitia Blacklock ( what a name ! ! ) , the kind of role that would have been perfect for her at a time when she was playing more difficult roles . However , the casting here is highly satisfactory with most of the British cast doing well in their parts - - notably SAMANTHA BOND , SIMON SHEPHERD and SYLVIA SYMS . This was later remade for the series starring GERALDINE McEWAN , all of which are less well regarded than the series here with JOAN HICKSON as Miss Marple . Hickson has a pensive , inquisitive look that makes us believe she is slowly coming to realize the truth , while McEwan is only able to suggest a sweet little old lady with a sly look , but never intelligent enough to unravel the mystery .
Thin romantic comedy is fluffy material , but fun . . .	TCM's star tribute to JEAN ARTHUR included a few of her early films , some of which are on the weak side , as is IF YOU COULD ONLY COOK . With a brief running time of an hour and ten minutes , it might have been ideal for the bottom half of a double feature back in the ' 30s , yet it opened as an A-film at New York's Roxy theater . But what can I tell you ? Not every film TCM shows is really what we call a " classic " . HERBERT MARSHALL is Jean's husband , who poses with Jean , as a servant in the home of a mobster . Marshall is a bored designer for an automobile manufacturer mistaken for being unemployed by Arthur who's job hunting and sees an ad for a husband and wife team . She talks Marshall into joining forces so they can find work . Marshall , who says he's " fishing for something better to do with his life " proves to be quite adept at light comedy rather than the heavier material usually associated with him . His scenes with Arthur have every bit as much sparkle as those she did with stars like William Powell or Cary Grant . Both stars are warm and appealing in roles that could have been written expressly for them . LIONEL STANDER and LEO CARILLO are amusing in supporting roles as the mobsters who hire the housekeeping team , with Stander suspicious of both of them from the start . JEAN ARTHUR , as the girl who has faith in Marshall's auto designs , was never one of my favorites but she's on good display here and HERBERT MARSHALL is much less stiff than usual . Basically a romantic comedy , it turns screwball for the frantic ending . Fans of the stars should find it an enjoyable romp that passes the time pleasantly . Summing up : Strictly fluff .
All the dialog sounds like Raymond Chandler clichés . . .	Every time HUMPHREY BOGART opens his mouth to say anything , it sounds like deja vu all over again . His role as a tough-talking ex-GI looking for his buddy's murderer and moving among a bunch of unsavory characters is the kind of material Raymond Chandler could have written with his eyes shut . The stock heroine is played with sultry charm by LIZABETH SCOTT , who seems to be subbing for Lauren Bacall throughout the murky proceedings . She even sings a torchy night club number in the same style as Bacall , but is not quite as alluring - - nor does her chemistry with Bogart seem as strong . Bogart's string of one-liners make him sound like Philip Marlowe , detective , rather than a man on the hunt for a killer who gets drugged by the gambling joint owner and when he wakes up , discovers a corpse in his apartment . The corpse is a bartender who knew too much about the murder of Bogart's buddy . It's a typical Bogart movie of the ' 40s , film noir material that's well handled by director John Cromwell . While it doesn't have the impact of the high quality noirs like THE MALTESE FALCON , it will keep you guessing until the smart finish . Bogart gets all the nifty lines . " If you're looking for Easter bunnies , you're a day early . " He delivers a solid performance that makes much use of voice-over narrative . Scott is okay , but she's had better roles in other films of the forties . Worth watching , especially if you like faux Chandler-type material . There's an Astor / Bogart quality to the final confrontation between Bogart and Scott . He even has the line that sounds like it's lifted from THE MALTESE FALCON : " When a guy's buddy dies , a man's gotta do something about it . "
Lots of fury and lots of Technicolor in early film noir . . .	Probably the most distinguished feature of DESERT FURY is the spectacular Technicolor Paramount lavished on it , a story of personal conflicts among Nevada's gambling set . Another distinguished feature is MARY ASTOR as Fritzi , a hard-boiled dame who runs a gambling establishment and keeps a tight leash on her willful daughter ( LIZABETH SCOTT ) . Scott is strikingly photographed and reminded me of a more animated version of Veronica Lake . But complications arise when two men pay too much attention to Astor's daughter - - JOHN HODIAK ( a no good hunk who may or may not have murdered his wife ) and BURT LANCASTER as a wary police officer who keeps Lizabeth Scott on his radar at all times . It's fun as melodrama , nothing more or less , and at times achieves something of a camp classic with Astor's butch performance as she effortlessly steals the film's acting honors . Take it or leave it , it's all in good , steamy fun with lots of fury going on under those hot Technicolor lights .
Robert Benchley in an amusing short everyone can relate to . . .	Anyone can easily relate to HOW TO SLEEP , especially if you've spent a sleepless night in a thousand different positions as illustrated by Benchley in this ' 35 short subject . In this good natured spoof , he starts out trying a hot bath but never gets beyond sticking his toe in the warm water before draining the water out and deciding to go back to bed . Similarly , when he decides to get a drink of warm milk , he ends up snacking on leftovers in the refrigerator , defeating his purpose . It goes on in this vein with water dripping from a faucet being the final annoyance that keeps him awake . Finally , he's just about to fall asleep when the alarm clock rings and it's a lost cause . As a fellow insomniac , I found it was most amusing when he demonstrated all the sleeping positions someone goes through when they toss and turn . Funny stuff with the usual dry commentary from Benchley .
Those good old days were innocent and different times . . .	Once again , MICKEY ROONEY is in all sorts of trouble and Judge Hardy is always there to get him out of it - - or at least talk things over with him . And this time , the accent is on his girl troubles . It's kind of amusing just to see the pretty ANN RUTHERFORD and a very young LANA TURNER throwing themselves at Rooney the way they do - - I mean , let's fact it , he was never a looker . Gone are the days when teens dressed like they do here - - Rooney wearing a derby on a bright summer day and not a pair of jeans in sight . The script has Ann Rutherford's Polly going away on a Christmas visit to an aunt , which gives Rooney an excuse to discover Lana Turner's Cynthia at a swimming pool . She serves as his playmate for this particular Hardy story and it's easy to see why MGM kept her under contract for years to come . JUDY GARLAND is Betsy Booth , who announces right at the start that she's " going to be on the stage some day " - - and was that a good prediction ! She also gets to sing a few numbers in the now famous Garland style . The plot ambles along predictably and pleasantly , as most Hardy films do , and suffice it to say that Rooney's fling with Lana Turner is the most enjoyable aspect of the story and well played by both youngsters . But boy , could he mug ! Yes , even then , he dispensed with some pretty extravagant bits of mugging that became more and more pronounced as the years went on . Some called it talent - - others may have disagreed . Whatever it was , he was a very popular box-office star at the time this one was made . Summing up : Pleasant enough for Hardy fans , and certainly a reminder of how different times were for teens in the late ' 30s .
At least Ralph Byrd is the right Dick Tracy . . .	RALPH BYRD takes over the Dick Tracy role with good results , looking more like the square-jawed comic book hero than Morgan Conway . He's on the trail of " The Claw " ( played very effectively by JACK LAMBERT ) and the film is chock full of many noir-like scenes involving " The Claw " and his pursuit of victims , who seems to enjoy using his hook to kill a few unlucky men . IAN KEITH is back as Vitamin Flintheart , once again upstaging everyone with his theatrical flair for speeches and having a little more to do with the plot and KAY CHRISTOPHER fills in for Anne Jeffreys as Tess Trueheart . But , in truth , Byrd is given little opportunity to show how well he was cast in the part since most of the crime drama involves the intriguing villain with the hook for a hand who drags his foot and walks the shadowy streets on his hunt for the kill . Summing up : Good little crime drama about fur thieves proves that low-budget thrillers like this from RKO could be rewarding enough for noir fans .
Unknown film noir has Carter spinning a web to trap Ford . . .	The moment JANIS CARTER pays GLENN FORD's fine for driving recklessly you know the two are going to meet their fate together in FRAMED . At this point in his career , Ford seemed to be specializing in playing men hooked by a dame at first glance and willing to suffer the consequences . FRAMED is a neat little crime melodrama from Columbia in which the title almost gives away the plot . Carter and BARRY SULLIVAN devise a crooked scheme to get their hands on a quarter of a million dollars , involving GLENN FORD and a bank robbery . JANIS CARTER resembles a blonde version of Ann Sheridan as she plays a cunning femme fatale with silky ease planning to make mining engineer Ford take the fall for an embezzlement . Like all good noirs , there's a final plot twist that comes as a surprise and confirms suspicion that Carter was even more of a schemer than she let on . Well worth seeing - - maintains taut suspense all the way . And , of course , Ford's moral fiber wins out over Carter's amoral seduction .
Gritty low-budget film noir about teens and drugs . . .	A jazz score accompanies the soundtrack of this gritty story about three teens who get involved with drugs ( heroin supply ) and then try to make a deal with a druggie who can turn over some cash for whatever amount they come up with . Meanwhile , some drug dealers are also after the drugs and will stop at nothing to find out where the teens have stashed the goods . The no name cast is headed by YALE WEXLER as the more sensitive one who decides the drug heist should be handed over to the cops - - but by the time he makes this decision it's too late and the dealers have already trapped his friends and beat them up . He manages to elude them when they pursue him on a climactic chase that forms the climax of the story . Interesting , gritty and worthwhile if you're a film noir buff , but nothing extraordinary . The only reason I watched it was because I had seen the screen test of YALE WEXLER for the role of " Ben-Hur " in 1959 and wondered if he ever pursued an acting career after losing that role . Evidently , he did . He gives a convincing performance here and so does the rest of the cast .
Groucho talks , sings , and smokes his cigar while Cavett listens . . .	Enjoyable talk show moments from the late ' 60s with GROUCHO MARX doing his thing while reminiscing about his films , some of the people he worked with or knew during his movie days , including IRVING THALBERG , MARGARET DUMONT , CHICO MARX and GRETA GARBO . DICK CAVETT sits back and lets Groucho take the show in any direction he wants , which includes three of his favorite songs : " Lydia , the Tattooed Lady " , " Father's Day " and " Everybody Works But Father . " Groucho recalls that Irving Thalberg was such a difficult man to get to see ( even when one had an appointment , since Thalberg was usually working on four films at a time ) , that he and his brothers had to play a practical joke on Thalberg to get his attention . From then on , Thalberg never kept them waiting . He also tells an amusing anecdote about GRETA GARBO ( their encounter in an elevator ) , and talks about how MARGARET DUMONT was able to be a straight woman for all his jokes because she never understood what they were all about . The audience gets its share of laughs - - not canned laughter , believe me - - and every time they guffaw at one of Grouch's one-liners , Cavett just sits back and enjoys the spectacle of watching Groucho at work . Lots of fun .
Sentimental yarn traces the life of a country doctor . . .	Dalton Trumbo wrote the screenplay for this sentimental tale of an unselfish country doctor who cared for rich and poor alike . EDWARD ELLIS is Dr . John Abbott and little DICKIE JONES is his son . Jones was the little boy who supplied the voice for Disney's PINOCCHIO . When an orphan girl is left on Ellis ' doorstep , the orphan girl grows up to be ANNE SHIRLEY and LEE BOWMAN is the grown-up Dickie Jones . It's a leisurely tale that moves slowly without the usual melodramatics one might expect in a story of a country doctor - - with the only dramatic touch coming well past the midway point with a possible epidemic of infantile paralysis causing the doctor to advise the townspeople to cancel the upcoming country fair . His theory meets with resistance until the feared outbreak occurs and then the townspeople can't thank him enough for all his work . There's a Frank Capra feel to this kind of story , but director Garson Kanin keeps it pretty well in command and prevents the sentimentality from becoming too thick . Summing up : Good , but not quite the inspiring yarn it was intended to be thanks to below level production values and rather routine performances .
A lovable ogre and his donkey friend steal the show . . .	SHREK is probably more fun for adults than children , especially if you can recognize all the twisted elements derived from a whole flock of Disney films or Grimm's Fairy Tales . The humor is clever , although sometimes crude , and the animation has a 3D look with some very clever special effects , especially for the scene of the fire-breathing dragon chasing Shrek , the donkey and the princess across a rickety bridge over a pit of lava . The spirit of fun is more evident than ever in the Robin Hood sequence with the Merry Men bursting into song and dance . Of course , all the voices are expertly done by people like MIKE MEYERS , JOHN LITHGOW , CAMERON DIAZ and EDDIE MURPHY , none of them sounding conspicuously like their real-life selves except for Murphy . Personally , I still prefer hand drawn animation over all this computer generated stuff , so I'm not the most unbiased person to review this sort of animated film . Summing up : Funny with an odd sort of charm but terribly overrated by today's generation of moviegoers .
Nice drama of early aviation pioneers . . .	Sturdy , dependable GLENN FORD gives another one of his understated but sincere performances as a young inventor , John Montgomery , in the late 1800s who makes a number of semi-successful attempts at getting his flying machine off the ground and soaring into the atmosphere . JANET BLAIR is the love interest as the childhood sweetheart who stands by her man until the end of his life . While I always liked this actress , the jarring note is her make-up which is so modern that it seems like an anachronism . She has a distinctly 1940s look about her ( lip gloss and modern hairdos ) that works against the otherwise authentic look of the film . WILLARD ROBERTSON as Ford's pa is fine but SELENA ROYLE is completely wasted in a minor role as his loving mom . William Wellman directs with a thorough knowledge of his subject and as an aviation drama it maintains interest throughout . All of the aerial scenes are well staged and look glorious in crisp B & W photography . Summing up : A very unheralded film that is certainly watchable but could have used a stronger and less sentimental script .
Susan Lucci comments on " Annie Get Your Gun " . . .	On the VHS tape of ANNIE GET YOUR GUN , this was a nice introduction by SUSAN LUCCI to the MGM film starring Betty Hutton and Howard Keel . Susan gives a little background first , on the show's title character Annie Oakley and her famous tours with Buffalo Bill and Frank Butler . Then she talks about the stage version that was a huge success with Ethel Merman on Broadway . Finally , she gets to the troubled beginnings of the MGM version which was to star JUDY GARLAND and HOWARD KEEL . All sorts of production problems cropped up unexpectedly . FRANK MORGAN ( Buffalo Bill ) died after completing a couple of scenes and had to be replaced by LOUIS CALHERN . Then Howard Keel broke his leg and had to spend time in a cast while it healed and scenes were shot around him . Then Judy Garland began behaving temperamentally , obviously not feeling well enough to perform . Two of her numbers are shown , " Doin ' What Comes Naturally " and " I'm an Indian Too " . Both are dismal . In both numbers , she appears gaunt and slightly unfocused . Nor is the choreography for the Indian number anything like the one that Betty Hutton ended up doing . Susan Lucci had earlier commented that this Indian number was cut from the revival of the Broadway show in the ' 90s because it was considered " politically incorrect " . It turned out to be one of Hutton's peak moments in the film , demonstrating her comic talent . At any rate , Judy's performance on both numbers is lacking in spirit , although her voice sounds strong enough . She seems to be just going through the paces and looks thoroughly worn out . Shortly afterwards , she was fired and replaced by Hutton . Then , after both clips are shown , Susan introduces the MGM film starring Hutton and Keel . An interesting way to begin the movie , informative and entertaining .
Interesting look at some Nostradamus predictions . . .	Like so many other things I can think of , it's all open to loose interpretation - - but at least this educational short on Nostradamus and his predictions gives us some food for thought . Carey Wilson , who narrates , asks finally , " Was he charlatan or dreamer ? " The brisk short documentary tells us that Nostradamus , born in 1503 , studied astronomy , among other subjects , and developed an insight into the world ahead which led to his many writings which were written in cryptic medieval French and are certainly thought provoking when parallels can be drawn between his writings and events that took place centuries later . Subjects broached include Hitler , the British Empire ( a ruler who would renounce his throne , a woman , Queen Elizabeth , who would rule ) , the Atom bomb , the United Nations ( he called it a Temple of Flags ) and the revolutions in Russia . When it was over , the only wish I had was that it was more detailed with time for so much more of his many predictions .
Edgy characters make interesting background for murder . . .	NATHANIEL PARKER and SHARON SMALL are not exactly a plausible pair as detectives , but the script makes use of their odd personality quirks and provides a few moments of genuine humor . The plot concerns the death of a young cricket player and the assorted characters who had something to do with his rather unhappy past . The performances are all first rate , especially NEVE McINTOSH as Olivia , a young woman who holds the secret to what really happened when the man was murdered . NATHANIEL PARKER lends his strong presence to the role of Inspector Lynley and is believable as a man determined to get to the bottom of a messy murder . All the red herrings are nicely planted . Well done in good British style .
Nostalgic and sentimental trip down memory lane . . .	This is the kind of Hollywoodized biography of a famous composer that springs to life whenever DORIS DAY sings one of those warm and tender melodies . It's Day , at her perkiest , who makes the film rather than DANNY THOMAS , who simply lacked the screen charisma a leading man should have . He's not bad , but brings the film down a notch with his one-dimensional performance . Thankfully , there are some reliable supporting role players that help Doris sell the film - - notably , PATRICE WYMORE , FRANK LOVEJOY and MARY WICKES who all do their best to keep the tale moving along at a brisk pace . Wickes is especially mirthful when she tosses off a one-liner with aplomb and clearly seems to be enjoying her role as a sharp-tongued maid . The Michael Curtiz touch is not too evident because the story drags in spots , but whenever Doris gets to warble an old-fashioned tune it doesn't matter what else is going on . Her rendition of " The One I Love Belongs to Somebody Else " is especially touching and her spirited version of " Makin ' Whoopie " is another delight . Whether tossing off a ballad or jump tune she can do no wrong . Doris Day fans will enjoy this tuneful and sentimental trip down memory lane .
Shadow of " Best Years " hangs over this Goldwyn film . . .	While THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES dealt with the readjustment of three servicemen returning from the horrors of WWII , I WANT YOU is a more sentimental look at the home front following the return of those men to peacetime U . S . A . Peacetime , yes , until the draft meant the calling up of enlisted men again because of The Korean War , a war largely forgotten by today's generation . The script in no way compares to that of BEST YEARS , but there are decent performances that hold the story on track . DANA ANDREWS and DOROTHY McGUIRE are the most impressive , with some good acting by FARLEY GRANGER and MILDRED DUNNOCK helping to keep the story afloat . But somehow , one never gets the feeling of urgency or involvement that is felt during the Oscar-winning Goldwyn film that preceded it . A distinct weakness of the film is PEGGY DOW as Granger's sweetheart , a limited actress who lacks the warmth to make her part meaningful enough . Summing up : Pales by comparison to Goldwyn's other masterpiece , but is competent enough on its own terms to merit watching . And DANA ANDREWS delivers his usual solid performance .
Sexual ambiguities in clever , sophisticated dark comedy . . .	Handsome young MICHAEL YORK is a drifting social climber who takes advantage of an impoverished Countess ( ANGELA LANSBURY ) and her underwhelming family - - a plain daughter and a homosexual son - - using them for his own twisted needs to become the Prince Charming of a Bavarian castle . Directed with finesse by Harold Prince , it's a dark comedy that abounds with wit and a never ending series of complications that ensue when York manipulates and charms his way into everyone's affections . It has a TALENTED MR . RIPLEY kind of feel to it , but decidedly more comic than serious . ANGELA LANSBURY did not even mention this film during a one hour session with Robert Osborne on TCM recently , but it has to be among her best work . It raised eyebrows but failed to connect with whomever the target audience was back in the ' 70s and became a favorite among the art house crowd for obvious reasons . Rampant with sexual implications , it's way ahead of its time and would probably do better box-office business in today's more accepting world of oddball themes .
Investigating the death of Emily Proctor . . .	In this well-written , fast-moving British series , NATHANIEL PARKER and SHARON SMALL ( as Inspector Lynley and Sgt . Havers ) investigate the mysterious death of a young woman . As in all of these crime stories , their investigation is full of lots of red herrings ( a la Agatha Christie ) , wherein there are a substantial number of suspects , a few of whom seem to be slightly unhinged . The plot ingredients include an abusive step-father , a mistreated woman protecting her innocent sister , a man whose sweetheart was killed just before their wedding and who is suspected of having a hand in this latest death , and a woman seeking revenge on any woman who wants to marry the man she admires . It's all done very effectively with clue after clue being examined skillfully by the probing Inspector Lynley , played with the right mixture of sensitivity and determination by Nathaniel Parker . Enjoyable episode is well worth watching with good insight into human character traits .
Lowe and Sothern team again for a mystery / suspense film about an arsonist . . .	ANN SOTHERN and EDMUND LOWE were teamed earlier in a romantic comedy , but this time it's a suspenseful little programmer about tracking down an arsonist . It's a clever story with some brisk dialog that keeps things going merrily along while the chase for the arsonist consumes most of the plot . Lowe is a former tracker of arson fires who is re-hired when a series of fires puts the city out of control in trying to curb the serial man determined to burn down various factories . Lowe suspects it might be ONSLOW STEVENS , while Stevens in turn suspects Lowe of setting the fires in order to get his old job back . Then too , suspicion is firmly planted on ANN SOTHERN when she turns up at every fire and turns out to have an assumed name in order to cover a very valuable clue . It's dated , of course , but fun to watch with a puzzling mystery at the center of things . Lowe and Sothern work well together and Stevens does well in an interesting supporting role .
Humorous look at wildlife among California redwoods . . .	This Pete Smith Specialty focuses on humor as it follows the adventures of a black crow attempting to help himself to various bird eggs , invades chicken coops , and has various mishaps during a search for food . The short ends with the crow getting his comeuppance from other predators - - namely a fox and a bear who want to reach his own nest to get the eggs he and his mate are hovering over . The narration is full of tongue-in-cheek remarks , always ending with " ah , the poetry of nature " after some misdeed . It's a short that cries for Technicolor rather than B & W to show the beauty of the forest .
Sondheim and Perkins wrote a modern Agatha Christie yarn . . .	Any fan of Agatha Christie will recognize her format in the plot outline of THE LAST OF SHIELAH . Have some old codger ( JAMES COBURN ) invited five disparate personalities aboard his yacht for a game of " Clue " ( although he doesn't tell them that ) , let the bold accusations and one-liners go back and forth between these sophisticated show biz people , have one of them murdered , get a room full of suspects for the final quiz - - and voila , you have THE LAST OF SHIELAH , with most of the loose ends neatly tied up - - almost . But for some , there will still be some head scratching going on when the finale comes and it's not a bad idea to view this one again . And why not ? It's so full of sarcastic or bitchy lines ( most of them , courtesy of DYAN CANNON who plays the boldest dame ) , with others getting a fair share of some ripe digs too - - RICHARD BENJAMIN , JOAN HACKETT , RAQUEL WELCH , IAN McSHANE and JAMES MASON . It's one of those contrived mystery who-dun-its that keeps you guessing until the end , but the puzzle is fun while it lasts . Summing up : Smart , funny , stylish entertainment .
Early version of the famous stage play has lots of creepy atmosphere . . .	Any " old dark house " story should have lots of creepy atmosphere and THE CAT AND THE CANARY is no exception . I grew up on the Bob Hope / Paulette Goddard version made in ' 39 which had all the familiar ingredients we expect in this horror genre , as well as a comedy suited to the talents of Hope and Goddard . And , of course , to make it even more credible , it had Gale Sondergaard as the sinister housekeeper and George Zucco as Mr . Crosby , the lawyer . Unfortunately , like the stage play , it never did have a plausible or really satisfactory solution to the mystery . That weakness is also evident here in the silent version . LAURA LA PLANTE is the distant cousin Annabelle West about to inherit a fortune if she can spend one night in the mansion after the reading of the will by lawyer TULLY MARSHALL , and CREIGHTON HALE ( with the spectacles looking a bit like Harold Lloyd ) is Paul , the role that Bob Hope played in the later version , a bumbling man in love with the heroine . TCM is showing the silent version with a busy Theramin background score and sepia-tone photography in a restored Photoplay version . The main drawback is that none of the characters are fleshed out and the murderer's character is never fully established at all . But the photography is amazing considering when the film was made and altogether it makes for a pleasurable viewing experience . Highly recommend that anyone who likes this sort of thing ought to check out the Hope / Goddard version to see how the sound version compares to the original . Both versions opt for comedy over horror .
A film children and adults can enjoy on certain levels . . .	The talented RUSS TAMBLYN does a superb job of singing , dancing and acting while playing the title role of the miniature boy presented as a gift to a woodsman and his wife by a woodland spirit . They treat him as their own son and the film revolves around his misadventures after his parents are wrongly accused of a crime and he must find the real culprits ( TERRY-THOMAS and PETER SELLERS ) in time for a happy ending . The trick photography is marvelous , the toys that come to life are inventive and fun , the interaction between Tom and all the other townspeople is well done - - and this was all before the CGI effects we have today . There's a lot of charm to several musical numbers , especially one called " Yawning Man , " and all of the song-and-dance numbers are done in rollicking style . Songstress Peggy Lee wrote several clever songs . Well worth watching , a family film that can be enjoyed by adults or children . Tamblyn's talents are given full reign in this one .
Ill-fated love affair gives Natalie a chance to shine . . .	Not the best of Tennessee Williams ( actually a short play that has been turned into a full-sized screenplay ) , THIS PROPERTY IS CONDEMNED has NATALIE WOOD as Alva , a girl from the wrong side of the tracks whose brief love affair with a traveling railroad man ( ROBERT REDFORD ) ends tragically . Wood and Redford carry much of the film , but their performances are quite theatrical and work against the realistically tawdry hotel backgrounds of a sleazy Southern town . Still , they're impressive enough to overlook the flaws , but it's the atmosphere of the story that grabs you from the beginning and holds interest throughout . It's typical Williams , perhaps in a minor key , and Natalie's Alva does bear some relation to his most famous creation , Blanche duBois , who also sought escape in New Orleans . Natalie is glowingly gorgeous for all of her close-ups and does manage to give her character dimension despite some highly theatrical moments . Redford is a good match for her , and both were still at the height of their physical prime . The rather downbeat characters surrounding them and the dismal looking atmosphere may have prevented the film from having a large following , but it's got some striking moments for Wood and Redford that make it all worthwhile .
Handsome house of horrors ruled by special effects . . .	Whereas in the original B & W version of THE HAUNTING directed by Robert Wise , too much of the material was understated and made it seem as though nothing ever really happened , here we have the opposite - - too much is seen and shown and not enough left to the imagination . But the production itself is a handsome one , including a house to die for and some rather startling special effects that become a bit tiresome after awhile . And the cast is an impressive one - - LIAM NEESON as the doctor in charge of a dangerous experiment , CATHERINE ZETA-JONES , LILI TAYLOR , BRUCE DERN and MARIAN SELDES . After a slow start introducing the characters , it gradually builds suspense - - but the effect is not startling enough even with all the special effects that were missing in the original . Some things are better left to the imagination ( as , for example , Val Lewton demonstrated in THE CAT PEOPLE ) . Horror fans seemed to prefer the original - - or perhaps audiences just rejected all the emphasis on special effects rather than leaving things shadowy and undefined , which sometimes increases the horror . At any rate , a disappointing film .
Shades of " The Philadelphia Story " . . .	KATHARINE HEPBURN is a non-conformist in a family of stuffy socialites . Sound familiar ? Once again she's a free spirit nobody can tame . CARY GRANT is a man who just can't seem to settle down or find his way in the world . A third person ( Kate's snobbish sister ) wants him if he conforms to her idea of marriage under the domineering thumb of her wealthy dad . It all plays rather well and moves at a nice pace , but if you've seen other Hepburn flicks ( like THE PHILADELPHIA STORY ) , the outcome is predictable . Hepburn is fine in the quieter moments , showing sensitivity and grace , but in her big moments she becomes the actressy and overmannered actress of stage gestures . Grant is right at home as the nonchalant Johnny Case who wants to see more of life before settling down and letting himself be ruled by a family of stuffy socialites . The nice surprise in the whole mix is LEW AYRES as the brother who finds relief in the bottle and appears to be tipsy in just about every scene , giving a lighthearted imitation of a man under the influence . It's typical Philip Barry fluff and a little too much like the other play he wrote for Hepburn about socialites planning a wedding . If you're a Hepburn fan you'll like this . She looks radiant and appears to be having a fine time as the rebellious daughter . Nice supporting roles for Edward Everett Horton and Binnie Barnes . But it left me with a take it or leave it attitude toward it all . Maybe familiarity breeds contempt .
Gimmicky film best appreciated by old-time film buffs . . .	The only trouble with DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID is that Carl Reiner's script is so convoluted that you stop paying attention to the storyline after awhile and get hooked on waiting for the next film clip to pair STEVE MARTIN with a classic star . He plays detective Rigby Rearden who gets mixed up with a femme fatale ( RACHEL WARD ) from the Lauren Bacall school of femmes . She shows up at his apartment needing help and from then on it's a matter of following a Raymond Chandler type of detective story . Martin's scenes with stars like ALAN LADD , BETTE DAVIS , HUMPHREY BOGART , AVA GARDNER , etc . , are seamlessly matched with his newly written material thanks to the clever cinematography , costuming and sets that are made to order for just such a gimmick to work . Plenty of over the shoulder shots match him perfectly with whomever he's speaking to so that the illusion is near perfect . Most of the time it works pretty well and all of the guest appearances are welcome enough , but there are times when the silliness is almost over the top and attention is drawn away from the story itself . Still , a very original attempt at something different . Summing up : Well done , but more likely to appeal to film buffs familiar with the old clips rather than anyone who has only a casual acquaintance with the film noir of the ' 40s .
Charmingly irrelevant film about a mountain and a molehill . . .	Despite the fact that it's about almost nothing relevant to the average movie-goer , THE ENGLISHMAN WHO WENT UP A HILL BUT CAME DOWN A MOUNTAIN manages to be a charming diversion but ultimately , it's as innocuous as its title . Drawbacks aside , it does offer some hauntingly beautiful color cinematography of Welsh landscapes , day and night , blazing with beauty , some quaint village shots of pubs and lodgings that look invitingly cosy , and some sketchy characterizations that do little more than pad out a rather tedious little tale . HUGH GRANT does another one of his befuddled , amused , eyebrow lifting characterizations , complete with stutter and smile and pause between words , a role he seemed destined to repeat again and again . But he fits the role and the story - - which takes place in 1917 Wales . The jaunty musical score compensates for some slow moments but all the actors do a competent job of keeping things on a realistic level . There are no big names in the cast aside from Grant , but they all make their mark while he gets most of the footage for a rather awkward romance with a local girl who spends the night on the mountain with him . Summing up : Not much in the way of a plot , but it manages to be appealing and extremely well photographed .
A curiosity piece but not one of the silent greats . . .	This is proof positive that not every silent film is great or even worthy of restoration , however good the photography may be . Nor is the musical accompaniment always appropriate , as is the case here . GLORIA SWANSON and RUDOLPH VALENTINO may have been the hot twosome of the twenties , but here they hardly get a chance to do more than exchange intense glances while Swanson coyly looks away and flutters her overmade eyelashes and purses her bow-lipped mouth . Rudy is given not too much material to work with in the way of romantic lover , but he gets hero status from the fact that first he saves her from drowning , then rescues her when she falls off the rocks . Aside from her garish and non-flattering make-up , Miss Swanson does nothing to suggest why she was such a popular silent star except for the fact that she is paraded in a series of costumes that were clearly not designed by Adrian . Valentino , on the other hand , gets to look his handsome self and even dons one white outfit that flatters his swarthy good looks . Other than watching the two of them parade around in various outfits , there is nothing in this Harlequin romance that makes much sense . Her romance with a nobleman is given a conveniently happy ending when her husband nobly allows himself to be shot in the desert so that his young wife can spend the rest of her years with Valentino . Somewhere in this hopelessly old-fashioned , banal , slow moving romance there must be a message , but I'll be darned if I can find one - - except perhaps that when you're old , you should kill yourself if it will make your wife happy . As silent films go , the direction by Sam Wood is quite restrained for the time period and the photography is often artful when the film isn't having restoration problems . But this is by no means anything anyone should go out of their way to see . The story is trite , Swanson's acting is all a series of poses , and only Rudolf Valentino comes out of this smelling like a rose . At least he's natural and low-keyed and knows how to look at a woman - - which must disappoint female fans who wanted to see him and Swanson steaming up the desert with passion . Not .
Grim documentary style prison drama is gritty and realistic . . .	The story begins with a lost boy , a kidnapping , a ransom as extortionist RALPH MEEKER takes advantage of a situation which led to the death of the boy . The F . B . I . is soon on the case when the boy's father reports his disappearance . Meeker is sent to an island prison to serve a sentence as an extortionist who has $200 , 000 hidden somewhere . He's thrown in with some hardened criminal types - - CHARLES BRONSON , BRODERICK CRAWFORD , LON CHANEY , JR . - - labeled " the Iceman " because of his cool demeanor and icy gaze . Crawford has one of the film's best lines : " Well , the iceman cometh . " Since no prison drama would be complete without an escape plan being hatched , BIG HOUSE U . S . A . is no exception . The suspense lies mainly in the survival of Meeker who is known as the most hated man in prison because he harmed a boy . Crawford devises an escape plan that includes Meeker , " the goose that laid the golden egg " , so he can share the hidden loot with them . Of course , it's a crime doesn't pay melodrama , so in the end all their best laid plans go awry . Nice outdoor photography in Royal Gorge Park , Colorado , for the rugged scenes in the finale . Summing up : Well worth your time - - interesting and gritty .
Solid cast helps bolster this minor film noir . . .	A minor film nor from Allied Artists , this one has CORNEL WILDE out to rid the city of ruthless crime boss RICHARD CONTE , who puts some realistic toughness into a stock criminal role . Not so fortunate is JEAN WALLACE ( married to Wilde at the time ) who doesn't offer more than a pretty face and figure in what can only be called a poor performance as Conte's femme fatale girlfriend . BRIAN DONLEVY is not quite up to Conte's standard as a tough guy , but let's face it , his role is a lot less interesting as Conte's henchman who eventually tries to double-cross him . LEE VAN CLEEF and EARL HOLLIMAN play gangsters who work for Conte , sharing an apartment and some shifty glances which are supposed to make us believe they're not just roommates or partners in crime . It's a passable film noir , not exactly up to some of the gangster dramas that came out in the ' 40s with guys like Bogart , Mitchum and even Mark Stevens . It's on the second tier of such crime stories , partly because Conte offers the only really riveting performance and the gals in the cast are below par as performers . TED DeCORSIA does a nice job as man on the lam from Conte and his henchmen and JOHN HOYT does a dandy job as an antique store owner who knows too much . As for CORNEL WILDE , he's much better in swashbuckling roles than he is as a tough detective . Then again , with a better script and director , he may have been more appropriate for his detective role . Summing up : Good , tough crime drama but not among the best film noirs .
Brief examination of the prophecies of Nostradamus . . .	This is the sort of historical short subject they used to show school kids in the auditorium in the old days of yore . It's a well produced effort from MGM , narrated by Carey Wilson , to show the influence of Nostradamus on Catherine de Medici , the wife of Henry II , King of France , who hoped to have three sons as future kings : Francis II , Charles IX and Henry III in the 16th Century . The story opens with Catherine at 70 , reflecting on the prophecies about each one which , unfortunately , came true , as each one had a life which ended tragically premature . Nostradamus is nicely played by GRANDON RHODES and Catherine by MARIA PALMER , although her age make-up leaves something to be desired . Informative , brief and entertaining , it uses clips from other MGM historical dramas to give us a glimpse of the past events cited by Nostradamus . It also includes his vision of " the great protector " and " the famed torch " ( the United States ) , long before our country even existed . Summing up : Very interesting .
ICELAND attempts to duplicate the success of " Sun Valley Serenade " . . .	20th Century-Fox showed little imagination when they decided to team SONJA HENIE and JOHN PAYNE again after the huge success of SUN VALLEY SERENADE . Unfortunately , it doesn't work this time , despite the presence of some likable supporting players and Sammy Kaye and his Orchestra . The gave a wartime slant to the story by having John Payne as a stubborn marine in love with a flirtatious Norwegian skater ( Henie ) who sets her cap for him despite a series of misunderstandings and mishaps . Add a band like Sammy Kaye and his Orchestra , a couple of potential hit ballads ( " There Will Never Be Another You " and " I Love A Military Man " ) and a little comic relief ( Jack Oakie , Sterling Holloway ) and you have a formula for a successful Fox musical . Not so . Everything about the plot seems like nothing more than filler material to fill in between skating interludes . Henie smiles her dimpled smile and and goes through her part with her usual enthusiasm but this time the romance with John Payne is as weak as the silly storyline that has him duped into pretending they're married . The film's biggest compensations are the skating sequences and here the star is shown in pretty costumes during an extensive and rather extravagant routine in which she skates to various tempos of popular music - - but there are just too many dull stretches and limp comic moments between skating to bring the film up to SUN VALLEY SERENADE's standard . The supporting cast can't be blamed . Felix Brassert , Stanley Holloway ( uncredited ) and Jack Oakie are all up to the comedy relief their roles offer and do their best with some passable material . Nevertheless , the film was a huge money-maker for Fox due to the commercial success of Henie's previous hit - - but be warned . It's no " Sun Valley Serenade " . If you don't expect too much , perhaps Sonja's big skating number will be worth waiting for .
Despite serious flaws , grips the attention and won't let go . . .	URBANIA held my interest primarily because of the performance by DAN FUTTERMAN as the troubled gay man experiencing pain and heartbreak over a bad week-end in metropolis . He wanders around , seemingly in a daze most of the time , but eventually we understand that this is going to turn into a revenge story where he seeks out the man who humiliated him and his gay lover . Unfortunately , Futterman's character remains ambiguous throughout . At one moment , he's sympathetic and helps a beggar on the street - - and the next moment he's completely heartless in the way he treats a street pick-up gone wrong or a young couple he attaches himself to for the mere sport of abusing them with the truth about their being his upstairs neighbors who are not discreet in their lovemaking . He's such a complex person , but the script doesn't explain why he behaves as he does . At least the unpredictablility of the story is not a drawback - - in fact , it helps sustain interest since the viewer doesn't have a clue as to what will happen next . It's a nice build-up of suspense that keeps the drama edgy until the final shot . All the performances are beyond reproach , so it's not the actors who are to blame for whatever shortcomings the story has . But some scenes are awkwardly staged , others deeply impressive - - so it's an uneven mix of good and bad moments and sometimes guilty of style over substance . It won awards from some of the gay film societies but seems to have made not much of an impression at all on mainstream moviegoers with its homoerotic content , despite the fact that one of its characters mouths off some homophobic comments and gets his comeuppance in the end in what is basically a tale of revenge , gay style .
One of my favorite B-films from the ' 40s . . . nice cast . . .	Everything about KID GLOVE KILLER is extremely dated . And yet it's fun to watch VAN HEFLIN and MARSHA HUNT go about solving a crime using old techniques and spouting a lot of artificial dialog , 1940s style . Both of them also smoke frequently . " Match me , " becomes a standard line . A cast of standard MGM B-players keeps things going nicely as Heflin and Marsh investigate the murder of a politician , when all the time we know who the killer is - - LEE BOWMAN . Bowman is one of those actors who never quite made it to big time stardom , but he's completely at home here in the role of a ruthless heel . All of the suspense in a story of this kind lies in wondering how the killer will be caught - - since he's very manipulative and very cunning . His charm makes his criminal nature very deceptive to both Bowman and Hunt . Favorite line : " Just bury me with one of your swell hamburgers on my chest . " Reply : " With onions ? " If you watch carefully , you can spot BOBBY BLAKE as a youngster listening to a car radio and AVA GARDNER as a car-hop waitress . This one , and GRAND CENTRAL MURDER made the same year , are well worth watching and nicely directed by Fred Zinnemann who later went on to A-film assignments .
Predictable but enjoyable romantic comedy is warm and engaging . . .	CAROLE LOMBARD and FRED MacMURRAY have chemistry in this warm romantic comedy about two people who are actually yearning to marry into wealth , but find that love conquers all . RALPH BELLAMY as " the other man " makes it a certainty that Lombard will fall in love with MacMurray for the final reel , so there's no guessing as to how it all turns out . But Mitchell Leisen keeps the pace brisk for the running time of an hour and twenty minutes , the script that Norman Krasna and others penned is bright and funny , and everyone is seen to advantage . Lombard has probably seldom had such beguiling close-ups and she was a true , classic beauty with a flair for this brand of romantic comedy . MacMurray too has a deft touch with light material and is a good match for her as a playboy who'd rather fall in love with a rich woman but changes his mind when he meets Lombard . Director Leisen can be proud of his career , which included gems like this and serious dramas like " Hold Back the Dawn " and " To Each His Own . " He's probably one of Hollywood's most underrated directors and is in good form here . The supporting cast gets a lift from RUTH DONNELLY and WILLIAM DEMAREST . Summing up : Enjoyable nonsense , it's formula fluff given substance by a clever script and fine direction .
The Da Vinci Code in a minor key . . . more humor , more fun . . .	If your head is still spinning from all the murky codes being deciphered in THE DA VINCI CODE , you can sit back and relax with all the clues NICHOLAS CAGE has to unravel in order to go on his treasure hunt in NATIONAL TREASURE . He has lots of help from his dad ( JON VOIGT ) , a very savvy female assistant ( DIANE KRUGER ) , his mentor ( CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER ) , and his goofy but handsome side-kick ( JUSTIN BARTHA ) . The heist scenes involving a stolen Declaration of Indpendence are a highlight of the film , all filmed on actual locales in and around Washington , D . C . and Philadelphia , handsomely photographed . Cage gets some stiff resistance from HARVEY KEITEL as a no-nonsense FBI man , and some villainous competition from greedy SEAN BEAN and his henchmen , who want the treasure for monetary purposes only and will stop at nothing , even murder , to lay their greedy hands on it . It's all Saturday matinée stuff , the plot strictly a mixture of Indiana Jones and other cliffhanger stories where the hero has to pursue his quest while all sorts of obstacles are thrust in his way - - and then the final , climactic shoot-out and wild chase before he can walk off with the girl at the end of the movie . All the standard clichés are firmly in place , but it's still a lot of fun to watch NICHOLAS CAGE interact with a fun loving cast . SEAN BEAN lends some British dignity to his role as the charming villain , not quite as dark a villain as is usual in these sort of capers . There's a light touch throughout all the heist sequences and chases and explorations of the underground caverns holding the treasure , as well as some well staged moments of suspense with collapsing stairways and termite-ridden wooden structures making the search perilous . JUSTIN BARTHA contributes a lot of the lighter jibes as a computer wiz who is clearly having a good time and knows the whole thing is a lark as he works on his computer graphics . Nothing too original here , but it's purely an escapist adventure yarn .
Artistic triumph of Technicolor photography and realistic looking jungle settings . . .	Although THE JUNGLE BOOK seems to limp along at a slow pace , it catches the eye with its splendid Technicolor photography of lush forests , a brilliantly staged forest fire and the " Lost City " where hidden treasure drives men to greed and destruction . Close-ups of the jungle animals are beautifully shot and all of their scenes are well staged . As Mowgli , the boy raised by wolves , SABU has the fierce looks of a wolf-child , although he does learn to converse in English awfully soon , thanks to some choppy editing continuity . ROSEMARY DeCAMP is his mother , beaming at him with adoration and accepting the fact at the end that he must return to the forest kingdom where he rules rather than stay with man . Joseph CALLEIA is terrific as one of the greedy pursuers of gold , marking Sabu's trail so he can find " The Lost City . " JOHN QUALEN too is excellent in another supporting role . Miklos Rozsa's music is not given sufficient strength on the soundtrack , muffled behind all of the dialog and jungle sounds , so it doesn't get its due despite some good orchestrations . It sounds better on recorded excerpts from the film . A fantasy from my childhood that doesn't register as strongly as it did back then but still manages to hold the interest with its visually arresting sets created by Vincent Korda . TCM is showing a better Technicolor print of the film than was released in the Public Domain version years ago , which was nominated for four Oscars including one for its color cinematography .
Enjoyable Haines performance . . . film is more than just a curio . . .	WAY OUT WEST is a film designed to be a star vehicle for the controversial WILLIAM HAINES , who was during this time an outspoken gay member of the Hollywood community . He was a talented charmer , capable of natural performances rather than the standard overacting typical of many a silent screen star . While the film itself may not be a winner , it's entertaining enough to keep you watching until the happy ending . Haines plays a carnival worker whose crooked ways lead to his capture by a bunch of cowboy roughs who want him to work off his debt to them by doing chores as a farmhand . FRANCIS X . BUSHMAN is one of the guys , POLLY MORAN makes a winsome female , and CLIFF EDWARDS has an innocuous supporting role . It's strictly standard stuff but interesting to watch Haines at work , creating a character you can't help but like despite his sordid reputation ( in the film ) . Rumor has it that his being openly gay ruined his career in up tight Hollywood when morality clauses were enforced rather harshly . Summing up : Definitely worth a look .
Visually arresting . . . but quirky and bizarre tale of murky espionage . . .	Somewhere along the way , someone took scissors to this film and left it with plot holes that don't connect . Despite the obvious flaws in continuity and plotting , Eric Ambler's novel has been so changed in transferring it to the screen that he didn't even recognize it as his own story , according to Robert Osborne of TCM . The marquee value of Joseph Cotten and Orson Welles is likely to lure viewers into thinking they will see another classic along the lines of THE THIRD MAN . Not so . This is a visually interesting espionage yarn , very little of which is coherent and much of which leaves the viewer in as much confusion as Joseph Cotten's character is . Whom should he trust and who is really trying to kill him ? Cotten plays a U . S . Naval engineer aboard a dilapidated freighter who learns that Nazi agents are planning to kill him . The usual Welles Mercury Theater players fill the supporting roles , along with the beautiful Dolores Del Rio . Once the film leaves the claustrophobic freighter and shows Cotten running from his captors , it takes on heightened interest . The scenes in the torrential rain are wonderfully staged and the B & W cinematography gives the illusion of menace in every shadow . But there is virtually no coherent plot and Welles is completely wasted in a small role that he underplays . While the credits say that Norman Foster directed , it is highly probable that Welles himself directed much of it . Perhaps it all made more sense before the running time was cut down to 71 minutes . Ruth Warrick has a couple of nice moments as Cotten's patient wife but none of the characters are fleshed out enough to really understand or care about . Cotten gives his usual workmanlike performance but it all ends with a rather abrupt finish , much ado about nothing . Too many weaknesses to call a classic .
Angela Lansbury is the hostess for documentary written by Jack Haley , Jr . . . .	Everything you ever wanted to know about the making of THE WIZARD OF OZ , the original premiere , the Academy Awards dinner in February of 1940 ( at which GWTW was the big winner ) , the reception the film received when it opened at New York's Capitol theater with Garland and Rooney as the stage attraction - - it's all here , as well as a behind-the-scenes look at cast members discussing their participation in the MGM classic . A brief look too at all the film titles that made 1939 such a memorable year . ANGELA LANSBURY narrates the whole thing with her usual charm , taking us on a brief tour of the history of the Oz stories by Frank L . Baum and the casting decisions that had to be made regarding the film . RAY BOLGER and JACK HALEY talk about the difficulties of wearing the heavy make-up and costuming under bright Technicolor lights and their inability to eat in the studio commissary ; JUDY GARLAND is shown in a couple of TV clips exaggerating stories about Victor Fleming and The Munchkins while daughter LISA MINNELLI observes that her mother had a marvelous sense of humor but stretched the truth ; director MERVYN LeROY talks about working with directors Richard Thorpe and George Cukor before choosing VICTOR FLEMING to direct the opus ; and Garland and Rooney are shown being surrounded by mobs of photographers and fans at Grand Central Station when they arrived for their personal appearances at the Capitol theater in NYC and Judy and Mickey are both shown with Mayor LaGuardia at 1939's New York World's Fair in Flushing , Queens . Garland is also shown receiving her special Oscar for Best Juvenile performance that year at the Academy dinner . Filled throughout with scenes from the film illustrating various points , it's a fascinating glimpse into movie-making magic . Especially of BUDDY EBSEN's make-up for The Tin Man causing him to be hospitalized and replaced by JACK HALEY ; and MARGARET HAMILTON's account of suffering severe burns when her disappearing trick through fire and smoke went awry . She recalls how her agent told her they were interested in her for a role in the film and she was delighted . " Who do I play ? " she asked . " The Witch - - naturally . Who else ? " Actually , at first they visualized a beautiful witch and had GALE SONDERGAARD doing make-up tests as a lovely Wicked Witch of the West but this idea was scrapped and they even tried " ugly " make-up on her but nobody was happy with the result . Sondergaard never regretted it because she didn't want to appear ugly at that early stage of her career . There's even an illustration of how the special effects for the cyclone were handled . It's the kind of documentary you would want to have about the world's most famous children's classic - - as entertaining as it is informative .
Thin material but Holliday and Lemmon make an expert team . . .	If PHFFFT had been made in the ' 30s or ' 40s , it would have been done with Cary Grant and Jean Arthur as the couple ( or Cary and Irene Dunne ) . But by 1954 , JUDY HOLLIDAY and JACK LEMMON were paired once again ( they starred previously in IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU ) , and proved to be a great comic team with perfect timing and good chemistry . As it is , the story is a throwback to the ' 30s and the kind of screwball comedies Grant usually did . George Axelrod's script is about a couple who decide that their married life has become a bore and impulsively seek a divorce . They then settle down to the business of finding another mate and discover that the single life is not exactly a bed of roses . Lemmon is matched with KIM NOVAK ( a blind date arranged by JACK Carson ) , and Novak gets a chance to glow as an airhead with a Marilyn Monroe air of winsome charm but ditsy manners . She tries hard , but the character seems forced and her attempt to play the simple minded glamor girl comes across as strained and awkward . But the show belongs to the shenanigans of Holliday and Lemon as they go through the paces of an amusing script with some laugh getting results . However , the material is thin and the ending is a rather predictable one with Judy successfully resisting the advances of JACK Carson and realizing who her own true love really is . Fans of Holliday and Lemmon should enjoy it , but Kim Novak still had a lot to learn .
Soft spot in my heart for this fun-filled sci-fi film from the past . . .	THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL may have lost some of its punch in this day of CGI generated thrills , and it always was a rather slow moving story that gradually builds to an interesting climax - - but it has a soft spot in my heart as one of the first sci-fi thrillers that got me interested in this genre . PATRICIA NEAL claims that she felt awfully silly uttering some of her lines spoken to Klaatu and I don't blame her . In fact , when it comes right down to it ( and seen from a different perspective years later ) , the reaction to this space alien all seems rather overdone and on the plus side of being unbelievable . But it still manages to hold the interest because everyone in the cast seems to believe in the story with solemn faces and earnest performances . MICHAEL RENNIE is quietly effective and dignified as Klaatu , and HUGH MARLOWE , SAM JAFFE and little BILLY GRAY are satisfying in supporting roles . Robert Wise directs with a flair for this sort of thing and it's just plain fun to watch the tale unfold in almost documentary fashion . It's no WAR OF THE WORLDS , but it's sci-fi fun that still clicks .
Little known WWII film about Norway's resistance to the Nazis . . .	Columbia delivered an interesting war propaganda film during WWII and COMMANDOS STRIKE AT DAWN , with Canada substituting for the Norwegian coastline . Although a little overlong and slowly paced at the start , it builds interest about midway and then never lets up being an absorbing war melodrama . PAUL MUNI is a Norwegian fisherman who flees Norway after a witnessing a cold-blooded killing and then returns from Britain to take on the Nazis as a resistance fighter . The romantic angle has him in love with the Admiral's daughter , ANNA LEE . The story opens in the blissful peacefulness of a Norwegian village , circa 1939 where Muni and Lee are enjoying the pleasantries of a wedding party and it soon becomes apparent that the scriptwriter Irwin Shaw spends too much time setting up the growing romance between Muni and Lee under John Farrow's leisurely direction . One can only hope that the pace of the story will quicken once the drums of war start beating and the Germans have started their invasion of surrounding countries . Muni is understandably upset when he witnesses the murder of a young fisherman and the aftermath of a brutal beating by one of the townsmen ( RAY COLLINS ) , and when he sees what the German invaders ( led by Alexander KNOX ) are doing to his village and that his young daughter ( ANN CARTER ) is being taught at school to hate non-Germans . On the debit side , LILLIAN GISH , as Collins ' wife , has little to do but look worried . Stalwart ROD CAMERON is improbably cast as a Lutheran pastor who has to stand by while a young man is shot by a firing squad . It takes a good forty minutes into the story before the resistance tactics start to kick in and Muni begins his vengeful acts against the Nazis . A scene involving Muni hiding in a well with his small daughter while the Nazis search his home is especially well handled . Muni's escape to England is the highlight of the story , a suspenseful scene involving one of the six men who is willing to betray them to the Nazis but whose plan has to be foiled by Muni's quick thinking action . In England , Muni renews his relationship with the Admiral's daughter and the story moves toward a satisfying , if predictable , conclusion . All the performances are first rate , and after a slow start , the picture builds suspense , especially throughout the last half of the film dealing with the escape from Norway . The final skirmish at the airfield with the British taking the Nazis by surprise is as well staged as any action sequence in war movies of this era . Not the best resistance story I've ever seen , but it's worthwhile for some very moving scenes and Muni's fine , understated performance as the determined Norwegian leader .
A Greek tragedy is pretty heavy-going stuff from Arthur Miller . . .	Arthur Miller justifiably received a lot of acclaim for his Broadway stage version of DEATH OF A SALESMAN and this film version starring FREDRIC MARCH as Willie Loman is a faithful transfer of that work . March is outstanding in his portrayal of a bitterly confused man who can't fathom why his life went so wrong , and CAMERON MITCHELL and KEVIN McCARTHY do outstanding work as the sons who are disillusioned by their father's failure . But the most memorable performance , in my estimation , comes from MILDRED DUNNOCK , who would go on to play similarly bitter women in her future roles on screen . But here she is poignant in what has to be one of the best character roles she ever had . Surprisingly , the film is little seen today , seldom revived and largely forgotten . BRIAN DENNEHY did have success in a recent Broadway version and DUSTIN Hoffman has performed the role on TV . But the Fredric March version deserves to be seen , however heavy-handed the material is . It's an exhausting experience , a story of one man's failure in life's journey , but dramatically very effective and it still has a lot to say .
Neat little mystery marks appearance of a new Lone Wolf . . .	The reformed internationally famed jewel thief is back in the guise of GERALD MOHR , replacing the late WARREN WILLIAM . He looks comfortable in the role . The story , of course , starts with a jewel robbery and he , once again , is the prime suspect . The name " Michael Lanyard " is mentioned at least a dozen times in the opening scene which seems to be overdoing the explanatory exposition to the nth degree . But the film itself is nicely paced , well written and smoothly acted by the entire case . ERIC BLORE , who describes himself as " a gentleman's gentleman or a cad's cad " is on hand again for plenty of comedy relief . EVELYN ANKERS is a woman of mystery ( as usual ) , adding to the intrigue of the plot , which has the Lone Wolf solving a theft from the Scotland Yard safe . Seems the Lone Wolf is in need of cash , having spent all his money on research for his new book about famous jewels , especially a pair called The Eyes of the Nile . He's not the only character in need of heavy cash , thus the set-up for some stolen jewels that are the center of the mystery . As usual , the plot unwinds at a fast pace and all the loose ends are tied up during the last five minutes . Summing up : Nothing special , but not bad as far as these series go .
Interesting B-film with Lloyd Bridges as the " fall guy " . . .	A young LLOYD BRIDGES plays a man whose wealthy employer is found dead of poisoning . Bridges needs the help of crime doctor WARNER BAXTER to prove that he's not the murderer . When Bridges makes a quick getaway , we have Baxter left with a household of prime suspects , including REGINALD DENNY , LYNN MERRICK , ROSE HOBART and , later on , JEROME COWAN as a man who lights too many careless matches . VIRGINIA BRISSAC is good as a loyal but suspicious housekeeper who takes Baxter into her confidence , but it's young up and coming actor LLOYD BRIDGES who manages to make the strongest impression among the supporting cast . He was a more than capable actor even then . Based on characters created in a radio play , the nice thing about CRIME DOCTOR'S STRANGEST CASE is that all the loose ends are neatly tied up by Baxter's sleuthing abilities . Summing up : Mystery buffs should find this fast moving B-film a very enjoyable crime drama from Columbia .
So-so yarn spins to a cliffhanger climax . . . not Sandra's best . . .	When it deals exclusively with the two misguided teens ( Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling ) , their classroom scenes , their conspiracy , their tense relationship , the movie springs to life . When it focuses on Sandra Bullock as a detective with Ben Chaplin as her assistant , it falters badly . First of all , Bullock's character is not understandable until one learns her whole story - - but even then , it doesn't let us like her . She's definitely not the usual Sandra Bullock sympathetic character here , and , in fact , as the central character in the story , she's rather unlikeable from beginning to end . Nor does the script give Ben Chaplin much to do except look as if he'd rather be elsewhere , especially since he has to put up with the shenanigans of his most unlikely partner . Bullock is better suited to romantic comedies than serious character roles . But the boys are wonderful , a Leopold and Loeb sort of pair , who plan the perfect murder and then let things fall apart when they find themselves up against a determined female detective who sees through them from the start . Slowly paced , the whole thing would have worked better as a one hour crime drama on television . But the charismatic performances of Pitt and Gosling are well worth watching . They're both completely believable as the pair of misguided youths . Gosling is superb as a master of casual menace - - grinning and smoothly avoiding detection even when under pressure - - until the finale . They are far more charismatic than the nominal leads , Bullock and Chaplin .
Gritty WW2 POW drama years before " Stalag 17 " . . .	Basically the story of the French resistance during the early ' 40s when the Nazis overtook France , THE CROSS OF LORRAINE is a forerunner of films like STALAG 17 , but without the humor . Instead , it's a straightforward dramatic tale of the harsh treatment meted out to the French POWs in a German prison camp . There are no real surprises in the plot - - you know from the beginning that there will be an escape plan being hatched by JEAN PIERRE AUMONT , who takes over when the former translator / informer HUME CRONYN meets his fate at the hands of prisoners . Aumont and GENE KELLY have the leading male roles and both give earnest performances in this gritty drama directed by Tay Garnett . Although it appears to be a low-budget film , there's a splendid supporting cast including SIR CEDRIC HARDWICKE , RICHARD WHORF , PETER LORRE ( as a despicable German sergeant ) , WALLACE FORD and Joseph CALLEIA . Film is engrossing all the way through but suffers from an ending that pushes the propaganda envelope too far as the French resistance overcomes the Nazi recruiters while Aumont and Kelly take aim with machine guns to help destroy a bunch of bad Nazis . Summing up : A flag waving tribute to the French resistance , it's well done for most of the way but that ending is too over-the-top to be taken seriously .
Spectacular special effects in search of a plot . . .	If only for its Oscar-nominated special effects simulating the fireworks caused by a very active Krakatoa , the film has enough eye appeal to be worth a look . But it's a pity that with a cast of talented actors aboard ship , the script and characters are so one-dimensional that after awhile one's mind wanders to watching for the next special effects sequence - - and there are plenty of them to watch . KRAKATOA , EAST OF JAVA almost looks as if it was designed for the 3D camera , with objects being tossed at the camera from above or below and must have looked even more spectacular on the big theater screen . The studio certainly has spared no expense in handsomely photographing this story of a salvage expedition that turns into a search for buried pearls on a shipwreck at the bottom of the sea . It includes a bevy of convicts aboard ship ( a plot device that really makes no sense ) , while Captain MAXIMILIAN SCHELL stays at the helm of his ship steering it into one perilous situation after another and comforting his distraught passengers , including DIANE BAKER as a worried mother whose son is at a convent school near Krakatoa . BRIAN KEITH , ROSSANO BRAZZI and SAL MINEO have cardboard supporting roles but go through their paces with conviction , never seeming to mind the one-dimensional aspect of their characters . Brazzi makes an ill-fated decision to leave the ship for shore when a tidal wave is about to approach and leaves his son ( Mineo ) aboard ship with the other characters who survive the storm . There's virtually no plot to really hook the viewer into caring about the fate of these wooden characters . Even Schell seems much too calm to be amidst such dire situations involving the safety of his ship but manages to look ruggedly handsome in torn shirt as he watches the fireworks that seem to bombard the ship at various intervals throughout . If the fireworks alone are enough to capture your interest , this is escapist adventure at best - - but don't expect a plot that makes much sense . The characters all speak in modern phrases akin to 1969 rather than the late 19th century , an anachronism that gets lost in all the fiery explosions and fireworks of a raging volcano .
Nurses struggle with battle conditions on Philippines during WWII . . .	CRY HAVOC follows in the tradition of films like SO PROUDLY WE HAIL by dealing exclusively with nurses in the Philippines on active duty during WWII . MARGARET SULLAVAN is the lieutenant in charge of a group of gals including ANN SOTHERN , ELLA RAINES , FRANCES GIFFORD and JOAN BLONDELL , all of whom are inexperienced but have to learn the ropes fast during wartime bombardments . Based on a play , it barely shows its stage origins and presents a gritty story of nurses under stress doing the best they can under dire circumstances . MARGARET SULLAVAN and FAY BAINTER fret over having to deal with " wet-nosed kids " ( as Sullavan calls them ) , all of them eventually becoming battle hardened after working conditions continually put them in harm's way . Watch for ROBERT MITCHUM in a brief unbilled bit as a dying soldier . Sullavan and Sothern argue over Sothern's infatuation for a man Sullavan loves and there's some trite dialog among the all-female cast when they get to exchange stories - - but it's still an above average melodrama of women nurses during war . Summing up : Worth it for the gritty wartime bombardments and interesting cast , but don't expect anything great . Richard Thorpe's direction keeps the pace steadfast without too many lulls until the downbeat ending .
A romantic suspense tale in the mold of an Alfred Hitchcock thriller . . .	For avid fans of Alfred Hitchcock's style of suspense , MOMENT TO MOMENT will fill the bill nicely - - especially since it's lavishly photographed among some beautiful French Riviera surroundings and extremely well played by JEAN SEBERG ( at her most radiant ) and has HONOR BLACKMAN in an enjoyably campy role as her best friend and neighbor . Seems that Jean is a bored housewife who drifts into a tender affair with a hunky sailor ( SEAN GARRISON , whose career seemed to go nowhere except to TV roles ) , and when she kills him during an explosive argument she gets help from her neighbor to bury the body in a nearby ravine . From then on , it's a cat-and-mouse game with the French authorities that keeps the audience guessing right up until the finale . Under Mervyn LeRoy's direction , this is a little slow-moving when it should have been more taut with suspense . Still , it's so attractively filmed and performed , and accompanied by an attractive Henry Mancini score , that it's recommended viewing for any fan of this sort of suspenseful romance .
Dances from 1917 to the ' 40s with Veloz and Yolanda . . .	Narrated by Art Gilmore and directed by Jean Negulesco for Warner Bros . , this is a short illustrating the various dance tempos throughout the ' 20s to ' 40s era . Among the dances , the Tango and Rhumba stand out as the most exotic displays of ballroom dancing - - but there's also the One Step ( 1917 ) , Charlston ( ' 20s ) , Black Bottom , a popular Mexican waltz , and the Jitterbug . Veloz and Yolanda give all the dances some extra flavor with their darkly Latin looks and body movements that flow with the music in a way that all great dancers are capable of . But the best segment is the exotic movements to the Rhumba . Strange to see Jean Negulesco , a director later known for his strong dramatic films ( JOHNNY BELINDA , ROADHOUSE ) , rather than musicals , but this must have been at the start of his career at Warner Bros . There is no story angle at all , just the dances .
Fairbanks before his prime time period in the ' 20s . . .	DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS was quite the swashbuckler of his era in the 1920s , especially during the time of his biggest triumphs in ROBIN HOOD , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD , THE MARK OF ZORRO and THE BLACK PIRATE . But this is an early relic from his silent screen career as early as 1917 , and , of course , has to be judged by today's standards of film-making for any potential viewers outside of curious film buffs who want to see it . Fairbanks was athletic and agile enough , but always looked middle-aged , even though here he's only 34 . Furthermore , he looked husky rather than trim - - unlike his son , Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . , a much better looking man . But his physical prowess is amazing . He clambers over fences , cars , horses in a mere jump . He climbs up over anything in his way with the ease of a monkey swinging through trees , exuberantly smiling while he struts his way through whatever impediment is in his way . And the film itself , for a relic that was filmed in 1917 , is in amazingly good condition , fully restored and with a jaunty background score that is not jarring and obtrusive the way so many of the silent film scores were . The story is really two stories that run concurrently : the D'Artagnan legend is illustrated in a few brief scenes of derring-do with Fairbanks rescuing a damsel in distress . The young Kansas man who desperately wants to leave his provincial roots ( in a scene deliriously overplayed by Fairbanks ) is also anxious to have a life of adventure and romance , like D'Artagnan . His father and mother give him their blessing and send him on his way - - and the rest of the plot is predictable but fun to watch as he finds his own damsel in distress to rescue from a villainous man . Fun , and thin on plot - - but it does move as briskly as Fairbanks himself . Amusing to realize that only twenty years later , his son , Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . would be in a little swashbuckler called THE PRISONER OF ZENDA .
Uneven thriller with top notch cast . . .	LURED starts out promisingly with Scotland Yard on the trail of a serial killer and enlisting a friend of the latest victim ( LUCILLE BALL ) to help them solve the crime . CHARLES COBURN is the police inspector who sends Lucille on a dangerous mission to trap a killer . GEORGE SANDERS , in one of his more colorless roles , is the man with romantic designs on Ball the minute he has a phone conversation with her when she applies for a showgirl job opening . Sanders without witty dialog plays his straight role in a rather bored fashion , but there's some colorful work by ALAN MOBRAY , SIR CEDRIC HARDWICKE , GEORGE ZUCCO , ROBERT COOTE and ALAN NAPIER . Best of all is BORIS KARLOFF in an offbeat role as a mad dress designer who gets the chance to chew all the scenery in sight and then some . But somewhere towards the middle , the story loses steam and whatever dramatic tension was built up in the earlier scenes . Still , it manages to hold the interest with several red herrings tossed in the mix to throw off suspicion . However , any true mystery fan ought to be able to guess the murderer from the start . Best when it's going along at a brisk pace , but it does slow down to a trot toward the end . Lucille Ball does well in a dramatic role ( delivered with some typical light touches ) and all in all it manages to entertain despite some flaws . Douglas Sirk , noted more for his Technicolored melodramas in the ' 50s , does a nice job of direction .
Improbable but entertaining . . . early Hutton , Penn and Cruise . . .	Hold the fort seems to be the slogan of these military cadets when they decide to rally behind TIMOTHY HUTTON who wants an armed defense of the school from authorities who want to shut it down after an accidental shooting by the presiding General Bache ( GEORGE C . SCOTT ) . Aiding and abetting are TOM CRUISE and , in his film debut , SEAN PENN . The tale seems highly improbable but is played so earnestly , is scripted so well , and directed so competently that it manages to hold the attention until the more or less predictable outcome . The cadets are all extremely well played , from the very young boys to those who appear to be in their early twenties . When the authorities are unable to take back the school , the parents appeal to the children through loud speakers . " Sometimes being accepted by your friends , isn't worth the price , " says one mother . Unfortunately , the stalemate phase of the movie lasts much too long to sustain interest . But it's interesting now to watch the very young Hutton , Penn and Cruise show why they became superstars . I agree with Maltin who says it " plays its cards too soon , leaving a lot of dead weight before the outcome . " Summing up : Improbable story , but entertaining in a curious way . Memorable line from Hutton's father resonates today : " They think you're home grown terrorists . "
Simple , warm , unusual treatment of difficult subject . . .	JUDY GARLAND , as a naive music teacher looking for more fulfillment in a job that helps retarded children , and BURT LANCASTER as the head of the school for such youngsters , are the principal reason for watching this movie . Garland gives a very sincere , unaffected performance of the woman who eventually clashes with Lancaster when her coddling of a favorite student is deemed an inappropriate way to deal with his handicap . Directed by John Cassavetes , this has an almost documentary feel to it as we meet the retarded and see how the staff is dealing with them . As scripted by Abby Mann , it's a sensitive study of an unusual theme and has been given a tremulous but low-key performance from Garland , one of her better mature roles and one that shows what an admirable actress she could be . As the stern taskmaster , Lancaster too never lets down his share of the acting requirements , being completely believable and authoritative in all of his scenes . A bit slow-moving , but worth your attention for its sincere attempt to tell a heart-warming story .
Athletes display their acrobatic skills . . .	It's mesmerizing to watch the uncanny knack these Florida State University athletes have for bending and twisting their bodies in a gymnastic display of poise , strength and skill . Whether they're grasping steel rings to perform their acrobatic twists and turns and somersaulting through the air or just demonstrating extraordinary control over their bodies with handstands and push ups , these athletes are amazing to watch . Narrated by Peter Roberts , it's a B & W short that breezes through 8 minutes of running time in an entertaining manner . Well worth a watch .
Bagpipes and uprisings in Colonial India . . .	Not until the story reaches the tense banquet scene does THE DRUM really come to life . Before that , there's a lot of character and plot exposition that slows things up considerably before the big showdown toward the end that is really the highlight of the drama . SABU is the young prince that RAYMOND MASSEY wants to depose so that he can rule the unruly Indian tribes that resent British rule . ROGER LIVESEY is Captain Carruthers and VALERIE HOBSON is his lovely wife , a British couple adept at keeping a stiff upper lip while they deal with the uprising around them . RAYMOND MASSEY has the juiciest role and he's at his villainous best without overdoing it . It's all very Rudyard Kiplingesque in treatment and if you've got a feeling of deja vu , you're not alone . What it lacks is the excitement of a " Gunga Din " or " Lives of the Bengal Lancers . " The story is slow to build suspense and the Technicolor print shown on TCM had a washed out look that made THE DRUM look like a film in need of color restoration . Livesey and Hobson haven't too much to do except to be their charming selves in a very British way and Sabu has been seen to better advantage in countless other films that followed . Summing up : Not one of the best of this genre but worth watching for the climactic banquet and battle .
Nostalgic vaudeville musical should please Grable / Dailey fans . . .	While BETTY GRABLE was never in the same league with Ginger Rogers or Rita Hayworth as a dancer , she does manage to keep up nicely with DAN DAILEY in this pleasant backstage musical of a vaudeville couple who become a dance team , marry and raise a family . The voice-over narration is by none other than ANNE BAXTER , although MONA FREEMAN and CONNIE MARSHALL play the couple's children . Grable is still at the height of her box-office popularity here , charming in the song-and-dance routines that show off her shapely figure and modest talents as a dancer , while Dailey is at his breezy best as her highly confident partner . By today's standards , it's no doubt going to find some who find it too schmaltzy and corny but fans of the escapist movies of the ' 40s will no doubt succumb to its charms . Alfred Newman's musical score won a Best Musical Score Oscar and the film had two nominations for Color Cinematography and the song " You Do " . The musical numbers are light and entertaining , my personal favorite being the " Kokomo , Indiana " song-and-dance , although the Oscar winning ballad is nice enough . But there's nothing special here . Grable fans might be disappointed that the musical numbers aren't more lavish ( or as garish as they usually are in a Grable film ) , but the story has some warm appeal that makes up for the neglected gaudier aspects . Trivia note : An actor named STEPHEN DUNNE ( as Roy ) , bears a remarkable resemblance to GEORGE MONTGOMERY . Could be his twin brother ! !
Entertaining sequel is fast-moving adventure despite questionable moments . . .	When I asked my boss whether his kids thought the Kali scene of torture ( where a priest tears a man's heart out of his body ) was at all disturbing , he just shrugged and said , " It didn't bother them . " That's an indication of how undisturbed we've become when it comes to sensibilities that have been blurred over the years as we see more and more brutality on screen . Nowadays , kids are prone to see such things without causing nightmares - - but , hey , the film did get a PG rating for just such excesses of questionable taste . HARRISON FORD is again the man with the dirty fedora and this time his adventures start with a scene in a Shanghai night club where Cole Porter's " Anything Goes " is rendered in Chinese and where we might think we've stumbled into the wrong theater showing the wrong film . It's an extensive sequence and manages to be the best scene in the whole film , funny and wittily inventive . It's also a meeting between Indiana and KATE CAPSHAW , who plays the heroine this time , with frankly too many screaming moments - - although she IS funny . The story takes a fast turn with a chase through Shanghai streets and takes many twists and turns before ending up in some kind of religious temple in the Himalayas where the Kali cult is up to no good and missing children are being used as slaves . It's all got that Saturday afternoon serial flavor - - just like the first Indiana Jones - - only this time the tone is a little darker , especially when dealing with the Kali cult and there's a palace meal that will churn many an adult stomach , even if the kids can take it . In fact , most kids will love TEMPLE OF DOOM - - and so will most adults - - but be aware it does have some gross moments of highly questionable taste .
A Warner Bros . Vitaphone short experimenting with color . . .	It's hard to believe that the Technicolor captured in CARNIVAL DAY , made in 1936 , was as beautiful as anything that came years later . In fact , it appears to be a Vitaphone short from Warner Bros . that was produced solely to test the Technicolor cameras for authentic color and flesh tones . It succeeds brilliantly , making it possible for the studio to go ahead with plans to film THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD in color the following year ( ' 37 ) for release in ' 38 . No real plot here , just an abundance of carnival sights and sounds with Italian character actor HENRY ARMETTA as a man peddling colorful balloons and sampling some of the hot dogs and other goodies between sales pitches . It's he who thwarts two bad guys who are trying to fix the race by puncturing his balloons and making them sound like gunfire . That's about it , for a plot . But the viewer will be entranced by the spectacular color shots including the Arabian white horses on parade with thoroughbreds and grand champions ; Angora goats ; bulls and cows ; stablemen including a black boy who tap dances Bill Robinson style ; and side shows including fire eaters . Meanwhile , there's a singing segment where the jockey tenor sings a love song to a pretty girl while the camera captures the full beauty of roses in bloom . After Armetta foils the crooks , there's a race to the finish that the jockey wins , of course . A short subject worth watching for the color alone .
Good Hope comedy is a spoof of all the detective film noirs . . .	The worst thing about MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE is the bad print TCM is showing . Looks like a poor Public Domain print that is almost worn out with the years . The comedy itself is a bright one with clever lines and situations . BOB HOPE is a baby photographer mistaken for a private eye by no less than DOROTHY LAMOUR who asks his help in finding her hubby's murderer . Turns out she's really talking about her uncle , but she's a liar ( like Mary Astor in THE MALTESE FALCON ) . The gags get off to a good start with ALAN LADD asking Bob to mind his office while he packs a gun and goes on a private eye mission . Hope obliges Lamour by showing up at the mansion she occupies , described by Hope as " something left over from Wuthering Heights . " PETER LORRE , JOHN HOYT , CHARLES DINGLE , REGINALD DENNY and LON CHANEY , JR . are excellent in sustaining the humor as they go about making things tough for detective Hope . LON CHANEY , JR . is particularly effective in a replay of his dimwit role from " Of Mice and Men " . Dingle , likewise , seems to be repeating his role of the crooked Southern gentleman in THE LITTLE FOXES . Hope is told that Dotty is a schizophrenic imagining that her uncle has been kidnapped and she's only dangerous when emotionally disturbed . He's supposed to believe that the map she talked about and a missing treasure is just part of her illness . " Promise me you'll guard the map with your life , " she tells Hope . Once Hope finds out Carlotta ( Lamour ) is telling the truth , the gags come fast and furious and he spends the rest of the film coping with the various dangerous situations involving the gangsters . Part of the comedy comes from the bad guys planting misleading clues in the hope that Hope will find them , to no avail . It's entertaining with Hope at his liveliest and Lamour at her prettiest and a supporting cast that more than compensates for a script that's only fault is that it's pretty predictable from start to finish . Despite flaws , if you can find a decent print of the film it's worth watching .
Chandler's Marlowe transferred to the ' 60s . . .	Shifting Chandler's private eye to the ' 60s seems to work fairly well , although I still miss the film noir look of the gritty ' 40s melodramas with either Humphrey Bogart or George Montgomery as Marlowe . In addition , filming this one in color to take advantage of some Los Angeles locations , was not necessarily the best idea . JAMES GARNER works well as Marlowe , although I still prefer the dry delivery of Humphrey Bogart and his one-liners in THE BIG SLEEP . But Garner is at his physical peak and makes a persuasive private detective on the trail of someone's missing brother . Along the way , he gets involved with the usual assortment of disreputable characters who occupy seedy hotel rooms and the shady side of town . With a supporting cast that includes CARROLL O'CONNOR , JACKIE COOGAN and RITA MORENO ( as a stripper ) , it's a stylish updating of Chandler's novel , " The Little Sister " . And let's not forget BRUCE LEE who does a Karate job on Garner's office wall and furniture . Too many of the early scenes drag and it's an hour into the story before the plot gets any livelier . In short , the plot remains rather flat and devoid of any real urgent suspense in spite of the fact that it deals with ice pick murders . Summing up : Despite the okay performance from Garner , it remains a flabby exercise in suspense , lacking the terse quality of Chandler's stories and doesn't really perk up until the last ten minutes .
Tantalizing reconstruction with elegant stills gives a hint of how good the film may have been . . .	Personally , I'm grateful that the elegant B & W production stills survived in order that we can see what Tod Browning's production might have looked like had it not been destroyed by fire . It also helps if you've seen Browning's remake of this same story called THE MARK OF THE VAMPIRE ( ' 35 ) with its surprise ending being made much clearer than it is in this reconstruction where there is only one caption that even hints at what was going on with the theatrics . I was captivated by the dark-haired beauty of MARCELINE DAY and appalled at the silent histrionics of CONRAD NAGEL who wore the same look of horror and disbelief in every shot . The ending was blunted without giving a full explanation for any of the doings , which is why seeing the ' 35 version is advisable for anyone who is still confused . The ' 35 version had BELA LUGOSI , LIONEL ATWILL and LIONEL BARRYMORE in key roles and was extremely well worth viewing . This silent version , reconstructed with stills , appeared to be beautifully photographed with appropriately cobweb-covered interiors and intense B & W lighting for atmospheric effects . Chaney's make-up appeared to be quite startling - - for me it was even more so than his " Phantom " disguise - - and his Inspector Burke seemed a very forceful creation judging from the intense finger waving stills . Well done reconstruction except for the weak ending which missed making its point . The background score was fine .
Alan Ladd sleepwalks through one of his last roles . . .	There's a nice New England feel in the Connecticut opening scenes of THE MAN IN THE NET and director Michael Curtiz makes striking visual use of the B & W camera in artfully photographing a country farmhouse with its rustic interiors full of paintings supposedly done by local artist ALAN LADD . Ladd's wife , CAROLYN JONES , doesn't share his passion for the arts , staging quite a scene with neighbors when she breaks into a birthday party with a shiner and accuses her husband of mistreating her during one of their arguments . It provides a nice set-up for someone to eventually murder her , making Ladd look like the main suspect . Alan Ladd , only 46 at the time , seems almost lifeless and delivers a completely stiff performance that has him befriending neighborhood kids in such a fashion that they become willing to help him avoid detection when the villagers turn on him . This aspect of the story simply rings false , as does the rest of the plot which is too pat and contrived to seem plausible . The children are not exactly adept at delivering most of their lines . DIANE FOSTER does a nice job as a decent neighborhood woman who helps Ladd prove his innocence and CHARLES McGRAW , JOHN LUPTON and TOM HELMORE are fine as other suspects in the supporting cast . But for a man accused of a crime he didn't commit , Ladd has all the facial animation of a department store mannequin . Trivia note : The bit about the slashed paintings reminds me of the Ronald Colman / Ida Lupino flick THE LIGHT THAT FAILED , but Jones ' emoting in the party scene is on the level of Bette Davis at her histrionic overkill .
Dr , Ordway can't take a vacation from crime . . .	WARNER BAXTER was approaching the last few " Crime Doctor " films when he made THE MILLERSON CASE , about an epidemic of typhoid that's tainted by a slight case of murder . Seems that while trying to have a vacation in the country , Dr . Ordway is pressured to join other doctors in helping out when typhoid strikes the townspeople . A gruff country doctor ( GRIFF BARNETT ) opposes the notion that the epidemic is anything more than " summer complaint " . But a microscopic examination of bacilii proves that one of the victims was not dead from typhoid , but poison . As usual , there are a number of suspects and Sheriff CLEM BEVANS has his hands full arresting first one , then another , each time fooled into suspecting the wrong culprits . The only quibble I have with the story is that when the denouement does come and the mystery is solved , it turns out to be the least interesting character that did it . The sleuthing is interesting in all of these " Crime Doctor " stories , and as usual , at the end there's a little extra surprise thrown in at the last moment . Reliable character actor GRIFF BARNETT , as Dr . Millerson , was a busy character actor throughout the ' 40s and ' 50s , most memorable as Olivia de Havilland's druggist father in TO EACH HIS OWN ( ' 46 ) . He played a much more likable character in that one .
Pleasant B-picture programmer starring Evelyn Keyes . . .	In the era of double features , DANGEROUS BLONDES most probably served as a pleasant second banana with a B-film budget from Columbia Studios , and a cast that included EVELYN KEYES , ALLYN JOSLYN , JOHN HUBBARD , EDMUND LOWE , ANITA LOUISE with WILLIAM DEMAREST and FRANK CRAVEN as detectives . It's a fast-paced comedy / mystery with the most unlikely turning out to be the killer but with very little character depth to make solving the puzzle a sensible thing to do . Instead , just sit back and enjoy the shenanigans of minor sleuths Keyes and Joslyn in a Nick and Nora mode as they plunge into discovering what's going on at a fashion studio where a murder takes place . Naturally , it takes lots of effort on their part and plenty of dangerous situations before they straighten the whole thing out with the cooperation of detective Craven and his sidekick , William Demarest . It's fun to watch pert EVELYN KEYES and ALLYN JOSLYN as her husband given some amusing situations in a tidy little mystery with the accent on comedy .
John Payne gets an early break in GARDEN OF THE MOON . . .	This little known musical comedy , very minor league in every department , gave JOHN PAYNE the kind of break that led to a seven-year contract at Fox after they saw him as the brash band leader / singer in this modest programmer . The band sequences are directed with a certain flair and flourish , thanks to director Busby Berkeley , despite the fact that this time there's no fancy choreography for him to work into the routines . And among the musicians is comic JERRY COLONNA , better known later on as Bob Hope's favorite comic foil . But PAT O'BRIEN is the star and he overacts his blustery , fast-talking nightclub manager , chewing on a cigar , in the fashion that most Warner comedies of the period thought was stylish . He plays it in broad , farcical style but gets a little overbearing for my taste , while Payne seems almost low-key by comparison . MARGARET LINDSAY is the pretty lady serving as Payne's romantic interest and is more animated than usual . It's not a bad little musical , but most of the songs are high forgettable items except for the " Whirling Dervish " number and serve only to give the story more bounce than it normally would have . Passes the time pleasantly enough , but is nothing anyone should go out of their way to see . At least JOHN PAYNE's fans get a glimpse of why he got signed to a Fox contract . CURT BOIS adds an amusing touch as a phony Maharahjah whom MELVILLE COOPER realizes is a waiter who had trouble with champagne corks and used to pinch a pocket or two in his old job as a waiter . Amusing fluff . Trivia note : JIMMY FIDLER , famous Hollywood columnist of the period , makes a brisk appearance in a supporting role and isn't bad at all .
Garfield makes the biggest impression in sentimental film . . .	The sisterly affection is almost insufferable in FOUR DAUGHTERS , so wishy-washy is the script that has them treating each other with such tender care . One sister ( PRISCILLA LANE ) even runs off with the wrong man in an effort to spare her sister's feelings about the man she truly loves . This noble act eventually goes unrewarded , since the man she runs off with ( JOHN GARFIELD ) decides to end his life - - which then makes it possible for Priscilla Lane to end up with the handsome suitor she originally loved - - JEFFREY LYNN . If this all sounds like sentimental tripe , it is - - but at least Michael Curtiz gets three fine performances from the cast . JOHN GARFIELD made the biggest impression on critics at the time of release , since nobody had seen an actor of his ilk before , contemptuously tossing off lines in a manner that would later suit Marlon Brando or James Dean . He became an overnight star with his Oscar-nominated supporting role . PRISCILLA LANE , as the youngest sister who makes the noble sacrifice , is refreshingly natural and extremely sensitive as the only Lane sister who is really given a part that she can grab hold of . The other sisters , ROSEMARY and LOLA LANE , have roles that are so underwritten that they're unplayable . JEFFREY LYNN is fine as the handsome and carefree young man that all of the sisters are attracted to . Unfortunately , CLAUDE RAINS seems miscast as the girls ' father , giving the role none of the distinctive Rains traits that always made his supporting roles so memorable . He just fades into the background , as do GALE PAGE , DICK FORAN , MAY ROBSON , FRANK McHUGH and others among the Warner contract players , while Garfield and Lane hold the spotlight . A musical version called YOUNG AT HEART starring DORIS DAY and FRANK SINATRA used pretty much the same script , word for word , with the addition of WarnerColor and music . Not bad at all and Sinatra was just as good as Garfield in the role of the sullen songwriter who saw himself as victimized by fate . The musical version changed the ending , the only big difference .
Depression-era look at farming is a minor classic . . .	TOM KEENE and KAREN MORLEY are the lesser-known stars of this Depression-era classic , a poor man's " Grapes of Wrath " , about a young farming couple who use ingenuity to overcome a drought that threatens to ruin their crops . Tom Keene was a B-actor who did mostly westerns and does a sincere , earnest job of playing the kind of " everyman " role that Henry Fonda and Joel McCrea usually played in these sort of films . While he has a limited range , he makes an appealing hero , a man who fires others with his ambitious idea to build a gully for the water to reach the crops that are badly in need of water . It's this sequence , with the men following orders and digging the ditches that make a pathway for the water , that really makes the film special . Otherwise , it's a rather drab exercise in showing the downtrodden lives of farming people during the Great Depression of the ' 30s . KAREN MORLEY is lovely as the loyal woman who stands by her man and JOHN QUALEN does an effective job as a frustrated farmer . Some striking scenes for the last half-hour , but a bit heavy going before that .
Kirk Douglas shines in nerve-wracking , gritty drama based on true story . . .	KIRK DOUGLAS was always a dependable actor and occasionally brilliant when he had a good script and a good director . Here he has both , and he's in his element with Billy Wilder's direction making the most of a cynical story of a reporter exploiting human drama for his own benefit . JAN STERLING , as the trapped man's wife , matches Douglas for toughness every step of the way . " I met a lot of hard-boiled eggs in my time , " she tells Douglas , whom she sees through with his scheme of profiteering from the accident . " But you're twenty minutes . " A few more cynical remarks and he's smacking her across the face twice . No one looks any good , as far as the characters go . The gawkers are shown to be the sort that stare at accidents and are soon turning Sterling's tacky establishment into a gold mine . The cynical screenplay catches all of the nuances of the exploited situation and Douglas comes up with remarks like , " Tomorrow that will be yesterday's news and they'll wrap a fish in it . " As the arrogant man who delays the rescue to milk the situation for the most he can get out of it , KIRK DOUGLAS gives a riveting performance as a louse . He never tries to soften the part , nor does director Wilder ever shy away from exposing the hypocrisy at work . Still a very timely story and expose of hypocrisy on several levels by the press and public . RICHARD BENEDICT as the trapped man and ROBERT ARTHUR as a naive young reporter are both excellent in strong supporting roles . Summing up : Brilliant film deserves much more attention than it gets .
Lake District of Northern England gets the " TravelTalk " treatment . . .	Picturesque " TravelTalk " from James A . FitzPatrick is another mildly interesting look at an England that still embodies much of the past in its ancient landmarks . We glimpse a vine covered grammar school which Wordsworth is said to have attended ; quaint towns looking much as they did in earlier centuries ; old churches with tombstones of famous British figures ; the Markham Bay health resort with its huge swimming pool using filtered sea water ; the ancient city of York featuring the shell of an ancient castle . A pleasing enough documentary with some nice Technicolor images .
Bette is surprised by Ralph Edwards . . .	Enjoyable entry in the THIS IS YOUR LIFE series has Bette being surprised by Ralph Edwards and then settling down to greet the various guests who arrive to reminisce with her . WILLIAM WYLER , of course , was present to talk about that famous scene in THE LETTER where they debated over whether Bette should say a certain line ( " I still love the man I killed with all my heart " ) while looking directly at her husband or looking away . Later in the program , Wyler's star of THE HEIRESS shows up - - OLIVIA DE HAVILLANwarmly greeting Bette after we hear her voice and the announcement comes that she has flown all the way from Paris to be here tonight . She and Bette greet each other warmly , like old friends , and then Olivia tells how frightened she was of Bette when they first did a couple of films together . " Really ? " says Bette . " I always liked you , Olivia . " Olivia claims that not until their third film together , IN THIS OUR LIFE , did Davis warm up to her . " You were always so damned pretty , " says Davis to audience laughter . Enjoyable show and it's shown once in awhile on the cable Game Network .
Enjoyable B-western given Grade A trimmings and a good cast . . .	Whatever merit BEST OF THE BADMEN has as a movie can be traced to its cast of film veterans headed by ROBERT RYAN , ROBERT PRESTON , CLAIRE TREVOR , WALTER BRENNAN , BRUCE CABOT , JACK BEUTEL and LAWRENCE TIERNEY , all of whom look right at home in this post-Civil War western about Quantrill's Raiders who are still acting as though the war between the states isn't over . CLAIRE TREVOR has her usual hard-boiled role as Lily , a woman married to ROBERT PRESTON , a corrupt man out to capture the good Yankee , ROBERT RYAN - - but who meets with resistance when his wife plots to help Ryan escape jail . The story is rather routine and not on too firm a footing toward the end , but it's all made enjoyable by the usual number of shootouts and roundups , all filmed in some fine Technicolor . While Preston and Cabot have the meatiest bad men roles , it's really Ryan and Trevor who walk off with the acting honors . As for JACK BEUTEL , it's easy to see why he never made it to major stardom despite his handsome good looks .
Standard Randolph Scott film should have kept Zane Grey's original title . . .	GUNFIGHTERS is the unoriginal title for Zane Grey's " Twin Sombreros " , which , considering the story is about two sisters who are almost twin-like in appearance , would have been a more apt title for this film . The story is routine as depicted here , with bad guy BRUCE CABOT as the man responsible for a few killings over range rights on property owned by GRIFF BARNETT and his daughters BARBARA BRITTON and DOROTHY HART . RANDOLPH SCOTT is the man who rides into town at the start without his gunbelt , but by the end of the story he dons it for the final gun duel before tossing it off again and heading west for the happy ending . This is after he's fought a couple of the town bullies , including FORREST TUCKER , and won . What surprised me was how good the warm tones of Cinecolor looked , while not quite up to the standard of three-strip Technicolor . Looks as though Columbia was aiming to give the film an A-budget look . For Randolph Scott fans , it's a treat to see him in fine shape - - but the script is ordinary and the direction is uninspired . One would never guess the story is from an original penned by Zane Grey .
Grace Moore's Oscar-nominated role in very dated musical . . .	Unlike MGM's favorite soprano , JEANETTE MacDONALD , other singers from the Met tried screen careers at various times in the ' 30s , but none emerged winning enough as screen personalities to rival Jeanette . Columbia tried hard with GRACE MOORE and this is undoubtedly one of her better efforts at attaining screen stardom . TULLIO CARMINATI is amusingly persistent as her demanding voice coach who discovers her singing " Ciribiribin " in a cellar cafe before offering to become her tutor . LYLE TALBOT is her boyfriend with marriage on his mind . But the silly script has Miss Moore acting like a spoiled prima donna , cavorting with boyfriend Talbot while supposedly training for her big moment as " Carmen " . A series of misunderstandings involving another woman , MONA BARRIE ( strongly resembling Kay Francis ) , makes up much of the backstage part of the story and only weakens the overall film . Moore is fine whenever she's singing but the lip synch is way off during the final " Un Bel Di " and it's hard to see where her performance earned her an Oscar nomination for the acting part of her role . Summing up : A disappointment for me , regardless of glowing tributes from the other commentators on this particular film .
China on the back lot of MGM . . . but still a good Garbo film . . .	GRETA GARBO marries a man she doesn't really love ( afraid of being an old maid when her sister marries ) , so HERBERT MARSHALL once again must face the fate he had in most of his films - - he's saddled with a wife who doesn't really love him , at least in the first reel . But in THE PAINTED VEIL , Garbo comes to realize that he's more worthy of her love than the scoundrel she meets in China , where she has joined her husband in his quest to fight cholera . The scoundrel is played with his usual indifference by GEORGE BRENT , looking more youthful than audiences would expect who are mostly familiar with his ' 40s films as a favorite Warner Bros . leading man . Neither Marshall nor Brent has ever had an electric screen presence , but it doesn't matter in this case . The camera lingers lovingly on the face of Garbo as she changes expressions delicately under as many flattering close-ups as could be managed . It's really one of her better performances , less actressy than usual and making it seem credible in the end that she could come to love and value her husband when she sees how he affects the lives of others . Summing up : A bit contrived and melodramatic , but much better than a lot of Garbo films in the early ' 30s with interesting sets and costumes .
Sidney Toler takes over the role for the first time . . .	Upon Warner Roland's death , it was SIDNEY TOLER's turn to play the Chinese detective with the huge family . This time his son is played by Victor Sen Yung , who would go on to play the role of Jimmy Chan in many future Chan films . This time the plot involves $300 , 000 of stolen money and a slew of passengers aboard a freighter , several of which are suspicious enough to be questioned by Chan about their associations . RICHARD LANE , MARC LAWRENCE , PHYLLIS BROOKS , EDDIE COLLINS and ROBERT BARRAT are the chief suspects but it's GEORGE ZUCCO , a mad doctor with thick glasses carrying a live brain in a suitcase , who makes the most vivid impression and , at one point , actually seems to be the killer when a couple of murders occur . Not the best of the series , but it does make a good start for Sidney Toler who would go on to keep playing Chan until the mid-'40s . The comic relief from Eddie Collins is sometimes painful and Chan's quotations are a bit much , as usual . He gathers the passengers together for the final scene and stages a bit of detective work that gives the story a nice finish . Summing up : As usual , the viewer is given almost no way to solve the crime .
Clash of titans - - Gable and Greenstreet . . .	THE HUCKSTERS is never quite the film you want it to be . Based on a popular best-selling novel about integrity in the radio commercials industry , it pits CLARK GABLE , man who still has some good old American values after returning from WWII , against ruthless soap tycoon SYDNEY GREENSTREET , who enjoys instilling fear into all of his underlings - - and absolute obedience . Naturally , the big build-up is what happens when Gable gives Greenstreet his comeuppance - - a memorable sequence that is probably the most satisfying moment in a highly unsatisfying film . Both DEBORAH KERR and AVA GARDNER get some nice glossy close-ups , MGM style , but their roles are synthetic and remain as uncomplicated as window dressing . Nevertheless , it's nice to see both of them looking so appealing this early in their careers - - with Deborah making her American film debut . Gable has matured a great deal since his return to the screen after the war , but gives a very assured performance as the man who finds out that he can take just so much phoniness before he explodes . A nice supporting cast of MGM regulars rounds out the cast , with special mention for KEENAN WYNN's sad-eyed clown and EDWARD ARNOLD's Mr . Nice Guy . Summing up : Weakest angle is the romance between Gable and Kerr , but Sydney Greenstreet walks off with the film anyway .
Ginger proves her comic timing was among the best . . .	I don't know why so many of the reviewers here have taken such a strong dislike to CAREFREE simply because they take the characters too seriously . Sure , FRED ASTAIRE doesn't show the most ethical side of a therapist but , hey , we know this is a Fred and Ginger movie , and isn't it a nice change of pace to have him playing a professional for a change , even if he is a cad ? And how can anyone fault GINGER ROGERS for being goofy when this is a screwball comedy that gives her a chance to demonstrate what she could do with physical comedy - - such as her uninhibited way with breaking glass while under hypnosis ? It's all done in good-natured style , with the usual " other man " role for RALPH BELLAMY as the guy who never has a chance of getting the girl . Although " Change Partners " is clearly the best Irving Berlin song in the whole show , it definitely needed better showcasing than it gets here . It comes across as a weak , throwaway number as performed in the film . JACK Carson has a brief comic assignment that he handles deftly , but the film puts the spotlight on Ginger's comic abilities and it's she who has the meatiest role . Astaire , when dancing with or without Ginger , is at his usual peak of perfection , particularly in the golf course number . Summing up : Highly enjoyable , if not among the best of the pair's best films .
A man searching for " raison d'etre " . . .	The last days in the life of a disillusioned man are examined with subtle restraint in this Louis Malle film , THE FIRE WITHIN ( U . S . title ) . MAURICE RONET is the man , one of the great French stars of the ' 60s . It's a very stark drama from a French novel and it will capture your interest from the beginning . Ronet is a recovering alcoholic at a clinic who toys with the idea of using a gun to end his feelings of " contant anxiety " . His life is empty without love or meaningful relationships . " I keep thinking something will happen tomorrow , " he tells a doctor . " But what ? " You'd think the doctor would notice the suicidal newspaper clippings on his wall next to the mirror , including a huge candid photo of Marilyn Monroe . If anyone was looking carefully for signs , they were there . Ronet plays the quiet intellectual with understated nuances but is always inside his character . He's in the Laurence Harvey category of sensitive British character actor and is never showy in a role that some might have been tempted to overplay . He has chosen a date on which he intends to end it all and spends the last days of his life saying farewell to friends . The theme was too depressing to have wide audience appeal and the film was a box-office failure for Malle . Much of the film gets bogged down in too much intellectual discussion relating to Ronet's particular " illness " and nothing is ever resolved in any of these rather empty talks . It's a downbeat story with an ending that is inevitable . Worthwhile , but not the sort of film you're likely to want to indulge in more than once , too cold and clinical in treatment .
Sumptuous look at wealth and poverty of India . . .	" India on Parade " is a James A . FitzPatrick Travelog giving glimpses of the wealth and abject poverty of India , its tribal customs and its pageantry . A beautiful glimpse of the Taj Mahal and the story of its construction as a reflection of the love of a man for his wife when she died , is especially poignant and impressive . If you want to see " elephants on parade " ( no , not pink elephants as in DUMBO ) , you'll enjoy viewing the especially well trained elephants costumed in expensive trappings encrusted with jewels as men on white horses parade them around the grounds . Royal elephants , sacred oxen , and frisky monkeys are all on exhibit in various scenes . The short closes appropriately with a long , lingering look at the architecture of the Taj Mahal before leaving India .
Some scary highlights in a basically silly story . . .	The scare factor is pretty good in THE GRAVEDANCERS . It's a shame the script which relies heavily on special effects for most of the scares , isn't more intelligent . Toward the last fifteen minutes the scares are so over-the-top that they become laughable . It doesn't help that the principal male performance by Dominic Purcell ranges from bland to bad . The plot has three young people who disrespected a grave site getting visits from evil spirits . Seems the site was the burial ground for a bunch of undesirables - - an ax murderer , a pyromaniac and a rapist . When they seek help from a parapsychologist and his assistant , the fun begins in earnest . A graveyard scene where a few of the bodies are uncovered is gruesome and frightening . But after that , the scenes with the evil spirits are way too grotesque for comfort and the plot becomes an extended ghoul fest full of blood thirsty creatures . Basic idea for the story is a good one . Executing this idea doesn't quite work beyond a surface level of shock moments that become increasingly unbelievable before the story is over .
Nan Wynn is featured singer with Freddie Rich Orchestra . . .	I love these big band short subjects from the ' 30s and ' 40s . This one features FREDDIE RICH AND HIS ORCHESTRA . I can't say the songs themselves are anything memorable , but Rich gives various members of his band time to shine with their individual instruments . He also gives a trio of girl singers plenty of time to warble a popular tune with NAN WYNN joining in for a pleasant rendition of " Loch Lomond . " The band numbers end with a guitarist joining the group to show his finesse with finger work on the guitar and the short subject is over . Nothing special , but pleasant while it lasts .
Downbeat drama from F . Scott Fitzgerald novel has MGM gloss . . .	I never read the F . Scott Fitzgerald novel on which this is based , but can only report that ELIZABETH TAYLOR , VAN JOHNSON , DONNA REED and WALTER PIDGEON do nicely in the leads and the film is given a graceful script by screenwriter Julius J . Epstein , author of so many successful film scripts . It's basically a well-crafted soap opera set in a post-war Paris setting ( after the liberation ) but it works on several levels , thanks to some nice performances . ELIZABETH TAYLOR's motivations are somewhat obscure ( she's almost another Zelda from " Tender is the Night " ) but at this stage of her career Elizabeth was having success in some good adult roles and this is one of her better performances from that era . VAN JOHNSON could have used more depth as the would-be novelist turned alcoholic and DONNA REED is sweet and charming as the older sister in a rather colorless role . EVA GABOR and ROGER MOORE stand out in supporting roles . Richard Brooks has directed this in leisurely fashion befitting the sort of tale it is and fans of Taylor and Johnson should certainly be pleased with the final results . Well worth watching .
Atmospheric but flawed Victorian melodrama . . .	' Ivy ' was originally intended to star Olivia de Havilland in the title role until the actress rejected it at the last moment over a contract dispute . Costumes were all ready and Joan Fontaine stepped in for her sister with rather moderate results . Under Sam Wood's direction , Fontaine never makes Ivy seem capable of the evil deeds . In other words , she's an interesting replacement but only partially successful , depending on a coy and flirtatious manner to carry the role . It seems too much a surface portrait of evil but Fontaine manages to be very fetching as a Victorian lady . IVY is a beautiful woman unhappy with her marriage to a weak husband ( Richard Ney ) . To improve her status she seeks the attention of a wealthy man ( Herbert Marshall ) and decides to rid herself of her husband by poisoning him . She also has a lover on the side ( Patric Knowles ) and isn't above framing him for the crime . Fontaine plays the character in a sly and cunning way but never convinces us that her wicked woman is more than a pose . Herbert Marshall - - usually a very fine actor - - but here trapped in a role for which he is too old and has neither the charisma nor the romantic charm the part requires . Other performances in a largely British cast are excellent - - Patric Knowles , Una O'Connor , Lucille Watson , Sir Cedric Hardwicke . Nice settings and interior art direction under the talented hand of William Cameron Menzies . A very effective opening with Ivy going to a fortune-teller ( Una O'Connor ) who sees only too well the future awaiting the heroine . A rather abrupt ending comes as somewhat of a surprise . Summing up : a handsome and atmospheric Victorian melodrama flawed by miscasting , particularly Marshall ( too old for the part ) and Richard Ney , woefully wooden , as the poisoned husband . All the elements are here for suspenseful treatment , but Sam Wood's direction is too tepid and slow-paced to make this anything more than an average Victorian melodrama .
POSSIBLE SPOILERS . . . Some scary moments , but too much is borrowed from other thrillers . . .	Midway through , HIDE AND SEEK starts to lose whatever credibility it may have had . By the time we understand just what's going on , we have to struggle with the fact that it just doesn't make sense . And we do struggle because up until then , it's a pretty scary film , chock full of good , eerie performances from all concerned . Especially good at maintaining the creepiness is Dakota Fanning , a girl who would be perfect for a remake of THE INNOCENTS . She is the main focal point of the whole story and keeps the audience drawn to her frightened , withdrawn girl who has suffered a traumatic experience . Equally effective is Robert DiNiro as the psychologist father who takes his girl to the country , away from the scene of the brutal murder of his wife . His scenes with Dakota are fascinating to watch . But , alas , the viewer has a right to feel cheated by the time revelations are made with nary a clue as to the real Charlie . The script seems to be borrowing heavily from other recent thrillers like SECRET WINDOW , with hardly a trace of a clue that would make sense of the outcome . Those who claim to have guessed the answer early on must be bluffing . Horror fans will find some of it quite riveting . The decor for the house in the country gives the film some choice atmospheric moments and the cinematography is , at all times , very effective . Dakota Fanning gives a memorable performance , but seems to be a girl who ought to be slapped out of her silent state by her father once in awhile instead of being treated so gingerly by the seemingly patient man . Her character has a tendency to become more than slightly annoying at times . And surely , there are those in the audience who will feel cheated by the ending - - and slightly annoyed , as well .
Things get pretty manic after sundown . . .	BEN STILLER is an actor I know mainly from his performance in SOMETHING ABOUT MARY , but I suspect that ADAM SANDLER might have been a more perfect choice to play Larry , the failed inventor who has to prove to his son ( JAKE CHERRY ) that he can hold down a job that won't force them to move once again to ( gasp ! ) Queens . Stiller is OK in the role but never totally engaging enough to carry the film , as he must . There are plenty of other supporting roles , all doing pretty light duty except for ROBIN WILLIAMS who makes an excellent wax version of Teddy Roosevelt and inhabits the role as an actor rather than a flip comedian . And no mistake about it , the premise is a wonderful one , with dioramas and historical figures coming to life at the American Museum of Natural History , all enhanced by some incredible CGI effects that are jaw-droppingly real . Unfortunately , most of the humor involving sight gags and hokey dialog is sophomoric in nature . Nice work by DICK VAN DYKE , MICKEY ROONEY and BILL COBBS as old-timers being forced out of their job by newcomer Stiller , all three with an agenda that is not revealed until midway through the story and makes for a very manic explosion of movement for the finale . RICKY GERVAIS is excellent as the tongue-tied manager at the museum , and RAMI MALEK , OWEN Wilson and STEVE COOGAN are excellent as museum figures come to life . Kids should get a howl out of it and adults will find some pleasure in seeing some of the veteran actors do their thing . Alan Silvestri's busy background score is remarkably effective in capturing the mood as well as the manic moments . Summing up : Worth seeing for the CGI effects alone . You may never look at a museum the same way again .
POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADGripping tale of a psychopathic killer has no ending . . .	I have to give NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN a very mixed review . For the most part , I agree that NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN is a well executed crime drama , patterned somewhat after the much better written FARGO , in which the central character was a female officer . Here , it's a male sheriff ( TOMMY LEE JONES ) given to some armchair psychiatry aimed at trying to understand what makes today's western civilization ( or lack of it ) tick . He gets no answer from the script . Nor do we get a satisfying ending to a story that is full of grim menace supplied by its main character ( JAVIER BARDEM ) who goes around dispensing with almost every member of the supporting cast . Nor do the characters act in a way that makes common sense . This is the main trouble with the script . WOODY HARRELSON , for example , seems to walk meekly to his final destiny with the casual air of a man unalarmed by the situation after warning JOSH BROLIN ( a man on the run ) that he's up against a man who simply wants blood . Likewise , Brolin's wife accepts her fate meekly after stating that she " knew " the killer would show up on her doorstep . It's taut with suspense most of the time with only a few spots that drag , but it's the inconsistencies of certain characters that gave the script some flaws , as well as a general lack of humor which made the dark happenings in FARGO more bearable . The biggest letdown is the dry ending with no justice for the guilty man and Tommy Lee Jones describing a dream that has nothing to do with the events we just witnessed . Period . The End . The very flat ending is the weakest part of all . But the performances of JAVIER BARDEM , TOMMY LEE JONES and especially JOSH BROLIN in a very unusual role for him , make the film eminently worth watching .
Slight comedy of manners badly needs color restoration . . .	This DIVORCE OF LADY X is the sort of film about misunderstandings among the upper crust of society that American audiences usually associate with someone like Norman Krasna , who wrote so many romantic comedies where someone assumed a different identity to keep the mistaken identity theme afloat for the duration of the plot . If I hadn't known better , I would have suspected he had a hand in this screenplay . Here we have an early comedy from the U . K . , courtesy of Alexander Korda , making use of three strip Technicolor - - very low-key color apparently , at least judging from the rather poor Public Domain prints I've seen . LAURENCE OLIVIER plays a barrister whose disdain for women is on a level with Professor Henry Higgins - - he tolerates them until he falls in love with them . The joke here is that he is mistaken about the identity of MERLE OBERON , who gets even with him after finding out how rudely he treats women , by pretending to be the wife of RALPH RICHARDSON . He's hoodwinked by her until the very end when she realizes they share a mutual attraction . It's amusing to watch Olivier and Oberon tackle these lightweight roles only a year before joining forces again for WUTHERING HEIGHTS . He has some very scathing comments to make about the opposite sex and plays his role with gusto . She's a bit more restrained in her role but together they show the kind of chemistry they would also get to display in the William Wyler film the following year . This would have been more watchable if the color wasn't so badly in need of restoration . Summing up : Amusing comedy of manners among British aristocracy .
One of the more agreeable MGM musicals in B & W with Sinatra and Lawford . . .	FRANK SINATRA's voice was in a warm and mellow tone when he did IT HAPPENED IN BROOKLYN and this little musical uses him musically in a nice way . He gets to warble an invigorating ditty as a serviceman joyous to be back in Brooklyn , so he belts out " Brooklyn Bridge " with baritone finesse . It almost sounds like a number out of ON THE TOWN . But it's his mellow rendering of " Time After Time " that brings back memories of how he crooned his way to stardom and became a teen idol in the early ' 40s . Frank is a kind of shy guy here , but gets to loosen up after awhile thanks to the friendship of JIMMY DURANTE as a fellow Brooklynite , a janitor who lets Frank share his apartment until he can find a job . KATHRYN GRAYSON is the pretty girl Sinatra takes up with , both of them with singing aspirations . He even does a " Don Giovanni " duet with Grayson and it's not bad at all . Grayson does a nice solo spot on " The Bell Song " from Lakme and handles her acting chores in a pleasant enough manner . Likewise , even PETER LAWFORD gets to belt out a number for a bunch of record fans in a music store , loosening up to a little ditty called " Whose Baby Are You ? " with a swing beat . Durante and Sinatra have fun on a number called " The Song's Gotta Come from the Heart " and Sinatra is at his best crooning a ballad called " It's the Same Old Dream . " True , it's all rather formula as far as the storyline goes , but it's done in such an unpretentious way that it manages to charm most of the time . GLORIA GRAHAME has a small role at the beginning as a nurse from Brooklyn who doubts whether Sinatra hails from that borough . I can't say much for the direction of Richard Thorpe . It moves at a snail's pace through its running time of one hour and forty-five minutes .
Cagney is pugnacious gangster in his breakthrough role . . . but the film is a relic . . .	Warner Bros . had the market on gangster films in the ' 30s and none is more famous than William Wellman's PUBLIC ENEMY with JAMES CAGNEY in his breakthrough role as the brash street kid from the other side of the tracks circa 1909 . The film has a primitive , early sound kind of look - - with dialog to match . " What'are ya lookin ' for ? A sock on the button ? " But Cagney alone saves it from being just an absurd relic of the past . He very convincingly graduates from being a mere punk to a ripe gangster , along with his brother ( EDWARD WOOD ) . Based on their tough childhood reputations as punks , the two of them become full-fledged hoods in no time at all during Prohibition under the tutelage of a bootlegging pal Paddy Ryan who teaches them how to become big time thugs . It's a gangster film without any profanity ( a la Martin Scorsese's THE DEPARTED ) , but it's punchy enough to get by suggesting the tough guy aura with some colorful slang from Cagney and gang . JOAN BLONDELL has a small role as a good time gal and MAE CLARKE is the woman who gets the grapefruit treatment from Cagney when their romance goes sour . BERYL MERCER has an icky role as Cagney's sentimental , over protective mom . DONALD COOK is rather a sourpuss as Cagney's dour but ethical brother . The dialog is less than stellar . Cagney's pal says to him : " I could go for that dame , " after meeting JEAN HARLOW . Cagney snaps : " You could go for an 80 year-old chick with rheumatism . " Cagney is his usual feisty self but this is nowhere close to his tough gangster in WHITE HEAT . Still , it's an engrossing story even if the dialog is laughably corny at times . JEAN HARLOW has the worst lines to recite . " Oh , Tommy , my boy , my bashful darling . I could love you to death . " Don't expect a masterpiece , but it's worth watching for Cagney alone and a good example of the Warner Bros . flair for gangster films . And that ending is still a stunner even if it is telegraphed .
Disappointing spy story . . . George Segal seems miscast in main role . . .	While it's a ' 60s spy film in the same vein as THE IPCRESS FILE ( the same sort of ingredients ) , it in no way matches the wit or intelligence of that particular espionage film . It moves a little too sluggishly under the direction of Michael Anderson , though it does have a wind-up that proves satisfying at the conclusion . Nor is it overly complicated , often the ruin of many a spy film . But the central performance by GEORGE SEGAL is played with the sort of humor and charm that would have worked better in a different kind of story - - not an espionage film . Segal's job is to find the identity of a Nazi group in post-war Berlin . He works without cover and is soon captured by MAX VON SYDOW and his henchmen who try to pry information from him . Unexplained , he makes his getaway and the movie turns into a spy chase with lots of plot loopholes that are never cleared up . A distinctively inappropriate soundtrack by John Barry is off the mark even during the opening credits . His main theme , " Wednesday's Child " , is nice enough but does nothing to add to what ought to be the suspenseful mood of this kind of thriller . Another shortcoming of the film is that Segal's character never seems bright enough to be involved in clever espionage . For a man on a delicate spy mission , Segal seems too laid back to be believable . Nor is the script by Harold Pinter anything special with less than crisp dialog . ALEC GUINESS manages to be intriguing in a small role but GEORGE SANDERS is completely wasted . SENTA BERGER is lovely as the German schoolteacher who gets involved with Segal , largely due to physical attraction . There's a wistful " Third Man " kind of ending striven for , but it never has the same effect it had in the Carol Reed film . Nor , as I mentioned previously , is John Barry's score more than ordinary - - surprisingly so , since he was capable of wonderful music for the James Bond films . All told , a fairly routine spy story given nothing special in the way of treatment with the overall effect being one of quiet disappointment .
Spirited all black musical from the ' 40s era is still good entertainment . . .	Vincente Minnelli's first film for MGM was CABIN IN THE SKY , from the Broadway musical - - a film that no other studio at the time would take a chance on producing . A splendid cast does justice to it and it's a rollicking good time to watch ETHEL WATERS , EDDIE ' ROCHESTER ' ANDERSON , REX INGRAM , KENNETH SPENCER , Oscar POLK , LENA HORNE and BUTTERFLY McQUEEN have fun with the story and music . Rex Ingram is especially good as the horned Devil wearing black and Kenneth Spencer , using his rich bass baritone voice to good effect , is in excellent shape as The General in white . ( Spencer sang ' Old Man River ' as Joe in SHOW BOAT on Broadway in ' 46 ) . Basically , it's the story of temptation coming between Petunia ( ETHEL WATERS ) and Little Joe ( EDDIE ANDERSON ) and her crusade to win him away from The Devil and away from the temptress Georgia Brown ( LENA HORNE ) . Lena never looked sexier and plays her sultry role for all it's worth . A few of the musical moments don't come off as well as intended , looking rather awkwardly staged , and Waters has a tendency to overplay her role both in the acting and singing segments . LOUIS ARMSTRONG makes a brief appearance on the trumpet and the DUKE WELLINGTON orchestra gets to get the joint swinging with his big number . The HALL JOHNSON CHOIR does some excellent choral work for some stirring background music . What hurts the film is the pace , a bit too slow in developing its theme and the songs , while fine , are not always given the best possible treatment . I seem to remember seeing this in Sepiatone at one time , but the print on TCM is in B & W .
Have to use the word " cute " to describe this one . . .	And that's even though I hate using that adjective to describe any movie , but this one fits the bill perfectly . PAUL DOUGLAS is a temperamental baseball player who makes a deal with a heavenly angel to curb his temper and maybe win a few games with help from above . JANET LEIGH is a girl reporter who eventually falls in love with Douglas ( hey , this is a movie ! ! ) after a rather brief courtship during which both she and Douglas fall in love with little Donna Corcoran . This little girl has one of the sweetest , most angelic faces I've ever seen on a child actress and she's got a sincerity that makes everything she says and does look perfectly natural . The orphanage where the girl is sheltered is run by SPRING BYINGTON , in one of her most unusual roles as a nun who knows baseball , and ELLEN CORBY who does a wistfully sweet job as a beaming assistant to Byington . The baseball flavor gets help from some real footage of Pirate games and some humorous clips of famous people commenting on the angel situation . Among the movie stars , Bing Crosby playing golf . The story is a morality tale done without any special effects gimmicks . I didn't see the remake , but I understand it did use CGI to make more graphic use of the angel element . KEENAN WYNN has the film's only unlikeable role as a sports announcer who's cynical about the little girl's claim that she sees angels in the outfield . Summing up : An amiable comedy , well played by Douglas , Leigh and Corcoran .
Buster and a runaway train during Civil War days . . .	THE GENERAL spends so much time depicting BUSTER KEATON on the rails that it should have been called " The Runaway Train " . Filmed in Oregon , with all of the outdoor scenes photographed attractively in sepia-tone , it's regarded as one of Keaton's best works . His dexterity with physical comedy is never better paraded in a motion picture than it is here . He's climbing aboard the train from every conceivable angle as he tries to block the path of the pursuing Union Army who have stolen " The General " ( his train ) and aims to get the message to the Southern army of the Union plan of attack . It's a lavish production and obviously a lot of attention to detail was spent in giving THE GENERAL Grade-A production values . TCM is showing a pristine print of the film , complete with good background music , courtesy of The Alloy Orchestra . Frankly , I think all the train scenes became a little tedious after the first forty-five minutes with a lot of repetition dulling my interest in the outcome of the story . Summing up : Fans of Keaton will have a field day enjoying his bumbling character and all of his physical feats as he struggles to win the stolen train from the enemy .
WWII submarine story is mixture of supernatural and suspense . . .	Better than average entertainment for a suspense thriller with overtones of supernatural mystery ( the " mirror " scene is especially effective and creepy ) , this is extremely well acted by a competent cast of players . BRUCE GREENWOOD is Capt . Brice , who is forced to take over command of the ship , and who knows more than he's telling about misidentifying a German ship as a British one and what happened to a few of his fellow officers ; MATT DAVIS is the handsome young ensign who tries to get to the bottom of the mysterious things plaguing the submarine ; and OLIVIA WILLIAMS is Claire , one of the survivors of the other ship who conceals the fact that one of her fellow survivors is a German prisoner . There's a claustrophobic feeling at times but the camera-work is excellent in getting in and around the various cabins so that there's never really an idle moment in the fast moving story . Still , the aspects of the story that fail to really come off are the hauntings , including many things that can't be rationally explained but add considerably to the overall spooky atmosphere of the story . It's a major flaw , in addition to some awkward flashbacks that do little to fill the viewer in on the facts of a murky situation involving desperation on the part of Capt . Brice and what really happened to cause his takeover . Well acted , well paced and certainly a lot more worthwhile viewing than a lot of films that got much more marketing publicity than this one .
Another in a long string of " bee " films from Disney . . .	Donald Duck suffers the usual indignities of having to be on guard from bee attack in BEE ON GUARD , an amusing entry in the Donald Duck cartoons of the ' 40s and ' 50s . The bees are on a mission led by a King Bee and decide to land in Donald Duck's garden while he's there doing his gardening chores . Donald knows where the hive is , guarded by a funny looking bee who asks each entrant for a password . Donald is rebuked when he tries to gain entry and comes up with the foolish notion of disguising himself as a bee so the dumb guard will talk to him while he plans to steal the honey . The dumb guard has a voice like " Gus-Gus " from " Cinderella " . He falls asleep after Donald has managed to siphon all the honey from the hives while having chit-chat with him . The bees return , led by the King Bee , and are angry to find the hive emptied . The bee guard is given his walking papers . Fortunately , he traces the theft to Donald's house , gets the goods on Donald and heads back to be treated like a hero by his fellow bees . It's amusing enough , but lacks the style of the early bee pictures with " Buzz-Buzz " as his main enemy . Animation is up to the usual Disney standard .
Amusing monkey business is better than one might think . . .	RONALD REAGAN had his fair share of comedies during his stay at Warner Bros . as a contract player - - but it wasn't until he went to Universal for BEDTIME FOR BONZO that he took so much kidding for appearing in what is actually an amusing comedy co-starring him with a chimp , especially after he became president . However , the film does have a good share of laughs and Reagan acquits himself in professional fashion . What little plot there is hinges on Reagan's determination to raise Bonzo in a loving environment and prove that with nurturing and a sense of family , he can teach the chimp to respect rules and develop a moral sense of behavior . He and pretty Diana Lynn play the mama and papa roles with Diana gradually falling in love - - and Reagan not realizing he's engaged to the wrong gal . It's all very predictable but fun while it lasts , mainly because Bonzo gets to wreck havoc in a number of amusing scenes . It's strictly for laughs and emerges as a harmless trifle in Reagan's career . Best segment is the last part of the film which has Bonzo robbing a jewelry store and then , because of his reformation by Reagan and Lynn , able to obey their command to return the necklace to the store which has everyone mystified as to how he accomplished it . It makes for a good finale - - and so does the romantic happy ending .
Ava Gardner's first film appearance in an MGM short . . .	Interesting to spot AVA GARDNER before her build-up at MGM as a major star , getting to appear fleetingly in a studio short subject subjecting the audience to a quiz in this trifle called FANCY ANSWERS . She's on camera for a couple of brief occasions looking very pretty but it's strictly a bit part with no dialog . The quiz is a Pete Smith Specialty that poses about ten questions and gives the viewing audience ten seconds to answer each one . All the questions are on the silly side - - nothing intellectual here - - such as " Are there more red stripes than white stripes on the American flag ? " and " Is the Zebra a white animal with black stripes or a black animal with white stripes ? " A running joke concerns a musical term about a note called a demi-semi-hemiquaver and whether a Tahitian garment is called a " sarong " or a " pareu " . Not the most original of all the Pete Smith shorts I've seen , strictly a filler that passes time before the feature begins . P . S . By the way , the quiz answers are " more red stripes " and " white with black stripes " for anyone curious enough to care . And " pareu " is the correct answer .
Dysfunctional family saga could have been a stronger film . . .	A disturbingly dysfunctional family is at the heart of TRACK OF THE CAT , which tries to impose symbolic significance on the threat of the creature that is being stalked by the two oldest brothers . But the tale , filmed in monotonous B & W style with only highlights of real color allowed , is somber , tedious and talky . The performances are standard except for Mitchum who does a believable job as the loutish oldest brother . TERESA WRIGHT , DIANA LYNN and TAB HUNTER do fairly standard work , under William A . Wellman's slow-paced direction . It's a stark and brooding story of an isolated farm family living in a remote area and haunted by the symbolic " cat " of the title . Photographed in muted WarnerColor with effective background music by Roy Webb , its somber wintry atmosphere is well captured in the opening scene but becomes tedious before the story reaches a midway point because a real connection with the troubled characters is never really made . All the cast members have done better work elsewhere . It's hard to believe how matronly and severe TERESA WRIGHT became for this role , only a few years beyond her delicate work as a leading lady in many films of the ' 40s . WILLIAM HOPPER is effective as Mitchum's outspoken brother . All the interiors are filmed in a style that seems more like a filmed play than a film . BEULAH BONDI as the embittered mother manages to give some gravitas to the story . ROBERT MITCHUM gives his usual sturdy and colorful performance as the oldest son hellbent on tracking a killer cat . TAB HUNTER as the weakest younger brother has less to work with . A fairly interesting , harsh , character-driven tale that should have been much more effective with better dialog and family dynamics .
Tongue-in-cheek swashbuckler dulled by too much talk . . .	When I was a kid I saw this and thought it was great fun . I especially loved the gorgeous technicolor and Walter Slezak's hammy but enjoyable performance as the villain . Seeing it again recently on TCM , I was not quite as enchanted with the whole thing . It's really much too talky , especially in the early scenes which set up the story - - and Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . , a charming guy , tends to overact enthusiastically to overcome the fact that he is just a wee too old to be playing this kind of role . He leaps about with abandon but is never quite convincing as the daring pirate . Maureen O'Hara was certainly a beautiful woman - - but beyond that , there is little in her performance to admire . She maintains a poised , intelligent look throughout while the camera worships her , but her demeanor gives one the impression that she yearns to be elsewhere rather than being a mere decoration for the Fairbanks heroics . Likewise , lovely Jane Greer is wasted in a brief role as a servant lady . As such , it's up to the more colorful support of Anthony Quinn , Walter Selzak and an amusing bit by Sheldon Leonard - - along with George Tobias as Sinbad's sidekick - - to really give the story some zest and credibility . They almost succeed - - but in the end , it's merely an amusing romp with an unconvincing Sinbad and a rather dull screenplay bogged down by too much talk and little action . The chief compensations are the gorgeously photographed stylized sets bathed in some of the best technicolor of the ' 40s . Summing up : Kids will probably adore the film despite its faults .
A plot full of twists keeps you guessing until the end . . .	But don't ask me to explain the story . I came in on this one just shortly after it started and had a hard time following the heavy-handed plot as it unfolded . All I know is the suspense was terrific , the acting by SIMON BAKER and cast was excellent , and it had me glued to the end to see who the killer would turn out to be . A girl's amnesia is a big part of the proceedings , but cleverly " The Mentalist " gets her to remember key points that her mind is blocking as she struggles to recover from a night of violence , forced to remember things from her hospital bed . Lots of the plotting seems a bit far fetched to be credible but , hey , this is a TV series . For instance , the girl equating the sound of rushing water with a Diesel engine . Clever story is a bit too plot heavy for its own good , but keeps the viewer's interest due to the excellent performances and good direction .
" B " horror material given " A " execution . . .	THE UNDYING MONSTER is a John Brahm film given " A " execution while using " B " material to get its atmospheric effects across . And they are atmospheric , from the opening scene until the last , beautifully photographed in crisp B & W photography by Lucien Ballard . None of the actors rose to the " A " level , but Brahm makes effective use of HEATHER ANGEL as a damsel in distress , JAMES ELLISON as the detective from Scotland Yard ( with a suspiciously American accent ) , and JOHN HOWARD as Angel's rugged mustached brother , looking very much like a Robert Taylor clone . The story about an ancient curse still hovering over a British household has the supernatural overtones of a Sherlock Holmes story like " The Hound of the Baskervilles " , full of Gothic horror that's accented by the artfully designed sets and handsome interiors , some of which look like leftover sets from much more expensive Fox films . Given the chance to direct this melodramatic Gothic mystery , Brahm leaped at the chance to show what he could do with such a story - - and it works on every level despite some talky moments that make the film's middle drag a little with too much exposition . Clever camera angles , expert lighting and well sustained performances from excellent supporting players help considerably . Summing up : About as atmospheric a mystery as you could ask for in the Gothic genre , a richly satisfying little gem that remains largely unknown among even film buffs .
Racy pre-code melodrama drenched in rain and railroads . . .	Director William Wellman certainly had a thing for rain and railroads . Here he has a chance to pit both elements against each other , serving as good background fodder for some romantic nonsense about a trio of pals who wind up in tragic circumstances because one man falls in love with the other man's wife . REGIS TOOMEY is the railroad man who brings his friend GRANT WITHERS home for dinner . Withers and MARY ASTOR renew their acquaintance and fall in love . When Toomey finds out , he goes nuts , ends up fighting Withers and as a result is blinded for life . With a plot this soggy , Wellman adds lots of rain and many train scenes . Somehow it all comes together and the ending is rather touching - - although telegraphed during the bridge scene accident . Astor is sweet , Withers overacts the drunken scenes ( and some tipsy moments with tough talking waitress JOAN BLONDELL ) , and Regis Toomey does what he can with the role of the blinded man . A young JAMES CAGNEY pops up once in awhile in a nothing role before his big break came along . Watchable only for curiosity value . Somewhat lacking as entertainment but given some punch in the final stormy scenes with the train approaching a flooded bridge . Blondell ( badly photographed ) has a classic line at the diner : " APO . Ain't puttin ' out . "
Formula Presley film with interesting fair backgrounds . . .	ELVIS PRESLEY gets to sing several non-memorable songs , the best of which is " One Broken Heart for Sale " , but IT HAPPENED AT THE WORLD'S FAIR is strictly standard Presley stuff wherein the guy has his eye on a pretty gal ( JOAN O'BRIEN ) and makes a pitch , the sort that turns her off at first . Predictably , after a few misunderstandings involving a small girl abandoned at the fair , a happy ending is soon in sight . The music by Leith Stevens is pleasant enough and the fair grounds at the 1962 Seattle World's Fair make colorful backgrounds for the slight story . GARY LOCKWOOD is Elvis ' pilot pal , both of them down on their luck but seeming to spend plenty of money on the fair and decent lodgings . The sub-plot involving both bachelors entrusted with the care of a seven year-old by a complete stranger is more than a little improbable , especially given today's public awareness of children being taken advantage of by adults with criminal behavior . Presley shares some effective scenes with the little girl but has his standard " boy meets girl , boy loses girl , boy wins girl " routine with leading lady O'Brien , a pert blonde who plays a nurse who suspects him of feigning illness as a part of his wolf routine . Naturally , the little girl is responsible for bringing them together again after a few silly misunderstandings keep them apart . Nothing special , but passes the time pleasantly whenever Elvis sings , which is pretty often .
A look at the variety of settings offered by California . . .	A typical James A . FitzPatrick " TravelTalk " illustrates how much variety there is in California , which is why it can be used for so many settings by Hollywood's filmmakers . We glimpse sand dunes stretching across the desert and now traversed by a modern highway ; vineyards as a result of irrigation that produces a large portion of the world's grapes ; date trees that provide sheltering palms ; the City Hall area of Beverly Hills ; Spanish and English architecture ; ranches in open country , especially one owned by Leo Carrillo , Spanish character actor ; and finally a look at Chinatown and its many tourist shops , as well as a Mexican street near the border where we see a man working on vases at a potter's wheel . The brief tour is over before you know it but it does give an indication of the variety of the terrain in California .
A musical feast for the ears . . . semi-successful as biography . . .	SONG OF LOVE is a tastefully romanticized biography of the Schumanns ( Clara and Robert ) , as portrayed by KATHARINE HEPBURN and PAUL HENRIED , in a glossy tribute to their classical music . Their life changes when they take in a boarder / student by the name of Brahms , ROBERT WALKER , who immediately falls in love with Clara . While she makes a successful career as a pianist , her husband is less successful in pursuing his serious work as a composer . The story chronicles the highs and lows of their marriage as they struggle to raise seven or eight children while juggling their professional lives . Whether the romantic angle with Brahms falling deeply in love with Clara is accurate or not , I don't know . I'll have to read more about them to get the full picture , but it makes for an interesting romantic drama with lots of classical music , courtesy of Rubenstein at the piano . An unusual film for Katharine Hepburn , who does beautifully at the keyboard looking as though she's really playing the instrument , as well as Henry Daniell as Franz Liszt who is quite adept at the fingering . Good performances throughout , but I suspect that it's a film for classical music lovers only .
Olivia does a charming turn as hostess for Festival of Spring . . .	This is one episode that I recall watching back in 1965 and it was a very worthwhile " Bell Telephone Hour : Festival of Spring " featuring OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND as the charming hostess for a program of music and dance . This was shortly after de Havilland's two films of that period were released : LADY IN A CAGE and HUSH . . . HUSH , SWEET CHARLOTTE , and she looked very lovely - - the perfect sort of hostess for a musical program celebrating Spring . Among the performers : singers ANITA GILLETTE and DOROTHY COLLINS , EDWARD VILLELLA , PATRICIA MacBRIDE ( both ballet dancers ) and tenor RICHARD TUCKER , all performing with style and grace . Summing up : Pleasant entry in the Bell Telephone Hour series .
Brash show biz musical . . . the good , the bad and the ugly . . .	If it weren't for the fact that Irving Berlin wrote some of the best pop songs of the 20th Century and that ETHEL MERMAN and her co-stars know how to belt them , this would be a dismal mess . The backstage story is one we've seen hundreds of times before , but never on such a grand scale . Furthermore , MARILYN MONROE fans get to see her do two of Berlin's numbers , even though her role seems to have been penciled into the script as an afterthought . Box-office insurance ? Of course . And she does heat up the screen to sizzling effect with her own version of ' HEAT WAVE ' . But it's DONALD O'CONNOR , MITZI GAYNOR and DAN DAILEY who prove once again what troupers they are , totally professional and exuberant in all of the musical numbers . Among the Berlin hits , ' Alexander's Ragtime Band ' gets special attention , sung in a variety of ways for maximum effect . And then we have to contend with the sappy role offered to JOHNNY RAY , the pop singer who jumped to overnight acclaim with his " Little White Clouds That Cry " . Here he plays one of the Donahues who decides that " the church has had a long run " and decides to become a priest . This , of course , is met with protests by his loving mom who shares an excruciatingly sentimental scene with her boy when she finds out . But when the songs come to the fore ( and they often do ) , it's fun to watch these troupers belt out a familiar song-and-dance routine . Only then does the hackneyed plot take a back seat to the otherwise dandy proceedings . This musical can ride on its generous amount of Berlin songs .
Pleasant locales but it's still little more than a travelogue . . .	Time hasn't been kind to certain films and THREE COINS IN THE FOUNTAIN is one of them . The story at its center is trite and only exists in order to show the splendors of Rome in color and CinemaScope to lure patrons away from their television sets when the film was made , in the mid-'50s . The only performers emerging from the film unscathed are JEAN PETERS , gorgeous as a secretary looking for romance away from the office , and the two men who are in their physical prime and give the film's most ingratiating performances - - ROSSANO BRAZZI and LOUIS JOURDAN , both being the prototypes of the sort of European men American women find so attractive . DOROTHY McGUIRE is saddled with the role of a spinster ( of 38 ) whose object of affection is CLIFTON WEBB ( mid-'60s ) who seems an odd choice for any woman and tries hard to be his usual urbane self . Nor is MAGGIE MacNAMARA any help as a conniving American girl who diligently learns the likes and dislikes of the man ( Jourdan ) she plans to trap into marriage . Miss MacNamara too often seems more annoying than charming . But it's harmless fluff , nicely staged in real Italian locales so that there's something to look at when things get dull - - as they often do . Surprisingly , the film - - which gets off to a nice start with a rendition of the title song by Frank Sinatra - - was nominated for a Best Picture Oscar . Summing up : No surprises here , just a dull story that gets an occasional lift from the romance between Peters and Brazzi which is the best , but briefest , part of the whole film . As a story , it's all too familiar by now but Jean Negulesco manages to combine story and scenery with a fluid touch , disguising the fact that it's little more than a pleasant travelogue .
The " innocent man on the run " theme gets quite a workout from Hitchcock . . .	While I'm not as enthusiastic about this Hitchcock film as some of the others here , I do appreciate the chemistry between ROBERT DONAT ( as the man on the run ) and his reluctant , but charming , partner who shares the handcuffs with rightful indignation , MADELEINE CARROLL . Both were still in their prime and make an interesting duo . However , it's the kind of story that we've seen countless times since - - and even Hitchcock himself has repeated it with stories like NORTH BY NORTHWEST or SABATEUR . Furthermore , my favorite man on the run stories were THIS GUN FOR HIRE ( with Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake ) and MINISTRY OF FEAR ( with Ray Milland on the run the moment he steps outside of an asylum into an even crazier world ) . Nevertheless , as the story progresses from an entertaining opening at a British Music Hall and the spy theme is quickly developed , which leads to the chase that occupies most of the film , it's clear that Hitchcock is in his element . He himself had an absolute fear of authorities such as the police and it's clear from the clever camera-work and point of view of the film's leading character that he is able to transmit this fear and loathing to the viewer . Summing up : Not the best of Hitchcock and it's absolutely necessary to view this one in a good print . Many of the public domain copies are hard to watch and liable to alienate you from the film's gripping suspense .
Newspaper reporter vs . socialite in Frank Capra style . . .	Probably the main reason PLATINUM BLONDE stands head and shoulders above most screwball comedies of the ' 30s is the fact that ROBERT ANDERSON gives an eccentric performance as the male lead that is both charming and irritating - - but ultimately , very entertaining . He's the main reason to stay tuned . And that's really saying something when JEAN HARLOW and LORETTA YOUNG have the leading femme roles . But it's Anderson who puts a little extra something into his role as a brash newspaper reporter ( the kind of role Clark Gable would later excel in ) who sets his sights on marrying a rich society gal ( JEAN HARLOW ) only to find that he's really been in love with his newspaper pal ( LORETTA YOUNG ) all the time . The predictable ending is still charming , winding up with a scene where Anderson realizes Young is the lady truly worthy of his love . And LORETTA YOUNG , at 18 , is a vision of beauty in this film . Harlow too is attractive but actually the femme roles should have been reversed , because Loretta could never pass in a newsroom as " one of the boys . " It's got a lot of pre-code words and phrases that you wouldn't expect to hear and there's a good supporting cast to keep everything flowing smoothly under Frank Capra's direction . Summing up : Well worth watching for the three stars . Too bad that Anderson met an untimely early death shortly after the film was completed or he would have had a bright future on the screen .
Promotional film to create interest in the feature film . . .	Warner Bros . spent such a lavish budget on their production of Shakespeare's A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM that they went all out to market it to audiences not accustomed to viewing anything quite so literary , especially from the studio that featured mostly crime melodramas with stars like Cagney and Edward G . Robinson . So they created a short movie that would acquaint movie-goers with cast members of the film talking briefly about their participation . Among the cast members : JAMES CAGNEY , DICK POWELL , OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND , MICKEY ROONEY , ARTHUR TREACHER , VICTOR JORY , ANITA LOUISE and many other contract players . There's a certain old-fashioned charm to this style of promoting a film and it's certainly interesting to see these actors talking about their roles and their high expectations for the film's success . Apparently it worked . While not a great financial success , the film did win some critical approval and ended up with an Oscar nomination for Best Picture . Warners did the same thing the following year with ANTHONY ADVERSE , again presenting a promotional feature that had the various actors / actresses talking about their roles in the film .
Mechanical service yarn with occasional flashes of interest . . .	ROCK HUDSON is a Strategic Air Command colonel who pushes his men to the limits and neglects his British wife ( MARY PEACH ) while alienating his colleague ( ROD TAYLOR ) whom he thinks is getting too chummy with the men under his command . There's nothing about this service yarn to distinguish it from other such efforts , as STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND ( with James Stewart / June Allyson ) or ABOVE AND BEYOND ( Robert Taylor / Eleanor Parker ) . The romantic interest is dull and Rock Hudson's character is never made too plausible . He starts out as an amiable instructor but switches gear without sufficient character explanation . A broken fuel line provides some tension at the 45-minute point in the film where Hudson and crew have to make a safe landing without an electrical spark from the landing gear causing a fire . Beyond that , the dramatic tension for the first hour is limp and the story is slow and mechanical . With the main focus on Readiness Alert , it's still a timely service film hampered by a bad performance from leading lady Mary Peach , an American looking gal with a heavy British accent . Chemistry between Peach and Rock Hudson is practically non-existent . Fortunately , ROD TAYLOR is fine in a co-starring role and BARRY SULLIVAN sympathetic as a man whose drinking problem gets him booted out by Hudson who says he's " not running a rehabilitation center " . He shocks his wife with Sullivan's dismissal and his brusque behavior begins a strain in the marriage . With Hudson dismissing Taylor from command , the story loses steam before the final Operation Readiness Alert goes into action with Taylor subbing for absent Hudson and eventually redeeming himself in Hudson's eyes in time for a happy ending . Supposedly a tribute to the Officers , airmen and wives of the Strategic Air Command , it should be of above average interest to those service personnel but of limited interest for the average movie-goer in search of strong entertainment .
Laurel & Hardy in an amusing series of mishaps . . .	The first half of BLOCK-HEADS contains the most amusing skits in the feature that runs just a little short of one hour and seems like a series of farcical sketches that become a little too hectic toward the last twenty minutes . But fans of LAUREL & HARDY probably won't really mind since it's good slapstick fun . The most amusing idea has STAN LAUREL still keeping watch in the trenches during World War I and shooting at a German plane until the pilot ( who lands safely nearby ) explains to him that the war has been over since 1918 . When Stan is reunited with his friend OLIVER HARDY at a veteran's home , he's sitting in an unoccupied wheelchair and Oliver thinks he's a vet with a missing leg . It's one of the funniest sections of the film , that has Oliver carrying him , getting dumped on by a dumpster , and taking all sorts of pratfalls as the routine winds on . Later , at Hardy's home , the slapstick gets even wilder but not necessarily funnier . Too many staged arguments with his wife ( MINNA GOMBELL ) lead to the sort of shouting matches that can become tiresome after awhile . But through it all , STAN LAUREL has some good comic moments as friend Oliver gets in trouble with the lady next door and her jealous husband ( BILLY GILBERT ) . The gags are fast and furious in typical slapstick tradition and it's a fast-moving comedy that should satisfy fans of the duo . Gilbert is a joy to watch as the jealous hubby , easily stealing scenes with his caricature of the man across the hall from Hardy . Summing up : Delightful mixture of gags and slapstick situations in the Hal Roach tradition .
Fascinating as a drama and a musical . . .	KIRK DOUGLAS , LAUREN BACALL and DORIS DAY are an interesting trio to watch in this film directed by Michael Curtiz , with some jazz trumpet work by Harry James filling the soundtrack . Musicians seem to have hard luck lives that cry to be told on the screen ( or in novels , as this one was ) . Douglas is a trumpet player almost too talented for his own good whose temperamental outbursts are not unlike the actor's own private life actions . He plays the role knowing full well how to show larger than life tantrums . He has some larger than life love interest too - - in a rich , neurotic girl who is jealous of his love for the trumpet , played luxuriously by a purring and sultry LAUREN BACALL , and a fresh-faced singer who does some marvelous vocals as a band singer , DORIS DAY . The stark contrast between the two female leads adds to the story's interest and both actresses do some of their best work here . Day really knows how to put over a song standard with great phrasing and beautiful timing . Enjoyable as both drama and musical , YOUNG MAN WITH A HORN is a sort of rags to riches story of a complex man with a tortured soul who finally gets away from the grips of despair and ends up with the girl who stood loyally by him through all his ups and downs . It's nothing deep , but it is certainly absorbing and well played .
Flag waving during more innocent times . . . great Cagney performance . . .	Times have certainly changed since the jingoism of YANKEE DOODLE DANDY with its up front flag waving and fireworks celebration of the American way of life . Of course , this is just the tonic war weary audiences needed back in 1942 and Warner Bros . , never a studio to miss filming a bio of famous personalities ( however inaccurately ) , couldn't resist . JAMES CAGNEY shines as George M . Cohan , doing his buck and wing dance steps with consummate ease , his jaunty manner extending to all of his dialog too . Naturally , the story of Cohan's rise to show biz fame with his mother , father and sister making a vaudeville act , has been fictionalized to the point that we don't really know whether he was quite as peachy a fellow as he's made out to be . Rumors have it that he was a stubborn , mean-spirited cuss on occasion - - but , hey , this is a musical and Warner Bros . knew they had a solid gold triumph on their hands , with Michael Curtiz directing and the George M . Cohan songs for extra insurance . There are plenty of delightful moments , along with some pretty corny and sentimental nonsense dreamed up by the scriptwriters , but there's an infectious air about all the song and dance numbers that make the musical moments count the most . WALTER HUSTON as dad , ROSEMARY DeCAMP as mom and Cagney's real-life sister JEANNE CAGNEY , all of them turn in inspired performances . JOAN LESLIE makes quite an impression as Cagney's lovely wife . It's a Fourth of July kind of musical , but audiences loved it then and still do now , thanks to the marvelous Oscar-winning performance by Cagney . Nostalgic and well worth viewing for its old-fashioned charm .
The fangs are out and there's plenty of gore . . .	Not bad at all , after a very slow start in which suspense seemed to be just around the corner as various players went stalking around a creepy old mansion . I thought that this would turn out to be the teaser kind of suspense where you wait for something terrifying to happen and it never does . But then the movie gets off to a better start with the entrance of the cousin from England , Barnabas Collins ( JONATHAN FRID repeating his famous TV role ) . The film has a distinctly 1970s flavor to it in costuming and hair styles but is stylishly photographed with some stunning photography and plenty of Gothic atmosphere as a background for the dire doings . I have yet to see any episode of DARK SHADOWS where JOAN BENNETT had very much to do except lend her regal presence for a couple of scenes and this film version is no exception . She appears from time to time just long enough to warrant a couple of close-ups and then disappears from the plot for long periods of time . But that's not much of a handicap in this case because JONATHAN FRID , GRAYSON HALL ( as a doctor who wants to give him a new life as a normal man who can thrive in daylight ) and NANCY BARRETT as Carolyn ( who becomes an ethereal vampire ) , as well as others in the large cast , do a fine job of maintaining the suspense and horror up until the last moment . The bloodletting is pretty horrific at times but anyone who loves vampire films is not likely to be upset by the realism . All in all , a surprisingly good horror flick taken from the very successful TV soap opera with enough fright scenes to satisfy any fan of this genre . Directed by Dan Curtis who would go on to do a fine job directing THE WINDS OF WAR and WAR AND REMEMBRANCE for TV .
Colorful courtroom comedy is a bit overlong but still manages to please . . .	MY COUSIN VINNY is the kind of comedy that makes its point pretty early on when it's apparently going to be a battle of wits between a fast talking New York lawyer ( JOE PESCI , who only passed his bar exam after six tries ) who finds himself embroiled in the Alabama court system and a stern and uncompromising Judge Waller ( FRED GWYNNE ) who takes an instant dislike to his lack of courtroom decorum . The brash Vinny comes to Alabama to help his nephew and his friend , innocents accused of a convenience store murder who seek his help as a last resort . Vinny's equally brash and foul-mouthed girlfriend MARISA TOMEI is along for the ride and turns out to be the saving point of the trial when she exhibits a knowledge of automobile engineering that's hidden by her crude behavior and comes as a real surprise in the amusing and cleverly written courtroom windup . JOE PESCI is excellent as the lawyer who antagonizes the judge so much that he has him jailed twice during preliminary hearings . FRED GWYNNE does a masterful job as the disbelieving judge trying to get the lowdown on this clown in his courtroom . And MARISA TOMEI is priceless as the loyal girlfriend who pleads all along to be helpful to Vinny because she knows that his knowledge of the law is extremely limited . When she finally gets her chance to shine , she walks off with the film and it's easy to see why she copped a Best Supporting Role Oscar for her work here . The other supporting standout is the job done by RALPH MACCHIO as Bill , the nephew who sends for Vinny and then has second thoughts about maybe using a public defender . MITCHELL WHITFIELD as his friend Stan , accused of being an accomplice to murder , is also excellent . Enjoyable nonsense all the way through , never much of a lull except for a weak sub-plot involving a bully who stiffed Vinny's girlfriend for $200 . It's unnecessary in a film that runs two hours instead of a breezy ninety minutes but the film only occasionally gets sidetracked and it never runs out of steam .
A student prince falls in love with a lowly barmaid . . .	THE STUDENT PRINCE should have been a lot better . After all , it's based on a famous operetta with music by Sigmund Romberg , features the golden voice of Mario Lanza at his singing peak , is cast with competent enough MGM players , and is filmed in glorious Technicolor . But something happened - - the uninspired Richard Thorpe was chosen to direct ( Vincente Minnelli , where were you ? ? ? ) and the result is a tedious , slow-paced musical with stagebound sets and much of the Romberg score either missing or drastically altered with the insertion of two new songs ( which , by the way , aren't bad at all ) . One of them , BELOVED , is sung with great feeling and style by Mario . Lanza was at a difficult stage of his career by the time THE STUDENT PRINCE was set to roll , and his temperament and weight problems made it impossible for the studio to let him play the lead , even after he'd recorded all of the songs . EDMUND PURDOM , a relatively unknown newcomer , was given the chance to step in and , in all fairness to Purdom , it must be said that he does a commendable enough job in the acting department and does the lip-sync thing with professional results ( he's right up there with Larry Parks in that department ! ) ANN BLYTH , never a particular favorite of mine , does her own singing with a pleasant soprano voice but is less than satisfying as the barmaid . She looks much too sophisticated and stylish for her lowly status to be believable and is rather arch and patronizing in her attitudes . The rest of the cast isn't handed the best of material but they do workmanlike jobs with it : EDMUND GWENN , LOUIS CALHERN , JOHN ERICSON , S . Z . SAKALL and EVELYN ARDEN - - but the extensive faults lie with the limp direction unable to give any luster to the proceedings . And the soundstage look for outdoor scenes doesn't help . Worth hearing ( if not watching ) for Lanza alone on some delightful Romberg songs . His soundtrack recording of the music was a big seller and it's easy to understand why .
One of the more amusing entries in the series . . .	Although the slapstick is pretty heavy at times , especially toward the wild climactic scene that winds up the whole story , WHISTLING IN DIXIE has all the ingredients that made the Bob Hope films successful in the ' 40s , with Hope as the cowardly male lead being intimidated by gangster-type bullies . Here it's RED SKELTON who seems to have inherited Hope's gag writers , because all of the jokes could just as well have been hand-me-downs from Hope during his heyday . Skelton plays " The Fox " , a radio sleuth who solves impossible crimes , and is lured to Georgia by his girlfriend when one of her friends is in a dire situation requiring the kind of help " The Fox " can offer . Lots of fun ensues when Skelton arrives at a spooky Georgian mansion , and some of the sight gags involving RAGS RAGLAND ( in a twin role - - one good , one bad ) , are quite funny although they tend to be overdone by the time the last reel is reached . ANN RUTHERFORD has a flair for light comedy that makes her a good mate for Skelton and the rest of the cast goes along with the gags and pratfalls in a professional manner . DIANA LEWIS lays on the Southern accent a little too thick , but this is probably for comedy effect . GEORGE BANCROFT , GUY KIBBEE and PETER WHITNEY have fun with good supporting roles . Summing up : Good fun , if you like these sort of slapstick murder mysteries .
Oddly interesting for offbeat teaming of Temple and Reagan . . .	TV showings of ' That Hagen Girl ' became more and more rare as the years went on - - but lately it surfaced on TCM when they saluted Shirley's birthday with showings of four of her films . Basically it's a story of the effect gossip has on a small-town girl ( Temple as Mary Hagen ) and lawyer ( Ronald Reagan ) . Good performances by Rory Calhoun , Jean Porter and others . The meanness of the small-town gossip is well realized under Peter Godfrey's direction and the background score by Franz Waxman adds much to the melodramatic proceedings . Not really as bad as many would have you think . Shirley seems more poised and assured than usual ( except in an embarrassing rendition from ' Romeo and Juliet ' ) and she herself regards it as her best adult performance . Despite all of its flaws , it's worth viewing to watch the nineteen-year old actress opposite Ronald Reagan . His primary love interest in the film is Lois Maxwell ( who later became Miss Moneypenny in the James Bond films ) . The ending is rather unresolved and unsatisfying - - a curious ending for an odd film .
Fast moving farce gets a lift from Eddie Albert . . .	EDDIE ALBERT plays a hapless Virginia Military Institute cadet who gets into all kinds of scrapes because of his brash friend , WAYNE MORRIS , an actor Warner Bros . was grooming for stardom . Albert is so professional that he's a pleasure to watch as he goes from one zany situation after another accompanied by Morris and Reagan . Way down in the cast credits are JANE WYMAN and RONALD REAGAN , still up-and-coming future stars developing a light touch for comedy . PRISCILLA LANE and JANE BRYAN play the other two gals who get entangled in all the farcical situations involving the cadets . It's typical broad comedy material from a successful stage play with Albert repeating his Broadway stage role and showing what a fine comedian he could be , his genial personality supplying most of the laughs . WAYNE MORRIS is a bit strident as the top-billed lead , but PRISCILLA LANE does a nice job as his wholesome girl friend . It's strictly fluff , ' 30s style , and passes the time without being anything you're likely to remember too fondly unless you love this type of screwball comedy directed by William Keighley .
Nimble variation on the " Home Alone " theme . . .	When all is said and done ( and all the laughs have been had ) , it's easy to come to the conclusion that BABY'S DAY OUT should have been a Walt Disney cartoon . Cartoon-like is the only way to explain the various blows the villains take ( or dodge ) during their attempts to get their kidnapping scheme to work . Their pratfalls become the stuff of legend once the movie reaches its climactic scene at a construction site where every imaginable pitfall is exposed - - but always with Baby Bink emerging unscathed while the villains suffer their comic fate . It's the sort of film that must have looked good on paper , but in executing it there's no way to make any of it believable , at least for adults . Children will probably have a good time laughing at all of the pratfalls and near escapes that the baby has without being trampled on by cars or people . It's amusing enough and works as a comedy of errors . The villains are played skillfully by Joe Mantegna and Joe Pantoliano and the baby is priceless in all of his scene-stealing glory . Everyone else is more like a blank slate whenever the action returns to parental moments . Good for a few laughs , despite all the cartoon-like improbabilities .
Dave O'Brien shines as Mr . Hardnose . . .	I love these Pete Smith Specialties , mainly because you can always depend on DAVE O'BRIEN to give 100 % to his performance , whether it be shaving in the morning before he's completely awake or taking one of his numerous pratfalls . This time it's the wife ( DOROTHY SHORT ) who gets the spotlight as the lady of the house who wants hubby to take her to the movies after dinner . She calls him up at work and he rejects the idea because he'll be too tired by evening . He exclaims , " After all , what have you done all day ? " We then see a series of montages showing the little wife cleaning house , taking care of the baby girl , pushing furniture around , and literally knocking herself out on the daily chores . When hubby gets home and still refuses to budge from his favorite chair , you can guess what happens next . Summing up : Just plain fun .
Sluggish account of the Little Big Horn disaster . . .	SITTING BULL is a sluggish western about a cavalry major ( DALE ROBERTSON ) who is compassionate toward the Indians and must face insubordination for some of his actions against harsh superior officers . There's a traditional romance thrown into the mix , between a General's daughter ( MARY MURPHY ) and Robertson , with rival suitor WILLIAM HOPPER as another man interested in Murphy . J . CARROL NAISH is Chief Sitting Bull , who wants peace and refuses to put on his war paint although some members of his tribe are anxious to fight some of the white men's injustices . DOUGLAS KENNEDY is flamboyant and seriously miscast as the yellow-haired General Custer of the 7th Cavalry . It's handsomely produced in outdoor settings that look authentic , but the stilted dialog is handled indifferently by a lackluster cast of players . DALE ROBERTSON gives a leaden performance in the major role and he doesn't get much help from WILLIAM HOPPER or MARY MURPHY , who in real life , married Robertson after this film . Their chemistry on film fails to register and her motivations throughout are sketchy , to say the least . A major plot development has President Grant helping Robertson when he is condemned for helping Chief Sitting Bull and there are a few other subplots before we get to the battle at Little Big Horn . Robertson's compassion for the redskins almost lands him in big trouble toward the end , until Chief Sitting Bull intercedes just before he's about to be executed for treason by a firing squad . Good western should have been much better but is marred by dull performances and uninspired direction of Sidney Salkow . The director unwisely allowed few close-ups of his cast throughout the film , depending solely on medium shots for most of the scenes , probably because he was new at the CinemaScope process . Since most of the cast underacts considerably , this is a real drawback in the more intimate moments .
Delightfully restored on TCM , one of Marion Davies ' best comedies . . .	The good news is that even the title cards have a wit and humor that is carried over beautifully onto film under Fatty Arbuckle's direction for THE RED MILL , based loosely on a Victor Herbert operetta . Quaint is a good word to describe the costumes and settings of the Dutch tale , which opens with a charming ice skating sequence that is played for laughs and largely succeeds because of the clever acting of MARION DAVIES and OWEN MOORE . The tale that follows is a case of mistaken identity , with Moore confusing Davies with the burgonmaster's daughter LOUISE FAZENDA , who is engaged in a comical relationship with someone else . Davies has never been better at establishing herself as a comedienne from the start , given lots of bits of business ( on and off the ice ) , including the stay in a haunted mill that occupies that last fifteen minutes of the story and is a good mixture of laughter and fright . Technically , the film looks great with TCM's restoration and a bouncy score that accompanies rather than distracts ( as some of the new scores do ) . Very worthwhile Marion Davies vehicle shows that she did indeed have promise as more than Hearst's favorite protégé . Trivia note : The sets and costumes cry out for early Technicolor but only the night scenes are shaded a blue tint .
Cliché-ridden Gothic suspense gets atmospheric workout . . .	The wind rages , bells chime , lightning flashes , shadows flit everywhere , and Franz Waxman's background score gives a shot in the arm to the gloomy melodramatic proceedings . Unfortunately , the script never gives HUMPHREY BOGART and BARBARA STANWYCK enough strong material to work with , although they both do professional jobs . Warner Bros . always knew how to give lots of atmosphere to Gothic tales ( THE UNSUSPECTED , CRY WOLF ) and this is no exception . The trouble is the stage play this was based on has about every cliché one could wish for in a story of this sort . . . the suspicious wife , the poisoned glass of milk , the stern housekeeper , the windows that never stop rattling . If you stay with it , the last twenty minutes give you some satisfying moments of suspense and some tense moments for the victimized wife . Bogart and Stanwyck make an interesting team and it's a shame the script couldn't afford them better opportunities to show their talent . As it is , Bogart does well enough with a crazed glint in his eyes and a feverish mopping of his brow , while Stanwyck builds to hysteria about as well as any actress is able to do . She looks so glamorous throughout that's it hard to see why Bogart is so anxious to ditch her for another woman , played with icy charm by ALEXIS SMITH . Certainly not worth going out of your way to see , but Bogart and Stanwyck fans should at least get some satisfaction of seeing them get melodramatic with each other in those final scenes . Little ANN CARTER , with her uncanny adult poise in a child's body , is almost a dead ringer for Patty McCormack who went on to play the malignant child in THE BAD SEED . Carter seemed a talented child , but whatever happened to her ?
Morale boosting war film is solid entertainment much needed during WWII . . .	Whatever its flaws - - stereotypes among soldiers , wartime propaganda using the Wake Island battle as symbolic of America's fight for freedom , weak comic relief - - WAKE ISLAND is the kind of story Americans needed to hear during the height of WWII . It begins just before the Pearl Harbor attack when the men were losing their morale to fight against the Japs , then changes once American ships and servicemen are attacked in sneaky fashion at Pearl , to become a story of fighting men who want to avenge what F . D . R . called " a day of infamy " . Forcefully directed by John Farrow , it's a gritty , realistic war drama given occasional relief by ROBERT PRESTON and WILLIAM BENDIX as a pair of squabbling soldiers arguing over re-enlistment . BRIAN DONLEVY plays Maj . Caton with steely-eyed determination and a large male cast of upcoming actors and future stars fills the supporting cast : ALBERT DEKKER , MADONALD CAREY , ROD CAMERON , WALTER ABEL , DANE CLARK , PHILIP TERRY and FRANK FAYLEN . Similar in content to BATAAN , which also told of American losses against overwhelming odds and had a downbeat ending , the true story of Wake Island is even more downbeat than the film hints . Brutal stories of torture at the hands of Japanese military awaited many who survived the assault on the small island in the Pacific . But that's something you can learn about at The History Channel . Summing up : A reminder of what sort of films Americans were looking at during the height of WWII - - you have to view it in that context .
More stars than there are in heaven . . .	This is strictly a promotional musical piece for MGM's cluster of stars under contract to the studio during the studio contract system in the ' 40s . It starts off with Judy Garland singing , " We Must Have Music , " from one of her many musicals at MGM , then goes on to show very brief clips from similar films produced by the studio . Contrary to another comment at this site , there is no mention whatsoever of Deanna Durbin ( who was under contract to Universal at this time ) . There is an opera singer by the name of Rise Stevens who did " The Chocolate Soldier " with Nelson Eddy , but nowhere can you spot Deanna . The impressive MGM lineup of stars goes on to show close-ups of all the studio's favorites , except for Lassie . Movie fans can feast their eyes on Lana Turner , Robert Taylor , Greta Garbo , Ruth Hussey , Laraine Day , Hedy Lamarr , Kathryn Grayson , Spencer Tracy , Clark Gable and lots of others . Strictly for fans of MGM musicals , it does give brief credit to all the composers at the studio and the films they worked on . There's an interesting segment showing how rehearsals were done under Busby Berkeley for one of the Garland / Rooney production numbers called " Hoe-Down . "
Formula Thin Man stuff is still witty and sophisticated . . .	Although I was never a big fan of the Thin Man films the way so many were , I have to admit that Loy and Powell carry the film with abundant charm , whether sober or drunk ( or just feeling high as they line up the drinks ) , but apparently its pat formula was so successful that it was repeated in film after film , so much so that it's hard to tell the other " Thin Man " titles apart . For a film that was shot in eleven days on a modest budget , it certainly did well at the box-office and ensured that there would be many more Nick and Nora adventures to follow . All the successful ingredients are here - - a cast of suspicious characters , each with a motive , and an assembly of first rate talent to support the shenanigans of Loy and Powell - - MAUREEN O'SULLIVAN ( as the daughter of the missing inventor ) , NAT PENDLETON ( as a detective ) , CESAR ROMERO ( as a playboy ) , EDWARD ELLIS , blonde MINNA GOMBELL ( years later , a nurse in " The Snake Pit " ) , and PORTER HALL . As usual , the comedic elements are stressed more than the mystery about the disappearance of a well-known inventor , but fans of the series probably preferred it that way due to the deft sophistication and debonair wit of one of the screen's most classic couples .
John Payne before stardom in a Warner Technicolor short . . .	Left-over sets from THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD and THE PRIVATE LIVES OF ELIZABETH AND ESSEX are used extensively for this lavish Technicolor short in sumptuous color . Obviously , Warner Bros . had spent so much on all the costumes and sets for those films that they put them to use in this short subject featuring JOHN PAYNE in one of his earliest singing roles . ( He later joined Alice Faye at Fox in a series of musicals , years before A MIRACLE ON 34th STREET ) . SCOTTY BECKETT , who played the son of many a Warner star during his childhood , plays the King of a small European country who is dazzled by American cowboys and is delighted when the rodeo comes to the village with JOHN PAYNE , LUCILLE FAIRBANKS and CLIFF EDWARDS in the spotlight . Beckett is abducted by a Regent who wants to become the king but saved , of course , by his cowboy hero Payne . Payne and the cast do a few musical numbers , including a jaunty ditty called " In the Good Old American Way " , and with the young king returned to the throne there's a happy ending for everyone . Produced on what looks like a major budget , the color is excellent and the familiar sets look better than ever .
Slowly paced social drama and early film noir from Lang . . .	What hurts " M " most of all is the pace . It's almost as though the new transition from silent to sound film had not yet given filmmakers enough time to polish their work . Fritz Lang directs some scenes in " M " with the full force of the sound technique - - namely , the scenes where the criminals and police are both telling us why they want to capture the serial killer of little girls . Then , there's an abrupt switch to silent technique as we follow the man on his rounds ( PETER LORRE ) and watch as he finds a hideout that drags much of the last part of the film out beyond necessity . A taut filming of this story , with the same clever use of shadows and atmospheric effects , and perhaps some menacing background music on the soundtrack , would have made " M " a much more efficient thriller . A smoother technique of telling both a heist tale , the hunt for a serial killer and an ending loaded with social commentary on the workings of a sick mind , require much more than Fritz Lang was able to deliver within the confines of a film that is part silent and part talkie in technique . PETER LORRE plays the killer with his usual wide-eyed look of terror ( the deer in the headlights look that he perfected over and over again in other films ) , but there are times when a little restraint in his performance might have helped . The melodramatic ending where he faces a jury of his peers would have been more effective if the final scene was not cut so abruptly for " The End " title . Having robed judges entering a courtroom without rendering a verdict is hardly a satisfying conclusion to this sort of crime and punishment tale . The abruptness makes me think something was cut from the version I saw . The print shown on TCM was in fine form and the cinematography was exceptional considering when the film was made .
Light-hearted WWII romp is entertaining action film . . .	What films like DESPERATE JOURNEY did for WWII audiences at the time of release , KELLY'S HEROES did for audiences in 1970 in showing the humor and banter of men in trying wartime circumstances determined to carry out a certain mission . Here the mission is the heist of gold behind enemy lines - - something Kelly inadvertently finds out about before deciding that his troopers will carry out the scheme right under the noses of the Nazis . It's all in fun , and some of it is even funnier considering that hippies didn't exist in the ' 40s so that the flavorsome performance of DONALD SUTHERLAND as Sgt . Oddball is really an anachronism . His quips are strictly from the ' 70s but his contribution is so full of laughs that it's easily forgiven in the spirit of enjoying a war story that doesn't take itself seriously in the first place . All the men seem to be having a great time - - including CLINT EASTWOOD , TELLY SAVALAS , CARROL O'CONNOR , DONALD SUTHERLAND , RICHARD DAVALOS , GAVIN MacLEOD , HARRY DEAN STANTON and DON RICKLES . Summing up : Just the right brew for a lighter look at wartime escapades !
Interesting variation on the " Svengali " theme . . . good John Barrymore performance . . .	In this interesting variation on the " Svengali " theme , JOHN BARRYMORE plays a crippled puppeteer with a club foot , who lives vicariously his dream of becoming a great dancer when he assumes responsibility for a runaway boy ( FRANKIE DARRO ) escaping the clutches of his cruel father ( BORIS KARLOFF ) , well disguised with a thick Russian accent and wig that practically makes his features invisible . Michael Curtiz has directed with enormous help from Anton Grot's well designed sets and a generous use of background music at a time when it was rare for most films to feature so much music on the soundtrack . Of course , dealing with theatrical productions , this was totally necessary . In many ways , the film is way ahead of its time . Not only are the sets on a grand scale , but the B & W photography is richly detailed and Barrymore gives one of his most intense performances as the Svengali-like puppet master who finds he can't control his discovery once love enters the picture . Doll-faced MARIAN MARSH makes a lovely sort of " Trilby " character but DONALD COOK looks a bit uncomfortable in the role of Fedor , the dancer . The story is a little cumbersome in getting started , but once the plot starts spinning into high gear the suspense mounts and Curtiz stages all of the scenes involving theatrical productions in a manner that puts the film into the A-film category . Worth seeing for Barrymore's fascinating performance , Russian accent and all , and remarkable in that " the talkies " were only four years old when the film was made and the technical advances are obvious .
When boredom in the U . S . Army careens out of control . . .	JOAQUIN PHOENIX stars in this independent feature that was denied distribution in the U . S . shortly after happened since it's a rather anti-military look at shenanigans among enlisted men at a U . S . Army camp in the peacetime Germany of 1989 . Phoenix is an army corporal involved in a lot heavier black market stuff than Sgt . Bilko ever was , and to call this a comedy is rather a stretch , although there are patches of dark humor in what some here are calling a black comedy . The comedy is strictly in some of the situations which get totally out of control when boredom sets in and the soldiers get drunk while on duty during maneuvers with a tank . The first half has some amusing incidents but once the new top Sgt . Lee takes over from the clueless Col . Berman , things take a darker turn . It seems the corporal has been deliberately tweaking Sgt . Lee by dating Lee's daughter right under his nose . This is where the film changes course as Lee decides to wreak revenge on the corporal in the most humiliating ways , even ordering a daybreak target practice to destroy the corporal's luxurious car . It's the heroin operation that seems really contrived with all sorts of mayhem breaking out when various factions are pitted against each other . A blazing fireworks of a climax has Phoenix and SCOTT GLENN engaged in a life and death struggle that leads to the film's rather ironic ending that lets us know that Phoenix will continue his thieving ways in the army under a new commanding officer . Not bad , but really not a flattering glimpse of U . S . Army life . There are some laughable moments but the latter half of the film is distinctly geared toward the dark side . Phoenix plays it straight all the way through , charming enough in a rascally sort of way but never giving the material the light touch that it seems to need . As Leonard Maltin observed : " Not bad as black comedy . . . but grows increasingly unpleasant as story unfolds . "
Impressive romantic drama with sadistic overtones . . .	The dark side of GEORGE SANDERS is sure to bring out the cad in him whenever he plays a movie villain . And he's at his darkest in the early scenes of SON OF FURY , where poor RODDY McDOWALL must do work as a stable boy for his cruel and mean spirited uncle . Later , when McDowall grows up to be TYRONE POWER ( now that does strain credibility a bit ) , he finds romance on a desert isle with GENE TIERNEY and he seems to have found paradise . But he can't forget that he must seek vengeance on his brutal uncle and packs up and leaves Tierney , clad in a becoming sarong and looking her most exotic . That alone stretches credibility again , but the plot is the thing . We follow Power back to London again to be reunited with his lady love ( a beautiful FRANCES FARMER ) and resolve his problematic relationship with sneering Sanders . It's the kind of costume epic made for someone like TYRONE POWER , the sort of tale that played on the fantasies of young men who wanted to do the sort of adventurous wandering that he does , especially if someone like Gene Tierney was still waiting for his return . It's absorbing all the way , full of dark menace whenever he has to confront GEORGE SANDERS , in one of his best jobs as a sarcastic villain . And , of course , for TYRONE POWER fans , it's one of his best roles as a romantic hero .
POSSESSED is a chilling noir melodrama . . .	Before I begin , I have to take exception to a few of the comments here comparing this to THE SNAKE PIT . No way . THE SNAKE PIT was Hollywood's first realistic treatment of mental illness and was a ground-breaking landmark film in that genre , a serious treatment of schizophrenia and of one woman's experiences in a state mental asylum and written by a woman who had been institutionalized herself . POSSESSED is a noir melodrama calculated to give JOAN CRAWFORD a chance to go insane with her mad , obsessive love for VAN HEFLIN whom she must have at all costs . VAN HEFLIN is a bit miscast in his role as a man who simply wants to get away from her possessiveness . It's hard to believe she cares so much for this less than dynamic , unsympathetic scoundrel who does not seem the sort of man to drive a woman mad with desire . There are other problems with the story - - chiefly , the fact that nobody seems to be even remotely aware of the depth of her illness despite her strange behavior and occasional flashes of maniacal laughter . RAYMOND MASSEY treats her symptoms of madness as nothing more than a case of the sniffles that might lead to a bad cold . His role is extremely underwritten so as to make his motivations perplexing indeed , as well as unconvincing . GERALDINE BROOKS makes a nice debut here , although she was far better in later roles at Warners . But it doesn't really matter what others do - - this is clearly rigged to be a Joan Crawford vehicle in which the other characters are merely foils for the star's chance to go mad on camera . Because of her own well-known tendencies for jealous behavior in private life , it's a chilly thing to watch and she plays it well . Curtis Bernhardt has directed the early scenes with noirish authority , particularly the opening which shows a robot-like Crawford wandering aimlessly through shadowy city streets . Unfortunately , there is little he can do about the screenplay which takes a little too long to reach a lame conclusion . The 1940s was a decade wherein Hollywood became interested in making films where psychiatric disorders ( alcoholism , mental illness ) could be examined and became fodder for searing melodramas like THE LOST WEEKEND , SPELLBOUND , A DOUBLE LIFE and THE SNAKE PIT . POSSESSED is a striking example of Joan Crawford at her most persuasive , but fails to convince the viewer that the psycho-babble about her illness is the real thing . And comparing it to a serious film like THE SNAKE PIT is a big mistake . However , for Joan Crawford fans , this one gets a high recommendation .
Satisfying version in ' 30s style directed by Victor Fleming . . .	TREASURE ISLAND is the sort of film that cries out for Technicolor since it deals with pirates , treasure maps , ships at sea and a fort under attack - - the sort of thing done in scores of other movies ( and other versions of the story ) , but usually in color . Here the B & W photography is handsome enough , the sets look sturdy , the ship masts are full and the acting is strictly from the ' 30s era of overacting - - not too much of a flaw in this case because the story cries for some good old melodramatic turns . During the opening sequences , LIONEL BARRYMORE acts up a storm as Billy Bones , the man who has the whole tavern singing " Sixteen Men On a Dead Man's Chest " . His look of astonishment at seeing his assassin enter the tavern is priceless . Unfortunately , his role is a comparatively brief one . JACKIE COOPER resorts to too much pouting ( in Shirley Temple style ) to be truly effective as Jim Hawkins but does a decent enough job ; WALLACE BEERY steals every scene he's in as the one-legged Long John Silver with a parrot on his shoulder ; LEWIS STONE and NIGEL BRUCE do well enough in more conventional roles as high-blooded men from aristocracy ; and even OTTO KRUGER , an actor I'm not particularly fond of , does one of his best jobs as Dr . Livesey , protector of the Hawkins boy , and DOUGLAS DUMBRILLE does a brilliant job as a master villain . Among the pirates , there's a good sense of adventure all the way through and the Robert Louis Stevenson story is faithfully rendered except for the sentimental ending . Nevertheless , it never quite overcomes the feeling that you're watching actors going through the motions of a pirate tale and lacks the lusty swordplay and swashbuckling fun of another sea epic , CAPTAIN BLOOD , which came out a year later . Michael Curtiz , it seems , had a better handle on this sort of adventure than Victor Fleming .
Will have you weak with laughter . . . and fright . . .	HAROLD LLOYD goes through a whole series of funny happenings that could only happen to an actor as talented as he was ( and Buster Keaton and other silent greats ) . And yet they all come about because he mistakenly believes his girl is going to marry someone else . Desolate , he decides to think of quick ways to commit suicide , inspired by a newspaper headline that tells of two youths who killed themselves when they lost their sweethearts . His plans backfire , of course , but before you know it a construction boom has lifted his office chair out the window with him sitting on it , thinking he's been shot by a stunt he rigged up to have a gun go off when someone opened the door . What ensues is the cleverest bit of physical comedy you can imagine , with Lloyd getting himself into sky high trouble when he makes an attempt to walk the construction beams which seem to be in a conspiracy against him . It's the funniest half of the short comedy - - and one can see why he was so revered as a silent comedian . The ultra busy soundtrack has a musical score ( I saw this on TCM ) , but like many scores accompanying silent films , it's almost too much of a good thing . After awhile I dodged for the mute button . Amazing to see what clever stunts he was capable of , even in his comedy shorts .
Death of a salesman . . . slow descent into madness . . .	I have respect for SEAN PENN as an actor , but have often been offended by his liberal politics , his rants about a corrupt president and his anti-war stance and bias toward many things in general . But I have to admit that in THE ASSASSINATION OF RICHARD NIXON he gives an exceptionally fine performance as a man slowly descending into madness because of all the everyday frustrations of life . The film is especially good at detailing the things that keep building up to the man's final act , in which he destroys himself along with some innocent lives . Even the scenes showing him at his mailbox , hungrily waiting for the official word that his " invention " has been accepted - - something everyone can relate to who has ever waited impatiently for a certain piece of news to arrive . His gradual descent into madness is done in a way that is gripping without being melodramatic . NAOMI WATTS is almost unrecognizable as the same woman who played opposite King Kong in the latest reincarnation of that famous film . She's the wife who can't seem to convince her husband that their life together is over . With both a crumbling marriage and troubles on the job sending him over the edge , the story moves at a steady pace toward the inevitable climax . All concerned deserve praise for noteworthy performances . JACK THOMPSON is excellent as the boss who seems to have Penn's best interests at heart when he recommends reading " How To Win Friends and Influence People " , but the socially inept character that Penn plays never has more than a timid grasp of what his boss expects him to be . Penn moves away from the abrasive characters he played so well in other films to that of a man who stammers and is humbled by authority figures who seem to rule his world in an unfair way . He is completely convincing as the increasingly unstable salesman who funnels his daily frustrations into preparations for a plot to kill Richard Nixon . Interesting film with a strong central performance by Penn that ranks with his best work .
Edward G . Robinson in another psychotic role . . . Rozsa's music helps . . .	There's a very creepy atmosphere in THE RED HOUSE and although the film is rather slow in getting its story started , beginning as it does in rustic daylight scenes , the mood soon changes - - as does Miklos Rozsa's evocative background music - - and we know we're in for a psychological suspense tale grounded in the usual film noir ingredients . Robinson is a man hiding a secret - - and when he becomes violently upset when someone suggests taking a short cut through the woods near The Red House - - it's only a matter of time before all the focus of the film becomes drawn to the house and whatever secrets it hides . His daughter Meg ( ALLENE ROBERTS ) is attracted to a young man who comes to work on the farm ( LON McCALLISTER ) and it's he who first suggests taking a short cut . Curiosity gets the best of the girl and her suitor and before long the story takes a number of unexpected twists and turns . JUDITH ANDERSON lends her impressive presence to the role of Robinson's wife and Rory Calhoun and Julie London ( who later had quite a bit of success as a pop singer ) are competent enough in supporting roles . But most of the credit for the success of the film in creating the proper mood goes to Robinson , who is excellent here , and to composer Miklos Rozsa who delivers a superb background score that heightens the melodrama .
Interesting behind-the-scenes look at an American classic . . .	This is an interesting glimpse at the ingredients that went into making the very special MGM musical , MEET ME IN ST . LOUIS , with tidbits about the filming from cast members like LUCILLE BREMER ( who played the oldest sister ) and MARGARET O'BRIEN ( who played the youngest ) . LIZA MINNELLI can be heard talking warmly of her father , VINCENT MINNELLI and his dedication to the project with his artistic background given full reign by the requirements of the turn-of-the-century storyline . HUGH MARTIN , the composer , recalls how the studio wanted him to include a song about a trolley for the scene where they go to the fairgrounds - - and , of course , he came up with " The Trolley Song " , a number that he said Judy captured in one take . Vincent Minnelli also remarked how he'd give Judy dozens of bits of business before filming a scene and she'd have no trouble remembering them all . MARGARET O'BRIEN fondly recalls working with Garland ( who treated her like her little sister ) and LUCILLE BREMER also has only good things to say about working on the film with a few tidbits of information that she shares with fans of the film . If you loved the movie , you'll enjoy this " Making of " featurette .
Intriguing psychological fantasy with lighthouse setting . . .	The 1940s was certainly the decade where Hollywood was producing many films with psychological overtones ( everything from SPELLBOUND to POSSESSED to THE SNAKE PIT ) , so it comes as no surprise that Britain was also delving into stories where such elements were found in some of the prominent British films of that decade - - films like BLACK NARCISSUS where madness overtakes a woman's mind and leads to attempted murder . Here , it's the supernatural that takes center stage . THUNDER ROCK has an intriguing premise and deals more with the supernatural and the effect that the ghostly inhabitants of a lighthouse have on the mind of a disillusioned war correspondent during the WWII era . MICHAEL REDGRAVE is the writer who retreats to a lighthouse in Lake Michigan when he wearies of a world drifting toward fascism and loss of freedom as the Nazi menace increases . His books and speeches meet with indifference by an uncaring public . The inhabitants of the lighthouse ( from an 1849 shipwreck ) inspire him to have courage and go on with his life and fight for his beliefs . Unfortunately , the allegorical fable of a man visited by the spirits of dead passengers who lost their lives at sea doesn't ring true . The heavy handed treatment of a delicate theme doesn't help . In short , the story never reaches the kind of potential it had - - and despite good acting by the entire cast , especially by a young MICHAEL REDGRAVE and JAMES MASON . LILLI PALMER has little to do in a minor role but look worried and decorative . Should have been a memorable film , but the tale is not smoothly told . Instead , it's both overlong and uneven , falling far short of the mark . Perhaps it worked better as a play or novel , but the screen version is too diffuse , overlong and preachy to make a lasting impression . Trivia note : In overall concept , the story is reminiscent of the play " Outward Bound " which was filmed in the ' 30s and remade in the ' 40s as BETWEEN TWO WORLDS , a more successful allegory / fantasy .
Unknown film noir is definitely worth catching . . .	After watching RAILROADED , I'm convinced JOHN IRELAND could have taken his place alongside men like ROBERT MITCHUM doing grim little film noirs during the ' 40s . He's excellent as a tight-lipped gangster with a scowling expression as he methodically kills anyone double-crossing him or standing in his way . He knocks around his blonde girlfriend ( JANE RANDOLPH ) with woman-hating contempt and fires bullets with casual lack of concern for fatalities . In short , he makes an ideal film noir anti-hero . HUGH BEAUMONT , known by most fans principally as Beaver's dad on TV , is only lukewarm as the detective who falls for SHIELAH RYAN and decides to help her track down the killer after Ireland frames her kid brother ( ED KELLY ) for the murder of a policeman . Their final fade-out kiss looks a little clumsy but - - hey , the accent is on crime and action , not romance . Anthony Mann does the best he can with a low-budget crime melodrama and turns it into a taut , well-made , shadowy film noir with Ireland showing his stuff as a ruthless gangster . Summing up : Brisk and entertaining , it's well worth watching for fans of this genre .
More fun than " The Greatest Show on Earth " . . .	While RING OF FEAR may not qualify for Best Film of the Year ( as DeMille's circus epic did ) , it is a colorful and fast moving story of life under the big circus tent , whereby an ex-employee returns to his old job seeking vengeance on none other than CLYDE BEATTY and intent on evening the score for an ex-girlfriend who married another man ( JOHN BROMFIELD ) . Beatty's lion-taming act is fascinating to watch . The film's main purpose seems to be in showcasing the circus life , the roustabouts setting up the tents , the training of wild animals ( and I do mean wild ) , the petty arguments among the trapeze artists and other performers , and all of it supervised by a caustic manager ( PAT O'BRIEN ) in the sort of brassy wise-guy role he could have performed in his sleep . For added interest , there's a laid-back performance from MICKEY SPILLANE as himself , helping O'Brien solve the case of the psychopath bent on murderous revenge , who is hiding out in the traveling circus . SEAN McCLORY is guilty of overacting in many a scene but he does create a fascinating offbeat character as the madman who has escaped from confinement and is intent on revenge . The last fifteen minutes of the film contain more suspense and excitement than deMille managed to do in his lengthy , pretentious Oscar-winning epic THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH . Summing up : Not masterpiece theater as far as acting and script are concerned , but interesting enough as a suspense tale played against a colorful circus background , to maintain a reasonable amount of interest .
The film that started the Ladd / Lake combo in the ' 40s . . .	THIS GUN FOR HIRE is a fascinating , grim look at a hired killer ( ALAN LADD ) , a corrupt boss ( LAIRD CREGAR ) , a gutsy femme fatale blonde ( VERONICA LAKE ) , and the detective ( ROBERT PRESTON ) who has a hard time getting his hands on the much wanted criminals and their cunning ways . Paramount wisely cast ALAN LADD in his first starring role as Raven , put him opposite the very attractive and petite VERONICA LAKE , and added LAIRD CREGAR and ROBERT PRESTON for box-office insurance . The film is loaded with wartime references , propaganda , murder , blackmail , and all the usual ingredients that make good film noir . It's played very effectively by the entire cast and runs a brisk 80 minutes that moves quickly and assuredly under Frank Tuttle's direction . Ladd makes an interesting character out of his cold blooded killer , stroking a cat as easily as killing it when he has to . His deadpan expression is not a hindrance in this case , his tight-lipped demeanor perfectly acceptable since he's playing such a heartless criminal . Lake is equally effective as the woman who finds herself drawn inexplicably to his character , even helping him avoid detection at one crucial point in the plot . But I thought her nightclub act for Cregar was a bit hokey when it came to the magic . Cregar does his usual outstanding job in a well scripted villainous role , stealing almost every scene he's in . Summing up : For once , Graham Greene has no reason to complain about the way Hollywood treated one of his novels .
Liz won't play second fiddle to anyone . . . especially a violinist !	RHAPSODY is a typically lush romantic opus from MGM , conceived as a stunning tribute to the 22 year-old ELIZABETH TAYLOR and surrounding her with some melodious classic music from the two men in her life - - JOHN ERICSON and VITTORIO GASSMAN . All women should have such romantic woes - - torn as she is , between two handsome men with matinée idol looks while she watches on the sidelines dressed in smart outfits by Helen Rose , with sophisticated looks at the camera and everyone else in the cast . She is as poised as a marble statue and just as cold and beautiful . The tale is as wildly improbable as anything Joan Crawford ever did in lush B & W surroundings at Warner Bros . ( a la HUMORESQUE ) , and the story itself is hardly more than routine , presenting Taylor as a spoiled young woman who mistreats men who are too immersed in their careers to notice she's around . But on the plus side , there's that glorious music and some very convincing finger work by Ericson on the piano and Gassman on the violin . They really look as if they're playing their instruments , and both of them are up to the acting demands of their less than dynamic roles . Taylor was certainly one of the most photogenic women who ever stepped before a camera , but it's a pity that her talent ( at this stage ) is not a match for her fabulous wardrobe and glossy , tremulous close-ups that have her torn between two men without ever ruining her make-up with real tears . Absurd fun , if only for the music and the decent performances , but actually a very routine romantic angle that is a mere trifle against a splendid background of passionate classical pieces .
Unusual Carpenter tale is like an episode of The Twilight Zone . . .	Watching IN THE MOUTH OF MADNESS is similar to watching an episode of Rod Serling's " Twilight Zone " - - it's that kind of tale . Obviously , the character of Sutter Cane is based on the eminently popular writer of horror stories , Stephen King , who also sets most of his novels in Maine - - usually in a quaint New England town . King's name is even mentioned a couple of times by insurance inspector SAM NEILL . Neill and JULIE CARMEN go on a wild goose search for the author who seems to have disappeared just when his latest book is about to hit the best-seller lists . They both begin to believe that the author's horror books are having an effect on their reasoning when they begin to experience unexplainable happenings with horror overtones . SAM NEILL seems to relish his role as the crazed insurance man who begins to wish he never read a Sutter Cane novel - - and for good reason , as the viewer will find as soon as they do reach the town where Cane is hiding out . John Carpenter delivers a subtle , chilling horror story that will keep you wondering if you too are losing a sense of what's real and what isn't . Clever plotting and good performances make this one a better than average thriller , even if the ending is somewhat unsatisfying . Nice to see CHARLTON HESTON in a small but pivotal role .
Radiant Fontaine and handsome Power caught in wartime romance . . .	THIS ABOVE ALL succeeds as a romantic drama largely because of the two leading performances of TYRONE POWER and JOAN FONTAINE , both at their physical peak . Fontaine makes a radiant , spirited Prudence and Power has that sincere quality that makes Clive a real character . On the debit side , it has the faults typical of many wartime films in the ' 40s - - the propaganda attitude is full of flag-waving moments , such as Fontaine's monologue about England's brave fight for victory . Nevertheless , she gives one of her better performances as an aristocratic young British woman who enlists in the WAF , meets Power and quickly falls deeply in love . It's the romantic aspect of the tale that is a clear winner - - but the preachy elements in the screenplay do considerable harm in dulling its merits as a motion picture . The wartime scenes of bombings and air raids is extremely well handled , the B & W photography is excellent , but Alfred Newman's syrupy score used throughout never gets a chance to rest . Power and Fontaine make a handsome couple and the cast includes Thomas Mitchell , always a welcome character actor , as a caring friend . Anatole Litvak's direction is occasionally striking but this director has done much more dramatic and serious work ( such as SORRY , WRONG NUMBER and THE SNAKE PIT ) with greater effect . It ends up being only mildly satisfying , mainly because of the chemistry of the two stars .
Pepe Le Pew is always good for a few laughs . . .	Although the laughs are usually based on a single joke , with Pepe relentlessly seeking a mate and finding that he is quite irresistible , these Pepe Le Pew cartoons were stylish fun from the Chuck Jones factory of cartoons . There's not much to be said for the plot which had been used in countless other Pepe films , but as usual there are chuckles to be had in how Pepe's love struck antics get him caught up in one silly situation after another . Animation is standard for this type of cartoon . Recommended only for those who succumb to Pepe's Charles Boyer accent and his rascally ways .
Noteworthy for the film debut of Kim Novak . . . tight suspense . . .	PUSHOVER is an underrated , little known crime melodrama from the mid-'50s that introduced the blonde beauty of KIM NOVAK to audiences and gave FRED MacMURRAY another chance to play an authority figure seduced by the charms of a femme fatale . When the story begins , it turns out his accidental meeting with Novak was really a set-up , he being a cop assigned to keep track of her whereabouts after a bank hold-up results in the death of a police officer . He suspects that her mobster boyfriend pulled the job and at first resists when she tries to convince him they can use the bank money for themselves . But eventually , he weakens and before you know it he's informing her that her phone is wire tapped and the two of them are just one step ahead of the police for the rest of the film . PHIL CAREY , as a fellow officer and E . G . MARSHALL as the lead detective are excellent in supporting roles , as is DOROTHY MALONE in a pivotal role as a girl occupying the apartment next to Novak in a U-shaped building that enables MacMurray and Carey to keep an eye on both gals through binoculars ( shades of REAR WINDOW ) . Conveniently , no one ever draws the blinds in these sort of thrillers and spying is made so easy for the sake of plotting , as the 24-hour surveillance occupies much of the story . The noir elements are present throughout , the dark rainy streets , the shadowy photography during car chases , the clipped delivery of lines , the murder scheme gone awry , the femme fatale angelic on the outside , bad within . But somehow it never becomes a major film noir , relegated to its place in obscurity over the years and not really a title that pops up when one speaks of film noir - - but it does qualify as noir , on a minor scale , and it's given some taut direction and tight suspense by director Richard Quine . Kim is as easy as ever on the eyes although a bit robotic in her acting technique and never quite convincing as a mobster's moll . MacMurray has a less interesting , more one-dimensional role as a cop corrupted by beauty . All in all , definitely worth watching .
Needs an extra dose of realism . . . Claudette too well-groomed . . .	For someone who has to endure harsh punishment over a five-year period in a Japanese prison camp , CLAUDETTE COLBERT looks remarkably well-groomed and coiffed with her trademark hairdo looking as though she had barely missed an appointment at the local beauty parlor . True , she throws a little mud on her face for the grim moments , but she presents such a typically Claudette look ( as Agnes Newton Keith ) , that it's one of the major weaknesses in an otherwise rather gripping story . She and her little boy are separated from her husband ( PATRIC KNOWLES ) for most of the film but happily reunited at the end . Based on the real-life experiences of Keith as a POW , it's told at a rather slow pace as it unfolds a series of scenes meant to indicate the harsh punishment while at the same time showing how Miss Keith communicated on an intellectual level with the Camp Commander SESSUE HAYAKAWA with whom she developed a remarkable rapport . The post-World War II drama unfolds in a Japanese prison camp in Borneo where the cultured Hayakawa takes an interest in authoress Colbert and eases some of her discomfort by complying with certain requests . But overall , the drama is not depicted as realistically as other prisoner of war stories have done since - - notably EMPIRE OF THE SUN which dealt with the harsh realities in a more disturbing way . Trivia note : The key role was first offered to OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND , who had already done quite a realistic turn in THE SNAKE PIT . One thing is certain : de Havilland would have been more willing to downplay the glamour in more realistic fashion than Colbert does .
Three stars shine in low-key melodrama directed by Robert Wise . . .	Whatever suspense THREE SECRETS has is derived from the audience not knowing ( until the end ) which woman's boy has survived a plane crash . Each woman ( ELEANOR PARKER , RUTH ROMAN and PATRICIA NEAL ) thinks it's her own abandoned five year-old son . As they wait patiently for more news on the identity of the boy , each woman reflects in flashbacks on what led up to their heart-breaking decision . Robert Wise has directed all of the melodrama with some fine touches and a steady hand , so that Parker , Roman and Neal are all seen to advantage in a plot vaguely similar to that of A LETTER TO THREE WIVES in which three women await news on which husband deserted them . Parker is a woman who had an illegitimate child ; Roman had to give up her child while she served a jail term ; Neal was a career woman who preferred career to domestic chores . Sensibily acted and directed , it's a rather low-key melodrama that might not meet the demands of fans not enthusiastic about so-called chick flicks .
One of the better B-film mysteries exploring device of a seance . . .	The description of the plot given by TCM on its cable showing of this little MGM movie from 1937 made me want to watch it - - something about a woman holding a seance to prove that her daughter is not the murderer and with a setting in Colonial India . Then I saw the cast names : DAME MAY Witty , LEWIS STONE , MADGE EVANS , RALPH FORBES , ROBERT COOTE . . . and immediately I decided to watch it . Not disappointed . It's a tidy little mystery , nothing original or approaching the wit and wisdom of Agatha Christite's tales , but interesting nevertheless . Dame May Witty is the protective mother who helps inspector LEWIS STONE solve the case - - and , happily for me , it turned out to be someone I suspected all along . A crisp one hour and six minute programmer from MGM given all the polish one would expect from a major studio . The elaborate sets add the necessary atmosphere , except for the seance itself which is held in total darkness and is just a black blur on the screen during which a voice is heard . This is the only flaw in an otherwise smoothly made B-picture . Silver-haired gentleman CHARLES TROWBRIDGE is seen in many movies from the ' 30s and ' 40s and does a smooth job as Dr . Mason . Well worth watching .
The skating queen meets The Prince . . .	SONJA HENIE was always lucky that Zanuck ( at Fox ) had the good sense to surround her with capable talent so that the film wouldn't depend on her ability to skate , smile dazzlingly ( like a dimpled darling ) , and say as little as possible so her Norwegian accent wouldn't be too hard for Americans to take . Here , he surrounds her with JOAN DAVIS , MELVILLE COOPER , ARTHUR TREACHER , ALAN HALE and SIG RUMAN who keep the tale spinning even though it's the usual boy-meets-girl one that's full of the usual misunderstandings . And for added insurance , Zanuck gave in to Sonja's demands that TYRONE POWER be her male co-star . She and Power were quite an item at the time , although it was rumored that Power was just using her to get one step up on the ladder of success . She was reportedly devastated when he went off in another direction and married Annabella . Sonja does some pleasing routines on ice and Joan Davis is a daffy orchestra leader who occasionally sings a wacky song number - - so , it's all pretty much the kind of thing audiences wanted from a Sonja Henie movie . But the best was still to come : SUN VALLEY SERENADE in 1941 .
Epic WWII dramatization of Britain's fight against Nazi Germany . . .	Strangely detached WWII saga that becomes a distracting " name that face " sort of game when so many distinguished British players are given assorted roles ranging from significant to insignificant in film that attempts to be an epic account of early British involvement in WWII . Photographed in widescreen and color , the aerial fights are the most exciting moments in a film that manages to be dull despite the important story it has to tell . Even after the first hour has passed , there is no depth to any of the characters in the foreground of the plot . Any tension depends on how much suspense can be milked out of the fact that the outnumbered British have a long way to go before their RAF can mount successful strikes against the war ready Germans . Among the sprawling cast , only MICHAEL CAINE manages to have some sort of identity , mostly in aerial scenes of combat . Others , like TREVOR HOWARD , LAURENCE OLIVIER , MICHAEL REDGRAVE and RALPH RICHARDSON have little time to develop any sort of characterizations . Since it's not a character driven story , all of its success depends on the many aerial scenes and they offer nothing new in the way of aircraft footage that hasn't been reenacted in so many other war films with better results . As Olivier notes when thinking of squadron losses : " We don't need a big win or a small win . We're fighting for survival . We need pilots . " A weak love story between CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER and SUSANNAH YORK makes no particular impression . The human element is missing , except for an occasional bit of humor , such as when JAMES FOX has to parachute out of his plane and lands in the garden bed of a British family . A little boy watching him land , dashes into the house and returns with his father's cigarette box . " Thanks awfully , old chap ! " says Fox , still sitting where he landed and taking the offered cig . Summing up : Technically , it's very proficient , but when it's all over , you have to wonder how so much more could have been made of a film outlining Britain's struggle during the early war years and without all the star cameos but some strong , individual roles .
Good film noir with a cluttered plot that takes time to build suspense . . .	John Farrow directed RAY MILLAND , MAUREEN O'SULLIVAN and CHARLES LAUGHTON in this taut thriller that doesn't really crackle with suspense until the murder of RITA JOHNSON pushes the film into film noir territory . Before that , the opening scenes involve so much exposition and character development that it takes time ticking away on THE BIG CLOCK before we get to the start of a good , tense search for a killer . Milland is excellent as a man suspected as the murderer of his boss's mistress , when in actuality it is Laughton himself who has committed the crime of passion . He orders Milland to head the investigation and find the man that Laughton spotted in the hallway before he entered Johnson's apartment . A sub-plot involving Milland's wife who wants to spend more time with him ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) tends to get in the way of the main plot from time to time . But Maureen is lovely in a small role and she and Milland make a credible couple . GEORGE MACREADY is one of Laughton's henchmen and , as usual , is perfect in this kind of thriller . But it's ELSA LANCHESTER as an eccentric artist with a silly laugh who steals every scene she's in . The convoluted plot is sometimes distracting to follow , but all of the supporting players includes a number of interesting characters , especially those on the staff at " Crimeways " where every clue is written on a blackboard as the noose tightens around the desperate Milland or at the nightclubs and antique shop Milland frequented . Settings and photography are effective in creating the mood for an interesting film noir directed at a swift pace by Farrow , but not without some implausibilities in plot popping up now and then . Milland is at his best with plenty of nuances in his performance , even displaying a light touch now and then with his changing facial expressions .
Post-World War II drama of Nazi intrigue aboard a train . . .	BERLIN EXPRESS loses a lot of steam with a start full of exposition and dry , fact-filled narrative to explain the existing situation in post-war Germany . The narrator aptly describes it as " a world of rubble under strict military control . " The footage of a devastated Frankfurt and Berlin give an authentic feel to the story , which is a bit muddled at times due to script problems in trying to cover too much history . Among the international train passengers are MERLE OBERON , ROBERT RYAN , CHARLES KORVIN and PAUL LUKAS , all of whom become involved in the hunt for a kidnapped politician after a murder all of them have witnessed aboard the train . It's material that must have been gripping enough at the time , but comes across as a bit too heavy handed today . Oberon is supposed to be Lukas ' secretary , attired in some fashionable Orry Kelly gowns . Ryan has a good role as a trustworthy American drawn into the search for a missing man ( Lukas ) because he's attracted to Oberon . Korvin plays a man who is not the charming passenger he seems . It's plot-heavy in a way that most espionage stories are but under Jacques Tourneur's taut direction it does manage a moderate amount of suspense . Ryan gets to have a well-staged fight scene that he manages to survive even though he's had several bullets flying in his direction . Not top-notch as entertainment of this kind , but it does hold the interest and builds nicely toward a fast-moving conclusion aboard the express .
Sergio's slow-moving western has some unforgettable moments . . .	I have to give ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST a decidedly mixed review . Before I begin , let me point to the major flaws involved : the dialog is not as sharp as in the Clint Eastwood westerns Sergio directed ; the score is not quite as electrifying as those memorable background scores featured in the Eastwood flicks ; and there is never enough exposition in the dialog to fill the viewer in with any background information nor is there any insight into the character motivations of CHARLES BRONSON . You have to wait until the last ten minutes of the two hours and forty-six minutes running time to discover why Bronson has been trailing the villainous HENRY FONDA . Aside from these annoying defects , the convoluted storyline does manage to hold the attention from the opening shots before the credits , consisting mostly of close-ups of WOODY STRODE and JACK ELAM as they await the arrival of a transcontinental train . The story is only vaguely made comprehensible by the time CLAUDIA CARNIVALE arrives to greet her new husband and his children - - only to find that they have all been slaughtered . From then on , the tension never lets up , although it is drawn out interminably with scenes that never seem to move but have impact because of the clever editing . It's certainly a western saga and obviously cost a pretty penny to produce . The atmosphere seems authentic as to the sets and costumes and there is a distinct lack of a Hollywood touch to the gunplay and violence . But is it a great western ? I would have preferred a less enigmatic approach to the storyline - - but the strength of the film lies in the solid performances from an excellent cast . I would have liked a little more from Claudia Carnivale than a fixed stare , which she seems to substitute for an intense overall performance . However , JASON ROBARDS , JR . does an impressive job as the outlaw " Cheyenne " . The final shootout between Bronson and Fonda is masterfully shot and within the time it takes place we're also given a flashback that shows why Bronson was tracking down Fonda's character . But the film's pace is much too slow and not exactly enlivened by a lack of dialog . And finally , I was disappointed that Morricone's score lacked the excitement of those he did for other " spaghetti westerns " .
Not quite the screwball comedy classic that I remembered . . .	Considering that this was made in 1937 , the special effects are amazingly well done throughout . . . and the fact that CARY GRANT is billed beneath CONSTANCE BENNETT in the credits is a reminder that this was made long before Grant emerged as a superstar . But there's a stale quality to the whole screwball comedy that has ROLAND YOUNG as a henpecked husband of BILLIE BURKE who gets a chance at becoming less stuffy due to the machinations of two friendly spirits who were recently killed in a fancy sports car . That about sums up the plot - - and nothing much happens that can be considered memorable - - nor is it any kind of morality fable . Interesting too is to note some of the key players among the supporting cast - - Eugene Palette as a bumbling hotel detective , Arthur Lake ( who became Dagwood Bumstead ) as an equally bumbling hotel porter , Alan Mobray as a butler who sometimes forgets his place in society , and an uncredited Ward Bond who shows up in just about every film made in the ' 30s . The art deco sets are very handsome and modern looking , but the whole film has the feel of a late night movie that's been shown too often to have any lasting effect now . As the two spirits , Constance Bennett is just a wee bit too frivolous to be believable as the ultimate playgirl and Cary Grant has little opportunity to be more than a decoy for Roland Young - - who , in the title role , manages to steal the film from both of them . As his wife , Billie Burke is her usual fluttery self .
Disturbing , with some dark themes and subtlety in the playing . . .	There's not too much to recommend here , except that JODIE FOSTER was always an interesting actress , even as a young girl , but the story could have been much more gripping and taut with suspense . She never seemed to play the wholesome types , and this is no exception . She's a bright thirteen year-old , living ostensibly with her poet father in a seaside house , very adult in her manners and interests . She doesn't like the snooping of others who ask too many questions about her quiet life in a house where her father is never seen . ALEXIS SMITH ( her landlady ) and MARTIN SHEEN ( her lecherous son ) are among those who do ask too many questions and threaten her isolated and very private existence . Like Miss Foster , their performances are just fine . All of this keeps the audience interested in finding out what has happened to her father - - and what are the dark secrets she is hiding . There are a few unexpected plot twists , but most of the story is told in a very understated way in a style that is not likely to connect with today's audiences who want films with a faster pace . However , there is a certain subtlety to the proceedings and it does get under your skin if you let yourself fall under the spell of some very good acting . It seems like ideal material for Alfred Hitchcock , who , in this very same year , came up with his poorly received FAMILY PLOT . By comparison , this one rates more attention .
Whatever Verdon wants . . . she almost gets . . .	As musicals go , DAMN YANKEES was a highly popular Broadway hit because it gave the audience GWEN VERDON's way with a song and dance and Bob Fosse's choreography . It may not have been as filled with hit tunes as some , but " You Gotta Have Heart " , " Whatever Lola Wants , " and " Two Lost Souls " were good enough to make theater patrons happy . When Verdon ( and Ray Walston ) won their Tony's , it was a good thing Warner Bros . decided to lure both of them to Hollywood for the screen version . For box-office insurance they had hunky TAB HUNTER to ensure that movie fans would show up - - and , surprisingly , it all works very well . Hunter is no great shakes as a vocalist , but he's pleasantly unassuming and gets by on his duet with Verdon . GWEN VERDON lights up the screen whenever she goes into one of her routines , and her " Whatever Lola Wants " is worth the price of admission alone . RAY WALSTON has a devilish time in his rib-tickling role and it's all easy to take as a merry mixture of music and comedy . The only drawback is that its stage origins are immediately apparent and there's a certain static quality about some of the scenes . But overall , George Abbott and Stanley Donen keep it fresh and lively whenever the music takes center stage .
Lloyd's misadventures include the amazing building routine . . .	This is one of Lloyd's first talkies and might have played better as a silent , since most of the action revolves around a whole bunch of amusing sight gags . He's a hapless shoe salesman who tells a wealthy girl that he's a tycoon and spends the rest of the film trying to impress her after unable to leave a cruise ship before it takes off . All of the shipboard scenes are amusing but become repetitious after the first twenty minutes . Highlight of the humor is Lloyd's interaction with sailor Noah Young , adept at playing a dummy . Silly plot manipulations end up with Lloyd getting stuck inside a mailbag and somehow hoisted up the side of a building on a flimsy scaffold . It's here that the film reminds one of the silent success he had with his skyscraper routine . Although the gags are inventive and foolish enough , it's an extended sequence that plays out over too much running time . WILLIE BEST is seen as a black maintenance man who's no help at all to Lloyd when he becomes aware of his plight . It's the kind of stereotyped role that makes today's politically correct audiences squirm . Summing up : Funny in spots , but certainly not one of Lloyd's best efforts . The scaffolding gags look painfully real .
Nice Poe follow-up to " House of Usher " . . . Price is terrific . . .	Once again VINCENT PRICE is harboring a dark secret about a torture dungeon , a father who sadistically used it during the Inquisition , and a wife who has died mysteriously . JOHN KERR is a young man from England who comes to Spain to find out what happened to his sister . When the story of the Spanish nobleman's boyhood is related to Kerr , you can understand why Price is about to go insane , haunted as he is by witnessing the death of his mother and uncle in the chamber . The plot thickens when it turns out that two of his loyal friends are at the heart of a cruel deception . All the Gothic elements are here in all their clichéd glory : the hidden passageways , the steep stairways , the cobwebs and spiders , the handsome castle interiors and all of the interiors beautifully photographed . Les Baxter's music provides an appropriately chilling background score . Roger Corman's direction is a major asset and BARBARA STEELE does nicely as the adulterous wife . Kerr is adequate as the young man inquiring into the death of his sister , but it's Price's show all the way . His mad scene at the end is extremely well handled , a bit over-the-top in many ways , but still effective . The pendulum scene is a nail biter . Summing up : Top rate Gothic mystery makes good combination of Poe , Corman and Price once again .
Edward Burns steals the show . . . nicely directed too . . .	While I can't say there's any real moral compass to the storyline ( with everyone cheating on everyone else ) , if nothing else EDWARD BURNS can consider himself a Long Island Woody Allen - - because the story told in brief vignettes is exactly the sort of tale that Allen likes to spin about ditsy relationships and dysfunctional human beings . It may lack the more subtle wit and dry humor found in some of Allen's works , but it's safe to say that if this had been penned by Allen Hollywood would be jumping all over it with awards . As it is , EDWARD BURNS as the older brother - - a cabbie aptly described by another as probably the only English-speaking cab driver in the city of NY - - is excellent , even if some of his motivations aren't crystal clear , like the casual decision to go to Paris with his girlfriend when both of them are clearly broke . MIKE McGLONE is fine as his financially solvent but mentally challenged brother who works on Wall Street but is hopelessly in love with a trashy blonde , CAMERON DIAZ , in another one of her bubble-gum roles . None of it rises above the level of a good TV script and the language is pretty salty throughout , dealing as it does with SEX almost exclusively . But Burns directs it at a good pace and it moves briskly to a satisfying conclusion which finds him reunited with his girlfriend after a series of misunderstandings . A pleasant way to spend an hour-and-a-half but don't expect anything great . Burns and McGlone were much better in THE BROTHERS McMULLEN the previous year .
Probing for the truth behind the Garland legend . . .	There's a tinge of sadness throughout this thoughtful , probing look at the life of JUDY GARLAND , a part of an " Omnibus " series that was shown on television in 1972 . Foremost among those who talk about the legendary star are two of the people who knew her close up and personal : her daughter , LIZA MINNELLI and director CHARLES WALTERS . Liza tells about the sad / funny side of her mother about whom even she admits that there's a lot about Judy that she doesn't know . She only knows that from her standpoint , life was never dull when Judy was around because she was totally unpredictable . She tells how their lives kept shifting from one situation to another in rapid succession as Judy's fortunes either rose or sunk . But through it all , we see the love Liza had for her mother . The other most detailed impressions of Judy come from Charles Walters , a man who directed Garland in a couple of films ( EASTER PARADE and SUMMER STOCK ) and was her dance director or choreographer on many others . He saw the tragic side of her insecurity due to studio pressure and the competition of very beautiful actresses at MGM to whom she always felt ugly by comparison . It didn't help that Louis B . Mayer called her " his little hunchback " . He traced her addiction to pills to the pressures of performing that began when she was very young and kept very busy without a normal teen-age development . But he was sure that she loved performing , particularly during her concert tours where the audience returned all that love with deep affection . Highlights from some of her best moments on film make this truly worthwhile to watch . There are wonderful clips from ZIEGFELD FOLLIES , THE WIZARD OF OZ , EASTER PARADE , THE PIRATE , THE HARVEY GIRLS , MEET ME IN ST . LUIS , SUMMER STOCK and later on , JUDGMENT AT NURENBERG and I COULD GO ON SINGING . Less notable for their insight are comments from fellow actor Peter Lawford and Mickey Rooney , but DIRK BOGARDE and MORT LINDSEY ( orchestra leader ) have some very interesting comments to make without mincing any words . At the end of his talk , Bogarde admits that despite all her personal faults , Garland was " a genius " when it came to her craft .
The gangster and the farmer's daughter . . .	ROBERT MONTGOMERY is the injured gangster being sheltered by a farm family with a lovely daughter ( MAUREEN O'SULLIVAN ) who quickly responds to his tough guy charm . MICKEY ROONEY is the ornery little brother continually pestering everybody and declaring " Don't call me Willie ! " Montgomery gradually reforms after his initial discomfort with country life . ( " Hurry up and lay that egg ! " ) . The predictable plot is light-hearted nonsense but enjoyable for the performances of Montgomery and O'Sullivan who seem to be enjoying their bucolic roles that have them feeding chickens , milking cows and collecting eggs . It's a pleasant little film , directed in workmanlike style by Woody Van Dyke . Maureen O'Sullivan looks radiant and has seldom been seen to better advantage and Robert Montgomery makes the most of his reformed gangster role . As a film , it's nothing too special , but it does pass the time pleasantly thanks to the warm chemistry between its two stars . Too bad MGM couldn't find better future material for Maureen , who is at her loveliest in this outing . I've never been a big Robert Montgomery fan , but he does give one of his more appealing performances here .
An early Cagney musical away from Warner Bros . . .	JAMES CAGNEY was having contract problems at Warner Bros . when he went out on his own and did this little musical for Grand National , which - - unfortunately - - flopped at the box-office . It's the kind of musical with a Hollywood background that pokes fun at the film colony and its star-making machinery ( a la SINGIN ' IN THE RAIN ) , and gives Cagney a chance to shine as a hoofer . Cagney is Ted Rooney , a bandleader who bids farewell to his band and his fiancé ( EVELYN LAW ) to take temporary leave for a film when Hollywood beckons . WILLIAM FRAWLEY is the publicity agent who meets him at the station with a bevy of Hollywood cuties to snap photographs of his arrival . GENE LOCKHART is the overbearing studio mogol who calls his make-up men to give their opinion of how to prepare him for photography . A vocal coach with a heavy accent is brought in to teach Cagney how to speak . And so it goes . It never misses a chance to spoof the Hollywood star-making machinery and phoniness . When Rooney's picture is a smash hit , the studio can't find him . He's fled Hollywood to join his sweetheart and they embark on a cruise ship where Cagney is part of the oddly amusing entertainment . You know it won't be long before Hollywood catches up with him in time for a happy ending . It's strictly fluff but Cagney gives a solid comedy / musical performance , coasting along nicely in his role despite some shaky support from Evelyn Law , a young lady who appears to be an inexperienced actress with a singing voice not suitable for the swing band music that Cagney indulges in . She's a big drawback in a film that needs a good partner for Cagney in the love interest department . Summing up : Trivial , predictable musical comedy which should at least interest Cagney fans but it's easy to see why it failed to please at the box-office .
Flashbacks get heavy duty in Phone Call from a Stranger . . .	Fairly interesting story of stranded passengers on an airliner recalling incidents from their past as they await connection to another plane . Nicely directed by Jean Negulesco , it's only problem is the uneven pace of the stories which are blended together rather smoothly . Foremost among the passengers are MICHAEL RENNIE , GARY MERRILL , SHELLEY WINTERS and KEENYN WYNN ( in one of his most obnoxious roles ) . Rennie recalls his unhappy marriage involving an auto accident he was responsible for while drinking - - in which he lied about not having been behind the wheel . Wynn is a clownish fool who shows everyone a photo of his attractive wife in a bathing suit pose ( BETTE DAVIS , whose later appearance in the film is after an accident has made her a cripple ) . Merrill is a seasoned traveler who calms the frazzled nerves of stripper Winters when the plane goes through storm turbulence . Shelley gives her usual breezy and brash performance ; Merrill is low-key and charming as a lawyer who doesn't drink too much ; and Rennie is interesting in a key role . The story gains interest after the plane crash when Merrill takes it upon himself to visit the victims ' families , the most poignant part of the story involving his confrontation with BETTE DAVIS who is no longer the image of the glamor photo Wynn showed to the other passengers . Told in typical ' 40s style with flashbacks serving as background filler , it holds the interest thanks to the excellent performances of a fine cast . BETTE DAVIS makes the most of small but interesting character role and BEATRICE STRAIGHT is touching as Michael Rennie's loyal wife . The EVELYN VARDEN / CRAIG STEVENS flashback with Varden painting herself as a saintly mother-in-law of Shelley Winters is a howl . Major fault : the story seems too contrived and Merrill's motivations for seeing and getting involved with the families is a bit hard to swallow .
Fast moving western short subject on the Oklahoma land rush . . .	Using background music from " Santa Fe Trail " and stock footage from other Warner westerns , OKLAHOMA OUTLAWS is a fast-paced yarn about the Oklahoma land rush and the good men vs . bad outlaws that is the theme of just about every western from Hollywood . ROBERT SHAYNE is the good cowboy who ends up becoming sheriff and WARNER ANDERSON is the bad guy who meets his fate in the shootout finale . The twenty minutes of running time moves swiftly and provides some action packed moments that make it easy to watch as the simple story of good vs . evil unfolds . Summing up : Nothing special but passes the time pleasantly .
Eccentric characters and unpredictable plots make it a series worth watching . . .	AMANDA REDMAN is the tough police boss of a squad of discontented officers she has to keep in line in order to solve unsolved murder cases . I've only watched one from this series but intend to watch more because it moves swiftly , has interesting and rather eccentric characters , and the plot took some unpredictable turns before the solution came . The British do this sort of thing well . Instead of Inspector Morse , we have Redman's female boss dealing with detectives who'd rather not handle some of the cases they're assigned to . Handsome production values help , as does the intelligent writing . Worth watching if you like your detective stories told in British style .
Charming little comedy worth warming up to . . .	JEANNE CRAIN was at the height of her appeal as a demure charmer at Fox , just beginning to be more than a pretty face as far as her acting career was concerned . And here she had two splendid co-stars : WILLIAM HOLDEN as her ex-G . I . hubby and EDMUND GWENN as a little retired professor who has some housing space in his attic . When Crain finds out about the available space ( during the big housing shortage at the time ) , she convinces Gwenn to rent the apartment to the young married couple . From there , the plot takes a few steps beyond that bare outline , always throwing a positive outlook at women who want to better themselves with an education as well as the G . I . s entitled to do so under the G . I . bill . Gene Lockhart , Griff Barnett and Betty Lynn fill the supporting roles amiably and it's probably Jeanne Crain's best film of that period , following her enormous success as MARGIE two years previously .
Enjoyable and informative intro to " Dodge City " and the ' 39 publicity junket . . .	I've really enjoyed these DVD introductions , especially the wise comments by Bob Thomas , Robert Osborne , Rudy Behlmer and historian Lincoln D . Hurst which really give credit where it's due and make the viewer understand the reputation of films like DODGE CITY in the context of when it was made , in 1939 . At the time , there was no television and studios sent their biggest stars out on publicity junkets . For DODGE CITY , the whole town turned out to welcome the Warner stock company celebrities that included Flynn , Bruce Cabot , John Garfield , Humphrey Bogart , Priscilla Lane , Rosemary Lane , Frank McHugh , Ann Sheridan and many others . But the commentary by Thomas , Osborne and Hurst is what comprises most of this special nine minute feature . They talk about Flynn's acceptance as a western star and his reluctance at first to attempt the role ; about the contribution made by Technicolor and Olivia de Havilland as Flynn's popular leading lady ; about Ann Sheridan's small but colorful role as a saloon singer ; and discuss " heavies " Bruce Cabot and Victor Jory who were the hissable villains of the piece . It serves as an enjoyable intro to the film , which turned out to be a huge success for Warner Bros . at a time when very few major films were photographed in three-strip Technicolor .
An interesting behind-the-scenes look at " Sweeney " . . .	Every facet of film-making that went into the filming of SWEENEY TODD : THE DEMON BARBER OF FLEET STREET is examined , rather briefly , in this episodic behind-the-scenes look at the Tim Burton / Johnny Depp collaboration for the screen version of the Stephen Sondheim Broadway musical . JOHNNY DEPP refers to it as a " marriage of two completely different worlds " ( the mix of music and horror ) and ALAN RICKMAN describes it as a " Gothic black comic opera " . The 25-minute documentary is divided into brief segments that describe how and why the film was made from the standpoint of director Burton and composer Sondheim . Depp and Helena Bonham Carter and Alan Rickman , along with other members of the cast , give their own viewpoints . The segments are : The Cast , The Vision ( how it all started with a penny dreadful popularity in ye Olde England ) , The Music , The Costume Design ( very interesting segment on attiring the entire cast ) , and The Production Design ( which meant creating on sound stages the entire Fleet Street atmosphere of Victorian England ) . Summing up : Goes by so quickly , you end up wishing for even more information .
Fast paced comedy / mystery features Torchy Blane . . .	This is an enjoyable little comedy / mystery in the Torchy Blane series that starred GLENDA FARRELL and BARTON MacLAINE on the trail of a killer involved in a nightclub mystery . Farrell is a fast-talking newspaper reporter smitten by her policeman boyfriend MacLaine . The breezy byplay between the reporter gal and her boyfriend is snappy enough to keep the plot moving briskly towards a solution of the murder . JANE WYMAN pops up as a flighty hatcheck girl who has almost no bearing on the plot . Interesting to spot ROBERT PAIGE in an early role before Universal groomed him for a bid toward stardom opposite stars like Deanna Durbin ( in " Can't Help Singing " ) . Passes the time but strictly a programmer .
Looks like an MGM Technicolor fairy-tale for adults . . .	If production values were all that mattered , this would be considered a vast improvement over the B & W version with Ronald Colman and Madeleine Carroll . MGM has spared no cost in sets and costumes but this is clearly a scene by scene remake that brings nothing new to the story , no added dimension of enjoyment except for the color and the technical improvements for the twin photography . It moves at a rather stately pace , as though impressed enough with its own trappings to conclude that a viewer needs nothing more . STEWART GRANGER and DEBORAH KERR are graceful replacements for Colman and Carroll and both look splendid in their roles with Granger having considerably more acting to do in a dual role when he assumes the identity of the King of Ruritania . The famous story has him as the commoner posing as the King and falling in love with Princess Flavia . Of course , there has to be a villain and JAMES MASON fills that role superbly as Rupert , involved in the plot to kidnap the real King in a struggle for power . It's the kind of role Mason specialized in for a decade or so previously and he's a scene stealer . Likewise , ROBERT DOUGLAS as a fellow conspirator plays another villain with relish . It's a lavish costume adventure / romance of the highest order , prettified in color by Technicolor so that it seems like a fairy-tale for adults . And it is . It's fantasy , beautifully realized of course , and a feast for the eyes . The final duel between Mason and Granger makes up for any lulls along the way . It's one of the best choreographed swashbuckling duels since " The Adventures of Robin Hood " .
Eric Blore : " We better get out of here or as the Americans say : ' Let's scram ! ' "	Enjoyable entry in the Lone Wolf series with ERIC BLORE supplying most of the humor with some clever lines and scene stealing tactics from WARREN WILLIAM , again playing the title role . It's a wartime espionage story with something about spies , mysterious laces , the glass on wristwatches and some ' 40s technology thrown in for good measure . All of it is highly improbable , as played here , and yet it's probably just the sort of escapist entertainment audiences wanted during WWII . ANN SAVAGE is the femme fatale ( as usual ) , but it's really Warren William and Eric Blore who share the spotlight beautifully , playing off each other with their usual dexterity . SHELDON LEONARD has a good turn as a nightclub owner on the right side of the law and LLOYD BRIDGES again shows up in a brief supporting role . Not bad , but not much above average either .
German expressionism is something Brahm brought to his films . . .	When Fox released their latest DVD of THE UNDYING MONSTER , it included a featurette on director Brahm called : CONCERTOS MACABRE : THE FILMS OF JOHN BRAHM . Brahm migrated from Germany ( during the rise of Nazism ) to England , and then to Hollywood where Darryl F . Zanuck was looking for someone to direct a Gothic horror film called " The Undying Monster " . He did such a masterful job on the film that it was often referred to as a B-film with an A-film quality , largely due to the expressionistic use of shadows and the atmospheric B & W photography . Zanuck was more than satisfied with the job and promptly gave him other assignments . The main discussion here is on two of Brahm's best known films , THE LODGER and HANGOVER SQUARthe first story with its emphasis on water and the influence it has on " the lodger " and the second dealing with the element of fire and how it is used at the start and finish of the Gothic melodrama . Bernard Herrmann's valuable contribution to the scoring of HANGOVER SQUARE and his eleven minute " Concerto Macabre " is also revealed , the film itself regarded as a masterpiece of its kind . Informative and entertaining , with clips from the films discussed , it's a shame that Brahm drifted into television features in the ' 50s and never returned to the film noir genre on the big screen .
Kathleen Freeman in what is probably her only starring role . . .	I always think of KATHLEEN FREEMAN as Miss Dinsmore , the vocal coach for Jean Hagen in the hilarious SINGIN ' IN THE RAIN . Actually she had numerous TV and film credits to her name for a long period of time beginning in the late ' 40s , but this is her only starring role in a John Nesbitt " Passing Parade " short about immigrant hired girls from Europe . Freeman is Annie Swenson from Sweden , who doesn't pass the test as maid to an American household until the dad gets a taste of her cooking . As the narrator says , from then on she " conquers the father through the stomach " with some good Swedish recipes . " I guess I don't send for my trunk , yes ? " she asks in her Swedish accented voice . She becomes a dear member of the family and eventually marries and has to say her good-byes to the family that took her in as a maid , starting at 84 hours a week , room and board , for $15 a month . A nice look back at a time that doesn't exist any longer with a fine performance from Freeman in this Oscar-nominated short from MGM .
Absorbing story from Katherine Anne Porter . . .	I saw NOON WINE when it originally aired in 1966 and haven't seen it since , so my memory of it has dulled over the years . But I do recall that I was not as impressed overall by the bleak story as some of the viewers seem to indicate - - nor was I pleased with the screen version of Katherine Anne Porter's SHIP OF FOOLS which in no way lived up to the novel . I do recall that JASON ROBARDS , JR . seemed to have the principal role which , of course , was given the most footage whereas OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND , THEODORE BIKEL and PER OSCARSSON had more peripheral roles as the unfortunate people caught up in the tragedy . Olivia , as a farmer's wife , had another one of her less glamorous roles , just two years after appearing as Cousin Miriam in HUSH . . . HUSH , SWEET CHARLOTTE , and it was the sort of role that required her to appear more like she did in THE PROUD REBEL . Other than that , while it may have appealed to fans of the Katherine Anne Porter short story , it was a bit heavy-handed to qualify as entertainment for the masses although the acting was good . Too bad it is not available for viewing by the general public today , but it was no masterpiece .
Featured on the 2-disc " Phantom of the Opera " DVD . . .	For fans of the film ( or the stage show ) , this is a very informative and detailed look at the origins of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical with incisive comments from the men who can tell it best : Andrew Lloyd Webber himself , Harold Prince ( on the stage version ) , composer Charles Hart , singer Steve Harley , Cameron Mackintosh , and Joel Schumacher . All of them have something important to contribute to our understanding of just how the whole project evolved from an idea that occurred to Webber when he just happened to pick up a copy of the original novel and saw the possibilities of turning it into a musical work . Glimpses of the Broadway production are especially fascinating , as well as other musical portions of the documentary wherein Steve Harley and Sarah Brightman were used in a musical video tryout . Makes a good companion piece to watching the Andrew Lloyd Webber film version .
Notable mainly for March's great performance but inferior to the Garland remake . . .	Sorry , but I can't get on the bandwagon here of glowing adjectives to describe A STAR IS BORN with mousy Janet Gaynor in the Esther Blodgett role - - a girl swept into big time stardom by a man whose own career is on the descent . FREDRIC MARCH plays the alcoholic Norman Maine ( modeled after someone like John Barrymore ) who meets Gaynor at a party , is presumably dazzled by her enough to get her a screen test , and that's how the career of Esther Blodgett starts . This would make sense if Gaynor had the sort of charm and personality suggesting she could be turned into a major star and win an Academy Award . Gaynor's screen persona here is dull and naive . Period . But somehow , that doesn't matter as much as it should because all the other characters are much better realized . The second half of the movie builds up some dramatic intensity completely missing in the dreary first half . And for some reason , the Technicolor improves as the film goes on . The interior scenes in the first half are darkly lit and look like primitive use of color . The touching ending is well handled , but I can't believe Janet Gaynor in the role of a girl whose talent is so arresting that she immediately is scooped up into the frenzy of film-making . The role should have been played by a girl in her early twenties who looks the part and has the out-sized talent needed to convince us she could be molded into a star of Vicki Lester proportions . Summing up : Disappointing , especially when compared to the Garland / Mason version , but worthwhile for Fredric March's performance as Norman Maine .
Heartwarming film for animal lovers . . .	But if you aren't an animal lover , this tale about a lion cub adopted by a game warden ( BILL TRAVERS ) and his wife ( VIRGINIA McKENNA ) might be too hard to digest . For anyone who has ever felt the pain of separation that comes from parting with a beloved pet , the film will win a special place in your heart . Vistas of African scenery ( filmed entirely on location ) and the very effective , insinuating musical score of John Barry are added compensations for a well-acted story about the taming of a lovable lion cub , its eventual growing up into a lioness ( called Elsa ) , and the separation that comes when Elsa must be set free to take her place among the wild animals . The early scenes with the young cub ( two other healthier cubs were sent to a zoo after the game warden had to kill the parents ) , are amusingly depicted and perhaps the most arresting part of the story . But the final scene is cloaked in the kind of sentimentality that has echoes of " Lassie Come Home " with Barry's score emphasizing a final reunion with Elsa before the " Born Free " theme hammers away at the emotions . Summing up : A nature film that animal lovers will adore .
( POSSIBLE SPOILERS ) . . . Tale of supernatural is taut , interesting , but ultimately unbelievable . . .	An exploration of the supernatural with only lukewarm success is DAUGHTER OF THE MIND from a novel by Paul Gallico and starring DON MURRAY as a parapsychologist helping RAY MILLAND discover the mystery behind the appearances of his dead daughter . GENE TIERNEY is Milland's worried wife , wheelchair bound and not having much to do aside from showing concern for the unexplained events . Young Don Murray gives the strongest performance here , making the viewer feel the need to solve the daughter's strange appearances and he is completely convincing as he gradually becomes more and more involved in the weird circumstances . The final explanation requires a suspension of disbelief since the details are not exactly plausible . Nice to see John Carradine , Virginia Christine and George Macready giving good support in minor roles - - both men showing the ravages of age but still recognizable as the sterling character actors they always were . Tierney and Milland were clearly coming toward the end of their careers in underwritten roles and neither one is particularly well served by the script , a muddled one that offers a rather unsatisfying explanation behind the mystery . The end result is only mildly satisfying , but still - - while not a classic of suspense - - the supernatural elements should intrigue many viewers . Interesting to note that the director is Walter Grauman , the man who directed LADY IN A CAGE five years earlier , and then went back to directing mainly TV movies .
Never look back . . . sometimes it's wise not to . . .	GERALDINE PAGE had only a couple of years to live after she made THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL , so it's fortunate that the Academy honored her with a Best Actress Oscar for her leading role in this film directed by Peter Masterson . A lonely widow determined to visit the scene of her youth , Page boards a bus and soon forms a friendship with fellow passenger , REBECCA DeMORNAY , a kind young woman separated from her military husband during wartime . Their relationship forms much of the core of the film's character-driven tale , although the story itself is slowly paced and riveting only because Miss Page is such a consummate actress . Based on Horton Foote's 1953 TV play , it provides a meaty role for Miss Page as a woman tired of living with her son and daughter-in-law in a cramped household and longing to return to Bountiful , Texas to recapture old times . Once you settle into the story , it provides a warm , nostalgic feeling and is impressively acted by the entire cast . Well worth viewing , if only for Page's heartbreaking performance .
Futuristic sci-fi thriller / fantasy deserves credit for originality . . .	At the time of release , I was crazy about FANTASTIC VOYAGE . Seeing it again , years later , there are lots of reservations but it still deserves a huge amount of credit for the overall originality of the plot wherein a group of scientists are turned into microscopic size in order to be injected into the body of a Czech scientist whose brain must be saved from a blood clot . It's an inside look at the lungs , ears and other assorted arteries of the upper body as the scientists attempt their mission in a one hour span because after that they revert to normal size . Needless to say , what they thought might be a ten minute salvage operation turns out to be much more perilous and time consuming . Once inside the body , the story evolves in real time , so the suspense is heightened . Some nifty players do their best to make it all seem convincing and , on the whole , they do a creditable job . That includes RAQUEL WELCH , ARTHUR KENNEDY , DONALD PLEASANCE and STEPHEN BOYD . Unfortunately , the story moves a little too slowly , a factor which modern audiences will probably find detrimental to this kind of tale . Summing up : May not be quite as satisfying for today's audiences who have seen everything in the way of science fiction , but in its time it was considered quite original and won Oscars for art decoration and special effects .
Haddonfield hospital is under attack . . . Michael is back . . .	A very respectable sequel , surprisingly enough , in an age where most sequels fail to capture the spirit of the original . The gore has been made a little more graphic , the scene has shifted to the hospital where Laurie was taken after the attack at her home , and everything moves in proper horror movie form under a different director but with the same nerve-jangling music that provided goosebumps in the original . JAMIE LEE CURTIS reprises her role as the hapless victim who shows spunk and courage even when she sees others around her being viciously attacked by Michael Myers and DONALD PLEASENCE is more determined than ever to capture the raving lunatic hellbent on turning Haddonfield Hospital into one large morgue . It's all strictly in keeping with the logic ( or lack of it ) that inspired the original , with the man in the mask more visible this time which makes some of the scenes even more scary . Dr . Loomis gets caught in a fiery explosion of fire at the climax , which makes us wonder whether he'll reappear for the next installment or not . There are those who think the film has a better pace than the first HALLOWEEN .
Uninspired teaming of Mitchum and Russell has so-so results . . .	Josef Von Sternberg must have been first choice for this assignment since he did do SHANGHAI EXPRESS which did magic for Marlene Dietrich back in the ' 30s and he knows how to take advantage of the exotic atmosphere and shadowy photography . Russell has never looked better . But this is no SHANGHAI EXPRESS - - just a low-key melodrama that gives JANE RUSSELL her usual sassy role as a gal who wanders into Macao looking for a job and ends up singing in a high class dive that is more of a gambling joint than anything else . ROBERT MITCHUM is a detective , WILLIAM BENDIX a salesman , and the plot spins along rather breezily with BRAD DEXTER as Russell's jealous employer with a criminal background . GLORIA GRAHAME has a colorless role as a bad girl with a weakness for Mitchum . Russell and Mitchum are pros at the kind of dialog they're asked to toss off - - and why not - - they've done it all before in previous flicks together . Naturally , they fall in love within the first forty-five minutes , which is about how long it takes for the plot to thicken . Seems none of the characters are quite what they seem to be , which makes for a nice plot twist toward the end . Nothing special , just a good look at Russell in her prime and Mitchum delivering his usual laconic performance until things get taut and he's forced to take on the role of action hero . Passes the time pleasantly enough but isn't essential viewing .
Another feature documentary on the 2-Disc " Phantom of the Opera " DVD . . .	THE MAKING OF ' PHANTOM OF THE OPERA ' is an interesting behind the scenes look at the preparations made to bring the film version of the stage success to the big screen , as the most expensive independent film ever made . The sumptuous sets and costumes are featured and the film's producer , SIMON LEE , describes how no expense was spared to recreate the bigger than life illusions in the set designs . The production designer , the cinematographer ( John Mathieson ) , costume designer and choreographer ( Peter Darling ) all contribute to the wealth of information concerning sets , costumes and overall look of the film which used a lot of matte paintings for backdrops , as well as CGI and a detailed miniature of the opera house . Unfortunately , at one point on my DVD this segment ends before the 46 minutes are up , but I'm sure there's more of Joel Schumacher and some of the cast members talking about their roles . If the glitch ever clears , I'll be able to give a fuller report .
Ghostly elements are all here . . . but fails to be totally satisfying . . .	When I first saw GHOST STORY in the ' 80s , I thought it was one of the best stories of its type ever told . Seeing it again tonight on cable , my opinion has changed . Yes , all the elements for a good tale of ghostly doings are in place - - but they never really reach a satisfying enough pattern in the scheme of things . The acting is excellent , the suspense is taut at times , but much of it spins along at too slow a pace before anything happens . The giggling schoolboys are rather tiresome in the flashbacks that reveal what happened to the woman they were all smitten with . As played by Alice Krige , she's an enigmatic seductress with a wicked gleam in her eyes and we never know quite what she is about to do . Craig Wasson does well with the role of a young man who encounters her , falls briefly for her and then leaves her when her neurotic ways become too much for him . How she takes revenge on the four men who were responsible for her death is the comeuppance of the tale . Whether you're willing to watch until the bitter end without changing channels is another thing . On the other hand , this is not the sort of movie to watch with so many commercial interruptions breaking the mood . Fred Astaire , John Houseman , Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . and Melvyn Douglas play the four old men who were drawn under the spell of a girl , seduced as they were by her charms . Each must confront their past deed as she exacts some sort of revenge on them - - that is the nub of the plot , but it could have been so much better had the script been better developed . I never read the novel , but I imagine it fills in the many gaps in the story that seem to be missing .
Plenty of cavalry vs . Indians shootouts in gritty western . . .	For western fans who enjoy plenty of shootouts against eye-filling western locations , DUEL AT DIABLO fills the bill . It's got several strands of sub-plots going but spends most of its time featuring some action packed shootouts that don't leave much time for character development among the cast . JAMES GARNER is a scout who saves a young woman who is being pursued by Indians . That's how the story starts , against brilliantly used Utah location shots . As the plot deepens , we find that she'd been captured by the Indians and was making her escape when he came to her aid . Meanwhile , back at Fort Creel , her husband ( DENNIS WEAVER ) is upset about her dalliance with Indians and the fact that she has a baby fathered by an Indian . A hardly recognizable JOHN HOYT ( in full Indian make-up ) is Chatah , the Apache chief with the full-sized army of fighters who wants the woman and the baby back . Another story thread has JAMES GARNER seeking revenge for the man who killed his Indian wife . With all of these sub-plots merging , there's even more story element tying in SIDNEY POITIER and BILL TRAVERS , both of whom look out of place in this western saga . If it's action you want , you get plenty of it here . Along with scenes of almost graphic torture and lots of arrows hitting their mark along with bullets and falling horses . It's not for the squeamish . Too bad the film really never builds up enough tension to sustain its running time , even with a new battle breaking out every fifteen minutes or so . By the time the final skirmish is reached , the viewer will feel almost as exhausted as the players must have been . Gritty all the way with a natural performance by Garner and good support from the others . Last but not least , a good score by Neal Hefti rises to the occasion with some nice flourishes .
Neil Simon's parody of murder mysteries with top cast . . .	With PETER FALK doing a superb turn as Sam Diamond ( a Raymond Chandler type of detective with Humphrey Bogart characteristics ) , and EILEEN BRENNAN as his moll , quick with the humorous sarcasm , this is a clever parody of every murder mystery ever written . In fact , everyone concerned with this Neil Simon parody is having fun in their offbeat roles . Most offbeat of all is NANCY WALKER as a ditzy mute maid and ALEC GUINESS as a blind servant - - and , unfortunately , TRUMAN CAPOTE as Lionel Twain , the host of a dinner party designed to trap a murderer . Too bad Philip Seymour Hoffman wasn't around at the time to do justice to Capote's embarrassingly bad interpretation of Twain who , despite all the Capote mannerisms , seems stilted and unrehearsed . David NIVEN and MAGGIE SMITH do wonders as a Nick and Nora type of couple , ELSA LANCHESTER is eccentric as Miss Marbles , and JAMES COCO has fun with his interpretation of a Belgian detective modeled after Hercule Poirot . All the requisites for mystery are present : the thunder and lightning , the heavy rains , the dark old house , the group of dinner guest suspects , and a plot that gets sillier with each scene . True , there's a bit of a letdown at the revelation of the killer , but it's all done with such high spirits and witty lines that you won't care much about that . Delicious parody of all those who-dun-its we all grew up on , stylishly directed by newcomer Robert Moore .
Juvenile delinquency not as scary in ' 55 short film . . .	Juvenile delinquency in cites across America was becoming a problem among teens in rural and big city towns according to TEENAGERS ON TRIAL , An RKO Pathe Screenliner from 1955 . The delinquency in James Dean's REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE seems to reflect the situations presented here , showing how many teens , in order to feel part of a structure outside their homes , joined gangs while their busy parents were too occupied to care . Shown are images of petty crimes , stealing goods , breaking windows , underage drinking at bars , all leading to a more serious incident when a police officer is hit by a teen-age driver , leading to arrest and juvenile detention . While the problems focus mainly on the teens themselves , the narrator goes on to mention the fact that busy parents holding down two jobs were also part of the trouble - - or , simply bad parenting . Nothing strikingly new about this short on delinquency , but it does give a warning of things to come .
Fred and Ginger and all the usual ingredients . . . including Eric Blore . . .	The first time Astaire and Rogers really shared top billing was in this RKO movie , THE GAY Divorcée ( based on a Broadway musical Astaire starred in called " The Gay Divorce " ) . This one is notable for NIGHT AND DAY and THE CONTINENTAL , as well as a show-stopping number performed by a very young BETTY GRABLE and EDWARD EVERETT HORTON called " Let's Knock Knees " . Under Max Steiner's direction , the musical numbers are what give the picture its real lift with , of course , a little help from Ginger and Fred . They , in turn , get additional help from ERIK RHODES , ERIC BLORE and ALICE BRADY . " Chance is the fool's name for fate , " is the codeword that sets in force the mix-ups that occur when Ginger mistakes Astaire for a man who is the co-respondent her lawyer has hired to expedite her divorce . The big deluxe dance number is , of course , " The Continental " , which gets lavish art deco treatment and intricate dance routines by Astaire , Rogers and a whole bevy of exuberant dancers attired in striking B & W costuming . It should have been saved for the finale , but there's still a little more plotting devices to straighten out in which ERIK RHODES shines as the real co-respondent and ERIC BLORE does his waiter routine for maximum chuckles . Summing up : Good fun all the way through , one of the best thanks to a marvelous cast .
Screwball comedy has MacMurray and Colbert floundering in mud . . .	Physical comedy of the kind we call screwball is evident throughout NO TIME FOR LOVE where Claudette Colbert and Fred MacMurray play a couple from opposite social circles . She's a magazine photographer , he's a sandhog working in a tunnel beneath the Hudson River . She's attracted to him at first sight but doesn't seem to know it - - and we know he's going to fall for her after a bunch of mishaps happen . The mishaps are piled one on top of another in typical screwball fashion with nobody making much sense . Certainly MacMurray's character is about as obnoxious and arrogant as any leading man Colbert was ever set up against , and she acts pretty irresponsibly in that tunnel where she gets up to her neck in trouble and mud - - lots of mud . But somehow , it's all very watchable with a cast that knows exactly how to play this sort of thing . Claude Binyon had a way with writing slight romantic comedies and he gives Colbert and MacMurray some bright lines to work with . Others fortunate enough to get some good moments are Richard Haydn , Ilka Chase , June Havoc and Rod Cameron . If you look closely you can spot Tom Neal in the background as one of the sandhogs . It doesn't make a lot of sense when you stop to think about it , but it's fun while it lasts , thanks mainly to MacMurray and Colbert who can do this kind of romp effortlessly . Funniest bit : As MacMurray exits in final scene carrying Colbert like a caveman over his back , Richard Haydn says : " I'll drop by for supper tomorrow night . " " Not tomorrow night , " says Colbert . Wink . Wink .
The magic is still there but the plot is thinner than ever . . .	The plot is a silly one that has Astaire as Petrov , ballet dancer , chasing a musical comedy star , Ginger Rogers , across the ocean with the usual amount of misunderstandings that keep them apart until the finale . But , as with all FRED ASTAIRE and GINGER ROGERS films , it's the music that counts - - and the dance numbers . Fred has an amazing " Slap That Bass " number aboard ship , one of his best solo jobs , but there are only a few other gems in the Gershwin score , like " They Can't Take That Away From Me " , " They All Laughed at Christopher Columbus " and " Let's Call The Whole Thing Off . " Somehow , they don't get the treatment they deserve but all have become popular standards . Although the songs are pleasant enough , they're not among Gershwin's best - - and the plot is so flimsy it's almost non-existent , something about Astaire and Rogers being mistaken for a married couple . Fans of the dancing stars will love it and others may find it just slightly less entertaining than some of the other Astaire / Rogers films . The supporting roles are in the capable hands of ERIC BLORE , EDWARD EVERETT HORTON and JEROME COWAN , but they've all been seen to better advantage in other screwball comedies . Mark Sandrich directed in his usual fast paced style , but I couldn't help noticing that Ginger seemed a little bored with her character .
Pleasant version of the Austen tale . . . richly detailed settings . . .	NORTHANGER ABBEY is a charming version of the Jane Austen tale , covering somewhat familiar Austen territory in its tale of a young woman who comes to a vast estate and falls in love with an aristocratic young man who is willing to give up his inheritance to marry her , if he must . It's beautifully lensed in color with excellent vistas of the English countryside and some impeccable performances from a first rate cast . FELICITY JONES and JJ FIELD are excellent as the young lovers , whether exchanging dialog that is on the humorous side or deadly serious , and CATHERINE WALKER is fine as Jones ' confidante , Eleanor . Time constraints make it impossible to ever do full justice to Austen's stories , but fans of the author should find this an enchanting enough version of the tale to satisfy Janite admirers , even if there are many omissions in the telling . Very worthwhile , with high quality production values throughout .
Sinatra does his thing in a one man show . . .	There's a very ' 65 look to this TV special with FRANK SINATRA belting out his songs on some very simple sets , backed by the graceful orchestral arrangements of Nelson Riddle and Gordon Jenkins . He's totally at ease but his quips could have been better scripted . Howevever , he does justice to a dozen songs and never loses his poise or his cool . The numbers are : Without A Song , I Get A Kick Out of You , Nancy with the Laughing Face , My Kind of Town , It Was A Very Good Year , Young at Heart , The Girl Next Door , Beautiful Girl , Come Fly With Me , I've Got the World on a String , Witchcraft , You Make Me Feel So Young and Put Your Dreams Away . Should please all Sinatra fans .
A busy life in the day of Inspector Gideon of Scotland Yard . . .	JOHN FORD seems a strange choice to be directing a British film starring JACK HAWKINS in the role of a very busy Scotland Yard inspector who has no time for anyone else in his domestic life as long as he's on the trail of various culprits . ANNA LEE is his patient wife at home who's more concerned with raising two children and cooking meals to pay much attention to her husband's urgent calls of duty . It's a very fragmented kind of story-telling , more a series of vignettes featuring Hawkins in his role as detective , getting able assistance from JOHN LODER ( Hedy Lamarr's ex-hubby during the ' 40s ) . He covers cases involving a psychotic killer , a hit and run murder and a bank robbery - - with some wit and sardonic humor injected into all the proceedings by director Ford . DEREK BOND , ANDREW RAY and ANNA MASSEY ( her film debut ) round out the supporting cast . Summing up : Above average thanks to some interesting , very flawed characters involved in crime and a brisk pace and brief running time that deserves praise in this day of films that go on and on forever , although the film was not a critical or commercial success .
Hitchcock loses his touch . . . slim story is over-glamorized . . .	All this talk about the chemistry between ice princess Kelly and debonair Grant is a lot of nonsense . They're just two perfectly photogenic people who happen to be cast in the same less than satisfying romantic mystery - - she has the camera in love with her ( probably the director as well ) and he's still an attractive - - if older - - leading man . That's it . And neither of them can disguise the fact that they're stuck in a glamorous but lightweight Hitchcock film that has the slimmest of plots - - an innocent man is thought to be the one committing the current crimes among the rich on the Riviera - - a man with a past history as a thief . And it's played more for comedy than mystery . And that's it , in a nutshell . Hitchcock seems more concerned that GRACE KELLY is gowned in all of the latest fashions that will look good in Technicolor and that CARY GRANT will look impressive enough as her co-star to make everyone forget the age difference . He rounded up some real pros for a supporting cast , including JOHN WILLIAMS as an urbane detective and JESSIE ROYCE LANDIS as Kelly's mother ( she was Grant's mother in NORTH BY NORTHWEST ) . But it's fluff - - sumptuously mounted fluff and nothing more . Women will sigh over Grace Kelly's many costumes ( even Lana Turner would be envious ) , and men will wish they had a chance to tour the Riviera with Grace as a guide . The suspense is a mere piffle with only one really suspenseful moment on a rooftop with Grant exposing the real culprit - - and the one-liners meant to titillate are almost puerile by comparison with the witticisms in other Hitchcock films of this nature . The accent is more on comedy than thrills and the result is one of the weakest Hitchcock films from this period . Sorry . The heavy accent on glittering Hollywood glamor is not enough to sustain interest in a basically dull and obvious script , although it's easy to see why the color cinematography of lovely Riviera backgrounds brought the film an Oscar for Robert Burk . Hitchcock should have drawn a better performance from Grace Kelly instead of concentrating on her Oscar-nominated wardrobe .
Enjoyable , gorgeous to look at version of the Austen story . . .	I had no trouble enjoying MANSFIELD PARK because I had no comparison to make to the novel , which I never read . I saw nothing about it that made me think it was catering to 1999's sensibilities , despite the use of a scene where someone is caught in flagrante with another . Aside from that indiscretion , the dialog seemed like authentic Austen to me and the whole affair has been expertly photographed in England , of course , on lush locales that are breathtakingly gorgeous to look at . The swirling camera swerves often from the interior of a room to the vast horizons outside with the greatest of ease . And , of course , the British cast cannot be praised highly enough . All of them perform to the manor born in the appropriate style . FRANCES O'CONNOR ( who closely resembles a young Jennifer Jones ) is Fanny Price , the poor girl sent to live with rich relatives at Mansfield Park , who becomes an elegant young woman and a writer . ( Sounds suspiciously like the author herself inserting her character on this role ) . And JONNY LEE MILLER is Edmund Bertram , a young man obviously smitten with her from the start . It takes the entire running time of the film for the young lovers to discover they always did love each other , but along the way we're treated to some interesting episodes of British class distinction amid the manners and mores of a bygone era , including some sharp bits of humor . Interesting that after essaying this quiet , unassuming role , Jonny Lee Miller would next take on the fight against a vampire in Dracula 2000 . So much for British dexterity and range . Summing up : Some admirers of the novel seem to be put off by this one , but I have to admit I enjoyed it , even if I did find Fanny's inconsistent feelings about her suitor , Henry , and her inability to make up her mind , rather frustrating at times .
Griffith stars Gish and Barthelmess in tragic tale of operatic excesses . . .	I have to preface my remarks by stating that BROKEN BLOSSOMS , for all of its worth , is suitable only for fans of silent films who can forgive all the excesses of silent melodrama . I'm not an aficionado of silent films , but BROKEN BLOSSOMS is noteworthy for what Griffith was able to achieve on film as early as 1919 . And surprisingly , the most over-the-top performance comes from an amazing character actor , DONALD CRISP , who went on to become an unforgettable player in " talkies " years later , notably as the father in films like NATIONAL VELVET and LASSIE COME HOME . Crisp gives a wild-eyed , mouth-twisting performance that has him gnashing his teeth and looking like he's Mr . Hyde in his angry close-ups . Here , he's the meanest of the mean , a father who abuses his daughter and then becomes fiercely protective when she dares to seek shelter elsewhere from a Chinese man who wants to spread the peaceful message of Buddha to Anglo-Saxons when he travels to " the great nation across the sea " . The scene shifts to the Limehouse district of London where his dreams are tested by the sordid realities of life - - like opium dens . Enter Battling Burrows ( DONALD CRISP ) as the gorilla-like prizefighter who is the villain of the piece , in full swaggering mode and chewing the scenery with relish . Forlorn looking and frail , LILLIAN GISH wanders into the story at this point and we're told she's been badly treated by her brute of a father . Since she's treated no better than a doormat , we can tell where the story is going . Naturally , she ends up in a dead faint near the Chinaman's store and he takes her in , giving her shelter , warmth and kindness that she never had before . Truthfully , Gish never manages to look like the fifteen year old girl she's supposed to be playing and her wan performance seems rather one note . Looking forlorn seemed to be her staple . As with most silent films , the pacing is very slow and it's a good thirty-five minutes before Gish and Barthelmess even meet and the story picks up more interest . And let me say that by today's standards , the scenes of mistreatment in " the house of suffering " are ludicrous before Gish retreats to the streets and is taken in by Barthelmess . A tender moment in the film has a title card sure to provoke some chuckles when Gish says to Barthelmess : " What makes you so good to me , Chinky ? " Close-ups of Gish are not the most flattering , as others here seem to think . Instead , her tiny mouth and pinched face give her a look much older than her years that cannot be softened by soft focus photography . Barthelmess , on the other hand , has the looks and bearing of a romantic star even in his Oriental make-up and gives the film's most natural performance - - at least until the last fifteen minutes . POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD The melodramatic ending has Battling Burrows seeking revenge , outraged that his daughter is living under the same roof with her Chinaman protector . Unfortunately , the last fifteen minutes of the film reek of unabashed melodramatic excesses as the story delves into even darker territory with Gish's death at the hands of her abusive father and the Chinaman's eventual suicide after killing the brute . The excesses are so over-the-top that you almost expect the characters to sing an operatic aria before dying . Summing up : If you're a silent film fan , you may find this one worth watching . Everyone else , beware . It's not for every taste .
Interesting segment of the Inspector Lynley Mysteries . . .	Nathaniel Parker and Sharon Small do their detective work in a nice episode , well scripted and developing a clever story with a good amount of suspense as the action moves to The House of Lords after a man's dead body is found floating in the Thames . Aptly titled : The Seed of Cunning , it's well worth a watch . Several interesting and highly suspicious suspects keep the detectives in the dark until the last twenty minutes when plot developments happen at a fast pace . Turns out that three of the people at The House of Lords are responsible for the death of a doorman that has something to do with the smuggling of documents involving a government deal to award America a contract on a business deal over the U . K . Crisp direction , photographed with visual style in grand settings , indoor and out , with the posh look of a Grade A movie .
Old-fashioned swashbuckler is still a rollicking good time for all . . .	The only ingredient missing in THE PRISONER OF ZENDA ( ' 37 ) is Technicolor , but it's masterfully photographed by James Wong Howe in glorious B & W and the cast is exceptionally fine . The story is the familiar one about a man forced to masquerade as a King of a fictional country ( Ruritania ) while all sorts of intrigue and cunning schemes are going on at the palace . RONALD COLMAN has the central role and MADELEINE CARROLL is the gorgeous aristocratic Princess Flavia that he falls in love with . Produced in lavish style by David O . Selznick , with stirring music by Alfred Newman and directed by John Cromwell , it's the sort of escapist entertainment audiences needed then - - and now . DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS , JR . plays the wicked Rupert of Hentzau with devilish charm , the man who is in on an audacious plan to hold the real King Rupert hostage for ransom , and RAYMOND MASSEY does his usual villainous turn as Michael , the prisoner of Zenda's brother , the man who wants the throne for himself . In a small role as Massey's wife , MARY ASTOR makes almost no impression at all . On the debit side , there's a strictly 1930's storybook flavor to the way the story is told , particularly the love scenes between Colman and Carroll . Their histrionics get a little too over-heated during that final scene during which her nobility in willing to forget " a moment of madness " seems more like a story contrivance . True love never does run smooth , not here and not in Shakespeare . The duel between Colman and Fairbanks is well staged and makes an exciting finale for a slow-paced tale that becomes a bit too talky at times . Still , despite obvious drawbacks , it's an entertaining story told with a dashing amount of romance and intrigue . Madeleine Carroll was never more beautiful .
John Huston's tribute to the artist is poster art but downbeat . . .	John Huston's portrait of Henri Toulouse-Lautrec is vivid , colorful and energetic when it shows the dance hall can-can atmosphere but lacks substance as a biography when it deals with the painter's personal life in detail . However , JOSE FERRER does splendidly as the crippled artist and others around him give individually fine performances . The cinematography cannot be faulted , capturing the essence of the painter's art as closely as any poster art could do - - and the film seems authentically immersed in period atmosphere and background . But the story is a sluggish one with a downbeat ending that concludes with the artist's death and despair - - nothing uplifting about it - - and the somber tones of the film are reflected in the sometimes low-key photography of interiors . Worthwhile for Ferrer's Oscar-winning performance and a distinguished musical score - - but a bit too downbeat for popular taste .
Far-fetched British musical about an inconvenient deception . . .	The trouble with EVERGREEN is that it lacks the pizazz of even the most average Hollywood musical and only comes to life during two of its biggest production numbers - - which occur when the film is almost over . As introduced by Robert Osborne , apparently the star , JESSIE MATTHEWS , was seen as a threat to Ginger Rogers at the time , although their dancing styles were never in any way similar . Matthews concentrates on flowing movements and high kicking routines that resemble those that Charlotte Greenwood is famous for . In no way does she suggest anything approaching the tap dancing and ballroom dancing of Rogers . The songs may have been penned by none other than Richard Rodgers , but they're entirely unmemorable and cliché-ridden with titles like " Springtime in My Heart " warbled in shrill soprano style by Matthews . Only three songs from the original British musical survived and none of them registers as strong enough to make it to a stage musical . A number of routines are done by clunky , overweight chorus girls in unflattering costumes . The entire impersonation angle seems to strain credibility at every turn . Sorry for the negative comments , but compared to the glossier MGM products of the day ( namely , DANCING LADY with Joan Crawford and Clark Gable ) , EVERGREEN fails to reach that level of professionalism . The film does come alive toward the finale with two big production numbers , but by that time the silly plot contrivance of a girl posing as her own mother from a previous time - - and in love with a man who must pretend to be her son - - has worn its welcome . Another example of a British musical vs . the Hollywood style , where Hollywood wins .
Succeeds brilliantly as entertainment . . . fine animation . . .	There was a preoccupation with paranoia about invasion from aliens that permeated all the science fiction in the ' 50s . This story builds on that fear by giving us an E . T . sort of encounter with an alien , in this case a super-sized piece of metal called THE IRON GIANT , who is saved from extinction by a little boy who pulls the " Off " switch when it appears the Giant is about to be electrocuted . It's stunning right from the opening scenes , animated with fresh originality and voiced by some expert actors ( HARRY CONNICK , JR . , VAN DIESEL , CLORIS LEACHMAN and the little boy voiced by ELI MARIENTHAL ) . Not only is the story engrossing , but there's a humanization of " the creature from outer space " that defies description . The animators manage to make his thought process apparent with minimal dialog and you can really feel for his emotions when he is asked to perform a noble act ( at the climax ) in order to save mankind from a fate worse than death . There's an effective background score by Michael Kamen , without the songs that seem to irritate some devotees of animated films , and it moves briskly at a pleasing pace that should keep young and old riveted to the sometimes magical events . Briskly entertaining and well worth watching - - among the best of the animated films based on pure fantasy . The very expert voice-overs make the characters seem amazingly real .
Some spellbinding moments but not totally credible . . .	For an effective chiller that has several well-executed scenes of horror , THE OMEN moves at too leisurely a pace under Richard Donner's direction . GREGORY PECK and LEE REMICK are a good pair as the parents of a little boy who turns out to be the Anti-Christ , a fact they slowly become aware of after a number of strange things start happening . The sequences where he raises the Devil , so to speak , are the most harrowing in the whole tale - - but happen after too many talky moments take away some of the interest . HARVEY STEPHENS plays the malicious youngster ( his blond hair dyed black ) and his efforts resulted in a Golden Globe nomination as Best Actor in a Debut Role . But oddly enough , he soon disappeared from the screen and today is a successful businessman in London . However , Jerry Goldsmith's fascinating background score did win him a well-deserved Oscar for Best Scoring of a Dramatic Film . BILLIE WHITELAW is also effective as the boy's nanny , who is anything but a Mary Poppins type . She too was highly acclaimed for her sinister interpretation of a woman who has already made her own pact with the Devil . None of it is altogether convincing , but it sustains interest with its interesting camera-work and location filming . Peck is rather low-key and somber in the lead , but David WARNER as a photographer friend does nicely in a thankless supporting role and LEE REMICK does her usual fine work . Chilling stuff , perhaps a bit tame by today's standards , but worth a look .
Harry and his Tonto . . . another buddy flick but with a difference . . .	ART CARNEY and his orange tabby take a cross-country odyssey when he loses his lodgings in a rundown NYC building being converted to a garage . He leaves his friendly , somewhat eccentric friends in his neighborhood , makes a brief stab at living with impossible relatives and then heads for the open road again . He's independent in every way except one - - he won't live without his cat Tonto either at his side or in tow . The situations are a little extreme . He disembarks from his bus ride so that the cat can relieve itself and then can't find Tonto when the cat runs off . He does find his cat and they continue their journey , meeting up with a few other kookie characters on the way . 56 year-old Carney , in age make-up , does a remarkable job of holding audience interest while he spends much of the time addressing his remarks to Tonto . Geraldine Fitzgerald has a nice bit as an old flame , now in an old age home . Nothing deep here . His most philospophical comment is : " Did you know that the strangest thing about being old is , all your friends are dead . " There's also a priceless moment when his nephew , Norman , who never says much , responds to ELLYN BURSTYN , " I love you too , Aunt Shirley , but you're a such a bitch . " Some editing would have trimmed the last half of the movie to a more suitable length . Two hours is a bit much for this kind of slight tale . Considering some of the great male performances that were up for Oscars that year , Carney's win is surprising . It's a rather one-note , one dimensional role - - although he makes the most of it . Good , but too many rough edges - - not quite as heart-warming as I expected it to be .
Charming comedy / drama about a couple about to divorce . . .	THE MARRYING KIND gave movie-goers a first glimpse of ALDO RAY and he proves to be every bit a match for the comic talent and dramatic abilities of JUDY HOLLIDAY . The two of them are a sheer pleasure to watch , totally good chemistry and always believable as a husband and wife on the verge of divorce . The story is told in a series of well-staged vignettes in flashback as they recount the facts of their troublesome marriage to a divorce court judge ( MADGE KENNEDY ) , who ends up believing that the two of them still love each other and can be taken off the docket for the next day's hearing . The ups and downs of the marriage are mostly due to the financial strain and the macho behavior of a man who has the need to be the breadwinner but feels he can't support his wife and children the way he'd like to on his post office salary . Ray is excellent at suggesting the moods of a man who misunderstands many a situation because he can't see beyond the money angle . A very revealing scene at a butcher shop where the butcher talks common sense about the realities of life , is a fine piece of writing and beautifully played . Both Holliday and Ray shine in what is almost a two-character film , especially in the second half - - and their arguments have the ring of truth in them , with money and temperament being the strain that seems to be the root cause of their problems . A touching film , serious at times but basically a romantic comedy directed with great skill by George Cukor ( who said he could only direct women ? ) . Ray does a masterful job in his breakthrough film . Summing up : Highly recommended . Clever screenplay by Ruth Gordon and Garson Kanin .
Cleverly contrived plot with a stunning Herrmann score . . .	Brian dePalma really accomplished quite a feat by paying homage to Hitchcock with a strong variation on VERTIGO's theme - - a man who loses the woman he loves sees her reincarnated in another woman and then loses her too . He takes this premise and does some fancy camera-work that swirls around the lovers with an intensity only matched by the whirling colors of Bernard Herrmann's magical score . He sets up the tale by having a convincing kidnapping take place in which his wife and daughter are taken by the criminals and has him mourning their loss until he encounters another woman in Italy , years later , who strongly resembles his presumably dead wife . The rest of the plot must remain undisclosed for " spoiler " purposes , but I'm sure there are those who will at least have a suspicion as to the real purpose of all the foregoing events . CLIFF ROBERTSON has the difficult chore of appearing downtrodden and depressed most of the time , so GENEVIEVE BUJOLD has the task of brightening up the tale with her unconventional good looks and upbeat manner . JOHN LITHGOW makes his screen debut as Robertson's close friend and business acquaintance . If it's a stylish dePalma movie you're in the mood for , this one will fill the bill nicely . And that Bernard Herrmann score alone makes watching the movie completely worthwhile . It's dazzling .
Imelda Staunton steals the film . . . a darker than usual Potter . . .	For a film that has been doing fantastic box-office business , one would hope that HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX would be a much more energized and fascinating movie than it is . Instead , it's like watching a rehash of previous Potter subplots , previous ingredients stirred into a new stew leading to a climactic confrontation with Lord Voldemort that ends in a blaze of fireworks . But the few " big " action scenes , while well staged with all the CGI effects bound to please the Potter fans , are hampered by a rather dull and listless storyline that has Potter looking at the dark center within himself as he plots how to avenge the dark forces trying to destroy him . And even the humor that is usually so much a part of these films is lacking , probably because EMMA WATSON and RUPERT GRINT have so little do do with the main action . But as a consolation , there are some striking performances , especially IMELDA STAUNTON as the overbearing and strict disciplinarian who injects a lot of humor into her wickedness . The film is fortunate to have her in a key role . Not much can be said for EMMA THOMPSON and MAGGIE SMITH who speak no more than a few lines , but ALAN RICKMAN and GARY OLDMAN at least have much more to do in supporting roles . Even the main villain of the piece , RALPH FIENNES as Lord Voldemort , has little actual screen time . One big ingredient the film has going for it is the background score by Nicholas Hooper which gives zest to the action scenes and the proper mood to all the dark sequences - - of which there are plenty . Some of the sets are richly detailed and atmospheric , but too much of the photography takes place in the dark . Summing up : A so-so chapter in the Potter series . Hard to see why this one is proving to be such box-office gold when the story is less than satisfying .
Sumptuous looking version of the " Bertram " story with interesting changes . . .	On one point I have to agree - - that the sound quality ( especially for the dialog ) needed improvement . But I found a solution for this whenever I watch a British-made film . I use the CAPTION FEATURE on my remote . Works every time . I never have to miss a word of plot and when watching a mystery , this is very important . I could toss the same complaint at GOSFORD PARK , the Robert Altman film that had so much cockney dialog and busy music score in the background that I couldn't understand a thing when I didn't use the caption feature . But putting aside the hearing complaint , AT BERTAM'S HOTEL was a fascinating story , even with the added twists and added characters , and not hard to follow at all . I think the screenwriter did an excellent job of putting some nice touches on the original Agatha Christie story . I wish , in fact , that he'd been the writer who did the updated version of MURDER IS EASY ( ' 82 ) ( with Helen Hayes and Olivia de Havilland in cameo roles ) . That was scripted by Carmen Culver who made a mess of updating it . Too bad Tom MacRae wasn't available then . GERTRUDE McEWEN does a nice job as Jane Marple , but I confess I thought Jean Hickson was the best of all the Miss Marples . You could actually see those little gray cells working when the camera caught her face in pensive close-ups . The settings are opulent , the mystery is a clever one , the cast of players are extremely talented and , aside from the changes that were made adding or changing certain characters to the story , AT BERTRAM'S HOTEL still makes fascinating viewing . Summing up : Just remember to use that CAPTION feature on your remote if you're lucky enough to have bought a set that includes it .
Culinary Expert comes to the help of helpless housewife . . .	This is a rehash of a similar short produced a few years earlier called " Menu " . Like the previous short , this one is also in Technicolor , much improved over the intervening years , and stars PRUDENCE PENNY , a culinary expert who specialized in home economics and wrote a column a Chicago newspaper . As in the previous short , a housewife is badly in need of help before company arrives with her husband . She calls for the services of Prudence Penny , who shows up prepared to whip up a meal on short notice . The results look appetizing enough , especially in color . Once again , the best feature of this short is the narration which manages to remain bright and witty throughout . By the time it's over , you may want to whip up a little snack for yourself .
Something about weirdos that'll have you laughing so hard that it hurts . . .	THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY that has every man in the film falling for her ( sometimes literally ) in a comedy that moves along with gay abandon and no shortage of slapstick silliness . Mary is played with breezy style by CAMERON DIAZ ( a throwback perhaps to Carole Lombard's wackiness in this sort of thing ) , and , of course , BEN STILLER gets to play the lovesick fool who ruins his first prom date with her by getting stung by his zipper . There are too many sight gags here to enumerate , but the funniest have to do with Mary's dog and the other is the famous scene where hair-gel takes on a new meaning . MATT DILLON is the sleazy friend who agrees to find the missing Mary after many years have separated Stiller and Diaz , only to find that he's instantly in love with her too . Naturally , he tells Stiller that she's turned into a blimp in a wheelchair - - and you can predict that when Stiller finds out the truth there will be hell to pay . Hilarious moments dominate the breezy comedy from the Farrelly Brothers , full of visual and verbal gags that are non-stop until the last moment . By all means , worth seeing unless you're completely grossed out by this type of humor .
Could have been a whole lot more effective but Henreid is good . . .	It occurred to me , while watching HOLLOW TRIUMPH ( or THE SCAR ) , that the script would have been a lot more interesting if the JOHN QUALEN character ( the dentist ) had been a sly blackmailer . The scene where he has a private talk with bad guy Henried and says something about how he notices small details could have evolved into a blackmailing scheme that would have added interest to the story . POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD Another factor : Whenever we have someone impersonating someone else in a Hollywood film , it always turns out that they should have known more about the person's background - - because there's always a deadly enemy who wants his justice , thereby leading to a predictable ending . In other words , I knew PAUL HENRIED would never be getting on that boat to make his escape with JOAN BENNETT . It's all in the details . On the plus side , the film is effectively photographed in film noir style , is brisk and well paced , features a good central performance by PAUL HENRIED and at least gives JOAN BENNETT a chance to look good in all of her close-ups . But Bennett's part is severely underwritten and implausible when you stop to think about it . She gives it some gusto but is never completely convincing . All in all , a fairly good thriller with a few loopholes - - such as why didn't anyone but a cleaning woman notice anything strange about the placement of the scar ? Even his wife ( LESLIE BROOKS ) , busy with her compact and make-up , failed to notice . Come on . Not bad , but could have been a whole lot more effective .
Handsomely staged Christie story is well acted . . .	As with all of the Agatha Christie stories on film , this one strays a bit from the novel but not enough to be as severely criticized as some other comments would suggest . Most of the storyline is intact , it being the tale of Mrs . McGillicuddy ( PAM FERRIS ) , who witnesses a murder from a train window and inspires Jane Marple ( GERALDINE McEWAN ) to do some detective work , tracing the murder to the Crackenthorpe estate . David WARNER , who made such an indelible impression on me as the villain of TITANIC , is the crusty invalid , Mr . Crackenthorpe , head of the family , all of whom become suspects when Miss Marple's friend , Lucy , ( AMANDA HOLDEN ) agrees to be a housekeeper at the estate so that she can search the grounds for the murdered woman's body . All of it is extremely watchable due to some gorgeous color photography of exteriors and interiors and some likable performances from the splendid cast . JOHN HANNAH is amusing as the detective aided by Miss Marple and all of the suspects become rather interesting characters before the story reaches its conclusion . One of the better entries in the series , although I have to add that GERALDINE McEWAN is just a bit too droll as Miss Marple , never giving the impression that she has the capability to do any real detective work but merely giving the impression that she's a charming and sweet little old lady .
Long , long movie from short F . Scott Fitzgerald story . . .	THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON is only half successful . First of all , if there are any Oscars to give out here it's got to be for whomever did the miraculous make-up jobs . Technical awards category might give this one a few Oscars for visual effects and cinematography . And the music by Alexandre Desplat is gorgeous . But the story is a ponderous one , something about the time warp that occurs if a person ages backwards and keeps getting younger than all his contemporaries - - but as fascinating as that concept might be , it takes a much better grip on fantasy to work for a movie that runs two hours and forty-seven minutes . Frankly , there isn't enough of a story here to sustain such a lengthy film . How many of us have to worry about getting younger each year , so where's the connection ? And towards the middle , it really starts to sag , despite some good performances from a first-rate cast performing brilliantly under Bryan Singer's direction . BRAD PITT has certainly chosen an unusual role to play and he does it with his customary capabilities intact . CATE BLANCHETT is outstanding as Daisy , the childhood sweetheart who grows up to be the love of his life , but her motivations are sometimes vague and her character is sometimes irritating . Most interesting supporting roles are well played by TARAJI P . HENSON as Queenie who finds the foundling Benjamin and raises him as her own , and JASON FLEMYNG as the boy's wayward father who abandons the baby . The biggest hurdle for BENJAMIN BUTTON to jump is making the story seem credible , as fantastic as the concept is . But since the concept istelf isn't grounded in any sort of reality , it's too big a leap to make . Should find its special target audience in fans who love the arty type of flick , no matter how slow moving the story may be . But in the end , it's all rather meaningless . After all , is anybody else in the world going to have Benjamin's unique problem ? Only in the movies - - or if your name is Dorian Gray .
Stylish , handsomely produced thriller using Stephen King characters . . .	Using the Stephen King characters from " Rose Red , " THE DIARY OF ELLEN RIMBAUER is a prequel to that little saga of a monstrous house that seems to be devouring its victims . This version of the Rose Red story is handsomely photographed and well acted but suffers from a script that never really bothers to explain anything . The viewer is left pondering plot details up until the very end , when again there is a letdown of even more ambiguity . Nevertheless , it manages to impress with the performances , the settings , the costumes and the plot itself is a mixed bag of so many thrillers from the past , even including the more genteel JANE EYRE or any of the Victorian novels that dealt with a house of dark decay and a sinister leading man . STEVEN BRAND is the darkly handsome head of the household whose soul is corrupted by carnal desires , an unfaithful man who brings his bride LISA BRENNER to live in Rose Red , where she is gradually subjected to all sorts of vague fears and terrors and things that go bump in the night . It's really silly stuff , not to be taken seriously , but does give rise to some goosebumps once in awhile . Eventually , the murky plot just gets muddier and all of the elements mesh into one big , slow-paced thriller that is efficient enough to produce a few chills but too ambiguous for its own good .
Edmund Gwenn steals a warm-hearted Lassie film . . .	Although this is a minor Lassie film , it did open at the famous Radio City Music Hall in 1948 , where the showplace must have decided it was the perfect theater to show this family film - - in a theater that catered to wholesome films above all others . It's a charmer , helped considerably by the performances of EDMUND GWENN , as an old-fashioned Scottish doctor who acquires a dog who is afraid of water , and LASSIE as the collie who has to overcome his fear of water when his master is in danger and needs him to swim for help . DONALD CRISP , as Gwenn's loyal friend , and young JANET LEIGH and TOM DRAKE as the love interest , form a pleasant supporting cast responding well to Fred M . Wilcox's able direction . All the resources of the MGM studio went into recreating the Scottish settings and atmosphere that pervade the film , so much so that we can forgive the occasional lapses in the Scottish accents . It passes the time pleasantly , but is not the typical Lassie film with him displaying all sorts of intelligence and courage . And this time , EDMUND GWENN actually steals scenes from the famous collie , holding much of the spotlight with a warm and easy performance as the crusty old doctor .
A man's furtive quest for idealized beauty of youth . . .	Art film lovers would probably rank this much higher on their scale of appreciation , but I found DEATH IN VENICE , while sumptuous to look at and listen to ( the music of Gustav Mahler fills the soundtrack with his symphonic music ) , as beautiful and empty as a multi-colored seashell . It assails the senses with sensuous shots of Tadzio's youthful beauty as seen by DIRK BOGARDE , but fails to give us a narrative strong enough to sustain over two hours of story . Furthermore , it moves at a snail's pace while exploring the beauty of the seashore in Venice , spending far too much time on close-ups of Bogarde as he sinks deeper and deeper into despair over never possessing the creature he so desires . SYLVANA MANGANO , the great Italian actress , is fine as the boy's mother and the fair-haired Italian boy himself ( BJORN ANDRESEN ) is merely seen and glimpsed from afar and remains an enigma until the very end . Based supposedly on composer Gustav Mahler's personal life ( although never actually proved ) , it's the kind of film that could fill art houses in the ' 80s with high approval from the pseudo-intellectuals who claimed to have read Thomas Mann's novel and approved of the film's tasteful rendering of a difficult and , at that time , taboo subject . Beauty is in the eye of the beholder - - for some , this film is a masterpiece of its kind - - for others , beware the tranquility of the whole piece . It may put you in a dreamlike trance .
Controversial film has many striking moments . . . but limited appeal . . .	A woman about to take her vows is advised by the monastery that her uncle is very ill and has sent for her at his place in the country . It soon becomes obvious that he is attracted to her because she so resembles his dead wife . He drugs her with the intention of committing rape but cannot go through with it and later commits suicide . That's how the ingredients for a rather somber tale - - anti-Christian in its beliefs - - unfolds , rather artfully but pretentious in style . The tale itself becomes more and more convoluted as events beyond the woman's control send her life spinning in a downward spiral after her uncle's death . Her biggest mistake appears to be her decision not to return to the monastery but to stay on at the farmhouse and devote herself to helping the poor . The B & W photography is fittingly sensuous and romantic in style , the choral background is effective , and the Spanish cast does an excellent job . Motives ( religious no doubt ) seem obscured by a tale that becomes more and more difficult to accept as a parable of man's repentance and sinful nature . " You must think I'm mad , " the uncle tells the young woman at one point , before he makes clear his intention to marry her . And from that point on , the film delves deeper and deeper into the darker aspects of the strange story , which many found unsettling and caused controversy because of the religious implications . Unusual and thought-provoking , but with decidedly limited appeal .
Somewhat effective anti-war film making parallel to boy gangs . . .	It's hard to understand what made a director like Frank Borzage attach himself to this project . There's no female lead , no love interest at all , just a gang of boys in Germany determined to hold onto a piece of property and waging war against each other to hold onto a vacant lot . It's supposed to symbolize what's wrong with men playing at war games much the way these boys are affected by WWI's deadly consequences . The boys are natural actors for the most part with FRANKIE DARRO standing out in an unusual role for him . The only female in the cast is LOIS Wilson as the mother of the weakest boy who succumbs to illness after ill treatment by the rival gang - - but who desperately wants to be a part of the good guys gang . Played by GEORGE P . BREAKSTON , he too does a convincing job . Given the spare use of sets for most of the scenes , it looks more like a B-film than an A-film from Columbia . Certainly it's a low-budget entry and made no big impression on film history since it's rarely ever seen these days and remains largely unknown among Frank Borzage's works . I found it rather manipulative in the way it played with emotional scenes and not all of the character motivations seemed genuine .
Jacqueline Bisset is the main reason for watching this retread of ' Rosemary's Baby ' . . .	Whatever moral issues exist in this strange tale of the occult , they vanish as soon as you accept the premise of this story - - that a woman would kill another to repossess her husband with both of them in the guise of someone else's body ! ! It's about as weird as any Tales from the Crypt ! On the plus side , all of it is stylishly photographed and played with a certain amount of relish , at least by Jacqueline Bisset , Curt Jurgens and Bradford Dillman . Biggest flaw is casting Alan Alda in the central role as the pianist who inherits the musical talent of Curt Jurgens when the Satanist dies , bequeathing Alda with his body and soul . Bisset is the wife who slowly comes to suspect that her husband has been taken over by someone else . Not quite as strikingly original as " Rosemary's Baby " , it does have some effective horror moments , notably involving scenes with a rather ferocious black dog and a scene where the Devil is summoned but we never actually see him . Imagination is given free reign here ( at least fleetingly ) , shades of Val Lewton . Perhaps a technique that should have been used more often throughout . None of it quite makes sense and the ending is a distinct letdown , but there are some chilling moments nevertheless . Bisset and Parkins are beautifully photographed , with Bisset coming out ahead in the acting department , playing the stressed out wife with appropriate fear and tension . Parkins , on the other hand , seems to rely on one frozen expression , sleepwalking through her role , relying solely on her looks to get by in a way that Hedy Lamarr was often accused of doing in films of the ' 40s . As for Alan Alda , he is much too bland , lending neither interest nor credibility to a role that demands a strong romantic lead . His career suggests that he is clearly more comfortable in character roles requiring comic flair , not straight dramatic parts . Bradford Dillman is at least a stronger presence in a lesser role . All in all , not bad for watching when you're in the mood for a tale of the occult . I seem to recall enjoying the book years ago and the film doesn't quite measure up . It emerges as one of those films that could have been much more satisfying with better casting and direction .
Scenes from 1900s showing before and after the famous San Francisco quake . . .	The great , bustling city by the bay is shown in actual newsreel footage , a thriving metropolis of streetcars , horse and carriage , crowded neighborhoods of poor wooden houses , the Chinatown area , the opera house , the capitol , the railroad station , etc . , all while people go about their daily business on the streets of San Francisco . Interesting to note how the cars or buggies wove right around and across tracks carrying moving streetcars , as though there was no real traffic system to stop the ever moving flow of traffic . Also interesting to note the rather stiff fashions of 1906 which look far too overdressed and uptight for today's viewers . Then , after twenty minutes or so of pleasant everyday scenes , the tone changes to show the city immediately after and during the quake , with crumbling buildings making it look like a war zone and fires beginning to rage within the city which had no way to douse the flames since all the water mains were broken . Helplessly , firemen and policemen and citizens stood by and watched while the whole city was reduced to a pile of rubble . Fascinating to see how plucky the citizens were and in a short time were bent on rebuilding the entire city . At the finale , we see the preparations for the 1915 World's Fair which managed to be , as one old timer said , " The only thing I can say - - magnificent " . Scenes from the fair show it at night , all lit up and indeed looking magical after all that devastation . Good segment in the " American Experience " tradition .
Nothing is what it seems . . . imperfect but interesting . . .	THE ILLUSIONIST is a satisfying magic show , but not quite up to the standards I expected . One factor that was especially disappointing : any discerning viewer could easily see what the final plot twist would be long before the secret is revealed . Still , it has a certain fascination for any fan of mystery , suspense , Gothic detective stories or any sort of story involving these ingredients . EDWARD NORTON is Eisenheim , the magician who fascinates audiences with his clever sleight of hand and amazing tricks that seem to indicate he can bring to life dead spirits . PAUL GIAMATTI is effective as Inspector Uhl who doggedly determines to find out just what's going on behind the illusions , as much to placate his own need to know as it is to satisfy Crown Prince Leopold ( RUFUS SEWELL ) who has an agenda of his own for wanting the illusionist thrown into prison . It seems that his fiancé ( JESSICA BIEL ) has been a childhood sweetheart of the magician . Rufus Sewell gives the film's strongest performance as Crown Prince Leopold , with Norton appearing a bit uneasy in the pivotal role of the man behind the illusions . The film's biggest flaw is the last portion of the story , which has the detective putting the pieces of the puzzle together as a last minute fix for the story's conclusion . It doesn't strike a truthful chord since the plot was much too complicated to be solved by a few bits and pieces of the inspector's memory . Summing up : Interesting , lots of atmosphere , beautifully photographed with an appropriate score by Paul Glass that captures the mood perfectly .
Well crafted horror but definitely not for the faint of heart . . .	Just came across this one while surfing the net and it had me hooked from the first few scenes , although I missed the start of the film . Knowing the subject matter , I thought I'd be changing the channel on my remote after a quick glimpse , but stayed with it , largely due to the presence of GUY PEARCE in one of the leading roles . It's a pretty intense experience and what incredibly demanding roles physically for Pearce and ROBERT CARLYLE , as the maniacal man addicted to human flesh . The scene where Pearce jumps off a cliff to escape the clutches of the man in hot pursuit of killing him , is incredibly filmed . The stunt men on this one certainly earned their pay , since two of the men were involved in spectacular falls in what has to be one of the most brilliant tracking shots I've ever seen , capturing every moment of the action . But the most punishment goes to the viewer able to stick with the film to the bloody finish . It's relentlessly gory and gets darker as the story progresses from one unpredictable scene to another , in what amounts to a virtual overkill ( pun intended ) , even for a horror movie fan . If you can handle the gruesome subject , it's a well-crafted film in every other respect - - never boring and moving swiftly to the final physical confrontation between Pearce and Carlyle . Good work by David ARQUETTE and NEAL McDONOUGH makes for a very compelling film that is not the sort one expects to find in the horror genre . The only real flaw is that it would be physically impossible for two men to summon enough strength to fight each other given the wounds they suffered and inflicted on each other . Carlyle and Pearce kept coming back from each deathly encounter like Jason in " Friday the 13th " . Perhaps this was intentional on the part of the director to give the film a touch of black humor amidst the horror . I'll say one thing for Pearce . He certainly knows how to pick offbeat roles , judging from the number of quirky independent films on his resume .
John Payne in one of his grittier roles . . ;	JOHN PAYNE , like Dick Powell , began the earlier part of his career as the romantic leading man for Betty Grable , Alice Faye and June Haver in Fox backstage musicals - - and like Powell , when he left his singing roles in that genre he branched out into tough guy crime films or westerns when he entered the free-lancing phase of his career . KANSAS CITY CONFIDENTIAL is evidence that he succeeded in making that choice . It's a gritty crime film about a bank heist , an innocent victim ( Payne ) , the mastermind behind the heist ( PRESTON FOSTER ) , and the three hoods played by the ultimate screen villains LEE VAN CLEEF , JACK ELAM and NEVILLE BRAND . The opening scenes are guaranteed to hook you into the story , as the three hoods are trapped by a clever masked man into doing his dirty work . Once Payne has been hauled in by the police for some tough questioning , the story keeps getting more involved and more ambiguous as it suggests that Payne may want a share of the money because of all the injustices forced upon him by the police . COLEEN GRAY hasn't got much of a role but it's Payne's film all the way and he gets excellent support from everyone else . JACK ELAM takes quite a bit of physical punishment in some graphic displays of temper from Foster and Payne . Tight , suspenseful and well worth viewing , it's my kind of film noir .
After the fall as a porn star . . . drugs , death and lots of gore . . .	Although there are a number of flashback techniques used throughout WONDERLAND , they never become too confusing , which must be some sort of tribute to writer / director James Cox . But make no mistake about it , this is a dark story of the infamous porn star John Holmes ( VAL KILMER ) and how he becomes a drug addict who becomes mixed up in a murder of retribution that was one of the most brutal murders police in L . A . had ever seen . KILMER does a thoroughly convincing job as the addicted porn star and those around him are equally effective . Dylan McDERMOTT stands out as a member of the party animal gang that tells his version of the story to the police , followed by Kilmer's . LISA KUDROW as Holme's wife comes across as the only decent character in the story and with enough backbone and grit to deal with the situation she finds herself in . KATE BOSWORTH as the simple-minded girlfriend who dotes on Kilmer , is convincing but not very likable . ERIC BOGOSIAN is excellent as Nash , the wealthy man at the center of the robbery that leads to the murderous rampage that follows . It's a chilling look at the bleak lives of these losers and photographed with gritty realism in the L . A . scene of the ' 80s . Not as powerful as films like L . A . CONFIDENTIAL , but certainly a cut above the usual crime thriller dealing with an actual event . And despite all those flashbacks , holds interest from start to finish .
Nice blend of stories by Maugham , each with a different mood . . .	QUARTET is a subtle , understated anthology of stories by Somerset Maugham - - entertaining but decidedly uneven in presentation . Nevertheless , as a study of various British personalities among the upper classes it does manage to evoke interest without furnishing any big surprises - - which is what one usually expects from short stories . What it does do , brilliantly , is show us Maugham's keen observations on human nature . MAI ZETTERLING and IAN FLEMING star in a story about a young man who fails to follow his father's advice and almost suffers the consequences ; DIRK BOGARDE and HONOR BLACKMAN are the leads in a story about a man whose sole passion in life is to become a professional top-flight pianist but is told by FRANCOISE ROSAY that he has no such chance ; the third story is a rather dated and foolish morality tale about a kite that just didn't make much sense to me ; and the final story - - probably the best - - is about a man whose wife secretly writes a novel about her great love ( a la " Lady Chatterly's Lover " ) and is confronted by her husband who demands to know who " the man " in the story really is . CECIL PARKER and NORA SWINBURNE play the couple and they're wonderful . Nicely performed , well scripted and directed , QUARTET has an introduction by Maugham himself which manages to be self-effacing and informative .
Fast moving Harold Lloyd comedy full of energy and sight gags . . .	There's a non-stop orgy of sight gags and pratfalls throughout this Harold Lloyd comedy , FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE . Lloyd is a carefree millionaire who is dazzled by a pretty mission girl from the other side of the tracks . Once they connect , it's love at first sight and from then on Lloyd tries to please the girl and her missionary father by bringing as many new clients to their sermons as he can . He visits the local pool hall to round up a bunch of toughs by making them chase him through the streets . This leads to one of the wildest scenes in the movie as the foot chase is full of inventive gags . He succeeds in rounding up enough hooligans to fill the mission just as police arrive on the scene looking for stolen jewelry . Again , the situations are all played for broad comedy and most of it works . The climactic chase aboard a double decker bus is wildly choreographed for maximum comic effect - - but truth be told , by this time the slapstick has been piled on so thick that the final chase seems anticlimactic . By the time it's all over , you realize that Lloyd has told a story with very little plotting involved . It's a thin yarn stretched out over a series of sight gags - - all of which he executes with perfect timing . But enough is enough . It gets a bit wearisome before it's all over and boy ends up with mission girl . The End .
Medical drama is forerunner of " Not as a Stranger " . . .	CLARK GABLE is a dedicated doctor conflicted by feelings involving the workplace and romance - - almost the forerunner of the character ROBERT MITCHUM would play twenty years later ( Luke ) in NOT AS A STRANGER . The film deals with medicine much the way Stanley Kramer's film did , but it's based on a stage play and the static quality owes something to that and the lack of background music on the soundtrack . Of course it's all very dated - - a giveaway is interns supposedly making $20 a week ! ! MYRNA LOY is a selfish , wealthy young woman who wishes Gable would give her his undivided attention instead of dedicating himself to work . Gable has to assert himself at the hospital when an older physician overrules his instructions on insulin and puts a patient into shock . Gable's character here is reminiscent of Lucas Marsh in Morton Thompson's best-seller NOT AS A STRANGER as he pulls the syringe from the doctor's hand and takes charge of the procedure . There are weak moments of comedy relief , mostly from WALLACE FORD , and a maudlin performance from OTTO KRUGER that is painfully overplayed . The dialog too , tends to be preachy about the medical profession . Self-doubting and lonely , Gable shares some romantic scenes with pretty nurse ELIZABETH ALLAN who confides in him about her own uneasy feelings as a nurse dealing daily with life and death situations . The love scene is handled with such discretion it's hard to determine the plot developments that come swiftly afterwards , but after Allan's tragic death Gable resumes his romance with Loy , who realizes his work will always come first in his life . Nothing deep here , just a routine medical drama with all of its stage bound ingredients intact . Music is only used once for a restaurant scene where violins are playing a Viennese waltz , which leaves a lot of the drama feeling flat and one-dimensional . JEAN HERSHOLT has his usual role of an avuncular medical man under whom Gable intends to study abroad , but the focal point is the Gable / Loy / Allan romantic triangle . Summing up : From any standpoint , a trifle in Gable's career and notable only in that he plays a more sensitive role than usual .
Rugged conditions at location site for " Where Eagles Dare " . . .	An inaccessible , awesome setting in the Austrian Alps made it difficult for the cast and crew of WHERE EAGLES DARE , according to this promotional short for the espionage thriller starring RICHARD BURTON and CLINT EASTWOOD . Not only was it a hardship for the crew hampered by tons of heavy camera equipment , but actress MARY URE , because of an avalanche that cut off a main road , had to get to the location site in a three hour trip for ten minutes of filming . For the Austrian villagers , there were memories of Nazi tyranny at the sight of all the swastikas and military equipment and uniforms that were a painful reminder of WWII . Many of the locals worked in the film as extras . For CLINT EASTWOOD , he had to get used to the idea of wearing a military uniform rather than his usual cowboy outfit . Closing scenes of the short show the technicians loading black powder and other ingredients for the powerful explosives that were featured in the final scenes , all of which would have to go off on cue . Interesting but brief behind-the-scenes look at all the preparations that go into making a film .
The Deanna Durbin fairy-tale that started it all . . .	Judy Garland wasn't the only little girl in movies with a big voice . ONE HUNDRED MEN AND A GIRL must be why all those Jane Powell movies took shape , with Jane pestering Jose Iturbi to do this or do that while she ran through a gamut of girlish schemes . Here we have DEANNA DURBIN in her teen years trying to get her father ( ADOLPHE MENJOU ) and some unemployed musicians noticed and employed by Leopold Stokowski , and successfully too , in time for a happy ending . Deanna spends the entire film breathlessly scheming her way to gain attention for her father's out of work plight . After the smashing success of this film , Deanna was destined to spend the remainder of her career at Universal pretty much in the Little Miss Fixit role she established here with so much pep and sincerity . JANE POWELL was to do the same thing at MGM , except that her films were in Technicolor and given bigger budgets . It's all a bit dated now , taking place at a dreary time in America - - the Great Depression - - when almost everyone had problems finding , let alone holding , a job . But once DEANNA DURBIN lifts her voice in song , the film can do no wrong . This girl was magic in front of the camera and her voice was pure gold for Universal . ADOLPHE MENJOU does a nice job as her musician father and ALICE BRADY and EUGENE Palette play a rich married couple who have the good sense to help Deanna . Stokowski plays himself agreeably enough without hurting the story . Summing up : Threadbare story only works because Durbin has the energy and charm to carry it , along with her beautiful soprano voice . Should be of major interest to Durbin fans .
Sizzling chemistry heats up the screen . . . but it's old-fashioned melodrama . . .	GRETA GARBO was never a favorite of mine , so I'm not going to give the silent FLESH AND THE DEVIL a gushing review - - the sort you expect to have from a Garbo fanatic . In looking at it objectively , I find it a beautifully photographed romantic melodrama , titillating because of the subtext of homo-erotic friendship between JOHN GILBERT and LARS HANSON that threatens to become more than a subtext before the end . And Garbo's demise leaves them free to pursue their lifelong friendship . The story is simplicity itself . Two men love the same woman - - where have you heard that one before ? The difference is in the telling . Garbo is photographed to great advantage - - and so is Gilbert for that matter - - especially during their intense love scenes . When he so nobly asks his friend to look after her while he's forced to go to South Africa for several years , what happens ? They fall in love - - so that when he returns two years earlier than expected , he finds out they have married . That's the nub of the story . Under Clarence Brown's direction it moves at a leisurely pace , alternately moody and romantic , but not without some flourishes of humor to brighten things once in awhile . Summing up : Worthwhile if you're a Garbo fan - - otherwise , you might find it too melodramatic and cornball for your taste . The TCM print is in mint condition most of the way and the background score by Carl Davis is appropriate without being jarring .
Chaplin's has a hazardous day out with the family . . .	All of the deft comic touches one expects from a Charlie Chaplin short are in full bloom here . By far the best sequence is the boat chapter , wherein the shipboard characters attempt dancing on a rocky boat and everyone succumbs to seasickness . The gags are amusing , especially when Charlie enrages a jealous man by paying too much attention to the man's wife . Another very funny gag has him trying to assemble a deck chair aboard ship . Naturally , he makes the most of all his comic moments . The final sequence , called " Crossroads , " deals with a traffic incident involving an irate traffic cop and some tar . Once again , Chaplin extracts every bit of humor out of a " stuck in traffic " situation . Edna Purviance has little to do . It's virtually all Chaplin , since he wrote , produced and directed it . It's up to the Chaplin standard for a comedy short .
Misunderstandings of adult world seen through the eyes of a boy . . .	RALPH RICHARDSON was always one of the great British actors I admired , remembering him fondly for his wonderful scenes in THE FOUR FEATHERS where he is a soldier blinded by the desert sun - - and ten years later as Dr . Sloper , the overbearing father of THE HEIRESS . Here he has another great role as Baines , the butler at the British Embassy in London , who is having an affair with a mistress ( MICHELE MORGAN ) which is discovered by his jealous wife ( SONIA RENDELL ) . These are the adult relationships which lead to lies and deception when the young boy ( BOBBY HENREY ) , who is looked after by Baines when the Ambassador and his wife are too busy to care for him , misunderstands certain truths . When the jealous wife is accidentally killed , the police suspect Baines and his mistress are behind the event . The boy , who has only partial knowledge of the truth , tries to help them but only makes things worse in the end through his misunderstanding of certain key facts . The story ends on a note of disillusionment for the child . It's a simple tale and yet complex at the same time , because of the relationships . Masterfully photographed in gorgeous B & W cinematography , it captures the mood perfectly and makes for an absorbing , if rather slow-moving story , with overtones of humor and suspense under the superb direction of Carol Reed . Richardson has seldom been better , but would give an even more powerful and polished performance a year later in THE HEIRESS .
A weaker companion to " The Blackboard Jungle " . . .	BURT LANCASTER takes a lot of physical and verbal abuse from NYC street hoodlums in another gritty version of hero vs . punks from the author of THE BLACKBOARD JUNGLE . Blonde beauty DINA MERRILL is his wife whom he accuses of " graduating from Vassar with a degree in sarcasm " . As the heroic D . A . , Lancaster has the same uphill battle fighting for justice that Glenn Ford had as a schoolteacher in Evan's earlier work . But the problem is there are no new facets to the screenplay . It pretty much covers the same sort of material we've seen countless other times , with all of the incidents leading up to the courtroom climax being less than extraordinary . Some of the courtroom details are well done but overall the effect is more melodramatic than realistic . There are some serious flaws . The performances of the young toughs are often too exaggerated to emerge as truthful and undercut the realism . But Burt Lancaster anchors the story with one of his more restrained portrayals in a role that could easily have been overplayed . As persuasive as he is , he's working in a screenplay that is less than satisfying with regard to the scope and intent of the story . Unfortunately , the hoods come across too often as street tough caricatures and the courtroom conclusion is undercut by some hokey melodramatics .
Stylish thriller seems more like a made-for-TV movie . . .	Joseph Stefano ( who wrote the script for PSYCHO ) , is responsible for this script which is fine until about mid-point when the story starts to fall apart . He drops the theme of terrifying cats for awhile and then has them emerge once more just for the rather hokey climax . But it's stylishly done . You can feel Brian dePalma's influence on director David Lowell Rich right from the opening montage of cat stalkers against colorful backgrounds . There's a stately elegance to the home of the rich wheelchair bound widow ( ELEANOR PARKER ) , a home where she is presumably being protected by numerous felines roaming around freely . She needs protecting . Seems her hairdresser ( GAYLE HUNNICUTT ) is scheming with Parker's nephew to kill the woman and get a hold of her inheritance which she threatens to leave to the cats unless she is able to locate her missing nephew . It's a good little thriller with some edge of the chair moments that grip the audience , but none of it seems too plausible with stilted dialog and overly melodramatic moments that seem terribly contrived . For suspense and the compensation of watching Eleanor Parker in one of her latter day roles , it's probably worth viewing . Just don't expect anything on the level of PSYCHO .
Basil Rathbone in an early detective role . . .	When you consider that sound had only come in a couple of years before THE BISHOP MURDER CASE , the fact that the film still has a soundtrack that needs restoration is no surprise . But I did manage to see a good print of the film on TCM and the gleaming B & W photography belied the fact that this was made in 1930 . But my sole purpose for watching was to see what BASIL RATHBONE looked like in an early detective role as Philo Vance . The mystery itself seemed a lot like an Agatha Christie whodunit because the murders were staged by a clever killer who just wasn't smart enough to outwit Philo Vance . The final revelation involves a glass of wine with poison in it ( " the vessel with the pessel " film that Rathbone did with Danny Kaye comes to mind here ) . Rathbone's cleverness and manner of solving the crime is reminiscent of the way he played Sherlock Holmes so well in all those Sherlock films . He also had a crisp delivery that was lacking in the other players . Only ROLAND YOUNG managed to sound as if silent films were a thing of the past . The others were clearly still in the silent mode of acting which makes Rathbone's performance even more remarkable . Not a great mystery by any means and the sets , despite some fine photography , are on the primitive side - - but addicts of detective stories should enjoy this one .
Very melodramatic " Passing Parade " about a courageous doctor . . .	JONATHAN HALE is the courageous small-town doctor who has the strength to defy the villagers who are opposed to any doctor using surgical instruments to open the human body . When a woman becomes in need of surgery to remove a cancer , the doctor feels obliged to follow the wishes of her husband that he operate . Of course , the operation is successful and the doctor , instead of being the subject of a public hanging , is treated with the respect he deserves . Told in very melodramatic fashion , as so many of these short subjects were during the late ' 30s and throughout the ' 40s , this is an MGM short directed by Fred Zinnemann , who would soon go on to direct major projects like THE SEARCH with Montgomery Clift after serving time as a director of shorts or full-length B-films at the studio . Interesting but a bit hokey in its approach .
Interesting pre-code with Francis as a reformed prostitute . . .	Every once in awhile a viewer can become aware that Michael Curtiz is behind the camera on the directing chores because MANDALAY is a visual treat , every shot artistically framed . And KAY FRANCIS fans won't be disappointed because she wears a variety of striking gowns as a woman fleeing her past as a prostitute / singer in a cabaret / brothel run by WARNER OLAND ( yes , he of the Charlie Chan series ) . LYLE TALBOT makes an attractive doctor for Francis to become attached to shortly after assuming a new name . His scenes of drunken despair are extremely well done and had me wondering why he never became a bigger star in the ' 30s . POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD : The rogue responsible for Francis ' downfall is RICARDO CORTEZ and he plays his part with a good deal of charm , although his character is definitely a villain who probably deserved the fate in store for him . The surprising ending has Francis walking off into the sunset with her handsome doctor friend , after causing Cortez's death , thanks to pre-code freedom . Summing up : Especially interesting for Kay Francis fans .
The title tells it all . . . fun at the expense of some tired tourists . . .	If nothing else , IF IT'S TUESDAY , THIS MUST BE BELGIUM serves as a nice travelogue for any armchair traveler to enjoy with a glass of wine ( or beer , if that's your taste ! ) It's a funny , uncomplicated look at a bevy of assorted American tourists doing a quick tour of several foreign countries - - and the various humorous situations stemming from just such a tour . Funniest bit has one of them ( Reva Rose ) getting on the wrong tour bus and spending the rest of the film trying to catch up to her husband . SUZANNE PLESHETTE attracts the attention of tour guide IAN McSHANE , so there's love interest going on amid the comical situations . Among the other tourists are MILDRED NATWICK , MURRAY HAMILTON and PEGGY CASS . It's all in good fun and entertaining enough whether you've been on such a trip or not . Trivia note : The N . Y . Times noted that it was appropriate for this one to wind up at Radio City Music Hall during the height of the summer season , since that's where most tired tourists went to see a show in New York .
A rough ride to Hackensack for Chucky and his bride . . .	Clever is the word that comes to mind when I think of the mixture of horror and comedy that makes up a good deal of BRIDE OF CHUCKY , much of the humor due to some good one-liners by Chucky ( courtesy of BRAD DOURIF's voice ) . And JENNIFER TILLY does an exceptional job as a dim-witted , evil partner of the doll eventually turned into a doll herself who is just as manic as her boyfriend . NICK STABILE and KATHERINE HEIGL are the leads , the unsuspecting victims of much of the mayhem , who have to confront the evil they're dealing with which leads toward a cemetery in Hackensack where the evil dolls hope to retrieve an amulet from a corpse that will restore their original bodies . It's photographed expertly , well directed by Ronny Yu and there's an unusual amount of range to the expressions on both dolls that make them seem eerily real . The final scene in the cemetery is guaranteed to give you a final startled moment . JOHN RITTER plays his role as Police Chief Kinkaid with some restraint , but it's not much of a part until his gruesome demise . Summing up : Not bad as far as these sort of horror capers go .
Strange tale permits Chaney to give memorable performance . . .	If it weren't for the acting technique of LON CHANEY , here deceiving others by assuming a dual role , THE BLACKBIRD would be a lot less interesting to discuss . The plot at first promises to be intriguing , but soon becomes bogged down in a story of petty jealousy between two crooked men for the affections of a pretty girl . OWEN MOORE is the aristocratic looking gentleman thief in love with RENEE ADOREE , as is Chaney . One of the film's saving graces are the close-ups of Chaney glowering at Moore when he realizes he's winning the heart of the girl that both of them love . Chaney uses all of his facial mannerisms in a way that makes the screen titles almost unnecessary since he tells everything with his eyes and his body movements . But the thin plot is the culprit here . Many scenes drag on too long without sufficient reason to and the plot is ultimately a weak one by any standards . Todd Browning does get a terrific performance from Chaney , though , and that's the chief reason for watching in the first place . The tawdry atmosphere of the Limehouse London scenes is effective but the story's ending is a weakness . Summing up : Highly watchable for Chaney alone .
Sinbad and the cyclops , the two-headed bird and the skeleton . . .	Delightful escapist fare for children , but adults will notice how primitive the stop-motion photography is by today's standards of computer imagery . This is the typical fantasy adventure fare offered in the ' 50s for lovers of tales of the Arabian Nights . The bland but handsome KERWIN MATHEWS is Sinbad , who single-handedly fights a crew of mutinous sailors in Douglas Fairbanks fashion , and making it look as though it's a piece of cake . The writers have thrown a few obstacles in his course . He must capture the egg of a giant two-headed bird of prey to restore a miniaturized princess ( KATHRYN GRANT ) , fight a giant one-eyed Cyclops , and engage a skeleton in a duel to the death before he can sail off into the sunset with the princess he loves . The villain of this piece is TORIN THATCHER , but he's no Conrad Veidt . He manages to be sinister but not in the same league with what Veidt could do with a mere glance . The fascinating stop-motion wizardry of Ray Harryhausen is still fun to watch - - the same sort of gimmick used for the original KING KONG ( ' 33 ) . The animation is quite good but pales , of course , by comparison to today's CGI effects . Above average Technicolor is a big help . Summing up : Grand adventure for the kids on a big budget scale , but the stilted acting of Matthews and others leaves a lot to be desired .
Gripping war film was another morale booster during World War II . . .	Like BATAAN and WAKE ISLAND , GUADALCANAL DIARY is another of the many gripping war films that captured attention during WWII , complete with narration by Reed Hadley as the war correspondent telling the story of how U . S . Marines fought and died at Guadalcanal . At first , the marines met no resistance since the Japanese had scattered , but soon the battles became fierce and the war drama deepens . A stalwart cast of players gives life to the many characters , some stereotypes to be sure , but vivid , nonetheless . Interesting how RICHARD JAECKEL managed to be in just about every war film ever made during the ' 40s and well into future decades , still keeping his fresh-faced appeal as a baby-faced Marine . PRESTON FOSTER is the leader here , filling the sort of role usually held by Brian Donlevy , and the assorted cast members include ANTHONY QUINN , LLOYD NOLAN , RICHARD CONTE , RALPH BYRD and the ever present WILLIAM BENDIX as the guy from Brooklyn . There's plenty to admire about the gritty and realistic battles and the overall quality of the performances , and sure , it's propaganda , the kind America needed at the time to keep morale high during the war , but it's well worth watching as a reminder of the sacrifices all these men made on behalf of our freedom today . Trivia note : Just read Christopher Mulrooney's review of this film and you have to wonder what planet he's coming from .
Weak material bolstered by bright cast . . .	The best thing about MY DEAR MISS ALDRICH is that it gives MAUREEN O'SULLIVAN a chance to prove that she was not only very pretty but a capable enough actress to ensure that in the future she would be rewarded with more leading lady roles worthy of her charming presence . Not so . MGM gave her this chance to shine briefly and then tossed her back into secondary parts in big films until she was cast as Jane in the hugely popular Tarzan series . But the film itself appears to have been hastily put together on a modest budget with some good one-liners thrown to EDNA MAY OLIVER , who of course is a sheer delight as Miss Atherton , presumed at first to be the heiress who has inherited a big city newspaper . Of course the real owner is her niece , and when the real owner's identity becomes known to the hero , the story becomes a battle of the sexes with Maureen out to show him that his sexist attitude towards women needs some sort of reformation . If the script and direction had been a little more sophisticated , this might have earned a better reputation as a screwball comedy in an era when the major studios were churning out things like FOUR'S A CROWD and LIBELED LADY . As it is , it's harmless fluff that gives the spectator a good look at Maureen O'Sullivan at her loveliest , billed over Walter Pigeon who takes full advantage of his role . They both play with assurance as romantic leads , but Pigeon's fans will be delighted to see that his flair for this kind of comedy even existed . He was cast in much more serious roles for the main part of his career . Obviously produced as a programmer for the lower half of a double bill , this has its moments , thanks chiefly to Edna May Oliver's dominating way with stealing a scene . Her tart remarks are what helps make the film click at all . Spelling note : I've tried to correct the spelling of Walter Pigeon's name , but it keeps on being switched back to Pigeon by the spell check apparently written into this review by either my computer or the IMDb site . There's a " d " before the " g " , for anyone who's curious .
Fascinating but overly melodramatic tale of Nazi terror . . .	Resistance by Czech citizens during World War II against their Nazi occupiers forms the basis for HANGMEN ALSO DIE ! , based loosely on the real-life assassination of Reinhard Heydrich , Nazi governor of Prague . Unfortunately , despite gripping moments , the story is given standard Hollywood World War II treatment by director Fritz Lang . And , in fact , it might have all seemed less melodramatic and sometimes incredible if the director had allowed his cast to avoid the pitfalls of too much overacting . This charge cannot be leveled against BRIAN DONLEVY who seems to be sleepwalking through his role as the actual assassin ( Dr . Svoboda ) , but ANNA LEE , GENE LOCKHART , JONATHAN HALE and others are guilty of wide-eyed , over-the-top histrionics , while WALTER BRENNAN as a Czech professor is simply miscast . DENNIS O'KEEFE is capable enough as Lee's fiancé . Lockhart , especially , in a pivotal role as the Nazi informant who is the subject of an intricate frameup toward the climax of the story , is given to excessive bits of ham that seem magnified at times . But the gripping story is mostly fascinating to watch as it unfolds a tale of Nazi terror in an attempt to find Heydrich's assassin . Despite the overly melodramatic treatment , it holds interest throughout a lengthy running time . Summing up : Probably had stronger appeal for ' 43 audiences , which explains the propaganda tone of the Lang / Brecht screenplay which is a fictionalized version of a real WWII event .
Another amusing entry with Harold Peary as Gildersleeve . . .	HAROLD PEARY as Gildersleeve gets mixed up with fluttery society dame BILLIE BURKE and her crazy brother , HOBART CAVANAUGH , who has a William Tell fixation and likes to shoot arrows into apples atop heads . CLAIRE CLARLETON is the blonde gold-digger with an eye on a mink coat and ANN DORAN is Peary's jealous girlfriend from Summerville who tracks him to the big city to snoop on his activities . It's harmless fun , with Peary again showing a mastery of physical comedy and timing and all the others keeping up with him . FREDDIE MERCER is again on hand as little Leroy and RICHARD LeGRAND adds a lot of wry humor as the man who always gets a chance to say , " Well , I wouldn't say that . " LEONID KINSKEY has a funny bit as an eavesdropping window-washer . It's another bad day for Gildersleeve and the funny script keeps things breezing along until the end with a final twist .
Enjoyable entry in the Gildersleeve series . . .	This time it's jury duty for The Great Gildersleeve and he's chosen as foreman in GILDERSLEEVE'S BAD DAY . Harold Peary uses his radio characterization of the foolish man to great effect , making the most of a script that puts him into amusing but absurd situations , very few of which have anything to do with reality . He's the lone holdout finding a man " not guilty " of a murder rap when all the evidence proves that he is indeed guilty . DOUGLAS FOWLEY is the criminal whose friends send Gildersleeve a note threatening the worst unless he votes not guilty . Gildy never receives the note and when he does vote " not guilty " , Leroy and Aunt Emma and the rest of his gang figure he's cheating the law . A lot of misunderstandings occur , in goofy fashion , before he gets things straightened out with Judge Hooker . Highly amusing entry if you can forgive the lack of logic , good for a few laughs with another amusing turn from HAROLD PEARY in the title role and JANE DARWELL , NANCY GATES , CHARLES ARNT and FREDDIE MERCER repeating their supporting cast roles in the first Gildersleeve film .
A brief look behind the scenes . . .	Apparently Warner Bros . went all out to promote its ANTHONY ADVERSE which was one of their most lavish historical romances back in 1936 . A few details about sets and costumes and some nice glimpses of actresses Olivia de Havilland and Gale Sondergaard talking about their experience of making the film . Both actresses speak with set miniatures of scenes they are in being on display . Miss de Havilland is a picture of radiant beauty , costumed in her role as Angela , and already exhibiting the kind of charm and poise that would make her one of the studio's most bankable stars . Very few scenes from the film are actually shown , but this was a warm-up for the kind of behind the scenes documentaries that would soon become very popular .
Interesting little psychological thriller . . . a little ahead of its time . . .	RICHARD DIX was never one of my favorite actors , relegated as he was to mostly the kind of B films that played the lower half of double bills . Here he has a role reminiscent of the Wolf Larsen character in Jack London's THE SEA WOLF , although not quite as vicious on the surface . It's not exactly a complex role for the actor , since it's not written with any real exploration of character , but he does fairly well in it nevertheless . He's especially good toward the climax when his true nature is revealed . RUSSELL WADE , who looks somewhat like a more boyish version of Joel McCrea ( if that's possible ) , is the young 3rd Officer assigned to the ship by Captain Stone ( RICHARD DIX ) and eager to be welcomed as a member of the crew . But when strange things begin to happen , and one unfortunate man ( LAWRENCE TIERNEY , uncredited ) is ruthlessly dispatched by the Captain , Wade begins to suspect that Dix has lost his mind and is wreaking some kind of vengeance on the crew . Some nice B & W photography by Nicholas Musuraca gives atmospheric feeling to sustain an eerie mood throughout , but the script leaves a lot to be desired . Especially pointless is the sub-plot involving EDITH BARRETT , who always looks like such a frightened sparrow . Her involvement is hardly necessary to forward the plot . A more intense performance from Russell Wade might have helped matters , but he's held back by a rather weak script . It's easy to see why producer Val Lewton was attracted to this project as he was usually associated with these sort of shadowy noirs in the early ' 40s . Some good early direction by Mark Robson is a plus factor . Summing up : neat little thriller , somewhat ahead of its time in style and content .
Early Ford and early Steiner with mixed results . . .	THE LOST PATROL plods along in the desert sun accompanied by a Max Steiner score that gives some life to the proceedings , as a small group of British cavalry gets lost on the hot desert sands and takes refuge in an oasis . VICTOR McLAGLEN is head of the patrol and he's his usual blustery self and BORIS KARLOFF is a Bible quoting soldier devoid of his usual horror make-up . In other supporting roles are REGINALD DENNY , excellent as a gentleman soldier and WALLACE FORD and DOUGLAS WALTON as the lesser of the ill-fated soldiers . ALAN HALE has a brief role , as does SAMMY STEIN as a robust Jewish soldier . DOUGLAS WALTON is sensitive as the nineteen year-old soldier comforted by McLaglen when overcome by fear and fatigue . Once the lost patrol reaches the oasis , it becomes clear that there's a stagey quality to the dialog in an attempt at character development , but McLaglen remains genuinely convincing as the tough but tender-hearted man who has to keep his men alert in the face of Arab snipers . The action is slow , but Steiner's music has a mixture of exotic flavors mixed with the feeling of wind , sand and military themes . For ' 34 , the very fact that the music is so prominent is an unusual factor . A wild-eyed Karloff tells Reginald Denny : " You're a gentleman . You must have faith ! " and Denny , after extolling the virtues of women natives , says : " Why ? " Once again , McLaglen has to take a firm hand in keeping his men under control . Karloff , with a mad stare in his eyes , eventually goes out of his mind and has an unusual final scene . The story ends with McLaglen the last man standing by the time the cavalry arrives and everyone marches off into the desert dunes while Steiner's music reaches a pitch of military flavor . Not bad , but not the best of John Ford either . Watchable mostly for McLaglen's performance which is worthy of an Oscar nomination - - but the only nomination went to Max Steiner's score .
Joan suffers and suffers but it's a fan's delight . . .	JOAN CRAWFORD was approaching that phase of her career where women of " a certain age " don't have much of a choice in being able to find good scripts . If they do , it's usually a bit of a comedown from the kind of roles they were offered in their heyday . AUTUMN LEAVES is no exception . While it's by no means a disaster , it does strain credibility and proves to be a rather over-baked vehicle for an actress who was by now getting to suffer more and more in stylish women's films that suited her screen persona . Here she is teamed with newcomer CLIFF ROBERTSON , new to films after a brief stint on stage in plays like " Picnic " . He plays a young charmer she befriends at a diner ( after a concert ) and before you know it they're an item at the local beach-front . Hastily , impulsively swept off her feet by this twenty-year younger man , she allows herself to marry him but then discovers that he has a troubled past that makes him turn into a monster when he doesn't get his way . It's the kind of role Crawford was born to play and she goes through all the motions beautifully under Robert Aldrich's direction . Women fans will especially enjoy the fantasy aspect of such a story and will probably pine away with wistful longing when they watch Robertson take Joan in his arms . Some unexpected turns by LORNE GREENE ( as Robertson's father ) and VERA MILES ( as a woman Crawford calls " a slut " ) . Summing up : A good Joan Crawford melodrama - - but SUDDEN FEAR was better .
Simple little horror film is earnestly acted and quite effective . . .	While I concede that this little horror flick gains distinction from being one of STEVE McQUEEN's earliest acting efforts , it's amusing to note that at IMDb it has attracted more comments than other much worthier films from the 1950s which are left with something like two pages of comments at the most . I guess its strongest appeal is to the teens and young adults who crave a good scare now and then even if it is on a shoestring budget and the whole project strains credibility . It does hold the attention throughout , but the ending is somewhat of a letdown and much too abrupt . Without going into plot details , let's just say it's an uphill struggle for McQueen and his teen friends to get any of the townspeople to believe their story about The Blob until the monster brings his menace to a midnight horror show in the heart of town . All of the supporting actors are competent enough although there are no names in the low-budget cast . Steve McQueen shows his characteristic spunk and determination and rivets attention with his intense blue-eyed stare . Summing up : The kind of early sci-fi film that inspires kids ( and some adults ) today to use the word " cheesy " when describing its special effects .
Fun filled Mel Brooks movie about " silent movies " . . .	If you're a Mel Brooks fan , you've probably heard of SILENT MOVIand my advice is to see it if you haven't yet . It's one of his more brilliant and inventive ideas and it gets the wacky screen treatment you expect from Brooks . Naturally , it's not really silent . There is a very well-timed background score ( no , not a tinkling piano ) and all of the thuds are vigorously heard on the soundtrack . But there's no dialog - - you read the silly captions that replace the sound of voices , just as folks did way back when . Sid Ceasar is a film producer that Mel has to convince to let him do a " silent movie " . He agrees provided Mel hires well-known movie stars to give it box-office insurance . That's the gist of the plot which then has MEL BROOKS and DOM DeLUISE scouting around Hollywood for stars like Paul Newman , Liza Minnelli , James Caan and Anne Bancroft to star in the film . It's full of the usual sight gags , the falls on banana peels , through trap doors , everything that happened in a Keystone Kops comedy . Maybe not the funniest Brooks caper but still loads of fun to watch with a brisk running time of 87 minutes .
Scary mix of teen angst and horror works pretty well . . .	DISTURBIA is a hip tale about a restless teen ( SHIA LaBEOUwhat a name ! ! ) under house arrest after punching his Spanish teacher and forced to wear a leg bracelet that sets off an alarm if he goes outside his restricted bounds . When his mother deprives him of entertainment as further punishment , he starts spying on some interesting neighbors , a la James Stewart in REAR WINDOW . The tale starts with a brutal road accident after a fishing trip with his dad that ends with a startling scene before the title credit . But it takes awhile for the story to get into high gear and start delivering the chills one is waiting for in a tale of this kind . SARAH ROEMER is the pretty girl next door who is soon joining Shia in his spying activities ; AARON YOO supplies plenty of comic relief as Shia's Oriental friend ; CARRIE-ANNE MOSS is understandably under a strain as Shia's stressed out mother ; and David MORSE is sufficiently creepy as the neighbor suspected of harboring some dark secrets . Handsomely photographed , it's a letdown only when the shaky camera movement is used for certain crucial scenes such as the finale in a dark cellar . It seems that every filmmaker today likes to use that technique which should have been restricted to the likes of THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT . The last twenty-five minutes are well staged and exciting , building up to the suspenseful climax . Shia deserves full praise for practically carrying the film with an authentic portrait of an energetic teen with too much time on his hands . It's a satisfying thrill ride but not something to go out of your way to see .
Good , gutsy 1930s melodrama about gangsters . . .	Warner Bros . gave BETTE DAVIS a gutsy role as a feisty " clip joint " gal who defies the crime boss ( Eduardo Ciannelli ) and the D . A . ( Humphrey Bogart ) when she finds herself part of a crime ring under investigation for its illegal activities . Davis gives her usual competent performance as the strong-willed girl who gets beaten up by some brutal henchmen before she is willing to cooperate with the earnest D . A . who wants to solve the crimes and put the bad guys away . When her innocent sister ( Jane Bryan ) gets mixed up in the fracas and is subsequently killed , Davis decides to cooperate . It's the typical ' 30s crime melodrama except that the performances are all a little stronger than usual , especially by Isabel Jewell who has a meaty acting role for a change , as do Lola Lane and Mayo Methot as tough talking pals of Bette . And it's nice to see HUMPHREY BOGART on the right side of the law in a role that one would expect someone like Ronald Reagan to tackle , since he usually played the good guy . But Bogart does a more than competent job in standing up to Bette's histrionics . All of it is well directed by Lloyd Bacon . Although prostitution is never directly mentioned as the racket , the script makes it clear by implication to please the censors . Well worth watching if you like crime melodramas of this sort .
Calgary's rodeo during Stampede Week is the highlight . . .	Featured on the Errol Flynn Signature Collection for THE ADVENTURES OF DON JUAN , this Oscar winning short deals with a nostalgic look back at the early beginnings of Calgary when wagons , stagecoaches , horses and colorful Indians ruled the day . The festivities include square dancing , mock trials for horse thieves , Indian dances and lots of other rituals , but the highlight , for me , was the rodeo where the cowboys roped wild animals in various contests of strength and skill . The early part of the short documentary is a bit on the dull side , but if you stick with it , the action steams up for the rodeo exhibitions with cowboys expertly saddling wild horses or steers and riding competitions on wild horses , all guaranteed to hold the interest . Photographed in color with good narration by Art Gilmore , it's an uneven short subject that alternates between dull and interesting .
Pleasant enough Traveltalk documentary from James A . FitzPatrick . . .	This is the sort of educational short we used to see in school auditoriums about various places throughout the world . The locale here is Alaska , and the Technicolor photography is inviting enough to keep viewer's interested in some colorful glimpses of various seaports and fishing villages , the sparkling blue waters of lakes with snow-capped mountains in the background . We're told that the actual climate of these villages in the valleys is a lot more normal than one would suspect from what the name Alaska signifies to most people . Far from frigid , it shows people enjoying the warm lake waters in the summer . With the salmon industry bringing in 5 million a year , we're shown various ports where fishing and the sea food industry are the main activities . We also see some Indian children in an Indian setting where colorful Totem poles are a common sight . Another handsome sight are the ocean liners that carry passengers across the Alaskan seas . And finally , we leave with a glimpse of Petersburg , a fishing village with quaint picture postcard charm . Summing up : A rather routine entry in the Traveltalk series .
Not as awesome as the original but the animation is excellent . . .	I have to give this one a mixed review - - the good with the bad . Those Disney animators deserve credit for trying to be as true to the source material as they could possibly be . The animation shows they did their homework in getting as close to natural movement of the animals as possible and the art work is often stunning . But two things hold it back from being a true work of art : the songs have none of the stirring qualities of the original with their beautiful choral arrangements but instead have a folksy , country music style that seems to jar with the material rather than support it ; and the forest is a virtual chatterboxing match with much too much dialog - - the exact opposite of the Disney original . On the other hand , Felix Salten's book did have the animals chatting much more frequently than Disney did in the first film and there is a credit noting that this is based on Felix Salten's book with story elements not included in the original film . As a direct to TV film , it's perfectly within the benchmark of good entertainment for children . Whether adults will feel the same way about many of the story elements , is debatable . The groundhog sequence adds little to the story development , but the porcupine scene - - much more amusing - - does serve a story purpose . Credit must be given to the beautiful backgrounds and smooth animation , but it's a shame that with the passage of time it took to make a prequel , the Disney studio couldn't have come up with a stronger storyline . Andrea Dejas obviously supervised with his own special brand of artistic expertise - - but so much care , detail and artistry wasted on a trivial story that never captures the feel of danger and excitement that made the original so memorable but is calculated to appeal more to the very young . All of the voice-overs are superbly done with special credit to Patrick Stewart's princely job as The Great Prince of the Forest . Serves its purpose well , if you're not expecting too much - - but there are faults that prevent it from achieving the high status of the original despite the care with animation and backgrounds .
Transitional silent / sound Lloyd film is semi-successful overlong comedy . . .	Sound technology was new in 1929 - - brand new - - and WELCOME DANGER , originally filmed in silent mode , was re-filmed with sound , the crude sound of the ' 20s which alternates between being loud one moment and soft the next , forcing a constant hand on the volume if you wish to keep track of the painfully banal dialog . HAROLD LLOYD , improbably cast as the son of a police chief who ruled Chinatown , is sent to San Francisco to wipe out crime among the drug lords . Lloyd is a botany student who isn't quite what the force was expecting . The opening scenes with BARBARA KENT are delightfully played for comic situations , but again it's the script that's the real problem . She seems a natural enough actress and Lloyd delivers his lines in OK style , but it's slow going to watch each scene develop - - and most of the comic situations are pretty lame . EDGAR KENNEDY has fun with his role as a desk sergeant who sends Lloyd off on what he thinks is a wild goose chase in Chinatown looking for The Dragon . Some of the sight gags are still fun , left-overs from the silent version , but the film has to be considered an uneasy transition between silent and sound that never quite clicks the way Lloyd's silent comedies did . As Osborne said when doing the intro , some of it is " pretty rough " . Summing up : Except for the interesting Chinatown sequence ( which goes on much too long ) , and the slight twist as to the identity of The Dragon , this one is strictly for Harold Lloyd fans who want to see his complete works .
Especially , if no one suspects you . . .	Agatha Christie's ' Murder Is Easy ' gets off to a brisk start with Helen Hayes as a little old lady on her way to Scotland Yard to report a series of murders in her village . She describes the look that made her realize who the murderer is and tells Bill Bixby , " If no one suspects you , murder is easy . " Shortly after she leaves the train station , she is killed in an auto accident . Thus , Bixby decides to investigate for himself . Carmen Culver's teleplay would have been better if it hadn't updated the Christie material and tried to modernize the story with foolish computer nonsense . Furthermore , by devoting entirely too much time to the red herrings and focusing almost all of the remaining time on Lesley-Anne Down and Bill Bixby's growing relationship , it turns the surprise ending into little more than a sham for which there is no preparation . Bill Bixby's character in the novel was a young policeman - - here he is an American computer wizard who delves into use of the computer ( to no avail ) to solve the crime . He's charming and believable enough but too many scenes are throwaways involving him and Lesley-Anne Down . Suffice it to say that this is not one of the best adaptations of Christie's work . The technical aspects are excellent - - the color photography of the English settings is impressive and all of the performances are first-rate . Nice to see Olivia de Havilland and Helen Hayes as " special guest stars " . Helen Hayes contributes so much to the opening scenes that she makes up for the fact that there is no Miss Marple in this one . But the tight suspense of the final scenes in the novel when the murderer is caught and revealed is missing here and the explanations are too swift to carry much weight . Still , an absorbing who-dun-it for mystery fans although modernizing the story with computer detection work is no help at all .
Kirk Douglas leads dangerous expedition in Indian territory . . .	If ever a sprawling tale about an expedition up the Missouri river to trade furs begged for Technicolor photography , THE BIG SKY is it . Based on the novel by A . B . Guthrie , it has KIRK DOUGLAS in the lead as the head of the expedition but most of the footage belongs to young DEWEY MARTIN in his first big screen role . Why he never managed to become a more important player in Hollywood remains a mystery to me . Unfortunately , Dudley Nichols ' screenplay is rather episodic and there are many points toward the end of the film where it seems the story is about to end and then there are further scenes . I found none of the narration objectionable ( as others here seem to imply ) , but the structure of the screenplay is awkwardly handled , especially toward the latter part of the film . Another minus point , the night scenes in the woods look as though they were photographed in a studio and not on location which minimizes the sense of danger from Indians and other trappers that the story requires . But most of the exterior daylight scenes are photographed in crisp B & W photography in real outdoor settings which tend to jar against the studio-lit scenes , making them more noticeable . There's plenty of male camaraderie and friendship among the trappers and colorful incidents involving the Indians , so if this kind of western is your thing you'll undoubtedly find it interesting . I watched the 140 minute version on TCM and it was slow going at times . Summing up : Biggest drawback : should definitely have been filmed in breathtaking Technicolor .
Another Michael Crichton science fiction novel that strains credibility . . .	Some of the comments here make TIMELINE seem like the worst science fiction story ever to hit the screen . While the logic is flawed - - in fact , non-existent at times , especially with regard to time travel - - the presentation by Richard Donner does have some solidly entertaining moments . Unfortunately , he fails to bring the characters alive by spending too much time on detailed battle scenes . The trouble is the script , not the actors . Obviously it was necessary to condense all the technical jargon and explanations made by Crichton in his novel in order to have a film that still runs two hours . But Donner has decided to lavish all his time and attention on the extravagant recreation of the medieval battle scenes , neglecting to flesh out any of his characters . As a result , the film rushes from one breathless battle to another the moment the entry into 14th Century France is made - - and it's hard to root for characters who may be killed ruthlessly but have failed to come alive in the first place . Unfortunately , neither of the young female leads is charismatic enough or credible enough to warrant all the attention they get from the male leads . On the other hand , the leading men ( Ken Walker and Gerard Butler ) have looks to spare , both of them superior in the looks department . Acting-wise , Butler has a distinct advantage over Walker , making his Andre Marek , the archaeologist , the film's real hero , giving his character the sort of backbone missing in Walker's performance . Butler's flirtation in the boat scene is skipped over too lightly , an example of how weak the love interest is in the scheme of things . Director Donner should have put a little more emphasis on this scene to make the twist ending more credible . While the sets are stunningly recreated , the extended battle scenes become a bit exhausting after awhile ( hard to tell whether you're watching LORD OF THE RINGS , GLADIATOR or BRAVEHEART combined ) , and , of course , none of the storyline really makes sense when you stop to think about it . But , as an action flick , it's fairly worthwhile as a film rental . Having seen Butler in PHANTOM OF THE OPERA , I was interested in checking him out in other films and see that he's a very capable actor who has yet to find a really good vehicle for his considerable acting range . As for the bitter complaints about all the changes and omissions from Crichton's book , credit should be given to the scriptwriters who were able to pare down all of the exposition and technical jargon into a workable script . I understand the writers on JURASSIC PARK had the same problem and many changes were made . Trivia note : Brian Tyler's busy background score is riveting . Jerry Goldsmith had to withdraw from the assignment due to illness and Brian does a fine job as a replacement , adding much zest to all of the action sequences . And the outdoor photography in Quebec ( serving as France ) is truly excellent .
Stylish vampire thriller shows the dark side of Law . . .	Not a run of the mill vampire movie by any means , although JUDE LAW plays his usual deeply disturbed character , a doctor who stalks women he sees as suitable to seduce . Sure of himself , he decides to play a cat and mouse game with detectives investigating the case . Law uses his hypnotizing gaze with good effect . His latest conquest is an industrial engineer who says , " I like a man with a bit of mystery about him . " She immediately becomes an item on his list of future victims . He wins her over completely when he saves her from a vicious attack by thugs . There's an air of unpredictability lurking over every scene . The last half-hour has the woman scrutinizing him - - wondering what's inside his mind . You have to wonder where their relationship is going . Will she still be his next victim ? The detective is having an equally hard time trying to figure him out . " The line that separates good from evil cuts through every human heart , " he tells the detective . To say the least , he's an ambiguous character , this vampire , and Jude Law plays him with conviction . Timothy Spall as the dogged detective is good , as is Elina Lowensohn as the puzzled romantic interest . The finale drags a bit before it goes for the climax . A bit too sluggish throughout but still manages to hold the interest .
Dennis Quaid carries the film with fine performance . . .	TOUGH GUY is another boxing film that is somewhat reminiscent of the old Kirk Douglas film , CHAMPION , except that the character DENNIS QUAID plays is not stepping on people in his way up the ladder of success . Instead , Quaid plays an aspiring country singer in need of cash who decides to compete in the " Tough Man " boxing contest . He falls into the hands of an unscrupulous manager , well played by WARREN OATES , and wins a number of fights ( in what appears to be " against all odds " judging from some of the other contenders ) . It's a fast-moving tale , colorfully enacted and giving Quaid a chance to warble a couple of pleasant country western songs while strumming a guitar . But he's ferocious in all of the fighting scenes and really does look like a convincing boxer in some amazingly well staged matches that stand inspection even under the merciless eye of the close-up camera . Quaid is so good - - and the other players are equally competent - - that they lift the film out of the " average " category into " very watchable " territory . Passes the time quickly in an hour and forty-six minutes . The script could have been a lot tidier , especially for the climactic fight scene and the end result is a film that's message is no more than follow your dream no matter what .
A picturesque and colorful ode to tulips . . .	Tulips take center stage in this James A . FitzPatrick Traveltalk short focusing on Holland , the land of tulips . We glimpse a profusion of floral landscapes surrounding various homes in Holland ; a floral parade through the center of town ; scenes of windmills and a variety of tulips , both originating in Holland sometime during the 15th century ; and how it takes five to ten years to cultivate certain bulbs . The colorful landscapes dominate the film which is really a salute to the tulip industries of Holland . Summing up : Well photographed in Technicolor , it's a storybook , picture postcard view of Holland of the sort that invites tourism .
Pleasant but thin story idea wears even thinner as it goes on . . .	The Caribbean cruise ship and island backgrounds help make CALYPSO CAT worth watching , but the plot is standard Tom and Jerry stuff with not a single original element to make it stand out from the other T & J cartoons . Jerry is a mouse aboard a cruise ship , determined to derail Tom's romance with a flirtatious cat . The usual games are played , with Jerry getting the worst of it - - complete with consistent bops on the head and an array of hot foot gags . Of course , he's also a loser in the love department when the cat walks off with an islander playing Calypso on a steel drum . Since none of the sight gags are original or memorable , it's a forgettable little item .
Diverting little mystery is welcome entertainment as a B-film . . .	MGM seldom delved into atmospheric B-film mysteries depicting " London By Night " , since those kind of thrillers were usually made by studios like RKO and Universal during the ' 30s and ' 40s . But this atmospheric mystery , filmed entirely on the MGM back lot , is a welcome diversion that graced the bottom half of double feature bills back in 1937 . GEORGE MURPHY is a man who wants to go to Paris in the morning ( he tells us so about ten times during the course of the story ) , but reluctantly stays behind to solve a murder case involving a man who uses disguises and an umbrella to do his dastardly deeds . RITA JOHNSON is the pretty socialite with the strict father ( MONTAGUE LOVE ) and her household includes LEO G . CARROL . GEORGE ZUCCO is on the good side of the law ( for a change ) as a Scotland Yard detective . It's an entertaining little trifle that will keep you guessing as to the outcome after a few murders along the way . Unfortunately , VIRGINIA FIELD , as a Cockney barmaid , overacts outrageously in a desperate attempt to provide comic relief . The dog Corky is much better at that .
Anthony Dexter does dual role in tale by Dumas . . .	In an attempt to capitalize on Dexter's first film for Columbia , VALENTINO , the studio promptly gave him another assignment in which he would emulate the silent screen star who made his mark in sand and sandal epics . Not only that , they gave him a dual role requiring the actor to carry the film . It's only half-successful . Dexter looks good in the period costumes , even acquits himself well in a couple of nicely choreographed dance scenes and makes a dashing hero in the Alexander Dumas style . He even makes a distinction between the true King and his giddy laughter and the brave imposter . But somehow , the total effect is lacking , partly due to a lackluster script and the fact that his leading lady is no more than a cardboard heroine . JODY LAWRENCE exhibits almost no emotion in her role as the Princess who falls in love with the imposter . She speaks all her lines in a dull monotone and rarely changes her expression . This turns out to be a liability for a costume romance to stir up the proper amount of interest . Dexter carries the main burden , while GALE ROBBINS , RON RANDELL , CARL BENTON REID and even ANTHONY QUINN as the villain Ramon are mere ciphers . It's a shame , because Columbia gave the film the benefit of lavish sets and costumes , obviously expecting a good return for their money . What they got is the same old Dumas story about a commoner impersonating royalty while the villains plot and plan how to win their way to the throne . Summing up : Moderately interesting and not Dexter's fault that the project fails to become a spirited enough adventure .
Murky Victorian melodrama has a " Gaslight " connection . . .	That HEDY LAMARR was one of the great beauties of the screen goes without saying . But whether she had the acting abilities to play a woman being driven slowly out of her mind by a calculating doctor husband ( PAUL LUKAS ) still remains questionable . There is no evidence in EXPERIMENT PERILOUS to suggest that she would have been up to the demands of the Ingrid Bergman role in GASLIGHT , which she turned down . Instead , she chose to star in this murky melodrama full of flashbacks and with an obscurely motivated script by Warren Duff . While it's by no means a complete failure , neither is it a resounding success . GEORGE BRENT as the friend who comes to Lamarr's aid is as stiff and wooden as ever , using just one expression throughout and obviously not too well connected to his role . Whether this was the director's fault or not , I can't say , but a more persuasive performance on his part would have made the whole thing more effective . PAUL LUKAS gives his usual professional performance as the doctor with an unhealthy perspective on how to deal with his wife and child . Jacques Tourner's direction leaves a lot to be desired . This is a story in the same mold as GASLIGHT , but nowhere as effective with a murky script and a dull payoff for the climax . As for Hedy Lamarr , she was much more at ease in other films , even though this is said to be one of her own favorite films .
An air of deja vu hangs over the plot line of " Body Heat " . . .	There's plenty of heat generated in BODY HEAT and most of it comes from the steamy situations set up by director Lawrence Kasdan and , in her debut film role , KATHLEEN TURNER , who turns up the heat even more with a dynamic performance as " the femme fatale " . But all of the material will seem familiar if you've ever seen THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE or DOUBLE INDEMNITY . Still , there are some fresh new twists that will have you wondering just how this whole story will play out once WILLIAM HURT ( in a role similar to Fred MacMurray's in DOUBLE INDEMNITY ) learns that he's been played for a fall guy by Turner , who wants him to kill her wealthy husband so they can share the wealth . Not only is there a clever twist at the end , but the whole story has been modernized for ' 80s audiences by including some graphic depictions of soft core sex . Hurt and Turner are frequently seen writhing about in simulated sexual embraces , thus making the title a plausible one . It's the kind of story James M . Cain might have written in the ' 30s or ' 40s , and when done as effectively as it is here , with John Barry's intriguing score adding some extra dimension to the film noir atmosphere of the tale , it can hold the audience in its grip until that final moment . Well worth seeing for Hurt's very persuasive performance as the weak-minded lawyer dazzled by sex and Turner's debut as a screen siren .
Robert Duvall's journey to redemption . . . his Oscar-winning role . . .	TENDER MERCIES is a simple story of a country western singer's rise from the depths of drunken despair to respectability again after meeting a woman ( TESS HARPER ) with whom he falls in love , marries and is encouraged to try his hand at music again . ROBERT DUVALL is Mac , the washed up singer , now the handyman at the motel run by Harper , who lives there with her young son . He's a legend in that area of Texas and is urged by an unknown group to sing and write for them - - eventually even joining them on stage for one of his latest songs . Duvall plays the role with conviction , lending his voice to the songs in pleasant country style . His ex-wife is bitter and unforgiving ( BETTY BUCKLEY ) , and sees everything , even the tragic death of their daughter ( ELLEN BARKIN ) in terms of herself as the spotlight - - and unable to treat him with any sort of respect . But he basks in the loving attention of his wife and his adopted son , getting his nourishment from his relationship with them rather than anything from his past . It's a bittersweet story , simple and direct without any sub-plots or any kind of distraction and passes the time quickly in ninety minutes , more a character study of Mac than anything else . I'm not a fan of country music nor this sort of western , but it has a certain homespun appeal and Duvall , of course , is an actor worth watching . It must have been a lean year for Oscars though - - it's not the kind of performance that immediately grabs you and hasn't got Oscar written all over it .
Good film noir but something is amiss . . .	RALPH MEEKER makes a credible Mike Hammer , even though there are times when I thought what a great role this would have been for either KIRK DOUGLAS or HUMPHREY BOGART . Meeker was a handsome actor who never quite made it in Hollywood after some stage work , notably as the drifter in PICNIC on Broadway in the role that went to William Holden in the film version . From the very start , this is a fascinating film noir , beginning with the pick-up of CLORIS LEACHMAN ( introduced in her film debut ) and from there veering into a highly tense detective yarn , some of which is hard to follow when you start asking too many questions . Some pertinent explanations are missing , but the artful B & W photography around San Francisco , up winding alleys and high wooden staircases , keeps the eye fascinated while the story unwinds . The story itself involves a rather " Pandora's Box " kind of solution - - what is the thing that so many have been killed for ? And when the solution does come , it's a shocker . Summing up : Nice film noir , gritty performance by Ralph Meeker and some sharp direction by Robert Aldrich who once again uses Frank DeVol for the background score ( as he did for " Hush . . . Hush , Sweet Charlotte " ) . Trivia note : WESLEY ADDY has a key supporting role as a law officer , just as he would nine years later in Aldrich's HHSC . And the little man who played the creepy undertaker in that flick ( PERCY HELTON ) , is a greedy morgue attendant here who gets his comeuppance from Hammer .
Tasteful version of Pearl Buck story . . . offbeat casting is intriguing . . .	It may be disconcerting to see blue-eyed Caucasian actors playing Orientals , but once this initial distraction is over , the story of DRAGON SEED takes over and it's an engrossing one . Film's chief flaw is the fact that Pearl Buck's story is overlong - - and so is the film . Chinese villagers have to flee the enemy , Japanese soldiers , during the 1930s , and WALTER HUSTON and ALINE MacMAHON are the sturdy head of a family that includes daughter KATHARINE HEPBURN , as Jade . None of the three principals are particularly convincing in their Oriental make-up , but it's still fascinating to watch them perform . HURD HATFIELD , TURHAN BEY , AKIM TAMIROFF , JACQUELINE DeWIT and HENRY TRAVERS are further examples of offbeat casting , but the grim story of survival of the fittest under cruel exploitation by the enemy is well crafted and always interesting to follow . The film is photographed in meticulous B & W , crisply produced in the handsome MGM manner - - with main attention going to Huston and MacMahon who do nicely in the leading roles . Hepburn , thankfully , is less mannered and less on display than usual . One of the most interesting scenes involves her decision to poison her brother-in-law during a banquet at his " mansion " . Summing up : Admirers of other Pearl Buck works ( like THE GOOD EARTH ) should find this unusual drama well worth watching . MGM should be commended for producing a very tasteful version of the novel . Story ends on a fever pitch with a graphic simulation of " the scorched earth policy " as practiced by the Chinese villagers .
Touching drama about mental affliction . . . fine performances but slow moving . . .	KEIR DULLEA and JANET MARGOLIN are a couple of youngsters needing guidance because of their mental illness and finding inspiration in each other to help them confront the issues bothering them . HOWARD da SILVA gets away from his usual villainous role to play a sympathetic psychiatrist at the asylum . An independent film , it's a sensitive treatment of the subject matter without resorting to clichés or attaching a happy ending that would suggest a complete cure . Frank Perry's direction gives the film an almost semi-documentary look . The story is almost too simple to sustain its feature length and there are moments that drag interminably while we watch Margolin display all her odd mannerisms . Dullea remains rigidly trapped inside his own personality and almost looks like a robot at times . Howard da Silva is the picture of laid-back patience as a psychiatrist who has to contend with Dullea's obstinate behavior and unwillingness to be touched by anyone . The tender final scene outside a museum is a nice way to end the story , showing that both Margolin and Dullea are about to take steps that may lead to some sort of recovery .
( POSSIBLE SPOILER ) . . . Serial killer story within a " Law and Order " format . . .	Watching SEVEN , you almost expect a beer commercial to interrupt at any moment because it's like watching a harder-edged , slightly grittier , mean streets version of LAW AND ORDER with a more experienced detective ( MORGAN FREEMAN ) conducting a sort of balancing act with his footloose , craving for action sidekick ( BRAD PITT ) wanting to get away from his desk work . It's gritty stuff all the way through , with neon lights flashing amid grimy apartments , chases through crooked alleys and across grimy rooftops and down fire escapes that break the tension of a story whose central theme is the hunt for a serial killer intent on showing off his skill to a detective he professes to admire . As the killer , KEVIN SPACEY adopts a zombie-like pose , a flat monotone and recites his dialog with a straight face - - but he's never quite believable enough in the role . BRAD PITT spends much of the time protesting loudly against the authority figure who tries to calm him down when things get out of hand . But his final emotional scene is a challenging one and he does manage to bring the right anger , confusion and bitter resentment as he confronts the man who has played his final trick on him . He's unrestrained in this final moment and it's the kind of emotion the audience can understand at this point . MORGAN FREEMAN , as the more restrained , experienced older partner on the brink of retirement , is excellent but his final decision to open a box ( without revealing plot details here ) is a questionable procedure . Summing up : Some tense , well-staged moments but the overall effect is less than impressive as a study of a serial killer on the loose . Overpraised by film noir addicts .
Low-budget movie was a huge success at the time . . .	MARTY was written by one of America's most talented playwrights at a time when live TV was doing plays by writers such as Paddy Chayefsky . His MARTY was an overnight sensation when Rod Steiger played him in a made for TV movie . And that's what the film feels essentially like - - a glorified made for television piece that could have been tailored for shows like Playhouse 90 which gave live presentation of feature-length stories . But the magic in MARTY blots out the fact that it is , after all , a low-budget film depending heavily on its realistic characters to carry the day . And the magic is - - namely - - ERNEST BORGNINE's deeply felt , deeply human portrait of a working class Bronx butcher who meets a girl others describe as " homely " , and how he's ribbed by his friends and family about his poor choice , but decides finally that she's the girl he wants to marry and has the courage to go through with it . BETSY BLAIR is warm and believable as the girl , and she's part of the magic too . But whether this simple story of a butcher's love for a simple girl from the Bronx is going to resonate heavily with today's viewers , I don't know . The story itself is still timely but anyone expecting a big Oscar-winning film will be surprised at just how modest the sets , cast and production values are in this Oscar-winning film . It does show its source as a TV play despite attempts to give it more dimension . Nevertheless , it won four Oscars including Best Actor , Best Writer ( Paddy Chayefsky ) , Best Director ( Delbert Mann ) and Best Picture .
Fluffy romantic comedy from Colubmia for Evelyn Keyes and Glenn Ford . . .	After giving Evelyn Keyes the star treatment in JOLSON STORY , her studio failed to promote her in anything but some innocuous follow-up films with the exception of one or two films . This is one of the better ones . THE MATING OF MILLIE is a frolic that was probably turned down by Rita Hayworth and given to GLENN FORD and EVELYN KEYES . Whatever , it ignites real sparks as a comedy , telling a story about a woman who must find a husband if she wants to adopt a little boy . The screenwriters find a number of amusing situations for Glenn and Evelyn and they make the most of their rather offbeat roles . It's their flair for comedy that makes the simple plot so enjoyable . WILLARD PARKER is excellent as a bachelor friend who never notices Keyes until she gets some " warm-up " advice from Ford about how to catch a man . Before you know it , he's on her doorstep asking to borrow a cup of sugar . RON RANDELL is the head of an orphanage who also has designs on Keyes but is a realist about the situation . The predictable happy ending is in sight long before it actually happens , but it's given a charming treatment . Movie buffs will recognize MABEL PAIGE as Keyes ' friendly elderly neighbor . As predictable as it is , it's still a charmer .
Seems tame today but still delivers chills . . .	Since ROSEMARY'S BABY came upon the scene so many years ago , we've had a great many supernatural tales ( THE OMEN , THE SIXTH SENSE ) to name just a couple of the more recent scary titles , that it's no wonder someone viewing this for the first time might feel cheated . The audiences of ' 68 were used to this kind of slow build-up to a plot that kept audiences waiting for revelations explaining some mysterious goings-on in an uptown apartment house called The Dakota . They didn't expect slasher gore or quick cuts to show gruesome body parts on display . They wanted the story to develop at its own pace and then deliver the goods for a substantial conclusion . And this is what ROSEMARY'S BABY does so efficiently . It starts slowly and only gradually do we come to realize that something much more serious than just eccentric neighbors is going on here . Best of the eccentrics is RUTH GORDON who rightfully won a Supporting Role Oscar for her work as Minnie , the overly solicitous neighbor who watches so carefully over the pregnant MIA FARROW . Hubby JOHN CASSAVETES seems to be concerned too but that turns out to be for other reasons . There are several good supporting roles , but another performer who stands out is RALPH BELLAMY as the doctor Rosemary confides in when she begins to suspect things are wrong . It's a good screen version of Ira Levin's novel and MIA FARROW does a commendable job as the worried and confused young wife . Well worth a look as a modern Gothic thriller .
Norman Krasna and Groucho Marx on the script ! ! . . . so what happened ?	I really only know FERNAND GRAVET from his playing of Johann Strauss in THE GREAT WALTZ and was not overly impressed with his by-the-numbers impersonation of the great music master . So , truth be told , I wasn't expecting much from this little comedy co-starring him with JOAN BLONDELL , another so-so actress who occasionally had a bright role to play in films like A TREE GROWS IN BROOKLYN but usually had to be content with less than impressive roles in screwball comedies of the ' 30s and ' 40s . Considering that the script for THE KING AND THE CHORUS GIRL is penned by Norman Krasna and Groucho Marx , it's a shame the material lacks the sort of wit to be expected when those two minds collaborated . Let me put it this way - - Gravet is supposed to be able to sit through a show with his eyes wide open but asleep . That's the way I felt forcing myself to stay with this " comedy " . He sits patiently through KENNY BAKER's tenor solo at a nightclub in Paris on a huge art deco set but is soon transfixed by flirtatious bit of business from JOAN BLONDELL as a chorus girl flashing a mirror beam at his face and promptly decides he wants to have dinner with her . Blondell is introduced to EDWARD EVERETT HORTON as a Count and MARY NASH as a Duchess before her dinner date with Gravet , as King Alfred VII . The trouble is the bored king has fallen asleep . There's such a lack of wit in the writing that you may fall asleep too . Hard to believe that with this pleasant cast , Krasna and Marx couldn't do better . It's a screenplay that strains to be funny - - but isn't . Gravet is more animated than usual in comedy , but is most convincing when he's bored . Blondell is prettily photographed and pleasant as the chorus girl but it's a role that's no stretch for any young actress . Wasted in a supporting role is JANE WYMAN ( with French accent ) , who would later do another little Krasna comedy called PRINCESS O'ROURKE in a much better supporting role . The slim plot depends upon Blondell's resistance to the King's charm , determined as she is to be as unimpressed as possible . Their first meeting ends disastrously with Blondell finding his behavior boorish . It's the sort of theme that was much better done years later with Marilyn Monroe and Laurence Olivier in THE PRINCE AND THE SHOWGIRL . Summing up : Fernand Gravet tries hard but he's no Cary Grant in screwball comedy - - and both he and Blondell needed a better script !
Interesting B & W images from the man who did " The Red Balloon " . . .	Although this was an award-winning French film that won honors as Best Short Film at the Cannes Film Festival , there's really nothing that memorable about this B & W odyssey about a wild stallion and a small boy who tames it . The background music is pleasant , the photography is pleasing enough and the boy is a natural actor , but the story seems to be lacking something in spirit and seems rather bland by the time it winds up its tale in 43 minutes with a rather ambiguous ending . ALAIN EMERY is the boy , Falco , who befriends a white stallion in Camarque , arid lands in the south of France , much to the displeasure of a group of men who were trying to capture the animal themselves . Once the horse accepts him as a rider , he spends the rest of the film trying to avoid capture by the men on horseback who chase the boy and the horse all over the dunes and finally the beach , where boy and horse ride off into the waves . That's the story . Whether it captures your attention completely or not is debatable , but it is definitely well made and worth seeing at least once . Trivia note : The main page at IMDb specifies that the film was photographed in Eastman Color but the print shown on TCM was in black and white .
Pleasant star vehicle for Lilli Palmer . . . but largely forgotten today . . .	MY GIRL TISA gave American audiences their first real glimpse of the charms of LILLI PALMER who had been making waves in Great Britain in a number of films for a decade previously . Here she has the starring role as a Hungarian immigrant dealing with the plight of survival in New York's lower East side , swarming with tenement apartments , sweatshops and all the rascals needed to keep the plot spinning . SAM WANAMAKER was a pleasant choice for a co-star and Warner surrounded them with a nice supporting cast headed by AKIM TAMIROFF ( studying hard for his naturalization test ) , HUGO HAAS , STELLA ADLER and ALAN HALE and gave the production some nice pictorial touches with regard to costumes and music for the early 20th century flavor . But the story is a slight one , never amounting to much , although it does deal with the immigration of European immigrants in a detailed way not usually explored in films from this era . Summing up : Passes the time pleasantly and provides a star-making role for LILLI PALMER .
Francis Lederer makes a suave Dracula . . .	With Dracula coming to live with a nice normal family in a small town in California , there's a trace of " Shadow of a Doubt " in the design of the story . He arrives by train ( a la Joseph Cotten ) in the person of FRANCIS LEDERER who has fled from Europe . He's given a cordial welcome from the family and then the fun begins . The daughter seems to have the Teresa Wright role as the cousin who admires her uncle but senses something strange about him . Dracula keeps his distance from her . When invited to a Halloween party , he declares : " I have no social graces for large gatherings . " Nevertheless , suspense builds as a series of incidents arise behind which we know he has played a part . Lederer plays the part with such sinister glances that it's a wonder nobody in the household suspects anything except the girl's cynical boyfriend . The ending in the cave makes for a suitable climax to the story . Summing up : Not quite as chilling as any of the Dracula films with Bela Lugosi , but still above average low-budget thriller .
Daffy Duck has trouble proving his identity . . .	Any cartoon with Mel Blanc doing the voice characterizations and produced by Chuck Jones has got something going for it , but while ROBIN HOOD DAFFY is not the funniest cartoon about the famous outlaw , it does garner a few laughs when Daffy crashes into more trees than George of the Jungle . The animation though , leaves something to be desired - - it's not as pleasing in background layout nor are the characters given the sort of careful craftsmanship that was evident in , for example , the Tom and Jerry cartoons . Perhaps this is due to the newer drawing style of the late ' 50s which relied on more crudely drawn characters . At any rate , a funny take on the Robin Hood legend , with Daffy getting the worst of things for a change while Porky Pig remains relatively unscathed by any of the over-the-top slapstick . Enjoyable enough , but not one of the funnier Porky Pig / Daffy Duck outings .
Visually sumptuous but the story is an empty shell . . .	Edward Ward wrote the score ( as in PHANTOM OF THE OPERA ) , George Waggner directed ( he was producer of PHANTOM ) , JANE FARRAR again plays a rival singer jealous of the new diva , and SUSANNA FOSTER is the lovely singer terrified of co-star BORIS KARLOFF , instead of Claude Rains . Other than that , any similarity between THE CLIMAX and POTO is strictly coincidental . The story is pretty lifeless , dealing as it does with the old chestnut about an older gentleman , the opera's resident doctor ( BORIS KARLOFF ) who killed his opera sweetheart years ago and is resentful when a new singer is engaged to sing the former diva's greatest role . He hypnotizes her in an attempt to silence her voice but doesn't count on interception from her romantic interest ( TURHAN BEY ) and the help of his housekeeper ( GALE SONDERGAARD in a sympathetic role ) . It was justifiably honored with Oscar nominations for Set Decoration and Art Direction , but failed to become the profitable hit Universal was obviously reaching for . The main reason is the plot doesn't hold enough interest with its cardboard characters . Even the role of the mad doctor is played in very low-key style by BORIS KARLOFF , one of the screen's great horror stars . A little more menace would have been a wise thing and would have heightened whatever suspense there is . The supporting cast is a pleasant one , with JUNE VINCENT as the unfortunate opera diva Karloff murders , LUDWIG STOSSEL , THOMAS GOMEZ and SCOTTY BECKETT . The most obvious holdover from POTO is JANE FARRAR who practically repeats her role as a jealous diva , but even her tantrums were more credible in the former film . Edward Ward's score is attractive but not as impressive as his work on PHANTOM , and Susanna's higher register sounds a bit strained at times , although overall her vocal performance is a good one . Not likely to please fans of horror films with too much music and too little plot .
Christopher Walken steals interesting horror fantasy . . .	CHRISTOPHER WALKEN makes the most of his meaty role at the center of THE PROPHECY , an offbeat horror fantasy about good and bad angels and a war in heaven that involves Walken's desperate search for a dark soul on earth . VIRGINIA MADSEN is effective as a schoolteacher protecting a girl who inadvertently has the dark soul implanted in her by a stranger she trusts . ELIAS KOTEAS is the intense young man who abandoned his plans for the priesthood and has become a detective on the hunt for a killer of souls . VIGGO MORTENSEN does a sinister job as Lucifer , whispering his lines with a rasping intensity and making a vivid impression in a brief role . Like THE DA VINCI CODE , it takes religious elements and weaves them into a story of good vs . evil using angels in a way that is seldom ever done and making an intriguing tale of suspense based on the darkness of the human soul . CHRISTOPHER WALKEN has a great time as the Archangel Gabriel , ruling over everyone with a number of nasty lines and knowing winks , with overtones of humor throughout his devilish performance . Strictly for horror fans who want their imagination to turn on a different sort of fantasy with religious motifs - - the sort of horror film that some will find offensive and other will enjoy tremendously . Summing up : Good , intense performances from the entire cast .
World's greatest archer demonstrates his skill . . .	HOWARD HILL , the man who really split that arrow in THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD , is the star here in a short subject dedicated to his prowess as an archer . The short begins with three woman practicing their skill with the bow and arrow , a glimpse of olden times with scenes from ROBIN HOOD and ELIZABETH AND ESSEX , and then the introduction of real-life archer HOWARD HILL who is glad to demonstrate what he can do with some trick shots . One of his stunts involves a double arrow which hits its mark accurately , while others , aside from shooting normal targets , involve a young man willing to place an apple on his head , then a smaller fruit in order to have Howard shoot the target with precision accuracy . He also does a mirror shot , facing away from the target and depending on the mirror image to make his mark . No wonder he was billed here as The World's Greatest Archer . It didn't hurt that Warner Bros . was about to re-release THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD for another theatrical showing .
Old blue eyes and Nancy carry the hour with favorite tunes . . .	Another FRANK SINATRA show from ' 66 has him opening with FLY ME TO THE MOON and closing with PUT YOUR DREAMS AWAY FOR A LITTLE WHILE . It's a breezy hour show with Sinatra looking as jaunty and comfortable before an audience as he ever did . He seems in a bouncy mood as he goes through a whole slew of his favorite songs , as well as a brief duet sequence with Nancy , who says she'd been in the business for six months when this show aired and already had a couple of Gold platters . His songs include : FLY ME TO THE MOON , THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE WORLD , MOONLIGHT IN VERMONT and NOBODY TILL SOMEBODY LOVES YOU . Then Nancy came on and sang two of her hits , BANG , BANG HE SHOT ME DOWN and ON Broadway before dad joins her for YES , SIR THAT'S MY BABY and DOWNTOWN . And finally , the two of them join in for her hit song , THESE BOOTS WERE MADE FOR WALKING . Sinatra winds up his segment of the show with IT WAS JUST ONE OF THOSE THINGS , MY HEART STOOD STILL , LOVE IS BEAUTIFUL , LUCK BE A LADY ( at his zesty best ) , THAT'S LIFE , GRANADA and CHICAGO . With Nelson Riddle and Gordon Jenkins arrangements , it's a solid show for Sinatra fans to enjoy and a bit of nostalgia too .
Satisfactory version is better than the dated ' 33 classic . . .	WINONA RYDER makes an impressive Jo in Louisa May Alcott's LITTLE WOMEN , tomboyishly charming and persuasive as she matures into a fine young writer . She won a Best Actress nomination , but strangely , her career never took off as strongly as it should have after this success . Except for GIRL INTERRUPTED , she hasn't had a recent string of hits nor has she been as busy at her craft as one would expect . A good Jo is essential for the story to work , and since everyone else is well cast this is no problem . SUSAN SARANDON does a nice job as Marmee and the priceless MARY WICKES ( in one of her last roles ) is a formidable Aunt March . Christian BALE ( who went on to much better roles in the future ) makes a completely acceptable Laurie , and the sisters are well played by KIERSTEN DUNST ( especially good as the young Amy ) , CLAIRE DANES , SAMANTHA MATHIS and TRINI ALVARADO . Filmed in Canada , there's a genuinely wintry look to the New England landscapes and a warm glow to the interior scenes that is perfectly in keeping with the story . In fact , all of the technical elements are in fine order . But somehow , it never quite reaches the grandeur of Alcott's beautifully written tale and , for a film based on a classic novel , doesn't linger in the memory as it should when the distance of a few years have passed . It should have been a minor masterpiece , but misses the mark , although it's considerably more worthwhile watching than the sweet George Cukor version with Katharine Hepburn which now seems awfully dated in style and conception . There are some modern sensibilities written into this LITTLE WOMEN ( thanks to Susan Sarandon's observations as the mother ) and , in general , it plays more believably than the ' 33 classic .
As overloaded with star cameos as " Ship of Fools " and twice as inflated . . .	There is such a thing as too much of a good thing - - but nobody seemed to realize this when overloading the ship with star names and then giving them little to do . Although based on a true incident , VOYAGE OF THE DAMNED gives the subject a sprawling Hollywood treatment and does what " Ship of Fools " did to Katherine Anne Porter's intriguing novel . At least MAX VON SYDOW gets to be dynamic as the captain and has the appropriate amount of star footage , but others - - like JAMES MASON , JULIE HARRIS and WENDY HILLER - - are gone before they can do much . However , the film's chief fault is the running time - - well over two hours without ever building up the tension when the fate of the passengers should be pumping up audience interest in the outcome . The story takes a dramatic turn when the Jewish passengers are denied entry into Cuba and must return to their homeland unless the captain can come up with a better plan . FAYE DUNAWAY makes a stunning impression and LEE GRANT got an Oscar nomination for her strong supporting role , but others in the large cast come and go in an indifferent manner - - except for OSKAR WERNER , who seems to be doing a repeat of his role in " Ship of Fools " as the ship's doctor and is as earnest as ever . Too bad the storyline couldn't have been trimmed to give the film a tighter length . As it is , it just seems to make its point of man's inhumanity to man without subtlety . Just misses being a more significant film .
Rita makes tempestuous but artificial beauty as Carmen . . .	There are times when RITA HAYWORTH , with her flashing eyes , heady mane of tresses and way with castanets and Spanish dances , amply fills the role of Carmen in THE LOVES OF CARMEN . She captures the flirtatious moods and stormy temperament without any trouble at all , and yet somehow every ravishing close-up reminds us that she has just been all glammed up by the make-up artist , every brush on her lips and hair and brows just given the royal Hollywood glamor treatment . Her glamor is so distracting that it renders her Carmen unrealistic , even though she certainly has the temperament to go with the part . GLENN FORD is somber , stalwart and rugged enough as Don Jose but it doesn't seem like ideal casting . He looks uncomfortable in much of the early footage and only comes to life when he has killed a man and must spend the rest of the film on flight as a bandit and desperado in the rugged mountains . His performance strengthens and his love / hate relationship with Carmen is , for the most part , quite believable . But some pseudo-Spanish music in the background score with a hint of Bizet would have been a wise approach to scoring the film . And giving Rita more than a couple of fiery dances would have been a smarter idea . As it is , her dancing moments are when she most completely captures the spirit of Carmen . It's entertaining , in a lumbering sort of way - - not exactly the most well paced version of the story . Hayworth is gorgeous to look at with a peaches and cream complexion that fairly glows in Technicolor , but all of her close-ups remind us that she is The Love Goddess being given the high gloss glamor treatment by the studio that made her a star . But , reservations aside , for fans of Hayworth and Ford , this is a must see .
Two non-singers star in musical . . . results are only " okay " . . .	For some reason , I've never been a Damon Runyon fan . His characters are almost always cartoon-like ( LITTLE MISS MARKER , THE BIG STREET ) with odd names usually derived from gambling terms . Here the choreography uses a stylized approach that is probably in keeping with the cartoonish characters involved in the flimsy plot . A few of the songs are top notch , but the choreography lacks something , even from the opening number . And the songs , in the hands of capable singers , would have been a lot more enjoyable . As it is , MARLON BRANDO was chosen to play Sky Masterson , he with a less than average way of belting out a tune - - and prim JEAN SIMMONS plays the pretty Salvation Army miss in bland style ( until the Havana nightclub scene ) with her own unimpressive singing voice . She and Brando both fling themselves around amusingly for the impromptu nightclub dance number - - but it seems totally out of character for her Salvation Army image . That leaves VIVIAN BLAINE as Adelaide to give some professional polish to her songs ( which she does , but in that nasal Adelaide voice that gets irritating after the first half-hour ) . Then too , STUBBY KAYE ( " I've got the horse right here " ) is right at home with the Runyon material and the songs , as is the always dependable SHELDON LEONARD . And , of course , FRANK SINATRA , as Nathan Detroit ( too bad he's not the one who gets to sing " Luck Be A Lady " ) is equally at home with Runyon's style . But it's a musical about floating crap games that must have worked much better on the stage . The film is too long , sags in the middle during the Havana sequence , and the entire affair looks artificial and stylized to such an extent that believability suffers . No one sings or acts naturally , which is another big drawback . You almost expect the curtain to fall after certain scenes are played . Definitely not the kind of musical I'd watch again . Once is enough . However , I'm sure fans of Brando and Jean Simmons ( who think both of them can indeed sing ) won't mind watching this one .
Buzz-Buzz uses his stinger on Donald . . .	Among a series of " bee " pictures starring Donald Duck , antagonized by a bee who likes to use his stinger , Walt Disney gets a lot of chuckles out of INFERIOR DECORATOR , with Donald unwittingly putting up wallpaper with a floral design that attracts the busy little bee . Full of energetic antics from Donald and the bee , these " B " pictures delighted Donald's fans and Buzz-Buzz was used in many a Donald film short . Here Donald gets tangled up in the wallpaper while attempting to thwart the bee's attack mode , but manages to get out of a sticky situation by letting the bee get his stinger into a cork . The bee isn't through and signals a swarm of bees to launch an attack on poor Donald . Fortunately , the short closes before we see the final attack . A typically amusing Donald Duck cartoon where all his good intentions end in frustration .
Wartime pitch for buying bonds . . .	This is one of those patriotic shorts produced during WWII that asked patrons of the movie theater to buy U . S . Defense Bonds or Savings Bonds at the nearest Federal Reserve Bank or Post Office . Most of the full-length features made by the major studios , always included a closing credit that said something like : " Buy U . S . Defense Bonds . . . " . Soldier Robinson makes the pitch for his fellow countrymen to buy war bonds and a montage shows how the money is put to good use by the government on all sorts of defense projects . He's an earnest young man and makes a nice presentation , but the material is all pretty obvious and not quite as inspirational as intended . A good example of the prevailing American sentiment at the time . Incidentally , it was on one of the bond-selling tours that movie stars made that Carole Lombard lost her life when the plane she was in crashed into a mountainside .
Spy story in documentary style stars Andrews and Tierney . . .	Fox was doing several spy documentaries in the ' 40s in the style of 13 RUE MADELEINE and THE HOUSE ON 92nd STREET , and this is one of their less melodramatic stories of espionage performed in low-key style by DANA ANDREWS and GENE TIERNEY . Andrews is Igor Gouzenko , a Russian who is part of a Canadian spy ring . He has a taste of freedom when he lives in Canada and decides to defect with his wife and young son , but not before taking classified documents with him which he intends to hand over to the authorities . Director William A . Wellman gets just a moderate amount of suspense out of the true life story , deciding not to go for melodramatics but having the whole story played out in low-key style befitting a documentary type of film . There's even some narration to frame the story . Andrews gives a decent performance , tight-lipped and determined to leave his Russian heritage behind and find freedom in Canada under the protection of the Royal Canadian police . Tierney gives one of her more sincere performances as the wife , concerned for the welfare of her child and his right to grow up under democracy's freedom . A bit too much propaganda but nicely photographed and played by a competent cast , including EDUARD FRANZ in a rather showier role . Lacks the dramatic power it might have had if a more melodramatic approach had been used .
Burt Lancaster stars and directs himself in minor western . . .	BURT LANCASTER stars as THE KENTUCKIAN who has a yearning to go where the grass is greener and wants to leave Kentucky for a new life in Texas with his young son in tow . DIANA LYNN is a pretty schoolteacher at the schoolhouse cabin and DIANNE FOSTER is the other female lead , an indentured servant , with a yen for Lancaster . Good supporting roles for WALTER MATTHAU ( making his screen debut ) and JOHN CARRADINE . JOHN LITEL makes a welcome appearance as a riverboat man , but the story lacks a strong enough plot to maintain interest in the rather pedestrian proceedings . Filmed in widescreen color and CinemaScope , it looks as though a lavish budget has been expended on a tiresome script . Fortunately , the film picks up interest toward the last fifteen minutes when Lancaster and his son have to defend themselves against badman Matthau and his cohorts . There's also a confrontational bullwhip scene with Matthau and Lancaster that is well staged and effective . But the story is rather trite and there's nothing special about Lancaster's performance or his direction . I would have preferred a more appealing youngster for Young Eli than DONALD MacDONALD who walks through his role without ever inhabiting it .
Gloria Grahame's fans should love this little gem . . .	MARY ASTOR and PHILIP DORN are the nominal stars of BLONDE FEVER , but it's perky GLORIA GRAHAME in her film debut that makes the biggest impression . " There are only two kinds of girls , " she tells the amorous Dorn . " Good girls and the other kind , and I certainly hope I'm not the other kind . " MARHSALL THOMPSON plays her frustrated boyfriend . Gloria Grahame gets a chance to show her sultry innocence as the waitress who fancies herself in love with wealthy restaurant owner , the middle-aged Philip Dorn . He encourages her infatuation , even telling her he'll leave his wife Mary Astor , if she will marry him . The matrimonial discord gets a workout during the rest of the plot , but it all ends happily with Grahame riding off with Thompson on his motorcycle and Astor and Dorn reconciling their differences . Trivia note : Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy have a brief moment on screen as a couple dining in Dorn's restaurant . And Astor refers to Grahame as " the surry with the fringe on top " , ironic in view of the fact that Gloria later played Ado Annie in Rodgers and Hammerstein's OKLAHOMA !
A nostalgic look at a small American turn in the early 1900s . . .	Nostalgic but not exactly stimulating is my brief description of this rather quiet little short subject narrated by John Nesbitt , a tribute to his old hometown . Images of spring , firecrackers on the 4th of July , farmers ploughing the land , a boy fishing and swimming with pals , school days , high school graduation exercises , and young men pursuing more adult pleasures such as the poolroom , dances , summer concerts , etc . The narration concludes with the statement that " No path leads to yesterday , " and the glimpse of small town life is over as the scene shifts to the present day 1948 . Anyone who has grown up on MGM films can spot scenes from " Our Vines Have Tender Grapes " used as stock footage with " Butch " Jenkins as the boy doing the fishing and seen in a couple of other farm images .
One of the better Disney family comedies from the ' 60s . . .	The Siamese cat not only has the title role , he steals the film ! The silly plot involves a couple of bumbling bank robbers ( FRANK GORSHIN is one of them ) , who kidnap a woman from the bank who's able to signal for help by putting her wrist watch around the cat's neck . The cat belongs to HAYLEY MILLS , who picks up on the signal and then must convince the FBI to help her ( and her cat ) find the robbers in time to save the woman . DEAN JONES is the earnest but bumbling FBI man who decides to help Hayley . All of the incidents surrounding the cat are deftly handled with a great deal of humor . ELSA LANCHESTER and WILLIAM DEMAREST are funny as snooping neighbors and RODDY McDOWALL and ED WYNN have some good moments too . But it's HAYLEY MILLS at her most appealing and " that darn cat " that really steal the show . The cat " DC " is simply amazingly natural and perhaps the most convincing member of the cast . Summing up : One of the better Disney comedies during the ' 60s .
When Doris sings " April in Paris " all is forgiven . . .	True , even for the breezy 1950s , the plot for this musical is as light as a feather - - but if you are a DORIS DAY fan , as I certainly was during these early Day films at Warner Bros . , you'll be enchanted by her way with a song - - particularly " I'm Gonna Ring the Bell Tonight " , " April in Paris " and " That's What Makes Paris Par-ee " . And on top of that , she excels in all of her dance routines , even those in which RAY BOLGER clearly has the spotlight to himself . It's one of those mistaken identity plots that Warners used extensively throughout the ' 40s and ' 50s , something about a showgirl being mistaken for a diplomat and mistakenly invited to represent the U . S . at a French festival . Naturally , all is straightened out in time for a happy ending although I can't say I detected any real chemistry between Bolger and Day - - even in a musical where logic doesn't really matter . The dances staged by LeRoy Prinz are not the best , but there are some cheerful , well staged moments when Bolger gets to do his tap routines and limber legged dancing . All in all , it passes the time pleasantly if you have a weakness for musicals the way they were in the ' 50s . And Doris proves that singing wasn't her only asset . Her dancing is also very professional ( and not surprisingly , she intended to become a dancer before an accident ruined her plans and she switched to singing ) .
Amusing comedy gets better after a slow start . . .	LAUREL & HARDY are next door neighbors ( married to DOROTHY CHRISTY and MAE BUSCH , respectively ) , both strong-minded women who remind me of the " Alice Kramden " character on " The Honeymooners " . Neither one wants their hubby to go to a Chicago convention of The Sons of the Desert , so the boys have to fake an excuse in order to bamboozle their wives into thinking Oliver is following his doctor's orders to get a restful vacation in Honolulu . At the convention , it's a hoot to see dancing girls in Hawaian costumes ( beefy and overweight by today's anorexic standards ) while a slim male singer / dancer renders " Honolulu Baby " in a tenor voice . CHARLEY CHASE has a field day playing practical jokes on the boys , but it's the return home part of the story that really is the set-up for the best gags . In fact , it's the last twenty-five minutes that puts the film over the top as one of the best Laurel & Hardy features . Written by Frank Craven ( the film actor , who also contributed to several screenplays ) and directed by George A . Seiter , it's obviously the forerunner of many situation comedies about quarreling husbands and wives trying to outsmart each other . Stan is surprisingly funny when given a long , wordy sentence to say , and Oliver's facial reactions ( especially when he fixes his gaze on the camera as if to say , ' Can you believe this ? ' ) , are priceless . Lots of fun for fans of the comedians .
Simple , heart-warming tale of struggling immigrant family . . .	My only complaint is that 134 minutes is too long a time to tell such a simple tale of a Norwegian family's struggle to survive in the early 1900s as seen through the wistful eyes of daughter BARBARA BEL GEDDES . IRENE DUNNE is remarkably convincing as the kindly mother with braided blonde hair and Norwegian accent , dealing not only with several children but numerous relatives . She's given able assistance from a wonderful supporting cast that includes ELLEN CORBY , memorable as the silly , spinsterish Aunt Trina , OSKAR HOMOLKA as a loud-mouthed uncle , and EDGAR BERGEN , PHILIP DORN , BARBARA O'NEIL , RUDY VALLEE and FLORENCE BATES in assorted character roles that are genuinely warm and funny . But , as stated above , it does move at a leisurely pace and adheres too closely to the stage play despite the opening up of a few outdoor scenes . Very likely it's the sort of pace that will turn off younger viewers in search of something more lively . Summing up : A warm-hearted and nostalgic piece of Americana .
Mixed feelings about this adaptation of Pearl Buck's " The Good Earth " . . .	Although there are faults , THE GOOD EARTH manages to hold the viewer's interest in a lengthy film because of George Sidney's smoothly competent direction and the performances of PAUL MUNI , as the naive farmer Wang Lung , and to a lesser extent , LUISE RAINER as O-Lan , his peasant wife . Helpful too is the fact that the film's atmosphere is artfully crafted with sets and costumes that look lived in . I've never been much of an admirer of Miss Rainer's acting style , but at least she seems credible in the role . However , her character is so passive that there are times when she appears to be sleep-walking through the part in an attempt to portray the completely submissive and meek nature of her lowly character . It gets tiresome after awhile and too one-note to stir much sympathy . She uses those big eyes and downcast expression to convey emotion but has very little to say about anything , which leaves Muni with a lot to do . By contrast , PAUL MUNI is almost a little too animated as the young Chinese farmer who takes a wife because in a male dominated culture she'll help him harvest his crop and bear his children . But he has much more acting to do than Rainer ( and ten times the amount of dialog ) and does it well . He too was deserving of an award but instead he was nominated that year for another film . CHARLEY GRAPEWIN and WALTER CONNOLLY are not exactly examples of good casting for the most prominent supporting roles as Asians . Both of them are hardly recognizable beneath their make-up , especially Connolly as the greedy , non-working uncle . I didn't know it was him until I read the credits . KEY Luke is fine as the eldest son and TILLY LOSCH makes an interesting , exotic creature as Lotus , the dancer . But the story itself is a bit depressing , since it deals more with the hardships and bitter struggle against nature that all farmers have to endure than it does with any reward they have for their efforts . The big crowd scene at a palace where Rainer almost gets shot as a looter is handled very effectively and , of course , the plague of locusts swarming across the fields is something spectacular to watch . These scenes have the sweep of an epic , but the story is more intimate and is really an examination of man's fortitude against nature . For all of its trials and tribulations and its simple story of a man and woman who depend on the earth for a living , this can be highly depressing rather than inspirational in that there are many more grim scenes of failure than brief moments of success . The story is structured in such a way that you can almost see the downbeat threat looming over every scene . In other words , the gloom and doom elements of the story are going to alienate some viewers . But serious movie-goers who love the classics of the ' 30s will probably be able to sit through this without too much trouble , although some cutting would have helped during the first hour where the pace is much too slow .
Very informative " making of " documentary on " Atonement " . . .	A behind-the-scenes look at the making of ATONEMENT is divided into several chapters dealing with various aspects of bringing the novel to life . Director Joe Wright dominates with his description of what he was trying to do in having the script follow the novel even more faithfully than it did in the first draft . He's shown directing various scenes with actors JAMES McAVOY , KEIRA KNIGHTLEY and others , explaining how certain effects were wanted . Make-up artists and costume designers also talk about their work on the film , but the most interesting section deals with the epic Dunkirk scene which had to be photographed in a long five-minute trek of the camera following the three soldiers as they wandered around the area filled with soldiers , horses , fairgrounds , etc . After the scene involving at least a thousand extras as soldiers was filmed , the director thanked the cast and crew for all their hard work at getting exactly what he wanted . VANESSA REDGRAVE describes how all the inter-connected layers of the story were held together so well by the fine script , praising the novel for being wonderful source material . Anyone who has seen the film will appreciate the care that went into this documentary .
Price gets his revenge in campy horror role . . .	VINCENT PRICE fans must have assumed the actor had quit playing the lead in horror films after the cycle wore itself out during the ' 50s and ' 60s , but he came back strong in this stylishly produced thriller in widescreen and color . He's a mad serial killer who intends to take revenge on a bunch of doctors and then join his wife in the afterlife . After being disfigured in a car wreck that killed his wife , he's determined to get revenge on physicians responsible for what he considered the murder of his wife who died on the operating table . The revenge motif starts with the first shocking scene of a man's bedroom being invaded by bats , just one in a series of baffling murders being committed by the madman . " Medical men die every day , " say the Scotland Yard detectives assigned to the case , after three medical men have died . Little does he know the case is just beginning . The police are always one step behind , too late to prevent any of the killings , each accomplished in a very stylized way with a devilish flair of imagination ( highly contrived , of course , in true horror movie fashion ) . Cotten is the last victim on Phibe's list and his fate is saved for the last segment in the film as he is forced on a mission to save his son from certain death . All of this is handled with a good deal of tension and suspense up until the final moments . A good entry in the horror cycle , if a bit late in Price's career , but he still had the capacity to carry this sort of thing off with a flair for the macabre . Joseph COTTEN appears a little ill at ease in his role as the last victim - - probably with good reason - - but actually it's one of his better latter day roles . Trivia note : Seemed like an anachronism to hear the song " One for My Baby and One More for the Road " sung during the film which supposedly takes place in the 1920s . Song wasn't written until 1943 by Johnny Mercer for the Fred Astaire film , " The Sky's the Limit " and later became a big hit in 1958 for Frank Sinatra .
A stagey setting for a florid melodrama from John Huston . . .	While KEY LARGO is certainly no masterpiece , it IS highly entertaining , thanks largely to two larger than life performances from EDWARD G . ROBINSON ( at his mightiest ) and CLAIRE TREVOR ( who manages to steal every scene she is in as a lush past her prime as a torch singer ) . But it's not quite the sort of thing Bogart and Bacall fans were used to . Lauren is much more demure than usual , very low-key but earnest in her performance and she does well in a part that is not quite as sultry as her other roles of this period . Bogart too is low-key in a rather colorless role ( for him anyway ) , as a soldier who drops in on Bacall and her father ( Lionel Barrymore ) at a hotel in the Florida keys to give them information about her soldier husband . The oncoming storm is nothing compared to the histrionics of EDWARD G . ROBINSON who chews up all the scenery in sight as a gangster almost as black-hearted as his Wolf Larsen in THE SEA WOLF , even though most of the scenery is confined to a couple of hotel settings . Surprisingly , for a film directed by John Huston , he has allowed the storm aspect to be the least realistic part of the setting . It all seems to take place on a Warner sound stage with banging shutters and loose pictures on the wall , but not much of a storm to be concerned about except when miniatures are shown of a very strong tide and a hotel battered by winds and rain . But these are minor squabbles when all the performances are edgy and wonderful , particularly Thomas Gomez , Dan Seymour and Marc Lawrence . But it's CLAIRE TREVOR and EDW . G . ROBINSON that have the most powerful roles and they play them with every bit of professionalism they can muster - - and that's plenty . Trevor has never been more effective and richly deserved her Supporting Role Oscar . Some of the film drags , burdened by too much of Maxwell Anderson's stage dialog which tends to give a static look to some of the scenes , but the last half-hour is full of vigorous movement as the story reaches a satisfying climax . If you're looking for a typical Bogart / Bacall film , this is not it . But it is good , solid entertainment .
" Baby , you knock me out ! " sizzles with original choreography . . .	Noteworthy for a couple of stunningly choreographed numbers - - namely , " Baby , You Knock Me Out ! " with CYD CHARISSE and the boxers at Stillman's Gym going through some fantastic acrobatics , and DOLORES GRAY singing " Thanks A Lot , But No Thanks " to a bevy of loose-limbed chorus boys who gyrate to the tune with some acrobatic flip-flops - - well , in those moments IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER really sizzles and comes to life . But unfortunately , the script by Comden and Greene is only fitfully witty and is not on par with some of their other MGM greats and the other numbers are not quite catchy enough to create much more than a passing remark and likely to be quickly forgotten . Even more detrimental is the fact that while GENE KELLY gets a fair share of nice musical turns ( his cool roller-skating routine is really polished ) , DAN DAILEY ( a great singer / dancer talent ) is given the worst material imaginable and much less screen time to shine . MICHAEL KIDD is also underused but shows a nice flair for comedy , as well as his dancing skills . But the three men , when sharing a split screen for a couple of their dances , are as nimble and talented as can be . DOLORES GRAY has to get mixed reviews . When she's acting as the TV host of a " reality " show that puts surprised guests on the air , she's as phony as a three dollar bill - - and overacts to the nth degree with what she supposes is syrupy charm . But when she goes into her big dance routine with those acrobatic chorus boys , well - - it's on par with Judy Garland's " Get Happy " routine from SUMMER STOCK , which is high praise indeed since that's considered a Garland highlight . Gray's routine is even more imaginatively staged for maximum effect . While not quite up to the standards of other Stanley Donen-directed musicals , IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER is worth watching for the splendid performances ( even CYD CHARISSE warms up in that boxing scene ) . The only drawback is it never quite overcomes the dark streak that runs through the plot , showing how three men can despise each other when a ten year reunion brings them together and forces them to realize how their values have changed . This must have given the plot extra relevance after the war years ended , but it does put a damper on the overall plot line .
A look at Saturday mornings when the world was young . . .	This John Nesbitt documentary for the PASSING PARADE series is a warm-hearted look at America's love for the family automobile . It begins with the dad of the family purchasing the first car in 1900 , a horseless carriage his wife was afraid to step into - - a Columbus Roadmaster he bought for $850 . The years pass quickly - - a 1905 Holzman , a family car called the Mitchell for a next-door neighbor , in 1910 the Stanley Steamer attracts the neighborhood kids , and then the 1913 Model T Ford . By the 1930s dad's kid has a jalopy he bought for $45 , the ice wagon is now the ice truck and the neighborhood has become the typical busy modern looking residential street lined with autos . Nice performances from ARTHUR SPACE and JACQUELINE WHITE as ma and pa with BILLY GRAY as a little boy , with graceful narration by John Nesbitt . Well done short is a slice of Americana .
Futile efforts by the Nazis to shut down a resistance newspaper during WWI . . .	The fighting spirit of Belgium during the war years of WWI is documented in this " Passing Parade " tribute to the Belgian resistance . It documents the many instances wherein the Nazis tried to crush the spirit of the Belgian people by shutting down their newspaper , killing the various editors who inevitably came back under new leadership . This resistance went on for a few years until the war was over , at which time Von Heinrich received the Iron Cross from the Secret Police for wiping out the " Free Belgium " press . At least , that's what he thought - - until not long afterwards the paper was running again under a new editor . It reappeared in 1938 and again the Belgians refused to let it die , sending its message of hope to Norway , Holland , Poland and Belgium . One of the more interesting in the " Passing Parade " series by John Nesbitt .
Better than usual entry with some good disguises . . .	Blackie and his sidekick , The Runt , are up to their usual tricks again , this time assuming various disguises in TRAPPED BY BOSTON BLACKIE , one of the better entries in the series . GEORGE E . STONE as The Runt has less whining and less forced comic moments than usual and even CHESTER MORRIS is less of a wise guy although he still has some overly cute moments with wisecracks . The story concerns stolen pearls and opens at a costume party where Blackie and The Runt are assigned by a wealthy woman to keep watch over her pearls . From there on , it becomes a straightforward Blackie adventure peppered with a musical segment and the usual run-ins with the police and Inspector Farraday ( RICHARD LANE ) and his bumbling assistant . Farraday , too , has been toned down for this entry and is less sarcastic than usual . JUNE VINCENT provides some eye candy as a blonde beauty . There are no real surprises but the ending wraps things up neatly with the usual explanations offered by Farraday . Summing up : Better than usual Blackie .
Anthony Dexter is fictionalized Valentino in typical Hollywood bio . . .	ANTHONY DEXTER , thanks to make-up artists and costuming , makes a believable stand-in as Rudolf Valentino , the silent screen's biggest male heartthrob , but creative license had to be taken with the screenplay because many of the participants in Valentino's life threatened to sue . The result is a rather lifeless bio smacking of Hollywood artifice . This standard treatment of the Valentino story is interesting mainly because it gives a pretty accurate look at a period during the 1920s when silent films were the rage . It also provides some nice eye candy in the form of ELEANOR PARKER and PATRICIA MEDINA , both easy on the eyes and capable enough actresses to bring some life to a rather dull screenplay . All of it has been photographed in luscious Technicolor under Lewis Allen's direction . He gets the most out of the dance sequences and it's here that Dexter's Valentino really comes to life . Otherwise , it's a pretty one-note performance throughout . Director Allen lets DONA DRAKE do her usual job of strenuously over-acting the role of a hot blooded Spanish dancer who is too aware of Valentino's roving eye . There are times when Dexter's Valentino resembles George Raft rather than the silent superstar . RICHARD CARLSON and OTTO KRUGER do nicely as director and producer , and other parts are well played . I have no idea how much of the script is strictly fiction but it seems to capture the essence of the Valentino story , showing his early reputation as a gigolo and his eventual climb to stardom through a series of well mounted adventure romances . Eleanor Parker gives the story class with her performance as Joan Carlisle , a co-star Valentino is continually getting a brush-off from , and eventually marrying Richard Carlson's character . The on again / off again romantic relationship between Parker and Dexter is at the heart of the story . How much of it is strictly fiction , I don't know . His illness and subsequent death comprise the last scenes , but the dramatics involving disclosure of his affair with Carlisle seems like a creation of the scriptwriter . The mysterious lady in black who brings a rose to his gravesite every year is mentioned and gives a touch of mystery to those final scenes . Nice attempt at a bio , but it's an uneven , surface profile of the star and never gets one deeply involved in his story .
Tom Tryon and Gloria Henry in good sci-fi B-film from the ' 50s . . .	The surprise of this little sci-fi epic is GLORIA HENRY , who manages to convey all the right expressions as the wife who comes to realize that her husband is no longer the man she married . TOM TRYON is the man who early on is attacked by an alien who takes over his body . From then on , Tryon's robot-like acting fits the demands of his role beautifully , since he only has one expression on his impossibly handsome face at all times . Talk about one-dimensional ! He looks like a department store mannequin come to life - - almost . It's a good thing he had a career as a Gothic writer ahead of him . However , it's the tight script , the crisp B & W photography , the jagged bits of music , and the eerie plot that bears more than a slight resemblance to " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " that is guaranteed to keep you awake - - even though it is obviously a B-film with no big pretensions to be anything else . Possible SPOILER AheadIt's another one of those tales where the poor wife dares not trust any of the citizens of a small town - - since any one of them might have turned into an alien , like her hubby . The plot builds to a nice climactic shootout and her husband is returned to her . We know he's assumed his own body again because he actually breaks into a grin before the fadeout . Summing up : Brisk , entertaining little sci-fi tale , the kind that was popular with audiences in the ' 50s .
Amusing , but only up to a point . . . strives to be excruciatingly funny . . .	Preston Sturgess has Rex Harrison emoting at a frantic pace , so much so that the others in the cast seem barely able to keep up with him . Rudy Vallee does , and gives another one of his expert comic performances as Harrison's stuffy brother-in-law who claims to hate music . Barbara Lawrence as his sarcastic wife has a few good one-liners that she tosses at Vallee . And Linda Darnell does a good job of showing slavish devotion to her brilliant conductor husband Harrison . But therein lies the weakness in the premise . Darnell is so obviously devoted ( to the extreme and with extreme patience ) to her temperamental artist of a husband , that it is inconceivable that he would , for one moment , suspect her of infidelity based on hearsay and immediately have her followed by detectives . There are three flashbacks - - with at least one of them being very clever while the others don't quite fit the bill . But the final scene ( back to reality ) is an uneven blend of slapstick and sight gags that simply go on too long before the windup which has him adoring his wife again . Not Sturgess at his best and it's the script that's the main weakness because the acting is fine . Rex Harrison seems to be doing a rehearsal for Henry Higgins and Linda Darnell is charming ( if unbelievably patient ) as the doting wife . Good support from Lionel Stander , Barbara Lawrence and Kurt Kreuger , as well as Edgar Kennedy . Not as excruciatingly funny as it strives to be with a weak finale . A big bonus is the effective use it makes of classical music .
Musical Merry-Go-Round # 5 has Frankie Carle and His Orchestra . . .	This is one of the better Musical-Merry-Go Round shorts produced by MGM and featuring Martin Bloch introducing various bands and their best numbers . # 5 features Martin introducing nimble pianist and composer / orchestra leader Frankie Carle opening with " Sweet and Lovely , " with Carle at the piano and the orchestra behind him . We meet his daughter , Marjorie Hughes , singing the ballad , and explaining to Bloch that she grew up in a musical household and sang with the band for a couple of years . Carle is featured again on a number called " Sleepy Time Gal " with some male singers . Marjorie sings an original Carle composition , " Oh , What It Seemed To Be " and then the short concludes with Carle's nimble fingered piano version of his own song , " Sunrise Boogie . " Well done and one of the most enjoyable musical shorts I've seen in a long time .
Ambitious western aims high but falls far short of goal . . .	Of course , the best way to view HOW THE WEST WAS WON is seeing it in all its splendor on a big theater screen as intended . My review is based on the full screen presentation on AMC , but it's obvious that the film had to be much more effective as a theatrical offering . First , the flaws : A boring narration by SPENCER TRACY is delivered in dull style by the actor and works against the material . The story itself tries to cram so much western history into the tale that it becomes a series of choppy vignettes that are only able to hint at all the pioneering spirit that went into the making of the American West . Furthermore , by putting DEBBIE REYNOLDS at the center of the piece only emphasizes the superficial aspect of some of the casting choices . Reynolds is so modern in behavior that she makes it hard to see her as a pioneer woman , but more like an MGM musical comedy actress who was stretching herself to play more serious roles . The bouncy musical score helps considerably in boosting the story values and is one of the more enjoyable aspects of watching the film . The performances that linger in the memory once the dust has settled are given by GEORGE PEPPARD , CARROLL BAKER , LEE J . COBB , ROBERT PRESTON and ELI WALLACH . Some less distinguished work by GREGORY PECK and HENRY FONDA fades into the background . Even JOHN WAYNE as General Sherman and HARRY MORGAN as Ulysses S . Grant fail to make much of an impression in brief cameos . The Civil War sequence was most impressive , with Baker and Peppard as mother and son before the conflict giving genuinely moving performances , she as an embittered mother resigned to losing her son to war and he as a naive farmboy anxious to join the fight . The liveliest and best staged sequence is the railroad attack that climaxes the film with some stunning camera-work of runaway trains and perilous stunts that grip the attention . The tacked on corny ending with Reynolds lifting her voice in song seems jarring after the realism of the action scene , symptomatic of the entire film which seems to be an uneven combination of sentimental corn and rousing action or battle scenes . Summing up : Episodic way of viewing history from Hollywood standpoint , but rugged western does have some stirring moments .
A feast for Alec Guinness fans . . .	A nice chance to see ALEC GUINNESS as a mad abstract artist with KAY WALSH as his bitterly complaining friend in THE HORSE'S MOUTH . Guinness also wrote the script which has him as a mad artist - - crusty , eccentric , but sometimes lovable - - who has a knack for getting into trouble whenever he decides to splash his paints on any bare wall . I must say the resulting paintings are not to my taste , so I squirmed uncomfortably at the sight of them . But the film is really a character study of the eccentric man and his close friendship with some equally weird friends . Ronald Neame uses the Technicolor camera to capture some nice scenes of London , but the story is essentially a two-character study that works because of the excellent performances of Guinness and Walsh . Summing up : Uneven results but generally amusing and entertaining with some very funny moments .
Rosalind Russell fails to use the velvet touch . . .	ROSALIND RUSSELL is a stage actress who accidentally murders a lecherous producer ( LEON AMES ) in this melodramatic show biz story that has Russell trapped in a web of deception after killing Ames . Their stormy relationship is revealed in flashbacks as Russell thinks back on what led up to the murder . Unfortunately , Russell lends not a velvet touch to the proceedings , but an artificial one . Her stage actress is full of Russell's most studied mannerisms , including shifty-eyed side glances whenever pangs of guilt are displayed . She's all artifice , but because she's playing a stage actress I suppose it's forgivable . Still , a little less posturing and more real acting would have helped . CLAIRE TREVOR , as her rival on and off the stage , does a less mannered job as the hard-boiled other woman . LEO GENN is the architect who never goes to the theater and doesn't know Russell at all . It is he who comes between Ames and Russell once she decides she loves him . Some of the plot contrivances are not exactly believable . Genn's sudden interest in the actress is one of them , as is their quickly falling in love . Forty-five minutes into the story SYDENY GREENSTREET makes his appearance to investigate the case and from this point on interest in the outcome mounts steadily as the investigation goes forward . But the whole story is hardly handled with any subtlety . No melodramatic moment is overlooked by actress Russell or director John Gage . And that goes for the cat-and-mouse game Greenstreet plays with Russell . He plays his role with finesse , but it's the script that finally defeats everyone , especially Russell whose guilt complex is overplayed throughout . Summing up : Interesting with some good moments but obvious . Trevor and Greenstreet steal the show , but Genn is wasted and Russell is ultimately a disappointment . Trivia note : Expensive theater tickets were $4 . 80 in 1948 .
Battle fatigue after three hours of heavy conflict . . .	Alexander is an ambitious project , whatever one may think of its shortcomings . The script has a hard time pinpointing what makes the great man tick - - and it's certainly muddled when it comes to all the conspiracy theories surrounding his youth and manhood . His mother is played by Angelina Jolie as a conniving temptress with an uncanny control over snakes - - a control she has over him as well , urging him to become the great leader in battles . Colin Farrell does the best he can with the florid dialog , full of pomposity and Shakespearean grandeur , but it's not a part that he really embodies with any great conviction . He does a workmanlike job but never really becomes the character . Nor is his relationship with his lover ( Jared Leto ) ever given more of a hint than intense glances can convey , as if Oliver Stone was reluctant to let the homophobic aspects of Alexander's life interfere with the storytelling . The battle scenes are realistic but fatiguing after awhile , following the accepted strategy of other action films by interspersing fierce battles with the quieter moments - - but never too quiet since most of the dialog consists of arguments between Alexander and his army of dedicated fighters . Val Killmer gives a vigorous performance as his father Michael , almost unrecognizable in his one-eyed make-up and red beard . Anthony Hopkins serves as a one man Greek chorus , narrating the tale in the manner of a bad DVD commentary . Christopher Plummer does a nice job as Aristotle , teaching the Greek youths about their mission in life . On the plus side , the background score by Vangelis is strikingly effective , as is Rodrigo Prieto's gorgeous cinematography . The look of the film is one of its strongest assets with authentic detail in costumes and settings . But the script is a yawner , going back and forth in time to fill in gaps that were intended to fill the viewer in on some missing points . It's a technique that tries the patience several times throughout the lengthy running time . This should find favor with a very limited audience of history buffs .
Not a bad sequel . . . Perkins is still a quirky fright . . .	PSYCHO II is not a bad sequel at all , but the first mistake was filming it in color . Since it depends on your familiarity with the original story and even photographs certain scenes the same way , it would have been much more effective if filmed in glorious B & W . There's a 1980s sensibility to this version because the gore is much more evident , especially in color when the film veers into the more violent territory that it's been heading for since scene one . ANTHONY PERKINS , twenty-two years later , is still just as effective as Norman Bates , the sensitive and very quirky creature who is no sooner released from a sanitarium than he begins getting phone calls from " mother " which slowly drive him up the wall . VERA MILES is back as the sister of the woman slain in the first PSYCHO , and MEG TILLY is the young woman Norman allows to stay in his house when she needs his assistance . There's a good deal of suspense milked out of every scary scene ( even when nothing really happens ) , and this is the mark of good direction by Richard Franklin . Trivia note : I ran into Perkins one day on a city street in NYC and stopped briefly to tell him that I greatly admired his work in PSYCHO . He gave me a Norman Bates kind of stare , plainly uncomfortable and not happy to only be remembered for his work in that long ago classic - - or so he thought . It gives me the shivers to remind me that off screen he was very much like the suspicious Norman Bates when confronting any of his fans .
Kerwin Matthews to the rescue of a bewitched princess . . .	Produced on a modest budget but filmed in color with some primitive looking special effects , JACK THE GIANT KILLER will probably be just the right sort of entertainment for its target audience - - kids . Stalwart KERWIN MATTHEWS , who seemed to be specializing in these kind of swordplay roles for awhile in the ' 60s , makes a good adventure hero and JUDI MEREDITH is a satisfactory princess who has to be rescued once she falls under the spell of the wicked TORIN THATCHER . Thatcher is the wizard / magician , power mad and obsessed with dethroning a king whose throne he covets . A good make-up job emphasizes his villainy , an attempt to convert him into a man resembling the Conrad Veidt character in THE THIEF OF BAGDAD . Despite the terrific make-up , Thatcher is never quite as chilling a villain as Veidt . ANNA LEE has a small role as a woman who falls under his evil spell and TUDOR OWEN is another familiar face in the supporting cast . Matthews has to fight one stop animation figure after another , all in good fun and perfect entertainment for the kids . Summing up : Not bad for the kiddies and adults will appreciate seeing the late Kerwin Matthews in the sort of action role he was known for .
Neat espionage yarn done in documentary style . . .	WALK A CROOKED MILE is the sort of brisk , documentary style espionage yarn so often made during the ' 40s , using narration to tell the story of two espionage agents ( DENNIS O'KEEFE and LOUIS HAYWARD ) assigned to track down whomever is responsible for leaking top secret information developed at a nuclear plant in California . Most of the action takes place in San Francisco , where O'Keefe and Hayward discover that an artist ( ONSLOW STEVENS ) is putting coded information beneath his paintings when he receives it from a spy working for the government agency . The story traces how the spy ring operates and it is these details that give the film added interest before the spies are caught . All of the methods must seem dated by today's standards of F . B . I . work , but the manner of presentation is gripping and the clever cat-and-mouse game that is played between the agents and the spies is credible and fascinating . It's smoothly directed by Gordon Douglas at a fast clip . RAYMOND BURR has his usual " bad guy " role as one of he spies , and LOUISE ALLBRITTON , CARL ESMOND , ART BAKER and CHARLES EVANS all make interesting suspects in the mystery behind the identity of the key traitor . Well worth viewing .
Aviation film with an early Van Heflin performance . . .	FLIGHT FROM GLORY is a rather generic title for a programmer that is reminiscent of another aviation story that came two years later with a bigger budget and bigger stars - - ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS . And yet , it's a tightly constructed drama that gives early exposure to VAN HEFLIN , as a pilot who likes to drink too much , but who lands a job flying planes over the Andes even though he's newly married to bride WHITNEY BOURNE . Running the decrepit fleet of planes is ONSLO STEVENS , a man who doesn't fly the planes himself but who is a strict manager responsible for sending a group of down-on-their-luck men to almost certain death . CHESTER MORRIS gets top billing as a man who's perceptive enough to realize that Whitney Bourne should never have come to the God forsaken airline and who forms an intimate association with her after trying to discourage her from liking him too much , since she's married to Heflin . There's a strong ending with Stevens getting his comeuppance and a nice finish for Morris and Bourne . Summing up : Interesting aviation drama worth watching mainly for the performances of Van Heflin and Onslo Stevens .
Sweet , charmingly old-fashioned story of star-crossed lovers . . .	With some good cinematography and a rather unsettling background score , LORNA DOONE is a movie my father always mentioned liking very much for story and content . He must have seen it when he was in his early thirties and often mentioned it as one of his favorite novels and movies . It's the rather familiar yarn of two people kept apart by the class system who were teen-age lovers separated by fate and then reunited years later when the girl has been held hostage by pirates and reared as one of the Doone clan . The years pass and by chance , during a fateful incident in the rapids , the young man ( JOHN BOWERS ) drifts toward Lorna's territory . When he awakens , she's tending to him and thus their story begins again . The title role is nicely played by MADGE BELLAMY who has a sweet , old-fashioned grace about her that makes her heroine appealing and vulnerable . She seldom goes into the silent film technique of acting , nor does Bowers , who does a splendid job as the stalwart hero . In reading about the film , I discovered that the ruggedly handsome Bowers committed suicide by drowning fourteen years after making this film , when his stardom was on the wane with the advent of talkies . It's rumored that he was the man depicted in A STAR IS BORN , Norman Maine , who walks into the ocean toward the finish . Summing up : Interesting tale , well told but almost too familiar for most of us who've seen variations of it or actual remakes of it over the years .
Amusing short has doubles representing famous stars of the ' 30s and ' 40s . . .	LEE DIXON is a stunt double who gets punched in the jaw and ends up at the dentist to have a tooth replaced . He's given gas by the dental assistant and immediately imagines himself acting opposite various stars of the silver screen . Among the stars , the Deanna Durbin double is the most effective - - as well as the Greta Garbo impersonation and Hugh Herbert . Less impressive but good enough were Mae West , Norma Shearer , Charles Laughton , Joe E . Brown , Zasu Pitts , Bing Crosby and Eddie Cantor . Enjoyment will depend solely on whether you recognize these performers or not . Other than that , there are a couple of so-so song numbers composed by Sammy Cahn and Saul Chaplin - - but nothing special .
Good popcorn movie is loaded with almost too much action . . .	A little more concentration on a witty script would have helped out when they decided to film THE MUMMY : TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR . But to tell the truth , this one in " The Mummy " series starring BRENDAN FRASER is a lot better than you would suspect from some of these reviews . Fraser gets to mouth some good lines once in awhile , but his performance seems to be lacking the sort of vitality he showed in the earlier " Mummy " films . MARIA BELLO has a convincing British accent but she's really not an acceptable replacement for RACHEL WEISZ nor does she blend well with Fraser . And , as others have commented , Luke FORD does look a bit too mature to be their grown son who has a habit of getting into trouble on a regular basis . It's a good thing JOHN HANNAH is around to lighten things up considerably whenever the action scenes need to be punched up a bit with laughter . He's the best holdover from the others in " The Mummy " series . It's obvious that this was an expensive undertaking - - with striking use of sets , costumes and CGI - - as well as a busy background score that accents all the danger and thrills . I found it an enjoyable way to spend a summer afternoon getting away from New York's humidity . Summing up : An exotic feast for the eyes , all style but not too much content . Still , it's worth seeing , with some eye-popping cinematography and special effects .
Early Claude Rains in imperfect tale of a charlatan . . .	There are plenty of rough edges throughout this early CLAUDE RAINS film ( released by Gainsborough ) , before his career went into high gear at Warner Bros . during the ' 30s and ' 40s . And yet , the story of a man who starts out as a charlatan and then really begins to see tragic events unfold , does hold the interest . The story moves rather briskly but there's a low-budget look to the proceedings that gives it the flavor of a second feature . The performances are a bit over the top ( in melodramatic ' 30s style ) , with Rains obviously enjoying his central role as a man who finds he really can predict disasters when a certain woman ( JANE BAXTER ) is nearby . FAY WRAY is appealing and pretty ( as a brunette ) in the role of Rains ' wife who is a partner in his act and JANE BAXTER does well as the other woman . Summing up : Implausible and a little creaky in the telling , it's an old-fashioned but better than the average programmer thanks to the interest sustained by Rains ' performance .
Clever , crafty C . I . A . drama , sometimes a bit too convoluted for comfort . . .	It starts out on a typically rainy day in New York with a rather pleasant looking fellow ( ROBERT REDFORD ) getting off his motorcycle and entering what looks like a fashionable brownstone apartment house in the heart of Manhattan . It soon becomes evident that this is going to be no simple story of espionage which , by the way , is adapted from an even more complex novel by James Grady called SIX DAYS OF THE CONDOR . Apparently , they cut down on the days to avoid some of the book's clutter but they haven't trimmed it enough to avoid the complexities that always abound in a story about spies , counter-spies , reality vs . unreality , daring missions , spectacular fight scenes , and surprise twists . It's all very cleverly written and acted by a first-rate cast , but in the end you're somewhat exhausted after following the deceptions of an almost too clever spy story . ROBERT REDFORD as the casually dressed C . I . A . agent , FAYE DUNAWAY as a woman who inadvertently becomes romantically involved with him , and sinister characterizations from CLIFF ROBERTSON , MAX VON SYDOW and JOHN HOUSEMAN are all highly effective in maintaining a good amount of taut suspense . If espionage tales are your thing , this one is so well directed by Sydney Pollack and elegantly photographed in splendid color , that you'll no doubt warm up to it before the first five minutes have passed - - although there are weaknesses . For example , if you examine the plot closely , there's plenty of nitpicking to do . Redford plays a mousy reader of books but turns into an action hero like James Bond on a moment's notice when he has to face a murderous mailman . Dunaway's quiet , unassuming character turns into a bold-faced woman able to stare down a CIA operative and issue what sounds like a warning threat without blinking an eye . Not to mention the " why " of the killings at the American Literary Museum or why Max Von Sydow doesn't choose to kill Redford in the final encounter when he tried so hard at the beginning . Just a change of mind ? ? ? No explanation is even attempted except that Von Sydow has perhaps come to admire Redford's ingenuity .
Two great western stars in their last round-up together . . .	RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY proves that the Old West was a dangerous place for anyone willing to transport gold from a mining town to a bank with a couple of double-crossing cronies as companions and a runaway girl to protect . JOEL McCREA and RANDOLPH SCOTT are the willing participants , a lawman and his corrupt pal , and MARIETTE HARTLEY is the girl who wants to escape the clutches of a cruel father and marry Billy Hammond ( JAMES DRURY ) . She joins Scott and McCrea but doesn't realize what she's in for when she meets up with her ornery fiancé and his psychotic brothers , one of whom is played by WARREN OATES . She also has to contend with the advances of Scott's young pal , RON STARR , who doesn't want to see her get mixed up with Drury and his brothers . The plot stays focused on these characters , moves slowly and is photographed with finesse by Lucien Ballard who filmed it in CinemaScope and Metrocolor in some gorgeous natural settings . It's a character-driven tale that has a moral compass but never becomes too preachy in the telling . First-rate performances by McCrea and Scott hold the film together with the others being competent enough to stand inspection . The big mystery to me is : What happened to Ron Starr ? He was certainly adequate enough and seemed to grow in the role as the film progressed , looking somewhat like a young Glenn Campbell . His bio at IMDb is very incomplete , so there's no telling what actually happened to him . Summing up : Sturdy western with downbeat ending is interesting all the way through .
Shirley in top form . . . talented tot with abundant charm . . .	CURLY TOP is indebted to SHIRLEY TEMPLE for whatever charm it has as a vehicle for the talented tot - - and she gets to strut her stuff often enough to keep an audience happy . It's the kind of Temple film where you start getting restless when the spotlight goes to the romantic leads ( John Boles and Rochelle Hudson ) , bland and poorly scripted as the leads usually are in a Temple film . But with the spotlight on Temple - - as when Shirley does her tap dancing atop a white piano or sings " Animal Crackers in my Soup " with cheerful confidence and a bit of mugging at an orphanage , you can see why she was America's box-office sweetheart during a four-year period . Clearly ranks among the best early Temple vehicles with all of her charisma and dimpled charm on full display . Nice to see her sharing some good scenes with Arthur Treacher .
Olivia de Havilland's 1946 Oscar Well Deserved	After winning her two-year court battle with Warner Bros . , OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND became a free-lancer and got her big chance when Paramount offered her TO EACH HIS OWN , a script that had already been turned down by Ingrid Bergman and Ginger Rogers . Everyone shines in this movie , from the leads ( OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND and JOHN LUND ) to the smallest bit players . De Havilland was perfect as Jody Norris , realistically portraying a young girl of seventeen and then various stages of maturity , ending as a brusque , middle-aged business woman in war-torn London of 1944 . Her range as an actress is fully demonstrated and she does a remarkable job of playing the heroine at various stages of development . John Lund is excellent too in a dual role ( her lover and later her grown son ) , Bill Goodwin as a good-hearted pal , Philip Terry as another suitor who still loves her after marrying her friend ( Mary Anderson ) . Anderson never had a better role than she does as the jealous , neurotic wife unwilling to let Jody have her own child back . An intelligent script , detailed period direction by Mitch Leisen , fine background score by Victor Young and memorable moments from every player in the large cast . This is one Madame X kind of story that still holds up today . Probably the best soap-opera of the ' 40s , played to the hilt by a wonderful cast . I would be remiss if I didn't mention Roland Culver as Lord Desham . Brilliant performance . And on top of all the drama , there's a lot of humor and touches of real Americana , especially in the early scenes depicting Jody's small-town life . Summing up : This was a huge box-office hit in the summer of ' 46 and re-ignited Olivia's career after a three year absence from the screen .
Tracy steps into a sun-baked desert town bristling with secrets and hateful prejudice . . .	BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK is a taut and terrific melodrama of a town silenced by a mean-spirited bully ( ROBERT RYAN ) and too afraid to be civil to a man who comes to the hot-baked desert town to deliver a posthumous medal to a Japanese farmer . SPENCER TRACY is the man on a mission and he doesn't know what he's in for until he steps off that train and has to deal with some mighty cantankerous citizens , full of hatred , fear and prejudice . The intricate suspense and menace of the tale is apparent from the start . You'll never see a more convincing pair of villains than ERNEST BOGNINE and LEE MARVIN , both of whom are determined to chase Tracy out of town . ANNE FRANCIS has little to do as the only female in the cast , but does it well , and JOHN ERICSON is convincing as her boyfriend . DEAN JAGGER adds his own brand of acting to the role of a weak-willed sheriff . The final confrontation between Tracy and Borgnine wraps up the tale in a satisfying conclusion . John Sturges ' direction is right on mark , keeping the tale down to a trim 81 minutes , during which time there is no let-up in suspense . Summing up : One of Tracy's best latter day roles in a modern day morality tale .
Zany fun , pure old-fashioned escapism with a string of gags for good measure . . .	This is a typical ROAD movie with the boys chasing Lamour as the audience waits to see who Dotty will wind up with . The script is pure escapist , light-hearted stuff and everyone seems to enjoy the tongue in cheek style of all the gags . Bing is his usual affable self , tossing off a few songs in the Crosby manner - - the best of which is " Moonlight Becomes You " . Dorothy Lamour is at her peak of lush beauty as the princess and manages to keep a straight face while the boys cut capers . Bob Hope shines in a part totally suited to his comic skills with one-liners and double takes that keep the high spirits flowing . If you're a fan of ROAD movies , you'll definitely enjoy this one - - although my own personal favorite is still ROAD TO UTOPIA .
British version of Shaw play is concise and terrific . . .	There can be no doubt that LESLIE HOWARD was the perfect actor to play Henry Higgins in Shaw's PYGMALION - - although when watching it one can't help hearing Rex Harrison behind some of the lines , so ingrained is the Harrison performance on this particular role . But Howard shows the flair for comedy that he demonstrated in other films of the ' 30s , most notably a screwball comedy with Bette Davis and Olivia de Havilland called " It's Love I'm After " in which Howard and Eric Blore stole the film with their riotous performances . Here he excels as Higgins and with a wonderful Eliza in the form of WENDY HILLER , the two of them make you forget there ever was a musical version - - well , almost . Every time they mention " the rain in Spain " or other Shaw phrases that were turned into musical phrases , you can envision the musical behind the play . SCOTT SUNDERLAND is a delightfully aristocratic Col . Pickering and WILFRID LAWSON is impressive as Alfred Doolittle , each making the role their own in a way that rivals the broader playing of the roles in the musical version directed by George Cukor . What's nice about this MY FAIR LADY is that it isn't overstuffed to the point where it takes more than two hours to tell the tale . It's performed in a brisk one hour and thirty-six minutes without any dull spots . WENDY HILLER is remarkable as Eliza , making the transformation from ignorant Cockney flower girl to a glittering lady with the right amount of poise and charm . She isn't as glamorized as Audrey Hepburn for the ball scene , but still manages to convey the elegance that classifies her as a princess to the elite ladies and gentlemen at the ballroom . If you look closely , you can spot a youthful LEO GENN as the prince who dances with Eliza while the onlookers stare . He hasn't a line of dialog . Well done , smoothly directed by Anthony Asquith , it's a pleasure to watch .
The first time was the charm . . .	Somewhere along the way , the makers of SPIDER-MAN 2 couldn't decide whether they were making an all-out action flick or a soft-core soap opera with the accent on Spidey's melancholy love affair with Mary Jane . The balance between action , humor and love story has been so skewered by what seems like the intrusion of action scenes that this one doesn't work as well as the first . Apparently , the makers wanted to humanize Tobey's character as much as possible . None of the fault lies in the performances . Tobey Maguire is genuinely effective in making us see Spider-Man's humanity . In fact , he's so good that if this guy ever gets a really deep character role to play , he's going to win some big prizes ( aside from financial ones ) . He's a very sensitive actor , as revealed in THE CIDER HOUSE RULES . Kirsten Dunst does her usual nice job as Mary Jane but there's a little too much of her long pauses between dialog to gaze intimately at Spidey . James Franco is fine as Harry Osborn who may in time become Spider-Man's next opponent if the ending of this one gives us a clue . But acting honors this time really go to Rosemary Harris , so warm and human as Aunt May , and J . K . Simmons as the harried headline-chasing editor of New York's most tabloid newspaper . Cliff Robertson does nicely as Uncle Ben Parker . Naturally , all of the special effects are mind boggling and the villain of the piece ( Doc Ock ) with his octopus-like mechanical arms is given plenty of action once his character is established . But personally , I preferred William Dafoe's villainy much more than Albert Molina's attempt to be Doc Ock . Not liking the villain of the piece is enough to make me give the first Spidey film a higher rating . Elfman's musical score is excellent . Most impressive stunt in the whole film is the way Spidey stops a runaway train from a disastrous fate .
Martin Balsam shines as wax museum worker in episode directed by John Brahm . . .	John Brahm ( director of feature film classics THE LODGER and HANGOVER SQUARE ) , directed this " Twilight Zone " episode starring MARTIN BALSAM , giving it the sort of Gothic touches he gave his full-length feature films . This one is about a wax museum curator who delights in taking the customers on a tour of " Murder's Row " , including lifelike wax figures of infamous criminals like Jack the Ripper . Balsam is so obsessed with these figures that he's soon a good candidate for " the twilight zone " himself . When told that the museum will have to be demolished to make way for a supermarket , Balsam sees his thirty-year career as a curator coming to an end . The owner explains that " People aren't interested in wax figures any more " when Balsam suggests opening another museum . He shows Balsam the waning cash receipts , but Balsam is obsessed with preserving the five wax figures of murderers in his basement . What happens next , makes for a very intriguing episode of " The Twilight Zone " called THE NEW EXHIBIT under the expert guidance of John Brahm . Balsam is excellent as the caretaker who talks to the figures as though they were real . The story takes a sharp turn into high suspense when his wife enters the cellar with every intention of turning off the air-conditioner that keeps the figures from melting . The suspense is even further heightened when her brother becomes suspicious of her eventual disappearance as well as when the museum owner arrives with the news that the figures have been sold to another museum , but has to take their measurements first . What happens can only be described as something that can only occur in " The Twilight Zone " . Well done , it's a special treat for fright fans .
Not the director's cut - - but still a powerful film with fine performances . . .	The original cut of THE RED BADGE OF COURAGE has never been seen - - and probably does not exist - - but this is the truncated version of the John Huston film and it's still powerful stuff . It's an examination of courage among men under intense fire - - such as the infantry men in the Civil War , about whom writer Stephen Crane wrote with almost poetical finesse . So that some of Crane's writing is maintained on screen , we get a narration by James Whitmore that succeeds in helping us understand the central character ( AUDIE MURPHY ) and his motivations . Judging from photographs of the Civil War , the film has a gritty , realistic look as it goes from battle to battle with a group of men we get to know and recognize as vulnerable human beings caught in the tragedy of impossible battle situations . AUDIE MURPHY is not noted for being an actor capable of deep characterization , but he's been guided by Huston to give a very effective , deeply felt performance , no doubt helped by the fact that he's been in the midst of battle before ( he's a real life war hero ) , and must know the inner conflicts that face any man in battle . The supporting cast of actors are fine , especially BILL MAULDIN as Audie's friend , both of them confessing moments of cowardice during battle fatigue and then able to go on with their mission . But the real credit has to go to John Huston for writing and directing a film that he was never especially proud of , but which is stunningly photographed and directed with great skill .
Richly imaginative , darker and scarier than most of the other Potter films . . .	DANIEL RADCLIFFE and his company of wizards are having the scariest ride of all in this dark , dangerous and yet fun-filled thriller with absolutely stupefying special effects and some slam bang cinematography that is nothing short of dazzling . Readers of the novel may quip at all the material that couldn't be included , but the movie is extremely well-paced with a fair amount of humor to liven up even the scariest moments . The story is a lot less complex to follow than some of the others and lets you concentrate on the rich assortment of characters with almost Dickensian names . MIRANDA RICHARDSON does a nifty job as an overly exuberant journalist who exaggerates her tabloid material ( by the name of Rita Skeeter ) , and Maggie Smith , Alan Rickman , Rupert Grint and Emma Watson do their usual superb jobs in their by now familiar roles . RALPH FIENNES does a chilling job as Voldemort for the final maze sequence which makes it questionable whether parents should let the very young watch this without fair warning . He's the meanest , darkest villain yet in all these Potter stories and does a brilliant job of being villainous . For Potter fans , this should come as a welcome chapter in this series , extremely well directed and acted thanks to a superb cast and crew . Patrick Doyle's music is a good background score without being too obtrusive .
Dark exploration of man's inhumanity to man . . .	Despite all the realism depicted in THE GREY ZONE amid the actual day to day operations of a Nazi prison camp , there's a certain stage quality in the dialog that serves as a reminder that you're watching the screen version of a stage play and not what should seem more like a true life documentary . That's the fault of the script taken from David Mamet's play and other eye-witness sources - - but the acting is excellent . And yet , it does manage to convey just how those prison camps used other prisoners to operate the gas chambers , to carry out the deed with false promises - - " Just be sure to remember where you hook the clothes so you can pick up your belongings when you leave " - - and the backbreaking jobs of loading trucks with dead bodies and depositing them on chutes that go directly into a blazing furnace . Amid all this , various stories are entwined involving the petty quarrels among the men assigned to these tasks so they could prolong their own lives for at least four months of assured survival . The story involving a girl who does not die during the twenty-minute gassing and is then revived and how the men argue over how to protect her from further harm , is intense and touching in that it shows the humanity that is still in their souls . Her story and how it ends is one of the film's most memorable and touching elements . This is more of an in depth look at " the final solution " than any other recent films dealing with the extermination of Jews has ever been , with the exception of SCHINDLER'S LIST and THE PIANIST in which the accent was more on the triumph of the human spirit and a much broader view of the war itself in epic mode . This is a darker , intimate look at the actual operation of the camps as experienced by a handful of prisoners - - the brutality , the torture , and raises the question : how far would you go to survive ? It also shows how not all the Jews were as passive about their fate as some have claimed , often opposing the Nazi officers and paying for it with their lives . In the hands of a greater director , it might have been an even more impressive film than it is , so that I'm unable to place it in the same class with the two films mentioned above . The cast is uniformly good , but HARVEY KEITEL is outstanding as an SS Commander keeping strict tabs on the camp's hard-working doctor . In its own way , it's just as important . Young students of history would be well advised to view this one for a better understanding of how " the final solution " was supposed to occur and the methods used to carry out an enormous project known as " the holocaust " .
Unflinching look at brutal penal colony . . . gripping but exhausting . . .	Brutal treatment in a penal colony has been explored on the screen before in such earlier films as I WAS A FUGITIVE FROM A CHAIN GANG , but never has there been a more graphic expose of the sort of conditions prisoners faced under the worst sort of environment . At times the film is extremely harrowing to watch , and at other times the story tends to drag a little . But there can be no doubt that STEVE McQUEEN and DUSTIN Hoffman create believable and sympathetic ( yet quirky ) characterizations and do some of the finest acting of their careers . Their roles are physically demanding and always played with total conviction . Not for the squeamish , but extremely well acted by the entire cast , great location photography and a nice background score by Jerry Goldsmith . The first half of the story is much more compelling than what happens in the final years and the last half-hour of the film is a bit sluggish in pacing . But overall , a memorable escape film that ranks with the best of other escape stories . My first viewing of the film years ago made an indelible impression on me , but I must confess that later viewings convinced me that it is not exactly flawless in that the pacing is sometimes much too slow and the ending is somewhat unsatisfying .
Delightful comedy from B'way stage hit . . . Russell at her best . . .	ROSALIND RUSSELL was always at her best in comedies and here she had a role that got her an Oscar nomination for Best Actress in 1942 - - and it's easy to see why . She's downright hilarious as the gal from Ohio with writing ambitions and a pretty blonde sister ( JANET BLAIR ) with a penchant for attracting men and trouble . All the wacky situations stem from their Greenwich Village basement apartment which seems to have more visitors than Grand Central Station . It's all exaggerated fluff , but it works , thanks to a fine cast and sterling performances . RICHARD QUINE and GORDON JONES do repeats of their Broadway roles , and DONALD MacBRIDE as a policeman who wants quiet on his route is hilarious . JUNE HAVOC makes a brief appearance as a medium who used to live in the girls ' apartment . GEORGE TOBIAS , as the opportunistic landlord with the Greek accent , is at his funniest in a colorful supporting role . My favorite moment is the conga sequence with Russell and Blair trying to get rid of sailors who don't speak a word of English , creating a disturbance that lands Blair in jail . Janet Blair is pleasant as the blonde bombshell but it's Russell who milks the most out of her role and gets all the laughs . She's terrific . BRIAN AHERNE does what he can with the role of the talkative editor , but it's not much of a part . Still , he adds a certain debonair charm to the role . Summing up : Notable chiefly as a terrific vehicle for Russell's unique brand of comic talent .
Dandy espionage during wartime . . . scales the heights . . .	This well-titled thriller indeed goes WHERE EAGLES DARE and then some . When men aren't climbing mountain peaks , they're fighting atop cable cars and doing so many other stunts on a rescue mission that it becomes the ultimate in action / spy drama of the cleverest kind . And why not ? It's based on Alistair McLean's thrilling novel and he authored the screenplay , turning his fast-moving novel into a thrill ride despite a running time of 158 minutes . At the center of the action are RICHARD BURTON and CLINT EASTWOOD and their mission is to rescue an American General from the clutches of the Nazis before he can reveal the secret plans for a D-Day invasion . He's being held in a German castle high in the mountains so the mission starts out as a built-in obstacle course . Naturally , a lot of daring and derring-do are needed to accomplish the task once the men arrive at the castle . It's a beautifully mounted production with no expense spared to turn this into a full-fledged winner , aided immeasurably by Ron Goodwin's background score and some exceptional photography in vivid color . Summing up : an action fan's dream .
A rolllercoaster thrill ride from beginning to end . . . the franchise is alive and kicking . . .	Once again BRUCE WILLIS in the guise of John McClane saves the world from professional hackers out to disrupt the U . S . government and shut down the financial structure completely - - an act of revenge by a former insider ( TIMOTHY OLYPHANT ) whose warnings went unheeded by those in charge . And the action is practically non-stop , with one big stunt sequence after another . Midway through the film I was wondering how they would top the last big explosion , but the screenwriter never ran out of even more dangerous stunts to come . This has got to be one of the most physically demanding roles Willis ( and his stuntman ) ever played . Amid all the tension there's a nice sense of humor going on between Willis and his young Hacker friend ( JUSTIN LONG ) , with the banter never missing a clever exchange of lines as they join forces to fight the villain out to destroy America . At the end , of course , there's plenty of guts and glory for both of them who manage to survive all the attempts to destroy them at terrific odds . While preposterous , the screenplay does make you think twice about what might happen if our dependence on computers went totally haywire . It's this aspect of the story that gives it that much needed adrenalin rush for today's movie fans . Summing up : The franchise is alive and kicking with some astonishing action stunts and some really better than average work from Willis and his sidekick Long . A welcome summer blockbuster .
One that I missed along the way . . . at least it's an offbeat A & C yarn . . .	There are some genuinely amusing moments throughout THE TIME OF THEIR LIVES and the idea of setting an A & C comedy in the Restoration period is an unusual one , to put it mildly . But not all of it is as spontaneously funny as you might wish it to be , although fans of the duo will probably not complain . A decided asset is a good cast , including MARJORIE REYNOLDS as Lou's ghost-mate intent on finding a missing letter from George Washington that will prove that she and LOU COSTELLO are not traitors . That's the whole premise of the story in a nutshell - - and the cast does what it can with the one-liners to keep things moving . BINNIE BARNES has some sharp lines that she delivers with style and GALE SONDERGAARD excels as a spooky housekeeper . JESS BARKER is wasted in a minor role and ANN GILLIS tends to overact as Lou's temperamental sweetheart but within the framework of an over-the-top comedy , it doesn't matter much . Fans of the team will enjoy the change of setting and there are enough sight gags based on Lou's invisibility gimmick that will keep his fans entertained . BUD ABBOT does some more serious emoting than usual and does surprisingly well without slapping Costello around , for a change . Summing up : An unusual A & C comedy that their fans should enjoy - - including some surprisingly good special effects .
Famous criminal pair make their crimes seem like a joyride . . .	Aside from being a vivid recreation of the 1930s Depression era , this story of the world's most famous bank robbers is funny , sad , melodramatic , and ultimately tragic , in madcap fashion with lots of style and then some . No wonder it's so highly regarded as the cream of the crop when it comes to crime capers . I'm not a WARREN BEATTY fan , but this is the film that put Beatty and FAYE DUNAWAY on the map , and deservedly so . They are perfect for each other , complementing each other with great style and completely immersing themselves in the characters of Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow . " We rob banks , " Beatty pridefully admits when asked his vocation . It's a wild joyride and along for the ride are GENE HACKMAN , MICHAEL J . POLLARD and ESTELLE PARSONS ( Oscar-winner Best Supporting Actress ) and making his screen debut , GENE WILDER in a cameo role . Under Arthur Penn's direction , it still remains one of the most satisfying crime escapades ever made , notable for the controversy it aroused over that brutal ending to a life of crime . All the technical elements are perfect , making it one of the best films of its kind .
Another good collaboration of Leisen and Brackett . . .	Charles Brackett and Mitchell Leisen collaborated on a few successful films , including the dramatic TO EACH HIS OWN ( ' 46 ) , but here the accent is on a rollicking romantic comedy starring GENE TIERNEY , JOHN LUND , THELMA RITTER and MIRIAM HOPKINS . It's a spin on the mistaken identity theme , with Ritter inadvertently thought to be a much needed maid when she shows up at Gene Tierney's house at an opportune moment with the lady in distress for a good cook . Thelma assumes the identity of the hired help while socialite Tierney is unaware that she's really the mother of John Lund , her new hubby . Even more complications ensue when Tierney's snobbish mother ( MIRIAM HOPKINS ) turns up , intending to show her disapproval of Tierney's impulsive decision to marry Lund . Lund has no affection for Hopkins . " She fills every room with poison gas , " he remarks to his colleagues at work . POSSIBLE SPOILERS HERE But it's his own snobbish attitude in not wanting to tell Tierney his mother's identity that gets him into hot water with Gene when she finds out the truth about their cook . She puts on the big freeze and tells him she's going to take up residence in Mexico - - until things are straightened up in the last ten minutes with a rather contrived ending that has Tierney and Lund suddenly reunited while Ritter unexpectedly finds a mate of her own . THELMA RITTER was Oscar-nominated as the fast talking mother-in-law who happens to be a gourmet cook - - one of six nominations but no wins . Summing up : Well worthwhile , with all of the principal players getting a chance to show a nice flair for comedy .
Hitchcock pre-Hollywood is still Hitchcock . . .	One of the oddest things about THE LADY VANISHES is that Hitch doesn't make his usual trademark appearance until one of the last scenes at a train station . Once he got to make Hollywood films , he made sure he appeared early on so that audiences wouldn't be on the lookout for him and be distracted from the story . This is a very British entry from ' 38 with a very lovely MARGARET LOCKWOOD , a brunette beauty who could act , and MICHAEL REDGRAVE ( dad of Vanessa and Lynn ) , then an up and coming young star himself . They share most of the screen time as strangers who meet quite by accident but spend the rest of the story trying to solve the disappearance of an elderly lady , Miss Froy , ( DAME MAY Witty ) on a train in some fictional European country . That's the gimmick for the plot which unravels in a leisurely fashion at the start but soon gets into gear with the disappearance of the old gal and the insistence by other passengers that she was a figment of Lockwood's imagination . It's typical Hitchcock material , another one of his spy capers sprinkled with some amusing supporting characters and moments of sly humor along with the gradual building of suspense . PAUL LUKAS is excellent as a doctor aboard the train who talks about the arrival of one of his patients and seems to be involved somehow in the strange disappearance of Miss Froy . The resolution is a bit far-fetched and there are occasional lapses in credibility along the way when you stop to think about how it all started , but if you're willing to go along for the ride it makes for good entertainment for any mystery buff who likes the Hitchcock style . Summing up : One of the better Hitchcock entries from his early English period . Trivia note : Sound on the TCM print was not the best , so it's advisable to use the caption feature on your TV remote ( if it has one ) to catch some of the British phrases and words unfamiliar to American ears . Otherwise , you'll miss a lot of the dialog .
Enjoyed it much more than " Shakespeare in Love " . . .	17th Century period films done by the British are always so impeccably cast and acted that you're taken back to that time when actors played all the roles ( including the female leads ) and women were forbidden to trod the boards . All this changed when King Charles II ( RUPERT EVERETT in too brief a role ) decided it was time for reformation . At least , that's the way it goes in STAGE BEAUTY starring CLAIRE DANES as the lovely woman determined to become an actress and BILLY CRUDUP as the male actor playing women's roles who becomes jealous of the woman who happens to be his dresser . Sumptuously costumed and with authentic looking interiors and exteriors , it's played in the grand manner by a cast of excellent players , including TOM WILKINSON , JAMES FOX , BEN CHAPLIN and HUGH BONNEVILLE , all of whom nail their roles beautifully . But it's BILLY CRUDUP who has to carry much of the film with his impassioned performance as the young man who must adjust to playing a man's role when he finally plays Othello to Danes ' Desdemona and the two of them triumph in the tragedy when they capture the attention of the audience with an ultra-realistic scene where Desdemona gets brutal treatment from the Moor . Frankly , I enjoyed this much more than the similarly themed Shakespeare IN LOVE with the dismal playing of GWYNETH PALTROW masquerading as a boy . This should be of special interest to anyone with a background in theater who wants to see how theatrical shows were managed and performed in " ye olde days " . Summing up : Highly entertaining with an ensemble cast at their peak .
" Thank you very much " Albert Finney and company . . .	Purists won't be too happy with whatever omissions were made in the Dickens tale to include some harmless songs by Leslie Bricusse , but ALBERT FINNEY ( in age make-up ) hams it up with a sense of humor as Scrooge - - and with a cast including EDITH EVANS , KENNETH MORE and ALEC GUINNESS ( as Marley's Ghost ) , you can't go too far wrong . The atmosphere is good , the color cinematography captures merry old England in all its Victorian splendor , and the songs are brisk and somewhat charming in all their simplicity . Especially winning are " Thank You Very Much " and " I Love Life " ( sung by an exuberant Finney after his reformation ) . This one is certain to please the kids who want to see another version of the timeless tale of redemption on Christmas Day . Summing up : Harmless fun for all is sure to put some glow into your Christmas .
Steve McQueen remains the focal point in ambitious , sometimes rambling film . . .	STEVE McQUEEN makes a completely believable machinist's mate aboard a U . S . Navy gunboat who finds himself enmeshed in the politics of unrest that existed in 1926 China during the period of the Boxer Rebellion . It's probably one of the finest roles of his career - - honest , vexating , and completely true to the emotions of his character whose only real concern is taking care of his engines . There are plenty of other good performances . RICHARD CRENNA is the Captain , uncertain of just how the U . S . / Chinese friction should be solved , and CANDACE BERGEN is lovely as a missionary who has a tender romance with McQueen . The exotic locales ( it was filmed mostly in Taiwan ) , the lush background score by Jerry Goldsmith , and the confrontation between the U . S . Navy and the Chinese authorities which supplies the necessary suspense before an action-filled climax , all serve to make THE SAND PEBBLES a fascinating look at a period in history that is seldom explored . And , of course , it raises questions as to our role in imperialism and our interaction with the culture of foreign countries that make the film relevant today . It's a long film , rather uneven in places , but directed with rare sensitivity by Robert Wise and richly detailed period atmosphere .
Tracy meets my favorite " gruesome " horror star . . .	The last of the RKO series starring RALPH BYRD , it has him hunting down Gruesome ( BORIS KARLOFF ) after a bank robbery in which a gas freezes the bank's customers and clerks in mid-position while the robbery takes place . It's a novel idea and nicely staged , as ANNE GWYNNE ( who plays Tess Trueheart ) enters an enclosed telephone booth and sees the action take place while she eludes the gas herself . Too bad the rest of the story doesn't match this early scene for a hint of originality . It's a rather pedestrian story that has KARLOFF putting down anyone that gets in his way . If you pay attention , you can catch an early glimpse of LEX BARKER , soon to be the studio's Tarzan , playing an ambulance driver who is on to Karloff and gets bopped on the head while Karloff and his pals make a quick getaway . It's cast with the usual assortment of unusual characters , but doesn't quite live up to its promise despite the presence of BORIS KARLOFF . Byrd at least gets a little more to do than usual , but the final confrontation could have been stronger .
MGM's lavish look at the French Revolution . . . a Shearer triumph . . .	MGM's lavishly budgeted look at the French Revolution during the reign of King Louis and his famously selfish MARIE ANTOINETTE spares no expense in detailing the grim background of court conspiracies and the people's unrest that led to their downfall . Too bad none of this eye-popping splendor wasn't captured in Technicolor , as originally planned - - but with a budget well over 1 . 5 million it was decided to film it in glorious B & W . No matter , it's still a spectacle for sore eyes . There can be no doubt about NORMA SHEARER's triumph in the title role nor is any of the acting in the large cast below standard . ROBERT MORLEY as the weak and indecisive Louis is immensely touching and effective as he realizes the gravity of their predicament . JOHN BARRYMORE is fine and Joseph SCHILDKRAUT is wonderful as an aristocratic fop . TYRONE POWER lends his romantic presence to a role that requires little more than his good looks . He and Shearer make a physically appealing romantic team . It's interesting that Irving Thalberg died before production began on the film . One wonders whether his influence on it might have made it an even stronger production . There are definite lulls in the telling but it builds dramatically to all of the final scenes . It's the kind of film that leads one to read more about the actual events and that's always a good thing . Summing up : Sumptuously produced , well acted and well directed - - what more could you want for an interesting glimpse of a life of royalty among a time of social upheaval ? Shearer's triumphant return to the screen after a two-hear absence .
Football vs . academics . . . excellent performances by Fonda , de Havilland and Carson . . .	Debate over whether a professor should be allowed to read a controversial letter to his class forms the subject for this spirited football vs . academics comedy originally a stage play by Elliot Nugent and James Thurber . The screen version moves briskly but it's all played at a " full steam ahead " kind of tempo popular at Warner Bros . Henry Fonda is excellent as the mild-mannered professor resentful of his wife's ex-boyfriend ( a football jock ) and Olivia de Havilland is radiant as his supportive wife . Jack Carson is ideally cast as the ex-football player still in love with Fonda's wife and his bombastic approach to comedy serves him well in this role . Joan Leslie is a little too coy as de Havilland's sister ( a role played on the stage by Gene Tierney ) . It passes the time but is little more than a mildly entertaining comedy with too many dull stretches to make it truly satisfying . Fonda and de Havilland later played husband and wife again on Broadway in ' A Gift of Time ' ( 1962 ) . Elliot Nugent's direction is brisk but it still seems rather stagebound . Nugent himself played the role of the professor on Broadway .
Improbable but amusing comedy gets a lift from Rogers , Milland and Lynn . . .	A saucy comedy about a woman not having enough money to leave New York City to return to the mid-west by train , is made even more enjoyable because the leads are played by GINGER ROGERS , RAY MILLAND and DIANA LYNN , all of whom have the benefit of a very good script written by Charles Brackett and Billy Wilder and directed by Wilder . Rogers , of course , in real life would hardly be able to pass herself off as a twelve year-old unless someone had extra bad eyesight , but we have to accept that premise in order to enjoy the story . She tries hard , but the expert photography reveals her to be much older ( and shapelier ) than any mere twelve year-old child . However , it does give her the opportunity to enact a comic impersonation of a bratty and willful girl who finds herself being chased by all the young wolves at the military academy run by Major Kirby ( RAY MILLAND ) . DIANA LYNN is the only sensible one in the cast , aware from the start that Ginger is impersonating Su-Su Applegate and handing her the riot act unless she agrees to cooperate with Diana's scheme to dissuade sister RITA JOHNSON from entrapping Milland in marriage . Ginger is only too glad to cooperate and the scenes between the sassy teen-aged Lynn and the adult Rogers are among the funniest . Milland shows a distinct flair for romantic comedy - - particularly in the scene where he's asked by Su-Su whether he finds her pretty . Looking at her with one eye shut , he exclaims : " Su-Su , you're a knockout ! " And it's precisely this edge to the humor that makes the story a bit uncomfortable in spots , with Milland seeming to leer at her with a Lolita complex . ROBERT BENCHLEY figures prominently in the opening scene set in Manhattan where he summons Rogers for a scalp treatment with an ulterior purpose in mind . " Why don't you slip into a dry martini ? " was one of his better quips before Rogers gives him " the treatment " . Funny , witty and not completely believable - - but nevertheless a pleasure to watch because the performances are so enjoyable .
Spellbinding . . . a truly fascinating ghost story . . .	It's a pleasure to come across a truly great horror story , a ghostly tale involving a group of Spanish boys orphaned during the Spanish Civil War in the late ' 30s at a remote outpost where they are sheltered by two caretakers and a handyman . The handyman is Jacinto ( played brilliantly by EDUARDO NORIEGA ) who is intent on keeping the boys away from a certain area kept under lock and key . One of the boys starts seeing brief visions of a small boy and hears him say " Many will die " . Gradually , we learn the story behind the ghostly hauntings and why Jacinto is tormented by a secret he keeps in the past . There are so many layers to the story that it's impossible to describe the detailed plot without giving too much away . All of it is stylishly directed , beautifully photographed , with great sets and extremely good horror make-up when it comes to the blood and gore involved . There's poetic justice in the finely crafted ending and the viewer can get full satisfaction in the way the story ends . Well worth viewing . Deserves much more attention ( and awards ) than it has received . EDUARDO NORIEGA certainly has the potential to be a huge international star - - looks and charisma to spare , as well as the intense acting abilities of a young Anthony Quinn .
Preparation for " Pinocchio " evident in underwater scenes . . .	Disney was busy trying to lift the art of animation to new heights by having his artists do an " under the sea " type of thing , long before anyone would be seeing films like PINOCCHIO or THE LITTLE MERMAID . MERBABIES is thin on plot but the art work is gorgeous and the visual elements are what make it worth watching . A dazzling array of sea creatures are having a circus-like parade that includes a number of sight gags with the creatures taking on the looks of elephants , donkeys , horses and other animals . Finally , just when the atmosphere couldn't be any cheerier , everyone scatters at the approach of a hard breathing whale ( as in PINOCCHIO ) . The merbabies ride to the surface surrounded by a sea of bubbles and emerge atop the water , safe from the monstrous whale . Easy to see that Disney was doing experimental procedures for PINOCCHIO before its release two years later . Visually stunning , if a bit too cute for some tastes . All of the art work is first rate and much more impressive than in the earlier Disney shorts from ' 33 and onward .
Robert Wise directs a study in corruption , greed and murder . . .	There are a number of surprises in BORN TO KILL , but the biggest one for me was seeing that the director of this film noir masterpiece was Robert Wise , who gave the world THE SOUND OF MUSIC . I never suspected he was this versatile , although he did do several other " creepy " stories earlier in his career . Most of the other surprises relate to the twisted elements in the plot . Thanks to a superb cast , the script never lets anyone down and is played to the hilt by the leads , LAWRENCE TIERNEY ( even though he only has two expressions ) and CLAIRE TREVOR , in full Barbara Stanwyck mode . PHILIP TERRY is Trevor's stable fiancé who finally realizes that she's a bit too complex for him to handle , in a role much like the one he had in THE LOST WEEKEND where he's Ray Milland's steady and sincere brother . AUDREY LONG is Trevor's wealthy sister who is attracted immediately to Tierney , who is attracted immediately to her wealth . It's the perfect set-up for a story of corruption , greed and murder among an upper crust society invaded by the likes of Tierney and his friend , ELISHA COOK , JR . , who has a more substantial role than usual as Tierney's loyal henchman . Among other surprises : ESTHER HOWARD as a boozing old lady who knows too much about the murder of a young woman , in a fine performance that almost steals the show . Amusing to see young TOMMY NOONAN as a bellhop playing cards with her , unbilled in a brief scene . WALTER SLEZAK fails to do much with the role of a corrupt detective with his eye on making a few bucks , surprisingly colorless in what might have been an interesting role . CLAIRE TREVOR walks off with the acting honors and it's easy to do since she has most of the footage for the length of the film . She's every inch the perfect woman for a femme fatale role , the kind that Barbara Stanwyck could play in her sleep . But Trevor adds a lot more dimension to the role with a very complex portrayal of a woman whose conscience is not yet dead but finds the lure of crime and passion too much to resist . She's perfect . Summing up : Well worth your time if you're in the mood for a good , tough film noir .
Graphic crime film from Tarantino . . .	It took me fifteen years to get around to viewing RESERVOIR DOGS and my interest was piqued only because I've come to admire HARVEY KEITEL as an actor . And I might as well admit , I'm not a fan of Quentin Tarantino either , although I love a good crime film . This one has to do with tough gang members talking about the aftermath of a crime , where one of them is seriously wounded and they suspect someone has infiltrated their mob and tipped off the police . " Did you kill anybody ? " " Three cops . No real people , just cops . " The brutal torture scene was a little too intense for me . But the story , about the cop inserting himself into the mob , is well handled throughout , building tension from scene to scene even though the flashbacks are not in chronological order . Standout performances from the entire cast : HARVEY KEITEL , TIM ROTH , MICHAEL MADSEN , CHRIS PENN , QUENTIN Tarantino and LAWRENCE TIERNEY ( almost unrecognizable as the Lawerence Tierney of " Dillinger " and other ' 40s crime films ) . Warning : As usual with Tarantino , the graphic violence is a bit much with lots of kicking , stabbing , blood gushing moments - - and the torture scene of a young cop is almost unwatchable in its intensity and cruelty . But all in all , a powerful film of its kind with a " crime doesn't pay " morality tacked onto the brutal ending . If only Tarantino could tell his tales with a little more finesse - - but then , he wouldn't be Tarantino , would he ? Warning : Not for children . Too intense , too graphic . Seen now , it's almost a forerunner of Martin Scorsese's THE DEPARTED with the same gangster brutality and the dialog peppered with profanity in practically every other word .
Screwball musical is a laugh riot . . . Rick Moranis screamingly funny . . .	LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS , from the Broadway musical of the same name , is a stylized , very funny comedy about a man-eating plant that thrives on eating flesh whenever it can . Rick Moranis is Seymour Krelborn , the nerd who works in a florist shop and is enamored of the shop assistant , Audrey - - so much so , that he names the plant Audrey II after her . But little does he know that the plant is really an alien from outer space out to settle a score with the world . There are a few catchy songs that are entirely in keeping with the zany plot and all of them are performed with wit and style by a talented cast . And then we come to STEVE MARTIN as " the dentist from hell " who can't wait to yank out teeth with fiendish delight and sadistic glee . His scenes are all a bit over the top , but it doesn't matter - - so is the whole concept of the film while at the same time managing to be screamingly funny . If your funnybone doesn't react to this kind of material , skip it . Otherwise , it's a treat just watching the interaction between nasal-voiced Seymour and Audrey II .
Twist upon twist makes an absorbing mystery even better . . .	Nothing's more enjoyable for me than a who-dun-it or suspense tale that keeps you guessing throughout as to how the whole thing will end . And that's precisely what happens in DEATHTRAP , based on a chilling play by Ira Levin ( " Rosemary's Baby " ) . And in it , MICHAEL CAINE and CHRISTOPHER REEVE get to do the kind of stunt that Caine and Laurence Olivier pulled off in SLEUTH - - with just about as much skill and as many puzzles as ever existed in that extraordinarily clever play . But because it's meant to scare you , surprise you , and keep you guessing as to the outcome , it's difficult to write a review about the plot . Let's just say that what we know in the beginning is all you have to know about the film for the present . MICHAEL CAINE is an insanely jealous playwright whose latest play has failed miserably . When a young aspiring writer CHRISTOPHER REEVE sends him the manuscript of his play , Caine realizes that passing it off as his own would solve all his problems and get his reputation back . From that point on , it's a matter of fun and games for the audience as Ira Levin's story unwinds , managing to trump Agatha Christie for the number of twists . Caine and Reeve play off each other brilliantly , each bringing a certain dynamic tension to the tale as well as some humorous touches that come from a script that laces drama with humor . Summing up : Well worth seeing - - but not everyone is pleased with the ending .
Ford is excellent in still timely drama based on the Evans Hunter book . . .	GLENN FORD is very effective as a straight arrow schoolteacher caught up in the discipline problems of one of the city's worst schools and striving to bring his own sense of decency to students who reject him at every turn . The story of his crusade , from Evan Hunter's best-seller , is still timely today when just such problems still exist in certain troubled areas populated by minorities . Supporting Ford are a group of talented actors portraying students , notably VIC MORROW and RAFAEL CAMPOS - - and especially , SIDNEY POITIER . All of them are convincing enough to keep the tale taut and dangerous throughout . ANNE FRANCIS gives some nice warmth to her role as Ford's anxious wife who wants him to quit his dangerous teaching job . It explores the relationship between Ford and his fellow teachers , with LOUIS CALHERN especially adept at showing us a teacher unwilling to be confrontational when it matters . It also deals with issues of race and ethnicity in a more moderate way than you might expect . It's notable today for its early use of rock music , specifically the " Rock Around the Clock " theme that's used over the opening credits . Summing up : An interesting study of the discipline problems many teachers face in city schools . Absorbing , well-paced and filled with tension from start to finish .
Wartime experiences of British men during early days of WWII . . .	The downed crew of a British destroyer have plenty of time to dwell on fond memories of their past as they cling to a raft on the open sea during the early days of WWII . Noel Coward's IN WHICH WE SERVE is a superior treatment of war - - at sea and at home - - as seen from the viewpoint of various crew members . NOEL COWARD plays the Captain of the ill-fated destroyer ; JOHN MILLS is a young sailor recalling his romance with a nice British gal , KAY WALSH ; CELIA JOHNSON is Coward's Navy wife who knows the ship is the foremost thing in her husband's life , but she bravely salutes it at a Christmas party ; and the large male supporting cast includes MICHAEL WILDING , a very young RICHARD ATTENBOROUGH as a troubled sailor and BERNARD MILES . The homefront scenes are reminiscent of a veddy , veddy British version of SINCE YOU WENT AWAY ( especially the romance between Kay Walsh and John Mills ) . It's all very stiff upper lip and that sort of thing , as expected from the British . There's an artfulness in the manner in which the story veers back and forth between past and present , mixing scenes of battle with homefront memories . Superb craftsmanship in writing , acting and direction and truly one of ' 42's finest films . Coward , who co-directed with David Lean , received an award for " outstanding production achievement " . One of the rare British films that was distributed in America at time of release , long before Americans were accustomed to viewing British films .
A cat concerto like no other . . .	You'll never listen to Hungarian Rhapsody No . 2 again without thinking of this classic MGM cartoon with Tom in concert mode performing at the Hollywood Bowl in formal attire while Jerry is asleep inside the piano . That is , until the performance begins . Then , as the music becomes more and more vigorous , Jerry adds his own special touch to the performance , much to the exasperation of Tom . Although the two of them are sparring throughout , they never miss a note of music - - which is the real bonus for music lovers who may wish to just sit back and listen to the music without visuals . Enormously clever and deserving of the Oscar it won in 1947 . It's the sort of cartoon that reminds us all of how beautifully the Disney people used music in all of their full-length features , probably an encouragement for the Hanna Barbera people to use it for so many of their cartoon classics .
One of my favorite Betty Grable musicals . . .	CONEY ISLAND was such a successful Fox musical that seven years later it was turned into another starring vehicle for Grable called WABASH AVENUE . It's a breezy turn-of-the-century show biz tale about two Coney Island hucksters and the tricks they play on each other to win patrons at their establishments . Betty is the brassy singer with the garish costumes and exaggerated singing / dancing style that Montgomery has to tone down by tying her to a prop so she can't move but has to deliver her ballad ( " Cuddle Up A Little Closer " ) without gyrating all over the stage . Naturally , the love / hate relationship blooms into romance with Grable and Montgomery making a pleasing match as a team . Lost of comedy relief from PHIL SILVERS and CHARLES WINNINGER , some nice song and dance numbers for Grable , and the whole backstage story is easy to take , the usual misunderstandings and schemes backfiring before the fadeout to a happy ending . For BETTY GRABLE's fans , this one has to be rated one of her best .
Leslie Howard shines in title role . . .	LESLIE HOWARD and MERLE OBERON both shine in this thoroughly entertaining film classic about the man who was an effete British gentleman by day ( Sir Percy ) and a noble avenger who saved many of his countrymen from the guillotine . As the dandy , Leslie is an unmitigated delight , delivering some ripely amusing lines with great flair . And Merle Oberon is a vision of loveliness as his wife who almost gives his identity away before she realizes who he actually is . It's photographed in crisp B & W splendor with elegant costumes and settings and given a rich supporting cast of players including RAYMOND MASSEY as the Frenchman anxious to trap The Scarlet Pimpernell , NIGEL BRUCE , MELVILLE COOPER and many others . The brilliant script has many memorable lines , most of them given to Leslie Howard's character when he's playing the dandy seemingly oblivious to the hunt for the disguised Pimpernell . Especially riveting are the opening scenes depicting the ugly public executions during the French Revolution and the crowds that delighted in them . There's never a dull moment . Well worth watching and should give fans a new impression of just how great an actor LESLIE HOWARD actually was .
Chilling horror story of an unusual night at the prom . . .	CARRIE probably represents the sort of outsider feelings author Stephen King had as a nerdy teen-ager in high school . He was able to reach into those cruel childhood memories to create a girl with telekinetic powers that gives her the ability to wreak revenge on her tormentors in a big , over-the-top sort of way . And he found the perfect director for such a project in Brian De Palma . His vision of Carrie's everyday torments makes for a very gripping film and one that deservedly won Oscar nominations for both SISSY SPACEK and PIPER LAURIE . Standouts in the cast include AMY IRVING , JOHN TRAVOLTA and NANCY ALLEN ( who became De Palma's wife ) . The disturbing scenes between Carrie and her mother have tremendous power but the highlight of the film , of course , is the famous prom scene where all hell breaks loose when the pranks get out of hand . It's a testament to the skillful playing of Spacek and Laurie that they got Oscar nominations in what is essentially a quality horror film . Summing up : If you like Stephen King stories , CARRIE ranks with the best .
The best of the Harold Lloyd comedies . . . simply wonderful . . .	I kept thinking how he deserves recognition as one of the great silent comedians alongside Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin - - especially with his wonderful work in the well-crafted THE KID BROTHER . The simple plot has him as the youngest and rather nerdy kid brother with his two strapping brothers towering over him as the apple of their father's eyes . Whenver something has to be done , he's left out of the picture while his father assigns his brothers to the task . But the funniest scenes have to do with him trying to outwit and pull fast tricks on his brothers in a series of sight gags . They're perfectly willing to bully him whenever a show of muscle is involved - - particularly when impressing a girl they all have a yen for . There are too many sight gags to enumerate here and they all involve physical dexterity and timing of the highest order . A particularly demanding set of stunts are performed in the latter half of the story when our hero must board a ghost ship to retrieve money his father has been accused of stealing . The scenes involve a monkey in a sailor suit and a vicious villain out for the kill in keeping hold on stolen money . All of it is photographed with great style and there's an emotional attachment to the romantic angle involving the girl ( JOBYNA RALSTON ) so that the hectic comedy is anchored by a story that keeps the comedy on firm ground . Summing up : A delightful physical comedy , wonderfully photographed and played by an excellent cast , with Lloyd at his all-time best . In my opinion , this one tops SAFETY FIRST .
Early De Mille epic is reverent , ambitious , artistic presentation . . .	The silent factor doesn't hurt THE KING OF KINGS . As seen on TCM with an appropriate background score and all of the two-strip Technicolor scenes intact , it's stunning visually and impressive from beginning to end . Of course , some of the acting belongs strictly to the silent period but overall the performances are right on target . H . B . WARNER is touching as Jesus , but Joseph SCHILDKRAUT is the standout in the cast , portraying Judas with great skill and conviction . ERNEST TORRENCE as Peter is effective too . DOROTHY CUMMING as Mary does a sympathetic job and VICTOR VARCONI makes an impressive Pontious Pilate . JACQUELINE LOGAN makes a vivid impression as Mary Magdelene . Child actor MICHAEL D . MOORE is excellent as Mark . The sets and costumes are opulent , as one expects in a De Mille epic , and the story is told at an even pace that belies the fact that it's extremely lengthy for a silent film of this period . TCM showed the full version . While the director took liberties with Biblical text to create a vivid cinematic work , it faithfully follows all of the main threads of the greatest story ever told . The film is enhanced by the silent factor since it does allow the viewer to use his imagination when it comes to the voice of Jesus . Summing up : Must rank among the great silent films - - well worth viewing . Trivia note : Interesting to spot WILLIAM BOYD ( Hopalong Cassidy ) as Simon of Cyrene who helps Jesus carry the cross . He's very effective .
The boy who knew too much . . . good thriller . . .	John Grisham knew how to milk the most out of a situation that has a boy who knew too much ( BRAD RENFRO ) about a Mafia murder , relentlessly pursued by the killers while seeking the help of a female lawyer ( SUSAN SARANDON in one of her better roles ) . It's the timeworn tale of a deadly hunt that has been done time and time again in books by Grisham , and usually with top thriller results . While THE CLIENT delivers the goods , it's not quite in the same league with THE FIRM . Joel Schumacher shows he knows how to direct a taut tale of suspense that has the audience wondering how and when the boy will end up in the clutches of the killers . There are several key scenes where the suspense is played to the maximum . I'm usually not a fan of Grisham's type of yarns when they become too complex to follow , but THE CLIENT is relatively easy to enjoy without straining to follow the events . TOMMY LEE JONES is amusing as a crafty Southern lawyer ( is there any other kind ? ? ? ) , and seems to be modeling his role after the juicy role he had in THE FUGITIVE . Brad Renfro is impressive in his pivotal role as the boy on the run and it's all extremely well done up until its suspenseful climax . Try it , you'll like it .
Good Bond action film never sets foot in Russia . . .	The location photography for FROM Russia WITH LOVE is full of splendid shots of Istanbul , Turkey , Italy and Scotland , but never gets near the territory mentioned in the title . Nevertheless , this is a gripping cold war spy story with Bond once again fighting SPECTRE's villains and encountering beautiful girls along the way . SEAN CONNERY's second turn as Bond is a good one , although I prefer him in his non-Bond roles which came later on . LOTTE LENYA as Rosa Klebb is " a disgusting woman , " as DANIELA BIANCHI ( a Russian spy ) so aptly says . But it's ROBERT SHAW who commands the most attention as the film's chief villain . His fight with Connery aboard the Orient Express is one for the books . Shaw says barely a word for most of his performance , but that evil glint in his eyes says it all . PEDRO ARMENDARIZ is his usual competent self as a man abetting Connery against SPECTRE . The combination of action , thrills , eye-filling scenic photography and John Barry's score helps considerably to make this one of the best of the Bond series . My top preference is still DR . NO . Summing up : Smooth , sophisticated and lots of fun .
Entertaining war drama with plenty of explosive moments . . .	John Sturges directed some fine movies in his time and THE EAGLE HAS LANDED is certainly one of them . It's a shame it isn't a better known war film , its fictional plot about an attempt to kidnap Winston Churchill coming from a best-seller by Jack Higgins . The plot is heavy going at times , particularly the whole first hour leading up to the planned landing , and some of the dialog - - heavily accented Germans - - is not easy to understand without subtitles . This is a serious drawback for setting up this complex mission and establishing everything for the viewer , but the second half of the film has enough visual excitement , action and tension to make up for the talky first half . MICHAEL CAINE is excellent as a German paratrooper commando posing as a Polish military man with his group of invaders when they land to carry out their mission . ROBERT DUVALL is effective as German Col . Radl and there are good performances from DONALD PLEASANCE as Himmler , DONALD SUTHERLAND as an IRA loyalist who has a brief affair with JENNY AGUTTER , JOHN STANDING ( excellent as a brave pastor ) , LARRY HAGMAN , as a cartoonish sort of " Mad Max " colonel , and TREAT WILLIAMS as a young Captain . It builds its tension steadily once the men have landed to complete their mission and there are many unexpected moments where anything can happen and usually does . It's all highly unpredictable and that's part of the fun in following the absorbing plot with its slight twist at the end . Visually , it's a pleasure to watch , photographed as it is in Finland and Great Britain in gorgeous color and featuring a score by Lalo Schafrin that adds to the excitement and tension . Summing up : Should be more widely known among all the war films produced during the ' 70s .
The ugliness of war as seen by an infantry platoon . . .	I saw this one years after it was made and the biggest imprint on me was making me feel depressed after watching how the men struggled to keep their sanity in a war that made no sense to anyone at the time . CHARLIE SHEEN is excellent as the college youth whose innocence about man's inhumanity to man gradually changes during the course of ground combat in the jungles of Vietnam ; and WILLIAM DAFOE and TOM BERENGER excel as two Marine sergeants who oppose each other ( hate is a better word ) with Berenger being the brutal bully and Dafoe representing a saner approach . Oliver Stone won his Best Picture / Best Director award and it's easy to see why . He kept the film's narrow focus on the men and the struggle they all have for survival under brutal circumstances . Missing are the stereotyped war buddies so commonly seen in the ' 40s films ( the guy from Brooklyn , the dumb newbie , the baby-faced Marine ) and instead we have more realistic characters facing a relatively unseen enemy hidden in the thick brush and using the kind of profane language servicemen commonly do whether in wartime or peace . It's quite an achievement in capturing all the ugliness of war up close and personal - - but clearly not a film for everyone . And because it doesn't paint a rosy picture of America at war , it can be particularly depressing to watch at this time . Another possible flaw is that it has no clearly discernible plot and you're left constantly wondering where the whole story is going .
Flynn shines in serious drama of WWI aviators . . .	DAWN PATROL was a forerunner of the " men facing war " kind of dramas that became a steady source of entertainment in books and films of the decades that followed , particularly after WWII . But this takes place during World War I in 1915 , when aviation was still young and men in the flying machines were sent into battle against greater odds than anyone could imagine . Basil Rathbone plays the commander breaking under pressure who has to see young men under his command die in battle against the Germans . He is delighted to be relieved of his command by the young flier who has been chiding him for sending inexperienced men into battle - - Errol Flynn . Flynn soon finds himself hounded by the same sort of pressures facing Rathbone . His best friend ( David Niven ) is a fun loving pal who has a change of heart when his younger brother ( well played by Morton Lowry ) , turns up for immediate duty despite a scant amount of training . Under Flynn's orders , the boy goes into battle the following day and is killed . This event sets up the dramatic conclusion which has Flynn willing to sacrifice himself and single-handedly take on a most dangerous mission across enemy lines . Edmund Goulding keeps the story going from one excellent scene to another and all of the performances are first rate . Donald Crisp is less stuffy than usual in a good supporting role . But it's Errol Flynn who makes the strongest impression in a role that calls for some fine moments of acting . His emotions seem genuine and his performance is crisp and mature . Indeed , one of his best performances in a well written role . The ultimate message of the film is the anguish and futility of war and it comes across without being preachy . Definitely a Flynn film that is well worth watching .
Cagney and O'Brien at their finest . . .	You can't miss with Michael Curtiz at the helm , Max Steiner doing the music , Ann Sheridan and Humphrey Bogart in supporting roles , the Dead End Kids for " the kids " , Pat O'Brien as a priest fighting gangland crime , and James Cagney as Rocky Sullivan , doing one of his best gangster impersonations . It's a tough crime drama with a tug of war between O'Brien and Cagney , boyhood pals , who find themselves reunited twenty years later when Cagney's out of prison and O'Brien's a priest . It's O'Brien's mission to try to save the " angels with dirty faces " from being filled with hero worship for Cagney's pugnacious villainy . The climactic scene has Cagney headed for the electric chair with O'Brien requesting that he show some streak of cowardice so the boys will stop using him as a role model for a life of crime . Once again , poor Bogart ends up writhing around on the floor riddled with bullets after he and George Bancroft double-cross Cagney . It's the typical Warner crime melodrama done with their usual finesse and well worth seeing if you're a fan of Cagney , O'Brien and Bogart - - or the young Ann Sheridan .
Paul Newman in another role that fits him like a glove . . .	The towering performance that PAUL NEWMAN gives as Hud is matched by all the other performances in this superior morality tale about a no-gooder , a lecherous heel with nothing but attitude and charm to spare when he isn't being a bad boy . Paul Newman settles down in this role the way he did as Cool Hand Luke , giving it his all . He's in good company . PATRICIA NEAL as the cynical housekeeper who has to fight off his lecherous moves when he's drunk , the woman who sees him as he is ; BRANDON deWILDE as the teen-ager who thinks Hud is a cool guy to be around until he understands the tension between his ethical grandpa ( MELVYN DOUGLAS ) and Hud ; and Douglas who gives a flawless performance as an old ranch hand who defiantly stands his ground against the man without a conscience . Ironically , because Newman plays the role with all of his trademark charisma and coolness , rather than being seen as the devilish anti-hero that Hud was , fans of the film fell in love with the smooth talking character he played - - warts and all . Newman had the capacity to make folks feel sympathy for the devil . The character relationships here are brutally honest and real , with many touching moments between scenes of harsh reality . Brilliantly performed by the entire cast , thanks to some firm direction from Martin Ritt , this is a real winner - - even with the downbeat ending and a rather spare score by Elmer Bernstein .
Rich fantasy in glorious color long before CGI effects . . .	The rating is higher than my usual mark for films of this type because the stop-motion photography is far better than that used only six years previously for THE 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD . Ray Harryhausen had obviously improved his technique of animating skeletons and giant-sized statues ( Talon ) , to the point where the combination of live action and stop-motion was - - if not perfect - - at least still amazing , considering the amount of work involved to get the right effects . He was right about disliking the idea of using a daylight scene for the skeleton finale shot in bright sunlight . Indeed , it would have been a lot more effective ( think Danse Macabre ) if filmed at night . The Bernard Herrmann score once again complements all of the action beautifully and at least TODD ARMSTRONG is a slightly better actor than Kerwin Mathews was as Sinbad . But nobody watching JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS is likely to be concentrating on the performances anyway . It's all highly escapist kind of fun , as Jason seeks the Golden Fleece and fights various strange creatures before he wins the love of Medea . I thought HONOR BLACKMAN entirely wasted as the Goddess Hera and some of her lines , in clipped British accent , were not even understandable when she dropped her voice to a whisper . Furthermore , she looked rather uncomfortable in the role . She was seen to much more advantage in the James Bond film as Pussy Galore . Technically , the film is far superior to 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD , photographed in gorgeous color with better integration of the trick photography , especially during the scene where Talos is encountered by Jason and his crew . Very impressive . Summing up : Rich fantasy for young and old , steeped in Greek mythology with all of the right fantasy ingredients .
Faithful version with Tommy Kelly an almost perfect Tom Sawyer . . .	Selznick's THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER is an extremely faithful version of the famous Mark Twain story , generally well acted and cast with the kind of precision the producer was famous for . TOMMY KELLY , despite some drawbacks in his acting , makes an almost perfect Tom Sawyer . He's a bit too quick in flashing the full smile , the nervous sideways glances , the hesitant speech pattern when confronting strict adults - - but then , in the ' 30s there was no HALEY JOEL OSMENT or DANIEL RADCLIFFE to fulfill requirements for more natural acting . Likewise , ANN GILLIS is a bit too coy as Becky Thatcher and even VICTOR JORY is a bit too melodramatic as Injun Joe . MAY ROBSON makes a wonderful Aunt Polly , stern but all the time showing that beneath the gruff exterior she's got a warm spot for her troublesome Tom . The final scene , where she slaps Sid in the face , is priceless . William Cameron Menzies created some wonderful effects for the cave sequence that he designed and the early Technicolor does justice to all the sets and costumes , giving the film the look of an illustrated children's version of the classic novel . Well worth viewing , although it may not be fast paced enough to suit today's children used to more fast-moving stories . Trivia note : Both TOMMY KELLY and JACKIE MORAN ( in a small role as Huck Finn ) had bits in Selznick's GONE WITH THE WIND the following year - - and both were featured in the Gettysburg battle death announcements , Kelly as a member of the band with tears in his eyes and Moran as Phil Meade .
Tense crime thriller in gritty noir style . . .	Some nice shadowy photography by John Alton and a well-paced storyline directed with style by Anthony Mann , makes for a diverting crime melodrama in crisp documentary style that was popular in the early to mid-'40s . Think BOOMERANG , THE HOUSE ON 92nd STREET , 13 ROUE MADELEINE and other Fox melodramas of that era . But this was done on a poverty row budget by Eagle-Lion with the usually light-weight actor DENNIS O'KEEFE in the sort of role usually handed to someone like Dana Andrews , Mark Stevens , John Hodiak or William Eythe if the film was made at Fox . He's surprisingly good as a noir hero whose task is to infiltrate a counterfeit gang with another Federal man , posing as would-be counterfeiters , and thus providing a succession of suspenseful moments where our hero is in danger of being exposed as a T-man for the government . Even more effective , in lesser roles , are CHARLES McGRAW and WALLACE FORD . In fact , McGraw would have been an even better choice for the lead than O'Keefe , his tight-lipped bearing and impressive physique suiting him for the role of a dangerous noir hero . June Lockhart has only a fleeting appearance in one brief scene but others in the cast are properly sinister or authoritative , according to the way the script depicts the supporting characters . Summing up : Worth a look , but not at the top of the film noir greats due to a script that is only slightly above average .
James Stewart finds his niche in sturdy western role . . .	This complicated western was a milestone in the career of JAMES STEWART after his return from war service , wanting to change his image by doing a western , which is largely regarded as the reason for the influx of westerns in the ' 50s since it's very impressive . Too bad it wasn't photographed in Technicolor . Stewart wins first prize for " the gun that won the West " , but then has to spend the rest of the film trying to recover it when it's stolen . SHELLEY WINTERS is a shady gal with an unsavory reputation and STEPHEN McNALLY is the local bad boy gunman in Dodge City . WILL GEER is Wyatt Earp and DAN DURYEA is Shelley's bad boyfriend . And wouldn't you know that , it being a Universal-International film , TONY CURTIS and ROCK HUDSON ( both quite unknown at the time ) have bit roles . An interesting sequence features the first Indian attack , whereby CHARLES DRAKE reveals himself to be a coward who rides off , leaving Shelley alone in the horse-drawn wagon . He later redeems himself , but it's just one of the twists and turns that has the gun passing from one unsavory hand to another - - but finally ending up with the rightful owner . STEPHEN McNALLY and JAMES STEWART have quite a final shootout that is almost as melodramatic ( but not quite ) as DUEL IN THE SUN's blazing guns finale . McNally makes the perfect villain and DAN DURYEA is equally treacherous in the kind of villainous role he played throughout the ' 40s as a low-life gunslinger . Tightly constructed story is extremely well directed by Anthony Mann , and it's fun to see ROCK HUDSON ( credited as Young Bull ) wearing Indian war paint and TONY CURTIS as a young soldier who casts longing glances at the then slim and attractive Shelley Winters . Well worth viewing and definitely an above average story .
Fred MacMurray almost steals the spotlight . . .	ALICE ADAMS is the film I'd heard about for years as one of Hepburn's best early films so when I had the chance to watch it recently on TCM I took advantage of it . From a novel by Booth Tarkington , it concerns a young woman anxious to connect socially with the right people who manages to attract the attention of a handsome and well-to-do young man ( Fred MacMurray ) at a party . Hepburn shines in the title role , looking fresh and attractive , struggling to keep him interested in her - - but unfortunately , with all of her trademark mannerisms not always held in check . She does well in the role but , in my opinion , the real magnet of interest is the under-appreciated Fred MacMurray who does a sincere and effortless job as her suitor in a role that could not have been easy to bring off . Both stars are in their physical prime , but MacMurray's naturalness only makes Hepburn look even more mannered than usual . Fortunately , this works because her character is supposed to be putting on airs . But at times , this is overdone . The awkwardness of the social situations are exploited - - and the highpoint has to be the warm dinner served on a hot evening , complete with maid service ( by Hattie McDaniel ) in one of the movie's most amusing , if uncomfortable , scenes . Here too , MacMurray displays just the right amount of stability against all odds . Fred Stone provides a number of chuckles as Hepburn's so provincial father . All of the supporting roles are nicely filled , with special praise for Ann Shoemaker as the concerned mother anxious for her daughter to find the right suitor . But it's Hepburn's showcase under George Stevens ' sensitive direction and she is convincing despite the overly mannered performance . Summing up : Although some of the situations seemed a bit forced and not everyone will appreciate the humor at Hattie McDaniel's expense , it's worth watching for Hepburn and MacMurray alone .
Hilarious demonstration of how not to perform shop work . . .	The Department of Labor was behind this amusing short wherein actor / writer DAVE O'BRIEN plays a bumbling steel plant worker who makes one careless mistake after another while handling dangerous tools . Played strictly for laughs , it also served as a public safety announcement and was rightfully Oscar nominated in the best short film category . Like all of these Pete Smith specialties , it's well scripted and fun to watch . A hammering distraction has him hurting his nail when a pretty blonde walks by ; his tie gets caught in machinery at the machine shop while wearing loose clothing ; he hits the pedal on several machines , activating them before he can get out of the way ; gets struck by flying pieces of hot metal at the welding shop ; and takes a short cut through a plating room with disastrous results . Through it all , O'Brien does physical comedy as well as anyone in the business and is delightful as " wrong way Butch . "
Paul Muni as the last of a dying breed . . . and his last screen role . . .	PAUL MUNI could always be counted on to give an interesting performance , even if sometimes over-the-top ( as he was in A SONG TO REMEMBER as Chopin's mentor ) . But here , in his last gasp as a screen actor , he does himself proud in an Oscar-nominated performance . He's a Brooklyn doctor , a dedicated one with his own brand of honest values and not above making house calls when the need arises ( a character trait that instantly dates the film ) . The story of how a clever TV man ( DAVID WAYNE ) tries to manipulate him in order to tell his life story on TV , is told in a very straightforward way with no unusual sub-plots or other distractions so that it ends up as a no frills entertainment and a time capsule of the late ' 50s-era Brooklyn , as well . Interesting to note some top featured players had bit roles here . Television's BETSY PALMER has a more substantial part , but BILLY DEE WILLIAMS , CICELY TYSON , LUTHER ADLER , GODFREY McCAMBRIDGE and CLAUDIA McNEIL all make brief appearances . Muni's performance was up against Charlton Heston's BEN-HUR - - otherwise there's a strong possibility he might have won another Best Actor Oscar . Directed with a sense of style by Daniel Mann and adopted by Gerald Green from his novel - - and yet , oddly enough , it has the feel of a teleplay adapted for the screen .
The essential film noir . . . has everything the genre demands . . .	OUT OF THE PAST is like watching a textbook lesson in Film Noir 101 . It has so many layers of plots and sub-plots , so much rich B & W texture in Nicholas Musuraca's shadowy photography , so many ambiguous moments that keep you guessing what's around the corner , and so many memorable quotes in scene after scene that you could spend the entire movie just writing down the crafty lines . What a blessing it must have been for these actors to read the script and savor the flavor of the lines they would be reciting . ROBERT MITCHUM , of course , slouching around in trenchcoat and hat on the prowl for the femme fatale , was at his peak as a movie hero , fully aware of the dangers ahead as he meets up with shady old friend KIRK DOUGLAS . ( Incidentally , the Mitchum / Douglas chemistry is just as strong , if not stronger , than that between Mitchum and JANE GREER ) . Greer has the sultry good looks for a femme fatale but she's just a little too poker-faced to make her crimes seem credible . Once the screenplay makes clear that he's about to be more prey than predator , it becomes fascinating to watch the way he falls into the web of deceit so completely . Then the film becomes a little more burdensome to watch as the double crosses begin . There ought to be an ALERT message flashing on the screen as the plot becomes more involved . You need to be watching carefully as events unfold on screen or you'll lose track of the story details that all mesh together at the end . Even the ending is not as deceptively simple as it looks . There are implications that someone is not telling the whole truth , but I won't give that plot detail away here . Stay alert until that final scene and you'll see what I'm getting at . Mitchum , Greer and Douglas are excellent and they have a wonderful cast of supporting players that never let them down . The script is a marvel of how a film noir should be constructed with the clever lines completely appropriate for the characters and never once do they ring a false note . By all means , it's the kind of private eye story everyone can enjoy , as dark and shadowy as any film noir you've ever seen - - and then some . It's one of RKO's most memorable noirs . Trivia note : Personally , I like the original title which , I believe , is the title of the novel : BUILD MY GALLOWS HIGH .
Taut thriller maintains high degree of suspense . . .	UNION STATION is a briskly paced thriller laced with enough suspense to keep the viewer intrigued until the final shootout in a tunnel below the station where badman ( LYLE BETTGER ) must be tracked down by hard-boiled detective ( WILLIAM HOLDEN ) so that a blind girl ( ALLENE ROBERTS ) can be returned safely to her father . Bettger has arranged a ransom for the girl to the tune of $100 , 000 and is determined to keep a grip on the suitcase containing the ransom money . NANCY OLSON is the woman on the train who first notices that one of the men has come aboard with a gun and she immediately becomes suspicious enough to report this to the authorities . Lead detective Holden takes charge and he and Olson gradually develop a relationship of trust that leads to the finale where she's tending to his wounded shoulder , while LAPD man ( BARRY FITZGERALD ) looks on approvingly , sensing love in bloom . It's directed in almost documentary style with a " Naked City " sort of realism . Holden and the police handle their suspects with realistically rough tactics which further heightens the tense realism of the story . JAN STERLING has a small role as a gun moll ( what else ? ) , who lets the police know that Bettger intends to kill the girl once he gets the ransom . LYLE BETTGER is superb as the snarling villain , easily stealing many of the scenes with his brutally menacing tough guy role . No wonder he played this sort of man in so many films afterwards . Well worth watching , nice work by Holden and Olson , with faint criticism for Barry Fitzgerald for mumbling much of his heavily accented dialog with that Irish brogue . The only other criticism is that the director allows ALLENE ROBERTS to scream too much , which becomes tiresome and makes Bettger come up with the crack , after slapping her : " For this , he's willing to put up $100 , 000 . "
Visually impressive melodrama is wildly overacted but still compelling to watch . . .	ORPHANS OF THE STORM is quite an impressive looking silent film from D . W . Griffith , who was obviously the Cecil B . DeMille of his day . He has an instinct for showing surging crowd scenes involving all the unrest during the French Revolution and these scenes are highly detailed and very arresting visually . All the sets and costumes look as though a lavish budget was spent on this story of two sisters who survive the French Revolution after many melodramatic twists and turns of their fortune . DOROTHY GISH and LILLIAN GISH are the sisters , with Dorothy as the blind waif who is separated from her sister when an overly amorous nobleman orders Lillian to be brought to his orgy . From there on , the Dickensian plot becomes thicker and thicker as the girls suffer one indignity after another in order to survive . LUCILLE LaVERNE is the old hag ( she later was the model for Disney's Wicked Witch in " Snow White " ) , a harridan who makes Dorothy a beggar in the streets . " You'll shiver better without a shawl , " is one of her immortal lines . Joseph SCHILDKRAUT is very impressive in an early American screen role , demonstrating charm and skill of the kind that would land him important parts in future costume films like " Marie Antoinette . " MONTE BLUE is Danton , a man who meets LILLIAN GISH early in the story and later becomes the defender who saves her and Schildkraut from the guillotine . It's all very melodramatic , the acting ranging from overdone to wildly overdone . Griffith was never subtle in asking his performers to give it their all . Excessive wringing of hands , eye-rolling to show anguish , fierce looks to show hatred , etc . may cause unintended chuckles when viewed by today's audiences , but there is never any letdown in the telling of a compelling story using the French Revolution as rich background material for a tale of villainy and heroism . A fascinating silent film with an appropriate film score added to give the story even more force and flavor . Summing up : Overlong drama , but compelling from the start to the feverishly melodramatic end . Exquisite close-ups of Lillian Gish are touching and lend poignant charm to her performance .
It's no " Laura " but it's good , gritty film noir . . .	WHERE THE SIDEWALK ENDS deserves to be a better known film directed by Otto Preminger , the man who gave the world LAURA . And this time , he's got the same co-stars : DANA ANDREWS and GENE TIERNEY . It must be said that Tierney here is under-used in what amounts to more of a supporting role while the spotlight goes to Andrews . He plays a tough , hardened cop used to dealing with a bunch of thugs in too vigorous a way until one night he accidentally kills a man in the process of arresting him . When suspicion falls on a cab driver ( TOM TULLY ) , he goes along with the investigation into the murder but starts to feel guilt because he's in love with the cabbie's daughter ( GENE TIERNEY ) . Tierney , by the way , looks a little too elegant for the girl she's playing here and doesn't seem to fit into the squalid background elements of the story . The story takes a grim turn as the investigation goes deeper and it's discovered that the murdered man had a silver plate in his head from his service as a war hero . By the end , it turns into a morality tale with Andrews developing a conscience over his crime . It's fascinating as film noir with capable performances from a strong supporting cast . A good entry in the field of noir , forcefully directed by Preminger and nicely played by Andrews and Tierney , despite the slight miscasting of her character .
Brisk Agatha Christie mystery moves at a gallop . . .	This is possibly MARGARET RUTHERFORD's most satisfactory excursion into Agtha Christie-land and she's helped by a delightful Ron Goodwin score that emphasizes her character with an infectious main theme and the gorgeous B & W photography , full of sinister shadows and proper atmospheric effects . Furthermore , Miss Rutherford is surrounded by some formidable British talent , such as Stringer Davis ( his Mr . Stringer is always a delight ) , Robert Morley ( blustery but fun ) , and most notably , FLORA ROBSON , remarkable as the timid companion of an elderly woman . I've seen most of these Miss Marple mysteries from the 1960s , and this has got to be one of the best . It moves at a swift gallop ( unlike some of the more tedious , slow-paced BBC versions ) , and the accent is on the humorous characterization that Rutherford is capable of . Purists may not think it serves Agatha Christie well , but taken on its own as a piece of comedy / mystery entertainment , it stands up well in that genre . Highly recommended .
A striking visual feast and stunning audio experience . . .	No , I wasn't expecting " depth " to the characters nor was I expecting to see a documentary about the famous battle at Thermopylae - - and perhaps that's why I can happily state that I was caught up in the frenzy and excitement and visual splendor of 300 from the opening scene to the touching ending . King Leonidas ( brilliant performance by GERARD BUTLER ) , is the Spartan King who must send his brave warriors to fight the huge Persian army . Butler is certainly not one-dimensional in the role , which is what would have happened in the hands of a less talented actor . He found many facets that humanize this ferocious King with an appetite for battle and he makes the most of his every moment on screen . The eye is drawn to him like a magnet , even in group scenes where his commanding presence dominates the action or the talk . Snyder certainly lucked out in finding exactly the right man for the role . In many close-ups he reminds me of the classic screen star ROBERT TAYLOR ( think " Ivanhoe " ) . And others around him are fine too . LEONA HEADEY makes an interesting , spirited Spartan Queen , with a beautiful face and a lovely commanding presence of her own . She's especially good in her scenes with the conniving DOMINIC WEST , as the two argue over sending a larger army against the Persian hordes . Their final confrontation is a shocker . Visually , the film is an artistic achievement that makes stunning use of the CGI and blending it with the studio shots in a way that resembles murals and famous works of art . This is one aspect of the film that is easily guaranteed to earn Oscar nominations in technical categories . Butler's command of the screen is more evident here than in any other film to date , including his work in PHANTOM OF THE OPERA . No doubt this will be an iconic role for him . Only drawback , at least in the theater I attended , is the sound mix of music and dialog could have been improved to the point where the spoken words are not drowned out by the relentless ( but fascinating ) background score , which tends to milk every melodramatic moment to the max . The battle scenes are well staged and I never found the use of slow motion distracting or inappropriate . Snyder has done a fantastic job .
Well , shiver me timbers , another good pirate tale . . .	TREASURE ISLAND is a good example of Disney's way with live action when he began departing from his schedule of full-length animated features . His money at the time was tied up in the European market and he decided to make this version of the film in England with a splendid cast of actors and handsome use of Technicolor . ROBERT NEWTON easily walks off with most of his scenes as Long John Silver , the man with the pegged leg and the parrot on his shoulder . Newton uses a malicious gleam in his eye to convey the cunning nature of his character but is usually a bit too theatrical to be completely convincing . Nevertheless , he's the focal point as far as the acting is concerned . BOBBY DRISCOLL is very competent and well cast as Jim Hawkins and must have enjoyed the experience of working in a story like this with pirates and a stolen treasure map as major themes . He's fun to watch and inhabits the role with professional ease . No wonder Disney used him as the live action model for his PETER PAN , released a few years later . Making a deep impression too is FINLAY CURRIE as Billy Bones , the man who gets his comeuppance early in the story . He gives vigor and flavor to his role , so much so that it's too bad his role couldn't have been expanded . Summing up : Colorfully done with lots of realistic flavor among the sets and costumes , all photographed in lush Technicolor and given a sentimental but satisfying ending .
Wood and McQueen are wonderful together in bittersweet comedy / drama . . .	NATALIE WOOD has probably never been more appealing than she is as a young Italian girl facing the problem of unwed motherhood after a brief affair with a man of equally modest means , STEVE McQUEEN . The simple story revolves around the situation of a girl whose pregnancy prompts her boyfriend to suggest an abortion because he's unwilling to commit himself to a relationship . It being the 1960s , the issues are played and discussed in the context of the time which may make the film seem dated now . But it's played with such charm by the two leads and given such a gritty , believable New York City background flavor that the result is a romantic comedy / drama that should appeal to any discriminating movie fan . Although there are some good supporting roles , notably EDIE ADAMS as a showgirl friend , director Robert Mulligan keeps the focus on Natalie and Steve and they're so strong that they make us feel it's a two-character film deserving of all their attention . Natalie's Academy Award nomination was well deserved . She's as sensitive and appealing as ever and McQueen makes an excellent co-star .
Enjoyable romantic comedy with the Mitch Leisen touch . . .	ROSALIND RUSSELL and FRED MacMURRAY have seldom had their flair for light comedy seen to better advantage than in TAKE A LETTER , DARLING in which the battle of the sexes involves Russell's career woman falling in love with her male secretary - - really more of a personal assistant here and one she hires to make deals with clients and their wives . MacMurray comes to resent the position he's placed in and there's some genuine wit and satisfactory situations resulting when Russell uses him to make her various deals . Predictably , she falls in love with him and it takes the whole story for the two to finally meet on common ground after a series of misunderstandings and plot complications involving MACDONALD CAREY and CONSTANCE MOORE as a brother and sister team who are both schemers who can match Russell any day . It's all very brisk , very ' 40s style in the way the situations are resolved . ROBERT BENCHLEY has a more subdued role than usual in comic support . But the chemistry between MacMurray and Russell is what keeps the whole thing bubbling along to a predictable enough conclusion . MACDONALD CAREY has one of his better roles as " the other man " who has already had four wives and decides Russell should be his fifth . Summing up : Amusing and well worth your time with a clever script by Claude Binyon .
Tweety introduces that famous " putty tat " line . . .	This is one of the better Warner Bros . cartoons of the era ( ' 42 ) , with two cats patterned after Abbott and Costello ( Babbitt and Catstello ) , with Abbott trying to get Costello to pry a teeny bird ( who turns out to be Tweety Bird ) , out of his nest . The gimmicks Abbott uses to get Costello launched into space are hilarious , each one more clever than the one before . This leaves little time to devote to Tweety Bird , but this is Tweety's first film and he doesn't look quite like the finished product that he became several cartoons later . The usual high standard of animation is present , along with the character voices supplied by Mel Blanc ( Catstello and Tweety ) and Tedd Pierce ( Babbit ) .
Informative featurette gives the background story on Laird Cregar . . .	Fascinating featurette is offered on the HANGOVER SQUARE DVD of the Fox film starring Laird Cregar , Linda Darnell and George Sanders and directed by John Brahm . This is a very informative short film that gives a detailed look at the brief film career of one of Hollywood's rising stars who met with an untimely death at the age of 28 when he attempted to lose a great amount of weight from his bulky frame . Scenes from his early successes are shown , from films like HUDSON BAY , THIS GUN FOR HIRE , BLOOD AND SAND , THE BLACK SWAN and several others , before he made his big splash in films like THE LODGER and HANGOVER SQUARE . The troubled actor , who won Hollywood's attention when he portrayed Oscar Wilde on stage before a Hollywood crowd including John Barrymore ( who wrote him a fan letter ) , was conflicted over his sexual orientation and wished to play romantic leading men rather than remain playing only " heavies " at Fox , the studio that seemed to want to typecast him in future roles . Anyone who has watched Cregar perform will truly enjoy this featurette . One of the narrators is Gregory W . Mank , who wrote an enormously effective book on screen villains aptly titled , " The Hollywood Hissables " . Well worth watching .
A throwback to the weepies of the ' 40s . . . gives the tear ducts a workout . . .	LANA TURNER knew a good part when she saw it . And there was even a courtroom scene that she could savor while she recalled her own real - life courtroom drama a decade earlier . She digs into the script with all of her being and gives one of the strongest performances of her career . Unfortunately , her co-star , John Forsythe , is all but invisible in a thankless role . But because the story was an old chestnut that had been done many times before , Hollywood seemed to turn its back on her work and she received not even a nomination for this , one of her best roles . At 45 , she was really too old for the early scenes depicting her as the young bride of a wealthy political candidate , but her make-up is expert and she looks radiant . She is soon to be undone by her mean mother-in-law , a youthful looking Constance Bennett ( who , incidentally , just had a face lift before starting the film , much to Turner's distress ) . The plot has Turner getting involved with a playboy ( Ricardo Montalban ) who gets too serious before she decides to ditch him . She rejects him and an accidental fall down a steep stairway ends in his death and leads to the mother-in-law's scheme to get rid of the unwanted Turner by sending her into exile and making her give up custody of her young son . The suds get thicker as Turner turns into a lonely woman who can never forget her past and the son she left behind . After an irrelevant episode with a concert pianist who wants to marry her ( Curt Jurgens ) , she hits the skids and ends up boozing it up in Mexico with an unscrupulous Burgess Meredith . At this point in the film , Turner really does the kind of emoting that should have guaranteed at least an Oscar nomination . She pulls no punches in revealing with gut wrenching honesty what she has become under the influence of alcohol , bitter self-contempt and loneliness . It almost comes as a relief when she reaches for a gun and shoots Meredith when he plans to use her for his own ends . Her acting is further strengthened by some courtroom scenes that show the ravages that her wasted life have done to her once lovely facade . And her expression in court , when she realizes that the young lawyer defending her is her own son , says more than a thousand words of script . There are moments throughout the film where she does some of her best acting since PEYTON PLACE . She is wonderfully supported in the final scenes by some excellent work from Keir Dullea , who shows great sensitivity in his dealings with the woman he only knows as Madame X . His final line : " I loved her from the moment I first saw her " is guaranteed to make the eyes tear after Turner's emotional courtroom outburst . Constance Bennett is efficient and cold as her mother-in-law but John Forsythe has such an underwritten role as Turner's busy husband that his performance is as wooden as any he has ever given . Luckily for him , he found his niche on television . By all means , if you're in the mood for a good tear-jerker and would like to see Lana at her best , this is one that you can't miss . The background score by Frank Skinner adds greatly to the story's effectiveness in wallowing in those soapy suds , reminding one of the days when Max Steiner would have been called upon to do exactly that for a Bette Davis film .
( POSSIBLE SPOILER ) . . . Enough smoke and fire to satisfy even the most hardcore arsonists . . .	You have to give the writers credit for originality . No one expects to have a dragon tale set in the 21st century , present day London . And if ever a movie was dominated by spectacular special effects , this is the one . A scarier bunch of fire-breathing dragons I've never seen before , artfully constructed so as to look as real as they are foreboding . The screeching soundtrack , full of whooshing noises and blasts of thumping music , adds to the scare factor and makes them look chillingly real . The actors seem to be having a fine time realizing they have to stick together to fight these awesome creatures . When the American Matthew McConaughey shows up ( looking like an escapee from a tattoo parlor ) and joins forces with Christian Bale and Gerard Butler , things really begin to happen . Fast moving entertainment with enough smoke and fire to satisfy even the most jaded arsonist . The FX wizards have done their work efficiently and there's no letup in the tension as the actors try to save a world that has been overcome by dragons living on the ashes of their spoils . Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey give performances so full of intensity that it's a relief to have Gerard Butler ( as the Scotch accented Creedy ) lighten the tone with a performance that combines masculine energy with some lighter tones . His unexpected demise toward the finale abruptly cancels any sense of humor the dialog allows from then on . It is the heroic Butler who gives the most satisfying performance among the male players . As the sole woman with a large action-filled part , Izabella Scorupco ( as Alex ) does an excellent job . Rob Bowman should be congratulated for designing a movie that will certainly appeal to anyone interested in dragon-slaying stories with the accent on the horror aspects . His team of special effects wizards have done a remarkable job in creating an atmosphere of tension and possible doom .
Worth watching before viewing the actual film . . .	What with interesting observations from Lincoln D . Hurst and other film historians , as well as amusing on the set comments from Nanette Fabray , this is a gorgeous addition to the DVD bonus features . Fabray was obviously in awe of beginning her film career with such biggies as Davis , Flynn and de Havilland , although she confesses that at the time she had no idea she was supposed to be impressed with director Michael Curtiz . She relates a story about missing her marks that shows Davis in a favorable light but is most amusing when indicating the crush she had on meeting Errol Flynn . A pleasure to watch since it includes clips from the majestically photographed film which looks even more vibrant in its new DVD version and gives the viewer a brief glimpse of the film's initial reception from critics . An appetizer that a viewer should watch before looking at the film itself . It will give you a fresh perspective on things .
Charming comedy of manners played to the hilt by a wonderful cast . . .	I can't quibble with those who say this departs from the original material in some respects , because I never saw the original . All I know is I watched it tonight for the first time and found it completely charming , easy to watch , easy to enjoy and easy to love . RUPERT EVERETT was the standout for me , excellent flair for light tongue-in-cheek comedy and COLIN FIRTH and REESE WITHERSPOON came in second with delightful performances . In fact , I can't find any fault with any of the cast members . It was all done exactly in the manner this kind of material calls for - - and on top of that , the costumes , settings , photography , music - - everything was pitch perfect . Or it could be that I was just in the mood to enjoy some light diversion after all the barrage of news on the cable channels and needed some relief from " real life " for awhile . At any rate , enjoyed the dialog between the two women , the two brothers , and , of course , with JUDI DENCH giving an imposing performance as the starch-collared Aunt Agatha who sees everything through the prism of class distinction . Very enjoyable film - - sorry if Oscar Wilde purists couldn't get past a few subtle changes . Some very funny lines recited so earnestly with straight faces that it reminded me what a witty man Oscar Wilde must have been .
Tough prison drama about escape from " the rock " . . .	When ALEC McGOOHAN , as the warden of Alcatraz , announces that " We don't make good people . We make good prisoners , " you know the convicts are in for a rough time from a man who is the equivalent of Captain Nigh when it comes to unreasonable punishment . The film is punishing too , in that it makes you feel the stark brutality that awaits anyone who doesn't toe the line - - brutal punishment both from guards and from other prisoners . As the new man on the cell block , CLINT EASTWOOD towers over the rest of the cast since he's the central focus of all the action . He's his own tough , terse self , given to brusque one-liners , determined not to let anyone play him for a fool . Thus , he has various encounters with guys who set out to stoolpigeon him in one way or another . There's a particularly graphic shower scene where he's roughed up by a man intent on forcible rape - - so the viewer has to be aware this story is not for the squeamish . It hooks you into the story from the opening sequence which has Eastwood going through the humiliating orientation experience , and from then on the story builds with suspense as he gradually convinces a couple of other prisoners to make an escape from " the rock " - - a plan that is fascinating to watch , although largely fictionalized because the actual men who escaped were never found and their true story never told . Don Siegel has directed with a firm control over his material and it's tense and action-packed with enough grim humor and suspense for a dozen prison movies . Eastwood is terrific and McGoohan makes a convincing adversary as he rules over the prison system with an iron hand . Highly recommended , the best of its kind .
Breezy , witty fun-filled comedy from the Broadway hit . . .	When I saw LAUREN BACALL do CACTUS FLOWER on Broadway , I never dreamed that one day I would see an actress like INGRID BERGMAN playing the Bacall role on screen . But here Ingrid really lets her hair down for some good comedy moments as the dental nurse pretending to be WALTER MATTHAU's wife so he can go on with the fib he's told GOLDIE HAWN . It's a story played for laughs from beginning to end , good-humored stuff that never runs out of dry humor and wit throughout its running time . There are plenty of one-liners or gags that are way above the usual situation comedy stuff one hears on TV - - the lines ring true because they blend so well with the characters and their motives . As the daffy girl who contemplates ( in the beginning ) committing suicide over her unhappy affair with Matthau , GOLDIE HAWN ( fresh from her days as a star on TV's " Laugh In " ) does a dumb blonde role to perfection . Easy to see why she won that Supporting Actress Oscar . Ingrid is surprisingly fetching in a rare comedy role , although there are times when she seems just a bit too matronly for the part . At any rate , she's a surprising choice to play the nurse who puts on a freeze act at the office but is considerably warmer off duty . As Goldie's next door neighbor , Igor , Rick Lenz acquits himself admirably , and makes a suitable match for her in that final scene . Matthau plays the kind of character that became his stock in trade in all those Neil Simon roles he had - - a lovable cad who gets caught up in his own messes when he tells lie after lie . It's the kind of rib-tickling comedy that'll have you laughing out loud at some of the amusing lines that Abe Burrows and I . A . L . Diamond have managed to scrap together , based on a French farce .
Taut thriller in the WWII vein about a failed plot to kill Hitler . . .	VALKYRIE accomplishes the mission it sets out to perform within a two hour running time . Under Bryan Singer's direction , it's a taut thriller bearing the outlines of a true story , handling a complex military plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler that depends on split-second timing to succeed . As we all know , it almost works . It's the " almost " factor that gives the film a gripping edge , even though we know the plot fails . The complete story of the events is pared down to make a concise thriller that wastes not a second of screen time . As Colonel Von Stauffenberg , TOM CRUISE gives an effective performance , given that no more of his background is known or explained fully . He delivers a crisp , tight , forceful performance , bolstered by the fact that others around him do equally convincing jobs . BILL NIGHY , TERENCE STAMP , KENNETH BRANAGH , TOM WILKINSON , THOMAS KRETSCHMANN - - these are the most prominent and all of them are splendid in portraying Nazi officers who recognize that Hitler's Germany is not the one they envision for the world , intent on seeing Hitler's Germany crushed and given new leadership . Photographed on many of the actual location sites in Germany , it's a vivid recreation of the period with excellent use of sets , costumes and explosives . All of the shattering wartime explosions are extremely well crafted , as is the bomb that almost destroys Hitler's conference room . The pulsating music score gives the film a solid amount of suspense once the plan is underway . This forces the first half of the film to be largely exposition , but none of the exposition is dull . It sets up the story to follow in an intelligent way . The New York Times movie critic dismissed the film's values and referred to Cruise as " too much Tom Cruise " to be believable in the role . Not true . It's much more serious than that , and the film's tone is totally unlike the style of many of the war movies of the ' 40s - - " Desperate Journey , " for example , featuring the antics of the Warner contract players in a film starring Errol Flynn and Ronald Reagan about putting one over on the Nazis , which was juvenile nonsense . It's intelligent and engrossing from beginning to end , an efficient WWII yarn based on true incidents that should be seen and appreciated for what it is - - not for bashing Mr . Cruise and whatever tabloid headlines exploit his personal life . It might also inform some of today's teen-agers about an event that actually happened during WWII - - at least those teens who are interested in the subject .
The twist is hard to believe . . . but his is one hell of a ride . . .	Thanks to some taut direction by Richard Fleischer , some incredibly tense performances from CHARLES McGRAW and MARIE WINDSOR and some very atmospheric shots of narrow passageways , dining cars and Pullman berths aboard a speeding express , NARROW MARGIN emerges as a swiftly moving melodrama sure to capture your attention from beginning to end . The story has police officer McGraw and his buddy on the force assigned to bring Windsor from L . A . to Chicago to testify against mobsters who rubbed out her husband . She's a bitter , whining , vindictive woman with a sharp tongue who never fails to give McGraw a hard time , even after his buddy is shot and she shows no remorse . Aboard the train , it becomes a cat and mouse game to keep her away from the assassins aboard who are intent on killing her . The plot is a tricky one and it's the twist that I find hard to believe . It rather startled me and comes so late in the story that I was nevertheless hooked until the final scene . The cast is uniformly good , all giving completely credible performances and making this one of the most enjoyable and dangerous train rides you're ever likely to take . Charles McGraw is impressive in his tough , street-wise way and Marie Windsor is at her most femme fatale in this tightly knit story .
Sight gags and physical comedy rule the day . . .	After a painfully dull opening joke about a misplaced hat , HOG WILD turns out to be one of the best Laurel and Hardy shorts , in a brief amount of time able to spotlight all of the silly ingredients that made them so popular in the ' 30s . Stan comes upon Oliver climbing a ladder to install a radio aerial at the request of his wife who wants to hear Japan . Stan asks if he can help and from then on the film is one slapstick situation after another , with Oliver getting the worst of the deal and giving the camera his special glance of despair . The rooftop happenings are funny enough but the finale with Oliver inadvertently being carried away by Stan's car while he's atop a ladder gives the ending a funny twist and some unexpected situations . Summing up : Easily qualifies as one of their best shorts .
Worth seeing for the cast alone . . .	STAGE DOOR was an old movie I'd heard of when I was a kid , so when it came to our local theater as part of a double-feature revival program , I couldn't resist having a peek at it . I was glad I did . I'm not a KATHARINE HEPBURN fan ( only like her in a few of her many , many films ) , but I thought she excelled in the role of a girl who came from money ( much like Hepburn herself ) to take a stab at acting ( much like Hepburn did ) as long as her father was willing to pay the bills . The other gals aren't as lucky , all of them depending upon that one big break to get them out of a rooming house for show biz gals on the fringe of the business , all with dreams of succeeding . It's not only a good showcase for Hepburn and her brand of acting , but it gives good roles to GINGER ROGERS , LUCILLE BALL , EVE ARDEN , ANN MILLER , GAIL PATRICK and , especially ANDREA LEEDS ( as the suicidal actress who can't deal with missing the brass ring ) . Ginger gets some of the best wise-cracking lines , as does Eve Arden ( with a cat draped over her shoulder ) and newcomer Lucille Ball . Amusing too is CONSTANCE COLLIER as an older actress still believing her press clippings . The men include dapper ADOLPHE MENJOU , FRANKLIN PANGBORN and RALPH FORBES . Predictable stuff , really , but enormously entertaining and fun to watch . Hepburn's manners sit well on this kind of arrogant , forceful role and none of the others let her down . Expertly directed by Gregory La Cava , it's well worth watching and deserved its recognition as one of the best films of 1937 .
Suspenseful thriller is based on true , unsolved case . . . excellent performances . . .	ZODIAC starts off with a bang , and then gets so bogged down in intense detective work that the thriller aspect is diluted by the time the first hour is over . Furthermore , since the case was never really solved , there's no real payoff at the end - - just more speculation . Despite this , it manages to hold the attention for well over two hours with a tale that zig-zags back and forth between a newspaper ( The San Francisco Chronicle ) , its crime reporter ( ROBERT DOWNEY , JR . ) and cartoonist ( JAKE GYLLENHAAL ) , and the police force with MARK RUFFALO as the lead detective on the case and his partner ( ANTHONY EDWARDS ) both committed to finding the Zodiac killer . The clever murderer keeps the police at bay over a period of years and still they try to uncover each clue and spend a great deal of time working on the unsolved murders that eventually claim some thirteen lives . The first murders are staged brilliantly by director David Fincher , and the film becomes a gripping search for the sadistic killer . But after the murder of a taxicab driver , the film veers into detective work with a penchant for detail that soon becomes bogged down in too much exposition . JAKE GYLLENHAAL is excellent as the boyishly enthusiastic cartoonist who soon becomes obsessed by the case . He's the one who eventually wrote two books on the subject . His scariest moment comes toward the end of the film when he's invited to the home of an acquaintance of the killer hoping to glean some important information . His fear and horror that the man might be the killer himself almost makes up for the fact that the story has no real solution . It's a brilliantly staged scene with his panic attack never overplayed . The other performances are uniformly good , but it's Gyllenhaal who does the most convincing job in the central role . Sad to see DERMOT MULRONEY wasted in the small role of a police captain . Summing up : Suspenseful and well directed , but loses some momentum when it shifts from the horrific murders to the relentless detective work .
Wartime Washington was never really this much fun . . .	THE MORE THE MERRIER is one of many comedies exploiting the theme of crowded Washington during the WWII period - - and one of the best . Personally , I thought it worked best until the point where CHARLES COBURN ( in his Oscar-winning supporting role ) was booted from JEAN ARTHUR's apartment over reading her diary . From that point on , the screwball situations became less amusing and the film stretches credibility a bit too far when the comic situations include McCrea suspected of spying on government buildings with his binoculars . The best moments come early in the film , when Arthur insists on clockwork timing to make getting up in the morning ( with a roommate ) workable . The frenzied rush to keep to her schedule makes for the most amusing moments in the story , thanks to the artful playing of CHARLES COBURN who is delightful as Mr . Dingle , the man who thinks that she deserves a nice , clean-cut young man rather than the stuffy fiancé she's engaged to . Along comes McCrea , and the rest of the plot has Coburn managing to bring the two lovebirds together . Amusing spoof of manners and morals of the period , with JEAN ARTHUR and JOEL McCREA shining in the leads and Coburn doing a nimble job of the cupid-playing Dingle with tricks up his sleeve . The last twenty minutes get a little tiresome , but overall it's a cheerful comedy well worth viewing .
Hugh Grant establishes his persona in excellent British comedy . . .	This is one of the funniest , wittiest , cleverest comedy / romances to come out of Great Britain , moving at a quick pace through a series of scenes commemorating FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL , with a cast of wonderful British players headed by HUGH GRANT and American actress ANDIE MacDOWELL . The running joke seems to be that Grant never knows what time it is , even though he's scheduled to attend a wedding almost every Saturday of his life . Grant plays the character in his standard befuddled , confused , yet charming manner and handles the role like a real pro . I'm not an admirer of ANDIE MacDOWELL but she's competent enough as his over-sexed sweetheart , the girl he falls in love with " at first sight " , with marriage eluding both of them because of some bad timing . At last , just when it seems Grant will tie the know with someone else , he comes to his senses ( thanks to a hilarious church scene that ends with his would-be bride punching him out of sheer vexation , knocking him flat on the church floor ) . Delightful performances by the entire cast , with special kudos to JOHN HANNAH , SIMON CALLOW , KRISTIN SCOTT THOMAS and ROWAN ATKINSON in great supporting roles . But it's Grant who keeps the thing buoyant and easy to take despite some of the implausibilities in detailing the relationship he has with MacDowell . Easy to see why the screenplay got an Oscar nomination .
Gripping police drama exposing corruption at L . A . precinct . . .	There's a strong resemblance to the much praised L . A . CONFIDENTIAL in this vivid story of crime and corruption on the police force , based partially on a true story involving these events . Basically , it's the tale of a black police rookie who tries to fit in by covering corrupt practices and tries to uncover the truth behind the false prosecution of a black man ( ICE CUBE ) . The black rookie ( MICHEAL BOATMAN ) suffers slurs inherent with being the first black man on the force and other social injustices within the department . All the performances are first rate , beginning with Boatman , who does a fine job , MICHAEL ANDERSON , BERNIE CASEY ( especially good as Ice Cube's lawyer ) , and ELLIOT GOULall first rate . LORI PETTY is also convincing as the only woman rookie who helps Boatman in his investigation . MICHAEL IRONSIDE is chilling as one of Anderson's most corrupt officers . Given terse direction by Charles Burnett in well paced , brisk , documentary style , it maintains a grip on the attention throughout as it unravels a tale of police corruption and the hard decisions that have to be made .
Not quite up to the first Godfather film - - but chilling enough . . .	" I don't feel I have to wipe everybody out . Just my enemies . " So says Michael Corleone ( AL PACINO ) in THE GODFATHER : PART II . Pacino plays the part with somber seriousness that becomes a bit one dimensional by the time the film is midway over . Nor is the story as compelling as the first Godfather film . But you have to hand it to director Coppola , he keeps the viewer glued to the screen even when the pauses between dialog is a bit longer than needed . ( No wonder the film is so long ! ! ) . And with the risk of being politically incorrect , you can almost smell the garlic in every scene , so realistic are the accents and the background flavor of the entire film . So many plot developments are almost throwaways because the screenplay seems to be deliberately ambiguous about certain plot elements . And yet , the film has a certain holding power and all of the performances are more than competent . Especially poignant - - and chilling - - is the scene where Fredo's fishing expedition takes place with stormy looking clouds setting the eerie scene to perfection as the expected murder takes place . With murderous intentions just around the corner in practically every scene , it's a fascinating film to watch , especially since the murders themselves are so deftly handled by the actors involved . DIANE KEATON is especially convincing in the final confrontation with Pacino . I don't think GODFATHER II compares favorably to the original film with Brando , particularly since it's not always successful in telling two stories - - the one involving the young Vito ( ROBERT DeNIRO ) and the present story - - but it still packs a wallop when it gets to the intense moments . The double strand of stories doesn't always mesh well , a weakness of structure that hurts the film . Despite this major flaw , it's a superior piece of film-making .
Very amusing Harold Lloyd two-reel short . . .	There are three segments to this two-reel short , and each one has their highlight . It begins with HAROLD LLOYD as a struggling writer who can't pay the rent ( a flimsy amount of $3 . 70 is overdue ! ! ) and this leads to a boarding house sequence that has him avoiding the grim landlady and her strong partner bent on giving deadbeats rough treatment . Lloyd excels in this segment as he narrowly avoids detection when they try to track him down . BEBE DANIELS makes little impression as " the girl , " also unable to pay her rent until Lloyd comes to her aid . Thereafter , there's a backstage Broadway scene that has Lloyd trying to sell his story to a producer with dismal results . And finally , a gambling joint scene climaxes the film with a wild chase as the dumb cops try to nab Lloyd , who comes up with an ingenious coat rack trip that has to be seen to be believed - - or described . This all plays very quickly - - fast and funny throughout with nary a lapse of pace , making it one of the most enjoyable of all the Lloyd silent shorts that I've seen . The TCM showing has it accompanied by a brisk musical score .
Building of the New York Subway system makes fascinating story . . .	Fascinating documentary on the construction of the N . Y . subway which opened in 1903 . Includes the various accidents that made improvements necessary , the switch from steam engines to electric tracks , the stories that made newspaper headlines throughout the early part of the 1900s , and newsreel footage of various stages of progress that led to the ultimate underground system we have today . The latter footage is extremely interesting for history buffs who enjoy seeing how New York City looked when the railroad was being constructed . The program that followed on PBS showed how Grand Central Station was constructed and made an excellent companion piece to the " New York Underground " segment . Once again , the footage showing what 42nd street looked like during that era made for a fascinating glimpse of history in progress . These " American Experience " shows are in a class by themselves .
Richard Basehart as stone cold killer is very effective . . .	HE WALKED BY NIGHT is a neat little film noir filmed in semi-documentary style ( narration included ) , typical of several films from the ' 40s-era ( BOOMERANG , THE HOUSE ON 92ND STREET ) , taut with suspense lasting a brisk 79 minutes and released by Eagle-Lion , a small independent company . RICHARD BASEHART ( one of Hollywood's most underrated actors ) was always an interesting actor to watch and here he has one of his best roles as a petty thief and murderer who uses his skill as a radio / television technician to make a fast buck with stolen property . His scenes with WHIT BISSELL are chilling in the cold-hearted manner he deals with the man who has given him some business breaks . SCOTT BRADY , as a detective who takes it upon himself to help solve the case of the elusive killer , is excellent . JACK WEBB is featured in a small role and ROY ROBERTS is likewise effective as Capt . Breen who uses some state of the art ( at the time ) technology to put together a composite picture of what the killer might look like . The very tense build-up to the capture is film noir at its best with the camera exploring the dark underworld of sewer tunnels in San Francisco that I never knew existed . This gives the film a sort of " Third Man " look as the murky sewers become a set piece for the staging of the final shootout . Well worth watching , especially for fans of the film noir genre .
Warm tribute to Errol , Olivia and Raoul Walsh . . .	Although it's only nine minutes in length , TO HELL OR GLORY is a fitting tribute to the talents of ERROL FLYNN , OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND and RAOUL WALSH , with historians Lincoln D . Hurst , Robert Osborne and Rudy Behlmer all commenting on the overall merits of THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON , despite its lack of historical accuracy . It's nice to hear Hurst , for example , saying that when you think of the great romantic teams in film history you don't have to go any further than Errol and Olivia , who really adored each other , even if they were not a team in real life . He thinks it's Flynn finest performance , showing maturity as the role develops and under Raoul Walsh's fine direction . All three of the historians discuss the relationship of Flynn and de Havilland both within the story and in real life , so it makes for an informative and all too brief discussion of the film , but at least there are some brief film clips of the most moving scenes .
Well crafted documentary on a timeless Disney classic . . .	With the score of BEAUTY AND THE BEAST in the background , the documentary starts out with CELINE DION talking about the " making of a tale as old as time " and we're given bits of information about the film from the various artists and animators who worked so well on the Disney film . In other words , the segments are broken down into discussions on the characters , the art work and the technology that went into making BEAUTY AND THE BEAST with a younger team of animators who had already had great success with THE LITTLE MERMAID . Walt Disney himself had been interested in doing the story some day , from the ' 30s to the ' 50s , keeping it in mind but putting it aside while he concentrated on other projects . The challenge was to top the ' 46 French film which , although a great success , focused mainly on the two central characters and did not give animators enough to work with . So , it was decided to have the enchanted victims of the household become the Greek chorus for the story and to add a villain ( Gaston ) to thicken the plot . All of the animators were thoroughly impressed with the music and songs of Ashman and Menken which propelled the story forward and gave it " style and scope " while furthering the plot . There is much talk about how the " victims of enchantment " in the castle gave the film comic relief and added so much to the story's point of view . The success of the film was due in part to its ability to transmit the message of the transforming power of love in an affirmative way . Everyone connected with the film knew even before its release that it was destined to be a product they could be proud of . But even then , they were overwhelmed by the enormously favorable reviews . As Robert Osborne states : " It's one of the Disney films that will last forever . " He's so right . Like a true classic , this " tale as old as time " will be remembered as long as the other Disney animated features that began in the ' 30s .
Hitchcock without the gimmicks . . .	THE WRONG MAN is a bleak Alfred Hitchcock movie filmed in suitably low-key style with crisp B & W photography and two very deeply felt performances by HENRY FONDA and VERA MILES . Hitch's fear of police ( traumatic experience as a youth ) serves him well in crafting the kind of intimidation a man feels when he's unjustly accused of a crime he hasn't committed . Eyewitnesses place him at the scene of the crime and the police are ready to lock him up and put him away in prison . The only one who believes in him ( or his innocence ) is his wife , VERA MILES , but she begins to undergo serious mental stress as the situation seems to get more and more hopeless . Eventually , she is driven to the brink of insanity and her heart hardens toward her husband . Vera Miles is excellent in the role , subtle and completely believable . What distinguishes THE WRONG MAN from other Hitchcock films is that it's all filmed in a brisk , documentary style that leaves no room for the usual gimmicks . It's about as straightforward in its story-telling manner as any of his films has ever been , based on a true life incident in the life of a man falsely accused . Summing up : Well worth watching , but not unless you're willing to be more than a little depressed by the somber mood .
Tightly constructed western with that unforgettable Dimitri Tiomkin song . . .	HIGH NOON impressed me years ago when I first saw it , less so today when viewed on TCM . Sure , GARY COOPER has the kind of noble , sturdy role he was always adept at playing and GRACE KELLY , in a less impressive role , does okay as his loyal sweetheart , but the whole thrust of the story - - and its theme of bravery vs . cowardice - - did not seem as powerful as it once did . But what did still strike me as impressive was that wonderful song , " Do Not Forsake Me , Oh My Darlin ' " which runs through the score at various points . Other than that , it's definitely a good western with a very capable supporting cast - - but just not one of my favorites . Maybe it's just too simplistic - - I don't know , I can't put my finger on it , but it doesn't resonate the way it should under Fred Zinnemann's taut direction and Carl Foreman's tight screenplay . Wisely , it all takes place within 85 minutes , pretty much in real time . I'm still impressed by KATY JURADO in one of her early film roles and LLOYD BRIDGES and others do well as the various townspeople - - THOMAS MITCHELL , OTTO KRUGER and LON CHANEY , JR . But I have to admit , it's mainly for that catchy tune that I remember the film with a certain fondness . That and the very tense ending seem to make it worthwhile .
High praise for most of the ingredients that went into " The Sea Hawk " . . .	This documentary starts with Korngold's rousing score beneath scenes of ERROL FLYNN as THE SEA HAWK , and then begins with narration by Lincoln Hurst , Rudy Behlmer and Robert Osborne , all of them full of praise for the classic swashbuckler that Warners was so capable of making . Noted are the sets which were leftovers from THE PRIVATE LIVES OF ELIZABETH AND ESSEX and ROBIN HOOD ; that the Howard Koch script was really a reflection of the times : Hitler vs . Churchill in the 20th Century ; the bigger budget for this than for CAPTAIN BLOOD , with two life-size ships built on a huge sound stage on hydraulic lifts so the ships could sway ; and the fact that Errol Flynn , although the biggest box-office draw at the studio , never felt fully appreciated by Jack Warner , who never took him seriously as an actor . ALAN HALE and FLORA ROBSON are praised highly for their contributions , but BRENDA MARSHALL is cited as a " cool Norwegian beauty at her best when being morally indignant " but no substitute for Olivia de Havilland , according to Lincoln Hurst . Musician John Mauceri further states : " Seeing Errol Flynn without Olivia was really hard for everybody . It's really difficult to accept the fact it should be Olivia de Havilland and how could he dare look at a woman when it's not Olivia like that . " And he goes on to praise the Korngold music which is probably one of the finest scores he ever wrote , whereas another composer might have been content to merely recycle his score from other films . Another detriment aside from the casting of Brenda Marshall , is the fact that HENRY DANIELL , while a wonderful villain , could not fence and is seen only in the close-ups of the dueling scene . A double had to be used for 90 % of the fight , which nevertheless manages to be one of the best staged duels of its kind , thanks to imaginative camera work and Michael Curtiz's direction . Summing up : A fascinating glimpse of the Flynn classic .
Colorful tale under the big top with DeMille and company . . .	Circus life takes center stage while the trite backstage story involves a three-way romance between CHARLTON HESTON , BETTY HUTTON and CORNEL WILDE that is only occasionally moving . Hutton downplays the boisterous side of her personality to give dimension to her role as Holly , conflicted by feelings for Wilde and Heston that run from hot to cold . Wilde is impressive in his stunts but hampered by an atrocious French accent that comes and goes . For added interest , GLORIA GRAHAME plays a feisty girl with a talent for tricks with an elephant , and DOROTHY LAMOUR plays a gum-chewing wise-cracker who gets to do a South Seas island number as a tribute to her " Road " films with Crosby and Hope ( who are seen among the circus audience crowd ) . Romantic complications have Gloria Grahame pursued by LYLE BETTGER but more interested in CHARLTON HESTON . Then there's the darker side of the circus story in the JAMES STEWART clown character , Buttons , who uses his clown face to hide from the authorities who are looking for Stewart who is actually a doctor who murdered his wife ten years ago and is on the lam with the circus . All the gaudy threads of the story are held together by DeMille's taut direction which manages to show details of circus life while keeping the backstage story flowing smoothly against colorful backgrounds . The climactic train wreck is well staged and adds some dramatic wallop to the story's conclusion . HENRY WILCOXSON and LAWRENCE TIERNEY are effective in minor roles . Among the circus crowd extras enjoying the show : MONA FREEMAN , NANCY GATES , BING CROSBY , BOB HOPand EDMOND O'BRIEN , who has a bit as ringmaster for the film's final shot . Summing up : An extravaganza that's a tribute to the Ringling Bros . circus in the DeMille tradition of showmanship . Whether it deserved that Best Picture Oscar is still debatable .
Unlikely setting for a World War II comedy are the ruins of Berlin . . .	Billy Wilder obviously had a cynical point of view in mind when he directed A FOREIGN AFFAIR and cast JEAN ARTHUR , MARLENE DIETRICH and JOHN LUND in the leads for a story about an American congresswoman ( Arthur ) investigating conditions for GIs in post-WWII Berlin . The rather bleak atmosphere seems to work against the material at times , but the script is witty enough to overcome any such distractions after awhile . There's even a song for Dietrich called " The Ruins of Berlin " which she delivers in her own sultry style . I'm sure fans of JEAN ARTHUR must have enjoyed seeing her as a prim woman without any obvious romantic inclinations but it seems clear that here she's repeating the same sort of role she played many times , usually opposite stars like Joel McCrea or James Stewart . She was away from the screen for four years before she returned for this one , undoubtedly aware that it was a clever script . And while she's good , it's MARLENE DIETRICH who steals the spotlight , not only with her glamor and intriguing persona , but a couple of songs she performs in Dietrich style in the Berlin nightclub scenes . And for a leading man , neither actress can complain about JOHN LUND , who proves that his studio never made him a big enough star . He's more than able to share the limelight with the female stars and has enough masculine presence and likability to carry the day . The story has staid Arthur discovering that she's falling in love with Lund , while at the same time aware that he's been courting a German nightclub singer - - so that things get a little heated before they're straightened out for a happy ending . Summing up : The Charles Brackett script proves that the Brackett / Wilder combination was something to deal with .
A towering performance by Daniel Day-Lewis as corrupt oil man . . .	Blood , oil and religion seem to be the heated topics for this version of Upton Sinclair's novel " Oil " , and the presentation is starkly realistic from beginning to end , with DANIEL DAY-LEWIS giving another one of his towering performances in the central role of a corrupt , guilt-ridden man who can't talk about his evil deeds . His antagonist is a preacher ( PAUL DANO ) of hellfire and damnation , played with an oily mixture of naiveté and money madness , who wants his fair share of the wealth on his doorstep . It's really the battle between these two men that grips most of the story and leads to a startling climax . While all the performances are valid enough , it's a shame to see CIARIN HINDS so wasted in a role that barely gives him a chance to utter more than a few lines as a steadfast friend . More prominent in the supporting cast are DILLON FREASIER as the boy adopted by Daniel Plainview ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) when his real father is killed in a mining accident toward the beginning of the story . The boy is led to believe that he is the real son , only because Day-Lewis wants to use him and his innocent face as a way to secure deals . When the boy is a grown man and wants to move away with his new bride , Day-Lewis ruthlessly exposes the truth about him being an orphan and banishes him from his life with hateful curses . All of this is never fully explained , but we do know that he has a hatred for most people which he openly admits to a man who poses as his long lost brother Henry ( KEVIN J . O'CONNOR ) . Here too , we can sense a dangerous relationship built on lies and moving toward a violent climax . DANIEL DAY-LEWIS inhabits his role with great intensity and although he is said to base his speech pattern on John Huston , he looks and sounds like he's chanelling Walter Huston as he appeared in " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " as the old prospector . There are moments when his facial expression reflects the sort of penetrating gaze and wicked gleam in his eyes that Walter Huston had . It's almost uncanny . At any rate , Day-Lewis certainly deserved his Best Actor Oscar for this gripping film , stark but relentlessly moving and sometimes emotionally draining to watch .
( SPOILERS AHEAD ) . . . Powerful story is one of the screen's early " big house " prison melodramas . . .	So many high quality prison melodramas have been on the screen in the last few decades that this one - - made in 1930 - - has to be reviewed in the context of its time . As such , it's a well-written , powerful study of men behind bars , none of whom observes a code of conduct likely to make them good material for rehabilitation . CHESTER MORRIS is a forger , WALLACE BEERY is a thick-necked bullying murderer and ROBERT MONTGOMERY is a comparative " innocent " with a drunken manslaughter charge against him . They share the same cell and are soon involved in bickering and double-crosses that make up most of the plot contrivances that lead to a prison break where all hell breaks loose . Within the conventions of crime melodramas , this one maintains passable interest today although it lacks the taut tension of more modern prison dramas . Filmed when sound in film was only two years old , there is virtually no background music at all - - a factor which dates the film's style and gives it a static quality during moments where music would have raised the drama to a higher pitch . CHESTER MORRIS , an interesting actor , is likable and energetic as the man who walks out of prison a free man after helping to contain the riot . ROBERT MONTGOMERY does a fine job as the coward who breaks under the stress of having betrayed another prisoner and LEWIS STONE does a good turn as the warden . Overall , it's better than average for this sort of thing - - well paced despite the lack of background music to emphasize the drama - - and worth watching for the performances . Beery is especially good and deserved his Best Actor nomination . Chester Morris is equally impressive in the top-billed assignment , forceful and convincing all the way in a showy role . But I have to conclude that Warner Bros . seemed to have a better handle than MGM on this sort of tough , stark material . Raoul Walsh's WHITE HEAT ( ' 49 ) with James Cagney is the best example .
Wilde's comedy of errors is in good hands . . . What's in a name ? . . .	THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST has had several reincarnations on film but this British version from the ' 50s , directed by Anthony Asquith and starring MICHAEL REDGRAVE ( as one of the men assuming the name Earnest ) , is one of the most satisfying because of a splendid cast . The Victorian comedy of manners includes impeccable performances from EDITH EVANS as Lady Bracknell and MARGARET RUTHERFORD as Miss Prism with a delightful leading lady role for JOAN GREENWOOD , as one of the young ladies confused by identity crisis . MICHAEL DENISON is the snobbish other man using the name " Earnest " . So many typical Oscar Wilde witticisms come through in the dialog , so fast and furious that it's impossible to remember all of the very quotable comments made by the participants in this wonderfully played farce . I love one particular line : " One should always bring one's diary along when traveling by train . It gives you something sensational to read . " Summing up : What's in a name ? Plenty . Just as wonderful as the more recent version with Rupert Everett . Asquith's clever direction is right on target to spice up the comedy from beginning to end with sparkling performances , as only the British can do . Benjamin Frankel's sprightly score is an added delight .
Manhattan gets the James A . FitzPatrick treatment . . .	This is undoubtedly one of the best of the FitzPatrick Traveltalk series . It spotlights a lot of NYC landmarks , beginning quite appropriately with the Statue of Liberty - - and proceeding to the famous bridges , Wall Street , Trinity Church , the 3rd Avenue El , the Bowery , Chinatown , the Flatiron building , the Empire State , Herald Square , the N . Y . Public Library , the U . N . project in early stage of development , the Central Park Zoo , the Museum of Natural History , and the Fifth Avenue area with Rockefeller Center and its main shopping districts . The tour ends at the Waldorf-Astoria with an inside glimpse of folks enjoying a night at the Starlight Roof . Among the celebrities is Ann Miller . Xavier Cugat and his Orchestra get to play one of Cugie's own tunes while his lively band goes through its paces . A nostalgic trip down memory lane for many of us able to remember these days . Most interesting of all for me were the theater marquees flashing signs that read " Easter Parade " or Walt Disney's " Melody Time " with views of the Strand and Loew's State marquees among others . Noticed how well-dressed most New Yorkers appeared to be in the late ' 40s as opposed to today's rather sloppy looking apparel for men and women .
French film noir doesn't get any better than this . . .	POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADA couple plot a well planned murder only to have unforeseen events blow up in their face . The murderer ( MAURICE RONET ) gets stranded in an elevator when he goes back into the office building to retrieve a rope he used for climbing into an executive's window . The plot takes a double spin when a young couple take his car for a joy ride while he's trapped in the elevator . They get involved with another couple on the road , and the young man ends up killing the other driver and his wife after trying to steal their car . He's been using Ronet's identity which makes the police draw the wrong conclusion . JEANNE MOREAU is the young woman waiting in vain for her lover to return , not knowing that he's been trapped after committing what they hoped would be the perfect murder . The rest of the plot gets tangled up in mixed identities so I won't give any more of it away , but the ending is wrapped up neatly by a plot device that reveals to the police just who murdered whom . Well worth watching - - an enjoyable film directed by Louis Malle in film noir style with a jazz soundtrack that gives it a still modern look .
Edward Norton delivers the chills . . . ( POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD )	PRIMAL FEAR is a good old-fashioned thriller with a modern twist . The plot concerns an altar boy accused of killing a clergyman who molested him and a sleazy lawyer who sees a chance to make tabloid news by taking the case . What he doesn't know is that his client can be just as cunning as he is . RICHARD GERE seemed to specialize in playing these kind of low-down heels ( typecasting does have its perils ) , and LAURA LINNEY as the prosecuting lawyer has her hands full trying to play a game of one-upmanship against him during an intense courtroom trial . The story ends on a chilling note , thanks largely to the clever , intense and totally convincing performance ED NORTON gives in his film debut . As the guy who seems to have a devious split personality driving him to do bad things , he's the kind of actor who makes the audience sit up and take notice of his abrupt mood changes . It's no wonder he pulls the wool over so many eyes . Having said that , it's the climax of the film that is most stunning and brings the story to a totally unexpected conclusion . It's the kind of chilling twist that only the most clever scriptwriters can devise and make seem probable - - but it succeeds here . Summing up : The kind of film you'll want to revisit once you know the whole score . Gere , Linney and Norton deserve high praise .
Pleasant cast does wonders with slight comedy	Olivia de Havilland spent most of her post-Oscar years in serious dramas , so it's nice to see her looking so radiantly lovely in a technicolor comedy , enjoying herself in a comedy for a change . Paris is the setting and the color photography is excellent . The slight story concerns de Havilland seeking to prove to her father ( Edward Arnold ) and a senator and his wife ( Adolphe Menjou , Myrna Loy ) that American servicemen aren't all wolves and to prove it has a harmless fling with a young G . I . ( John Forsythe ) . Unfortunately , as in all Norman Krasna comedies , plot complications develop before she winds up in Forsythe's arms for an amusing final scene . The cast sparkles with some fine work by de Havilland , Myrna Loy , Adolphe Menjou , Edward Arnold and - - in one of his funniest roles - - Tom Noonan . Only bad piece of casting is John Forsythe - - who looks wooden and uncomfortable throughout with no comic flair whatsoever . Despite this , de Havilland manages to give a spirited performance that won the Belgian Prix Femina for Best Actress in a comedy in ' 56 . Slight but amusing and very watchable .
The saga continues - - in good form . . .	NORTH AND SOUTH , BOOK II has to be one of the best TV mini-series ever made about the Civil War . Everything about it is epic , including the battle scenes and the scope of the story which uses the Civil War background in an interesting way . Many real-life personalities are woven into the story of love and friendship during the war - - including HAL HOLBROOK , impressive as Abraham Lincoln , and LLOYD BRIDGES as Jefferson Davis . Once again , the fortunes of the Hazzarads and the Mains is told in interesting vignettes that take shape as the story progresses through the start of the war until the end . Along the way , you'll recognize a lot of famous names , including KIRSTIE ALLEY , in one of her unlikeliest dramatic roles , OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND , David CARRADINE , LESLEY-ANNE DOWN , PARKER STEVENSON , PATRICK SWAYZE , LEE HORSLEY , JEAN SIMMONS and JAMES STEWART . Olivia de Havilland has told an amusing anecdote of how she only accepted the role of Mrs . Neal , the head nurse , when told that she tended to the wounded of both North and South - - since the South had already only known her as Melanie , the flower of southern womanhood in GWTW . Photographed in color , it's exceptionally well filmed with sets and costumes that are above reproach . Aside from the romantic angle , it presents an accurate picture of the Civil War era and is a sort of history lesson as well as a compelling drama . Well worth viewing and every bit as impressive as Book I .
" The Big Country " is the grand-daddy of overblown westerns . . .	GREGORY PECK's innate ability to play a man of integrity is never better utilized than it is by director William Wyler for THE BIG COUNTRY . In fact , Wyler is able to draw expert performances from all of the male leads , who really do exceptional work here . It's the men who dominate the film and Wyler gives them all a chance to show what they can do . The film itself is a bit overblown , even for an epic western . As the most villainous of BURL IVES ' sons , CHUCK CONNORS stands out in a very aggressive role as the gang of four who welcome Peck to " the big country " by taunting him with reckless energy as they lasso him , tear his hat off , shoot at it , keeping his fiancé , CARROLL BAKER in check to witness their humiliating tactics . But Peck is a gentleman from the east , a Sea Captain returning to the west to marry the woman he thinks he loves and his way of dealing with bullies upsets his fiancé who fails to understand his values and always underestimates him . As it turns out , JEAN SIMMONS becomes the real woman for him - - and after many a plot turn he ends up rescuing her from a fate worse than death after she's captured by Ives and his unruly , cowardly son Connors . It's a complex story of an age old feud over water rights that involves , principally , Ives and CHARLES BICKFORD as the headstrong men who are unable to settle a score peacefully even when Peck tries to intervene . It's an epic tale , sprawling and a bit rambling over the course of two hours and forty-five minutes , but Wyler holds it all together for maximum interest , aided and abetted by a wonderful western score by Jerome Moross that has become classic . Peck never had a role that suited him so admirably and CHARLTON HESTON is excellent as Bickford's right hand man with unwanted designs on Carroll Baker . His fist fight with Peck is a classic of its kind . And ALFONSO BEDOYA ( tbe grinning bandit from TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ) as Ramon , the sometimes dull-witted hired help with his halting English , is excellent . Summing up : A sturdy but overblown western with a classic score , full of strong performances by an expert cast .
Stephen King's story works even better on film . . .	KATHY BATES is the title character , an aging woman from a fishing village in Maine with a dark past and a daughter ( JENNIFER JASON LEIGH ) with whom she shares a dark secret . It's based on a Stephen King novel that has been fleshed out with deeper characterizations , some excellent vistas of New England providing realistic atmosphere , and a satisfying conclusion to a dark tale . Bates and Leigh ( as the far away daughter Selena who returns to help her mother through tough legal problems when her mother is accused of a crime ) , are excellent , and all of their scenes together have a ring of truth . The supporting roles too are in the capable hands of actors like CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER ( as a detective who is convinced of Claiborne's guilt ) and David STRATHAIRN as Joe St . George , Bates ' abusive alcoholic husband . Just as Grace Metalious ' PEYTON PLACE was transferred to the screen from a rather trashy novel and improved considerably by a more tastefully written screenplay , this Stephen King story benefits from the expansion of character and development as a psychological tale of an abused wife and daughter . KATHY BATES gives one of her most heartfelt performances as the victimized woman suspected of murder . Well worth watching and the authentic Maine atmosphere adds considerably to the flavor of a good story .
Gothic elegance and grandeur with ravishing John Williams score . . .	Anyone who thinks that this sort of Gothic horror can only be done best in B & W hasn't seen Dracula with Frank Langella in the title role and Sir Laurence Olivier as Van Helsing . It starts with a well-staged storm at sea , accompanied by some of John Williams ' most bombastic music , before settling down to become the familiar story we all know from Bram Stoker's classic tale . FRANK LANGELLA repeats his successful stage role as Dracula , a more romantic and soulful version of the vampire than movie fans were accustomed to seeing . But this is a boldly erotic take on the story with nary a fang in sight - - and yet , the horror is maintained through the uneasiness that stirs whenever that foreboding score tells us something evil is about to happen . LAURENCE OLIVIER is less successful as Van Helsing , looking a bit frail and lacking the strength the character should show . Presumably , he was not in the best of health during filming , and it shows . The film has been mounted with lavish care but the other performances are rather standard except for Langella , and the ending is an ambiguous one . We see Dracula's cape rising from the ruins , floating upward toward the sky and leaving the distinct impression that the studio was thinking of sequels for their legendary vampire . Summing up : Worth a look if only to catch Langella's interpretation of the role and to hear John Williams ' exceptional score .
Semi-documentary style and authentic locations gives the film a gritty look . . .	CALL NORTHSIDE 777 is a fascinating semi-documentary filmed in realistic style by Henry Hathaway and featuring a fine central performance by JAMES STEWART , as a newspaper reporter anxious to prove that an innocent man is still serving time for a crime he never committed . Others in the cast do their standard good work , including RICHARD CONTE as the wrongly convicted man , LEE J . COBB as a newspaper editor and E . G . MARSHALL . But most of the supporting players are no-names who give an authentic feel to all the minor roles , as does the fact that the film uses actual Chicago locations which gives the whole story an added flavor of realism . Although the ending should come as no surprise to anyone aware that justice will be done , getting the solution to an eleven-year old murder is what counts here . The manner of police detection may have changed considerably since the late ' 40s , but the film is a timeless example of corruption exposed and a man's brave efforts to exonerate an innocent man . Well worth watching .
Very funny , cleverly written story gives Matthau and May great roles . . .	A NEW LEAF is so consistently side-splittingly funny that it always puzzles me that Elaine May sought an injunction from Paramount when they released the film and it opened at Radio City Music Hall . She was fighting them to take her name off the film up until the last minute because she said it was not her version . Well , I never did see the Director's Cut of this movie , but I can tell you that A NEW LEAF is one of the funniest films of its kind I've ever seen in a memory that goes back to Charlie Chaplan's 1947 masterpiece , MONSIEUR VERDOUX about a serial murderer of rich wives . If Miss May's version seems more like a series of TV blackout sketches , that may be due to the fact that she and Mike Nichols wrote some of the best comedy sketches to ever appear in that medium . Here the joke is extended for an hour and forty-two minutes as Matthau attempts to find a suitably rich wife that will enable him to resume his life as a wealthy man - - without her . It's so full of wonderful comic moments involving him and the clumsy , near-sighted botanist ( Elaine May ) who falls deeply in love with him and , in the end , makes him a better man . Their scenes together are matchless for pure comedy technique with every line uttered with such complete mastery of the art . Summing up : A barrel of laughs .
A narrow focus vs . a wider horizon . . .	Some will call it the strength of the film - - the fact that it deals almost exclusively with two of the trapped police officers beneath the rubble rather than giving us a broader view of the tragic event . Others will lament the fact that it never widens its horizons to show us a more complete picture . Whatever , Oliver Stone has done a commendable job with what he has chosen to show - - but leaving me with the feeling that I , personally , would have preferred a wider horizon of events . Instead he has chosen to tell the story while the men are trapped by going back and forth from the rescue scene to their worried families . It must be said that all of the dialog for these family scenes is completely natural and never seems forced or over sentimentalized . He has chosen not to show the actual footage of planes hitting the building at the start of the film - - except for a background shot of TV footage - - and the only time we are even reminded that planes did this damage is when we see a shadow of a plane against a skyscraper shortly before the first tower is hit . I think it's a mistake not to have shown this important footage as a prelude to his story . Of course , the dialog ( which shows how much better communication should have been between police officers ) , does mention planes from time to time , so it's hard to understand just why Stone chose to blunt the visual impact this would have had at the opening of his film . Instead , he confines all of his coverage to the rescue efforts of two very heroic survivors who manage to keep each other alert under perilous circumstances . Since the two men are played in a totally real and sympathetic manner by NICOLAS CAGE and MICHAEL PENA , it is especially hard to witness their struggle to stay alive as even more dangerous rubble falls around them , making them even more vulnerable and helplessly trapped amid new explosions . All of the technical factors are excellent with regard to the realism of the war zone damage ( before it was called a war ) , but strangely missing from the ground damage is the white ash that covered so many who ran from the huge clouds of smoke and debris . Only huge amounts of paper are strewn about , as though the ash never existed . This is the one technical blunder I found almost unforgivable . The women are competent , nothing more , as played by MARIA BELLO ( as Cage's wife ) and MAGGIE GYLLENHAAL as Pena's pregnant spouse . The emotional investment in the story depends entirely on the performances of Cage and Pena and they don't disappoint . Both are extremely real and affecting in difficult roles that limit their physicality due to being caught beneath the tower's rubble . Perhaps it's time for this to be seen for what it really is - - a good reminder of the enemy we faced that day and still do - - without politicizing the event the way we might expect Stone to do . And since most Americans seem to have short memories , it's a good thing Stone made this film when he did , memorializing the start of a new kind of war that began five years ago on .
Lean's wonderful follow-up to " Great Expectations " . . .	After the experience of seeing GREAT EXPECTATIONS on the big screen , I looked forward to what David Lean would do with OLIVER TWIST . I wasn't disappointed - - it's possibly the best version of the Dickens tale that I've ever seen with all the Victorian-era darkness and poverty serving as a rich background to a number of interesting Dickensian characters . ALEC GUINNESS has the role of a lifetime as Fagin , the pickpocket thief who keeps his boys on a tight reign . Among the boys - - the very young ANTHONY NEWLEY as The Artful Dodger . But a standout in the film is the central performance of young JOHN HOWARD DAVIES - - he's a brilliant choice to play the underfed boy in the poorhouse " who wanted more " and is eventually reunited with Mr . Brownlow ( the wonderful HENRY STEPHENSON ) for a happy ending . Later musicalized and called OLIVER ! , it's hard to watch the film today without recalling where the musical numbers were inserted and almost expecting them to break out in song . But the bleak atmosphere of Lean's film about the orphan waif taken in by a gang of thieves is so stark , at times , that it rules out thoughts of musical moments . ROBERT NEWTON makes a picturesque Bill Sykes but is occasionally over the top in his characterization , but KAY WALSH makes a wonderfully compelling Nancy and FRANCIS L . SULLIVAN is wonderful as Mr . Bumble . Summing up : Full display of the art of Guy Green's B & W cinematography to heighten the mood of the drama .
Haunting portrait of an enigmatic beauty . . .	GENE TIERNEY was a girl with sculptured high cheekbones , full lips , a sultry air of glamor and exotic cat-like green eyes . She photographed gorgeously in Technicolor ( as her studio soon found out ) , but it was in a couple of B & W classics that she really made her mark ( LAURA and THE RAZOR'S EDGE ) . She was the girl of everyone's dreams for awhile in the ' 40s , especially after she played the title role in LAURA , a sophisticated film noir co-starring her with tight-lipped detective DANA ANDREWS who seemed to be the perfect partner for her in a film noir sort of mystery . After LAURA , she was the toast of the town and Fox used her in some of her most widely known films - - notably LEAVE HER TO HEAVEN in which her stunning beauty was fittingly captured in Technicolor and she had a role that gave her some acting to do . She received her first and only Oscar nomination , but from then on there were some hard knocks ahead . The story of how an unknown woman with German measles at a military outpost left her barracks in order to see and shake hands with Gene during a personal appearance tour , became fodder for an Agatha Christie story in which the motive for murder was a woman who caused the actress to catch the disease and bear a mentally retarded child . Strange how sometimes art imitates life . That and other unfortunate incidents involving a poor choice of men , gave way to severe mental illness requiring hospitalization and electric shock therapy which obliterated many things from Tierney's mind . Ironically , she was under contract to a studio that almost certainly must have considered her for the leading role in THE SNAKE PIT about a woman with a guilt complex who is committed to a state hospital and undergoes just such treatments . Among the contributors , Oleg Cassini gives perhaps the frankest observations on his wife and his rocky marriage to her during the height of her career . But overall , it's a sad commentary on a woman who was too fragile to face the pressures of a Hollywood career and the fame and responsibilities that went with it , along with the heartbreaking pregnancy that resulted in a severely retarded child for which she felt guilt . Interesting , informative and illuminating study of a movie star who should have had it all - - but is fondly remembered today as one of Hollywood's loveliest legends .
Dark tale of magician rivalry takes many twists and turns . . .	Perhaps there is such a thing as a story taking too many twists and turns , and not all of them credible . That's the major fault of THE PRESTIGE which pits two very ambitious magicians ( HUGH JACKMAN and Christian BALE ) against each other in a manner that hasn't been seen on the screen since Laurence Olivier and Michael Caine played dirty tricks on each other in SLEUTH . But there are other compensations in THE PRESTIGE to make it a worthwhile viewing experience for the serious movie-goer . It captures the look and feel of Victorian England with its beautifully detailed sets , artfully low-key in lighting but teaming with vitality and authentic looking period decor . Then too , the performances are all at a perfect pitch to make it an ensemble cast of acting pros doing their best to keep you guessing until the final shot . MICHAEL CAINE is wonderful in a colorful supporting role as the man who devises some of the ingenious stunts and SCARLETT JOHANSSON makes the most of a rather brief supporting role as a traitorous magician's assistant . And as the scientist who leaves Jackman with one of his most inspired tricks , David BOWIE is excellent as Tesla . But the last fifteen minutes are shrouded in such mystery and some highly doubtful explanations that the conclusion comes as a bit of a letdown after all the build-up to what the viewer can only hope will be a plausible ending . Christopher Nolan does much better with this than he did with MEMENTO , even though the tricky story structure is again likely to add confusion to all the entertaining twists and turns that occur on a regular basis . But overall , it's a very entertaining and puzzling piece of work with sleight of hand magic at every turn .
Probably one of the liveliest , most genial service comedies ever made . . .	Once in awhile MR . ROBERTS creaks a little and shows its stage origins , but most of the time we're so involved in the story of Lt . Roberts who tries to be a moral compass for the bored men aboard a cargo ship that never sees any action during World War II . HENRY FONDA reprises his stage role and does a good , if not inspired job as the title character . But it's really JAMES CAGNEY as the martinet captain who bellows out orders or harsh punishment over loud-speakers , and JACK LEMMON as Ensign Pulver , so afraid of the brash captain that he keeps a low-profile until the final hilarious moment when he does finally confront the man . It's all done in a typical service comedy way , the laughs piled up between some drier moments of stage dialog to establish the characters . Although there's a tendency for the film to drag in spots , overall it's an exuberant version of the hit play . Fonda has done better work in a lot of other films , so it's surprising that he comes across as rather dull in the title role . But that's not too much of a distraction when the brilliant supporting cast carries much of the film . Uneven and a bit too long , it nevertheless delivers a good quota of laughs .
Futuristic science fiction epic is imaginatively staged by Fritz Lang . . .	The first great sci-fi film is still amazing for the sets and special effects - - primitive as they may seem to day's fans - - especially if viewed in the sort of pristine print seen on TCM these days . German expressionism is in full swing from the opening scene of workers reporting for a shift change in the city of the 21st century before switching to the opulent world above where men enjoy a playboy existence devoid of work and concentrating on play . There's such intensity to the surreal images on screen that it defies your ability to turn away - - in other words , director Lang knows how to hook you into the story from the very start . It's not the story that's significant here . The startling special effects and costumes and images of a mechanized society are what capture the attention immediately . The main story has the young man abandoning his life of luxury to join the oppressed workers that he observes caught in a mighty explosion - - and wanting to do something by joining the workers in the depths . Pretty heavy-going at times and the acting is strictly from silent screen technique - - very melodramatic with broad gestures . The plot takes an interesting turn when the inventor is instructed to give the Machine-Man the image of the girl - - whom the manager's son has fallen in love with . The manager is still bitter because his son has joined the oppressed workers . This leads to all sorts of mayhem among the workers climaxing in some of the most astonishing set pieces ever conceived at this time in German film-making . An extraordinary viewing experience , original in concept and dazzling in execution . A memorable performance by BRIGITTE HELM , especially as the mechanized Maria .
The first and one of the best of the James Bond films . . .	A good story , eloquent settings , gorgeous photography , Calypso music in the background , Jamaican seaports and fancy hideaways , exotic spies and SEAM CONNERY in his first stab at the James Bond role in DR . NO . It's a good hour-and-a-half before we meet the clever Dr . No . ( JOSEPH WISEMAN ) and the palatial splendor for his guests - - Sean Connery and URSULA ANDRESS , who accompanies Bond on his island adventures . There are the usual bad guys who want to destroy a rocket launch and it's up to Bond to thwart their plans . Unlike so many other Bond adventures , DR . NO moves swiftly forward without the plot ever getting too complicated - - as it does in many a spy story by Ian Fleming and others . The simplistic approach lets the viewer enjoy the interaction between some believable characters for a change . ANTHONY DAWSON is excellent as one of Dr . No's henchmen asked to kill Bond with a tarantula . After the failed mission , Bond is able to pay Dr . No an unexpected visit . There's never any doubt that Connery and Andress will wind up together for a happy finale , but the suspense all the way through is well maintained under Terence Young's crisp direction . JACK LORD is certainly wasted in a minor role . Absolutely one of the best Bond films and a good start for the series .
Spidey still spins a mean web . . . but the romance is wearing thin . . .	First of all , let me say that the romantic angle is played up more so in SPIDER-MAN 3 than it was in the other Spider-Man films , which is a distinct handicap for what is primarily an action film based on the famous comic book characters . It seems to drag noticeably in all of the quietly played scenes between TOBEY MAGUIRE and KIRSTEN DUNST , as his girlfriend May Jane whose singing career is stung by bad reviews . Then too , the scenes with ROSEMARY HARRIS , a warm and engaging actress , add to the almost soap opera flavor of the script in dealing with Spidey's human side . But fortunately , there are enough humorous moments to atone for some of the script's shortcomings in this regard . BRUCE CAMPBELL as a French Maitre d ' has a wonderful bit at the restaurant where Spidey is preparing to meet and propose to Mary Jane with a ring . And even bigger bits of humor are provided by J . K . SIMMONS as J . Jonah Jameson , the harried boss of the Daily Bugle , notably in his wonderful office scene where a diligent secretary has a novel way of reminding him to take his blood pressure pills . He's a welcome scene-stealing presence in any scene . There's plenty of villainy going on in the guise of three chaps bent on destroying Spider-Man , the best of which is THOMAS HADEN CHURCH as the ex-convict who gets caught up in an experiment that turns him into the Sandman creature that terrorizes New York City . His transformation scenes are brilliantly done with the CGI effects outdoing themselves . He has that tough guy persona that looks just right for the role . But the best written part for one of the three villains belongs to JAMES FRANCO who is able to convey much more of what makes Goblin II tick . He switches from affable to intense hatred with the greatest of ease and gets a lot out of the character he's playing . Not as well scripted , but easily among the best performers in the film , is TOPHER GRACE , arrogant rival photographer at the Daily Bugle , who does a fine job as a Spider-Man adversary when he turns into Venom . Unfortunately , this comes pretty late in the film ( almost as an afterthought by the writers ) and he doesn't get enough time on screen to flesh out the character which would have been one of the most interesting villains if time permitted . As it is , it all runs well over two hours and stays on a pretty smooth course throughout , for such a long film . Except for the lulls whenever Spidey deals with his romantic complications , it's a pretty fast-moving story that has some eye-filling special effects whenever things get too dull in the storytelling department . TOBEY MAGUIRE certainly gets a chance to stretch . When his darker side takes over ( and he's wearing that black suit ) , he shows a side of his screen personality that's been hidden in all the other Spider-Man films , and his arrogance with dance moves - - while staying in character with his nerdy side - - are played for laughs which are intentional . BRYCE DALLAS HOWARD makes a suitable cliff-hanging sort of heroine who can scream as well as Fay Wray ( the Queen of Scream ) , and THERESA RUSSELL stands out in her one brief scene as Mrs . Marko . I thoroughly enjoyed it as a blockbuster movie designed to entertain and thrill as only these Spider-Man movies can . The CGI is remarkable for the Sandman sequences , all the production values are first class and Christopher Young's background score is a decided asset . But , personally , I still think I preferred the other two Spider-Man films over this one .
Smashing action sequences but the gambling scenes are too lengthy . . .	First , let me say that DANIEL CRAIG makes a very believable James Bond and is certainly up to the demands of all the action sequences . What he seems to lack ( in between all the brawls and stunts ) is the sort of charm that characterized Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan when they weren't engaged in stunts . He has piercing blue eyes , a cold look , a nasty temper when aroused and all the other attributes needed for Bond - - but he could work on the charm . Two more minor complaints : I wasn't at all impressed with either of the Bond girls - - each with accents that hindered understanding their words when they whispered - - which was often and neither one a great beauty . And secondly , that theme song under the opening credits added nothing to the credits which were , in themselves , stunning to look at with gorgeous graphic art . The song was a complete throwaway and " you know my name " was about the only phrase I could decipher from the lyrics sung at full blast . Other than that , no complaints except that the gambling scenes went on a little too long - - with some exciting intervals between playing a card game involving millions which Bond had to prevent from going to fund terrorist activities . All of the Bond action scenes were superb , the best of their kind , with realistic beatings and risks being taken at full steam ahead . How anyone managed not to get injured during the making of this film , I'll never understand . Those stunt players ( and Craig himself ) deserve kudos for what they pull off here in the way of action-filled moments . One of the most memorable is the chase up and down construction sites that gets the story off to a flying start . JUDY DENCH does a great job as " M " , giving Bond a tongue-lashing for what she calls his overgrown ego that is stifling his judgment . I've seen better villains in other Bond films and nothing particularly memorable here to make me change my mind - - except that the torture scene is almost unbearable to watch . Overall , it's a stunning Bond action film with just an occasional lag but it manages to hold interest throughout with some choice bits of editing and direction . And DANIEL CRAIG comes through with flying colors except for that one ingredient - - sophisticated charm . He could work on that as he grows into the part .
Fascinating but overwrought performances . . .	SUSAN HAYWARD has some strong , searing scenes full of fireworks in I'LL CRY TOMORROW - - as does JO VAN FLEET as her overbearing stage mother - - but there are times when you just wish Daniel Mann would keep the theatrical melodramatics a bit more under his control . The story of a confessed alcoholic singer is an unpleasant one and this is all the more reason why a little soft pedaling now and then would have helped . As it is , Mann has chosen to pull out all the stops and give us a saga of grim and unrelieved suffering for too lengthy a time . All of the performances are respectable enough - - including EDDIE ALBERT and MARGO as a couple who try to help the alcohol addicted Roth back on her feet again after an attempt at suicide forces her to go to the AA clinic . And Hayward does well by the songs that Roth supposedly performed in nightclubs , using her own voice and gestures she undoubtedly picked up from Jane Froman , whose biography she also did on screen a bit earlier . A toning down of the shrill melodramatics would have helped - - but , nevertheless , this is a frank and disturbing portrait of a woman on the skids and Miss Hayward does her best to give a convincing portrait .
Saw the original broadcast . . . and now it's a nostalgic view of early TV . . .	In reviewing this , I've taken into consideration that this was done live back in 1957 , when the world and I were much younger , and live television was much more primitive . Still , it's fascinating to view it again and see it from a different perspective . And yet , one can't help thinking how much technology has improved since then ! The B & W print shown on PBS tonight was a rather murky one , so I'm basing all my comments on the perception that the soundtrack was wonderful but the video left much to be desired . Of course , 21 year-old Julie Andrews ( rather matronly looking due to hairdo and make-up ) , has the right singing range to do justice to the songs and Jon Cypher keeps up with her in that department . Kaye Ballard and Alice Ghostly are fun as the two step-sisters , absurd as their characterizations are , and Ilka Chase makes an acceptable step-mother , though not quite as wicked as one could wish for . The score is full of wonderful melodies in typical R & H style , particularly the lilting waltz amid such songs as " Ten Minutes Ago " and " Do I Love You Because You're Beautiful ? " . Julie does a particularly nice rendition of " In My Own Little Corner " while Edie Adams has fun making the most of her role as the Fairy Godmother . But on the debit side is the video quality and the obviously budgeted stage sets and uninspired costuming ( especially for the ball ) . They look rather bland in B & W . Perhaps when originally telecast in color ( a factor I don't recall at this point ) , the sets and costumes had more of a glow . But as Julie Andrews says , in interviews that come on at intervals , it was a wonder the whole thing was done live in one take . This is a lot easier on the ears than the later versions and includes an amusing number between King and Queen ( preparing for the banquet ) that was cut from both of the later productions . And while the later versions had more glamor and color , this is the one to watch for complete enjoyment of the score and justice to the songs performed by Julie Andrews and the rest of the cast . What an honor for Julie Andrews - - to have a television musical written expressly for her by two of the master musicians of the 20th century , Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein . Their music has all the charm one could ask for in a production of this kind .
Absorbing western tale with spectacular Wyoming scenery and good cast . . .	JUBAL takes about forty-five minutes to set up its tale of revenge and murder and lust in the dust , but once the plot gets into high gear it becomes highly watchable until the conclusion . GLENN FORD is an unhappy man on the run who's taken in by rancher ERNEST BORGNINE and his wife VALERIE FRENCH , earning his pay as a helper and suddenly promoted to foreman , much to the annoyance of ROD STEIGER , who wanted the job and also has his eyes on Borgnine's wife . Ford spends most of the story trying to fend off the advances of Valerie French , who turns out to be a real Jezebel creating trouble between Ford and Borgnine when she makes her hubby believe the lies that jealous Steiger has told him . Before you know it , Ford is in deep trouble with nowhere to run except to seek the help of some peace loving pioneers on a wagon train , and a woman ( FELICIA FARR ) who wants to help him fight injustice . Delmer Daves directs the actors through their paces with skill , except that he allows ROD STEIGER to chew too much of the scenery . Steiger struts about as if he's still playing Jud in OKLAHOMA ! and never lets up for a moment being a nasty , snarling , cowardly villain . He's so despicable you can't help hating him . On the other hand , CHARLES BRONSON shows considerable skill as Ford's friend , a gunslinger who saves Ford's life at a crucial moment . The film starts off a little too slowly before it gets to the mid-section where things really start to heat up . From then on , it's a top-rate western with strong performances from most of the cast . Borgnine may be playing a " nice guy " for a change , but he's still obnoxious and boorish in his behavior and he sometimes overdoes the hearty laughter . His admission that he knows nothing about women or how to treat them , reminds me that " Marty " had the same problem . Summing up : Good western , excellent photography , nice scenery and one of Glenn Ford's most underrated performances .
Taut suspense . . . Lancaster's thriller never runs out of steam . . .	THE TRAIN delivers a taut suspense tale that could have been told in less than the two hours and thirteen minutes it takes to expand on an incident wherein French railroad engineers did their part in halting some of the German plans during the occupation . It takes place during World War II in 1944 , shortly before the allies liberated France . It's a grim story of stubborn Germans and an overreaching Col . Von Waldheim ( PAUL SCOFIELD ) who is impressed enough with the priceless art inhabiting a French museum to want to take it out of Paris by train to Germany . The story involves a group of French resistance workers , headed by Paul Labiche ( BURT LANCASTER ) , who scheme ways to delay the train until the allies show up , so they can keep it out of German hands . The gritty B & W photography seems to suit the tale , although it might have been just as effective in vivid color . At any rate , it gets most of its realism from the effective performances of the entire cast , turning the drama into a gripping movie that holds the attention all the way through , with only a couple of lags . JEANNE MOREAU makes a nice cameo appearance as Christine , a hotel clerk who helps Lancaster out of some tight spots by giving him an alibi , and all the supporting players do a fine job . Directed by John Frankenheimer , it could have been tightened to a shorter running time , although it barely ever runs out of steam . For train watchers , it's a fanatic's delight . Whenever I watch the film I think of a landlord my family had many years ago who used to take home movies of trains moving along the tracks at varying speeds or into tunnels , etc . I'm sure anyone with this sort of hobby would find the film fascinating from start to finish . Lancaster puts his athletic prowess to good use , doing his own stunts , and Scofield is impressive as the German officer .
Delightful comedy at a boy's military school gives Heston a change of pace . . .	Before CHARLTON HESTON parted the Red Sea as Moses , he took time out to work on a delightfully original little comedy called THE PRIVATE WAR OF MAJOR BENSON , nicely photographed at St . Catherine's Military Academy in Anaheim , California , and giving Heston one of his rare comedy roles . He's a good sport about doing this sort of thing , a step down from the heavy dramatics usually assigned him , but he's no Cary Grant or James Stewart when it comes to comedy finesse . You can see him struggling to put some comic charm into certain moments , but he's only half successful . Others around him have a surer way with this kind of material . JULIA ADAMS is attractive , warm and easy in a role that involves a romance with Heston after a few squabbles over just how tough he should or shouldn't be with the young cadets . TIM HOVEY is a little scene-stealer as the youngest , who tries to win Adams ' attention all the time by making numerous trips to the infirmary where she's the head doctor . And NANA BRYANT as Mother Superior and WILLIAM DEMAREST as a crusty handyman , add their professionalism to the pleasant cast , as does SAL MINEO as one of the more earnest cadets . Nominated for Best Original Screenplay , it's a predictable yarn but the writing is well crafted ( the authors wrote " Leave It To Beaver " for TV ) , and the story is fresh and interesting even though the happy ending is telegraphed long before the final credits . Summing up : Enjoyable and fun to watch Heston tackle a comedy role so earnestly , if not with the ease of a Grant or Stewart . At times , it's like watching the bull in a china shop .
Rugged western deserves more attention . . .	CHARLTON HESTON steps away from his " Moses " and " Ben Hur " characterizations to give a solid performance as a Montana cowhand who gives shelter to a woman and her boy in his log cabin during a snowy Montana winter . Visually , the film is a standout with gorgeous vistas of snowy landscapes and the chill of winter felt inside the cabin as the man and woman gradually fall in love . JOAN HACKETT is fine as the strong-hearted woman with the boy clinging to her , left behind by her husband and glad for some company when Heston lets them stay with him . But , of course , we have to have the villains and there are several - - BRUCE DERN and MATT CLARK are the bad boy sons of " Preacher Quint " ( DONALD PLEASENCE ) , who plays his role with maniacal glee and an evil squint in his eyes . The plot pits Heston , the woman and the boy against these intruders intent on holding them hostage while his sons have their way with Hackett . CHARLTON HESTON and JOAN HACKETT both give strong , believable performances under Tom Gries ' direction - - and I understand Heston considers it one of his favorite roles . LEE MAJORS , BEN JOHNSON and SLIM PICKENS round out the supporting cast . The climactic scenes have the sort of resolution that reminds one of SHANE , another great western about a loner who decides he has to be true to his own nature , leaving the story without the usual conventional Hollywood ending . Well worth watching .
Star-studded even elevated by presence of Olivia de Havilland . . .	Despite the muted tone of the 75th Academy Awards , there were some outstanding moments and here are a few of the observations I care to make on the whole affair : 1 ) Adding not a bit of class to the televised event was CAMERON DIAZ , busily chewing gum and staring vacantly at some of the old-time presenters , as though she either didn't recognize them or didn't appreciate that they were a part of film history ; 2 ) ADRIEN BRODY giving a genuinely heart-felt acceptance speech , including the surprisingly passionate kiss for Halle Berry ! Talk about taking advantage of a situation , but at least he was honest about it ; 3 ) MICHAEL MOORE making a complete jackass of himself by taking the stage to receive an award ( for a non-documentary , by the way ) , and then erupting into a tirade against President Bush and the war that was greeted at first with abashed silence and then a round of well-deserved boos from the overwhelmingly liberal Hollywood crowd ; 4 ) OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND receiving a standing ovation and still radiating good health and classic loveliness even with silver-white hair as she presented 59 of the past winners . Among the missing : ELIZABETH TAYLOR , which was just as well considering her diamonds would have weighed her down , even if she was sitting in a wheelchair , and would have called for even more of a bodyguard atmosphere than usual ; 5 ) Among those who didn't look so well ( some even shockingly bad ) , were KARL MALDEN , JENNIFER JONES ( who looked like a wax figure ) , TERESA WRIGHT , GEORGE CHAKIRIS ( another wax figure ) , KIRK DOUGLAS , DUSTIN Hoffman , PATRICIA NEAL and CLIFF ROBERTSON . Although it was good to see a stage full of former winners , one couldn't help noticing how few of them resembled their former selves on screen . STEVE MARTIN did an okay job as presenter , easily rebuffing Michael Moore with a clever comeback line about the Mafia , but unfortunately veering into tasteless territory with his jokes about MICKEY ROONEY's age or the sexual ambiguities of stars like JACK NICHOLSON and others . I was especially impresssed with one of de Havilland's comments after observing that much had changed since the earlier times . " What hasn't changed , " she said , in her gentle tone , " is our love of the movies . They inspire us and help us through troubled times . " She's done so many Oscar shows as presenter ( not to mention winner ) and is always a reminder of how classy Hollywood performers used to be .
Big , stylish period gangster film has great performance by Beatty . . .	Just when I thought James Cagney's " top of the world , ma ! " performance in WHITE HEAT was the definitive portrait of a psychopathic hood , along comes BUGSY with Warren Beatty as an even more insane , over-the-top hoodlum just as cold blooded ( possibly more so ) than Cagney's Cody Jarrett . Beatty is just as menacing and handy with a gun as Cagney ever was , and what's more he's got a great script to back him up . I'm not and never have been a Beatty fan , but if the man had to win an Oscar for anything , I'd say give it to him for BUGSY , the nickname Benjamin Siegel hated anyone to use . How true all the details are I don't know . I'll have to do a background check on Bugsy when I finish this review , but the movie is filled with what appears to be accurate period detail throughout with some great sets and art direction . Ironically , it only received a couple of honors in the technical categories although honored with many nominations . ANNETTE BENING matches Beatty every step of the way with a mesmerizing performance as Virginia Hill , the woman he has a huge obsession for . The jealousy angle is played up with some vivid scenes between Beatty and Bening that director Barry Levinson controls with just the right amount of passion . BEN KINGSLEY , ELLIOT GOULD ( quite effective in an overlooked role as an ill-fated dumb gangster ) and HARVEY KEITEL all stand out in solid supporting roles . So does JOE MANTEGNA ( as George Raft ) , playing his role with smooth style reminiscent of Raft - - and in one of the film's more interesting moments seen doing a scene from " Manpower " with an actress impersonating Marlene Dietrich . The use of ' 40s background music ( " Accentuate the Positive " and many others ) is especially well handled and sets the mood for a number of montages and glimpses of the Las Vegas scene during that period . Whether or not Beatty got his inspiration for building a gambling casino in the middle of the desert is accurate or not , the story is a gripping one , taking unexpected twists and turns as it moves toward its grim conclusion . Summing up : Overtaken at the Oscars by " Silence of the Lambs , " it's a film well worth seeking out if you missed it the first time , as I did .
The last word in film noir seduction . . .	I wasn't expecting anything quite as riveting as this ' 96 film that reminds me of the sort of femme fatale story Hollywood loved to show us in the ' 40s ( DOUBLE INDEMNITY , POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE ) where a devious female takes charge of the plot . Must be the performance of LINDA FIORENTINO that made me sit up and watch the whole story with edge of the seat interest . Afterwards , I realized what Leonard Maltin meant when he said she " makes Barbara Stanwyck in Double Indemnity look like Snow White ! " Indeed , her character is so evil , so manipulative , so cunning that she's almost a caricature like Cruella deVille . And yet , within the context of this story , Fiorentino makes us believe every word and gesture of the seductress she's playing . The weakness comes in the decision by the screenwriter to make all of the men complete fools bowled over by her sexual allure . Most naive of all is PETER BERG who plays the country boy with natural openness , but his willingness to be trampled upon by sultry Linda to a point that's beyond reason , just doesn't add up . Nor is BILL PULLMAN much brighter in a rather enjoyably played subordinate role . The plot gets so complicated after awhile that the momentum seems to run out of steam until the last twenty minutes . Then it picks up again but unfortunately , the final scene is a little too abrupt for my taste . Released to cable TV rather than theaters , it's a minor gem well worth watching for Fiorentino's performance alone .
Donald enjoys outdoor picnic until the bees show up . . .	A better than usual DONALD DUCK short , TEA FOR TWO HUNDRED was nominated for a Best Short Subject Oscar back in ' 48 , and it's full of clever plot ideas and good animation . An army of bees resides near Donald's picnic tent and are soon in evidence when he spots them marching along toward their hives . He decides to play a prank on them and the battle of the bees begins . They not only invade his picnic basket , but an army of them manage to carry him while he naps and toss him off a high ledge to the water below . He awakens , anxious to get his revenge . Clever and fast moving , the bees are ingenious and Donald only gets more and more vexation from having to deal with them . His final decision to use dynamite on one of the hives only backfires with him landing in the water again . Typical Donald cartoon makes clever use of images and Oliver Wallace's native music for the bees is an original touch .
The murky world of CIA deception as seen by one family man . . .	Before I go on to praise the good points of THE GOOD SHEPHERD , I should mention at the start that the film badly needed some judicious editing . There are many scenes that go on for too long a time and are badly in need of some artful editing to get the point across just as well . Aside from length , everything else about the film is on the plus side - - the handsome cinematography , the vast amount of settings , the background score that adds to the drama , and the performances of the entire cast which are uniformly good . I'm not a great admirer of ANGELINA JOLIE as an actress , but here I think she demonstrated skill at suggesting the loneliness , frustrations and jealousies of a woman whose life has to remain outside the boundaries of her husband's job with the CIA . Through a series of detailed vignettes , the murky world of an agent's life of deception within the government is sharply observed . More of a character study of Edward Wilson ( played in stolid , very serious fashion by MATT DAMON ) than a straightforward spy yarn , it manages to hold the interest even though it uses the flashback method of storytelling that is apt to confuse a viewer if it isn't done well . But here again , there is a flaw - - it covers a span of twenty or more years but the aging of the central character is never quite convincing enough . Damon never looks that much older than his grown son - - whereas a few gray hairs might have helped considerably . As his grown son , EDDIE REDMAYNE does reasonably well as the man seeking his father's approval . As for the supporting players in this story about one man's experiences in the newly developing CIA , JOHN TURTURRO does an outstanding job as a tough inquisitor and MICHAEL GAMBON is outstanding as a security risk with homosexual tendencies . ALEC BALDWIN has little to do but is intense enough as one of the agency's top men and others in the cast maintain credibility all the way through . The story itself is rather problematic in that nothing is what it seems and not all the information is readily given to the viewer in a way that makes sense . This is partly the fault of the script and partly the fault of director Robert De Niro who also assumes a small role effectively . But still , despite the handicap of being too long ( and a bit too involved at certain points ) , it makes for fascinating viewing and is the kind of film you dare not divert your attention from for a moment . If you do , you are liable to miss an essential plot point . Summing up : Highly recommended for anyone with a keen interest in espionage dramas .
Delightful screwball comedy with Sturges at his best . . .	JEAN ARTHUR as a down on her luck secretary ( who pays $7 a week for an apartment ) is suddenly blessed with a luxurious hotel suite and a sable coat thanks to the whims of fate in this delightful ' 30s-era comedy co-starring EDWARD ARNOLD ( a bit too bombastic for my taste ) and RAY MILLAND ( charming and debonair as the romantic lead ) . Arthur has never been more personable and inhabits her role with a good deal of personal charm and warmth , perhaps attributable to director Mitchel Leisen who always seems to coax good performances from his female stars . ( Claudette Colbert in " Midnight " , Carole Lombard in " Hands Across the Table " , Olivia de Havilland in " Hold Back the Dawn " and " To Each His Own " , Barbara Stanwyck in " No Man of Her Own " . ) Arnold is a hot tempered man who throws a fur coat over the rooftop during an argument with his frivolous wife ( MARY NASH ) , a coat that lands on top of Jean Arthur , riding in a double-decker bus in New York City . The plot thickens when a hotel owner ( LUIS ALBERNI ) facing bankrupt with his fancy but vacant building , decides that Arthur will be the perfect publicity gimmick since he believes she was given the coat because of an affair with Arnold . He allows her to reside in a luxurious suite ( Leisen goes a bit overboard on set decoration here ) , and therein the fun begins . Seems he has a rich playboy son who is just as down on his luck as Arthur is and is working in an automat , the kind of fast food restaurant that existed in NYC during the ' 30s and ' 40s . In fact , the automat scene , where Milland finds a way to give Arthur a free meal , is expertly staged with every pratfall so perfectly executed that it remains the highlight of the film . But even after this highlight , the film never lets up in pace and is irresistible entertainment for fans of screwball comedy . Among the standouts in the supporting cast are FRANKLIN PANGBORN and WILLIAM DEMAREST , actors director Leisen would use to great effect in other comedies . Edward Arnold tends to overact the part of the wealthy hot-tempered tycoon , but everyone else has a fine time with the witty lines and situations . Highly recommended , brisk and very amusing , with Arthur in one of her most appealing roles .
Not your standard western fare . . . more of a noir western . . .	KIRK DOUGLAS finds trouble wherever he goes in LONELY ARE THE BRAVbeaten up by a one-armed man in a bar fight , confronting police officers with his fists , landing in jail , escaping and finding himself taking a beating from tough jailer GEORGE KENNEDY . He takes time out for some sweet talk with GENA ROWLANDS ( her debut ) , before getting on horseback and evading his pursuers . That's where the brutal punishment continues - - as he takes his horse into the high country among rugged hillsides and winding paths along cliffs to avoid the posse of police cars and helicopters looking for him . The movie ends on a grim note when truck driver CARROLL O'CONNOR meets up with horse and rider on a dark rainy night . There's a turnabout at the end where WALTER MATTHAU , relentlessly hunting him up until that point , decides not to identify him for the authorities - - figuring he's had punishment enough by this time . So has the audience . But it's a fascinating glimpse at the troublesome life of a stubborn cowboy who railed against all the rules of life . Trivia note : Understandably , KIRK DOUGLAS considers it one of his favorite films .
Sidney Kingsley's play is still stage-bound , but riveting . . .	With William Wyler at the director's helm , Lillian Hellman writing the screenplay , and Richard Day's stage-bound but artful sets , DEAD END has plenty of fine ingredients going for it . And the cast is great - - JOEL McCREA , SYLVIA SYDNEY , WENDY BARRIE , HUMPHREY BOGART , CLAIRE TREVOR , MARJORIE MAIN , ALLEN JENKINS and WARD BOND , as well as " The Dead End Kids " themselves . Interestingly , the usually comic Main and Jenkins have straight dramatic roles here . The image of a luxury apartment building adjoining a slum area in the Lower East Side is strikingly presented and makes for the conflict in a story where poverty breeds crime and the rich have to suffer for it . Joel McCrea is the idealistic architect who'd like to eliminate the slums , Sylvia Sydney is a poor shop girl limited by her meager surroundings , and Wendy Barrie is a wealthy society girl . The story is more a series of vignettes than a well-constructed story , but interest is held with forceful scenes directed well by William Wyler , who was always able to get the best from his cast and crew . Claire Trevor makes the most of a brief role as a prostitute , a warm-up for a similar role in STAGECOACH - - and deserved her Oscar nomination . Dated in some respects , it's a well-written play that Kingsley wrote and it still has the power to command interest even though much of it borders too much on melodrama .
World War II never looked so authentic . . .	THE LONGEST DAY is an expensive World War II epic that leaves you with the feeling that you know what D-day , the 6th of June was really like for American soldiers . On the other hand , it leaves you with the feeling that somewhere around the bend another great movie star or film personality is about to make another appearance . It's this disparity between truth and Hollywoodized fiction that struggles constantly to win your attention as you watch what is actually a very realistic depiction of what it must have been like during that fateful day when America lost so many of its splendid soldiers on the field of battle . It's a film that opts for realism , whether it's telling the story from the American point of view or the German - - never sugarcoating any of the sequences but presenting the fateful day in an almost documentary fashion with the kind of realism and attention to detail that is awe inspiring . Suffice it to say that all of the names fit perfectly into the scheme of things , never giving the impression that the director chose them at random for star value . Whether English , German or French , all of the roles are beautifully played . With the Fuhrer having taken a " sleeping pill " , the German commanders realize they are losing the war . Unfortunately , it's such an epic film that it doesn't give you a chance to identify with any of the characters to the extent that you can care what becomes of them . That , indeed , is the film's major flaw . Truthfully , while all of the invasion sequences are extremely well staged for maximum effect , what's distracting is when the viewer's attention strays from the story upon seeing name players pop up unexpectedly in the midst of explosive action . Just a few of the names come readily to mind : JOHN WAYNE , PETER LAWFORD , RODDY McDOWELL , SEAN CONNERY , ROBERT MITCHUM , RED BUTTONS , HENRY FONDA , ROBERT RYAN , ROD STEIGER , RICHARD BEYMER and others . Fox seemed intent on using just about every male star in the business to fill the huge number of speaking roles . Summing up : If World War II war films about D-Day , the 6th of June , are of interest to you , THE LONGEST DAY , from a novel by Cornelius Ryan , is an essential , not to be missed , in all of its B & W glory .
Chaplin's comic timing is amazing in the brick worker sequence . . .	Altogether amazing little short with the comic at his best as a brick layer who is late on the job and presents a flower to his monstrous boss ( MACK SWAIN ) . Swain looks so much like Billy Gilbert that I thought that's who it was at first . Swain orders him immediately to work and the fun starts . A particularly amusing lunch hour sequence is full of sight gags requiring perfect timing . Charlie gets paid , then has to deal with an overbearing wife who sleeps with a rolling pin in her arms , ready to pounce on him when he doesn't come home from work on time . Instead , he's at the local pub having a night out with the other workers . The pub sequence leads to other amusing sight gags as he and a fellow worker struggle to get out of the rain and onto a streetcar . No wonder Chaplin considers this one his favorite silent short . Again , Edna Purviance has little to do but it hardly matters . It's Chaplin's limelight and that's all audiences wanted . All of the stunts are exhibited in perfect timing and are the mark of genius .
Dated political thriller is still stunning to watch . . .	An eerie fact is that a film dealing with the assassination of a presidential candidate came out just shortly before the real-life assassination of President John F . Kennedy . LAURENCE HARVEY always had a rather sleep-walker kind of expression on his unlined face and here it serves him well as a man who has been hypnotized ( brainwashed is a better word ) into believing that he must kill the next presidential candidate of the U . S . because his mama wants him to . Mama is ANGELA LANSBURY , in probably the wickedest role of her long career . She soothingly explains to the transfixed Harvey exactly at what point during the ceremony he must take aim at his target - - and kill . It's the most chilling scene in the movie , except for the finale which is really spellbinding , as it takes place in a crowded Madison Square Garden with FRANK SINATRA hot on the trail of the would-be killer . Sinatra's almost immediate discovery is what throws reality off a bit at this point . He sees a pinpoint of light in the far distance and knows exactly which stairway , which exit , which floor to go to in a matter of seconds . Well , it's called taking dramatic license for the sake of art , I suppose . All in all , a very chilling reminder of the time Americans were living through in the McCarthy era , only occasionally flawed by distracting things like the love interest for Sinatra ( JANET LEIGH ) in a totally unnecessary sub-plot that does nothing to further the action . John Frankenheimer gets every ounce of suspense out of pivotal scenes and you'll find yourself on the edge of your seat as the final scene unfolds . A final word about the performances : ANGELA LANSBURY has never been more mesmerizing .
" When the legend becomes fact , print the legend " . . . nice character-driven tale . . .	A rich assortment of town characters directed in fine style by John Ford makes THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE one of his most entertaining western tales . It's the saga of a tenderfoot from the east ( JAMES STEWART ) who gets some rough treatment from the town's legendary villain , Liberty Valance ( LEE MARVIN ) , and is determined to rid the town of the outlaw by establishing himself in a law office , since he's an attorney from out of town . JEANETTE NOLAN , JOHN QUALEN , WOODY STRODE , EDMOND O'BRIEN , ANDY DEVINE and last but not least , JOHN WAYNE , make up the townspeople who don't think anyone but a gunslinger can take on Valance . Stewart disagrees , becomes the town's teacher when he learns most of them are illiterate , and after some humiliating treatment from Liberty Valance , we know that Stewart is going to have to resolve the problem somehow . Ford makes the most of a wonderful cast and a story that hooks interest from the opening shot . There's lots of rough humor in typical Ford fashion and John Wayne gets to deliver some priceless wisecracks in his own inimitable style . Andy Devine is sometimes over-the-top as a cowardly marshall and Edmond O'Brien chews the scenery as the town's newspaper editor , but Vera Miles , Jeanette Nolan and others are excellent in supporting roles . It's an above average story , told in flashback , and Ford turns it into one of his most character driven films with some perfect casting in all of the major roles . Summing up : A western morality tale well worth watching . . . but watch out for JOHN CARRADINE . He chews the scenery with even more ferocity than O'Brien .
Fontaine in distress . . . but there are compensations . . .	First of all , in defense of JOAN FONTAINE , it must be said that Ginger Rogers would have been terribly miscast as Alyce , the young British lady who has the title role . Fontaine makes a fetching picture as the heroine here , but her acting inexperience shows badly and her dancing is better left unmentioned . Fortunately , she went on to better things . But here it's FRED ASTAIRE , GEORGE BURNS and GRACIE ALLEN who get the top billing - - and they are excellent . Fans of Burns & Allen will be surprised at how easily they fit into Astaire's dance routines . Especially interesting is the big fun house routine that won choreographer Hermes Pans an Oscar . They join Astaire in what has to be the film's most inventive highlight . Unfortunately , not much can be said for the slow pacing of the story - - nor some of the stale situations which call for a lot of patience from the viewer . It must be said that some of the humor falls flat and the usual romantic misunderstandings that occur in any Fred Astaire film of this period are given conventional treatment . Only the musical interludes give the story the lift it needs . Some pleasant Gershwin tunes pop up once in awhile but not all of them get the treatment they deserve . The nice supporting cast includes Reginald Gardiner , at his best in a polished comic performance as a conniving servant , Constance Collier and Montagu Love ( as Joan's father mistaken as a gardener by Astaire ) . It's a lighthearted romp whenever Burns & Allen are around to remind us how funny they were in their radio and television days . Both of them are surprisingly adept in keeping up with Astaire's footwork . Director George Stevens makes sure that Joan Fontaine's hillside dance number with Fred is filmed at a discreet distance but clever camera-work cannot disguise the fact that she is out of her element as Astaire's dance partner , something she seems painfully aware of .
Early sci-fi movie still delivers the chills . . .	I understand from some of the comments here that the remake of THE THING was much more graphic and detailed than the ' 51 film , but sometimes the power of suggestion is more effective in providing chills than a more literal rendering of them . Such is the case with many of the older films , especially among the science fiction horror genre which were never as explicit as what audiences expect to see today . In that context , THE THING was quite a sensation when it opened in the early fifties , really a low-budget B-film that achieved the kind of popularity usually reserved for costlier studio competition . It had no stars of major fame but it did have an unusual score by Dimitri Tiomkin , a composer who free-lanced and only worked on those films that he wished to write music for . His eerie score adds to the chilling menace of the frozen Arctic landscape where a bunch of scientists discover a frozen shape in the ice . It's an expert blend of science fiction and horror , developing chills from the fact that the scientists have to fight for their lives when " the thing " is accidentally de-thawed . The scene where the ice is gradually melting while the guard has his back turned is still the kind of nightmarish touch that director Howard Hawks milks for all it's worth . While KENNETH TOBEY stars as the main scientist in charge of the expedition , it's JAMES ARNESS who is probably most well known to today's movie-goers for the many westerns he starred in later on . Arness , of course , has the title role but is never seen close enough for his identity to be obvious . This is the sort of science fiction film that became popular around the time of THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL and the original INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS - - and like them , it enjoys cult status as one of the best of those early excursions into the genre . It's slow in building up to the suspense , but worth watching for its overall chilling effect .
Mark Harmon shows his dark side as Ted Bundy . . .	Dark and disturbing as it is , this is still a well worth watching made-for-TV movie ( shown originally in two parts ) that gives MARK HARMON one of his best roles as serial killer Ted Bundy , the charming man who fooled most of the people most of the time while he continued a murder spree that lasted far too long . That's the disturbing thing about the Ted Bundy story . There were many people who suspected him along the way - - at a time when he should definitely have been reported to the authorities - - but he always had luck on his side and managed to escape serious notice or detention until it was much too late . A sobering look at Bundy's exploits as he weaved his way around college campuses in pursuit of any young woman he could fool into entrapment . Based on true incidents , it's a dark story that is told without showing the amount of gore involved - - which may be a downer for anyone looking for a tale of excessive violence to be more graphic . Nor does it really dig deep enough below the surface to show what may have caused his emergence as a psychopath . Harmon is completely normal looking as Bundy and could have used more disguises , just as Bundy did , but still gives a very effective performance . Others in the large cast do competent jobs but it's Bundy who rivets all the attention . Chilling and disturbing tale , but well done .
Mature political thriller provides gripping entertainment . . .	It's a pleasure to report that STATE OF PLAY revives my interest in political thrillers . This one starts out with a suspenseful killing on a dark and rainy night in an alley and never lets go of a grip on the attention . The actors all have great help from a well-written , tightly paced script that affords all of them to shine . RUSSELL CROWE is the center of the tale as a scrappy newspaper reporter , slovenly and overweight , who doesn't care if he has to risk his life to help a friend caught up in a political scandal ( BEN AFFLECK ) . He and Affleck dominate the proceedings , each delivering forceful performances . RACHEL McADAMS is delightful as another nervy reporter , who becomes Crowe's sidekick and wants to help him get to the bottom of a mystery involving the death of a mysterious young woman with close connections to a corrupt corporation . HELEN MIRREN as a tough no-nonsense newspaper boss , JEFF DANIELS as a sleazy congressman with too much power and JASON BATEMAN as a smooth operator who talks too much - - all of them are excellent . Bateman is a real surprise , having developed into the kind of actor who could give James Bond a lesson in being suave and polished . He has certainly matured as an actor . MICHAEL BERRESSE is strikingly sinister as the gunman whose presence looms over the whole story as he prepares to assassinate others to keep a lid on corporate corruption in Washington , D . C . It's an intense thriller , directed in high style by Kevin Macdonald and should keep fans of this genre well entertained throughout .
Sprawling cattle drive saga makes excellent western drama . . .	RED RIVER is a western drama revolving around the intense bitterness between two men , and comes to a climax when MONTGOMERY CLIFT ( in his first role ) is pitted against his guardian JOHN WAYNE , after a cattle drive during which the two have various disagreements over Wayne's ruthless handling of life and death matters . Although it's filmed in glorious B & W , this is one western that would definitely have benefited by handsome Technicolor photography . Conflicts along the Chisholm trail during the lengthy cattle drive from Texas to Missouri provide the source of human interest . Noteworthy performances from Wayne and Clift , as well as NOAH BEERY , JR . , JOHN IRELAND and WALTER BRENNAN are instrumental in maintaining high interest in the story . And , as usual , the orchestral and choral music of Dimitri Tiomkin adds another dimension . Brennan's character provides some comic relief but it's not overdone , as is sometimes the case . Wayne is brilliant in an unsympathetic role as a tough and stubborn boss determined to get his herd to market in Missouri rather than taking a shorter route to Abilene . When Clift convinces the men on the drive that he'll lead them to Abilene , leaving Wayne behind in defiant contempt , you know there will be a final struggle between the two men at the finale . JOANNE DRU comes into the story toward the last forty-five minutes as a feisty woman attracted to Clift and determined to shield him from the vengeance seeking Wayne who makes no secret of the fact that he intends to kill him when he catches up with him . It's an interesting western , but I thought the ending involving Dru was a bit contrived and not entirely true to the characterizations of Wayne and Clift that went before . Their sudden change of viewpoint after Dru's burst of temper is hard to swallow . Summing up : Among the best of westerns , handsomely photographed on scenic locations .
Occupational hazards of being a gangster . . . Robinson's tough guy snarls his way to stardom . . .	Despite the obvious drawbacks of being an early talking film with a mostly silent background for the soundtrack ( except for the bullets ) and some snappy dialog ( ' 30s style ) , LITTLE CAESAR holds the attention like a magnet because of EDWARD G . ROBINSON's tough guy persona as he snarls his way up the rungs of the gangster ladder . And snarl he does with most of his terse dialog , " yeah ! " Most of it is played in the sort of acting style common to films of this period , but it still fascinates and demands attention with a plot line outlining the rise and fall of a ruthless and arrogant gangster who looks somewhat like Al Capone . Robinson vividly gets across his character with a snarl in his voice that seems a little melodramatic after awhile ( almost a parody of a gangster ) but suits the style of this lurid underworld melodrama directed with style by Mervyn LeRoy . DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS , JR . ( before his trademark mustache ) , is a sleek and debonair presence , offering a handsome contrast to Robinson's rather homely mug . Any inference of a homosexual relationship between the two is strictly in the mind of certain viewers and certainly not implied by the script . Robinson's inability to shoot Fairbanks because he " likes " him is all we need know . GLENDA FARRELL , before her tough girl image was fashioned , is rather ordinary as " the girl " loved by Fairbanks . The standout in the supporting cast is Thomas E . Jackson as Flaherty , the police officer who has some humorously sardonic lines . His sarcastic quips offer a truthful commentary on the proceedings . Enjoyable as an early gangster film , but limited in quality by the primitive sound recording . It certainly benefits from Anton Grot's interesting sets and the stark B & W photography of Tony Gaudio . Well worth watching .
Delightful cartoon highlights a singing frog . . .	Anyone who's ever had a frog in his voice should enjoy this endearing cartoon from Chuck Jones . Not only is the frog beautifully animated when he goes into his song and dance routines , but the songs range from " Hello , Ma Baby " to an operatic aria from " The Barber of Seville . " The simple story has an unusual premise . A man discovers a frog living inside the cornerstone of a building just demolished . The frog emerges in fine singing form , demonstrating that he's very much alive and can sing and dance . Immediately the man has dollar signs in his eyes and decides to make the rounds of agents willing to feature his singing frog as the main attraction . Has to be one of the most original of all the Chuck Jones cartoons , fresh and funny as ever despite the crazy concept of a singing and dancing frog . ( Or because of ) . An absolute delight .
Another gritty Leone western is a buddy flick for Eastwood and Van Cleef . . .	This is another iconic spaghetti western so popular in the mid-'60s due to Sergio Leone's direction of CLINT EASTWOOD and LEE VAN CLEEF , two mesmerizing actors in another western scored by the talented Ennio Morricone . This time the two men are bounty hunters , presumably hunting guilty men for the same reason - - except that one of them has a special mission . Without giving any plot points away , let's just say that the pocket watch bit is a clever ploy in leading to one of the more important gunfights . All the usual ingredients to make this an Eastwood hit are present , but this time it's LEE VAN CLEEF who makes the strongest impression in a role that is laced with some biting humor and sarcasm , tough but clever and clearly the more interesting of the two . Nevertheless , Eastwood is in fine form and the two men make the best buddy team since " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " . The Morricone score will stick in your mind - - and so will the overall impression the film makes as a tough spaghetti western .
Clever , brisk and thoroughly entertaining . . .	There's not a second of screen time wasted in telling the tale of the Star of Rhodesia diamond that is stolen aboard an express train - - and , of course , Sherlock Holmes , Dr . Watson and Insepctor LeStrade are all aboard the train , having been advised that someone is going to make an attempt to steal it . This low-budget Universal entry is easily one of the best of the Universal features co-starring BASIL RATHBONE and NIGEL BRUCE . Bruce is especially funny as he decides to do some investigating himself , with amusing false clues leading him astray . Rathbone is completely suave and relaxed as Holmes , less snappy than usual in the way he treats Watson and much more likable in the role than he has been in other entries . The plot abounds with the usual assortment of suspicious characters , but of all the supporting players ALAN MOBRAY is the one who stands out as the man who befriends Watson . Despite the low-budget trimmings and overuse of miniatures to show a train racing through the fog at night , the story is taut and the whole affair is intriguing enough to keep you watching until the unusual ending - - where a double twist is completely unexpected . Highly enjoyable Holmes adventure , well-paced and entertaining .
Zany fun . . . overflowing with Sturges madness !	THE PALM BEACH STORY is not to be confused with reality . It's a zany romantic comedy given full speed treatment by director Preston Sturges who brought screwball comedy to an art form . His script , full of hilarious one-liners that fly by almost too fast to catch , is acted to perfection by CLAUDETTE COLBERT , RUDY VALLEE and MARY ASTOR - - with a less enthusiastic turn by JOEL McCREA who gives the only so-so performance , perhaps because none of the wittiest lines come his way . I've always liked this actor but here is performance is almost muted and strangely remote . Nevertheless , if screwball comedy is your dish , this is one you can relish . From the moment Colbert gets aboard a train carrying her to Palm Beach , the fun starts and gets into high gear , racing toward a conclusion that is not altogether satisfying nor even remotely hinted at until the final few minutes of film . It's a twist that somehow doesn't ring true - - the only really false note in an otherwise perfect screwball comedy . Rudy Vallee is outstanding as a nutty millionaire , a role written expressly for him ( and he even gets to sing a little ) - - and Mary Astor , as his husband hunting sister , is hilariously over the top as a woman who can't stop talking while pursuing her man . A good way to spend a pleasant 90 minutes .
Darker side of sibling rivalry . . . excellent support by Buono . . .	Traces of SUNSET BLVD's darker vision of Hollywood celebrity and other noir style films of the ' 40s and ' 50s hang over WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE ? It's Robert Aldrich once again conjuring up a classic sibling rivalry tale that takes place mostly in a dark and decaying mansion where two sisters must confront their dark past . While the performances of BETTE DAVIS and JOAN CRAWFORD are above reproach , it's Davis ' pathetic scenes with VICTOR BUONO that really stand out for me . Just watch his face as he changes expressions at the piano while Davis twirls around in a child-like trance to offer him one of her biggest numbers as a child star - - " I've Written A Letter to Daddy . " It's a priceless performance that both of them give and Buono did deserve his Oscar nomination in a weirdly offbeat supporting role . Davis wrings as much pathos from the role as possible , but the harsh make-up and the cruel situations make her seem like the sinister daughter of Cruella deVille at times . Crawford deliberately underplays a less showy part , but does so very effectively . Maidie Norman is excellent as a maid suspicious of Davis ' behavior toward Joan , but her character should have known better than to turn her back on Davis when coming to Joan's rescue . Sharp-eyed observers will notice Ernie Anderson ( from Bette's IN THIS OUR LIFE ) as the ice cream vendor on the beach . A little editing here and there would have been wise , for the story does drag on for too long a length before that dazzling conclusion on the beach , which conjures up images of SUNSET BLVD . ' s final moments . Obviously easy to see why fans of Davis and Crawford are so eager to embrace this as the ultimate in viewing pleasure - - but personally , I preferred the later Southern Gothic tale , HUSH . . . HUSH , SWEET CHARLOTTE , which Crawford walked out on after filming began . I think it had more Grade A production values and was an even bigger showcase for its well-known supporting players . However , deVol's haunting use of music here is just as effective as the one he wrote for CHARLOTTwhich was very good indeed and there is excellent camera-work by Ernie Haller . Summing up : Absorbing story , gripping performances .
This is the real thing . . . truly terrifying even after all these years . . .	The horror genre today has cornered the market on slasher films of all types that appeal mainly to teen-agers and young adults . But the one Wes Craven film that still stands high and above as a towering example of a great horror film is NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET . Its great success is partly because the blurring of dreams and reality is so cleverly done that the audience , along with the participants on screen , scarcely knows when to believe Freddy is real or not . And Freddy Krueger here is not played for laughs , as he was in later NIGHTMARE films . There is an occasional touch of humor , but for the most the horror is played straight and it really works . The revenge motif is clearly explained with Freddy getting even with the parents who burned him to death by tracking down their children . Perhaps the scariest moment in the whole film is the episode involving the unfortunate victim , Johnny Depp , in one of his first roles . The gory , vindictive nature of Freddy Krueger is fully exploited in this sequence . Fans of the series should make sure they see this one . It stands head and shoulders above most horror flicks that have come along since 1984 . Wes Craven has gotten an excellent performance from Robert Eglund as the man with the claws and the other players are not far behind . This one ranks with HALLOWEEN as one of the best fright flicks of the last few decades .
Tense , taut and terrific in semi-documentary style . . .	The young ARTHUR KENNEDY was one of our best dramatic actors and proves it in BOOMERANG ! by giving a realistic punch to his performance as an innocent man caught in a murder trap . The only man who can save him is attorney DANA ANDREWS , who does a fine job of pointing out weaknesses in the case and destroying the false witnesses . One of the best of its kind , it's done in brisk , documentary style popular in the early forties . Well worth viewing , beautifully directed and acted by a fine cast . Jane Wyatt does a nice job , as does Ed Begley and Sam Levene . Based on a true incident , the murder of a popular parish priest in Connecticut , the film is powerful in its demonstration of our justice system and how it sometimes works , but sometimes fails because of behind the scenes dishonesty related to political shenanigans .
A bit overlong in getting to the big battle . . . but worth the wait . . .	Detailing the events leading up to the infamous Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor , December 7 , 1941 - - and telling the story from both the Japanese and American point of view - - TORA ! TORA ! TORA ! is most effective when it gets to the day of battle which begins with the Japanese pilots getting into their planes and culminates in the extremely realistic depiction of the actual bombing . The film is faulty in getting us to that point , as it weaves back and forth between Hawaii and Washington , depicting Japanese and American behind-the-scenes intrigue , and in an objective way telling the complete story of the mistakes , big and small on both sides , that led the U . S . into World War II . Whether there are inaccuracies in the telling , for dramatic purposes , I'm not sure - - but it does seem to be even handed in its treatment of events . Although the cast is an impressive one , there are no single performances that stay in the mind . Instead , the viewer is aware of the vast scope of the story and the series of events that took place just before that fateful day - - which is as it should be . The Japanese segments held more fascination for me than the American sequences , for some reason . The pacing of the first two-thirds of the story is on the slow side . Not until the last forty-five minutes does the film come to life with an absolute sense of realism in its display of the bombing raid both from the air and on the ground . Technically , the film is a superb example of ' 70s film-making . All of the battle scenes are extremely well done for maximum effect . Yamamoto's final words serve as a chilling reminder , the kind of remark that still holds true in today's world where the U . S . is fighting a war against terrorism which , hopefully , has aroused " the sleeping giant " ( the U . S . ) to the extent that we will eventually triumph over our enemies who want to kill us as we were the victors over Japan . As a history lesson , this is a very valuable film indeed .
Fred's Firecracker Dance Steals the Show ! ! . . .	What more can be said about a movie that's become a perennial Christmas favorite featuring a whole slew of Irving Berlin song and dance routines , and two of the most popular and talented stars of film musicals - - BING CROSBY and FRED ASTAIRE at their best . Well , it's a light , airy , briskly entertaining sort of musical that deserves its immense popularity due mainly to the unforgettable Berlin songs that are sprinkled throughout : " White Christmas " , " Easter Parade " , " Happy Holidays " and " Be Careful , It's My Heart " , among a roster of other delights that more than make up for a thin storyline . And Fred Astaire , in his prime , is a dancer to be reckoned with when he taps his way through the perfectly timed firecracker dance for The Fourth of July sequence . That amazing solo dance , thanks to a pocketful of firecrackers , is alone worth waiting for . Wartime audiences back in 1942 hungered for this kind of innocent fun and laughter - - as well as all of the nostalgic , cozy sort of charm induced by having an inviting setting ( a lovely old farmhouse in Connecticut ) serve as the focal piece for the story of two show business men fighting over the same girl . Marjorie Reynolds lends her winsome charm to the female lead and Walter Abel is delightful in a good supporting role . Especially interesting is the way the storyline leads to Hollywood and the movie combines the Christmas stage setting on a studio set ( which is supposed to be an exact replica of the farmhouse ) , as compared to the real thing . And it's there , on that studio set , that the story leads to its inevitable conclusion with the singing of " White Christmas " . Interesting bit of trivia : My personal favorite Best Song nomination that year was " Love Is A Song " , the beautiful main theme of BAMBI , but , of course , it had no chance against Irving Berlin's title tune at the top of all the music charts . Too bad Paramount couldn't afford Technicolor for this one . They were on a budget during the war years and made very few major releases in color .
Stunning effects , sturdy Superman performances , good score . . .	SUPERMAN RETURNS is a summer blockbuster that should make the majority of fans mighty happy . It looks every penny of its cost , is cast with appropriate faces in the leading roles and delivers a punch whenever the man with the cape is called into action . The soundtrack and musical score also deliver as expected to accompany what looks to be a surefire hit . BRANDON ROUTH may not yet have the polished craft that came with CHRISTOPHER REEVE's Clark Kent - - but he tries hard . His bumbling Kent is not as endearingly funny but then , the script just doesn't give him a lot of opportunities in that guise . When it comes to filling Superman's costume , he's more than up to the job . ( Anyone expecting to determine whether his assets are clearly outlined is in for a disappointment . The cinematographer obviously had instructions to photograph him from the waist up for most of his close-ups and medium shots ) . But Routh , who is physically even more buff than Reeve was in the role , delivers acceptably as Kent and the man with the flying cape . By the next installment ( assuming there will be one ) , he'll be even more sure of his grasp in the acting department . EVA MARIE SAINT has a thankless role as his mom - - mostly around to give him a hug and a word of encouragement . KEVIN SPACEY has a great deal of fun with the Lex Luthor role , demonstrating again that he's one of the finest acting talents around . And JAMES MARSDEN adds his own brand of boyish charm to the role of Lois Lane's boyfriend , who is getting just a little jealous of her crush on the super hero . KATE BOSWORTH , unfortunately , is simply bland as Lois Lane - - no zip at all to her performance , nor is there any noticeable chemistry between her and the man with the chiseled features . The storyline addition of Superman's son does little to put any spark of originality in the plotting , but it's not as detrimental as others have suggested . FRANK LANGELLA does nicely as the Daily Planet's scrappy boss . All in all , a stunningly good show - - all of the action scenes are brilliantly staged for maximum effect , along with a pulsating musical score by John Ottman that punctuates all of the action and suspense with just the right amount of menace , while at the same time incorporating the John Williams " Superman " theme when appropriate . And we get just a brief glimpse of MARLON BRANDO at the start , giving his son some words of advice in scenes filmed but cut from the 1978 Reeve film . Well worth seeing and enjoying on the big screen . Whether this will play as well on the small screen is another matter .
Superb visuals , stunning impact . . . if a bit overproduced . . .	No doubt Peter Jackson's superb CGI effects and handsome production values will make his KING KONG just as much of a hit with the filmgoing public as Merian C . Cooper's B & W RKO original back in 1933 . But even with the vast improvement in special effects , a superior script and some extremely well acted leads capable of bringing real terror and thrills to the well-known storyline , one can still retain a certain fondness for the less flamboyant original . And before proceeding with my comments , it's essential to note that at least 45 minutes could have been trimmed from the Scull Island action scenes involving assorted attacks by a variety of insects , bugs and assorted prehistoric creatures . There are some goofs here and the machine gunning of some over-sized bugs clinging to the crew of actors has to be considered downright foolish , straining credibility to the limits . I feel the film is divided into three parts : the first hour is used to delve into the background of the main actors and it does so in a very human and entertaining way against a remarkable New York Depression-era backdrop that has a life of its own and seems to capture the period perfectly ; the second part lingers a little too long on jungle clashes with prehistoric creatures including all sorts of slimy bugs and creepers as well as the gargantuan dinosaurs . The hairbreadth escapes that the heroine has from the jaws of death are a bit over-the-top in comic book style so that this part of the film is pure cliffhanger ; the third part returns to New York for the wondrously filmed climb to the Empire State Building and is guaranteed to stir feelings of vertigo in anyone who feels themselves inclined to fall forward from dizzying heights - - as I did . I found myself clutching the sides of my armrest to steady myself for the whirling camera shots of the city skyline at various angles while bi-planes circled the trapped Kong and his golden trophy . There is only one element from the original missing . I was waiting for the scene where Kong destroys an elevated railroad line as the train roars by full of passengers . Instead , Jackson has him pawing away at buses and taxis but there's no railroad destruction at all . Perhaps a sign that the producers ran out of money toward the end of the film and decided not to stage what was a memorable moment from the original . But all of the Empire State building sequence is breathtaking to behold with superb - - but dizzying - - camera-work and convincing action from all the participants , including the machine-gunning stunt pilots . My only criticism is that Jackson seems to have gone all out to embellish every moment of the film , especially the jungle sequences which are a never ending test of endurance for Carl Denham ( Jack Black ) and his crew . Black resembles a youthful Orson Welles , especially in close-up . Aiden Brody is excellent as the scriptwriter who is essentially hi-jacked for the purpose of completing his fifteen page script so that Denham will have something to shoot when he gets to Scull Island . Naomi Watts is an excellent replacement for the Fay Wray role of the screaming heroine , giving it a bit more depth and sympathy since the part has been enlarged to give her much more to do . Truthfully , she never could have survived half of the tribulations she's subjected to in the course of the story - - but this is a fantasy , of course , and she ends up with a few photogenic scratches . Kyle Chandler brings a bit of humor to his role as the heroine's co-star , a brawny chap who admits he's not the movie hero he is on screen when confronted with creatures even larger than those in JURASSIC PARK . And Thomas Kretschmann as the ship's grizzly Captain , reminds me of a handsomer Liam Neeson lookalike with talent to match . Some of the action scenes may be too intense for the youngest kids , but I'm sure young and old alike will make this KING KONG a " must see " on the big screen for years to come . But trimming some of the excessive , bloated action scenes would have made an even more powerful film .
Eye-popping special effects add luster to rich romantic drama . . .	Individual performances in this romantic epic are excellent - - Lana Turner , Van Heflin , Donna Reed and Richard Hart do some fine work . Even more impressive are three of the supporting players involved in a sub-plot of their own : Frank Morgan , Edmund Gwenn and Gladys Cooper . Basically a love story depicting two sisters in love with the same man ( Richard Hart ) and what happens when , in a drunken stupor , he sends for the wrong woman to join him at an outpost in New Zealand . Plot complications thicken and the rest of the story is told against a backdrop of native uprisings , tidal waves and earthquakes that are all realistically depicted . No wonder the film won an Oscar for its startling Special Effects . Lana Turner does a wonderful job as the spirited heroine on an emotional roller-coaster and Van Heflin gives his usual impressive performance as the only man who knows the truth about her relationship with Richard Hart . Donna Reed is sincere as the good sister and has a gripping scene where she is stranded on an island as the tide closes in and must climb an inner cave wall to the safety of a monastery . She also has an extraordinary moment at her mother's deathbed when confessions of a personal sort are made to her and her grieving father . Edmund Gwenn and Gladys Cooper do an outstanding job of conveying their emotions here . Richly satisfying as a romantic drama , its high production values give it that special MGM gloss worthy of an epic film . It's a lengthy film and by the time it's all over , you feel as though you've experienced a lifetime of personal events .
Remarkable in detailing the life and times of Franklin and Eleanor . . .	FRANKLIN AND ELEANOR was a remarkable television mini-series that topcast BERNARD HERRMANN and JANE Alexander as Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his wife , Eleanor - - taking them through courtship and marriage to the stormy years of discontent while his political ambitions became known to her ( and eventually his indiscretions ) , as well as the political climate during the early years of his presidency at the height of the Great Depression , followed by the tumultuous war years of World War II . It never ceases to be endlessly fascinating , treating with respect and dignity the lives of the famous couple and their various dealings with others while he becomes head of the Democratic party and then is elected to be a four-term president during some of the most difficult years in American history . Production-wise , it's excellent and received many awards and nominations . It should be required viewing for any student of history and dramatically , it is very effective with a fitting background score by John Barry .
Struggle for survival in the big city . . . brilliant performances . . .	Hardly the stuff dreams are made of is this pursuit of the brass ring by a naive hustler ( JON VOIGT ) and his lame con-man sidekick ( DUSTIN Hoffman ) , soon to forge a friendship based on basic survival skills . A daring film for its time , and a foremost example of the kind of gritty landscape being explored in the more graphic films of the ' 60s . Symbolic of the " end of innocence " in American films , since it was the only X-rated film to win a Best Picture Oscar . JON VOIGT is the male hustler who comes to the big city expecting to find women an easy way to make money when they fight over his body , but soon finds the city is a cold place with no welcome mat for his ilk . Befriended by a lame con-man ( DUSTIN Hoffman ) , he goes through a series of serio-comic adventures that leave him disillusioned and bitter , ready to leave the confines of a cold water flat for the sunshine promised in Florida , a land his friend " Ratzo " dreams of living in . But even in this final quest , the two are losers . John Schlesinger has directed with finesse from a brilliant script by Waldo Salt , and John Barry's haunting " Midnight Cowboy " theme adds to the poignant moments of search and desperation . Summing up : A true American classic honestly facing a tough subject and daring to show the underbelly of certain aspects of city life .
Improbable but hard to resist . . . the best of the Day / Hudson teamings . . .	DORIS DAY and ROCK HUDSON were at the top of their form in PILLOW TALK , and it was the beginning of a wonderful friendship that lasted through the years , until the actor's untimely death from AIDs . In this sunny romantic comedy , they share a party line ( which makes the story dated already ) , and the comedy stems from their instant dislike for each other that melts only when Hudson happens to see what she looks like at a night club . Realizing he'll never score with her unless he pretends to be someone else , he puts on a Texan accent and proceeds to charm her - - until the deception wears thin . With THELMA RITTER as Doris ' tipsy maid offering one-liner wisecracks and TONY RANDALL as best friend , the supporting roles are in good hands . It's the only time Doris received an Oscar nomination for her work and well worth seeing for the clever script and sexy situations . This would be the beginning of the sex comedies Day starred in throughout the next decade and still remains the best of the lot .
This is my kind of film noir . . . great performances from fine cast . . .	KISS OF DEATH easily ranks among the best film noirs of the ' 40s and it's widely remembered now as the first time audiences got a peek at RICHARD WIDMARK and what a fine actor he was . But it also served to remind us that when given a strong enough role , VICTOR MATURE was more than able to deliver the goods . He's excellent as Nick , the jewel thief kept back from holding decent jobs because of his prison record . When a nice D . A . ( BRIAN DONLEVY ) offers him a deal in exchange for squealing on some hoods , Nick finally takes the offer . The rest of the story deals with the consequences of his hard choice . Some nice supporting roles for MILDRED DUNNOCK , KARL MALDEN , COLEEN GRAY and MILLARD MITCHELL help turn this thriller , directed in taut style by Henry Hathaway , into a winner . Widmark deserved his Oscar nomination as Best Supporting Actor and Mature proved that he was more than just " a hunk of man " as he was labeled in those days .
One of the best bios on Flynn . . . shows another aspect of the man and his life . . .	This is an interesting and very informative , entertaining way to spend time learning about ERROL FLYNN . Aside from some penetrating comments from two of his ex-wives ( Nora Eddington and Patrice Wymore ) , there are some frank and very supportive comments on the real Errol Flynn ( if anybody really knew him ) from his most frequent co-star , Olivia de Havilland . It is the first time she has openly revealed anything about the deep love and affection Flynn and de Havilland had for each other . In addition , some very interesting comments by Richard Dreyfuss , who became a Flynn fan at the age of eight and gives what seem like spontaneous , off the cuff comments that seem unrehearsed and genuine . Daughter Diedre expresses the wish that others knew more about the quieter , family man side of Flynn that is obscured by all the tales of his womanizing . It seems that his real interest lay in writing , but although he wrote two novels ( neither a great literary success ) , he lacked the discipline to achieve his literary ambitions . Not easy to understand why anyone asked Joanne Woodward and Burt Reynolds to make contributions . Neither of them was a close confidante of the actor nor ever worked with him . Seems strange to hear them talking about him and contributing little to our knowledge of him without any first hand experience . The film clips , revealing Flynn in all his charismatic glory ( especially during the height of his career ) are generous and always stimulating , reminding us how great his screen presence was - - a combination of athletic grace and classic good looks along with acting ability that was often underrated . Any fan of the actor will appreciate this documentary . It has style and content and the kind of assurance about its subject that will endear it to Flynn's fans . If nothing else , it serves to remind us that he was one of the most dashing actors of the silver screen and , when teamed with Olivia de Havilland in those great adventure-romance classics , he had no peer . While it does deal with some of his unsavory exploits ( such as the rape trial ) , it does not exploit them and instead shows us another , more sensitive side of Flynn that has been missing in most biographies of the actor .
Anthony Quinn's brute is one of his greatest roles . . .	LA STRADA is a powerful experience , a wonderfully filmed masterpiece of its kind with tragic and comic overtones blended perfectly . Actually , it demonstrates in the end how much Zampano ( ANTHONY QUINN as a strongman ) and Gelsomina ( GIULIETTE MASINA ) really needed each other - - something he would never admit to himself until he finds himself hearing her plaintive trumpet song and ends up alone and deserted on the beach in the final scene . Quinn has never sharply defined a brute as well as he does here - - if possible , even more brutish than Stanley Kowalski ever was ! As the " artichoke " girl with the mournful eyes , Masina is enormously effective in showing how sensitive her simple-minded character is beneath the harsh treatment and humiliation she must suffer in her search for affection . I would have preferred a soundtrack that used the haunting melody more effectively instead of random chords of music that crop up now and then . This would have added immeasurably to the brooding atmosphere of loneliness and despair in harsh surroundings . RICHARD BASEHART is outstanding as The Fool who cannot resist the temptation to tease and torment Zampano - - to the point where he is brutalized by the brute in a final act of revenge . Basehart has never given a performance of this caliber before and is remarkable in all of his tender scenes with Masina . Summing up : A masterpiece of its kind , well worth experiencing .
Gorgeous but basically superficial look at Howard Hughes ' life . . .	THE AVIATOR is a film as eccentric as Howard Hughes himself . It never really explains the germ phobia that possesses him since we are only given one brief scene of his mother bathing him as a boy and requiring him to spell the word " Q-u-a-r-a-n-t-i-n-e " . This is supposed to explain his lifelong fear of germs - - in effect , it's Martin Scorsese letting us in on the " Rosebud " behind his movie before the story even starts - - a tribute to Orson Welles perhaps . With that mystery out of the way , the film proceeds to tell , at length , about the most productive years in the producer's life , a span of twenty years during which he gave the world HELL'S ANGELS , SCARFACE and THE OUTLAW when he wasn't immersing himself in the mysteries of flight . Like HELL'S ANGELS , the film is best when dealing with the aviation scenes , although all of the Hollywood period elements are done with style , taste and flair . Cate Blanchett , although not exactly a facsimile of Hepburn physically , plays Kate Hepburn with a marvelous sense of timing that catches the Hepburn mannerisms . Instead of dealing with Hughes ' other affairs with actresses , Scorsese concentrates mainly on Hepburn with fairly good results . The scene where she takes Hughes home to meet her clan of kinfolk is hilariously staged . The big test flying accident that did considerable damage to Hughes physically , is stunningly recreated for maximum effect . It certainly never damaged his spirit - - and Leonardo DiCaprio plays Hughes with considerable enthusiasm as a man with strong convictions about his passion for aviation . He does a brilliant job despite the fact that he was not ideally cast to play Hughes . His fans will be proud of his work in this one . Not so fortunate is Jude Law , who , mercifully , appears briefly as Errol Flynn . This is the first truly bad performance I've seen from Law , and a major casting error even though his screen time is limited . Gwen Stefani in no way resembles Jean Harlow facially - - only the bleached blonde hairdo lends any credibility to her role . Kate Beckinsdale does a remarkably fine job as Ava Gardner - - stunning to look at and giving plenty of gusto to her feisty role . DiCaprio carries the film and does so with a superb , consistently on target performance . It's clearly his best work since TITANIC . For a really insightful look at the man who was Howard Hughes you would have to look much further than this slick , extremely well made film that will no doubt please the average movie-goer . He was a complex man - - a billionaire whose conflicting traits made him a paradox - - part playboy , part businessman , part inventor - - and possessed by demons that eventually destroyed him . It's quite an interesting film but Scorsese never really captures what makes the man tick .
Exquisite nostalgia that any movie fan can identify with . . .	This is such a difficult film to describe in words because all of it is heartfelt emotion . However , it must be noted that the three central performances are beyond reproach : the child Salvatore ( played with rascally charm by Salvatore Cascio ) , the brusque projectionist Alfredo ( Philippe Noiret ) and the adolescent Salvatore ( Marco Leonardi ) . All three are masterful in creating the viewer's emotional attachment to these characters . The relationship between the tough but tender projectionist and the little boy is what carries the first half of the film and it continues when the boy becomes a lovesick adolescent . It is only the last half of the film that seems to drag a little with scenes of the adult Salvatore ( Jacques Perrin ) contemplating returning to the little village where he grew up in the shadows of the movie theater and those wonderful silver shadows on the screen . All of the scenes involving the movie theater and its rowdy audiences are wonderfully realized with crude humor and insight into the kind of characters who thrived on whatever entertainment films could offer . Ennio Morriconne's music is charming throughout , always totally in keeping with the images on screen and the intentions of the story . By all means , well worth seeing and treasuring as one of the great foreign films to come out of the 1980s . I watched the abbreviated version on TCM which comes to a little more than two hours and is the version shown in the U . S . theatrically .
McGlaglen and Temple have great chemistry . . . good John Ford touches . . .	SHIRLEY TEMPLE has always said that WEE WILLIE WINKIE was her own personal favorite among her childhood films because it gave her a chance to indulge herself as a tomboy . And because it has a good script , fine all around performances and moves along at a nice clip , it's one of the best Temple vehicles , showing exactly why she was such a popular young child star . The story is a simple one , with Shirley and her mother ( June Lang ) arriving at a British military outpost in India under the gruff but lovable protection of the colonel ( Sir C . Aubrey Smith ) . Temple immediately wants to join in the marching and soldiering and McGlaglen is assigned to teach her the ropes . Therein lies the film's strongest bits of interplay between Temple and a co-star of equal scene-stealing abilities . There is genuine bathos in their ultimate scene together , with Shirley rendering a sweet rendition of Auld Lang Syne while the soldier lies on his deathbed . There are John Ford touches everywhere , so it's no surprise that the picture still holds up pretty well today . Temple fans will not be disappointed . Shirley fits the role of the tomboyish Priscilla with abundant good humor and a considerable amount of innocent charm . In secondary roles , there is an unobtrusive romance between Michael Whalen and June Lang and a surprising comedy bit by Constance Collier as a snooty matron urging her daughter to be less " anemic " so she can catch the eye of a soldier . Willie Fung as a spy adds some additional comic relief although the PC crowd will probably cringe at his antics . Ideal family entertainment .
In a world where nobody ever heard of window blinds . . .	While I thoroughly enjoyed REAR WINDOW and think it's among Hitch's best films , I always observe how easy it was for Stewart's character to view the lives around him . It seems that nobody in the entire neighborhood ever heard of keeping curtains or window blinds in more discreet positions . We are forced to believe that all of these people leave their windows totally exposed to the naked eye even though they face an apartment building not more than fifty feet away , and even when scantily clad or seeking a romantic rendezvous . Of course , little do they suspect that a wheelchair-bound photographer is stalking them through his binoculars and keeping tabs on their everyday quirks and foibles . This is where the story taps into the psyche of the main character , brilliantly played by JAMES STEWART . He gets excellent support from a first-rate cast , although I think GRACE KELLY was a bit arch as his female companion . However , it's RAYMOND BURR ( as a man Stewart suspects has killed his wife ) , JUDITH EVELYN ( as " Miss Lonelyhearts " ) , WENDELL COREY ( as a skeptical detective ) , and most of all , THELMA RITTER as a wise-cracking nurse , who really stir things up . Hitchcock shows complete control of his camera , forcing us to view everything just the way Stewart sees things and focusing our attention where it ought to be through the development of the story , which is loosely based on a Cornel Woolrich short story . It's the kind of film where you have to be watching and on the alert all the time so as not to miss anything . Highly satisfying and typically good Hitchcock suspense that builds to a tense stand-off at the climax .
Brilliant cast , director , script . . . memorable Paul Scofield . . .	A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS has Sir Thomas More ( PAUL SCOFIELD ) pitted against Henry VIII ( ROBERT SHAW ) as he struggles with his conscience and religious convictions rather than give in to those who want him to support the King's desire to annul his barren marriage and wed another . He's up against all sorts of devious schemers , two of the most infamous extremely well played by LEO McKERN and JOHN HURT . ROBERT SHAW gives an over-the-top , typically flamboyant performance as Henry VIII that sometimes borders on the ludicrous . Yet , for this performance , he received much acclaim . But PAUL SCOFIELD carries the film with his intelligent , piercing eyes and wit as he spars verbally with every member of his household , including WENDY HILLER as his stubborn wife who wants him to spare himself the indignity of being sent to the Tower . He maintains his poise and quiet determination at all times . The costumes , the sets , the exteriors - - all are brilliantly captured to give the film an authentic feeling of time and atmosphere . The screenplay by Robert Bolt is a pleasure to watch and listen to as it unfolds a period of history right before our eyes . This is the sort of film only the British can do in the royal manner - - and it justifiably won several well deserved Oscars , including one for Scofield as Best Actor and other awards that included Best Picture and Best Director ( FRED ZINNEMANN ) . As a history lesson , you can't afford to miss it .
Dandy version with George C . Scott as an ideal choice to play Scrooge . . .	If you're looking for a faithful version of " A Christmas Carol " with all of the bleakness of the original Dickens tale , you don't have to look any further than this version , filmed in Shrewsbury , England , and starring GEORGE C . SCOTT at his grumpiest . Of course , he turns into the lovable old codger for the last sequence and he's a delight in the role from beginning to end , with never a trace of overacting . Furthermore , all the trappings are there to make it the most heartwarming version ( a bit darker , perhaps , in some respects ) , but always faithful to the Victorian tale in the way it visualizes the famous story . Scott's excellent performance is bolstered by a fine supporting cast , including David WARNER as Bob Cratchit and EDWARD WOODWARD as a resplendent Ghost of Christmas Present and FRANK FINLAY as a chilling Marley's Ghost . The atmosphere is captured so that you're back in those times when merry old London was celebrating holiday traditions with a combination of joy and dark despair for the oppressed but with a happy ending for all , including Tiny Tim and the Cratchit family . Summing up : By all means , worth tuning in whenever it's aired .
Taut , rugged western . . . grinning Ryan steals the show . . .	I never realized what a scene-stealer ROBERT RYAN could be until I saw THE NAKED SPUR . Although JAMES STEWART is the nominal big name star , it's Ryan's charming , snake-like villain who dominates this rugged western despite strong performances from the entire cast . He obviously relishes his role and is a joy to watch . This is more a character study of a group of desperate losers than your average shoot ' em up western and Anthony Mann has directed it with the focus on the strong clashes between each one of them . RALPH MEEKER does an outstanding job as a war deserter who is both a help and a hindrance to the group as they seek to return outlaw Ryan to Kansas so justice can prevail . Stewart's character is given strong motivation for his deeds but Janet Leigh , as the outlaw's girlfriend , has a role that is not plausibly explained . Photographed in Colorado's Rocky Mountains , it's a rugged kind of technicolor western that gives all of the performers physically demanding roles - - and all of them are more than up to it . Stewart , Leigh , Mitchell and Meeker are all superb - - but it's Robert Ryan's devious villain that will linger longest in the memory .
SPOILER AHEAD . . . Grim , sobering and well-acted story of vigilante justice . . .	THE OX-BOW INCIDENT was never considered a success at the time of release , especially by studio mogul Darryl F . Zanuck who never considered a film a success of any kind if it lost at the box-office . However , over the years it has become an artistic success with fans who appreciate good movie-making when they see it . The performances are all first rate - - particularly HENRY FONDA as the not too bright drifter who opposes the lynching mob , Harry Morgan as his rather slow witted sidekick , Frank Conroy as the General with the weakling son ( William Eythe ) , and most importantly , DANA ANDREWS , who has the most riveting role in the whole film and makes the most of it . His is the outstanding contribution , sensitive and gripping . The story is based on a true incident that happened in Montana in the late 1880s - - and , of course , one that could have happened anywhere in the old West . It's easy to see why it was not a commercial success . Except for Fonda , there are no other major stars in the cast for marquee value . Neither Dana Andrews nor Anthony Quinn had yet achieved star status . The story is grim and downright sobering , dwelling , as it does , on man's inhumanity to man . The Paul Hurst character , who makes various mocking gestures with his hangman's knot , adds to the grim gloominess of all the proceedings . Hurst ( who played the Yankee deserter in GWTW ) was almost always cast as a villainous lug . The night scenes involving the hanging seem to take place on a studio soundstage but somehow it doesn't matter . Nothing distracts from the taut realism of the drama once we know that the lynching is definitely going to be carried out . Afterwards , the knowledge that the man they allegedly hanged is not dead , comes as a twist that drives home the senselessness of what their mob mentality has done . Mary Beth Hughes has a decorative role as the only feminine interest in the film - - except for an uncredited bit by Margaret Hamilton and an unusually grim and unsympathetic role for Jane Darwell . Well worth watching , a message picture that delivers without being preachy . My only complaint is that the letter Fonda reads at the end could have been simpler and less eloquent for the sake of realism and in keeping with the naturalness of Dana Andrew's performance . Complementing Andrew's work is a nice , sympathetic performance by character actor Harry Davenport as the man who tries hard to prevent the hanging . Otherwise , everything is right on the mark . Well worth watching .
The birth of two new movie stars . . .	What this documentary does is emphasize the fact that Errol Flynn and his frequent co-star Olivia de Havilland both came along at the right time - - both clicked immediately with audiences - - and both became permanent fixtures of the romantic swashbuckler / western type of adventure film for which Flynn was famous . Both are treated with insightful reflections on their persona by Robert Osborne , Rudy Behlmer and Bob Thomas , who offer some superb commentary while showing clips from the film that made Flynn and de Havilland such popular co-stars . And , of course , the great Erich Wolfgang Korngold score gets mentioned with full appreciation for its contribution to the success of CAPTAIN BLOOD . Trivia : Interesting that both de Havilland and Flynn were not the first choices for their roles - - others were considered and then dropped .
Eloquently understated little tear-jerker . . . grounded in reality . . .	Bathed in a softly glowing palette of muted colors , DEAR FRANKIE puts three bruised characters in the forefront , surrounds them with believable supporting characters grounded in reality , and takes its time in letting a well-written script unwind as these actors draw you into the story . The idea behind the story is a simple one of a mother protecting her deaf child by shielding him from the truth about his brutal father . When the son builds up the fantasy of a sea-faring father too busy with his work as a sailor to spend much time with them , the mother invents a surrogate father for a day who will fulfill the boy's wish to see the father who means so much to him through letters ( actually written by the mother ) . The only shortcoming in the script is giving The Stranger ( Gerard Butler ) too little screen time . He comes into the story after a good 45 minutes have been spent building up to his entrance and his performance is a well crafted one , sturdy and dependable throughout . His scenes with the boy are tender without becoming mawkish or overly sentimental and have the ring of truth about them . The aquarium scene shows how much he has warmed to the idea of being the boy's father with just a simple close-up of Butler's face watching the child ( Jack McElhone ) , conveying without words the gradual change coming over the gruff man . But the mainstay of the film are the performances by the female lead , Emily Mortimer and , of course , young McElhone , who carry the first part of the film entirely . There never seems to be a false move or moment between them . The woman's grandmother , Mary Mulligan , is also excellent , providing rough humor but always very real . A charming musical score provides a nice background touch to the proceedings and the bleak Glasgow landscapes give the film the sort of brooding atmosphere it needs . The ending could have opted for more of a Hollywood touch , but this was avoided and viewers can suppose what they like of the fact that the mother and The Stranger may indeed have a future together when she has time to think about it . Well worth watching but an independent film not likely to draw a wide audience unless Butler's fans increase its box-office worth . Nevertheless , there are some strong individual scenes that more than make up for the slow pacing and the story maintains interest because all of the characterizations are right on target .
A brilliant slice of life . . . excellent performances . . .	No film in recent years has held me as spellbound as SLING BLADE , written by BILLY BOB THORNTON ( for which he won an Oscar for Best Screenplay ) , and starring the actor in a memorable role for which he was Oscar nominated but failed to win . He becomes the character with such truth - - and such emotional underplaying - - that he makes the whole story even more moving than it would have been with any other actor in the leading role . He plays a retarded man released from prison after serving twenty-five years for killing his mother and her lover with a sling blade . He felt morally justified because he saw their act of love as evil , only later realizing that it was wrong to kill them . We follow his release , first accepted with kindness by a local repair shop where he reveals himself to be skilled at fixing motors , then received into the family of a boy he's befriended , played wonderfully by LUCAS BLACK . Unfortunately , the family life is ruined by a violently dysfunctional man called Doyle ( DWIGHT YOAKAM ) who is a crude bully and redneck full of bitter hatred and resenting the intrusion of Thornton and the boy and possessive in his relationship with the mother . The biggest weakness in the screenplay is figuring out why the mother would ever be attracted by such a bigoted bully . Yoakam plays him in a ruthless manner that shows no compassion for the character and he's so evil that you have to wonder about the mother's mental faculties in letting him even near the family . It's also hard to believe that she would let the retired man use her garage for shelter on such short acquaintance with her son . But hey , this is a movie , this is the script , and that's it . All of the acting is uniformly excellent , particularly BILLY BOB THORNTON , who was nominated and would have deserved the Oscar for his penetrating study of a retarded man without a single false note . Tension builds because the viewer is aware that some sort of confrontation has to happen between Karl ( Thornton ) and Doyle . It's a matter of waiting to see what develops and that's what keeps the viewer hooked onto the story and wondering how it will conclude . It's a fully realized slice of life , Southern style with hillbilly overtones , always centered on the main thrust of the story without ever losing its touch , rich in atmospheric detail . J . T . WALSH as a fellow inmate is impressive , as is JOHN RITTER ( whom I didn't even recognize at first ) as a sympathetic gay man , amazingly real in a serious role . ROBERT DUVALL has a cameo bit as an indifferent father that he plays faultlessly . Summing up : Brilliant film , highly recommended and involving a very touching relationship between the small boy and the retarded man .
Well documented docu-drama was never watched by Clinton . . .	The Clinton revisionists are still trying to put down this docu-drama which clearly states it's based not only on the Commission Report but on other source material . Indeed , ex-President Clinton has already gone on record saying he did not bother to watch it but looked at Sunday and Monday night football instead . So much for his ability to contradict it publicly . Whatever flaws it has , it gets the essence right . Personally , I see this as a mature piece of work based on the Commission Report AND OTHER SOURCES , which is what we're reminded of several times during the course of this quite accurate account of the painful events leading up to the day America was attacked by a hateful enemy . Whatever liberties have been taken , are well within the rights of any dramatist . The essence is true - - and that is , that Clinton's administration failed to come up with a plan capable of capturing Bin Laden when they had several opportunities to do exactly that . Thanks to faulty intelligence , we may never get him now . My commentary is based on Part I , which I viewed tonight - - but at least I've viewed what I'm talking about , which is more than I can say for those who haven't even viewed the film yet and have dared to express their biased viewpoints already . Freedom of speech is fine , but at least apply it to something that you're qualified to talk about . Harvey Keitel does an excellent job in the central role of John O'Neill , the FBI man who worked tirelessly with CIA and government operatives to come up with workable solutions to capture terrorists . There are no big names in the supporting cast , but they are all excellent , especially those in key roles . I'm told that Part II will deal with the weaknesses in our intelligence during the Bush administration , and I'm sure these facts will be divulged in a reasonably accurate manner - - just as those involving Clinton were handled . I think it looks foolish for the Democrats to object so strenuously to the essential facts of the case when all of their futile attempts to capture Bin Laden were admitted by Clinton himself , by his Secretary of State and others under his command . They're only succeeding in drawing even more attention to the faulty intelligence that was rampant during his administration . In the end , I have a feeling that all of their protests are only going to backfire against them . THE PATH TO is a thought provoking , sincere attempt to tell the story with as much accuracy as any docu-drama is supposed to do . I think it's safe to predict a number of Emmy nominations for this one . And on a purely political note : Why did the supposedly truth-seeking Democrats embrace Michael Moore and his " documentary " Farenheit when it was so stacked with slanderous lies and misrepresentations taken out of context to present a biased portrait of George Bush ? They never insisted on the truth when Moore's film opened . They willingly overlooking his many lies and distortions . Just look at how they reacted when the shoe was on the other foot ! They never insisted , as Bill Clinton does now , that the ABC dramatization should " just tell the truth " . What hypocrisy ! ! P . S . - Now having seen the entire two-part mini-series , I can add that Part II was even stronger in delivering a well-balanced look at other intelligence failures during the Bush administration . Lots of blame to be shared by both the Dems and the Republicans - - but at least now we've got the FBI and CIA sharing data and we've got Bush receiving daily briefings that were halted during the Clinton years at Bill's own request . Imagine that !
Fragile bittersweet romance amid gorgeous Italian settings . . .	" Summertime " is more of a mood piece than anything else . It captures the loneliness of a traveler in a foreign land , in this case a spinster who is hungry for love but too repressed to accept the love Rossano Brazzi offers . It has a bittersweet ending , appropriate for a thin story that sets the tone early on and never once makes us believe that Hepburn is going to find her true love in Venice . The photography is gorgeous and must have had everyone heading for the nearest travel bureau for a tour of Italy when the film was released . The performances are all excellent - - but the film belongs to Hepburn . She creates one of her most moving and truthful portraits - - sensitively showing us what this woman feels as she watches others pairing off for affairs , alone and unable to really connect . The sexual mores of the 1950s permeate the film - - the sexual revolution was just over the horizon but not yet evident . One of Hepburn's most subtle , yet affecting performances . With David Lean's sensitive direction , the gorgeous photography and the evocative background music , " Summertime " will put you under the spell of its fragile romance . Easy to see why Brazzi was the ultimate continental charmer .
Painting the forest green . . . a great behind the scenes look . . .	The newly restored DVD of THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD contains this documentary giving the viewer a behind the scenes glimpse of what was going on in the Hollywood of 1938 as Warners prepared to make their most expensive film up until then . Rudy Behlmer , Bob Thomas and Robert Osborne do a nice job of explaining the problems of script , casting , photography , change of directors , the previews and the enthusiastic way the film was greeted by critics and public . It was a resounding hit at the famous Radio City Music Hall in New York City when it opened in May of that year . Also interesting are the comments by Hollywood Bowl conductor John Mauceri who tells how interesting it was that Warners had under their studio three of the most famous film composers of that era : Erich Wolfgang Korngold , Max Steiner and Franz Waxman , all at the same time . He goes on to praise the score and explains how doing ROBIN HOOD became a lifesaver for Korngold and his family at a time when the Nazis were taking over his homeland of Austria . He even recites the story behind their escape on the last train leaving Germany before the invasion of Austria . ( Sounds like an echo of The Sound of Music's storyline ) . Fascinating , well researched , full of anecdotes that should fascinate any fan of this glorious film . As for my title comment , " Painting the forest green , " we discover that because the film began shooting in October of ' 37 , much of the forest had begun shifting to autumn colors , requiring the studio to paint some of the shrubbery a shimmering green to give it a summery look . And it worked . . . but any astute observer of the film can notice that in certain scenes there are definite sprinklings of autumn colors among the leaves . Interesting to note the fond friendship Basil Rathbone seemed to have for Olivia de Havilland in all of the candid shots .
Quite wonderful , but this blimp is a bit bloated . . .	If you want to see gorgeous Technicolor , lavish sets , fine performances ( ROGER LIVESEY , DEBORAH KERR ( in three roles ) and ANTON WALBROOK , then THE LIFE AND DEATH OF COLONEL BLIMP is your ticket . But beware , it is not a perfect film . It probably appealed much more to British audiences already aware of the famous comic strip " Colonel Blimp " which satirized a military man . Here , the satire has been preserved for a running time of almost three hours , and the film - - despite some marvelous scenes - - suffers from many scenes that should have been edited before the film went into general release . Furthermore , there is a decided British flavor to the whole thing which means that this is the sort of film which I'm sure has a much broader appeal to British audiences than American ones . The plot goes forward in a roundabout way , beginning at the end and then flashing back to the brash , youthful Colonel Candi full of daring , until it closes on the man who has become an anachronism among the military who dismiss his out of date methods during a field exercise and force him to retire . What's so remarkable about the production values are that this was Britain during the war when rationing and shortages of all kinds made film-making a very arduous task . You can detect none of this in the handsome Technicolor settings , even if some of the painted backdrops give a hint of some wartime austerity . Deborah Kerr's close-ups are as lovely as any she ever had during her lengthy career in American films - - but it is the two men , Roger Livesey and Anton Walbrook , who make the most of the meatiest roles . Walbrook has a very moving monologue toward the end of the film ( he's a German officer who reflects on his close ties to Britain and his good friend , the colonel ) , and Livesey gives a fully rounded portrayal ( yes , that's a pun ) of a blustery man that we see develop over a period of forty years from his arrogant youth to his stuffy old age . But the length of the film seems staggering at times - - it doesn't have the energy to move from scene to scene with anything but a snail's pace . This is the chief drawback of an otherwise excellent film .
Ghoulishly funny . . . Depp and Landau are superb . . .	Absolutely brilliant film on the bizarre and quirky cross-dressing filmmaker Ed Wood , played with boyish enthusiasm by JOHNNY DEPP in one of his most offbeat roles . He's the anchor who grounds the film in all its believable foolishness . Equally skillful are all the surrounding performances , including MARTIN LANDAU ( who deservedly won a Supporting Role Oscar ) , BILL MURRAY , who does amazing things with an underwritten role as a man eager to change his gender , JEFFREY JONES as Criswell , the Magician , and VINCENT D'ONOFRIO as Orson Welles . But it's the caring relationship between Depp and Landau that defines the comic genius of the film and gives it heart . Both are extremely moving and adept at showing the respect and regard they had for each other when their world seemed to be falling apart . The story doesn't flinch in showing Lugosi's fall from grace with his addiction to morphine and other drugs that eventually took his life . A near perfect recreation of the ' 50s Hollywood scene with its low budget studio settings , wisely photographed in the B & W manner of most of the Lugosi thrillers . Entertaining and genuinely funny , moving and absorbing all the way through . Summing up : One of Tim Burton's best directing jobs . Highest recommendation .
Probably the year's most enchanting romantic comedy . . .	What the world really needs in 2007 are more films with the ageless charm and wit of ENCHANTED . It's priceless entertainment from the Disney studios , providing plenty of chuckles and downright laughter as PATRICK DEMPSEY , AMY ADAMS , JAMES MARSDEN and SUSAN SARANDON go through the paces of their fairy-tale roles . What helps immeasurably is that the witty script has been given a sumptuous look in both the animated and real-life scenes and the musical score is fresh and appropriate , if not a bit familiar in that it seems to be borrowing heavily from other Disney films - - most of the time intentionally so . The script has the animated Giselle , a princess , being banished from the palace when her beauty surpasses that of Queen Narissa ( SUSAN SARANDON ) . She exiles her to an existence in hell - - make that New York City . Once in the city , after climbing out of a manhole cover in full princess regalia , the lovely princess ( AMY ADAMS in a cheerfully over the top performance ) , runs into all sorts of predicaments because she acts like someone who " just escaped from a Hallmark card " , according to the lawyer ( PATRICK DEMPSEY ) who gives her shelter for the night but soon finds himself forming a romantic attachment to her . It moves along at a brisk pace , is stunning to watch because the hand drawn animation is so beautifully rendered , and is fun all the way , with everyone giving their own brand of exuberance to the acting . SUSAN SARANDON is extremely effective as The Wicked Queen and her make-up as the old hag deserves an Oscar . JAMES MARSDEN has all the physical requirements for his role as Prince Edward and tops that with a performance modeled after the vain Gaston from " Beauty and the Beast " . There's no shortage of romantic chemistry between PATRICK DEMPSEY and AMY ADAMS in the leads , evident from their first awkward encounter to the final fadeout . Too bad Hollywood isn't capable of churning out more films like this one , as solid a romantic fantasy as anyone could wish for with lots of sly fun at the expense of other Disney classics and enough old-fashioned charm to satisfy adults and children .
Danny Kaye showcase has " the brew that is true " . . .	If you're a DANNY KAYE fan , you can't afford to miss this one . The highlight for me is the " vessel with the pestle " tongue-twisting routine that he carries off to perfection in his own inimitable way . That is , until it switches to " the flagon with the dragon " , at which point everyone is rightfully confused . So much plotting , I won't begin to describe this medieval romp . Just sit back and enjoy while Angela Lansbury ( looking very radiant and beautiful ) as Gwendolyn , Mildred Natwick as Griselda and Basil Rathbone as Ravenhurst ( reprising his role as Sir Guy of Gisbourne in THE ADV . OF ROBIN HOOD ) all try to play it straight as Kaye goes into one dizzy sequence after another . The technicolor photography is gorgeous to behold , the sets are jaw-droppingly expensive and thoroughly believable , and the lilting songs performed in clever style by Kaye and others more than compensate for any weaknesses . The final duel between Rathbone and Kaye , involving a spell that transforms Kaye into a super-swashbuckler at the snap of a finger , is extremely well staged for both comedy and excitement . Kaye proves his natural athletic grace and ability while Rathbone makes us yearn for the days when he was dueling Errol Flynn at Nottingham castle . All in all , a thorough delight from beginning to end . Glynis Johns is charming as Kaye's sweetheart but the real surprise is seeing a youthful Angela Lansbury looking like a storybook heroine with her flowing blond hair and blue eyes radiant in technicolor . The whole family should enjoy this one !
Fonda's martinet as central character puts a blight on the proceedings . . .	Perhaps one reason that made ' Fort Apache ' difficult to sit through for me , is the fact that Henry Fonda does a such a competent job as a totally unsympathetic , self-important , arrogant S . O . B . who through ignorance sends his cavalry to certain death . Fonda is such a martinet in manner and speech that his character constantly hampers our enjoyment of what should be a magnificent western . Dislike of his poor military judgment prevents full enjoyment of the plot which seems to accent this flawed character to such an extent that we are unable to otherwise fully enjoy the validity of this robust western . And incidentally , although the black and white photography is impressive , this is one western that deserved to be filmed in the then vivid technicolor of the late ' 40s . Perhaps the high-powered cast was too expensive to allow further costs . Nevertheless , even in black and white it's a colorful western with John Wayne , Shirley Temple , John Agar , Victor McLaglen , Irene Rich and Dick Foran each seen to advantage , as are the many supporting players . The story builds to a suspenseful climax of cavalry vs . Indians . McLaglen is superb , as always , even though he plays a rather clichéd characterization that seems borrowed from dozens of other Ford films and it's charming to see him reunited with his " Wee Willie Winkie " co-star , Shirley Temple . Temple is charming as the spunky daughter of Col . Fonda and John Agar makes a pleasing debut as her romantic interest . John Wayne gives his usual sturdy performance as a hero we can root for whenever Fonda's character becomes too offensive . Too bad the whole story has to revolve around such a despicable character , played to the hilt by Fonda . But fans of John Ford's westerns are certain to give this one a high rating .
Dreamy Faye and the genius of Busby Berkeley in vintage lavish musical . . .	Some of ALICE FAYE's close-ups in THE GANG'S ALL HERE convince me that Technicolor was made to show off the charms of certain actresses - - as Fox well knew with such beauties as Betty Grable and Linda Darnell under contract . Faye's blue eyes get all misty-eyed when she sings a ballad - - and when she's supported by someone like CARMEN MIRANDA for colorful contrast , well - - you can bet it's a musical worth seeing and hearing . In this case - - mostly worth seeing because of Busby Berkeley's magical treatment of all the musical numbers . Who can ever forget CARMEN MIRANDA and all those waving bananas ? ? ? Or the kaleidoscope effect of several top numbers in an imaginative use of color and camera effects , the kind that only Berkeley was a master of . The flimsy plot is strictly by the numbers and practically non-existent in a boy meets girl , boy loses girl , boy wins girl sort of way . JAMES ELLISON is a poor substitute for Fox's contract player John Payne , who must have been busy on another assignment when the cast was assembled . And PHIL BAKER is totally wasted . But it's not too much of a distraction when the gaudy splashes of color , music and just downright fun provided by Faye , Miranda , Eugene Palette , Edward Everett Horton and Charlotte Greenwood come to the fore . This is typical Fox escapism made for entertainment during World War II when the troops were all salivating over the Fox pin-up girls . Alice Faye is at her most attractive with her warm contralto voice showcased in a couple of hokey ballads and when she gazes heavenly toward some unseen spirit she practically melts the camera lens . She's luscious and so is the film . And if you're a CARMEN MIRANDA fan , you can't afford to miss this one . Her " Tutti Frutti " number is a knockout and Benny Goodman and his band provide solid musical back-up . Just don't expect reality to butt in at any point during the silly plot . Trivia note : That's ADELE JERGENS in the background of girls .
A stunning comeback for Ingrid Bergman . . . Hayes deserved Oscar too . . .	The biggest conceit of ANASTASIA is the fact that the reunion scene , beautifully played by INGRID BERGMAN and HELEN HAYES , never took place in history . This is a romanticized version of what Anastasia's story should have been - - but was not . Nevertheless , giving credit where it's due , this is a completely absorbing , well acted version of the famous Anastasia legend . In 1956 it served as a stunning comeback for the exiled Ingrid Bergman , returning to America after a storm of controversy surrounding her affair with Italian film director Roberto Rossellini . Her career under his guidance was not entirely successful after starring in a mixed bag of Italian films . For slightly more accuracy , you might want to view a harsher version of the story , ANASTASIA : THE MYSTERY OF ANNA ( ' 86 ) which starred Amy Irving as the enigmatic heroine and Olivia de Havilland as the Dowager Empress who refused to meet her . It was given lush production values but had its share of fictional plotting to tell an equally absorbing story not entirely based on truth . As a vehicle for Ingrid Bergman's return to the American screen , she couldn't have been more fortunate . Not only does she give an inspired performance but she is surrounded by first class talent in every department of film-making . Helen Hayes , as the Dowager Empress , should have been awarded with her own Supporting Role Oscar as Best Actress . She is even more impressive here than she was as the stowaway in AIRPORT . Her final encounter with Bergman is played with dignity and restraint by both actresses . Yul Brynner does nicely in his fictional role and Martita Hunt gives the film's other most noteworthy performance as the Baroness . Alfred Newman's score perfectly captures the mood and atmosphere of the tale , as does the superb CinemaScope photography . Highly recommended , particularly for Bergman fans . Sadly , we know now that the woman who claimed to be Anastasia was not really so - - but I suppose this fact will not diminish your enjoyment of the film .
Imperfect film noir never gets near the real " Chinatown " . . .	It's surprising that for all the slavish attention to period detail that Roman Polanski puts into CHINATOWN , he lets down the audience in the finale which is supposed to take place in the actual Chinatown at night . Instead , it looks ( as the original review in The New York Times pointed out ) , more like Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn with a few neon signs flickering in the background for Oriental flavor , filmed on an artificial , improvised set . It's a letdown when the film's most crucial moments aren't given the careful period flavor that goes into the majority of the piece . It's also unworthy of the film's final line : " Forget it , Jake . It's Chinatown . " Robert Foote's screenplay owes a great deal to Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett , both expert writers of crime detective fiction full of sardonic humor and double entendre remarks , usually delivered in deadpan manner by whomever was playing the male detective . In both CHINATOWN and THE MALTESE FALCON , a private eye gets involved in a messy case involving murder and other assorted mayhem , drawn into the case by a cool femme fatale who knows more than she's saying , and a cast of mostly unsavory characters living in the fringes of L . A . ' s Chinatown area where crime in the 1930s is rampant . In this case , the cynical , hard-nosed detective is played to perfection by JACK NICHOLSON in the kind of role he excelled in , justly winning a Best Actor nomination . And likewise , the inscrutable dame is played by FAYE DUNAWAY in the sort of part Mary Astor essayed in " The Maltese Falcon " . Instead of Sydney Greenstreet , we get JOHN HUSTON in the role of her megalomaniac , corrupt father . And keeping all of this fascinating material well in hand is Roman Polanski , himself a player in the film as the hood who slashes Nicholson's nose . It's gritty , authentic looking ( except for the above-mentioned flaw ) and captures the mood of the story with its Los Angeles backgrounds and detailed attention to ' 30s styles . Visually , it's a masterpiece - - and while the story gets a little slow once in awhile in uncovering a convoluted plot involving land rights and water control , it leads to a highly suspenseful ending . A stylish thriller , well worth watching , especially if you love film noir . But somehow , Bogie's image hovers over most of the dialog and it falls far short of being called a " masterpiece " as many have done here . A more concise , compact telling of the tale would have made that description more apt instead of this long , rambling story with its engineering background and slow revelations .
The most sublime of all the MacDonald / Eddy operettas . . .	" Lavish " must have been a word expressly invented for MGM's musical movies of the ' 30s , ' 40s and ' 50s . There is no other word to describe how richly produced this film is for the singing sweethearts . In fact , the visual splendor is so glorious in B & W that you can't help thinking how much more glorious the whole thing would have been in the kind of Technicolor MGM bestowed the following year on SWEETHEARTS . Not only lavish production-wise , but populated with so many singing extras and townspeople that you have to wonder what today's movie fans think of this sort of extravaganza produced in broad operetta style . The story is heavy on romantic sentiment , scented with cherry blossoms during the early scenes and pretty looking snowflakes for the finale when the melodrama turns up the dramatics and the dreamy love affair is smashed by a fatal shot . Jeanette and Nelson may not have lingered for a farewell kiss , except that they do in the afterlife ending . For the finale , the cherry blossoms are falling again and it's all so Happy Valentine in conception that you can't help wondering how this is going over today except for the die-hard Jeannete and Nelson fans . For those fans , this must be one of the most heavenly of all their films together . They sing everything from " Carry Me Back to Old Virginny " to operatic duos and the haunting " Will You Remember ? " , both in what seems like splendid voice . Jeanette is particularly lovely to look at while she sings " Les Filles de Cadiz " in a spectacular white ballgown that would be the envy of Marie Antoinette . Jeanette gives a fine performance , carrying the film from the start with her turn as an old lady recalling her romance with a young operatic baritone . John Barrymore is on hand as her would-be lover , although one is never quite sure when he's reading his lines off a cue card over her shoulder . He was then at a critical stage of his personal demons . For MacDonald / Eddy fans this is a pure delight . Others beware .
Kelly's brilliant career given a complete overview . . .	GENE KELLY was one of a kind and this documentary celebrates his faults as well as his virtues , refreshing because it's not just a gushing fan tribute to a great actor / dancer who made dancing look as macho as it did when he embraced it with his physical athleticism , the embodiment of the blue collar guy rather than the aristocratic finesse of the other screen great , FRED ASTAIRE . Different styles , different personalities . And while it has some highly laudatory comments from his co-workers and co-stars , as well as some incisive comments from his longtime ex-wife Betsy Blair , it does reveal the man's flaws rooted in his quest for perfectionism . It also reveals that the longtime collaboration with director / choreographer Stanley Donen became a bitter one by the time they did IT'S ONLY FAIR WEATHER , after which the two never spoke again . Stanley Donen has been interviewed several times on TV , never discussing his professional relationship with Kelly in much detail , but revealing a condescending attitude toward another MGM star of that period - - ESTHER WILLIAMS - - whom neither Kelly nor he wanted for TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME and both of them deriding her as not up to their standard of what they expected in a co-star . As it turns out , Esther gave them a charming performance in the film , but she herself related some stories about how unkind their on set behavior could be . Sorry for digressing , but it gives you a hint of what both Kelly and Donen could be like in this documentary . DEBBIE REYNOLDS tells how she was in tears much of the time on SINGIN ' IN THE RAIN because Kelly insisted on hours and hours of rehearsals for the dance numbers and she was a novice in that department - - but then says she learned an awful lot from Kelly's sense of discipline . CYD CHARISSE says her husband could always tell whether she'd been dancing on a film with either Kelly or Astaire - - if she had bruises , it was with Gene . Things like that give you an idea of his working style , but you have to connect the dots . As for the documentary , it's brilliant . All the highlights you'd want to see from Kelly's most famous hits are there : including his fabulous dance number with Garland for FOR ME AND MY GAL , COVER GIRL ( with Rita Hayworth including the alter ego dance routine ) , ANCHORS AWEIGH ( with the cartoon mouse Jerry ) , ON THE TOWN , SINGIN ' IN THE RAIN , AN American IN Paris and IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER , as well as other minor clips from his other works . Among the most interesting clips : amateur movies shot in color of Gene's breakthrough performance on Broadway in PAL JOEY , showing the style and energy that would turn him into an immediate overnight star once he set foot onto the MGM lot .
Atmospheric old dark house thriller . . . quiet but deadly . . .	For sheer mastery in the art of black and white photography and its ability to provide the shadowy atmosphere necessary for mood , they don't come any better than this . The house alone is as much a part of the plot as the actors - - but everything clicks . . . the acting , the script , the story , the direction and the brooding atmosphere that lets you know you're in for an intense and absorbingly suspenseful story . All of the suspense is relieved occasionally with just the right amount of humor . Particularly by Elsa Lanchester as the housekeeper who uses trickery to steal an extra bottle of liquor from the wine cellar . While thunder and lightning storms outside the mansion , we know that a serial killer is lurking on or near the premises , one who specializes in murdering women with physical afflictions . At the center of the story is Dorothy McGuire's character , a mute girl who lost her voice years ago during a traumatic experience . Around her are a number of people , all of whom become suspicious as the plot thickens - - Kent Smith , Rhonda Fleming , George Brent , Ethel Barrymore and Gordon Oliver . Ethel Barrymore is especially good as a frightened old woman , bedridden and suspicious enough of everyone . For comparison , view the recent color TV adaptation , bland in overall effect . It will make you appreciate this black and white classic more than ever . As with most remakes , it doesn't stand a chance against the original . My only complaint is that DOROTHY McGUIRE does not have much range in her expressions . Wide-eyed , but seldom wild , her restraint limits the amount of fear her character can express without using her voice . A more over-the-top performance might have been more useful , given the Gothic mood created so well by director Robert Siodmak . She is overshadowed by Ethel Barrymore as a bed-ridden invalid urging her to leave the house and Gordon Oliver , as the playboy step-brother who plays his role to the hilt . GEORGE BRENT does nicely for the most part , but seems too laid back in the final scenes to be as menacing as he is meant to be . Still , well worth watching for its shadowy Victorian atmosphere alone .
New DVD version is a full restoration of sight and sound . . . brilliant achievement !	' Ben-Hur ' is such a great film , it's a pleasure to report that the newly restored Wide Screen 4-Disc DVD version ( which includes the 1925 silent screen film with Ramon Novarro ) is right on the mark . The color has been restored to its original brilliance with every scene clearly in focus and the soundtrack gives full range to Miklos Rozsa's impressive score . More than ever , Rozsa's score seems to have an energy and force of its own , underlining all the drama inherent in a story of this kind . And Charlton Heston's work in the title role is sheer perfection . He captures the character so completely that he IS Ben-Hur . Not often does such an epic have human characters that are not dwarfed by all the spectacle . The characters are all fully-dimensional human beings - - particularly the two antagonists ( Judah Ben-Hur and Messala ) , once great friends but now divided by political loyalties . Charlton Heston and Stephen Boyd are outstanding in the leads ( Boyd should definitely have won an Oscar as Messala for his chilling death scene alone ! ) . All the other important roles are flawlessly cast . The chariot race is the most explosive and breathtaking seventeen minutes ever given to such a spectacular event - - and all of the stunts look perfectly real . It's hard to believe that none of the stunts ended with more than minor injuries . The final scene , which follows soon after the chariot race , with Ben-Hur returning home and slowly climbing the steps to find that his mother and sister have been cured , still gives me goose bumps when I see it . As does the poignant scene in the leper colony where he insists on seeing their cave dwelling . Both scenes are strongly bolstered by Miklos Rozsa's brilliant score . Fully deserved all the awards it won . Should be released theatrically to show folks that even in 1959 , Hollywood had all the technical skill to bring something like this off - - with spectacular results ! But in the meantime , this newly restored DVD is a keeper .
Enchantment , thrills , spectacle . . . looks great on DVD . . .	On the one hand there are many delightful moments in THE POLAR EXPRESS , not the least of which is the entire look of the film - - appealing in a way that great illustrations of children's books always are to young and old . Tom Hanks and the others enter into the spirit of the whole thing with gusto - - and all the performances are right on target . On the other hand , much of the film is an excuse to dazzle with roller-coaster-like rides on the express train that roars across various landscapes making wild leaps and turns , all the while thrilling us with a sense of adventure and excitement . For the very young , the ride might be a scary one , especially when the daring young hero rides atop the train during a blustery snowstorm . Things barely quiet down once the destination is reached at the North Pole . Still there are dangers lurking and the thrills continue with some amazing photographic tricks that can only be done in this new process of computer generated animation . And to add a cozier touch to the proceedings , certain famous Christmas songs are interjected at intervals to give the North Pole - - and the film - - a warmer glow . All in all , quite an imaginative and innovative achievement - - impressive enough to assure its place among future Christmas favorites with unlimited appeal for the young in heart . The message of Christmas is lightly hinted at but when Tom Hanks as the train conductor tells the little boy , " The true meaning of Christmas is in your heart , " we can be assured that children everywhere will definitely " get it " . Visually , it's a stunner . I didn't see it on the IMAX screen where I imagine it really knocks your socks off , but at a multiplex where picture and sound were impressive enough to convey just how advanced special effects technology has become . There is much artistry involved here , especially when the night scenes of the train's fast-moving travel through a blustery snowstorm capture some rich winter landscapes , including a frozen lake that threatens to demolish train and passengers before danger has passed . The camera-work is continually fascinating as is the artwork involved . A pity there couldn't have been more of a story in the children's book which is the source - - but the artistic visuals are the main source of entertainment here and they are superb . The busy background score by Alan Silvestri is reminiscent of works by John Williams . Although none of the sprightly song tunes are particularly memorable , there is a wistful quality to one of the new Christmas ballads sung by the children . P . S . - I have just watched it on DVD , a year after writing the above review - - and it's definitely a keeper - - just as wonderful as you could want , an amazing technological achievement that should delight all ages who can still hear that bell ! Tom Hanks , as the conductor , is my favorite character - - brilliant job .
Let's get serious . . . the real Batman has arrived ! . . .	BATMAN BEGINS lives up to what I heard about it being a " darker " version , with much less reliance on flippant one-liners or gags , the result being a more realistic feel for what might have been . From the very start , there is a nice chemistry between Alfred , the butler ( superbly played by Michael Caine ) and Bruce Wayne ( excellent job by Christian Bale ) . The humor is of the gentle kind , almost subtle in its implications , and it sets the stage for the more realistic flow of events to follow . There's a pulsating background score by Hans Zimmer and John Newton Howard that races along with the film , punctuating it in just the right places , at just the right moments , to give a vigorous punch to the action scenes . And there are plenty of them . But the quieter moments are all extremely well played and given depth by real characterizations - - not just cartoonish figures . There is depth in all of the performances with the possible exception of Katie Holmes , an actress who speaks in a voice barely above a whisper and fails to project the belief that she is an assistant district attorney . Miss Holmes needs lessons in projecting her voice . Looming over the landscape is Liam Neeson , a distinguished actor who excels in his carefully concealed villainy . He is a force to be reckoned with and displays all of his versatility here . Equally effective in lesser roles are Morgan Freeman , Rutger Hauer as the Board Chairman that Bruce Wayne ultimately replaces , and Gary Oldman . The story is forcefully presented with magnificent visuals and eye-popping sets that all have a realistic gleam and are yet stylized enough to give credence to the fact that this is all based on a comic strip character . I can't praise Christian Bale enough as the man who dons that mask . He has all the strength and wily intelligence behind his serious good looks and makes the perfect embodiment of the action hero he is portraying . Firm of jaw , direct of gaze , he makes an excellent hero . Praise too for Cillian Murphy , who makes the most of his Scarecrow role behind a mask of creepy blandness , underplaying his role ( as most of the others do ) so as not to become a caricature , as so often happens in these Batman enterprises . If it's a series of running gags that you expect - - as from previous Batmans - - you won't find them here . The thrills come one after another , set pieces that are astounding to watch . Well worth the wait . Christopher Nolan has done an excellent job of handling his subject matter with great skill and flourish . Warning note : Perhaps a little too intense for children , but adults are certainly going to appreciate the fact that the real Batman has arrived .
Welcome to Sherwood , my lady !	If there is any film that Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland will be remembered for ( as screen partners ) it's ' The Adventures of Robin Hood ' . It has become one of the most beloved storybook films of all time - - action , romance , majestic sets and music , a sparkling script with many juicy lines and all of the swashbuckling swordplay done with great flourish and style . The highlight of the many action scenes is the duel between Flynn and Rathbone as they overturn heavy tables and candelabra , all the while exchanging some blustery dialogue . As for Flynn and de Havilland , their screen chemistry was never more obvious . Claude Rains and Basil Rathbone make a memorable pair of villains and the remarkable cast includes sterling performances from Melville Cooper , Ian Hunter , Una O'Connor , Alan Hale , Eugene Palette , Montagu Love and Patric Knowles . It's a fairytale version all done up in gleaming technicolor , the action and romance made even more impressive by Korngold's exquisite Oscar-winning score . The romantic highlight is the scene in Marian's bedchamber , a Romeo-and-Juliet-like moment with Flynn climbing a vine to her balcony to woo his damsel in distress . The archery tournament sequence is a joy to behold - - and de Havilland was never more beautifully photographed than in her reaction close-ups as she realizes the tournament is a trap . Una O'Connor is a joy as her loyal servant and Alan Hale makes a wonderful Little John . In fact , all of the supporting roles are perfectly cast . Rousing entertainment that has charmed the socks off everyone since its release in 1938 and outclasses the Kevin Costner version in every way possible . Long live the bandit of Sherwood Forest ! ! And last but not least , Erich Wolfgang Korngold's classic score remains one of the finest film scores ever , sweeping , majestic and always complimenting the on-screen action and romance . The new Ultra-Resolution process on the 2-Disc DVD gives an image that is probably better than when actually released in 1938 , when it opened to rave reviews at Radio City Music Hall .
