Wild world of bad .	This is one bad , bad , bad film . I don't even know where to start . For one thing is it supposed to be a comedy or what . It starts so seriously , then it deteriotes into slapstick . And not very funny slapstick at that . The plot revolves around this cult who fight crime , and not very effectively I might add . At one point two of the gals just stand there and watch a man get shot and then report it to Batwoman ( who basically sits on her behind ) . At that point it is a little late to help the guy who has been shot . I could go on , but lets just say the movie gets more silly as Batwoman faces off against a Mexican wrestler wannabe , clips from the movie Mole People are shown , and lets not forget the atomic powered hearing aid .
A name for Yawn !	From what I read in the tv guide it sounded like it might be a rather interesting haunted house movie . Instead it is perhaps one of the most boring movies ever filmed . The plot is muddled and really makes no sense , it is very slow paced , and there are very few instances of supernatural going ons . Instead the most we see is a shadow moving here and there and a stupid horse . This makes " The Amityville Horror " look like an Italian horror film splatter fest . The plot , couple moves into an old house that belonged to the guy's great grandfather . You figure out the rest . Apparently , the ghost is haunting the place , but nothing much happens . Even the end makes very little sense . Why this movie was entitled " A Name For Evil " is beyond me . Well that was the name of the book , but I hope the book had more going on than happened here . I have to say avoid this movie at all cost . It is almost to painful to sit through , you will feel like taking a nap in the middle of it and by golly you will not miss a thing . I can not believe this movie was on amc , because it is not an american classic .
Even worse than the first one .	This movie is even worse than the first one , and for many reasons . This one has Shredder mysteriously alive after his fall . He finds the stuff that mutates creatures so he makes a couple of mutant monsters to fight the turtles . He also looks cooler than the first one as well . Unfortunately , though this one is aimed more for the youngsters so it is even harder to sit through than the first one . SpoilerThen there is the ending . If you thought the fight between Shredder and the turtles was anticlimactic in the first one you haven't seen anything yet . In this one he takes the ooze and becomes super Shredder . Do the turtles fight him in this form ? No , he is under a pier and he just knocks some posts down so the pier falls on him and he dies . Yes , the Super Shredder apparently can't survive something a normal person would have a change surviving yet he can fall 20 stories and land in a garbage truck and be crushed and survive . This movie is just terrible
Evil movie , evil cast . . . I hope a tree falls on them !	Yes this movie features a gal named Jessica who says everything is evil and she causes trees to land on people too ( well she only causes a tree to fall once , but she does say everything is evil ) . This movie is about a farm that apparently rents out rooms to people , but offers little else in the way of entertainment . Jessica can find things with a stick and she finds the head of an evil guy . Of course they don't know this until the owner of the farm's helpers open the box containing the head . The head proceeds to hypnotize everyone it can so it can get to Jessica and use her powers to find stuff to help look for his body . This movie has an interesting enough story , but it plays out very bad here . Everyone in this flick will get on your nerves at least once .
It is not set in the future , and there is no war .	This movie's title is a bit misleading . It is really about a Van Dame look alike ( though smaller and a worse accent ) who has escaped to earth and is fleeing cyborgs ( who sometimes wear white make up and sometimes don't ) and dinosaurs ( clearly puppets ) . If this sounds good to you then go for it . If it doesn't then watch it anyways because it is good for a few laughs . For one the dinosaurs are kinda easy to kill . The Van Dame guy has a small knife at one point and takes one out . The plot about the nun who had doubts about her faith were pointless in this context . Then there is the all plaid gang who go into the very dry sewers ( it looks like they are in a barn ) to tackle the dinosaurs . Then of course the Van Dame guy does a lot of karate and fights the dreaded cyborgs who all are a bit pudgy and won't make anyone recall the Terminator movies , even though one does attack a police station .
This is not a movie .	I had the misfortune to see this movie , and the first thing I have to say about it is that it is not a movie . It is filmed with a hand held recorder and it has no plot and it is just asinine . Why it is called a drama and not a comedy is beyond me . . . well maybe because it is not funny . I can't even believe it is listed here at imdb , I realize they have a huge assortment of movies , but " the Blair Witch Project " has better film quality than this mess . This one was also shot in Alabama , in the area where I live , which is one of the reasons I have seen it . I actually know someone who was in it , and I have to wonder why in God's name they were . And to all prospective film makers , if all you have is a very miniscule budget and a video camera then make a horror movie . They tend to look less cheesy than an ordinary movie would shot under these circumstances . And I have to say just one last time ; a movie with a guy shooting random things is not a movie .
How does a museum curator buy his own island ?	This movie is about a groovy bunch of kids who go on this island and are taken in by this man who likes to hunt . All they need is a dog and it is Scooby-Doo . Well this man turns out to be crazy and he loves hunting to the point of hunting down people . He was a museum curator then he went into the military and how on either of those two salaries he can afford his own island is beyond me . He sends the two boys into the woods with the boatman who was showing the kids around and he keeps the girls for himself . In the end you will wonder how this guy has killed anyone because he doesn't seem that good of a hunter .
Not much terror from 5000 , let me tell ya .	The movies title is a bit misleading in that there isn't much terror in this movie . In fact , there isn't much of anything going on till the last maybe 20 minutes of this flick . A museum curator gets a mysterious statue and is asked to test it for its age . Somehow he finds out it comes from the future . I don't know if I am right on this point , but I don't believe you can tell if something comes from the future . . . only how old something is . Well , he also finds out it is highly radioactive so he goes to this professor's house where the statue came from . There the professor and his extremely stupid assistant are doing , of course , time travel experiments . Since the statue was radioactive the professor wants to stop the experiments for the time being , but the stupid assistant wants to keep going . His fiancé eventually goes with the curator and the assistant summons a mutant from the year 5000 , which kills people for no reason and then convinces the assistant to go with her to the year 5000 and help out their people . She steals a nurse's face before this and uses it as a mask as she is a bit mutated . All in all a pretty lousy sci-fi flick that has so many inaccuracies it is pathetic .
Pointless	That is the best way to describe Laserblast . This movie just is nothing . It is about a kid who for some reason is picked on by cops and two dorks , guy finds laser gun and gets revenge . That is about all there is to it . Meanwhile they throw in a couple of plot points that are never worked out in the movie . The kids mom goes on a vacation or something and the kid seems to have issues with this , but it isn't used in the rest of the film . You have a stranger in town who flashes some sort of badge , but you never find out what agency he works for or why he even knows how to search for aliens in the town . Then there are the stupid looking aliens made out of clay . I could design better creatures than that . Then there is the pointless cameo of Roddy McDowell and I am guessing he probably took most of the budget of the film . And enough people have talked about the Star Wars sign blowing up . Anyway if you want to see a plotless movie about a green faced kid stumbling around and blowing up random objects then this is your flick .
Oh my god . . . he does the voice of Frosty .	Yes , it has been awhile since I saw this one , but one thing still sticks out . The fact that the guy who does the voice of Frosty the Snowman plays a deranged perv who kills women and eats them . For the most part a very poorly done movie . You would think in a movie that is basically about cannibalism that there would be lots of gore . Not in this one . This one is almost totally a comedy , though it won't make you laugh all that much let me tell ya . A guy whose wife can't cook finally goes berserk and kills her in a rage . He has no recollection of this rage and finds her dead body in the microwave where he decides to heat her up . Let me say this is one big microwave cause her entire body fits in it . Then he grabs something to eat , I think the next day . He accidentally grabs her arm I think and starts chomping away . He finally realizes what he is eating , but it apparently tastes so good he doesn't mind . The ending to this one is pretty out there , but then this entire movie is out there . You keep seeing Frosty going " Happy Birthday " !
What is up with this movie ?	This is just a bad movie . There is no way to sugar coat it . The plot is apparently set in a future where people aren't allowed to watch TV , but they are allowed to have their minds placed in animals for fun . Or in the case of Raul Julia be forced to have your mind placed in a animal because you watched tv . Then that gets botched so he is placed in a virtual reality simulation where he doesn't do much except try and act out Casablanca and reprogram the computer . In the meantime there are a lot of made up words ( flavo fives or something ) and alot of not much happening . Why Raul Julia agreed to be in this is beyond me . Though anyone who would agree to be in Street Fighter would appear in anything I guess .
This one almost made me not watch the first .	This movie is so horrible that I almost never watched the first one . I finally broke down though and watched the first one and loved it . This one though is just bad . . . as it mainly involves Renee being terrorized by Matthew . That is basically all you see . It sort of mirrors the first one , but then it doesn't . In that one Leatherface was an important character . . . here he is a cross dresser . Matthew who is playing the hitchhiker role from the first one is the main attraction and it just doesn't equal all that much terror this time around . I don't think a single person was killed with a chainsaw , unless it happened within the first 10 or so minutes that I missed before tuning in . My advice is skip this one and don't even watch it until you have seen the first one . If you want to see it after that it is up to you cause there are some positive reviews to be found for this one . For me , though , this one was awful .
How did I get dragged to this movie ?	First off , let me say I hate musicals and don't blame me for hating this one as well . I somehow got talked into seeing this one by a friend so if you don't like what I have to say blame him and his ex girlfriend . I just thought this was one of the most boring flicks ever , the songs stunk and the story did as well too . It of course focuses on Eva Peron who the movie makes out to be a saint , I won't go into it since there may be those who are offended by the truth , let's just say she wasn't . Banderos character was sort of the narrator , and he does a lousy job at it as I found myself wondering what the heck was happening . Let's just say I wasn't crying for her at the end as I would have walked out of the theater an hour and a half earlier if my friends weren't my ride . Though it taught me a lesson , don't go to a film you don't want to go to cause you won't enjoy yourself .
Refinery Mutiny .	This movie is so bad it is hard to figure out where to start . I guess I will start with the set designs . All the action in this flick is supposed to be taking place in a spaceship , but not one set looks like it is on a spaceship . The bridge looks like a college's computer lab , these women are taken to a room that looks like an empty classroom and you can see sunlight coming through the window , they go to this futuristic bar that looks like a bar with lame decorations , and most of the action apparently takes place in a refinery that looks like it has no business being in a spaceship . Then we have the hero and the heroine who start off hating each other in one scene then loving each other the next . And speaking of the heroine , she is obviously an older woman playing the role of a twenty year old in fact I think that the man playing her father is probably close to her age . You have the evil Pat Riley look alike who is trying to take over the ship , and he rides around in bumper cars that any fit person can outrun . Then there are the Bellarians ( space witches ) that serve no purpose , but are nice to look at and they use those globes from Spencer's Gifts . The commander of the ship looks like Santa Claus , a woman killed in one scene is at her terminal the next , and if you watch this movie you will wonder why anyone would waste their time with watching it .
At least the box looks ok .	This is your typical bad movie . It is hard where to start . For one is the moon . The moon is apparently full for a couple of weeks at a time . I mean they go through multiple nights in this movie and every darned night there is a full moon . Then there is the fact that the werewolf looks different everytime you see it . Sometimes it looks like a bear , sometimes an ape , sometimes a cat , but rarely like a wolf . The actors are all bad , and one of them can't decide on his hairstyle , he changes it as often as the werewolf changes appearance . At some points in the film you can't hear what the people are saying , in others you can't see them that well . In the end just try to avoid this movie at all costs .
Griffin , Landis , and Cook have no idea what they are doing .	This is the most jumbled movie I have ever seen . It is badly edited , grainy , and the acting is bad . It also seems to have no story whatsoever . It apparently centers around three guys : one an escaped convict ( Griffin ) , and the other two excons ( Landis and Cook ) . They ride the countryside getting into all these stupid and avoidable situtions . How they got suckered into going to Cuba is anyone's guess . And I wonder are we supposed to be rooting for these guys . I mean they mercilessly throw one guy down a well . Oh well what can you expect . There is a suprise at the end , but the guys of MST 3000 said not to reveal it .
Sorry , but an adult film should not make one go ewwww .	Yes , this film gets a lot of attention and is considered a classic in the adult film genre . Still , I did not like this one at all . About a woman who commits suicide in a scene more fitting a horror movie , she is given the opportunity to return to earth briefly to live the life of lust she never did before in her mundane life . Crappy sex scenes to follow . Why are they crappy , for one they try so hard to be artistic that they take away from the actual sex act . I mean we watch porn for the sex do we not . Little Girls Blue also does things in an artistic way , but it is still very erotic and nice to look at . Of course the girls in that one are very cute . Here we have a rather unattractive lead actress and that does not help things . If you find the lead in your adult film unappealing there is no amount of artistic vision that is going to make me enjoy the film . The sex scenes range from yuck to bizarre . . . I mean there is a snake in one of them people . So for me this movie just fails as it does not excite me at all , but rather turns me off .
What the heck ?	This movie based on a fighting game actually has very little martial arts action in it . Instead it has a very bad plot and lots of bad comedy and Raul Julia in his last role doing a bad job as Bison . Van Dame sucks too , but that is no surprise . . . what really makes this movie bad though is the almost complete lack of fighting . And why is Raul Julia Bison . . . Raul hasn't exactly made a career playing super tough fighters has he . Seeing him fight Van Dame in the end is laughable . They also try to squeeze every Street Fighter character into the movie they can which doesn't help the plot along . All in all this movie is pretty bad and if you watch it don't expect to much " Street Fighting " .
Is that Martin Sheen ?	That is the first question I asked myself when I watched the last half hour of this really bad film . I did so without the help of Mike and the bots , and the only reason I did so was to find out if Martin Sheen was really in this turkey . I went through that entire ending sequence to find out it was not Sheen , but Joe Estavez the more talented of the two in another universe . I would never have dreamed of watching the whole thing , but then MST 3000 did a show of it and I had to watch . The whole story revolves around a bunch of kids destined to die in a car wreck and the Soultaker aka the Man aka Joel Estevez has to get their souls . One really stupid thing about that is that the Man is what caused them to crash in the first place , so were they really destined to die ? Throughout the rest of the film the kids souls run from the soultaker because they were apparently dislodged from their bodies . During this time you will find so many problems with this plot and other things that you will wonder why the gal who wrote this actually starred in this knowing what she was writing . Did she think it sounded good ?
You will awake from this movie feeling unrefreshed .	This movie is about an evil hypnotist who has a worse act than that of the Great Vorelli from " The Devil Doll " . The hypnotist known as Dr Carlo Lombardi puts a woman under hypnosis asks her questions and she answers . . . great show , eh ? Amazingly he makes a living doing this . He can also use the woman to call forth a creature from the ocean to kill . He doesn't really have a reason for doing this other than a hobby . Meanwhile another hypnotist who is also a researcher is staying at a house where an older couple and their daughter live . The couple is rich and the daughter really likes this guy , but he apparently hates these people , which begs the question " why is he staying with them in the first place ? " There are also some cops looking into the deaths of people killed by the creature and the rich old guy makes a deal with Lombardi to bring his act of asking questions on the road . The hero of the story Lance Fuller who is the guy who really shouldn't be staying with the rich people falls in love with the woman who is hypnotized . There is a dog and also an unfunny butler and maid . . . all in all a rather talky movie with a lame monster that appears here and there .
Long title , it has more depth than the movie .	This movie starts off with a crazy fortune teller who throws acid on this guys face because he won't have sex with her ( and you can't blame him ) . It then features a couple of losers who go and pick up a girl and they go to an amusement park . From there they go into a strip show where apparently only one woman strips , but before you see her you get to see a very annoying stage show . The boy wants to see the lead girl so he follows her after the show where he is hypnotized by the crazed fortune teller and as you can see it is just stupid . I don't want to give the movie away , but lets just say it isn't good . Having to watch the stage shows gets old , but it beats listening to this one dude in the film who has the most annoying accent . The lead guy sort of looks like a warped Nicolas Cage , and the zombies are really just guys who the fortune teller has thrown acid on . If someone is a zombie then they are dead , these guys are not . And apparently it is alright to shoot unarmed people if they are slighty deformed .
The phantom planet looks like it is extra crispy	Yes , this is the movie about a mysterious planet that looks a lot like a piece of chicken , extra crispy . . . not original recipe . The plot is a space craft disappears so another one is sent out to find what happened . Well they find a planet . . . one crew member dead the other lands on the planet . There he shrinks down in size when his mask opens and there is a small review of the movie up to that point . What he finds as a small guy is a race of people who really want him to stay to the point of offering him two women to choose from . Well our hero will have none of that , as he wants to go home no matter what , so he disrupts these people's way of life . He argues a lot with one guy who doesn't like the women of the planet swoon over the new boy . . . so they fight by holding a bike rack between them and try to force each other on a tile that can kill . Meanwhile , these dog aliens attack in ships that are on fire and a whole bunch of stuff happens and later we get to see a recap of the entire movie . All in all this is one to avoid , except on MST3k .
Before there was " Top Gun " there was STARFIGHTERS ! ! !	I am guessing , however , that this movie was not the inspiration for Top Gun . What to say about this one , well , for one thing it is hard to describe , but probably nearly impossible to spoil . Why you ask ? Well honestly there is no plot or anything startling revealed in this movie . I am not kidding when I say this either , almost the entire film is sort of a commercial for this jet , you would think the military planned on mass marketing them to the public or something . The only semblance of a plot is that these new recruits are learning to fly the starfighter jet and that is about it . You do not even get the competition of Top Gun . What you do get is more stock footage of jets flying than should be allowed in one movie . Lots of stock footage and lots of light music . I am thinking they got this movie from a department store elevator . Even during scenes that should have a bit tense music you still get the light stuff . As for the tense scenes there are like two . One a problem with hydraulics that went no where , the other a storm that is only implied and never shown that interrupts one flight and the second prolonged fueling scene in the movie . The rest of the film is clunky dialog , the main pilot focused on making his moves on a really stupid gal , strange telephone pranks that are not funny , and an annoying senator calling about his son . Oh yeah , I can not forget the the guys getting in a pool to test out their " poopy suit " . Then you have the most anti-climatic ending ever with more light music . I am thinking the makers of this film figured you did not need a plot . . . showing jet stock footage would be plenty to keep people entertained .
Was there a couple of Friday the 13th's missing ?	May contain spoilers ! ( Not that I am spoiling much ) This had to be the worst Friday the 13th movie to date , and lets face it there weren't that many great ones . The huge problem with this is what the heck happened . The last time we saw Jason he was in Manhattan and he was somehow turned back into a kid , in this movie he is again a walking corpse . I can live with that , but then he gets blown up , they made it look so easy , they should have done that from the start . Now though it gets strange as Jason becomes something from like the movie alien or all those body snatcher movies . At this point I am wondering " didn't I pay to see Jason hack up people directly ? " . Then comes the startling revelation that Jason has a sister ! What ! Get Real ! ! ! There is no way the woman in the first one had a daughter before or after Jason ( or before or after her head was chopped off for that matter ) . If she had a daughter she would have had someone to fall back on and Jason's death wouldn't have pushed her over the edge ( most mothers like their daughters more anyway ) . In the end Jason is killed by another relative , because apparently a relative is the only one who can kill him ( how did they come up with that ) and the movie thankfully ends .
Poorly done message film .	This film tries to show you the importance of parents to a child and how if they are not around bad things can happen , but it fails in so many ways . The main reason it fails is that I could find very little to actually blame the parents on . The movie starts of with this guy accusing his parents and blaming them for the fact he had committed manslaughter then the movie flashes back and shows what led up to that point . Unfortunately , other than a couple of instances right at the beginning of the story for the most parts the parents aren't really responsible . The thing that gets this kid in trouble are the constant lies and the fact he is a bit stupid . I mean a lot of people have neglectful parents , but they don't somehow get involved with organized crime and not even realize it .
Why was this movie made !	Includes spoilersWhy did they make this movie ? Except for the female wrestling scene I can see no reason at all . This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen on MST 2000 and perhaps ever . The plot follows a family driving through the country in some backwoods area . They are apparently going on a vacation , but who vacations in the middle of nowhere . Apparently they are headed to the Valley Lodge which is such a popular place that there is only one sign directing the way . Somewhere they get lost along the way and end up at Torgo's place where he is housesitting for the master . Nothing in the world indicates that this is a hotel , yet the father insists Torgo a man with an obvious disability carry the luggage back and forth . The family's dog gets killed right after they get there and it is to bad , the dog was the best actor in the film . Somehow the parents lose their daughter after this as they have their back turned and she exits the room . They find the daughter outside and she leads them to the dreaded Master , who is apparently lying on rocks outside with his many wives ( what happens when it rains ? ) . After a while Torgo is killed by the master for doing naughty things to his immobile wives and the family runs into the desert where the little girl is getting so bored with this movie she stomps on a plant while the mother is crying and doing her scene . The father promptly gives away their position by shooting at stock footage of a rattlesnake . It ends with two gals heading to the popular Valley lodge and the father is the Master's new housekeeper and the mother and daughter enter the master's Harem ( sick , eh ? ) . Never watch this movie without MST 2000 .
Ator fights evil in all forms including puppets .	Yes this movie is obviously trying to be a Conan the Barbarian , and what amazes me is that this is a sequel ( the people demanded another one ? ) . The first part of the flick is a flashback showing the original . From what I saw it doesn't look worth checking out ( and apparently Ator always kills a huge puppet in his movies ) . Well now Ator lives at the ends of the earth with his mute sidekick Thong . A girl seeks his help as this evil dude has her father in his custody . Let me just say this bad guy is extremely patient as the old guy constantly insults the villian and just prattles on endlessly . The bad guy waits to the very end of the movie and finally smacks the old guy around leaving you to wonder " What took him so long to snap ? " . Meanwhile , Ator and his sidekick and the gal go through one adventure after another . They fight cavemen , invisible soldiers ( don't ask ) , rent a thugs , and people who worship snakes . Ator also battles a giant snake puppet and hang-glides ( again , don't ask ) . All the while you will be thinking that Conan would kick Ator's butt .
Oooooooh ! ! ! ! Prince of Space !	Aliens are invading the earth and boy , they are lame . That is right the super chickens lead by Krangor are attacking and the only one to save the day is Prince of Space , a slim guy who wears the dummest costume in the history of superheros ( you should see his cape ) . Anyway as lame as he is , the villians are worse and constantly loose to Prince of Space . But does Krangor give up ? No , he just laughs annoyingly and continues his seemingly purposeless assault on earth . First , he wants rocket fuel and once he gets it he wants something else . Meanwhile , he keeps shooting one weapon or another at Prince of Space , despite the fact that the Prince constantly tells him that their weapons are useless against him ( and they allows are useless against him too ) . Does Krangor give up ? No , he fights on using his giant to try to fight Prince of Space . Of course , the giant is also ineffective . In the end the Prince has to rescue these scientist who always have to say " oh , Prince of Space " , everytime he appears , and Krangor is defeated . I am guessing they were trying a Flash Gordon type of thing , but this movie made some Godzilla films I have seen seem worthy of an oscar by comparison .
Why would you even make a movie like this ?	How do studios give the ok for movies like this ? I can make a better script on one sheet of paper . Let's cast an annoying kid and so so stars ( David Warner and the guy from Spin City ) and have a stupid story during the times of knights , but there will be no sword play in the movie , but there is gunplay . The only thing that made this movie watchable was the gal who traveled with the annoying kid and Leonardo . She was a very attractive lass , but her acting was as bad as everyone else .
This is a truly awful sequel .	I can't believe people like this movie , but that is okay . They have a right to like what they want . For me though I watched this movie with the realization that this sequel looks a lot worse than the original . The story is basically the same except this time the kid gets sucked into the fantasyland and his father is reading the book . Now something called ' the empty ' is affecting everything . Now , I don't know , but what rule said they had to have another one word nemesis to combat . Well that is not fair this time there is an evil queen too . This does not help the story , nor does the fact that a children's movie sequel should not come six years or so after the first , because you are unable to use any of the original cast . That and the fact after six years most kids who had seen the first have probably forgotten about the movie . All in this entire movie , to me , is just inferior in every way to the original .
The title doesn't really fit .	Sure it takes place in the west , but the title makes it seem like it is a conventional western . Instead , it is a movie of a woman sheriff . Make no mistake though this is a bad movie about a woman sheriff . She becomes sheriff when her husband is gunned down ; she is only a tad bit upset by this . Her main goal is to go after the villain who is also a woman , but the villain hires a guy to kill her . So this is what happens , the hero falls in love with the killer and vice versa . Utterly stupid , as anyone killed in this movie has the new sheriff to thank . She had more than a few chances to put the killer behind bars , but I guess because she liked him she wouldn't do it . The killer is also after the mayor of the town for personal reasons that are also rather dumb . This movie is very boring and not really worth watching . . . it is not one of the better episodes of MST3000 they made . I can not imagine anyone seeing this without them because that would make it that much more painful . Corman is a low budget director , but even he should know better than to have people go into one place and coming out another .
Dang , those kids can run .	This movie is about ineffective aliens trying to take over the earth . In their way is Space Chief ( though he isn't in the movie much at all ) . Really kind of lame as the story focusses on these kids who run from one place to another endlessly . In the end you just don't worry to much that the Neptune men are going to take over the planet .
Why did they call this Godzilla's Revenge in the US ?	I am guessing cause if it was called little boy daydreaming it would not have done anything here . Yes , that is what the movie is about for the most part . He daydreams of Monster Island and you get to see scenes from previous Godzilla entries " Son of Godzilla " and " Godzilla v . the Sea Monster " . I don't think there are scenes from any others , but there may be . There is some new footage though as I think all the battles with the cat monster are new . Not much of a Godzilla flick though as the movie is more about the boy and his feelings . Godzilla isn't even around the last 10 or so minutes as it is just the boy trying to get away from some kidnappers . And the scenes where the boy daydreams about talking to Godzilla's son are quite lame . Really not much here for a Godzilla fan .
Hugo you are a ugly dummy who can't eat ham !	This movie is about a great ventriloquist who has the worst act imaginable , yet for some reason he performs in front of sold out crowds . He basically makes people uncomfortable and people pay to see him do this and to argue with his dummy about luncheon meat and wine . The doll has a secret though and it is up to William Sylvester to find out what and this isn't exactly exciting to watch either . Some how the dummy is alive containing the soul of a former employee of The Great Vorelli ( the ventriloquist ) . There is one murder in this one , but for the most part it is just Vorelli talking down to Hugo ( the dummy ) and putting the moves on Sylvester's girlfriend by hypnotizing her to like him . We also see a lot of Vorelli's assistants butt . What gets me is that Sylvester's character suspects Vorelli of wrongdoing , but when his girlfriend says she wants to marry Vorelli he just accepts it and walks away . All in all a rather drab picture to watch , but the ending is rather funny .
The fact it is actually two episodes of a bad TV show helps you understand .	Understand how two seemingly different plots whose only similarity seems to be a dumb redneck the hero knows are supposedly part of the same movie . This movie is about an agent who can turn invisible . How ? Well we get several flashbacks showing us how , and I am guessing it is flashbacks to the first episode of the Gemini man ( the show this movie came from ) . The movie is two episodes of that program so the first part is about the hero Sam Casey ( Ben Murphy ) driving a truck containing a bottle of some fuel additive . The second has the hero going after some guy who blows stuff up for apparently no reason whatsoever ( he blows up a plane and wants to blow up a race car ) . Dialogue is added at the end of the trucker part of the story to connect the two stories , but they really don't have too much in common . Except for Buffalo Bill a redneck trucker turned racecar driver . They even add dialog in the truck scene to say he will turn into a race car driver as you can tell the " I'm going to Ontario to race " line doesn't sound like the rest of talking going on . Why they felt they could make a movie out of a show that was obviously a flop is anyone's guess . The combining of the two stories is annoying too , as a gal from the first story who obviously wasn't in the race car story keeps getting scenes of her looking into a television monitor and somehow seeing what Sam is up to . All in all a very bad flick made worse by the attempts to connect the two unrelated stories .
You can tell they rushed this script .	As bad as the first " Look Who's Talking " was , at least it didn't sink as low as this one goes . This movie was written up very fast after the surprise success of the first movie , and it shows . Most of the jokes involve toilets and such other stupid jokes it makes most of the movies they consider crude today look like Oscar candidates . Another thing that does not help this one is the fact that the sister has the voice of Roseanne in it . Could they have possibly found a more annoying voice , I highly doubt it unless they got Rosie O'Donnell . What is up with Mikey in this one ? Why is he still being voiced by Willis , he should be able to speak by this point and considering how well their thought processes are he should be a genius . That is another problem with this series , I highly doubt kids think in the terms this movie presents . I highly doubt a baby in a womb knows what a placenta is . All in all don't waste your time unless you are one of those people that likes babies to a ridiculous extent .
What class were they taking ?	This is a movie about a Bigfoot like creature in the swamps of Arkansas . Apparently a professor takes two of his students and one of the students friends into the swamp to find this creature . This poses the question " what kind of class are they taking anyway ? " Is it a class on the creature or what ? Whatever it is it is probably an elective . During their trip they meet all sorts of unappealing characters and Tim one of the students seems to be unable to wear a shirt . Perhaps he has a skin condition , because the stick can't be proud of his appearance . They also go from one flashback to the other . Some of the flashbacks paints the creature as relatively harmless , others as a creature that will kill . Still others paint it as a creature that interrupts people while they are using the bathroom in a scene you'd have to see to believe . In the end they find the creature , but by golly the creature is less horrifying than Old Man Crenshaw . A more disgusting guy you will probably never see . Heck , after seeing him the appearance of the monster is anti-climatic . Though you do see the monster for a sec in the middle of the film . The professor has radar and it appears and the professor says " Oh , no " . This makes no sense because the whole reason they went to the swamp was to find the creature and it comes right to them and the professor seems upset . Another scene that drags to long is the girls ordeal in the swamp when they get the jeep stuck . The constant whining of the one girl is annoying , but I can understand how she feels giving she is just the friend and isn't taking the class on the Boggy Creek creature .
Zap Rowsdower and Troy fight evil guys in ski masks .	That is about the extent of the plot . This nerdy kid finds a map that belonged to his dad who was killed . Evil cult members in ski masks and tank tops come after Troy ( the nerdy kid ) , because they want the map ( which is to a supposedly lost city , but really a map to a great big pop-up book ) . They are led by a guy in a coat who doesn't have to wear a ski mask . Troy runs from the cult members and gets into the back of a truck belonging to Zap Rowsdower the hero of the flick ( the most original name I have ever seen in a movie ) . The hero has a few health flaws and seems to have the hardest time running from one action scene to another because he is always out of breath . You get to see Troy and Zap uncover the ancient map room complete with leaking plumbing . You get to see zap and the bad guy fight with torches and grappling hooks ( I always find grappling hooks just lying around ) . You get to see really bad car chases , bicycle chases , and 10k runs up a mountain . And you'll meet Yosemita Sam's older brother as well . If this sounds like your movie , feel free to check it out , but be warned it isn't as good as I made it out .
Do you find this movie ironical ?	Yes , the word ironical is used , and though the MSTK3000 gang questioned it . . . it is in fact a word . Aside from that though this movie is a complete wreck . An old woman wants to be young again , so she has a mad scientist in her basement that can transplant brains . She gets three women to come to her evil mansion on the pretense that they are to be servants . Two of the woman get the ok to be the old ladies new body , but the third has a birthmark and is sent to live in the basement where the good doctor proceeds to transplant her brain with a cat's so we get to watch a gal act like a cat . The good doctor also has awakened a dead lady , and she kind of just walks around in a stupor cause she is basically brain dead . . . so she is sort of a zombie . Then we have the poor guy who is working with the old lady , he is sort of her gigolo , though it is obvious once she gets her new body he is history . There is also a guy who has the brain of a dog as well . At one point in the movie one of the ladies whose body is ok meets the lady who has the brain of the cat . The cat lady takes a swipe at the attractive one and you won't believe the damage she does . And just why can the doctor revive dead people and switch brains , but he can't fix a lousy eye ? The ending isn't too good either , as the old woman deserved a worse fate . All in this entire movie one stinks .
BORING ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !	This Hamlet made for one of the boringest MST3000 episodes ever . I am not a Shakespear fan , but I do not believe he ever intended his works to be this slow paced and drab . It is also one of the hardest movies to find because there are so many Hamlets listed . Like I said though this one is quite boring . It is in black and white , the pacing is slow , and there is minimal scenery . The actors are all dubbed too so that doesn't help . This is the one MST 3000 I can't watch in one sitting cause the way the guy playing Hamlet says his lines can put anyone to sleep .
Like Return of the Living Dead . . . IF IT SUCKED ! ! !	This was without a doubt one of the worst movies I have ever seen . What gets me is that is ranks a 4 . 2 here at IMDb , the place that is extremely hard on horror movies . How is it ranked so high ? I love horror movies , but never before have I considered stopping a movie in the middle of it as I have with this one . However , I persevered and was rewarded with more crap . The acting is horrible , I have never before wanted people dead in my life and I am not talking about the characters . . . I am speaking of the actual actors . Even the zombies were horrible in this one . The only reason this one must be ranked high is the gore , which is good , but even with that I could not rank this movie any higher . The plot , losers go to bar , other more popular losers go to house in the middle of nowhere , zombies go on the attack , general running here and there and then wham movie ends in the most stupid fashion ever . During which time we have the lead guy trying to save his girlfriend , and this lead guy is the most annoying dip in the film and his scream is very annoying as well . I so wanted him to die , but he just kept going . We have a scene where the streets were empty and our three " heros " are just looking , the next thing you know there are zombies all around them to the point they can not make it to their car two feet to the left . You have a girl that gets into a convertible and seems to relax like she is safe . You also have worse production values and worse acting than found in most porn films , and you do not even get to see a boob or two in this film . All you really get to see is a bunch of people covered in blood screaming with a few good gore effects here and there . I knew this movie was going to be trouble when we were introduced to the actors while incredibly bad music played . By the way what was up with the super zombies anyway , they can rip a jaw off a girl , but can't get into a bar block off with a chair ? To much bad stuff , just to much . . . must seek out filmmakers , make it so sequel can not be made .
Thank goodness for Johnny Longbow !	This movie is the typical man turns into monster when the full moon appears . The only catch is the monster is lizard and you turn into it if a fragment of meteor hits you . What are the odds of that happening anyway ? But apparently this happened once before because there is a legend about it the indians have passed down . Okay , so it happened twice , sure it is not realistically possible , but I could live with it , but the movie was bad in more ways than that . I mean the guy meets this girl in the movie and they have maybe two dates and she is already so in love with him she stands by him till the end . In fact she is a little clingy if you ask me . She is already busting into his house and offering to make breakfast after the first date . I am supprised she didn't book up after he showed her his pet lizard and he told her he lived with his mother . The monster side of him only appears three times in the movie . It kills a bunch of old guys here and there before the final confrontation . And the way this guy whines you can't really root for him anyway to be cured .
Eagah wants a woman	The basic story of this bomb is a caveman played by Richard Kiel is discovered . After being captured by the caveman a father and daughter try and distract eagah from wanting to get it on with the daughter . They escape and eagah later comes after them again . That is the basic plot nice and simple . The hero is this dweeb that looks like a cabage patch kid and the girl apparently prefers him to the caveman who knows why . There are stupid scenes where the daughter shaves her dad then shaves eagah and he of course is turned on by this . The hero somehow beats eagah and they ride around in his dunebuggy . Best to avoid this movie at all costs .
Booooorrrrrrrriiiiiinnnnngggggg ! ! ! ! ! ! !	That is the best way I can describe this movie which centers on a newly married couple who move into a house that is haunted by the husband's first wife who died under mysterious circumstances . That sounds well and good , but what plays out is an hour of pure boredom . In fact one of the funny things about this flick is that there is a warning at the beginning of the film that promises anyone who dies of fright a free coffin . Well trust me , no one ever took them up on that offer unless someone out there is terrified of plastic skulls , peacocks , weird gardeners , and doors being knocked on . And the music is the worst , it consists of constant tuba music which sounds like it is being played by some sixth grader . And you will figure out the terrible secret that is so obvious that you really have to wonder what the people in this movie were thinking . Someone dies while running and hitting their head and the police are never called to investigate . Yes in the end this is a slow paced ( which is really bad considering the movie is only just over an hour ) , boring little tale , that is easily figured out by the average person . Apparently none of the characters in this flick were the average person .
Very bad movie with one of the most awful endings I have ever seen .	What to say about this movie . Well one of the guys who did this movie would go one to make the bad movie " Giant Spider Invasion " and between the two this one is a lot worse . Which is very bad for you , the viewer unfortunate enough to watch this steaming pile of crap . The movie is about an astronaut back on earth , transformed into a killing machine . Well not exactly a killing machine , but it does kill . Kind of like " The Incredible Melting Man " or even " The Crawling Hand " two more bad movies that were at least better than this movie . I don't know about you , but I don't really care for most of the dialog in my movie being done by a narrator . That is the case in this movie as it was in the film " The Creeping Terror " , heck even that movie was better than this . I mean very little talking and when they do talk a lot of times you can't hear the person clearly ( which is why the narrator I am guessing ) . To many plot holes , to much dead time for a movie of this length , not enough monster , and the most horrible ending I have ever seen recorded on film . It literally looks like the film makers had no clue as to how to end their film and someone came up with the bright idea of a ending they thought was clever , but in the end it shoots down everything the rest of the movie was setting up . It shoots down the whole cured for a bit of time scenario that is for sure . In the end the voice over might as well have said disregard everything you have seen because it just sucked .
By golly it is hideous .	This movie sucked . The only redeeming quality is the fact that it is extremely short . Though still not short enough . It actually started promisingly with an opening scene of sewage workers sifting through sludge finding something weird , but after that five minutes it is the typical full moon movie , little creatures , dumb human characters and an emphasis on comedy rather than horror . The dumb story revolves around this two guys who collect medical oddities , the latest one comes to life and brings other things to life , we are never told how or why , and frankly we don't care anyway . My advice skip this at all cost !
Awful revenge flick .	This movie starts out focused on a scientist who works with older women even though they give him and his nurse the creeps . The scientist or doctor has sort of a fight with his wife about getting a divorce and then he works on the oldest looking woman you have ever seen . She says there is a secret that can make her young , but she needs money to get to Africa . Well the doc agrees , but he only has enough money to take her to some really cheap sets , but there is plenty of stock footage of animals to be seen . His wife is a bit haggard too , so she accompanies him to Africa where he proceeds to ignore her and she flees into the jungle where she is attacked by a stock footage beast of the jungle . They finally run into the old woman who proceeds to show them the secret to growing young again . The rest of the flick has an escape from the old woman's tribe and then it is on to New York where the wife who has taken the youth potion proceeds to try and win this guy away from his fiancé because there apparently isn't enough other guys in New York to try first . Really , really bad .
If you have an extremely limited budget do not . . .	SPOILERS SPOILERS make a time traveling movie . This is an extremely bad movie to say the least , the one good point it has is that it is set in Vermount and how often do you get to see the state of Vermount in a movie . The scenery is great , to bad they wasted all those nice days making this movie . Spoilers Now for the movie itself . It is about a dorky guy who apparently makes a time machine ( he calls it a time transport ) and shows it first to this guy and a reporter . They go to the future which looks so cheesy . For one they show a future city on a computer screen in the plane , but not once do you see it in person . When they have landed everything looks the same as now . Except children have cell phones and people where leather jackets and what is futuristic about that . They go back to their time and the guy who was given the demo brings is boss back and the boss is of course head of an evil corporation . The hero of the tale signs with him and this is a mistake . After awhile he meets the reporter in a grocery store and he proceeds to take her to the past for lunch . Again the only resemblance to the past is that there are old time cars that are just restored cars . I mean how many cars back then came in such colors . Also one waitress in a supposedly old time café ( which doesn't look old time ) is dressed 50's style . And why doesn't anyone notice that the time travelers should be out of place ? They proceed to go to the future again , but this time the picture on the computer screen has broken down buildings . Apparently , time has changed so the hero and the gal explore . They are attacked by filthy people and get to see the chaos , which just looks like an alley in any town in the US . And just how did time-traveling cause this ? Who knows . Of course the evil corporate guy is responsible so the hero goes to the corporate guys office . Now I don't know how corporations are , but shouldn't the president of the company have a private office . Well this guy doesn't . He is just in the hall or something . Well the two have to get away and do so and fly back in time to stop the hero from showing his invention in the past . The evil guy follows them back and shoots them down . The girl is blown up in the plane and the guy falls in a river and apparently finds a gun on the bottom of the river as he pulls it on two fisherman . In the end they go to 1777 ( of all the dates in the world the evil guy selects this ) and they have their final battle while fat guys dressed as soldiers run around and don't seem to mind the people who should be out of place . The past hero and gal get away and the other one gets shot and a plane falls on the evil guy . And if this doesn't make sense watch the movie and you will see for yourself how much this movie sucked .
A bit of a mess .	This movie is one big motorcycle accident . The plot is awful the cast is awful , everything in this one is awful . A guy's brother is killed so he and his brother's fiance infiltrate a biker gang to look for the his killers . There aren't as many biker chicks as the tagline and title suggest and we mainly see a bunch of people act drunk and once in a while we can understand what they are saying . It is an even worse movie than " Sidehackers " another Ross Hagen movie .
What was the attraction of this movie ?	Everyone I know who watched this movie liked it , but I thought it was quite bad . Yet this one scores higher than " Mind Ripper " here . Just shows I have differing tastes I guest . This one is more original than that movie , but this one also is not the least bit scary . The jokes to me are not very funny either , so it is no wonder that I don't like this . It is about a bunch of guys and a kid robbing the house of these slum lords . Well what they find is that the house is well protected and that the two that live and preside over the house are a tad crazy . The kid gets away by hiding in the walls , then he is caught and put under the stairs with the title characters who do not play as big a role in the film as the title implies . Along the way we see various things die such as a kid and a dog , but nothing that would approach a true horror film . There are also many twists and turns here and there , but nothing to shocking ( well maybe the one revelation is ) . What you end up with is a movie with no real direction and no real thrills or chills .
The ring of terror . . . not what you might think .	No , this movie is not a ghost story that predates Japanese horror movies and is in fact their influence . Also , no to this movie being about organized crime or a street gang terrorizing the streets of Chicago . It is neither of those , in fact there is very little to this movie at all . The story has a caretaker of a cemetery walking through a graveyard looking for something that turns out to be his cat Puma . Yes , this is a rather long little sequence no doubt stretched out for so long because the movie is in need of a little padding . The caretaker stumbles on a grave of a man and the story shifts to this man and his days at college . Yes you are now into the meat of the story , a group of college kids ( well more like college old guys ) in medical school trying to join a fraternity and see the autopsy of an actual deceased individual . The main character focused on is a man who seems all right for the most part , except for the fact he is seemingly without fear . Yes , he is not afraid of random rattle snakes that somehow get into a car or whatever . Well the story finds our intrepid students at places called cafeteria where the band plays without any emotion and sometimes without the instrument in their mouths and they laugh at fat people dancing all the night long . They also view a rather gruesome autopsy where you see nothing , but the guy performing the autopsy , his skeleton , the clock , and the students . So I guess you see everything , but the body . Then you see hazing at its most unfair as some students must walk down a street asking for pennies while others must steal rings off of corpses . Yeah , that seemed really unfair to me . Then you get to see the caretaker wrap up this rather pointless , albeit , short movie . Upon watching this flick you will wonder , why the heck were those girls upset at the guys ? They had to see the autopsy , I mean geez what do they expect the guys are trying to be doctors .
The title and tag line are a bit full of it .	Yes , there are really no prehistoric women to speak of , a few prehistoric guys that don't really figure into the plot much at all , and to top it off the opening scenes are very confusing as it took me a bit to figure out there were two ships . This movie was also very boring and even mst3000 couldn't help it as it made for one of the more boring episodes of that show I had ever seen . The only reason I gave it a two is that there was at least a very attractive female character to look at among the dismal sets and stupid prehistoric monsters . Which consisted of a lizard and a normal sized snake . . . oh the horrors . But I should at least give a bit of the plot of this dull film . Space cruiser one has this crew on it and then it shifts to ship two which was the confusing point to me . However , I soon figure out one of the ships is being taken over by these people and they cause it to crash on a the prehistoric planet that does not contain all that many women and the second ship comes to the rescue . That is about all there is to it , granted there is a revelation at the end which is moronic at best , however I won't ruin it for anyone who may be brave enough to sit through this mess . . . even the beautiful Linda character is not enough reason to watch it for most people .
Dr . Leopold is a brillant scientist .	Yes from the very beginning of these stinker you will do nothing but laugh . I watched it on MST 3000 , but it would even be funny with out them . The film starts off showing stock footage of various fish with a devious and cunning sounding man telling all about the fish being pictured . It then flashes to a guy who , well , suffice to say looks pathetic . The voice doing the explaining is supposed to be his , but it does not fit the wimpy looking dude . Then you hear some song playing as the great Dr . walks through the credits . This song like the movie is really bad , but funny . This doctor procedes to inject himself with a formula that turns him into a monster so he must be a brillant man , so why can't he buy the right sized clothes for himself or underwear . After awhile you meet the heros of the story who aren't very heroic . They are basically water checkers or something . During the middle of the movie the monster tries to get a date while the water checkers check the water . They end up meeting up with the monster who procedes to take the female water checker . What ensues is the most hilarious scene ever to be seen in the movies . The lead guy says to the others to go to the monsters house , he is going to track the beast . The music of the movie starts this tracking music that sounds so serious , then the guy gets a gun and procedes to get in some kids toy car and promptly drives it into the river . Now maybe this toy is supposed to be a boat , but the guy would have been better off swimming after the monster . The toy stops and the guy goes through the swamp being bitten by snakes and tripping all over the place . Meanwhile , the monster goes to the house they all know he was going to anyway , so why didn't the guy just go with his friends and set up an ambush ? Why did he put himself through such torture , I guess he really wanted to race his bigwheel in the water . I won't give away the ending , suffice to say it will make you go what ?
Don't watch the television cut of this movie .	When watching a horror movie on a station other than HBO or one of those stations it is expected to have some scenes removed because they are a bit graphic or may contain nudity . This movie went overboard though and a couple of times I didn't know what happened or how a person was killed the cuts were so bad . This movie has this gal setting up a party in a house that is apparently haunted . She sets up a whole lot of elaborate pranks that play during the party even setting up a guillotine which she never actually does . Then somebody in an old divers outfit starts killing everyone in sight with jump cuts . Or they are so fast that you just don't see what the heck happened . In one scene these two guys are apparently killed at the same time , but I didn't see what happened . One minute they were sitting there talking the next they were slouched over dead . I may have to review this again if I ever see the uncut version , but all I can say about this one is don't watch it .
Apparently sharks do take things personally .	In Jaws 2 a person told sheriff Brody that sharks don't take things personally . . . in this one they apparently not only do , but they also will hunt you down to the ends of the earth . This focuses on the most mediocre character of the first two Jaws , Ellen Brody . It starts with one of her sons being out on a boat and being killed by a shark . Why he is out on the water is anyone's guess seeing as he was afraid of water in 3 , which I do believe this one completely ignores . This attack is probably the only real good scene in the flick cause we are off to the Caribbean where Ellen goes to visit with her other son who just doesn't seem all to upset by his brother's death . What is waiting for her here , but the exact same shark that killed her other son . Michael Caine is in this and this somehow makes me wonder why couldn't they have just forgotten about the Brody's and maybe have it be about Caine in Australia or something as a shark hunter . . . why do we have to have the same family , you have a better chance of being struck by lightening than you do of being attacked by a shark yet this family is constantly being attacked by sharks . Maybe they all bath in fish blood before swimming ? Anyway this film is quite bad and was a pretty bad way to end the franchise .
Why you don't get mixed up with women named Vi .	This movie is another could have been tolerable flick with a few less talking scenes and more spook action that did not come off as a bit lame . Or perhaps an even shorter running time could have helped too . There were quite a few shots of the beach that did remind me too of one of those album commercials . The story , a man apparently has moved to an island to get away from some things in his life , unfortunately one of those things finds him in the form of an ex lover who still has a thing for him . Well they argue for a bit on a lighthouse and then her fat butt breaks the lighthouse railing and before Tom can make up his mind to save her , she plunges to her death . Fine by me , she seemed to be a controlling harpy and quite frankly isn't saving someone merely an option . So suffice to say she haunts poor Tom for the rest of the movie , making him question his own sanity at times . Though she is clearly there and not merely a byproduct of his imagination cause she sure caused a stir at the wedding . Well for most of the picture I felt rather sorry for Tom , until the end where he screws up big time and becomes a dumb jerk for what he was thinking about doing . So that is about the sum of the plot , throw in a blind woman with another tale of haunting and a crazy boats man who will go to the ends of the earth for five bucks and you have your movie .
Typical 50's teen horror .	This one doesn't appeal to me much . For the most part I think the movie takes itself too seriously , considering it is called I was a teenage werewolf . You just expect the movie to be more fun , less drabby . Landon does a rather good job , but his character is thoroughly unlikable . So is much of the cast . The plot revolves around Landon as a troubled teen who gets into a lot of fights at school . He goes to a doctor to treat him and for some reason this guy can turn you into a wolf for some reason . Why does he do it ? Who knows , he says it is for science . . . I just think he has too much time on his hands . We get to put up with a lame teen party in this one where some guy sings badly , and then another party after Tony's ( Landon's character ) treatment where he kills this guy who walks through the deep woods for a shortcut . Then the police are involved and so is a janitor who is rather pointless in the movie . Wolf kills gal in gym , and now the police know they are after a werewolf . They go into the woods to track him , but you know the doctor is going to be in the finale .
The horrifying movie that . . . ( spoilers included )	really has very little horror . I can't belive another title for this was night of the demon , because there is no demons in sight . Instead we get the great Jody driving through the opening credits , then he stops for gas , then he pulls into a driveway where he sits down for lunch ( oh god the horror ) . And as fast as it starts out it even gets better as he meets Melissa Strickland and they start the first of their many clunky diolog scenes together . She introduces him to her " wink " parents and perceives to invite him to stay despite her " parents " wishes . I can not believe he stayed in the first place considering the look on the face of the parents . I would have gotten the clue that I was not really welcome . She then gets the nob to stay awhile . Well he goes to the room set aside for him and meets Melissa's sister ( she didn't age as well as Melissa ) . In the end you find out there is a fish in a lake , the guy says Zah to scare people , the guy refuses to believe she is a witch till the very end ( and frankly I still don't think he really believes ) , and both end up in the clutches of satan .
Lifetime presents " Deep Impact "	This movie plays exactly like a lifetime channel movie . Where as Armageddon released in the same year is more for guys this one was for the ladies . And boy do ladies like boring movies where there is a lot of failure and tragedy . The movie even seems to be kind of gray and depressing for the most part and did I mention boring . Two comets are heading for earth so everyone seemingly prepares to die . There is a ship sent up to stop it , but their heart doesn't really seem in it , and I do believe it would be impossible to catch up with and match speeds with a comet anyway suffice to say they do get on , but mess up . They hold a lottery to see who can live in an underground shelter and a woman who has nothing , but her career has to go hang out with dad and just waits it out so she can die . The special effects finale is ok , but nothing great , on the plus side Morgan Freeman and Robert Duvall are in this one . Still their appearance doesn't make this one any less dull .
When you want the lead character dead and he is the hero it is a bad sign .	This movie had an interesting enough plot about clones and organ usage , but it fails as the lead actor is so annoying and whiny you want him dead . Not that anyone else is very good in it either , but when you hate the character that is supposed to be garnering your sympathy the movie just fails to work . Funny enough , it looks like a movie is coming out in the near future that has a plot that mirrors this one with more action and a better cast , still though I won't be able to think of anything else , but this film if I were to watch it . This movie has a super dumb clone that is somehow smart enough to figure something is wrong with his camp where people bicycle at one mile per hour and wrestle for no reason . The counselors tell them that when they are ready they go to America , but our " hero " has his doubts so he snoops around and learns the awful truth which sends him on the run from the bad guys who shoot and hit the guy repeatedly . He goes on the look out for the man he was cloned from . Peter Graves is in it and so is Dick Seargent , but they add nothing to this movie which looks like something that was made for television . On the plus side though when " The Island " comes out the makers of this film can proudly say " we thought of it first " .
Better than the first movie , but not all that good as they seem to forget there is supposed to be sex in an adult film .	Yes , this movie is a slight improvement on the original as there are a couple of cute girls here and there . However , you will not be seeing very well done sex scenes in this porno , instead the movie is more of a comedy and the sex scenes for the most part are very underdeveloped . The movie is still better though than one as one had a unpleasant feel to it and just made me feel yucky . This one does not do that . . . granted it also does not excite or turn me on either which is what an adult film should be doing now is it not ? There is one scene involving a cute gal who apparently sales household products and has very pretty eyes . I think there is about to be a great sex scene and instead I get maybe a two minute scene max . I do not really like the porno movies that are just sex scene after sex scene with no real development or lead up , but I prefer them to this type of film that is mainly all lead up and no real payoff . I understand you want to have plot too , but I have seen plots in porn where there is still really good sex like in the Little Girls Blue and to a lesser extent Debbie Does Dallas . These Devil in Miss Jones movies just do not appeal to me or to the bad boy I was who found their dad's dirty movie collection .
Full Moon makes another stupid movie .	With a name like full moon entertainment , you think they would make really good horror movies . Instead we get another comedy / horror hybrid that is not scary and is not funny . We already have a company that does this called Troma we do not need two . With a low budget you can still make effective horror movies like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " or the original " Halloween " . Full Moon though would rather make a movie featuring characters from different movies coming together . Movies that were not very good to begin with . This one shows you scenes from " Dollman " and " Slimebowlarama " to set up its tale . Seems " Dollman " found a gal his size and so he heads to this town that has these stupid killer toys . . . think " The Puppet Master " , but with stupid looking toys . What you get is a very bad movie that isn't funny or scary which is exactly what one would expect when combining characters from other movies that are also not funny or scary . My advice would be to skip seeing this one unless you see it on the Sci-Fi channel so you can see just how stupid it is . What is really strange is Tim Thomerson being in this . . . he seems to be an okay actor , why does he take roles like this ?
You have heard from the trek fans now . . .	Here from some one who doesn't really care for the Trek sensation . This movie is a complete waste of two hours . . . it starts promisingly enough with a mysterious cloud heading toward earth . Klingons are attacking it , but it wipes them out . The rest of the flick is a big snooze . Prolonged scenes of people looking at ships , clouds , man it was quite non-entertaining . And the ending was lame as was the identity of vger . I will never understand the facsination some people have with sci-fi . . . I mean I like a good sci-fi flick , but star trek for me has always been kinda boring ( not pt 2 . which is the best star trek movie ) .
Hand slaps on someone's back person screams " hey it is just me " " man don't do that " .	Never has the hand falling on someone's back and then a music cue and it turning out to be a friendly person been used as often as it had been in this movie . This one made 4 and 5 seem good . I just did not like it . Nothing happens in this movie till the last half hour or so . At least they spread the killings apart in 4 and 5 ; here they are mostly confined at the end . This one and part 8 are the second pair of sequels to Halloween . Nothing in 4 , 5 , or 6 is found here . On the plus side that means no little girl , but what is does mean is a very boring movie this time around . This movie is called Halloween , but this one has absolutely no Halloween vibe to it . It might as well be Christmas . The " scares " all consist on hands on back for most of the movie , and bringing back Jamie Lee does not help at all . Of course this movie is in the long line of Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer mold . Purely a horror movie mainly made not for teens and adults , but made for female teens . No gore , no inventive kills , this movie just wasn't good . I wasn't wild about 4 or 5 either , but they weren't boring and this one was .
Slow start and not a fast finisher .	This movie starts by showing you a map and then explaining radar and it is quite awhile before you ever see the deadly mantis . Probably a better movie in the 50's this dated piece is a bit to slow moving and the pay off in the end isn't very good . Though it has its moments like when the guy from Perry Mason argues with an old man and when he says " I have narrowed the possibilities to one " excuse me , but when you narrow something down you have a couple or more possibilities not one . . . if you get it down to one you haven't narrowed it down , but you have in fact figured out what it is . The monster is standard 50's sci-fi fair , better than say the grasshoppers in the Beginning of the End . Acting is sub-par and the heroine is the most unattractive . . . in fact in some shots she does look like a guy in drag . You see plenty of fighter plane stock footage and other things , but you won't see much at all of the deadly mantis .
Beginning of a boring movie .	This movie starts slow , goes at a slow pace , and finally ends slow . This movie is about giant locast that are overrunning Chicago . As interesting as this sounds , it isn't . Most of the film is watching grasshoppers that are super imposed on the background just run around . I don't mind using this technique , and I understand why they do back in the 50's , but couldn't they build something . A pincher , anything . Never is a person near one of these killer grasshoppers , at least build part of one and show someone being scooped up . And they are not very consistent on how easy this things are killed . In some scenes the grasshoppers die from regular machine gun fire , the next they can withstand tanks . The only saving grace to the film is actor Peter Graves .
Long title . . . bad movie .	This movie was just bad . I only saw it once though so I don't remember a lot of it . . . I just remember it being quite boring . I think I saw this one on TNT's old Monster vision show and Joe Bob didn't give it very high marks either . Very bad special effects and a bad plot as well . Though it does have Richard Moll in it . What really gets me is the second half of the title of this one . Let's just say it is ironic that it is called the destruction of Jared-Syn . The finale is really bad and I wasn't even sure what happened as they were flying through the cheap special effects .
I just didn't care for this	I can see this movie wasn't that badly reviewed and people have made some good arguements for it , but I just did not enjoy it . The costume was nothing like the comic book and though Dolph looked like the punisher he did not act like him . He was to dreary and slow talking the real Punisher is not this silent and brooding . But overlooking that , this Punisher is always seemingly unprepared . He runs out of ammo quite often or he is stuck using a 12-gauge when he needs a machine gun . The villians aren't to great either , but this is Marvel's fault because they sell the rights to their characters to whoever . The Kingpin or Jigzaw should have been the villians instead we get nondescript mobsters and the Japanese mafia . If Marvel would just sell the rights to all their characters to a major studio they would be much better off and their movies would not be so cheaply made . Look what New Line did with Blade and Fox did with X-man , if you sell the rights to your characters to good studios you get a better movie .
At least John Carradine is in it .	Because if not for him , there would be very little in this movie worth looking at . Carradine plays a doctor working on people brought to him by another doctor . They think they are there to help them get over mild psychological problems , but instead they are there to be guinea pigs for the good doctor . Could have been good , but it is a little too talky for a B sci-fi movie from the 50s . There are only a couple of locations in this movie too , and there really isn't much to look at . Carridine does all right I guess , but the rest of the cast doesn't really seem interested in being there . Except for the one guy who overacts throughout the movie . Tor Johnson is in this one too , as of course , the doctor's henchmen and helper . The doctor's experiments seem to revolve around making people immortal , but he fails so often that you would think he would give up . Not our good doctor though , no way does he give up . He just works on the next one . Actually , in this movie you only see him operate on one gal , but you do get to see a lot of the doctor's previous works .
This one is bad .	The first " Swamp Thing " was okay , but took itself too seriously . This one goes in the opposite direction and ends up being almost a parody and it is not even an okay movie . In fact , it is horrible . Well that is not fair the first few minutes were at least tolerable as Swamp Thing battles this other creature , but after that the movie is just about unwatchable . Louis Jordan is the only one back from the first one I think ( not sure if it is the same guy playing Swamp Thing ) and Heather Lockler plays the love interest and the lame jokes come fast and furious . Most of the time they are not very good , in fact , I do not remember laughing at any of them . I also remember this movie dragging quite a bit . You will check your watch and wonder when it is going to be over . After it all you get your lame ending and then you can let out a breath and be thankful that it is finally over .
Bloody boring . . .	My friend rented this movie and I decided to check it out considering it made 300 million at the box office it couldn't be to bad . I was wrong . This movie is just plain boring , with terrible performances all around . The kids though were the worst part of it . They just make you want to scream . Not that the grown up ones are all that great . And everyone has a British accent , couldn't one person at least have an Austrian accent or something . All in all this film was definately bad .
CAROL ANNE ! ! ! !	This is the worst of the trio of Poltergeist movies by far . In fact it is almost a joke it is so bad . By now everyone from the original movie is either dead or they have opted out of their contracts and decided against playing in this third installment . All except the one little woman and Heather O'Rourke . Though she would have probably been better off not returning as well because she died of complications from the flu or something during the shoot . If she could have just been able to rest she might have been able to pull through , but I am guessing the movie shoot was just a bit to demanding . As it is she had to appear in one of the most utterly ridiculous and annoying horror movies ever . To her credit though she is the least annoying character in the movie as she is one of the few who doesn't yell out " CAROL ANNE " one hundred times . This movie has Carol Anne shipped to her aunt and uncle , apparently after all they had been through and done for the girl they Carol Anne's parents ( played by Craig T . Nelson and Joe Beth Williams ) just could not put up with her anymore . This contradicts the message of part 2 of the family using their love to fight off the evil . Well not all goes well for Carol Anne in her new settings as the evil old guy from part 2 is back to try and get her ( played by a different person this time because the other guy died , and looking quite stupid I might add ) . They live in a skyscraper so it is kind of like " Gremlins 2 " except not as entertaining . This one is slow moving and rather boring as there just are not the cool special effects from the previous two installments . Instead of ghosts we get killer cars and people who are different in mirrors that kill people by pushing them down . And after this one finally drags itself to the finish you will be left wondering what happened to the poor guy who is seemingly left on the other side .
A really lame attempt at comedy horror .	This movie is just what the plot outline says . A family gets a new satellite system and it picks up a transmission from another planet . Unfortunately for them this transmission is in fact a really stupid looking monster . That is the first part of the film . Next , is the monster knocking off the family members one by one except for the brother and sister , then the monster turns friendly for a bit and finally it goes on a final rampage . This movie is really quite bad and lame . Most of the comedy falls on its face and there really is no horror to speak of . It is almost a pure comedy and when the jokes don't work , neither does the movie . Though one joke made me almost die laughing and in retrospect it was not all that funny . The scene where the boy and his grandfather are watching television and the monster appears on the screen and the grandfather is yelling at the screen telling it to do something . I don't know why I laughed so hard at that , but that was about it . The ending was also quite bad , though the movie did have a rather catchy song to it .
The monsters main weapon ? The rainbow .	Yes the monster Barugon's super killing attack is called the rainbow and when it shoots out of the monster's back it looks like a skittles commercial . And this movie may be called Gamera v . Barugon , but it is definitely more Barugon less Gamera and very very very little versus . The two fight for maybe two or three minutes near the end of this flick . Most of Gamera's appearances occur it seems in a segment that shows clip from his previous film . Other than that the turtle is hardly scene . The movie revolves around this guys going to some jungle to go to a cave to retrieve an opal . The opal is an egg and this egg of course hatches and Barugon is released . This monster really shouldn't have been too much trouble to stop seeing how water is its weakness , but somehow the army and everyone seem to have trouble anyway . Gamera has a scene where he flies into the rainbow and promptly gets frozen as Barugon as a hose for a tongue and uses it to freeze everything . Then there are the pointless scenes about the diamond and luring Barugon into a lake that of course fail every way they do it . This movie is quite tedious .
Joe Don after final justice .	Joe Don Baker is an alright to good actor in small roles here and there . . . he was alright in Goldeneye and made a pretty good Bond villan in The Living Daylights and has appeared in various other movies . One thing he can't do is carry a movie as the lead , which he is in this extremely bad revenge movie set in Malta . Joe Don's partner is killed so he kills the killer's brother and escorts the killer to Italy , but some guys cause the plane to set down in Malta and the killer gets away . The rest of the movie is seeing Joe Don chase the killer here and there , Joe Don getting taken into custody various times , Joe Don torturing a bartendar and being interrupted and so on . The movie is quite bad and you won't find yourself exactly pulling for Joe Don's character . You will be amazed at how many times Joe Don the hero gets taken out by one punch and how incompetent he proves to be . The crowning part of the movie comes when Joe Don chases the killer all over Malta with the killer in a priest robe and then they get in boats and he chases them all around Malta . This movie also features one of the worst closing lines to end a movie ever .
I got the point of the movie . . . but it still sucked to me .	Notice I said it sucked to me . I am not going to bash people for liking this movie , but don't bash me for hating it . This movie is a thinly disguised anti-war movie that mocks patriotism and such . This movie is set in the future and the society has become more of a Nazi type government . Forget trying to analyze it , the science is quite bad so forget it . You will just hurt your head , thinking how it is impossible to fly the distances portrayed in this movie . In this movie they want you to join the military , and apparently you have to be a supermodel to join . Come on people , there aren't this many good-looking people at a college , most people are average looking , but you have to suspend your disbelief . The reason I hate this movie is that I can't stand the characters , they are all annoying and you almost crave for them to die , but then whom do you pull for ? The bugs ? They have no personality . So here and there lies the problem , the director purposely made this movie this way , you are supposed to hate the characters , I think I read where this was supposed to be what if the lead couple in the movie Grease became Nazis and fought a war in space . So right of the bat this is going to turn off a lot of people whether they get it or not . Many who enjoyed the movie didn't get it , but just like the violence and action , but I wasn't even overly impressed with the action . The movie is supposed to be satire , but it wasn't funny enough or witty enough for me . It played like a satire that took itself to seriously for its own good . Don't however ; dismiss the movie based on my review . Many like it so give it a look see and write a review here . Many people like its antiwar messages and think it is a great play on things , others just like the action so as bad as I thought it was you may find something to like about it . I just hope I never live in a future where guys and gals can shower together and act like it is no big deal .
Not intended for use in the United States .	I have to say I agree with the person that says this movie is probably a lot cornier to us than it is to those this movie was made for . Where to begin ? That is the question though . I guess I will start with the plot as Father Frost , or Jack Frost is not featured very much in this one . This one has a girl with a wicked stepmother , who is just such a wicked stepmother . She at one point makes the girls father abandon her in the woods . The stepmother has this unattractive daughter she is trying to marry off , not that the stepdaughter is very attractive either as she looks a little to young for the role . The hero meanwhile , leaves home , plays with Father Mushroom , and gets turned into a bear . At a later point he goes to a witch's house and the chases a pig sleigh . Yes , it is a very bad movie by our standards as it is definitely trying to show too much in to little time . To many plot points and other bad aspects really make this one seem worse than it is .
Killer dogs is more like it .	This movie sort of has a promising premise , but it utterly fails in how it plays out . Two guys and their boat come to an island to deliver supplies and take a passenger back with them . Unfortunately , there is a hurricane coming so they can not leave immediately , but must wait for the next day . Well it seems there is research being done on the island , and this research has produced some rather deadly results . Sounds good , eh ? It is not , none of the actors speak clearly having either very bad foreign accents or they slur because their character's drink a lot . Then there is the fact before there is any killings there is an awful lot of explaining going on . . . it takes a while for the killer shrews to make an appearance and when they do they look horrible so all the horror is undercut . Then there are just the stupid stuff that seems to go on . The shrews are stopped by a wooden fence , yet they can claw right through a house which for some reason is made with adobe . A man is clearly safe on the roof , but for some reason he climbs down and runs for it when there was clearly a better option earlier . And why oh why is this gal and guy engaged . It makes less sense here than in " Terror from the Year 5000 " . So in the end this movie is quite bad and yes the shrews look like a combo of puppets close up and dogs when they are seen from far away .
What happens when you kill off the characters to fast .	This movie starts out as a cheap rip-off of " Aliens " . A monster has gotten aboard a ship and it is methodically killing of the crew . Some interesting deaths , but nothing special . Well before you know it the entire crew with the exception of two of them is dead . I think this was supposed to be a wrap , but then they realized their film was way too short . Some one said " We need more movie here people " . So they brainstormed and the person who said " Let's make this into a family movie " must have won out . I am not going to say when this happens in the flick , but you will easily be able to tell yourself if you have the misfortune to watch this movie . I love how the deaths are rationalized . So if you want to see an " Alien " clone that does a complete 180 near the end then this is the movie for you .
Uncle boring is more like it .	This one did not appeal to me at all . I like John Candy and all , but this one just wasn't as funny as it could have been . The poster of it makes it look like a laugh riot , but for the most part I found this one rather dull . The premise has the parent's of three children having to go somewhere and they need someone to watch the kids . They turn to the father's brother . Instead of being really funny though , this one is only worth maybe a couple of chuckles as it takes itself to seriously at times and it mainly becomes Uncle Buck and the older daughter fighting and challenging each other's authority .
Really kinda boring .	This is a rather dull movie about a scientist that creates a teleporter device and gets horribly disfigured when he uses the machine to transport himself . Simple plot done before in the fly and others . Not only does he get disfigured , but he also can electrocute people with a touch . What is really dumb about this film is that we are expected to believe the place this guy works is against him . He could probably make millions for the institution that he is working at , but the head of the institution tries to sabotage his teleporter every step of the way . In the end the projected man electrocutes three people for no reason then goes after those that have wronged him .
What is the big deal ?	This movie is a cult hit , as people like to dress up as the characters and throw toast at the screen during their midnight screenings . However , for the most part , this film is awful to me . First off , it is a musical . . . and I hate musicals for the most part so me hating it could not be helped . Second , this movie has such an awful plot . . . what is the point of any of this ? Third , the singing of Susan Surandon and Barry Bostwick is totally awful even if I did like musicals . The story has a couple that wants to get married getting stranded on their way to a friend's house . They seek shelter in a nearby castle full of dancing and singing people . Then Tim Curry makes this guy and that is about it other than some really dumb plot twists ( What is up with the ending ? ) . The only parts I can say anything good about are the time warp dance scene and the scene with Meatloaf mainly because they are very high energy . Also , Surandon and Bostwick aren't doing the singing so the songs aren't totally butchered . Another interesting point is Charles Gray recounting the story . It is nice to see a former Bond villain doing the role of the criminologist . All in all though if you like musicals you may want to check it out if you have time to kill , but for the most part this movie did not appeal to me at all . I also think it is pointless to scream at the movie or throw toast or water at the screen . Quite frankly , you can do that with any movie if you wanted to , there is nothing that really indicates that this movie was made to do stuff like that .
I can not believe this was based on a novel .	The movie is rather bad and an unfunny comedy . The story , man has this song he writes and plays , somehow this song is like an invitation to Martians , the title characters . These characters are basically annoying , obnoxious , and dreadfully unfunny . And guess what ? They are the whole point of the film and drag the movie down with them . So most of the movie is the humans trying to get rid of them and then accepting them when the one guy who summoned them finally figures out how to get rid of them . Rob Snieder I think is one of the Martians , however , most of them are all the same . Rather indistinct , painted green and doing the same bit as all the others . Randy Quaid plays the lead guy , the one who did the accidental invitation . He also has the most problem with said aliens , as they are extremely irritating it makes one wonder who other characters seem to not have a problem with them . The magically appear at very awkward times and proceed to ruin intimate moments and any moment they are in . All this and this movie is supposed to be a comedy and it is highly unfunny .
As hard on horror movies as IMDb users are I can't believe this is rated so high . . .	I am a huge horror fan , I am rather apt to give a horror movie a free pass despite it not being all that good to others , but I thought this movie was an incredibly bad zombie movie . It made me yearn for any Italian zombie movie , yes a little goblin music , some really bad dubbing and a pointless nude scene , awwwww , how I remember those movies . Granted they were not very good either for the most part , but they were still fun to watch . This was very painful to watch , maybe because I have seen the last part of the movie before when it was done a lot better and it was called " Day of the Dead " , or maybe this just really sucked to me . It surprises me this one is rated so high here I mean my favorite part of the movie was the credits . So what is it about , a group of protesters and a group of loggers must ban together as zombies have taken over the woods . There are also strange redneck dudes at the end who I don't know what the heck they even do and they seem to be in the movie simply to extend the running time who take on the role of the military men of " Day of the Dead " . Well if you watch this one you're in for a wild ride as we first head into camp , camp empty takes guy forever to realize something is not right . Runs into survivors and then multiple plans of escape which results in the occasional zombie feeding time . This would be good with better pacing and zombies which like " Night of the Zombies " aka " Hell of the Living Dead " aka " Virus " stumble around like Joe Cocker when he really gets going on stage . There are also rather pointless plot points and things which are never really explained . . . Like how the heck do people apparently chained up for days not become zombie chow before people not tied up to trees ? If you wanna watch it go for it , it apparently is considered good to some , but I just did not care for it . Maybe it is because I watched a really good movie right before or something .
Horror at Fingle's Quarry !	This is a movie that starts out as one long beach party then the rest has really nothing to do with the beach . Radioactive waste is the culprit here . It causes dead skeletons to look like horrible monsters with hot dogs stuck in their mouths . What is really interesting is this radioactive waste can reanimate something that has been dead for a long time , but has absolutely no immediate effects on the fish just swimming around . Meanwhile , on the beach a couple who apparently have nothing in common are heading to the beach . They are having a rough patch so he goes to another gal and his girlfriend starts stripping with a biker gang . The dude gets angry at this for some reason and fights the leader of the gang and of course wins . The girlfriend proceeds to swim out to sea ( I am guessing to get away from the horrible band's music ) and is the first victim of the monsters . The gal the man was talking to while his girlfriend was stripping moves in before the ex-girlfriend's body is even cold . The beach is only in one more scene as the monsters kill New York ladies , a slumber party , two drunks , and various others . The hero's take their time finding the monsters saving the most obvious place to look for them last and the gal trips and falls . You know the same ol same ol .
Well they looked good in the shorts . . .	That is about the best thing I can say about this little Roger Corman flick about female prison escapees looking for diamonds in the swamp . And trust me that is about all there is to the plot , except one of them is a undercover policewoman and they come across a couple going to examine oil wells or something . Of course , it starts out with these two plots separate , but you know they are headed for a wacky collision in the swamp . And speaking of swamp , man there are a lot of shots of swamp in this one . This movie is not very long , but it still seems long as the scenes just all feel the same . I am wondering how the heck anyone can know the exact place something is buried out there when they haven't been there for three years . Still though you get to see gals in shorts and an alligator attack scene . . . wow , talk about action . Though after the one girl was killed by an alligator her boyfriend didn't seem all that upset . Well with a film of this kind you basically know what is going to happen so nothing to thrilling to be seen except for those shorts .
Teenagers ? What teenagers ?	First off , I have to say this is one of the most misleading titles I have ever seen . The other two titles were much more descriptive of the film . There is not a single spacemen in this flick that looks like a teenager , the only one that could pass for one is the hero and he looks well into his 20's . As for the story it actually had something to it . Spacemen come to our planet to raise horrible monsters beneficial to their survival . However , the execution is not very good as these monsters are just lobsters and they grow into lobsters that look like they are being waived in front of the projector . One of the spacemen doesn't like the idea of killing people on Earth so he turns against the others . He gets away thinking they are going to leave , but alas they decide to raise their pet lobsters and send a guy to kill our hero who somehow takes up with this girl and her grandfather . The killer gets lots of useful information from this grandfather and he is only to happy to oblige . Terrible effects , clunky dialog and plenty of death ray activity are to follow . Not a movie you would want to see everyday let me just say .
Unintentially funny .	Even without mystery science theater this one would still be full of laughs . It starts with a professor of some sort explaining all this theories of what is in the center of the earth , and boy are they not even close to the truth . Then you meet the troops as John Agar and the Beaver's dad and the rest of the team are doing research on artifacts . They find something that prompts them to climb the mountain and then one of the men falls down a hole so you get to watch men climbing down a hole for a good ten minutes . Then they get trapped and stumble upon an ancient civilization underground ruled by white elves in dumb costumes . Of course the logic in this movie is a bit suspect as the men probably didn't go down more than a hundred feet and they were on a mountain so I doubt the place could have been as big as made out to be . The mole people look especially stupid , but at least there clothes look more normal than the elves . And the one seen where the elf people are whipping the mole men does sort of make you wanna sing that old Devo song . And watch for the old man who does nothing , but slow Agar and the Beaver's dad down with his constant whinning .
These zombies don't eat much flesh .	I saw this movie under the title " Zombie Flesh Eaters " , but do not let the title fool you , this is not a gory zombie movie . In fact it is a really boring zombie movie . It is part of the series " The Blind Dead " , and from what I saw here I am not going to rush out for the first two installments unless someone tells me they are a lot better . This movie has these two bimbos stranded on a boat and they run across a toy ship in a bathtub ( well that is what it looks like ) . Something happens to them and a rescue team comes to find them . On board the toy ship are the slowest moving zombies ever to be seen on film . . . and they don't eat their prey , instead they drop their prey or they take an hour to drag their prey down stairs . The plot , the story , and everything about this film is very dull and boring for the most part .
I would give it a one , but I like Spider-man and the X-men to much to do that to them .	I looked forward to this game when I heard of its release . I so wanted to buy it , but my dad insisted I rent it first . I have to say he was right as this had to be one of the most disappointing games I have ever played . I was a huge Spider-man and X-Men fan and this game promised to give me my favorite heroes in one game going against the insane Arcade . The premise was good , the opening story was good , the game not so much . First , it is insanely hard . . . I don't think I was able to complete but a couple of levels . I think the Spider-man levels were the ones I could actually do . Wolverine was in it as well . . . someone had a swimming level I think Storm . Other than that I can not clearly remember other X-men used . Maybe Cyclops and NightCrawler . All in all thanks to the hard and relatively short gameplay this game would be the typical X-men game released during this time . They had many games released and they all were usually really hard or short or both . Spidey had a couple of better games , but his greatness did not really start till that game for the playstation one came out . So if you want a game that really sucks and is to hard featuring the x-men and Spidey then go for this pile of crap .
Title is kinda misleading	I saw this movie on mystery science theater when it was called " It lives by night " . That title is much less misleading than " Batpeople " . In fact it would more accurately be called Batperson . This movie is about a doctor who studies bats I am thinking because he wants to make a better cure for rabies . This is not really clear . What is clear is that he and his wife take a tour of a cave and he gets bitten by a bat . Why a scientist needs to take a tour to study bats is beyond me . Shouldn't he be able to go in by himself . Well after being bitten he and his wife go on their honeymoon where he starts having fits . They go to the worst doctor ever . The guy stays in the hospital and kills a nurse . In the end the guy kills 3-4 people and his wife stands by him and you are supposed to be rooting for him instead of the sheriff investigating the murders .
Well not indestructible per se .	This movie actually had a rather good concept going for it , it is just bogged down by a few to many talking scenes and not enough of the indestructible man ravaging and killing in the city for my tastes . The story has a man sentenced to death right at the outset of the movie . He swears he is going to take down the three men who double crossed him during an armored car robbery . Well he is gassed and his body is intercepted on the way to the morgue by a doctor performing experiments on how to cure cancer . Somehow , instead of finding the cure for cancer he instead finds the cure for death and so the indestructible man is born ! Yes , the good doctor has not only revived our doomed prisoner , but has given him strength and super tough skin capable of withstanding an onslaught of bullets . So the indestructible man thanks the good doctor and his assistant for the help by killing them and goes after the three men who set him up . And by setting up I do not mean to say this guy was innocent , no he just got all the blame for the crime . So during all this we have a cop trying to track the stolen money which was never recovered by going after this dancer girl and various scenes here and there of the indestructible man doing what indestructible men do . The movie would have played out better if it flowed faster , because even though it is short , it still moves at a snails pace at times . Not that it was only a step or two away from being a blockbuster or anything . . . it could have a least achieved a status of a rather good b horror picture .
Kinda jumbled	This movie does not flow very well . The movie starts out with a burglar breaking into a house . He gets shot and Mitchell is on the scene . He then is assigned to watch over this other guy , who is connected to two other guys . These guys may or may not have some connection with the first guy who shot the burglar ( I think he is one of their lawyers ) . Meanwhile , Mitchell is breaking every rule in the department and violating constitutional rights . Shooting people who aren't a threat , sleeping with hookers , and entering a house without a search warrant . In fact he wouldn't get anything done if not for one of the criminals bringing him into the fold . Oh yes , the clown also does the famous stick your fingers into the highly addictive drugs to taste it ( police do not do this if they want to keep from becoming hooked on the drug themselves ) . In fact , he really covers his fingers with the stuff and takes a big ol ' taste . I think he was disappointed that it wasn't heroine . Also , there is this most annoying scene involving Mitchell and this kid that will make you scream .
This movie just sucked . . . warning contains spoilers ! ! !	This movie was really bad . Seeing the previews I was expecting so much , but got so little . It is hard to find a point to start with my complaints but here goes . First , were the previews themselves , they led me to believe the army was going to raid the island . That would have been great some dinosaurs getting blasted , some army men getting killed . Instead the army was not involved very much and it was just the same ol look at the dinosaurs aren't they neat ! Jeff Goldblum's character is the only member remaining from the first one that remembers dinosaurs were on the island . Who knew the old man made them sign a I will keep my mouth shut contract because know one will believe me anyway . And what is the point of his daughter the super gymnst who can kick a raptor down , but couldn't make the team ? That is just one example of the flaws in this movie . Another major problem was when the T-Rex was shipped to the US . It arrives locked in the bunker and the crew is all gone except an arm here and there . What the heck happened to the darn crew ? The T-rex was locked below , did he just decide to go back down , did the crew eat each other , or maybe they simply exploded ( because let's face it there was no damage to the ship and a T-rex running amok on deck will cause some ) . And who thought of the last part of the movie . Apparently you were supposed to root for Goldblum and Moore locking the T-rex in the cargo hold and not the person about to blast the thing and end its artificial life . This after the t-rex killed many innocent people and a doggy . I am sorry I was close to yelling waste him in the theater . To sum up this movie sucks , big time ! I saw this movie once and I never want to see it again . My final gripe is another stupid problem with this film . Does every single person killed have to flop behind a tree or car before there eaten . I understand that they wanted to keep this PG-13 , but really everyone looked like rodeo clowns .
Attack of the guys in garbage bags .	This movie is about giant killer leeches , hence the title . They are also quite intelligent for leeches as they take out one guy who has fingered them and they can keep people in a cave as hostages . One of the first people to be taken is a woman and a guy that she has been having an affair with after they are chased down by the husband . During all of this our heroes slowly track down the creatures , some wanting to use dynamite the local conservationist saying no . Quite frankly I think the dynamite kills those being held by the giant leeches which do in fact look like people in garbage bags . All in all a bad movie that moves relatively slowly for a movie of its length . The acting is pretty over the top bad , but the woman who played the cheating wife was cute . Still that alone can not save a movie where the heroes stop and drink coffee while searching the river for bodies or clues as to why people and gators are being killed in the waters . I am surprised the leeches did not skip town when they were fingered .
An agent who dares to . . .	fail . Yes the hero in this one will get no medal for his work in this one . The movie is trying to be a Bond movie , but when you only have a camera , 25 dollars , and one weekend to shoot . . . you may want to rethink that idea . The movie is about an agent protecting a scientist and his hot neice . He does this by hanging around their house for the weekend . Meanwhile , the villains including Prince and a bunch of other lugs are developing a biological weapon that turns people into fungus . The hero offs a couple of people once strangling a guy with a coat hanger and the second time by frying a person with a tv and of course he flirts endlessly with this gal who is young enough to be his daughter . He also reports to his boss who seems to be drunk . By the end of the movie our hero finally leaves the one location and then we find out why he so wanted to stay there because he really screws up big time away from it .
Introduces the sport of sidehacking .	This movie is quite bad . Though in the end I still feel a bit for the guy . This movie starts out as being kind of an advertisement for a sport called sidehacking . In it a motorcycle is equipped with kind of a side car and the person in that leans into the curves to help you turn and stuff . Though I am pretty sure you can gain more speed and turn better without that feature . Then plot points are introduced as our sidehacking friends who are also mechanics meet this group of rejects who do stunt shows or something . They want the main guy to join , but he is inclined not to . The lead guy of the stunt people has a girl who falls for our hero and this leads to all the trouble . Why the hero can't let her down easily is beyond me , but she runs to the JC or JT ( leader of the stunt show ) and says the hero messed her up . Well one thing leads to another and we now have a revenge flick on our hands where sidehacking is no longer used at all . The hero gets some guys together and for some reason forbids the use of weaponry and they go to get revenge on JT or JC . Very boring for the most part , with very little in the way of action till the very end . Watching them Sidehack is kind of funny though .
This one is kind of lame . . . spoilers .	Yes , I am just going to tell you about this one so don't read if you want surprises . I got this one with the title Christmas Evil . There was also another Christmas horror on the DVD called Silent Night , Bloody Night . Whereas Silent Night , Bloody Night ( not to be confused with Silent Night , Deadly Night ) had lots of potential and was very close to being good , this one wasn't quite as good . It started out interesting enough watching the villain ( if you can call him that ) watching the neighborhood kids and writing in books about who is naughty and nice , but after awhile you are looking for some action and this movie doesn't deliver . You need character development , but this goes overboard and you are still never sure why the heck the guy snaps . About an hour in he kills three of four people while a whole crowd watches in terror , and the guys he kills aren't even his targets they are just making fun of him . This is one of many unsuccessful attempts by the killer to knock of the naughty . He then proceeds to try and kill this other guy , and he tries to break into his house by squeezing himself into the fireplace . He promptly gets stuck and barely manages to get out . He then enters through the basement and then tries to kill the guy by smothering him in his bedroom . He can't seem to kill the guy this way so he grabs a star off the tree and slits the guys throat . What the heck was a tree even doing in the bedroom in the first place ? Oh yeah , the killer before this kill stopped off at a party and had some fun too . Well that is about it except for the town people chasing him with torches and the unresolved part with his brother and that tune he wants to play . What was that even about ? He kept talking about something that was never really explained . How does it end you ask , well since I have spoilers I will tell you . He runs off the road in his van and proceeds to , well lets just say it was lame ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Troma-they make Full Moon studios look good .	What to say about this movie . Well it is about a bunch of good students who have some bad drugs and turn into delinquent students that sell more of the bad drugs to people . Two of those people have adverse effects as one turns into a toxic avenger type and his girlfriend throws up some creature that grows in the school's basement . That is about all there is to it and they stretch it out for 84 minutes . This movie is pretty bad and should be locked away forever . Though that is not fair , some people like Troma's movies and they can watch it if they want . Troma movies for me though , are the worst movies there are out there . I just watched this one out of morbid curiosity .
Boring Beach .	The movie trailers for this one made it look a lot better than it turned out . From what I saw it looked like during a crowded day at the beach , people suddenly were being sucked under the sand and killed . What we get is one spot on a giant beach sometimes kills people if they walk there at the wrong time . So let me just say there isn't much blood and there aren't all that many deaths in this one . In fact it is a rather boring movie for the most part and not very enjoyable . The ending is really bad as the monster is revealed . It would have been a much better movie if it was about something moving under the sand and killing a bunch of people , but what can you do ?
I liked " Troll " , but this one is bad .	How bad is it ? It is very bad indeed . . . it probably even deserves its ranking in the bottom 100 movies here unlike some others on the list . This one has nothing at all to do with the first " Troll " ; the only thing they share in common is their name . In fact , I think they refer to the creatures in this one as goblins rather than trolls . A couple of other things the two movies have in common is the family moving to a new place , though it was only supposed to be temporary here , and the old lady that lets her hair down and is mysteriously hot . Here it is very pointless and stupid , and the only good I can say of it is that the woman is hotter than the one from part one . Here we have people drinking really bad milk and becoming plants or something and the goblins chow down on this . Not as good as it sounds this movie is just so bad . Don't watch it , you are not missing anything here . . . the only reason I gave it a two instead of a one is that I did snicker a bit at how the boy prevented the monsters from wanting to eat him other than that though this movie is just bad .
If it wasn't for Pesci , I would have given it a 1 .	This is just one movie that I cannot stand . I am not wild about movies that are mainly about kids who get the best of adults , and this definitely fits the bill as one of those movies . What really gets me , is this kid would not have gotten into all the trouble he did if he wasn't such a brat . The family is trying to organize this big trip with all these other relatives , and all the their younger son can do is whine and complain . " I don't want to sleep with that kid " , " I have to have my pizza a certain way " , stuff like that . . . and he is supposed to be the kid we are pulling for ? We get to see him left alone and do all the things kids do when they are left alone . Watch black and white old movies . Yes , and this kid is such a wimp that a black and white mobster pick scares him . Though he uses it so wisely later in the movie ( yeah right , that would work ) . This kid somehow outsmarts the two thieves even though earlier one of them is smart enough to impersonate a police officer and check all the security of the houses in the neighborhood . I guess his intelligence went down a notch or two . Then there are the many clever traps that usually consist of someone getting hit in the groin area . . . ha ha ha ! It is always so funny to see someone get hit there and writhe in agony . All in all this is just one bad movie that I did not care for at all . I just wish the kid got into some kind of trouble for all the problems he caused .
Who was that guy ?	This movie is about a pop star who is tired and needs rest badly , so her doctor sends her to the most hideous farm you have ever seen . Not only is this farm bad looking , but they raise bees ( they sure convey a sense of peace and serenity ) . We are expected to believe that during the busy season this place is a kind of cool place to stay . Beyond the farms appearance and the apparent lack of things to do there are the deadly bees . Though in the end these bees only kill one person and a dog ( you could say two people , but the last one was really more the result from panic ) . Who is behind these deadly bees ? Chances are you will figure it out long before the pop star does ( she is a bit dense ) . During the time you will see the bees kill a dog and a woman ( which is a bit gross looking ) , you will see the bees attack a bunch of people and not kill them , and you will see two scenes where they review what happened in the movie . The end is a bit funny though as you see a man walking up during the credits and you wonder " was he late for the film ? "
Well there is one giant spider .	Why this movie is called Giant Spider Invasion I will never know . For one , there is only one giant spider , two , it isn't really an invasion . The plot starts at some redneck's home where from out of the blue something lands in their back yard . Then a bunch of tv stars and b movies stars try to figure out what happened . Then a giant spider which I believe is really a dune buggy terroizes the countryside . For the most part the spiders are just tarantulas which are rather big , but not giant . You will love the scene where they discuss black holes and how they relate to the spiders as well as how they kill the spiders , because it is a clear example of cheap movie science .
This one is just terrible .	I enjoyed the cartoon as a kid , and so I thought I would check out the live action version . Boy , it wasn't anything like the movie and just plain sucked . Matthew Broderick just isn't a good choice for this role , but it isn't entirely his fault . Whoever edited this film should be shot along with the person who thought having the car talk was a good idea . The person who conceived of the plot deserves blame too . In the cartoon Inspector Gadget , it was never shown how he got that way , but here they do . He also isn't on the street five seconds before the villain makes a clone of him for crying out loud to frame him . What is up with that ? That is more a plot device for a sequel . And why do we have to have an actor play the Claw . . . I don't think you ever saw him in the cartoon . The jokes were awful too , and what is with his gadgets . I don't remember him having so many gadgets that served no purpose at all in the cartoon . They also don't show the gadgets working very long either as most of the time they just show Broderick's face . Avoid this one at all costs .
Who could the killer be ? Maybe that obvious fellow over there in the shadows !	Yes , I knew who the killer was when he appeared on screen the first time . No hints were needed I just thought it was telegraphed a bit to much . Look at me , aren't I the obvious killer ! ! ! Well the movie is about a strangler who targets women , not just teens as one of the victims is an older lady . Of course , the law suspects Jimmy of the crime . . . why not ? He was out that night , having snuck out of his house to make out with his gal . Quite frankly , she just about fingers him as she sees the crime in progress and thinks she recognizes the jacket as belonging to a gang of really slow racer dudes . Yes , nothing all that surprising in this one as the only thing that did shock me was how awful that song was they were singing in the diner scene . Oh , and the shower scene , actually rather good considering the time the movie was made . . . it actually seemed a tad risqué . So while it was not a great movie , in fact quite bad it was still not boring to watch and kept ones focus .
Good choice for Supergirl , but the plot is not good .	This is one painful movie to watch . The only character to cross over from Superman is the guy who played Jimmy Olsen and you can see why no one else would want to be seen in this one . They seem to change a lot of things around that were clearly established in the Superman series and then there is the horrible plot as well . Supergirl played by Helen Slater who is probably a good choice to play the role must retrieve a ball that keeps her people alive in inner space or something . All I know is that Supergirl somehow gets to earth by way of a lake . The ball falls into the hands of Faye Dunaway who somehow knows how to use it and she does all sorts of evil things as she is trying to get a younger guy to like her ( kind of desperate , eh ? ) . She somehow even sends Supergirl to the phantom zone . . . in Superman it was a mirror in space ; here it is an entire world . All in all this one just suffers from a really bad script and very bad overacting as well . I have only seen the original theatrical release however , and not the 140 minute cut which may explain a few of my complaints .
Is he friendly or deadly ?	This movie combines the friendly alien and the killer alien into one adventure . Well actually it is almost like watching three movies , and none of them are very good . First , you have poachers , then you have a kid living with relatives of some sort , then of course are the wacky teens going camping . Then there are the two aliens , both look alike , but their personalities differ . One is on the rampage , killing people here and there . The stupid thing is I just don't see how anyone dies . Sure one girl falls off a cliff and her friends pick her up and jostle her around continuously , but everyone else seems to die for no reason . The monster hits the people with very weak karate chops ( the alien looks like Alf ) and the people fall over dead . The friendly alien starts as an egg that the boy raises . This alien has powers to move stuff around that the other alien seems to be lacking . In the end it is just a bad movie . The boy says all the aliens want it to be their friends and sure the one he raises is nice enough , but the other one is killing indiscrimintly .
This one was bad even when I was a kid .	I saw this one as a kid and from what I remember it was quite bad . Though if you look at its box office take it actually did rather well cause it was really cheap . And the cheapness shows throughout . It is just stupid . They were in the future or something and this one guy is being chased by someone else that wants the super parasite monster . There is this gang also involved too somewhere in the movie . The only thing worth seeing is Demi Moore in her first feature film . It is kind of like Meg Ryan in " Amityville 3D " . . . I guess you have to get your start somewhere . The monster doesn't show up nearly enough and it really isn't all that great anyway . In fact , as a kid this movie was kind of boring to me , and as a kid I was more easily entertained than I am now .
I can't believe this is rated so high .	For me , it just didn't seem like GI Joe at all . When I watched it as a kid , I just didn't care for it . In fact the part I liked best about this one was the opening credits . They change so many facts around and turn the story around as well . Cobra Commander is supposedly part of this stupid race of reptile people in Antarctica or somewhere that is frozen . Though I always thought he was a normal guy considering every time you saw his eyes in the series they were surrounded by normal colored flesh and not the blue his face was here . There is just too much crap in this one to try and make this a spectacular movie , but for me it just ruins what I watched the series for in the first place .
Rather small for a giant alligator .	I enjoyed the first " Alligator " , but this one just does not live up to that one . Not that the first one is a superb movie , but it was a lot of fun . This one just is not good at all . The main problem for me was that the alligator was not all that impressive quite frankly . I have seen alligators this size before . The only thing different about it , is the fact it is tougher to kill . The story here isn't good either and neither is the action . They go into the sewers to hunt it then it attacks some festival and then they figure away to kill it . This movie is not going to knock your socks off with buckets of gore and it isn't very interesting either , best just to skip it . It just does not measure up to the first one .
Well it was bad , but it was short and it wasn't boring .	Yes , this movie could be the very definition of low budget movie . The film quality sucks , the make-up makes the zombies in " Hell of the Living Dead " look oscar worthy , and at times it seems the movie is just one random scene after another . Still though , it was funny to watch and it is really short so it is over before you know it . How this movie got a special dvd release is beyond me when much better horror movies are a lot harder to find . This movie has a town infested with badly made up zombies that seem to suck blood and in other scenes seem to just want to kill . The story itself had potential , but the result on the screen is very low budget . Not a lot of gore , but there is some nudity to see in a rather pointless scene . The end is a bit abrupt too as nothing is really resolved at all . The zombies are also not very consistant as they can withstand gunfire , but a comb takes one of them out . Still though I have seen worse and it is a good movie to make fun of .
The waters are dark , but not scary in any way .	Very disappointed in this one , considering I had once been told that the Japanese version of this is actually better than the Japanese version of " The Ring " . I just don't see that being the case unless we totally reworked the movie into something completely different and very very boring . There is really nothing to this movie , in the end there are no real surprises what you think is what you get and it plays more like a movie about child custody set against the backdrop of a haunted apartment complex . I do not blame the cast , as they all did a good job , but sometimes a movie is just bad for other reasons such as story , lack of mood , and no real scares considering this is supposed to be horror . Actually , I can now see why this movie is listed as a drama first , thriller second , and lastly a horror . In fact , they should just drop the horror part . The story , mother moves into a very unattractive apartment complex on an island in New York while in the midst of said custody battle . Water drips from the ceiling in the bed room and seems to be originating from the upstairs apartment . Could be rowdy kids pulling a prank or something on a more supernatural note , but this does not help the mother as she starts questioning her sanity . Throw in a few scenes of a ghost that almost seem not to belong in this film and you have your movie . You may want to check it out if you like a really mild thriller , but otherwise if you are looking for scares , alas there are very few of them ( actually I would say there are none ) I would avoid this movie and wait for the next Japanese horror turned American remake or see something of ours that isn't rated pg-13 and can put ya to sleep . Though if you do go and you do fall asleep , just ask the person next to you what you missed and they will probably tell you " Absolutely nothing " . And on a side note , don't vote yes or no on my review of this movie unless you have not seen it and this review proved helpful or not helpful in you deciding to see it , because that is what it asks not whether you agree with it or disagree like so many people seem to think it says .
Boring with the exception of the guy playing Poe .	The guy who was Poe was certainly the highlight of this very dull flick . Unfortunately , he is not in it enough to save the pick , rather he is sort of a movie bookend . For the rest of the movie we have a guy trying to win a bet by staying at a haunted house . A house no one has ever gotten out of alive . . . so basically he has to survive the night to win the bet . If he loses , well losing will be the least of his concerns . As soon as he arrives at the castle he meets lovely ladies and later a scientist who explains the situation . All the while nothing all that horrifying really occurs as we are treated to a few flashback like scenes . Truly a boring spectacle awaits you when you watch this flick . . . at least for me . Sure the scientist guy was kind of interesting too , but this is a movie that could use maybe a killing or two more , maybe a bit of nudity , certainly some time cut from its running time would have helped . Still though it ends interestingly enough and there are some people who may like this kind of horror drama hybrid .
That is how I felt after paying to see this one .	Not that it didn't have its moments , but this is definitely one that should have gone directly to video . It just seems very poorly made . This movie also has Sherman Hemslely in a rather large role so once I saw that flash on the screen , I knew the film would be kind of generic . Still I like Norm MacDonald and he does his best , though he doesn't have much to work with . This movie has a butler who kidnaps his boss's dog , but the dog goes away . The police find a ransom note and Norm's blood everywhere and think he is the one who was kidnapped . There is a twist at the end anyone will see a mile away and there are some humorous scenes with Danny DeVito , but for the most part I wouldn't look too hard to find this movie .
This Godzilla movie is rather dull .	This Godzilla movie seems rather long . Longer than the time that it says it lasts . This one I found really dull and boring as a child . Godzilla isn't really in it all that much as it is mainly about these really dumb looking space aliens . They have a problem on their planet . . . it seems the mighty King Gidorah is attacking their planet . Astronauts who claimed this new planet are asked by the space men for the monsters Godzilla and Rodan . We say sure and give them the monsters . Then the earth finds out that the space men just wanted to take over the planet so they now have all three monsters and send them on the rampage . This one was just bad as the final battle really sucks and how they defeat the space men is really lame . Like I said this one is just boring as it is very slow paced .
Why is Arnold in this ?	I figure the company that made this movie wanted people to think of the Conan movies , but unfortunately for the ones who made this one it does just that . You will be thinking , man the Conan movies were pretty cool . . . this one is totally boring and sucks . The story , who cares ? It isn't going to help you like this movie more or less as it just seems like a really cheap film . Arnold , doesn't look like he belongs in this one , why he agreed to play the role is beyond me . Well probably for the money . I just love the monster in the water that turns out to be a machine . Lame ! This movie is just plain and simply terrible .
Look who is puking .	That would be me . I just can't stand these types of movies where you hear the movie from a baby's perspective . Well I guess this trilogy is the only movies that do that . This movie for the most part , for me , wasn't very funny . The only character worth a few laughs in this one was George Segals character as he has some scenes that were capable of making me chuckle . All in all though this story of a mother and her son just is awful . Too much cutesy stuff in it , but then what do you expect from a movie with a baby on the cover ? Travolta plays a taxicab driver / pilot and really isn't very good here and Kristie Alley is the mother of Mickey the baby voiced by Bruce Willis .
This duck simply was destined not to fly .	This movie was a bomb when it was released , but fortunately over the years it has attained a sort of cult following so there are people who enjoy this film . I am not one of them , however , I found this movie a bit boring with a rather stupid concept . Not that it doesn't have anything to it , I actually chuckle at some of it , overall though it is not much of a ride . I have to agree with the one reviewer that said one of the problems with this movie is that it looks cheap . Which is surprising considering we have the man who made the Star Wars trilogy behind this film . Unfortunately , you can't tell he had anything to do with this movie as the effects look like a cheap science fiction television show's special effects . The duck , the star of the show is annoying and the star of the show should not be a character you tire of hearing from during the course of the movie . Then there is the switch in the flick from a bit of a comedy to strange alien invasion movie that adds seriousness and action to a movie that would have probably benefited greatly from more comedy and a change in the way Howard spoke . Then the movie ends with a rock concert ending that is so lame you will roll your eyes and turn off your tape or change the channel before it finishes . It is funny though that I think this movie originated from a comic book . At the time there were so many comic books that had yet been translated to the big screen , I wonder why they decided to make this one ?
Cars just don't scare me .	I caught this one on the sci-fi channel and thought I would watch it and have to say it isn't very good . Maybe it is the fact that it is a car that is killing people kind of like " Christine " that turns me off . I just don't find the concept of a ghost car all that scary or even interesting . This one has this mysterious car running people off the road and killing them . One guy's wife ends up even being killed by the car and that is one good point of the movie , cause it sure was surprising and I wasn't expecting it . Once the town realizes what the heck they are dealing with the devise a way to stop it . The end though is quite lame . One thing though that will stick with you is the horn to the car . You will always remember how it sounds .
Its bad that even as a kid this one made me groan .	" I have an idea " someone said , " lets make a sequel to Meatballs and have it be completely moronic and groan inducing ! " . After the movie was made and released the person said " dude , I was making a joke " . And so Meatballs 2 was made and while it is in fact about a summer camp and more of a sequel to the original than the third one is , I still think this one is the worst of the bunch . Granted a few jokes make me chuckle which is why I nicely gave this movie a three rather than a one or two . The plot ? Why bother , it involves some dude who does not want to be a counselor , an alien , and a brawl for it all boxing match between two summer camps , one regular and a military type one . That is the gist of it , and if you are wondering , yes the alien is friendly and probably inserted thanks to the success of E . T . two years prior . Bill Murray is not in this movie and can you blame him , while they made this movie he was making Ghostbusters . Instead they got Richard Mulligan , who I like in some roles , not this one . They also begin easing this series of movies into more of a teen sex series , but only lightly in this one .
Anthology movies need more than two stories .	This movie starts out with kids telling each other urban legends such as the poodle in the microwave and getting something extra at a chicken place . Unfortunately , it then turns to your basic anthology movie . The first being about a janitor with a bit of a secret . This one is okay at best . Then it gets worse as the next story about this kid obsessed with dead flies is on and it goes on and on and on . It is way to long and not all that interesting to begin with . After that you get the typical shock scene and it ends . You need more than this in an anthology movie . You need at least three stories and one shouldn't be so long it becomes dreadfully uninteresting especially considering you can see how it is going to end a mile away .
Just giant rats in this one .	In the first one it was mainly giant rats , but there were some wasps and a giant chicken too . This one , however , is just giant rats period , well giant rats and one really growing little boy . This one is about this growing boy and a scientist that is trying to help him so he accidentally creates giant killer rats . . . you know how it is . This movie has some kills and its moments , but I find it to be on par with the original , I just prefer some variety in my giant creature movies . Well , that is not true . . . I actually like " Empire of the Ants " , maybe I just do not care for giant rodents . All in all a rather drab movie though it does have one rather odd turn of events in this one dream sequence that is truly bizarre . I just can't recommend this one .
Just did not add up to much in any field for me .	I only got this one because it came free when I bought " The Mist " on DVD . I am sure glad I never bought it . I thought about it at one time , but I have never been much of a Christina Ricci fan and she is the star of this one . Unfortunately , her scenes drag the movie down , not she is bad , but for me the most interesting scenes involved the discovery of the church . The story has a girl hit by a step mum with her kid in the car . The woman grateful the girl is okay lets her stay with her and her husband in their rather big house . The husband is a researcher of some sorts looking at the remains of the church mentioned above . There is something different about said church . There are also mysterious people showing up in town that seemingly know Ricci's character . A rather good death at the beginning of the film and a few premonition scenes like one would find in the movie " The Sixth Sense " scattered throughout the movie . Then at the end a couple of more deaths and the startling revelation which I had figured out a bit before the end . Did not really startle me . So not much horror , not much tension , a mystery that really was not to hard to figure out and the pacing was a bit slow with needless plot points . However , someone else may well think this movie is great , just not my taste .
Steve Martin was the lone bright spot for me .	My dislike for musicals is well documented and this one is no exception . Though this one did feature a rather funny performance by Steve Martin . Without him the movie would have been completely unwatchable . As it is , any scene without him is rather boring and lame . I just had the hardest time watching this thing . The story has some 50's style to it , and it may appeal to people who liked that age . However , it is a musical so it was not going to appeal to me .
Harvey Korman is given the main billing . . . that should tell you something .	Not a knock on Korman as he was very funny on the Carol Burnett show . He was also good at playing secondary characters in Mel Brooks ' movies ( " High Anxiety " comes to mind ) . He is , however , not a person who can carry a movie in dueling roles no less . This one is basically a " Gremlins " knockoff , following a tradition of such movies as " Critters " and " Ghoulies " . It is not a very good knockoff either , on par with " Ghoulies " , but with a much lighter tone to it as it is no where near as dark as that movie got . In fact , this one is too light and frothy , and unfortunately many of the jokes end up falling flat . Though I did give it a 3 for a score , this is only because there is a movie that is even a worse " Gremlin " knockoff . If you watched Mystery Science Theater 3000 you know the one I am talking about . . . the infamous " Hobgoblins " . This one has a guy finding a little critter in some underground place ( I only saw this movie once a long time ago so I don't remember everything to clearly ) and it starts out friendly enough . However , this creature quickly becomes unfriendly and of course more are spawned and that is the movie . More misses than hits in the joke department , and it is also really lame to see Korman playing the evil brother role . Best to skip this one , but then you may want to check it out just for kicks .
I didn't like it , but I can't really say stay away from it .	In 1989 you knew Rick Moranis was going to be in one of the top movies of the summer , but most would probably have said that it was going to be Ghostbusters 2 . Well they were wrong it was this rather bad adventure movie for the kids . That isn't entirely fair for me to say , it just did not work for me , but other kids may like it . I was also 14 or 15 when I saw it so I just did not enjoy this family film . First of all it came with a really bad Roger Rabbit short . This was when they were still trying to make him into something , but that ended thankfully . After that we are treated to a rather unfunny comedy adventure about an inventor who develops the most useless of inventions . . . the shrink ray . Well I guess it does have some uses . Well suffice to say Rick Moranis is the only person in the movie that got off a few lines I chuckled too , but other than that this movie is a pretty standard shrink movie . Reminded me of the old TV show " Land of the Giants " I think it was called . The kids end up outside thanks to some house cleaning and there is where some stupid things occur such as befriending of an ant and the deadly scorpion . . . an insect that isn't all that common in the back yard of most homes unless this movie took place in Arizona or somewhere else west . There is also a bee ride and this makes up all the insects in the entire yard . Just not very realistic and I am pretty sure you can't befriend an ant . Like I said , I really did not care for this one , but it might be good for younger children so don't totally dismiss it .
Hey , Johnny Cash is in town ! ! !	This movie picks up somewhat from where the last one left off and it is not very good . Myers having endured the shotgun barrage is found by a dude living in a shack . For some reason he keeps Myers a whole year in an unconscious state and when Halloween comes about Myers shows his appreciation by killing the guy who deserved to die for letting Myers stay there without reporting it . He once again goes after his niece who is still annoying , but thankfully at the beginning of this one she can't talk . We are introduced to the sister again and this friend who we have never seen before , but apparently means more to the little girl than her sister . The girl is connected to Myers somehow and throws fits whenever he is about to kill . Unfortunately , this fits save no one as after the person is warned they get away , decide there is no danger and get killed . On the plus side we get to see this real jerk get killed . Myers scratches his car then kills him , it was sweet . Another scene has the gal we have never seen , but means so much to the little girl get saved by the police , but then she just has to go see her jerk boyfriend . Typical gal , everyone says don't go , but they do . The last part of the film has Pleasance using the girl as bait to capture Myers . The most absurd part of the movie comes here as Myers takes off his mask and reveals no scars from the fire that engulfed him . And what is with the tear on Myers cheek . . . that was quite lame . How Myers gets defeated in this one is laughable too , considering he survived that shotgun attack and being totally consumed in flames . On the plus side this movie did give Donald another movie he could headline . And I just have to mention this , but all through the movie you see the feet of this guy . All you see is black boots and a black long coat . That is where the Cash reference came in . I have no idea who is , I think it is explained in part six , but I missed that one .
This movie is more than just arm wrestling . . . it would have to be wouldn't it ?	Yes , if the movie was just arm wrestling it would be kind of hard to make the entire movie revolve around it and still be motion picture length . So how do you fill the rest of the time up , you add the touching story of a man trying to reunite with the son he left for his mother and grandfather to raise long ago . A plot straight from the lifetime movie channel that makes all the growling and yelling at the arm wrestling tournament all the more stupid . The saving grace of this movie is the rather good soundtrack . The music is good and saves this otherwise to sappy and overemotional movie . The arm wrestling tournament at the end is full of colorful characters , but they are not really delved into because we are busy trying to have the son driving to the matches to see his dad and they can have the sappy reunion . We get lots of arguing between father and son , mother and grandfather , grandfather and father this and that and we get a big migraine . Perhaps this is to better distract us from things that happen in the matches such as Hawks ( Stallone's character ) being in the perfect grid to face Bull Hurley in the final showdown or other strange occurrences like the fact Bull never seemed beaten at any time on his road to the finals . Of course , this type of movie is kind of Sylvestor's type is it not ? He had Rocky and some other sports themed movie about wrestling that is not quite as well known . To bad he did not make more like that cop one he did with Billy Dee Williams , now that one was good .
What a waste of a villian .	When this came out everyone tried to get me to see this at the theaters , but I never really had the urge . A couple of years later I watched it and I am glad I didn't go to the theater to see this . The thing that gets me is they had such a cool villian and there was most definately not a cool fight between him and our heros . In fact how the villian was defeated was a big disappointment . Aside from Shredder none of the characters are worth mentioning . A bunch of stupid plot points and other things . Another dumb point is the rat in the cage mimiking karate . . . the cartoon did it better with the man becoming a rat , the rat becoming more human is just a bit to stupid . This movie will probably entertain kids , but not to many adults .
Took itself way to seriously .	This movie looked really funny in the trailers . . . I found , however , that most of the funnier scenes were already shown in the trailers show there wasn't much else to see . All the funny stuff happens within the first 10 or so minutes into this one and after that there are just one or two more laughs scattered here and there . For the most part I found this movie way to serious , and it wasn't entertaining to me . I can see how others can relate to it , but I am a single guy with no kids or girlfriend . . . so I cannot really relate to it . If you are a parent though it might be worth your while to ignore this review and go ahead and watch the movie .
The worst of the bunch for me .	Of the Police Academy movies the worst of the bunch for me is the final movie in the series to star Steve Guttenberg as Mahoney . The jokes are the same , the cast is the same the only difference here is they are training citizens to help fight crime in a neighborhood watch type deal . Mauser is gone , replace once again by Harris and I liked Mauser better as he and Proctor to me worked better . Bobcat is back which is bad , as is most of the jokes in this very forgettable movie . Seriously , other than a plot point or two here and there it is very hard to recall this movie other than I did not care for it except for when Proctor ends up letting a whole slew of criminals escape and we have our typical Police Academy ending . I also remember the end with a hot air balloon and Harris . This one also tries to introduce new characters to the gang one overweight dude and an older lady stands out in my mind and for some reason in the next movie the overweight guy would be a cop which makes no sense .
Teenage comes of age flick .	This story is of Carrie , a girl who is picked on to the ridicules extreme right at the beginning of the movie . The girls who pick on her are punished and one goes to the extreme to get revenge on the girl who had nothing really to do with her getting into trouble . This one is so much like a typical day at a high school that it is boring . Of course Carrie has a secret . . . her mom's psycho . So when the teacher tells her about the problems Carrie has at school , she proceeds to beat Carrie and tell her how evil she is . You just know she has a complex . Carrie also has special powers too . So a nice girl lets Carrie go to the prom with her boyfriend , the bad girl dumps something on Carrie at prom and all heck breaks loose . This film is just too mundane in some areas for it to be interesting . Nothing you see is really all that revolutionary here . . . teens have been this way to each other forever . The only thing interesting , or that is a new wrinkle is the powers and the really horrific prom , which for me just isn't enough to save the flick , but I can see why others like it . It just isn't for me .
Unimpressive sequel .	The sequel to the movie " Romancing the Stone " , was for me just not very good at all . Where as Stone was a well-paced , funny action movie in this one there are many periods of dullness . Danny DeVito is the only highlight to this one , as once again his character is great . The plot really kills this one though as it just isn't as fun as the originals . It involves some sort of ruler of a Middle Eastern country who wants Joan Wilder to write about him or something . She agrees and parts company with Jack Coltan . For some reason the ruler tries to kill Jack , by blowing up his boat , and this only sends Jack after them . Once in the country Joan begins to realize that the ruler is not as good a guy as he wants her to think . She runs into a guy called the Jewel of the Nile who I think is supposed to be the real ruler of the country . Meanwhile Jack and DeVito's character learn of the Jewel of the Nile from this people and mistakenly think it is some kind of real jewel worth money like in the first movie . Some good sequences here and there , but really nothing all that great . A good scene involving a jet and anther with Jack and Joan hung over a pit are pretty good and for me the highlights of this one . This movie just didn't appeal to me though like the first one . . . who knows ; maybe I prefer jungles to desert .
I do not really recall seeing a rebel .	This movie is not really anything like the title implies it is about . When I think rebel , I think bikers with leather jackets , or people who laugh in the face of the law . Here it is three losers looking for a break all for varying reasons . Well not all that varying as they all want money . One , is an unemployed actor who has a lovely wife and is apparently a bad actor . One , is a writer who is shopping around a book that is bad . The other guy is just trying to escape his mother's shadow or something . . . was not quite as sure about him . Well , a man who runs a rather crappy establishment has assembled these men to perform a robbery of an armored car . So that is about all there is to it . They take a train to Chicago , rob the armored car and get on the train and head on back home . Except , once on the train things begin to unravel as greed takes over one of the guys , another gets jumpy and then dead bodies begin to turn up . It is rather interesting to watch in places as it does move fairly quickly and the lead guy is likable enough as is his wife who stands by him . You also get to see the chief from Get Smart as the mastermind behind the heist . However , you also get to see a chase scene at the end that is to long and rather anti-climatic and the other guys in the heist are rather bad in how they are presented .
Starts out promisingly enough , but soon turns to a simple booby marathon .	This movie starts out with an execution of a practitioner of witchcraft and his mistress . His head is chopped off and buried separately of his body . . . sounds like " The Thing that wouldn't die " doesn't it ? Well it does play out a little like that , but once the body is reunited with the head , all the interesting and gruesome deaths are done and the movie moves very slowly . I mean the movie is only 88 minutes long and I kept thinking " When is it going to end " ? The characters in the movie are idiots for the most part and they pretty much deserve to die for being really stupid . The villain is also very bad as he is slow moving and really you wonder how he manages to do anything considering he is afraid of jewelery . The only thing to keep you watching after the head is reattached is the fact that there are so many boobs being flashed that you really begin to lose track . Still I want to see a horror movie , not a soft core porn flick and as a horror movie it is way to slow moving with way to many slow stretches to be even somewhat enjoyable . And don't read the back of the box as it made it out like there were flesh eating zombies attacking the town , there isn't . . . only a small scene where three or four zombies attack a house and are so easily repelled they are not a factor in the movie at all and their scene is rather pointless . So for the most part I say you should avoid this movie unless you come across it for really cheap .
Why did he want the hand in the first place ?	That is the question you will be asking yourself as you watch this sci-fi stinker . The movie obviously takes place before we did any extensive space travel as it involves a kind of force that takes possesion of people . As cool as that sounds the movie is rather dull . Lets just say a rocket blows up after an insane astronaut asks the people to blow it up . His hand ends up on the beach where this dumb guy sees it and wants to wrap it up and put it into storage or something . The hand trys to choke him , then partially tries to control him you know how it goes . Though he does have an attractive girlfriend . And as bad as most of the movies is you still hope the kid doesn't get killed in the end , even if he is a bit dense .
A video game where you kill people .	Edward plays a teen that gets this great game that allows you to kill someone . . . kind of a virtual reality game . The game doesn't look all that fun as it just has the player go to a bedroom and stabbing a guy . I would rather play a game where you go to the bedroom of a really hot chick and I would definitely not have murder on my mind , but to each his own . Well he wakes up from playing it , and tells his friend how cool it is . Well turns out someone in town has been killed just liked Edward did in the game . Could he be killing people and not knowing it ? All in all I didn't care for this one as it has been done before and for the most part I found it boring . Some demon creature talks to him to , persuading him to play and stuff . . . this one has a terrible ending too .
Cars just aren't scary to me .	Yes , when I think horror , cars are the last things I think of . This movie has a nerdy guy buying and restoring a car that is cursed . The car kind of rubs off on the guy and he becomes more popular and stuff , he also becomes obsessed with the car . We find out that not only does the car have a curse . . . it also can repair itself and chase after and hit people . That is about the gist of it . . . this movie is probably better than it should be thanks to John Carpenter's touches to it . He does set up a good mood and I like the way the car's radio always would start playing music to fit the moment . Other than that though , I just didn't enjoy the movie all that much . . . in fact I thought it was a bit boring . If you are a Carpenter or King fan though don't let my review scare you off , it may not have worked for me , but it might for you .
Granted it was the most original sequel , it still felt wrong .	Of the Rocky movies I have seen , this one is by far the worst . Never saw Rocky Balboa so I do not know how that one stacks up to the others . One of the many problems of this movie is its feel , it does not feel like a theatrical movie . It feels like a direct to video or maybe a television movie rather than a movie made for the theaters . I also did not like the way poor Apollo is now just an afterthought getting only one mention in the entire movie . It makes the fight against Drago just the setup for the brain trauma that Rocky suffers in this film that causes him to be unable to fight . This film also has the annoying guy doing the Don King impersonation that gets very irritating after awhile . So the story , Rocky loses all money and is forced back in to his old neighborhood where he meets and up and coming boxer named Tommy Gunn ( played poorly by Tommy Morrison ) who wishes Rocky to train him and gets mad when Rocky gets to much attention . Why he did not see that coming is beyond me . The movie does not really feature all that much ring boxing and the fight at the end is rather bad and not at all entertaining and the Mickey flashbacks are a bit creepy . Basically , a movie that would have been better off not being made .
What a great ad campaign can do .	This movie made a nice sum of 35 million at the box office , yet many consider it a poor movie at best . So how did it make this much money ? With a good ad campaign , that's how . This movie was the first small creature attack movie to come out after the very successful Gremlins the previous year . Critters , which most consider the better film , came out a year later and made a lot less than this one . Then there was the famous scene of the creature coming out of the toilet . It made it look like a Gremlin type movie . . . funny with a bit of charm to it . It fooled my parents and we saw this dog in the theater when I was ten . We knew it wasn't quite what it was advertised as though as soon as it started as it has a scene where a guy rips out a woman's heart . It isn't all bad though as there are some scenes here and there that are good , but overall this one is just bad as it is not just about little creatures , but a bunch of other satanic stuff as well as this guy throws a party and does rituals and accidentally raises this one evil guy . Sounds better than it is though as there are no stars in this one and none of the actors in this one can act . You do though get to see the little person who played ET .
The best thing I can say about this movie is at least the guy playing Hercules looked the part .	Yes , the lead here looks like Hercules and there are a lot of ladies prancing around in skimpy costumes , but that does not a good movie make . The story is a jumbled mess that really does not flow well , the actors are not the best of caliber , and of course it doesn't help that this Hercules movie does not have all that much action in it . In fact , most of the movie seemingly has Hercules sitting around on a chair and making it with a strange looking gal . Meanwhile , there is a war about to break out between two brothers I think , but can not be 100 % positive . There is also a rather pointless scene where Hercules must fight some guy who always gets back up and laughs annoyingly . Herc has his companions and his wife to worry about as well , but for the most part you are going to want to drink those waters of forgetfulness that send the movie to the very long pointless subplot of Herc in the clutches of the very bizarre island girl and her many serving girls . All in all just not enough of a plot or action to get anyone's interest up .
Just Dredd-Ful ( I know this has probably been done already )	I didn't really expect much when I went to see this one and boy I wasn't disappointed . The problem here is that Rob Schneider is probably the best part of the whole film as the comic relief . . . so you know it can't be to good . Diane Lane is a complete waste of time in this piece , but of course nearly every action movie made since 1990 has to have the great super female who can fight every bit as well as the men . And then there is Stallone , who is speaking less clearly with every movie that he makes . The plot seems more fit for a sequel as we are only briefly introduced to Dredd and learn what he is as he is framed rather quickly . There is one scene in the desert wasteland that is ok , but other than that this film is just bad . Sure some of the effects are pretty good , but effects alone just don't make a movie worth watching in the end .
You basically saw the funny stuff in the commercials .	Usually , you will have one are two funny scenes that are totally unexpected in a comedy that you don't even see a hint of in the commercial . For this movie if you seen the barrage of previews for this commercial , then you have seen all the funniest scenes period . By the time I saw this at the theater the scenes were very stale as they repeated the commercials so much it was pathetic . This one has a bit more of the family in it , which was the highlight of the first one . To bad they are not as funny in larger doses . The plot has Sherman somehow extracting the part of him that is Buddy Love . This form somehow comes to life on its own and starts wrecking havoc . This was such an awful plot device you wonder why it is even there . Why have Buddy Love return , is it just to show the audience that Eddie Murphy is actually in shape or what ? This movie also has to many scenes where it takes itself to seriously and gets to sappy . What is the matter with just having a comedy without the tender moments ? Tender moments are not what I go to a comedy to see most of the time and this is a movie I was expecting none . If you saw the many advertisements of this one , don't bother . . . you have seen all the funniest parts . If you haven't seen much on it , you may want to give it a go .
Kids shot into space thanks to the homicidal Jinx .	Yes , this movie has kids going to space camp and it starts out okay enough as you have the kids meeting one another and learning the ropes . Then they introduce Jinx , a robot that could not possibly exist in 1986 as they do not have anything with that kind of artificial intelligence now . Kid becomes buddy with robot and robot repays the kid's kindness by shooting him and a group of other kids in this camp into outer space with a very limited oxygen supply and radios that do not have the signal to reach into space . This camp is also not very fun as these kids are put to real training and the instructors get all over them for failing missions or not doing the right things . Give it a rest , they are there for fun , not to become astronauts just yet , just give them the experience of space flight not a military like camp . However , you do get to see Joaquin Phoenix in a fairly early role . So in the end a movie that tries to be realistic in some areas , but with the introduction of Jinx and other factors you might as well had the kids battle space aliens on top of everything else that was happening in the movie as that would have made the movie a bit more enjoyable at least for me . Probably for a few others as well , who else would like to see Kate Capshaw's face ripped apart by some strange super alien creature .
Well the plot summary made it sound like it would be good .	I thought this movie would be the best film of the new Afterdark releases , however , upon watching it I am hoping that is not the case . It had promise and for a second there I thought it would be good , but it just has way to many flaws . I will get to them later , but first the plot . Something is unearthed in a cave and goes on the rampage , a sheriff with a past is on the case . A truck isolates the town leaving four strangers in town stranded , monster begins rampage . An Indian girl and this other guy seem to know a way to stop it and there is some cat and mouse as the survivors and their decreasing numbers hide here and there . So what are its flaws ? First , the whole sheriff with a past thing . It is a female sheriff and she had an incident that was so troubling to her that she has been drinking and having problems for a year . A plot straight out of a lifetime channel movie plot . Do not get me wrong and I am not disparaging the channel , but those types of plot points do not belong in horror movie of this type . Also , when it is revealed what she did you will wonder how the heck she has stayed sheriff for a year . It did seem to be because of incompetence on her part and I don't see how anyone could have let her be sheriff after that . She is also way to pretty for someone who has been drinking for a year and living under the sun . Most would have developed wrinkles and would have aged considerably , however she is still quite modelesque . Then there are the four strangers in town , never before has there been four more pointless and underdeveloped characters to enter a movie . You know not their motivations , or anything . The girl bit by the rattler , her friend , the city dude , and the broken down hitchhiker . Heck , you learn more about the trucker whose rig crashes five minutes into the movie than you do any of the four strangers . However , all is not bad as there are a couple of good kills . . . the dude in the car at the end and the girl in the café . The one rancher is actually a good character , to bad he is not in the movie much and the monster is okay too , although it is just a cheap version of the alien and its origin is a bit far fetched .
Wow . . . that sandstorm sequence was rather long wasn't it ?	Another in the Italian Hercule movies this time with another actor playing Herc and once again they at least get the casting right as he has the looks for the part . This one has a better plot than that of Hercules Unchained as it has Hercules trying to help this people who are living in a place where there children must be sacrificed to the creatures that live in the mountain of death . Why they need to sacrifice the kids and for what purpose is not really known . . . I don't think they are eating them or anything . Well Hercules comes to help , but the queen of this kingdom kind of works for the moon people so she tries her best to kill Herc every step of the way . The movie is not very good , but it does go at a rather fast pace , until one point near the end of the movie where it totally bogs down . You will feel you are watching the sandstorm sequence forever . . . it does not feel like it is going to end and you will swear the queen didn't take that long to get through it . Finally , Herc squares off against the moon people and quite frankly it is very anti-climatic .
Well a better Randy Quaid movie than " Martian's Go Home " .	This movie is a parody type movie . . . though there is not a particular movie being spoofed here . More along the lines of a " Top Secret " as this movie has its own plot and stands on its own . And for that I commend it . I just did not find it all that funny . Sure I liked a couple of the jokes like the part where the music is playing and Randy's character tells them to shut the music off . The story basically has this guy who is some sort of star traveling along the countryside and running into a freak show . Well he soon becomes the freak show's main attraction as the owner of said show makes his freaks with a bizarre device . Of course , before this we have a scene where the star is being interviewed by Brooke Shields in a talk show type setting . So basically the movie is sort of a recount of what happened . So we have a bunch of freaks to get to know as well as the star's traveling companions become Siamese twins , there is a worm guy , a strange sock puppet guy and you even get to see Mr . T as a bizarre woman . Though the saddest tale is that of the one tool that became another ( have to admit , that was pretty funny ) . Still , for the most part I just did not enjoy the movie , however , there are worse ways to spend one's time .
This one plays more like a Muppets movie .	This movie was really bad . The only saving graces are Bill Murray and Larry Bird's all to brief appearances . We have definitely found something Jordan can't do and that is act . That is kind of bad considering he is playing himself in this one . Though most of his costars weren't there , so it might have been difficult . At least he stopped after this one unlike Shaq who made four or five pictures . . . Thank God Phil Jackson came along and refocused him . As for the plot being like a Muppets movie it is . A few appearances here and there from a surprise celebrity , the whole working with live actors . It just did not seem to be a Looney tunes movie . Though they stopped being Looney a long time ago . I liked Daffy Duck when he was , well , daffy . . . he has been smart aleck duck for a while now . It just doesn't feel right . All the Looney Tunes on one team , some being life long enemies . . . and what is the point of introducing the bad guy voiced by I think Danny DeVito . The Martian has always been trying to take over the world , why not just let it be him . Also , what is up with the girl bunny ? Why introduce a new character ? I guess we just had to be politically correct . Well this one may be good for the kiddies , but most of us are going to recognize it for what it is . . . one long commercial . I saw a clip from the next Looney Tunes movie and it is even more Muppet looking than this one
This one wasn't what I was expecting .	I wanted to see the first Mortal Kombat at the theaters , but never was able to . I saw it later on pay-per-view and wished I had seen it at the theater ( not that it was a masterpiece , but it was cool ) . So I had to go to the sequel and boy was I disappointed . All the coolness of the original is gone and what we have is one long commercial for the game . . . it manages to squeeze in all the Kombat characters from 2 and 3 videogames . If this weren't bad enough all the characters that have returned are played by different people except Liu Kane and Katanna and they weren't my favorite from the first one . . . why did they have the focus on the character that people at the arcades seemed to like the least ? The plot is horrible and the whole movie seems made for kids which is stupid cause all the fatalities and stuff in the game were more for older players . There are a couple of good fight scenes at the beginning of the movie , but nothing that comes close to those of the first one . And as the movie goes along the fight scenes get worse not better .
Starts with a bang , but then they get to the city of gold .	Why they made this sequel is anyone's guess , the first one was not exactly a huge hit or anything . By today's standards it may have warranted a direct to DVD sequel , but an actual movie release would have been out of the question . Quite frankly this movie should have been out of the question . Or at least maybe they could have worked on it a bit more before its release as it definitely has a rushed feel to it . The story has Alan Quartermane and his new wife ( both of which played by the same actors ) going in search of Alan's brother who had set out looking for the lost city of gold . Well they go in pursuit and go through some jungle adventures and some traps and the movie has the same fast pace as the first movie . It looks like it is going to be a cheap action movie , but one packed with enough thrills to keep one entertained , and then they make it to the city of gold and the movie just stops being entertaining . The story and everything about the movie bogs down in the city of gold as does the whole Richard Chamberline as Alan Quartermane series . Though one has to wonder how did such obviously low budget movies get their hands on some rather respectable actors and actresses . Granted , Stone is a rather newcomer at this point , but Chamberline and James Earl Jones are not .
I hope this movie did not win the Emmy for what those monsters looked like .	The story had promise , the story I read in a book was good and suspenseful . However , the movie adaptation was just not good at all . What killed the movie you ask ? Two main things , the very over the top acting was one thing . There are some rather good actors in this cast , but everyone is just so over the top that they seem like caricatures or something . The two best examples of this are Bronson Pinchot's character Toomey and that blind girl . I liked Pinchot in Perfect Strangers , but here he is very annoying as he plays his character with a bit to much gusto . The girl is even more annoying as she is acting so stiffly and like a grownup they might as well given the part to an adult . Then comes the second thing , if all the bad acting was not enough to make you change the channel here comes the Langoliers , their appearance is just utterly stupid . Reading the book now all I can picture are those stupid looking " monsters " , it kind of ruins it . The story has a plane full of passengers on a trip east . When some of the passengers go to sleep and wake up they find that most of the other people on the plane including the pilots are gone . What has happened to them ? Luckily one of the sleeping passengers is a pilot himself and he is able to land in an airport where the survivors find a world that does not seem quite right . Like I said the story was good , just needed perhaps better direction and perhaps a theatrical release and budget . Granted it would have to be cut down , but they could make this an hour and fifty minute movie and still keep the key elements in the book . You do not have to go through every little subplot a book contains . You just keep the basics and you make a much better film .
Oh , baby shake that booty !	This film would have been totally awful if not for the dance sequences ( not that they are good dancers , but they look pretty good doing it ) . The plot at the beginning of this is apparently not important to the viewers of this movie . This guy goes into a diner called " eat " to rob the place , but then decides to take the girl working there to California . You think he is the star and hero of the movie , but then the movie throws a curve and this hitchhiker becomes the hero . There are a bunch of random scenes that have no importance and the editing is so bad at one point even I notice it ( The hitchhiker and the girl are talking and the other guy just pops into the scene drinking his beer ) . The last half of the movie has some semblance of a plot involving the girls dancing career and the guy you thought was the hero selling drugs . You wonder if Critter ( that is the hitchhiker ) can save the day . Not really , but I thought I would make it sound suspenseful . Oh , and if you watch it and you can figure it out could you please tell me how that one guy got out of the prison ?
It putters , then stutters , and then dies .	Congrats " The Village " , you have replaced " The Chronicles of Riddick " as the lowpoint so far of the 2004 movies I have seen . The sad part is I sort of liked that one , this one , however , I did not enjoy much at all . In fact , I have now finally seen a movie that was worse than last years " 28 Days Later " , in fact after seeing this one I feel bad about being as hard on that movie as I was . I give this movie a three only because at least it has good performances . . . still those performances cannot make up for the fact the plot was awful , it was dreadfully boring , and the ending was very predictable . . . I think I got it five minutes in when I saw their community resembled an amish village , and I was 100 % sure once the origin of the creatures is revealed . The movie is totally devoid of humor , it takes itself seriously to a fault , and quite frankly it would not scare a child of three or four years old . The only reason it is so highly ranked here at imdb is that M . Night directed it so people feel they have to like it , but he isn't a god and so I say this movie is just a mistake by him . Why he can not make a movie without the twist ending is beyond me . Next time he should just make a straight horror movie with no twists at the end and that would probably surprise people more than this one did . I mean if you did not see this one coming you probably have problems concentrating , but then who could blame you ? This movie is very tedious and if you can manage to keep awake through the whole thing you will say " so that is it ? " You would have been better off sleeping . There are also more holes left unfilled than can be found in a piece of swiss cheese . It also irked me that Phoenix is basically not even in the second half of this film . All in all a grave disappointment , a movie that looks like a made for television movie presented by the Lifetime channel . If this scares you seek medical help .
Was it possible to win this game ?	This game brought about many nightmares and hours of play as a child trying desperately to win what I still have no clue on how to win . I hear some people say they won it and you basically see the scene right at the beginning in reverse . You are basically Indy , you pick up the whip right at the beginning and you can choose to fight wave after wave of snakes with said whip or you can go to the market and maybe by a grenade or parachute or something . You can even find a revolver in a garbage can . You can use said grenade to blow a hole in the screen with the snakes and go through a level with no dangers and some sort of clock to a room that is apparently cliffs , a strange marsh with the strangest looking spider ever , to a room where you get trapped in boxes . You have a treasure room beyond the room with the boxes . You have a strange land below the cliffs where a man in black roams , the black market , a strange area with a mound of dirt that just takes you back to the cliffs , the map room that shows nothing even when you have the staff of ra , the black market which has more snakes and how any of this ties in together is beyond me .
Killer worms that really hate electricity .	This is one of the few movies I have seen from beginning to end and then seeing it on MST 3000 . Watching it this way first allowed me to see some of the more gruesome parts the show edited . As it stands I don't rate this a one , I give it a three . The problem with this movie is not the worms per se , which apparently go on the attack because a power line is down ( that happens all the time , and I have yet to see killer worms ) it is the thoroughly unlikeable characters . This is set in the south so everyone revs up the southern accent to intolerable levels ( I live here and I have yet to hear anyone sound that southern ) then there is Mic who is from New York . Why the heck is he in Georgia you ask ? He is antiquing . And they want you to believe he would be interested in the girl . Oh and don't get me started on the sheriff . The stereotypical sheriff of the south who is more interested in sex than solving crimes . Actually the most likable character I thought was Roger . Sure he becomes crazy , but he was generally a nice fellow till Mic kept advancing on the girl . Oh , and the character of Mr . Beardsly is also very impressive in his brief stint on the film . So should you watch ? Go ahead , it isn't totally bad , and there are some pretty gross scenes on the straight version .
Master's of the Universe 2 ?	Well that is interesting that this was supposed to be a sequel to that movie , though it most definitely does not play out like the famous cartoon at all . Looks like they had to have rewritten the script because this movie quite frankly seems to be a little dark to be a follow up to that movie . That and the fact it goes in a total different direction . What we get is a rather bad Jean Claude Van Dame movie with the same old stuff you would expect with his movies , and a few differing things . Such as the future setting , the bolt guns , and the plot which has some originality in it . Still though , in the end it boils down to a fight between Van Dame and the bad guy , in the rain . You can expect lots of kick boxing action , and the cyborg you ask ? Almost a needless part of the plot as she is a rather weak cyborg with no fighting skills or anything that would even indicate she is any different than a human . The only special about her is that she has a cure to some disease . So you may want to check this little movie out as I do believe it was a theatrically released movie , just don't expect much . Another funny part about this movie is that they give the main villain a handicap . . . you are not supposed to give the villain a handicap that would make the good guy look like a wimp when he wins .
Hopefully , this doc doesn't make house calls .	Here is another Eddie Murphy comedy that if you saw the trailers for it , you have seen all the best parts . This is also a movie that is more marketed to children than adults and that is another problem with it . It bogs down with a lot of sentimental rubbish as well . . . I don't know if it is just me , but I want to laugh when I go see a comedy , not have a message jammed down my throat . Though this one is probably good for families , the parents should be warned that they are in for a good joke here or there , but the rest of the time it is a bit stupid . Norm MacDonald is rather good as the voice of the dog and Chris Rock is recognizable as well , as for the rest of the voices who is to say who they are , no other actors with really distinct voices seem to be used . Some of the jokes may be a bit inappropriate for children , but they most likely will go over the child's head . For the most part this movie is a slow mover that just isn't all that funny for most adults . Seems like Eddie though is making a career off of this type of movie so more power to him .
Disregard the plot line given here , this is not really much of a zombie flick .	First of all this movie is not really Zombie 5 as someone pointed out Zombie 4 After Death came out a year later . Rather , both movies are just being repackaged and given new names simply to make some connection to Fulcio's Zombi 2 . The only thing they have in common is that the dead do rise . I liked After Death a little , I thought it was a nice little zombie flick , nothing super great , but worth a look . This one , however , was really kind of tedious . Started promisingly enough with a man going on a killing spree after he finds his wife in bed with another man , but then it almost turns into a teen flick as we are introduced to the rest of the cast . The music even makes it seem like a teen comedy . Oh , and though it really is not clear at all there has been a significant number of years that has passed since the killings . Well we meet our young group of bird watchers and one annoying bus driver and a rather unremarkable reporter and all you can think is I hope they all die in extremely horrible ways . Not a good way to establish your characters in a horror movie is it ? I mean when they aren't arguing over stupid stuff they are mumbling their lines so badly they sound like the parents in a Charlie Brown cartoon . Well they set off to find a bird which has not been seen in 20 or so years , and they run across a blind bird watcher . You'll know who he is and you will know what one of the gang of teens is right away so there is no real surprise at the revelation at the end . Well after they bother the blind guy they proceed to go bird watching get lost in the woods and find a house . They immediately set up camp here , despite the fact there vehicle is like just over the hill and if they would have continued searching for another 5 minutes they could have gotten out without anything happening . But hey , its a horror movie . Well finally some stuff starts to happen as people begin to die while their friends just stand there watching the person die . Of course they don't offer to help just standing there like idiots and then reacting well after the fact when it is far to late . My favorite being the guy who gets caught in a generator gear and gets ground up while this moron stands there not offering to help , then after the guy has had it he runs up stairs and says " they got him " . I had to say , no they didn't the jerk got caught and you kind of let him die . As for the zombies they aren't in this movie much and they don't make much of an impression . The plot is practically nonexistent as there is no explanation for why any of it is happening besides the blind man's explanation at the end . Then you expect a rather grisly conclusion , but it never materializes and it just ends . Not a real zombie movie I say the makers were trying to make a movie more in the vain of " The Beyond " . Of course that movie looks better , sounds better , and has better kills so there is no comparison there . I don't know maybe this was two movies that got bumped together . One film crew was making a horror movie , the other a teen romance , but they ran into each other and the teen romance people thought , a horror movie cool . That would explain the strange changes in the music in the first thirty minutes or so .
Friday the 13th clone .	This movie is about a killer in a summer camp , so yes this is a bit of a clone of Friday the 13th . This movie is also not very good , if you like it fine , but it just is not my thing . For one I did not find the ending all that shocking as I saw it coming even as a kid ( let's face it , the movie shows you clearly who survived the crash ) . This movie is the typical slasher for the most part , with a person being killed here and there . If you like slashers it would probably be worth checking out . As for me , I just can not believe how high the ranking of this is here . This site is notorious for being hard on horror films yet this one has a somewhat good score . I don't know , to me it just wasn't anything all that special , even if you couldn't figure out the ending and it was a surprise , there was more to the movie than that . This one also tries to be funny here and there and it fails , I absolutely hated the mother's performance and she isn't even in the movie much . I am betting the sequels were not much better . So check it out if you are a slasher fan you may enjoy it . I just didn't .
Just not that good compared to other " a girls affair " titles .	Yes , I do like porn and I really like lesbian or solo female this being the former . I just enjoy females and watching do naughty stuff to themselves or other women . I like straight okay , however I usually fast forward through bj scenes . Never liked those , except in one movie called " Little Girls Blue " . For some reason there those scenes were better as they focused on the girl exclusively while it was being done and the male was just about faceless . On to this movie , a major disappointment . Why ? Other than one cute girl in one scene most of the women in this flick appeared to be on the downside of their adult film careers . That and I do not care for super large unnatural looking breasts which we have here aplenty . I like boob jobs okay , but not when they become super sized monstrosities . The women for the most part do look older too , and other than the one scene featuring one somewhat cute fresh looking girl whose boobs were not as big as the others most of the sex scenes left me in a rather sad state of non arousal which is not what I am looking for in an adult film . I got this one on a tape with three other girl's affair movies and the other three were rather good with one being really good with lots of cute girls . This one was by far the weakest of the bunch I saw .
It needs more even for a television movie .	This horror movie is really weak . . . that is if this is the correct movie I am commenting on . Nothing really terrible goes on as a family adopts a cute little German Shepard pup . I had a German Shepard and it is a really good dog . I did not get the idea to get one from this movie though , but rather from the comedy " K-9 " . That is another story all together though . This movie really doesn't have much horror at all as the most horrific scene is at the end and it looks really cheesy . Also , we see a guy almost put his hand into a lawn mower . That is about it . The father suspects something though , as his family seems to be getting rather strange , somewhere he finds out if you hold a mirror to them while they are sleeping you can see if they are possessed . All in all a really weak horror movie even by television standards . . . television movies that do work are out there as " This House Possessed " is pretty good and there is another haunted house movie about a woman and these strange creatures that is also rather good . This one is really rather dull .
A whole lotta nothing going on .	This movie reels you in right from its opening scene where a girl is sucked into some bushes . Then you watch expecting something else creepy like that first scene , but do you get it ? The answer to that my friends is a resounding ' No ' ! This is a very dull movie , and if there is one thing I can't stand a horror movie to be it is for it to be dull . A bunch of dream sequences and this and that and then an event happens the next day where there is a car wreck and then the payoff . The main problem is I do believe this premise was stretched out a bit too much . This might have been a rather good short story , but there was just not enough stuff here for an hour and a half movie .
STOP ! ! !	This movie is a sequel to Creature from the Black Lagoon . The creature basically gets captured and taken to Florida and stuck in an aquarium . Scientist study , him and then he gets loose . That is basically all there is to it . John Agar is the scientist and he is as wooden as ever . The gal in this one is pretty cute though and the monster looks all right especially considering it is the 50's . The monster doesn't look to threatening in a pool though so the fact it is in an aquarium really takes away from the movie . At the end the monster kidnaps the girl and Agar has to find her . I still don't think though that you can use a shocking pole underwater without getting electrocuted yourself and I don't think that some creature is going to care about a globe on a stick . And why bring a creature into basically a marine land type setting where if it escapes it can do the most damage . And where did these guys buy the chain to hold the creature cause it doesn't hold up well . On the plus side you get to see Clint Eastwood make a brief appearance .
They said " if you like Dawn of the Dead , you will love this " . They were wrong .	I had heard all the hype and read the reviews . Everyone said this was a good movie . . . a " Dawn of the Dead " type movie . This movie doesn't even come close . First of all , it is not a zombie movie at all . The people seem to have rabies and are called the infected . Sure they may attack humans , but that does not make them the undead . The undead are usually a lot tougher to kill . This one starts out promising enough with a guy waking up in a hospital naked ( could have done without the full nudity ) and everything in the city is deserted . The movie makers did a great job of making the city look empty . The guy goes into a church and encounters one of the rabid infected people and makes a run for it . He runs into two survivors and there are some good scenes here including the only gory death in the movie when a gal has to kill her friend . Then the movie becomes very dull and the infected are seen almost not at all . I think the " Hulk " had more screen time than the so-called zombies in this movie . The two remaining members end up finding more survivors . A father and his daughter and this dude with a bat who for some reason is only shown once and never seen again . The group has this peppy conversation on how they need each other and decide to go on a road trip to a place they heard about on the radio . I was waiting for them to start singing " There's got to be a morning after " . They embark on their road trip and it is a three-day trip . During the trip they have a rather good stop in the tunnel , one of the last good scenes in the movie where they encounter the infected . The rest of their road trip is nice and bland . . . they stay out in the open and no " zombies " bother them . The " zombies " apparently are drawn only to candles and not to bonfires . The heroes get to the army base and of course the army has ulterior motives that have nothing to do with the " zombies " and the rest of the movie just sucks . I am still waiting for the violent , gory finale I was promised by a reviewer . I really have to wonder if those who compared this to " Dawn of the Dead ' have actually seen Dawn ? Sure Romero used a story too , but he had lots more action and gore and horror . He never forgot that the main reason we went to his movies was to see zombies .
How did this movie do so well ?	I am guessing the reason this movie did so well at the box office is of course Eddie Murphy . I think this was his first movie since " Beverly Hills Cop " so at the time he was hot . Considering that one made over two hundred million and it was R and this one made about 80 million and it was pg does say it was not all that popular . I have never been a big Eddie Murphy fan , so that is probably another reason I didn't care for it much at all . This one has Eddie as some sort of finder of lost kids . He must find the golden child or the world is in terrible peril . The plot is very bad , but as bad as it is it does not compare to the special effects . I had seen better stuff done in the 70's than some of the stuff this one offers , Ray Harryhausen did better stuff . Still the main reason you see a movie like this is because of Eddie , unfortunately he is not very funny in this one at all and it just seems stupid to put him in the " Raiders of the Lost Ark " type scenes . I guess they were hoping for a fish out of water effect , but to me it just did not work .
I did like it better than the first one .	That is not exactly a great feat . I did not care for the first one much at all , and I did not like this one all that much either . I did , however , like it more than part one . As stupid and gross as it was I did snicker at a few of the jokes so it gets a couple of points for that . This one plays more like an " Airplane " or " Naked Gun " , so that helped it with me a bit as well . I liked how they opened by recapping the first one and then basically telling you it had nothing to do with this one . There was a part where they had this squirrel investigating something and talking in a chipmunk voice . There were a couple of other good jokes I liked as well , like the guy that could not get a girl yet he looked like the type of guy girls chase after . All in all though most of the jokes were stupid and fell flat and the movie just tried to gross you out for the sake of grossing you out . Like when the two people are making out and melting at the same time . Still though , was better than part one , but it wasn't good enough to make me want to see part three .
Other than seeing a young Jack Nicholson and an old Karloff this one isn't really worth seeing .	You get to see Nicholson and Karloff , that makes it somewhat watchable , but the muddled story and the lack of anything really exciting happening makes this movie a bit of a bore . Well one person is killed in a rather gruesome way , but other than that nothing much happens . This one has Nicholson as a soldier who is seperated from the rest of his troops . He meets a girl who seemingly wants to lead him to his death . He eventually stumbles upon an old castle and inside is a bit of a crazy old count . Nothing really shocking about it as it is a bit more mystery than horror . The mystery I am afraid is a bit to confusing and rather pointless to be very good . The end revelation is very stupid as it does not seem to add up at all . Still though you do get to see an old actor on his way down and a new actor ( at that time anyway ) on his way up .
The day this audience member was bored .	Let me start off by simply stating that if you have seen the trailers for this movie you have basically seen all the special effects shots this film has to offer . There is really no surprises to be found within the movie other than a rather strange twist involving the robot . The only thing you get to see that is not really shown in the trailers is the fact there is an annoying kid throughout this movie that really takes this film down a notch . As for the plot , it reminds me of an alien fugitive movie more than an alien invasion movie . The centerpiece of the movie , the robot Gort , is just about a no show which is a pity seeing as how his first appearance is the highlight of this film . It looks good and intimidating , and it only has a couple of scenes to show what it can do . Most of the movie is an alien visitor wishing to speak with the world leaders , but all us Americans want to do is fight a force that is clearly capable of wiping us out rather easily . Alien befriends mother and awful stepson to some extent and ponders whether to destroy us all or not . Granted there is more to it than that , but for the most part it is a talky , preachy and rather dull science fiction movie . Keanu Reeves makes the movie somewhat tolerable , however , most of the cast is not that good and the less said about the stepson's performance the better . . . hell , if that is what all Earth children are like then go ahead destroy us all ! A couple of special effects scenes are also impressive , but like I said nothing you have not seen if you have seen the trailers . I did like the swarm thing at the end though and thought that would have made a rather good movie by itself .
The fight was fixed ! ! ! !	I am not wild about this movie , mainly because of the outcome here in the US . To me King Kong should not have stood a chance against Godzilla , but you know how it goes . In Japan there was one winner , and here there was another . Other things I don't like about this movie are the totally stupid ways they invent weaknesses for Godzilla . Since when is a creature that was spawned from radioactivity weakened by electricity ? It makes no sense ! And why would that same lighting that so hurts Godzilla power up King Kong a mammal who should be as susceptible to shock as any other monkey ? It makes no sense ! Any why , oh why does Godzilla's radioactive fire breath not set a giant monkey on fire rather than just a bit of smoke ? Once again it makes no sense ! On the plus side their first encounter goes exactly as it should , with Godzilla making the monkey turn tail and run . Other than that though , these two should not have been matched up . . . for one they had to increase King Kong's size so it wasn't even the one we have in the US anyway , so why tilt the fight to his favor in the US ? Though from what I have read now it seems there is not a cut of this movie where Godzilla wins . . . still should have , but apparently no . I read it in a Godzilla book that there was an alternate ending so whoever wrote that really needed to do more research .
Well it had one hell of a finish . . .	Most of the movie is sadly rather underdone . Seems they had a somewhat interesting concept and just rushed it to the finish line . I am guessing they thought of the ending first and wrote a bunch of filler to get to said ending . So what do we get for most of the film ? A rather good cast doing nothing more than going out to the abandoned town and getting themselves kidnapped by the evil cult led by Ernest Borgainine in a rather good over the top performance . You know a movie is in trouble when it seems they are rushing things so no startling revelations here , only lets rush to the cool ending . Which is the highlight of the film , a rain that comes down and washes the cult members away , rather good effects , especially for the time , but this does not make up for the rest of the film . Which leads to a question I have , why are movies about Satan and his cults usually so bloody boring or bad for the most part ? You would think these movies would be some of the most gory and scary the horror genre had to offer , but usually it falls flat . Still if you do watch the movie look out for the many stars who apparently had nothing else better to do .
Almost painful to watch at times .	Other than this movie featuring Ernest from all those wacky commercials , this movie just plays out as your basic summer camp movie . Why is it so bad , because you have Ernest as the main character , plus very annoying children , and a silly subplot involving some company trying to take over the camp . I just do not think the Ernest character should be center stage for a movie . The short lived television show was the only thing this character needed as it featured other characters and such to draw some of the focus away from Ernest himself . Lets face it , the character got his start in commercials as a rather annoying individual and it was funny to see him torment Vern , but more funny to see Vern get back at Ernest for bothering him in the first place . The movie here would feature a couple of the characters from the television show as cooks and they provide some comedy and Ernest has his moments . However , most of the movie is rather groan inducing and to top it off it gets overly sentimental at times as well . I can not really recommend this movie unless perhaps you have seen his other movies and liked them . Granted if you have seen them I am sure you saw this his first movie .
Think of the game Kung Fu , but not as fun .	Of all the games released in this era of games my dad bought this one . I never asked for it , I was not really that into Karate Kid , but for some reason he picked this one when stuff like Punch Out , Kid Icarus and numerous other games could have been purchased . What do we get in this game you ask ? Basically , the game Kung Fu only going to the right with a couple of Karate Kid mini games thrown in for no reason , granted they are the best part of the game . The game seems to be sort of based on the second film . Daniel walks the streets fighting a lot of thugs so no I guess that really is not in the film . Though you do have the hurricane level that was in the movie and it is most annoying in the game as this game like most games in this time features the death pit . You know the pit that if you fall in it your dead , it can be filled with water and your still dead and the hurricane level constantly pushed you back so you had a lot of cheap deaths in that particular level . It all culminates in the final battle that would be easy except for the girl who just has to keep edging closer to the water till she falls in . . . she consequently can not swim either . The mini games are somewhat fun though as you have catch flies with chopsticks , break the ice , and dodge the thingie .
Kind of strange movie with to many over the top characters .	This movie features a world where the sun beats down on the earth and causes serious burns right away as the ozone is gone . This is done very well of a movie of this type as it does resemble a b movie . The movie also features many unique crazy effects as a house is turned into a very dangerous rain forest type environment as a scientist is trying to find a way to make durable plants and such to stand up to the super harsh climate . He has a son and wife and they have to move around because someone does not approve of the experiments . Well at the new house they arrive at there is an accident right away and right away the house starts to get overrun by the various fungus and plants that the scientist is developing . Meanwhile , the son is having trouble adjusting to school as the school he is attending has the most extreme bullies ever as they not only beat you up if you talk to one of them's girl they stake you in the blistering sun which is why this movie fails , the characters are so unbelievable . The father , the mother and the coach and all the bullies are way to over the top and ruin what could have been an okay movie . Though granted it would have been nothing great considering the severe lack of things to do with a house full of bizarre plant life .
I liked the book better .	I know many of you are saying , " Book , what book ? " . There was a book , however , it was a book based on the screenplay and was written by Dean Koontz under another name . So basically , a book written simply to cash in on the release of a movie . This case Tobe Hooper's " The Funhouse " . I read the book before I saw the movie , I didn't even know there was a movie until then and I thought it might be a rather good movie . Unfortunately , Koontz did a bit to well in fleshing out characters and adding plot twists and his book had a little to much depth . Because the actually movie was rather slow moving , not that many people to kill , and the characters were cardboard cutouts found in any horror movie released at the time . So suffice to say I was disappointed , especially how the movie was so empty of any of the really interesting stuff included in the book . So what do we get , some kids stuck in a fun house being stalked by a deformed killer . Very " Friday the 13th " or any number of horror movies at the time .
Captain America falls flat .	I am like the other reviewer who saw the poster of this in a theater , oddly enough I think I was there to see Batman Returns . The poster was a picture of his shield and I said that might be cool , but alas this movie would never make it to the big screen . The problem is they apparently ran out of money after the first scene . Captain America goes after the Red Skull beating up Nazi soldiers then totally gets beaten up by the skull that doesn't look like a skull , but it is still creepy . Cap gets tied to a rocket which is launched at the White House then he diverts it to Alaska . After this the budget runs out and the middle is just the guy without his costume running around in modern America . The skull is still around and he now looks like a guy with a bad sunburn and he is trying to kidnap the Pres . There is a little action at the end , but it is not as good as the promising beginning . Cap does get to beat up the skull at the end too , but the guy has to be pretty old at this point so it isn't really a fair fight . The costume is pretty good and the guy looks like Captain America , but he is kinda whiney . This film isn't very good , but a worse Marvel movie is The Punisher , they couldn't even get the costume right in that one .
Just use your imagination and don't over think it . . . and it is still bad .	I have not seen this one in quite some time , but it is about a new kid in town and his pet robot . A robot designed to grab people by the crotch and squeeze . Already , you see the flaws ; he apparently designed this robot to have a bit of a violent streak in him . Young new boy makes a new friend a girl who has an abusive father . You can see where this is going . The old lady from " The Goonies " and " Throw Momma from the Train " blows the heck out of the robot and the girl is killed by her abusive father . Young boy somehow deduces that if you put the robot's computer chip in the young girl she will come back and she does . Unfortunately , she now seemingly has the robot's personality and that isn't too good . All the deaths you see coming , though the one with the basketball is rather good , in fact the highlight of this overly predictable movie . The only thing that is not predictable is the end which makes no sense . Well you know what happens , I am just saying by that time the kid should have left well enough alone . It is also a rather impossible phenomenon , but hey it is a horror movie .
This movie is different from the first movie and trust me that is not a good thing .	We somehow went from a rousing cross country adventure that was the first Pee Wee movie with lots of colorful characters and some really strange situations , but overall funny to a one town movie that is strange and not in a good way . We don't get the scenery and we do not get a very good or funny movie this time . Maybe it is because Phil Hartman did not help with the script or maybe because Tim Burton did not direct , but this movie is absolutely nothing like the first film and as I said before that is not a good thing . This time we have Pee Wee on a rather boring farm , where he has a talking pig and the towns folk are a bunch of bores . Then the circus gets blown into town and that shakes things up . That is about it , besides the odd love triangle involving Pee Wee . . . who for some reason goes from a loner and a rebel to kind of a perv . There are a couple of chuckles to be found near the beginning of the movie , but once the circus hits it is rather tedious to watch . Like I said you go from all the wacky stuff in big adventure to one setting and one setting only . You have a few stars in this one , but they don't add to the movie , only to the misery . The ending is so stupid I could not watch it again . All in all I would say skip this movie unless you are a die hard Pee Wee fan which I am not . He was amusing in the bizarre adventure world , but he comes across as rather embarrassing and even creepy in the Big Top .
Same old Ernest with jokes that make one roll their eyes and groan .	Yes , I had the misfortune of watching this film when I was younger at a friends house as his mother was a teacher and she wanted to screen the movie and see if there were any inappropriate scenes that a parent might object to . Well other than the unfunny jokes I think this one was in the clear , well the unfunny jokes and the strange scene where the look a like Ernest hits on a girl . So yes , Ernest gets thrown in jail thanks to a look a like and proceeds to try to escape and there is other stuff to it like him becoming magnetized at one point , shooting electricity , and in a very painful to watch finale flying . There are a couple of jokes , but nothing to much to mention except for the gun carved from soap . . . I think that is the only scene me or my friend's mother laughed out loud at . This and camp are the only two Ernest movies I have ever seen and from what I have seen in them I am not going to track down the other films . Ernest was good in small doses , but a movie is just to much even when it is as short as this one . I figure though the films made money , mainly because all you need is Varney and a location and a theme and you have your movie .
It was better when I was a kid .	I saw this movie as a kid and loved it . . . unlike the original Blob this one seemed to have a lot more kills . Then one night I saw it on amc and boy it was a very slow moving movie . There weren't as many kills as I had remembered and now being an adult you can tell that in some scenes the blob is nothing more than a balloon or something being inflated . This one also tries to be comedic in places and most of the humor falls flat . Then there are extended scenes where you know the blob is going to attack , but you keep waiting and waiting and finally an attack you can't see very well ( the scene with the couple in the drain pipe comes to mind ) . All in all it had some good qualities , but it just isn't much to watch . Though I did like the scene with the hippie getting his hair shampooed .
Very , very dull .	This movie was not at all what I expected it to be . This movie I found to be very boring . I love the video games and I was expecting this to be a fun movie , instead I found a movie that had absolutely no connection at all with the game series that took itself way to seriously . None of the games take place on the earth as we know it , but this does , the only monsters are phantoms , there is no well defined bad guy , and I could go on and on . You would think they could have lifted the plot from one of the games , instead of the boring one they used . The action scenes were pretty good , but there were just to many scenes where they just sat around discussing things . Also , the animation was great at times , but at others it looked as if they were moving underwater . There were many inconsistances concerning the monsters , too . At the beginning they would infect a person , then it was like they were stealing your soul . All in all I was really disappointed with this flick , they should have stayed more true to the game or at least named it something else .
Cheesy snake movie .	CGI is a great tool for some movies . . . this is not one of them . The snake in most scenes is so fake looking that they might as well made the entire movie a cartoon for crying out loud . There are some watchable areas though . . . Jon Voight is rather good , so is Owen Wilson and a couple of the other cast members , especially considering this is a giant snake movie . Lopez ( who is an awful actress and singer ) and Ice Cube aren't very good . All the snake attack scenes suck and aren't very believable at all . Well I might as well say it ; none of the scenes with our title character are very good . I got most queasy when Voight cut Stolz's throat to help him breath for crying out loud . This is a pretty good movie though to make fun of so you can have some fun watching it anyway .
Start of the groan inducing sequels to Karate Kid .	Yes , Daniel and Mr . Miyagi are back and so is the teacher from the last movie ! Well briefly , and we learn shortly after that Daniel's girl from the last movie who stood by him through it all dumped him for a football player and wrecked his car . Wow , so much for storybook endings , though I guess it makes for a more realistic course of actions . Well no time to worry about that kind of stuff as I think Mr . Miyagi's dad is dying and Mr . Miyagi must hurry back to see off his dying father . He must also confront a rival from long ago . Daniel quickly makes friends and enemies and then we have moments of pure groan . Tea ceremonies and the like litter the movie and make this movie a sequel that never should have been in my book . Granted this one made more money than the original , however , the next film would do drastically less probably because a number of people were rather disappointed by this one and the third one was rather bad . There are a couple of okay scenes in this one such as the ice breaking one and the typhoon had a visual appeal I rather liked as does the whole movie mainly because it is set in the far east . Still , the plot needed some work with a bit less sickly sweet moments .
It isn't good , but it isn't that bad .	I can't believe this one is in the top 100 worst movies of all time . Makes me think they should lower the votes to qualify , because as bad as this one is . . . it isn't in the top 100 worst movies of all time for me . This one is basically the same as the first one . Person loses loved one . . . person uses Indian Burial ground to revive them . There is a family pet reborn too . The main difference is the cop who gets reborn after being killed by the dog . If you want to see it , watch the first one instead as it is a lot better done . In this one is Edward Furlong as the really grieving person and his mother is the one that is dead . He finds out about the pet semetary from his friends and learns of the burial grounds power when the dog of his friend is buried there . All in all there are some ok scenes , but this one for the most part isn't very good . Though it isn't in the top one hundred in my book of bad movies ever made .
I thought it was either a sacrifice kind of movie or a Jaws type movie .	Turns out it was kind of a combination of both of those type movies . It also turned out to be rather boring in places too . I got this movie in a DVD set with 20 other horror movies for only 5 dollars though so I will not complain to much as there are some rather good classics on this collection as well . This movie is about a couple going to what looks like Malta , or any other small Greek island . The guy is trying to locate his sister who he finds rather quickly with James Earl Jones in a somewhat bizarre role . Well this island is not what it seems as there are ruins in an underwater cave and in that cave a creature is about to be set loose . A monster that you will not get to see for any extended period of time at all in the movie . I got one glimpse of it and from what I saw it looked a bit like the monsters from the movie " Horror at Party Beach " , only without the hot dogs in its mouth . The movie goes through many extended scenes of nothing really going on , not all that many deaths in the film either . It basically had potential had they spent more time on the monster killing and less on James Earl Jones quoting Shakespeare . A bit of gore here and there , but nothing that really compares to an Italian gore flick . There is a bit of nudity in it though as that first scene showing the girl going in the cave for sacrifice was rather nice to look at , but all in all the movie was a bit of a bore . Though there is a rather strange scene at the end where the monster seems to bite down on James Earl Jones crotch that was rather humorous .
Roaches on the attack .	This movie features roaches as super flesh eating killers . This may have been the first movie where roaches were the primary killers , though not the first movie where roaches are killers . " Damnation Alley " featured a scene with killer cockroaches and " Creepshow " had a story that had them . In this one they are the star . Not as good as it could have been this one doesn't have all that many kills in them . I could be wrong on that point , however , because I have not seen this one in quite some time . The roaches have gone killer and this very strange research lady is in town to study them . Yes , she is quite strange as at one point she has her hand in a box on the killer roaches and she is like " They are biting my hand " , and she says this in almost a state of ecstasy . There is also one super big roach near the end of this one , like in so many insect films . Not a great movie , but worth checking out on a night you are bored out of your mind .
Well it does feature a nice assortment of aliens , but the fights are lacking .	This movie is sort of like " Robot Jox " in that it has a tournament . It isn't like it , in that it is fights between aliens . The alien in this case being a rare human ready to become the first human champ in some time . All the standards are here for this type of movie with a villain , betrayal and all that good stuff that make movies of this type so predictable . It does not help that the fights are lacking any real punch as they are nothing like the high energy fights you get in an anime or any Jackie Chan movie . Still though you have loads of alien creatures to look at and some attractive female leads . That , however , does not a movie make so for the most part it is a by the numbers sports movie with an alien twist .
You can check in , but ya can't check out !	This installment of the " Nightmare on Elm St " series really was a bit to lame . Here Freddy has almost totally ditched his sinister and creepy persona and replaced it with Freddy Krueger . . . master of the one liner . Once again the kids must take a stand against Freddy and once again dream manipulation is a part of it . Not as much so as in part 3 as Freddy makes quick work of most of the kids . Here he kills in very dumb ways though and his trademark claws kill only one guy and Freddy's hand wasn't even in them at the time . There is also one of the dumbest death scenes in the movies that involves a roach motel . After all the kids are dead the main one who you knew would survive gets a bunch of her friends mementos and uses them to battle Freddy , though they are not all that effective . In the end this was not a really good movie . . . all the promise from the first one is gone and there is just too much joking going on . I never saw part five or six , but in the final installment ( the one before " Freddy vs . Jason ) Freddy would become more sinister again .
Why did they make it so campy ? ? ?	This could have been a good movie , but Joel Shuemauker really botched up . The only reason I gave this movie a 4 on the 10 rating is I liked the first ten or so minutes of action , then it was just a boring , goofy movie . To me it looks like they followed the same blueprint as they did for Batman forever , but added more gags . Arnold would have been perfect for Mr . Freeze if they portrayed him the way the cartoon series did , as an emotionless killer who wanted revenge on those who killed his wife . Instead we get Arnold saying the most stupid one-liners I have ever heard " Tonights forecast , a hard freeze " . O'Donnel as Robin was really annoying this time too . He was a whiny pain , instead of a help to Batman , and Silverstone was bad too . I mean in the comic , in the stupid tv show , and in the cartoon she is Commissioner Gordon's daughter , now she is Alfred's niece ? And she races bikes , does this give people super crime fighting skills ? I loved the first one , thought the second was ok , and liked the third , but it is time to change the costume . I mean I don't see how the bad guys keep losing considering how constricting the costume is . Thanks to this most of the fight scenes fall flat . There are more problems but I won't go into them all .
Not extremely bad , but . . .	I really couldn't get into this movie . The plot is some old woman has been torturing someone so long that he is deformed . She dies and he is left in the basement to starve . Months must pass and a family moves in . The daughter is blind because of an accident caused by the father . Well anyway this guy in the basement , who for all rights should be long dead is still around . He eats a cat and now is superhuman . He now wants to eat people and have sex . And when a hooker dies father gets the blame . I always dislike movies where someone else is blamed for the killings because you always here the typical lines " I didn't do it " , " I could never do such a thing " , blah blah blah . And the family storyline could be a lifetime movie storyline .
Well its conclusion wasn't to bad .	The only reason I went to see this one was because Sean Connery was in it . Other than that I would have skipped this one , and wish I did . For the most part it is a rather dull movie with a few interesting scenes here and there . Not totally awful , just not very good . Connery doesn't put much effort into his role , but then none of the cast is all that good . . . though you do get to see Uma in a rather nice costume . This one has the Avengers going after Connery who has some device to control the weather . That is basically all there is to it . Never saw the show so I can't compare the two . The ending had some good action though , but it is not enough to save this flick .
The sex scenes in this one are sorely lacking .	The only reason I gave this one a four is that the girls are really cute . However , the sex scenes in this movie suck ( no pun intended ) . What you get is basically the girls telling about themselves , then it switches to a scene from what I am guessing are previous scenes of the university coed series and you do not even get to see the entire scene rather just a heavily edited version . I am not talking about them cutting out the sex , but rather the scenes seemed shortened as they seem to want to focus on the girls talking . I do not mind a little interview session , but come on now , I buy a porn film for the sex not to hear what the girls have to say . One scene looked promising as it had a really cute blond going to a principal or dean or whatever . Then we get a to long her doing oral on the guy and then they show her having sex and you can tell it is cut short . What guy wants to see a oral sex scene done on another guy , I just do not see the appeal . The only time I have ever found one of these scenes the least bit appealing is in a 70's porn called " Little Girls Blue " where they basically never showed the guys face and focused on the girl . The other scenes are basically like this one too , long interview and a rushed , cut down sex scene . I would not mind seeing the girls in different movies , as for this one it is basically just interviews and scenes from previous coed movies .
That dude was hard to kill .	I never saw the other two " Ninja " movies and for all I know there are known , but for some reason I watched this one . This one starts out rather fast as this one ninja goes on a super killing spree . He is almost unstoppable as it takes quite a number of bullets to take him down . He is not out for the count though as he ends up possessing a woman and he then continues his killing ways by using her as his tool . Another ninja enters the fray and apparently the only way you kill a ninja is with another ninja so he volunteers . This leads up to a big battle at the end as the dead ninja goes back into his body and they have it out in an all out war . Sounds better than it actually turned out being , but at least it was not boring .
Had the potential to be good .	As it is . . . I found it a rather bad movie with a few good scenes . The martial arts used in this movie aren't very good at all , one person already commented on how these martial arts experts seem to know very few moves . The actors weren't very good , and despite Asian names everyone appears to be Caucasian . If you watch this one though be sure to watch it on video or something uncut cause if you watch it on regular TV most of the cooler scenes that make it seem like a live action anime are cut out . Also , when you watch this movie , you feel as if the entire movie is indoors . . . even the scenes that are supposedly outdoors , so it feels kind of cramped . The final fight between the two masters is bad too , as it just never really gets going . There was a good idea in there somewhere , but the makers blew it .
So you can get to New York by way of Crystal Lake , eh ?	This movie has some moments , but overall for me it was disappointing . . . went to the theater to see this one and I was expecting to see Jason in New York , well you do for fifteen or so minutes . The rest of the carnage takes place on a boat heading for New York . This entry is kind of devoid of the gore and graphic nudity you would expect from a Friday the 13th movie and that doesn't help it any . There are also quite a few flaws as well . I just don't see a boat somehow getting to New York from where they started out . I don't believe Crystal lake was that close to the Atlantic .
Well it is the summer I guess .	Yes , it being the summer is the only thing that remotely ties this film to the first two movies . That being said I did enjoy this movie more than part two , however , you can see by my score of four that I still did not like this movie overall . It had potential and I think its low score here of 2 . 8 has a lot to do with the fact it tries to pass itself off as a sequel to a set of movies it has nothing remotely in common with . However , that being said overall it was still a poor comedy with the typical teen sex comedy plot . . . guy wants to lose virginity . The twist , a ghost of a porn star must try and help him . Of course , my question is why does he need help ? He is pals with a cute girl who would obviously be more than willing to have sex with him , I mean she is watching a porno with him . Still , if it were that easy there would be no movie . However , that may have been a good thing in this case . Still , it has a couple of good comedy moments and far less groan inducing humor than part two ( though it has its fair share as well ) . So there you have it , we go from family oriented comedy to a teen sex romp in three films .
They released this at the wrong time .	This movie is based on the cartoon He-Man and the Masters of the Universe a cartoon that ran from 1983-1985 . So as you can see by the time this movie made it to the big screen He-Man was already very much out of the picture . Kids grow up and change to liking new things and by 87 He-Man had been all but forgotten . The height of He-Man's popularity was probably in its first season in 83 so this movie was bound to suffer from the release date . Another problem with this movie is that all the action for the most part takes place on earth . What episode ever did that . . . none of em ' . In fact this movie takes very little from the show that it was supposed to be based on . Sure there are a few characters in it all He-Man fans would know , but for some reason they added new characters . Anyone who collected the action figure knows that there were plenty of characters both good and bad to be had . Why did they feel the need to invent new ones ? We have the little dwarf played by Billy Barty ( why not Orko , he was only in every episode on the tv show ) and on the bad guys side we have this creature with long gray hair , a lizard man who was never on the show , and some stupid guy called Blade who wears a ridicules costume . The plot is like nothing from the show . . . for some reason Skeletor has warriors who look a lot like storm troopers . Worse , for some reason there is no Prince Adam only He-Man played alright I guess by Dolph Lundgrun . The only thing that saves this piece are some good action scenes .
Liked it at first .	As a kid my parents burned me out taking me to this film . Every day they wanted to get rid of my sister and me for the day they took us to E . T . By the third or fourth time , I really began not to really care for this movie to the point of being incapable of wanting to watch it again . The story is simple though and good for kids to watch . Even as a kid though I got quickly bored of this on and today I never want to see it again . I will say I really enjoyed it the first and second time I saw it , but I have to say this movie is definitely for kids and they will get the most enjoyment of seeing Elliot help the little alien call his friends to pick him up . This movie was also a really big advertisement for the candy Reese's pieces . . . they were basically unheard of before this movie .
So why wasn't Godzilla in the movie ?	This is a movie I looked forward to for a year . I have always enjoyed Godzilla flicks and now we the Americans were going to make it with all our special effects and know how . I can not tell you how disappointed I was with this movie . One of my main gripes ( and certainly not the only one ) was Godzilla himself / herself . It looked nothing like the Japan version . It sounded like him ( because theirs is a guy ) and that is it . I heard that Sony had to show them our version before hand and Toho had to approve . . . why did they approve of that ? Not only did it not look like Godzilla , but it did not act like Godzilla . Godzilla does not burrow underground he just stomps through the city . Suffice to say those missles would have crashed into him with no effect . Godzilla is bigger than they portrayed as well , and he breaths much cooler looking fire breath that the American version . Let's face it the Japan version would kick our version's but in about five minutes , the only reason it would last that long is the fact is moved like a raptor from Jurrassic Park . It was also killed to easily , the Japan version would never be taken down that easily . . . they always have to come up with some new and innovative way of getting him back in the sea , not just slam a couple of missiles into him . And what is up with him being pregnet , sure the Japan version had a son that was never quite explained , but ours has to have a litter of raptors . And Godzilla is not a lizard , but a dinosaur a mix of T-rex and stegasauros . I would have had a sub accident in the polar region to have him born , because I have never heard of a creature migrating north to give birth . Then of course there is the story that was dumb . . . they evacuated the city in five minutes so there goes the fun of seeing people flee , you get to see a woman trying to advance her reporting career ( was that really necessary ) , and our military is hardly in the film except for a few scenes , yet the French military is for some reason ( I don't think they could have ever traced Godzilla back to them ) .
The actors were bad , but there was an interesting crime story buried beneath the bad line reads .	Granted it was not the best movie ever or anything , in the end it was rather bad , but it still had its interesting points . I like some of the interrogation methods displayed and they also showed some good ways to get a confession out of someone without resorting to telephone books or rubber hoses as it were . Still the acting was very bad and the characters pretty darn annoying at times . Even more annoying is this voice over literally telling us how long the murder victim had to live . . . lets just say her murder is very anti-climatic as they just about count down her death to the second . The physic researcher is a bit of a hammy actor , but I found him kind of amusing . . . more annoying characters include all the idiot suspects . Everyone of them are played badly , but not so badly as to be amusing as the researcher is . The cops are probably the best actors on the screen and that , I am afraid , is not a good thing . The plot , someone gets murdered and the police try to track down the killer . . . this movie plays out more like an episode of a television show rather than a movie and I can see why it was never released . Still , I saw " Monster A Go Go " a day later and it makes this movie look Oscar worthy .
The last of the academy movies I saw .	Never saw the one where they go to Russia and do not really care too . They at this point really were stretching the premise thin with this one . However , they do try some differing things here so it is not the worst of the series that I have seen . Basically , the academy is just a part of the title to associate it with the other movies . The cast is the same familiar faces and the jokes are about the same too . Here though they are trying to stop a crime wave involving these guys who map everything out and leave very little evidence . There is a head guy who is behind it all and who he is adds a bit of mystery , but not much this is a comedy after all not a crime mystery movie . In the end Hightower has to fight someone just as strong as he is , Takleberry must face down someone as good with guns as he is , and Michael Winslow's character must take down someone as good in karate as he is . After this movie they would thankfully take a break from making these movies , and it looked like it had finally ended until Mission to Moscow would come out . Never saw it so I can not review it , and I am not going to try to track it down just so I can see and review all this movies .
Basically the same thing as one and two combined .	Yes , combine the first two movies take away most of the cussing and raunchy jokes and you have the start of the very stale Police Academy sequels . I enjoyed the first two films , and I will say this one had some laughs , but way to much wrong with it to be considered even an okay film . The only redeeming factor is that once again G . W . Bailey is absent and the more funnier Mauser is in this one with his assistant Proctor . They made for most of the humor and Mauser's absence in the next film stands out to me . The story has two police academies in an area and one of them is to be shut down . Mauser is in charge of one , and granted how did he get an academy since the last movie is a rather good question . One wonders is this supposed to be a sequel and for the most part other than this strange turn it seems to be . Most of the jokes have been done , Bobcat is back and you wonder why . He was good in the last movie , in this one his presence is overkill . I thought how Mahoney in the first film got into the academy there is no way Bobcat could have . So all in all the start of very weak sequels and you will begin to know the jokes by heart .
Well it was pretty gory .	For the most part I didn't really like this movie . I just went for the heck of it , cause I didn't care for Silence all that much either . This one has Lector being pursued by Julianne Moore in the role done by Jodie Foster in Lambs . A previous victim out for revenge against Lector is also pursuing him . Hopkins is rather good in the role , but all in all I just didn't enjoy the plot all that much . The best part about this movie was the gore . For an R movie this one was rather gory , but I am guessing since the director made the Oscar movie Gladiator just the previous summer and it had Sir Anthony Hopkins in it the ratings board my have let quite a bit slide . It is no secret the ratings board plays favorites , heck I think if Spider-man was pg-13 , Star Wars should have been too . Lucas though has some influence . All in all a gory movie , but I expect more from a big budget Hollywood movie besides gore .
One of the first horror films I remember that used horrible computer generated graphics .	Yes , Jurassic Park used computer generated images very well . However , they had a big budget and were able to make those dinosaurs look very realistic . This one ended up making very bad images of hell and of weird crap that looked as if it were not there . Jeff Goldblum was in both , coincidence ? Yes , but still he was in one of the best examples of early computer images and one of the worst . What makes it more terrible is that a lot of horror movies began doing it , and to this day the monsters in these movies still look like they are not there . So the story in this one has two guys dying and being revived by similar means . One a family guy with a daughter , the other guy . . . well lets just say he is not so good . The guy who is not so good has a secret about his death , he is also a killer . The other guy ( Goldblum ) seems to have a link to this killer because of the way they were both revived . Near the end the killer targets the teen daughter and the father must try to pry her from this seemingly evil guy's clutches . Just did not really work for me , and apparently not to Dean Koontz either as I hear he did not like this movie at all . It has a somewhat good cast for a horror movie as along with Goldblum you have Alicia Silverstone and Alfred Molino , but one just can not get the lame effects out of one's head .
Should have stuck to being pure comedy .	For the most part this movie is a comedy , but for some reason in other parts it tries to be a serious horror movie . Just the fact that the killer is talking through a rubber chicken should really convince the director not to take the movie too seriously . Let me just saw when it is trying to be funny it is alright , but when it is not it just doesn't fit . I mean you begin to wonder if you are watching the same film . The last part of the film is almost totally devoid of humor .
People complain that slugs are too slow to be scary , but remember these are super mutant slugs . . . their twice as fast !	This movie actually starts out with a rather promising scene . This guy and gal are in a boat on a lake . He is fishing I think with his feet in the water . The girl says something about swimming , but the guy says there is something slimy in the water . He suddenly gets sucked in and a bunch of blood comes bubbling up as the girl is left cowering in the boat . This , however , is not relevant in the rest of the movie as the lake is never seen again and these two characters are never seen or spoken of again . Even the lake is never seen again . Instead you have slugs just terrorizing a town . I forget what made them go berserk here , but that isn't important , with a movie like this you just want to see whatever insect or bug is featured killing people . This one is not too gory though and it is not one of the worst movies ever , but it is still not all that great . It just needed more to it . . . though there are a couple of good scenes , particularly the scene with the couple in bed . Still though why couldn't they just use salt to kill the slugs ? For a better slug movie watch " Night of the Creeps " , though in that movie they are not really slugs , but rather some sort of space creature .
Not a hero I can really back .	Let me start out by saying this is one of the more enjoyable movies I have ever seen on Mystery Science Theater 3000 . Despite this fact the movie still has many , many flaws and things I don't like about it . For one is the hero . He is not really a hero , but since the camera focuses on him most of the time I will call him the hero . He is an apparent master thief who lives in an underground hideout comparable to Lex Luther's place in Superman . How one man and his girlfriend could build a place like this I will never know , because you can't really contract for this type of job . I don't mind the fact Diabolik steals so much either , it is the fact he kills guards and whoever else is in his way . The officer after him makes a deal with criminals to get this guy he is so bad . Though I am afraid that none of Diabolik's opponents are the sharpest knives in the drawer . How you can't catch one man is beyond me . And how does Diabolik know every counter plan the police plan , he works by himself and sends his girlfriend in to scout places , but he can't really get the information that he apparently has . Oh well , it isn't the best movie in the world , but there are good points to it . The girlfriend is really attractive , some of the lines are funny , and seeing Diabolik find a way out of trouble is entertaining .
Trying to change the series .	This one tried to change the series as Jason was killed in the previous installment of the series . In fact , in this one it is mentioned that Jason has even been cremated . Here someone else is doing the killings . . . I won't say who though . This one isn't all that bad , it features gruesome deaths and all the norm for the most part . It also has a rather good nude scene in it . All in all though it isn't a very good film . It is basically focused on Tommy , who in this movie looks 21 or older . Hard to believe he grew up so fast . He is placed in a halfway house for the insane . Though one thing this one does feature is a totally unexpected kill near the beginning . At least it caught me off guard .
The same , but then again not the same . . . all in all though the weakest of the Rambo movies I have seen .	I have yet to see the fourth entry into the First Blood / Rambo series , but of the three I have seen this is by far the weakest . I had to watch this movie in two sittings cause for me it was just hard to sit through . I do not know why this one kind of bores me , it has action and a cool scene involving gunpowder , it just sort of still disappoints to a high degree . Rambo is once again approached by Trautman to accompany him on a mission to I think Afghanistan . Rambo declines probably tired after the strange fight he has that would later be spoofed in the rather humorous film " Hot Shots part Deus " . Well Trautman is caught by those mean , evil Russians while trying to help the poor , good natured Afghans ( of course , I think if we knew then what we know now we would have been pulling for the Russians ) . So off Rambo goes , to save his buddy from the clutches of the Russians . Along the way he plays a stupid game and rides a horse which for some reason strikes me as very unRambolike . You have the fight aboard a helicopter which along with the gunpowder scene are probably the best in the film . I also liked it when he was crawling on his belly and using his knife to find mines . Besides that though this movie is almost unwatchable as the set up is familiar , but then it is not . I just think this movie was not well thought out and executed a bit more poorly than the other two Rambo's .
Why kid's need to be kept in check .	Yes , this movie is not the best movie in the world but it does one thing most movies do not do . It shows what children would do if they were in control . Granted other movies portray kid's as somehow always outwitting the adults , coming to peaceful resolutions on things , and nothing they do is wrong . I always find this total crap as I went to school I was picked on and such when there was supervision , kids are moronic at best and can not be left to do as they wish . If nothing else this movie shows what kids and teenagers would do if they got some power . The story , well the kids are not enjoying camp much because the head counselor is a bit strict , so in the background one teen decides to stir some stuff up and through a series of events takes the counselors and locks them up and decides to take control of the camp along with the other dumb kids and teens who do not seem to realize that they are going to be very much in trouble once the police find out . The movie is rather graphic , but despite the title by no means is it a horror movie . It is not even all that good except for a couple of scenes involving the rope bridge . Be warned there is a rape scene in the movie and while it does not show any nudity it is obvious what is going on . Here is a bit of advice though if something of this type happens out there . While the rape that occurs from like a guy who sneaks up on you is hard to avoid as it catches you by surprise the one done when it is a boyfriend or friend is easily avoidable . If you say no and he persists and he seems to be getting violent , just act like you are going along with the sex , grab him in the weak area acting like you are going to rub him then squeeze very hard and I guarantee you will be able to get away rather easily just do not wait till he recovers . So this movie may be worth checking out for a strange twist to the summer camp movie I just can not really recommend it either because even though it shows how I feel kids would act in this situation quite well it still ticks me off to see their behavior .
Mainly a rat movie .	Therein lays the main problem I had with this movie even as a kid . This movie had promise , but turns into mainly a giant rat movie with Bert I . Gordon's main technique the old rear projection monster . I liked his " Empire of the Ants " because it combined that trick with big model ants , but this one is mostly rear projected rats . I liked the wasps and there was a centipede and a giant chicken too , but after the wasps are destroyed there is nothing else but the stupid rats . So basically this one starts out interestingly enough , but degrades to something like another of Gordon's films " The Beginning of the End " . How they destroy the rats is a bit stupid too , as doesn't Gordon know what a rat does on a sinking ship ? So this one is one that has promise , but fails to deliver . It used to come on television all the time , but you rarely see it these days and seeing how low its score is here , that is probably a good thing .
Kind of a slow moving haunted house tale .	I remembered this one from when I was a kid and bought it cause I remember it being rather good and spooky . Sadly , it just was not what I remember at all . Very slowly executed , you learn the truth behind the whole affair about midway through this one and it still runs on for about another hour . Not that it is all bad . . . you do get a spooky séance scene , a great image involving a little girl seeing a boy underwater , and a somewhat interesting conclusion . The acting features George C Scott and he is rather good and adds a bit to the film . Though I have to say he does not react very well the first time he sees the specter in the tub as he might as well just saw some hair in the drain . The story has a composer of piano music losing his wife and daughter at the beginning of the film . He moves far away in hopes of getting his life back on track and somehow ends up renting one big house . Well as with most haunted house flicks of this type you have your little noises here and there and strange shifting objects as well . Throughout the movie you join Scott's character as he unravels a very old mystery involving tenants that owned the house back in the early 1900's . Suffice to say you learn the mystery to soon and you have to much movie left when you find out the secret . The rest of the movie feels like padding which you do not need in a nearly two hour movie . They could have easily trimmed this down a bit . Also , the whole secret at the end makes me think the spook in this one has some misdirected anger issues . There also is not a lot going on in this one to garner it an R rating . I have seen movies that contain more risqué scenes in this era get PG ( Bond movies for instance ) , why they felt the need to make this one an R is beyond me . However , do not take my word for it as from the score here it is liked more than not . . . just was not for me .
Interesting setting , two veteran actors , but not many scares to be found .	I liked the setting , there seemed to be some interesting story elements . . . but it was poorly executed and the ending completely destroyed what the rest of the film set up and was just awful . An ending right out of a Lifetime movie's ending to be sure . The movie starts with a rather interesting burst . . . girl being chased by unknown force , but I figured there may be trouble when the ghost was seen and the effects looked like something out of a television movie . Still when the story shifted from modern times to the 1800's it seemed to be going in an interesting direction again . However , the movie basically shows this one girl repeatedly attacked , in the same fashion numerous times and it quickly wears thin . They try to figure out the cause for these attacks by a seemingly angry spirit , but they never find out anything that could help or save the plot as the movie spirals to a rather bad ending that really is quite lame when you consider what the movie seemed to be setting up . I mean just because you can make a twist ending doesn't mean you should and this was a twist just to make a twist . You don't get what the movie promises with its opening words , you get really no satisfaction at all . I mean I am doubting the reason all the stuff happened was like the movie maker here suggested . I am thinking they could have made this movie a little more interesting with a bit more research into the actual " Bell witch Hauntings " .
Giant robots not more than meets the eyes .	Think a darker version of one of those kid shows such as " Power Rangers " and you have this film from 1990 , " Robot Jox " . A movie where you fight with giant robots , two men enter the arena and whoever comes out their country wins . The robots are huge and look like slightly better versions of the ones from said shows mainly because they are less colorful so while this movie is not good , it isn't all bad to watch . There are as I recall two robot fights in this one , one that ends badly and the final showdown . There is a plot twist part way through as a traitor is revealed , but in the end the plot is nothing that is going to stick with you for any amount of time after the picture is done . The fights themselves look like giant toys on the rampage , but still somewhat fun to watch . This movie would also spawn a couple of other films with similar plot devices such as the giant robots and the tournament . So it is worth checking out once , but probably not more than that .
Fighting game that needs more marvel characters and a better story mode .	This games cover made it look like an extremely well done game . Add to that a nice opening sequence as invaders have come to destroy earth and some of earth's mightiest heroes have already fallen . In the end it disappoints with to much focus on the Imperfects and not enough on the marvel characters especially in the end . I like to be able to play a game without inviting the gang over to play and as a single player game this one will keep you entertained for a bit , but not over the long haul . The fighting is easy to pick up and I love the fact that the characters are not the same strength , but why such a limited number of characters ? Sure we get Spider-man , Wolverine , Venom , Daredevil and more to choose from , however the marvel universe is so expansive you could have had twice the number of marvel characters and still had the three they choose to knock out of action early . This game could have won me over also with multiple endings , but it doesn't go the only route that could have saved it . Instead the ending rushes at you with one lame character you have to win with . . . why not have it so you decide who win's the game and save the day ? That would have given this game so much more reply value . In the end an okay fighter with some of your favorite marvel characters and some new characters who often mirror one of the marvel ones .
What is the plot ? Well you will never know if you want to win .	Yes , as with all Sega CD movie games featuring actors this game has a fatal flaw that is common theme with about all of them . This one seems to have better actors than most and it has rather interesting gameplay though rather simplistic . You basically use security cameras to monitor rooms , you have mob type dudes and ninjas are something and when they step on certain points on the screen you push a button and trigger a trap and they get bonked or fall in a hole or something . It is somewhat fun watching them fall in these traps and seeing the different types of traps , but it does get old . As for the fatal flaw you ask ? Well you have scenes going on while you are monitoring the rooms , explaining motivations for some of the characters and such . Well if you take the time to listen to these scenes you lose the game as to many of the intruders will break in . What is the point of filming these scenes with this actors and actresses if you can not watch them ? So you end up just catching random people without really knowing what the heck is going on , however the ending is kind of funny as you put Eddie ( Corey Haim's character ) through some real hell .
It's a Bore ! ! !	Well that is not fair . It was not totally boring , but it was not exactly all that scary or even interesting . The trailers for this one were clearly trying to capitalize on the success of the " Nightmare on Elm Street " franchise . The promos for this one basically said if you found Freddy scary , wait till you see Harris . . . or something to that effect . In reality it has very little in common with Elm Street other than a few dreams here and there . The movie is set in I believe a mental ward and it turns into more of a mystery rather than a horror . The only one who sees the dreaded Harris is the one survivor of his strange cult . Basically , those in the mental ward are being offed and she sees him and thinks he has come back . A twist at the end , but all in all a rather dull film with a few moments of interest here and there .
Attack of the rat people !	This movie had a good premise , and at a point in the flick I thought the tables were turning and I was really going to enjoy this one . However , it did not turn the corner for me and in the end was generally a movie I did not care for , but was one or two steps away from being a movie I could classify as okay . One of the problems is the setup in this film . It takes a long time for this movie to really get going , though part of this may stem from the fact I have been spoiled by other horror movies like " The Mist " and " Feast " that only take a short time before all hell breaks loose . The story has this people living in a building that is about to be taken over by some corporation . . . what this has to do with anything is beyond me as this is never touched on after the city goes crazy . A man awaits his daughter's return home after a tour of duty in Irag I am guessing . You also meet these two old guys and another guy who is a friend of the father and returning girl . You also meet a mother and her son . However , as normally as their day is progressing all is not well . During newscasts and other scenes you see that rats are becoming a bit more aggressive and there victims are becoming a bit messed up too . This goes on for a bit then the city is thrown into chaos as the victims of the rats start dining on everyone not infected . At this point the movie seemed to be getting better , however the camera work is so jumpy that I had a hard time following the picture . There was also a bit more street action than I was thinking there would be as I was thinking it would be the tenants holding up in their apartment complex more . Sort of a Night of the Living Dead scenario . So it came close to being okay for me , but missed the mark and the ending was quite strange too .
Another almost good horror movie with to many faults . . .	This horror movie starts out promisingly enough and there is a moment where I thought to myself " this is going to be really good " . However , it gets rather boring rather quick at the end . The acting is fairly good , as is the location and the story starts out rather well too . The problem , not enough kills on screen and an ending where you have the monster basically turning tail and running . I wanted to see more , especially after a very good sleeping bag scene where I thought the movie was picking up and going to be a winner . Unfortunately after that the movie showed the monster very little and the back of the DVD lied as it told me that the desert beneath the people literally came alive and was capable of devouring their flesh . . . now that would have been some movie , a nearly inescapable situation . Granted that would have made viewers uncomfortable and it might of ramped up the tension , but that is what horror movies are supposed to do ! Instead we have very few shots of the creature or creatures as it were and when we do see it , it is mainly on the defensive . Still it wasn't all bad , it just needed more horror less hunting and more chomping .
When someone is killed with a giant band aid you know the movie is lame .	This movie is of course about a crazed doctor . He was in a mental hospital , but he escapes and he goes off to do some surgery . He finds a girl who suffers from some sort of heart ailment and this reminds him of his mother so he wants to help her . Along the way you get to see him kill people in rather stupid ways to get their hearts . Had potential , but ultimately this one gets to goofy at times for its own good . Some scenes though are rather gory such as the flashback scene where they show how the kid managed to escape , but in the end these scenes are too few and far between . If you see it you may want to watch it just to say you saw it if you are a fan of horror , but nothing to really search hard for .
Rather good performances are the only thing that saves it .	I was expecting a horror , and got more of a comedy and that fact alone ruined it for me . This one doesn't even try to keep its plot a secret as it says what the movie is all about in the plot summary here . Yes , it is about a guy and I think his sister running a hotel where they also process meat and it doesn't take long to figure out his special ingredient . The only thing to see this movie for is to see how it plays out . I didn't find this movie all that funny and considering it is a comedy horror that doesn't help . In fact I only chuckled a couple of times . The funniest line in the movie for me was the hotel owner's speech at the end . The performances are fine here , but they are about the only thing good in this one . From the credits you think Wolfman Jack is in it a lot , but he was in it less than five minutes . The appearance of this one is pretty good , as it does look newer than 1980 , but I just didn't care for it mainly cause I wanted to see a straight horror movie . And also why did the one guy wear a pig head during the chainsaw duel , looks like that would affect your vision .
Great title , rather bad movie .	This movie seemed to have quite a lot of potential . It jumped out of the gates swinging , but in the end it turns into a bit of a dud . This movie starts out with a guy finding these playing cards with pictures of monsters and stuff on them . The monsters end up being real and they go on a killing rampage . What are they and what is their purpose I don't think is ever revealed . They quickly go kill some kids and I am thinking it was better than what people said . Then comes the standard cops do not believe a thing scene that usually appear in movies of this sort and then a rather interesting dream sequence . Then there is a whole lot of nothing going on . The movie turns into a total snooze fest , as some teens try and figure out what is going on . Then the end comes and it doesn't match up to the beginning and it is just a real letdown after the brisk pace that it started out with . Also , how come these monsters are a problem at all ? They happen to have a rather lame weakness that is really quite easy for anyone to use . All in all a movie with potential that falls flat .
Its bad when the story of the video game outshines that of the movie version .	Yes , this movie was a bit of a letdown for me . I was expecting a really bang bang shoot em up type movie . I did not really get that here . I should have known it was not going to be good when it was rated pg-13 instead of R . I mean the game was rated M yet the movie garners a lower rating , why ? I mean do the 13 through 16 year old boys really have that much impact on how much a movie makes that you tick off those of us who like a lot of blood and cussing in our action movie ? Really , there are a heck of a lot more of us over the age of 16 that our money should be more of a concern . Enough of that though , the movie to me was a bit boring . Max Payne might have been portrayed right by Mark Walhberg , but they seem to have taken away Payne's sense of humor in this movie . I mean the dude in the video game lost his family to , but there was still a sense of humor in some of his inner monologues . The movie also took a lot of the better plot points of the game out and substituted them with plot points that were not very good at all . Along with this the whole angel / demon thing was a bit much and one of those things they added that if left out could have saved the movie money , money that could have been added to more shoot outs and such . So the story , Payne lost his wife and kids and now he is searching for the killer and is joined somewhat by an assassin girl who loses a sister during the course of the movie . A rather underdeveloped assassin girl who all but disappears at the end of the movie after she shoots one guy up . That is about all there is to it , it is obvious they are aiming for a sequel , but I prefer my movie to end with less loose ends to tie up than this one did . Still , there is a couple of nice shoot outs , and the visuals in the movie are rather nice , I just wish they had movie shots fired . Why do comic book movies and video games movies seem to have such short action sequences ? There are exceptions to this , but it seems makers of these types of films just feel they have to delve into the characters a bit more than necessary . Look at one of the exceptions " The Dark Knight " , in that one you had a very nice long action sequence with the big car chase scene and that movie did rather well . So basically other than the two shoot outs and nice visuals this movie falls way short of the video game in terms of entertainment value .
Dawn of the Dead rip-off extrodinare .	What to say about this movie ? Where to start ? I think I will begin with the title . I bought it as " Hell of the Living Dead " . It is also known as " Virus " , " Night of the Zombie " , and " Zombie : Creeping Flesh " . Out of these titles the creeping flesh one and virus fit , but the other two do not . Especially , the night one . Most of the zombie action takes place in broad daylight . Then there is the stock footage . I know many have commented on it , but man there is a lot of it . Here is a little advice to all film makers , don't set the movie in a location you can't film in . And if you must use stock footage at least use some different shots rather than just birds and monkeys in the tree tops . Then there is the music . When people say it is just like " Dawn of the Dead " they aren't kidding . It is exactly the same music and when it isn't music from Dawn it is music from a sci-fi movie called " Alien Containamation " and when it isn't music from it , it is a combination of both . Then there is the similarities between Dawn and this movie . The swat team , the reporters , the center at the end and the mall in dawn , the situation at the beginning where the swat team is first introduced , the elevator scene and so on . The zombies themselves aren't the best in the game . Well some do look rather good , but most of them have very little make up . Then there is the swat team who make it through horde after horde of zombie only losing one member , this team seems competent , then they reach the facilty and proceed to become very easily killed idiots . They aren't very distinct either , I think they are all dubbed by the same person . A good point about this movie is the plot . It involves a leak a research facility called " Hope " . Its nice to have zombies come to life for a reason and as bad as this flick is the end isn't to bad with plenty of gore effects . In fact after the " Hope " scene the movie cuts to two people attacked in the park and it is like wow this is looks like a better zombie movie about to start ! But it is actually the end of this one . You can learn some lessons from this movie though 1 ) Zombies can only be killed if you shoot them in the head , but go ahead and shoot them in the body because it looks cool and you never run out of ammunition anyway 2 ) When going into an area of stock footage natives get the girl in your party to take her shirt off and dress up like a native , does it help , no ! But if she's willing to do it let her ( why didn't the horny soldiers not make one comment when she took off her shirt ? ) 3 ) If your friend is attacked by an apparently dead rat , don't lend a hand he deserves to die for being stupid enough to let himself get killed by a rat 4 ) Don't put your guns down and put on a tu-tu and top hat and pick up a cane when zombies are in the area 5 ) When on a beach it is possible to find boats just lying around 6 ) and finally , don't speculate on why everything is happening till you are out of the building where the zombies are , this just gives them a chance to gang up on you . In the end this is a bad flick with some areas that are OK . If you have a wicked sense of humor though and like making fun of films then give it a try .
Aside from the Burly Brawl and the Freeway chase I just didn't care for it that much .	I know a lot of you liked this movie , but it just wasn't for me . It just didn't have a good flow like the first one and resembled stop and go traffic for me . The good parts of this movie though included the fight between Neo and Agent Smith generally referred to as the Burly Brawl . It was one of the more fun moments in an otherwise too serious film . Even though some of it was clearly digital I still enjoyed it . Probably , because Hugo Weaving the actor who portrays Agent Smith seems to be just having fun with the role and isn't as stiff as most of the actors in this movie . The actor who was the French guy and the gal playing his wife are also rather good in their roles . The freeway chase is just a nice car chase that is exciting to watch even if you hated the rest of the film . Unfortunately these scenes may make up 20 or so minutes of the film . The rest of the movie is poorly paced and just rather dull and anticlimactic for me . The first 45 minutes or so aren't really worth watching at all , as it is very talky and dry . There is also a very bad dance sequence and sex scene between Neo and Trinity , which isn't very appealing to look at . Carrie Anne Moss just isn't attractive to me and at times I have a hard time distinguishing between her and Neo during that scene . Quite frankly , I would rather get it on with Rebecca Romaijn Stamos in full Mystique makeup . Keanu Reeves seems more tense in this movie , like the directors wanted him to do a flawless job . In the first one he seemed to be having fun . Fishburne also does a worse job . All his lines are philosophic . . . I mean can't the guy talk normally every now and then . Yoda even takes a break now and again , but no matter what the circumstance Morpheus ( Fishburne's character ) always says something philosophical and he says it very slow . Jada Pinkett Smith is in this one . . . sort of . She adds nothing to the movie , but I here she is very featured in the video game . This is kind of stupid , as a person shouldn't have to do homework before seeing the movie . Apparently , you have to watch those animated movies and play the game to totally understand all that is happening in the flick . You should be able to go to a film though and just enjoy . All in all I give this movie a 4 , because of those two scenes I really enjoyed . I won't insult anyone who liked this movie , but like I said it isn't for me .
Started out interesting , but got dull near the end .	I saw a movie on before this one , another Hammer film and it was rather good . The effects were cheesy and stuff , but I liked what I saw ( only caught the last 40 or so minutes ) . I was glad to see another Hammer film after it , but it wasn't so good . For one there is no Lee or Cushing , for another this movie just lost me after you found out the scheme way to early . It was so obvious what was going to be the end . Anyway it wasn't a total loss as it was interesting to start out as a teacher who had some problems at some missionary was given a chance to teach in a small town where there would be no worries , but of course things weren't as they seemed . This one plays more like a mystery , which is precisely why it didn't entirely work . You never reveal the plot so early in a movie . They should have held out a little on who the witch was , but I guess it was a bit obvious , eh ?
I think it is illegal to have two surprise endings .	Not that the endings are much of a surprise , it is just the movie sets up one thing only to tear it down in the end , and then it tears down what just happened and sets up what the movie was trying to establish in the first place . I know that doesn't make sense , but if you saw it you may get what I am trying to say . This movie stars Michael Caine as a comic book artist . He ends up getting into a wreck , well actually he and his wife just avoid a wreck , but he gets his hand chopped off . He goes through some depression because his hand is not found and can't be reattached . He ends up getting an artificial hand which lets him to some things , but not things that take a little touch ( like draw the comic he does ) . He tries teaching a class , but he is still depressed about losing his hand and not being able to draw . Meanwhile , his lost hand has seemingly come to have a life of its own , and for some reason it wants to kill . Could have been a good movie , but they turn stuff around here and there to try and surprise the audience and it ends up really deflating the whole movie .
It is well made , but I just don't like musicals .	My friend wanted me to watch this movie , even though he knows I hate musicals . I will have to say this is one of the better ones I have seen , but I still didn't care for it for the most part . It is basically a remake of " Romeo and Juliet , and that doesn't help as I don't care for Shakespeare that much either . The movie is at its best when no one is singing or dancing , but this is coming from someone who doesn't like those things in his movie . So if you like musicals check this one out , because if I could take it , then you should really enjoy it . I also didn't care much for the ending and how they got to that point . That guy should have just stayed away from the whole rumble .
Just to weak of an adaptation for what the book was .	The book was really good , rather scary , and had its share of gore . The television movie was in comparison just plain weak . I can understand you can not include everything from one of King's longer and most imaginative novels , but this movie seemed like it was made for the Lifetime channel ( in fact I have seen it on there ) . No gore , no scares , and a totally screwed up ending . Many of the best parts of the book are completely left out such as the house where the silver shot was actually used and too much of some of the slower parts of the book are left in ( the in depth scenes of them getting the call ) . It was also done a totally different way because in the book the children flashbacks are throughout the book and run along the adult stories while here the children are in part one and the adults part two . In fact in the book the children are more of the focus while in the television version it is the adults . I can understand some of the changes , you absolutely could not do the one scene in the sewers with the boys and Beverly even if it was an " R " rated theatrical release , but leaving out almost all the gruesome deaths and making the ending as corny as they did just ruined the whole thing for me . I wasn't particularly thrilled with the casting for the most part either , only John Ritter stood out in this one . Well so did Harry Anderson , but that was because I used to watch " Night Court " . So what you get is a totally non-scary horror movie that just doesn't have the zip the book did .
Ultimately disappointing .	This is my first video game review , but I figured I would write one on this game cause maybe I can save someone 49 . 95 . I thought it was okay , but a step backward quite frankly from Spider-man two . Based on Spidey comics I have never read the villains and heroes from the most part look and act differently than any in the comic book I read with the exceptions of Spider-man , Venom , and Silver Sable . Once again Spidey's strength is ignored , but here I am thinking the Spider-man from the Ultimate series is not in the same strength class as the one I read in the comics as he has trouble holding onto a car while the one from the comics I read can hurl a car quite easily . Once again we have the Grand Theft Auto influence of the free roaming environment that makes you have the ability to swing around town , but other than Grand Theft Auto it actually seems to shorten dramatically the story of any other game that uses this technique . You have your array of villains here , but once again not enough for me . . . Spidey has dozens and dozens of enemies why not use as many as possible ? Let's face it the video game systems are more powerful now they can handle a large collection of villains . I want 20 or more boss fights not 7 or 8 . And speaking of boss fights , they are all the same . Chase villain through city , fight , repeat . There is no variety to the missions at all . The boss fights themselves are underwhelming when you are Spidey thanks to the fact he can't lift and throw stuff or use his webbing in most of the fights and a bit more fun when you are Venom . Quite frankly I will take " The Amazing Spider-man " video game for the PS1 over this game any day in terms of fighting . Spidey doesn't have as many moves as he did in the previous two games based on the movies . The swinging is also worse as instead of just blazing through the city doing all sorts of cool moves it is almost as if you are fighting the controls to make Spidey chase someone and Venom doesn't swing at all , but he does jump rather well . There is also no variety in the mini games either . You either race or fight a gang . The city events are the same as the last game , bank robberies , people on ledges about to fall so on and so on so there really is not enough to keep you playing after the very boring ending where you get to see the same credits you can access any time at the start screen . I am guessing only role playing games these days put any sort of effort in the ending . So if you have not bought this game yet , don't do so now , wait for it to go down to 19 . 95 . I hope they make another Spidey game not based on the movies and not based on the ultimate comics cause I really want to play an ultimate Spider-man game with nearly all the exclusive villains of Spider-man including the Hobgoblin and Green Goblin on a goblin glider . Man the Green Goblin in the Ultimate series sucks compared to the one from amazing .
One of the first pure role playing games for the playstation 2 .	Yes , this game came out as a launch title for the playstation 2 . This along with Eternal Ring , Orphen and that one that had all the clothes changes and such in it as the first role playing games for the then new system . Of them all this was the most like a role playing game than any of the others . Unfortunately , after a rather promising opening scene where you are introduced to the character who is to become the summoner the game gets more and more dull . I have never seen so many long winded speeches and such at one point the game was like taking a history class or something . The fighting is weak too , as it is the first game that I had played that used the action turn based combat that would be later found in Knights of the Old Republic and Final Fantasy XII and I am not the biggest fan of this type of fighting . Either make it all turn based like all the other Final Fantasy games , or make it all action based like the Tales games and Star Ocean games . I really hate the hybrid as it becomes a pain to do spells and such . The story like I said started off okay , but got dull and the fighting in the end is a pain too as it becomes almost impossible to level up in the later stages of the game by fighting as you must rely mainly on doing favors for characters to get large boosts of experience which that is fine , but it makes fighting needless in the end . The ending is also weak as the credits can be accessed anytime you want on the main menu and the actual ending itself last all of a minute .
Apparently the authorities in the county refuse to drag the lake for any reason .	Yes , this movie pits Jason against a gal with telekinetic powers . Kind of a Jason v . Carrie scenario . In fact , from Friday the 13th 7 to Jason X , all the Fridays have been basically what if movies . This is what if Jason fought Carrie , the next is what if Jason went to New York , the one after that what if Jason was a body snatching alien , and finally what if Jason was in space . This one just isn't very good at all . Then again I am not the biggest fan of the series . I thought 3 , 4 , and 6 were pretty good , but most of the others aren't very fun to watch . Here somehow the telekinetic girl raises Jason out of the lake where he was chained up in part six . Apparently the authorities didn't feel like taking the body out of the rather small lake . They apparently have a history of not taking bodies out though as this gal's dad is in there too ( this is who the girl wanted to revive ) . There are some killings and finally a showdown between the girl and Jason with a really lame conclusion .
This one adds a new twist to Alien rip-offs .	This movie is basically an " Alien " rip-off for the most part , but it does have some differences . This one has an alien kill some people and rape a woman then it is no more . What the heck ? Is this one of the shortest movies ever ? No , the woman who was raped is now carrying alien offspring and she must feed her little critters blood . There was a movie made later that had just about the same concept only it was set on earth and in modern times . This one is set in space and boy they do not really follow science at all in this one . Still though it is better than some Alien clones , but it is still not all that great . For the most part , in fact , it is pretty bad . However , it is watchable at least . I have only seen the cut version , I would imagine the only thing that was cut down was the rape scene because I don't remember all that much . The kills are pretty standard and the ending is fairly predictable if you are a horror fan . Another movie this reminds me of , but just a bit , is " The Beast Within " . That one had a woman raped in it to and she carried the child though that one was a lot better done than this .
Ironically , the producer of MST3000 made a pretty bad movie himself .	It is kind of funny that someone who would later be one of the forces behind a television show that made fun of bad movies would have one on his resume . Not that it is all bad , for a Troma movie it does have its moments . This one is not as goofy as a lot of Troma movies get , in fact it is one of the more straight horror movies I have seen from them . The only thing odd is that people are being killed with a fish hook and reeled in like fish . And no the people are not being killed by a giant fish ( though that would have been rather good ) . This one instead is a basic slasher with the mode of death being the only real unique touch to it . Unlike newer Troma movies this one is a real movie too . They had a movie advertised on my copy of this called " Tales from the Crapper " and it basically looked like a tape of Girls Gone Wild . So this one looks great by comparison . Like a lot of slashers you don't know who the killer is and they try to fool you , but in this case once you know the killer the movie goes on a bit too long after . It runs about 10 minutes more than it should . Though this is not a cinematic classic it is not all bad especially considering it is a Troma picture .
Needed a bit more development . . .	and maybe more nudity too ! Ha , yes I am a bit of a pervert so I am not going to be the type of person to act like I accidentally stumbled upon this movie and was shocked to see it was basically animated porn . I saw the cover and I was hoping it was . The three main gals are cute and you get to see a bit of nudity too . You also get a very underdeveloped story , a crappy looking monster , and not enough girls enjoying themselves if you know what I mean . There is maybe one sort of decent sex scene in the flick , for the most part though the girls in this one are not enjoying the sex which is not what I want to see . I like to see girls having fun . I mean the last scenes involving the monster where it goes crazy is just to much . The story could not save the day either as it is to short and rushed . Basically , people steal this strange artificially created monster that likes sex and three cute female agents must track it down . Why the hell the person created it to like sex is beyond me , seems he could have easily not done that . So there you have it , I like hentais , but this one just is not the type I like . I want to see girls nude having sex that they are enjoying and basically in this one they are not .
Not the best J-horror movie , just to many incomprehensible plot points and going's on .	Seemed interesting enough to start , but I quickly became lost as the plot goes from one set of characters ( greenhouse workers ) to another ( the dude who was just starting to play with the computer and the computer major ) . Apparently , people are committing suicide for reasons that really aren't making much sense at all . There is a also ghosts popping up and a theory on them and then the suicides still don't make much sense . There is some commentary on isolation in modern society due to the internet , which could be the main problem for me . I am not one to be scared at the prospect of being alone , I in fact thrive on it as I just don't care for people that much anyway so that removes the main fear causer of the film for me so therefore it is destined to be disappointing . Still , it could have worked had a couple of points been fleshed out a bit more . One minute a dude is looking on a website and it mentions the forbidden room the next thing you know he is there at one of these rooms that are not explained at all ( well I couldn't pick up on anything that explained their reason in the movie ) . Anyone who goes in to these rooms seems destined to die , if they in fact look at the disturbing things there ( well it isn't that disturbing really ) . There is a rather good scene where a couple is driving through a dying and deserted city , but once again why were they doing this ? I don't see what drove them to suicide even factoring in the loneliness theme . Just to much left unexplained , I like some mystery , but the point of a movie is to tell a story and this one does not do that very well for me . I do wonder if the red tape on the forbidden room was kind of taken from a Japanese short called " Crevices " or vise versa ? Now that little short didn't explain anything either , but it was more effective than this movie in presenting itself .
The bitch may be back , but it sure is boring .	This is by far my least favorite entry into the Alien franchise and that includes " Alien vs Predator " . There is nothing new or innovative about this installment except for the fact that the alien is mixed with a dog or something . Lets just say this one plays out like the first one , but it is not as involving or as interesting . Weaver goes through the motions and that is the shame because she is the only actor you will recognize here with the exception of Lance . The story , Ripley lands on a space prison , alien tagged along , it starts killing , and the startling revelation why said alien will not kill her . Of course evil people want to use the alien again for weapon purposes . Why ? Who knows , but I think it would be obvious by this time that the aliens are simply killing machines , and they are incapable of being trained . The ending is the lone bright spot here , but I was bored out of my mind by the time it rolled around . I can't believe this one ranks higher than four , which by admission is a bit goofy at times , but it is a much faster ride than this slow plodded yawn fest .
Misleading title .	The title of this flick leads me to picture thousands of zombies rampaging the countryside . That is not what you get . In fact I don't think anyone was even killed by a zombie , though one zombie got killed in a cool way . The main killers are cannibals in this one . Zombies play an extremely small part . It is kinda liked zombi , because two of the actors in that one are in here , and they appear to be on the exact same island , but it just isn't much of a zombie flick . If you like cannibal flicks it might be worth checking just be aware about the lack of zombies . Thought of note is that you get to see a very attractive blonde nude .
The cover art for the DVD was the highlight of this light frothy fright movie .	Yes , what the DVD cover depicts and the title of the movie are not very accurate as to what this movie is about . Still it did keep me guessing until the end where I just said to myself " what " ? The movie has a reunion of a bunch of idiot waste of spacers , the people who in high school and college thought they were all that because they drank lots and lots of booze and cheat on their " loved " ones repeatedly . Ah yes , how I wanted them all dead right from the get go . This feeling of wanting them dead only increased as they talked and talked and talked , if Leatherface had shown up with his chainsaw I would have been pulling for him . . . the only character I liked was the younger girlfriend of one of the aforementioned losers who did not want to be there at the extremely boring yet tense reunion and I don't blame her a bit . Well the wild weekend turns really cool when they decide to play a game of Dead Mary , I am guessing because there was already a movie called bloody Mary . Well they play and from the rest of the movie on I am wondering if there was a point to the game dead Mary and if there was a reason to name the movie this . I don't know what happened after that as there was no rules established , no plot established and whatever was killing people was not established . Not that it was all bad , there was a lot of paranoia horror to go around and some good kills as well . . . along with that , however , there were also a lot of conjecture scenes and pointless plot points too ( hey where is that Ted guy anyway ? ) . So all in all this just was not to good of a movie , however not all bad either . At least it was well made and stuff , I have seen a couple of movies recently where you couldn't even say that . So watch out for Dead Mary ! ! ! Though she isn't in this film much .
A camping trip gone bad !	What happens when you send three student film makers into the woods to shoot a documentry about a witch ? Well somehow they manage to get lost when the road can't be more than a mile away if that much . Perhaps , they should have taken some outdoor survival classes , because these clowns would probably get lost in someone's backyard . And guess what ? We get to watch them complain , moan , and groan almost the entire movie and it is supposed to be scary . During all this they are been stalked by an unseen force or something , which is probably just someone camping who is sick of hearing them yell , scream , and cuss each other out . This force does scary things like shake the tent and make barely audible noises in the distance . It also makes arts and crafts and displays them . . . Oh how scary ! Meanwhile , our " woodsman " keep walking around in circles like idiots instead of following the river which would have prevented them from going around in circles . This movie could have been really good . The beginning was alright where they interviewed those people and before they yelled at each other constantly , and the end was alright too . The middle , though , did not have enough in it . There should have been more hints at what might be out there . You don't have to show it so everyone knows what it is , but perhaps give peeks at something in the darkness . Hear noises that are a bit more distinct . This movie had potential , but wasted to much time showing the three argue .
The worst of the undersea trio .	This was the year of the underwater adventure / horror movie . I think both " The Abyss " and " Leviathan " came out this year . This is the one I liked the least of the three . Not that I was all that crazy about the other two . This one had the underwater research facility like the other two , but this one had some strange monster unleashed , unlike them . Leviathan had a sort of mutating beast that came from a sub and " The Abyss " did not have any sort of monster at all . The problem with this one is that it is a very slow mover and the monster which the previews made it seem like it was the main attraction ( as does the tagline ) at times just does not factor into the equation . Of course this movie has its highlights , like when the dude goes up in the escape pod without being decompressed , but all in all this just was not too good of a movie . The problem with all three of the underwater movies is that they all seemed to be missing something . They should have pulled their talents and made one movie .
What curse ?	I am surprised more people have not voted for this movie . It came on HBO a number of times back in the day . I caught there one night and decided to watch it . Nothing much really to it . I saw most of the first movie and have to say these two share very little in common except for the fact neither of them are really curses . Since when is getting bitten by a snake a curse ? Just makes no sense . Actually this movie could be a sequel to the movie " SSSSSS " ( yes , there is a movie by that title ) , because in this one as in that one there is the gradual transformation throughout the movie . Only here it is done a bit more graphically than it was in the other one . As it is though I did not care for it all that much . There just wasn't enough to it for my tastes . I am not a fan of the movies where someone is basically transforming throughout the whole movie . Though there are some interesting scenes that are worth checking out . The scene where the guy puts the moves on the girl is kind of sleazy , but good . Disturbing too , as later you find out what is beneath those bandages . The ending is somewhat good too , all in all though it may be worth checking out if you ever see it ; I just wouldn't put much effort into finding it .
Nice idea , but kind of a mess .	This movie had to have had a very miniscule budget , because it looks very poor . Everything in this one looks very shoddy , it doesn't help that the company that put this one on dvd looks like they got a copy of this movie on vhs back when tapes first came out and just transferred it to dvd without making any improvements , or cleaning it up . The story could have been interesting , but it really falls apart in the end with a very long flashback scene that is very poorly done . The end also is kind of confusing as I was wondering about this and that . You will know who committed the murders , but you won't know a couple of the other details . On the plus side this one moves very fast and is relatively short . John Carradine is in this one , in a rather small role . For some reason he doesn't talk and only rings a bell or writes on a pad to tell people stuff . This is a waste as Carradine has a very distinguished voice . The Christmas decorations here and there don't look very good either , as they look like they were just draped here and there without much thought as to where they would go . All in all , I won't say stay away from this one , just don't expect too much .
Wasn't there a band named Slayer ?	I suggest that in the future , any movie made by the Sci fi channel and subsequently released on DVD must say that it was indeed made by such channel as I would not buy this stuff if I had known this fact . Not that this was all bad , but when you have fade out for commercials in the middle of your movie it just ruins the flow of said film . This in turn makes the movie rather more boring . This one had an interesting story however the light hearted and extremely generic soundtrack distracted one from the film as did most of the bad actors with the exception of Dien and Linda Carter . The story , vampires are on the attack in South America , of course the rules of vampire movies are not in effect , which the usually aren't in any of the movies about vampires I have seen lately with the exception of the Blade trilogy . Group of soldiers are sent down to battle said squad another team is sent to meet up with the team and to track down the ex wife of one of the soldiers . . . why she is not just his wife , who knows as this part of the plot really goes no where . Still we get an interesting boat ride some nice jungle scenery and a lot of blood . This fact , however , does not save the film from being way to jerky in its presentation and really dull seeming at times . I don't know maybe it was the cgi blood , and smoke and whatever they have to make cgi now even though old effects look better and don't cost that much more . I mean cheap Italian zombie movies could do a bullet hole without cgi why can't we now ?
The Rubick's Cube from Hell .	I am not the biggest fan of the Hellraiser series . . . in fact I am not a fan at all . Somewhat interesting , in the end I find them to be a bit over done in areas and under done in others . Sometimes it is over the top , and at other times it is kind of boring . The story has this guy solving a puzzle box and when you solve the puzzle box you get chains through your body , then you are ripped apart . This seems to me to be like more of a disincentive to full around with the box , but that doesn't seem to stop anyone in the series . The guy is later resurrected and has to kill and suck blood ( not in the way a vampire does ) . He is helped by his brother's wife as they are lovers . Nothing to unpredictable about where all this leads . Meanwhile , the daughter of the husband ( I don't think the wife is her mother ) accidentally solves the puzzle box and here comes Pinhead who is in the movie very little . Considering he was on the poster and he is what everyone remembers his screen time amounts to maybe five or ten minutes . All in all a bit of a twisted horror that might appeal to you , but I actually liked the sequels a bit more . Though not by much .
If Spider-man's arch villain became a homicidal killer .	Yes , this movie has a man executed and returned as the Sandman a supernatural killer that does in fact have about the same powers as the villain from the Spidey comic books . He must kill now and his main target is his younger brother . Creepy music played , strange truths revealed near the end , and lots of sand and not all that much gore . In fact , he does kill his victims in rather different ways from other movie slasher / monsters . The movie has some good in it , with that it has just to much bad . The whole using sand to kill gets old and is a bit lame , sand is just not all that scary . Well unless of course you are in the desert and in the middle of a sandstorm . There are some interesting plot points , and there is one kill that occurs near the end that makes one who watches this type of movie go " that is not supposed to happen " . They try to kill the sandman in differing ways , one of those ways backfires and leads to the death above . I do not know , I think they had an interesting concept going for them , but maybe they needed to do something with the killer perhaps making him more of a supernatural slasher who turned to sand only to get to his victims and not as a means to kill them . I mean that one scene involving that girl in the bed was really over the top .
A bit dull for the most part .	You can tell this one is a TV movie in that you don't see a whole lot of blood or anything . The story is pretty sad as a mentally retarded man is accused of hurting a little girl . . . which turns out not to be the case and this idiots who are not police go looking for him . The police could have prevented what happened next by locking the mentally retarded person up till they questioned the girl , but that wouldn't have made for much of a movie . The rednecks go to where he lives and find him hiding in the fields dressed as a scarecrow and they proceed to kill him even though he didn't make a move . They get over in the trial cause they have connections and then they proceed to be killed one by one . Predictable and a bit to slow paced , but watchable .
Almost two movies .	This had potential , but in the end it is just not all that good . This is like two movies though . In movie 1 these bugs come out of the ground after an earthquake . They have the ability to start fires and stuff like that . Some guy's wife is killed by the killer bugs fire ability and this ticks him off . The bugs actually start to die off as they aren't used to the pressure and they just explode . This starts movie 2 which finds the guy whose wife is killed hanging on to one of the bugs and using some pressure thing to keep it alive . He proceeds to mate it with an everyday bug and makes mutant bugs . Why you ask ? Cause he can . The bugs are for reasons unknown seem to be intelligent . The ending to this one is pretty weird too . All in all it would have been better with more deaths or something , as is it isn't anything special .
Another pointless movie .	This movie almost plays as a sequel as whoever wrote it seems to think you should know what is going on so he isn't going to take the time to explain it . The " plot " and I am using the term loosely is I am guessing a bunch of rich people in corporations make bets based on two guys fighting to the death . Sounds simple enough , but wait . . . somehow one of the warriors is able to come back from the dead . How ? Who knows . . . it has something to do with this gal who I think was some kind of sorceress . This is never really touched upon much , but hey she is cute and I think that is why she is stuck in this one . Nothing much to be said for the fighting as it involves Robert Z'Dar and some other guy . When I first saw this movie I only caught the end and wondered why the heck Z'Dar was dressed as a knight and he was going around killing people ( his character goes berserk or something and starts killing more than just the guy he is fighting ) . I thought this was some movie about time travel , which would have been better than what it was really about . You occasionally flash to these board members watching the fight and other stuff . . . it does have a rather catchy tune to it and it is rather short so it wasn't all bad . As I have said though it plays like a sequel to something .
Not a parody , but more of a reenactment of " Jaws " .	This movie is basically a parody of " Jaws " . It took me a bit to get it , but once they strung up the lawn mower I finally got it . I realized they were doing " Jaws " before then , but not until that moment did I realize it was almost purely a " Jaws " parody . The problem , it takes itself a bit too seriously for a parody . That is why I say it is more of a reenactment where instead of an ocean they use a golf course , instead of a shark you have a lawn mower , and so on . For some scenes this works and I chuckled a couple of times , at other times there are long stretches of dialogue that just do not belong in a parody movie or a Troma movie for that matter . Still , this is a company known for its bad movies , and this one is better than a lot of the movies I have seen from them . I just wonder why they and Full Moon Entertainment have to always make horror comedy movies rather than straight horror . Seems to me a straight horror would be easier to make because lets face it most of the movies that come out of these two companies get really low scores . Though to be fair Full Moon has done a few straight horror movies in their day . I have never seen one from Troma . This one has its moments especially the scenes in the van where they were really spoofing " Jaws " in this case I think they just needed to make this one a bit funnier .
Had potential .	This movie could have been a lot better . . . it had the potential to be , but ultimately I found it a tad weak . It is pg-13 so it never really gets to horrific . The story revolves around a tree that is pulled up and the hole is covered up . Two boys dig in and find a geode . Through a set of strange coincidences they actually perform a bunch of acts that when done all together open the gate to hell . The other main character is the main boy's sister and both he and she like firing rocket fire works and this is emphasized way too much in this one . There is a party and a sleep over that goes wrong as the minions of hell are released as little demons . The highlight in this one is where the zombie construction worker falls down . All in all this one could have been good if they had gone for an r rating and maybe explained a few plot points , but as it is it isn't very good . Though it is very tolerable to watch because of a very short running time .
Played both the genesis version and sega cd version . Both had good / bad .	Yes , both have the same premise . . . the Kingpin has framed Spider-Man , making it seem he has planted a bomb in New York . Of course , he is only doing this to turn New York against Spidey so they will go after him and hopefully take care of the webslinger once and for all . In the genesis version you go through a basic progression of levels side scrolling style . Pretty straight forward , go through a level and fight a boss at the end . You have Doc Ock , Electro , the Lizard , Venom , the Sandman , Hobgoblin and the Kingpin . Each one other than Kingpin has a key that goes to the nuclear bomb and the last stage you have a big battle royal with this villains before you face off against the Kingpin . You also have a cool picture taking feature that rewards you for cool shots you take . This is sadly left out of the sega cd version which has a bit more added depth with animated cut scenes and two additional villains : The Vulture and Mysterio . The levels are also done on a map in which you have to find the villains a bit , but once you select a level it is basically the side scroller the genesis version is . The games are both rather simple , the cd version being a bit easier , however , playing them now you will notice they are both short . I won the cd version in an hour worth of time . The music is better in the genesis mode as the cd uses a horrible soundtrack . I also wish the cd version had kept the picture taking as it replaces it with a stupid collect comic books feature and if you get them all you get absolutely nothing !
Mild thriller . . . really not much on horror .	First , from the looks of things this movie was an actual theater release which is a bit surprising . It looks and feels like a made for television movie , when I first saw it on USA network I thought it was a movie they made . Second , why is it listed as a horror movie ? It is not very horrific at all . It is a rather mild thriller about a crazy paper boy who becomes really attached to this mother and daughter , so much so that he does everything in his power to make them like him . If anyone tries to warn the mother , then he deals with them . Here is a movie where you just want to beat the snot out of the stalker character ; it drives you crazy at what he gets away with . It also makes me glad I don't have a person that likes me that much . Sure some days I wish a gal would form some sort of crush on me , but then you see some of the possible results of such an unhealthy obsession . All in all though this movie is not good , and it is not bad . It is just a mediocre thriller worth a look see if you see it on the television .
Great title , mediocre movie .	This movie is a bit of a throwback to 50's science fiction horror . It involves the mad scientist performing crazy experiments . It is rather interesting , but it needed more . Not much happens except the scientist turns his poor assistant into a snake creature . As the movie goes along he slowly changes . I think the scientist's daughter falls in love with the assistant and tries to find out what her dad is up to . I am guessing this movie is really short cause from what I remember ; there really wasn't much else to it . Not too many scares and such . The ending is kind of funny though as you find out what a mongoose is best suited for . Somewhat interesting flick that just needed more depth to it . Maybe a killing or two more , anything to spice it up . The movie does have a good title though , very original .
Rather dull sequel to Nightmare .	It had its moments for the most part , but in the end it was a rather dull movie . It did have Freddy act dark and scary still , unlike later episodes where he was a comedian , but alas he wasn't in this one all that much . What gets me is that this movie is said to have a lot of gay elements . Really ? I only saw the movie a few times as a kid so I guess I couldn't pick them up , so I can't really comment on them . Though I do remember the main character Jesse had a girlfriend who tries to save him . The trouble I had with this movie as a kid is that it is a bit boring as there aren't many dream sequences in this one and it isn't as menacing as the first one . What passes for horror here . . . a bird escaping and going crazy ? No , this one just doesn't have the style and atmosphere the first one did . The only real dream sequence that was even memorable was the first one in the bus . It may be worth a look , but I won't recommend it .
Okay to some degree , but some of those brain teasers made me want to pierce the ds with the stylus .	Yes , for the most part all this game consists of is you going up to a person and them giving you a random brain teaser . Nothing all that special about it , the teasers range from rather easy to insanely difficult . So you feel really smart and accomplished one moment and the next you feel like a moron . To much of the game is just a repeat of this process with the brain teasers just coming out of no where not really having a bearing on what you are doing to solve the case . You are just handed a random puzzle out of the blue , I was thinking they would be incorporated more in solving the case and be relevant to what you were doing . So what is the story ? Professor Layton is summoned to a mysterious village to sort the details of the passing of a wealthy man there . Apparently , the man who passed left something of extreme value in the town and some of his family wishes for him to find it as it seems to be only findable when you figure out random clues scattered through the town . So there you have it , actually the story is a highpoint as I wanted to know the secret of the town and the mysterious tower in the middle of town . I kind of suspected something was up with the townsfolk , however the end of the game was a bit of a surprise . This game would have been more fun though had they incorporated brain teasers into the town where they were relevant to what you were doing .
Rather engaging horror movie , until the end that is . . .	This movie had a rather quick setup of a group of people going caving and then the movie was a rather claustrophobic thrill ride as people were being killed in rather grisly ways . Then came the ending and I said to myself " well that sucked " . I mean the ending made little sense to me , not that it was confusing or anything like that . . . made perfect sense as they showed flashbacks and everything . Still it undermined everything that was shown up to that point , I mean I was really expecting the thing doing the killing to be the actual cave itself and quite frankly that would have been cool as hell , a nearly inescapable situation to put our poor victims in . I mean if the movie ended with the apparent death scene right before the actual end and then something to show the cave was itself alive then yeah that would have made for a very good movie . Instead I was left saying to myself , that doesn't explain them going in a nearly impossible circle , the strange flickering of their lights , the fact bullets didn't stop the whatever . Then there is the stupid pointless flashbacks of a tragic cave event of two years past that does not really factor into anything at all in the end . Like I said this movie just has an ending for my money it just did not work at all . To bad too , because up to that point I thought it was rather good .
Could have been better , but it had its moments .	Not all that good or bad this film suffers from a plot that could have went somewhere , but instead gets rather stale . The story of a mother and son who have a strange secret ( they are some sort of monster ) come to a new town where they must find someone to feed upon . This mother and son do have a nemesis though , a rather strange nemesis considering what the mother and son look like in their more natural form . Well the son soon finds a girl and he sort of falls for her as she seems to understand his plight . This leads to this and that and a confrontation with a police officer and another at a cemetery . Then the final confrontation and you will notice not really all that much is developed during this time . Sure you get an interesting kill or two , but for the most part the only thing keeping the movie afloat is Alice Krige's acting ability . She does the psycho loving creature very well here . So the movie does go by fast , but for a new monster to be introduced it isn't really fleshed out all that much except of course for the very bizarre weakness .
Sci Fi meets fantasy . . .	And the result is kind of dull . This movie has its moments , but only after long streches of nothing really happening . The end fight in the evil guys castle is alright , but the end fight between the monster and the hero is very anticlimatic . This movie really needs some time cut from it and maybe a bit more action . Like I said it has some good parts , but not enough to really reccomend it unless you want to see a sci-fi and fantasy hybrid . The actors aren't very good either , but you do get to see Liam Neeson .
It was okay , but I don't think I would ever want to see it again .	There really is not much horror in this movie and for the most part it is more drama than anything else . A bit of a drama with some supernatural elements added in . I wanted to see a horror so maybe I am being harder on the movie than I normally would . The movie does make you wonder what angle it is going to use and it keeps you guessing throughout . Is the movie going to turn into a horror about some strange monster ? Is the movie going the " Deliverance " rout ? Or is this movie sort of a " Legend of Boggy Creek " type movie ? Turns out it is a little of this and a little of that . It makes for rather good viewing the first time , but once you have seen it there is no reason to see it again . For the first part of the movie it is mainly like watching your average family vacation gone badly as the vacationers have a run in with a surly hunter . Then they through in some weird dream sequences for the kid and the mysterious showing us photos of this and that . In the end it starts to become fairly predictable and a bit to sad for my tastes . . . All that is left in the end is a shot of a truck being towed , still not sure what the significance of that was . Worth one look , but that is enough .
Never make another Bond flick Warner Bros .	This is by far my least favorite Bond movie . It is not Sean Connery's fault , however . He does a great job and seems quite enthuised in this one more than he was in " Diamonds are Forever " . In fact he is the only thing that makes the movie tolerable . What is wrong with the pic you ask ? To much to list , but for starters the plot is basically a rip-off of " Thunderball " nothing new here . Bond at one point actually plays video games with the bad guy . . . I like video games myself , but I don't see James Bond playing them . The other actors in this one are quite simply bad including Kim Basinger . There is more stuff , but like I said the only really good thing about this movie is Connery , but one other thing . . . this is the only Bond movie where I have gotten bored and wished it would end .
It just seems wrong Richard Kiel wasn't the loner guy everyone spread rumors about and was scared of .	Just your typical summer camp movie that follows the basic formula of a little romance , a few troubled youths , and some sort of friendly competition near the end . Well not all that friendly as one team tries to rig one of the events in a very unfair and mean spirited way . I would try to talk about the plot more , but it has been forever since I saw this movie as a kid . I figured I would review it though as I am not really keen on tracking this movie down and seeing it again . From what I remember though it is a better summer camp movie than say Meatballs 2 , but not as good as the original or as different as say white water summer or that kind of creepy one where the kids take over the camp and everything goes berserk . What you basically get is the same old clichés and story lines . The only other parts that stand out other than the boy who learns how to do the backstroke is the story of the man who lives by himself in a cabin and has what appears to be blood on his hatchet .
Okay , so we are going to ignore the fact that both Myers and Loomis burned to death .	An almost good sequel , that falls prey to many wtf moments and the fact that this sequel just shouldn't have been made . With Halloween you have part 1 and 2 , which go together . 3 isn't really related to the series much at all , then you can pick your sequels . Either 4 , 5 , and 6 . . . or you can choose 7 , 8 , and soon to be 9 as the sequels as your choice . My choice is neither , I will always think of part 2 as the end of Myers and Loomis , if you saw the way Myers was killed and the fact the flames burned his face so bad you could make out his skull then you would consider him dead too . That and his eyes were shot out . People , though , just loved Myers as a killer too much so they brought him back in a sequel that almost works . Myers eyes are never explained , I mean they would transplant eyes onto a comatose serial killer would they ? However , both he and the good doctor Loomis played by Donald Pleasance who is a bright spot in this movie have some minor burns . Both were engulfed in flames , but they only have simple scars from the flames here and there . This time Myers is going after his niece , and man the girl who is playing her is awful and she doesn't improve in the next installment . Myers goes on a rampage killing people while Loomis tracks him down . Nothing new or original and for some reason I just don't get the Halloween vibe I got from the first two . In the first two the trick or treaters seemed real , here it all seems to set up . As for the wtf moments , one occurs when the niece and her sister ( apparently the niece was adopted after her mother was killed in a wreck and that would have been the Jamie Lee Curtis character ) are on a roof . Myers is up there too , and the girls fall off , less than 5 seconds later Myers is on the ground again coming from behind the house . How the heck did he get down so fast ? Were there stairs behind the house ? The next moment is when they are on a truck with a posse heading for the state police headquarters . Somehow Myers comes from underneath the truck and starts killing . This is impossible as a scene earlier clearly showed no one was under the truck . There are a couple more of these moments . However , this one has its moments and it to me is a better sequel than any that came after it including the H2O one .
CGI and horror just don't mix .	I like CGI . . . I think it has its place in movies . Some people say the Hulk will have too much CGI , but I say it is the type of movie that should . Horror , however , should not have too much . . . or any at all when possible . This one starts out promising enough as we are introduced to the characters . . . though the situation the one woman was in was a tad ridiculous ( that kid , you know who ) . Then you get to look over the house then promptly two of the characters leave . . . leaving less fodder to be killed . Then again this is a haunted house movie so that is ok . Neeson , Wilson , Jones , and Taylor do all right at the beginning . Then the cgi nightmare begins as every scare is like a cgi statue that anyone who isn't blind can tell is not really there . Of course the scene with the fireplace with the skeleton is the only scene that made anyone scream out in the theater I was in , and the later scene with Owen Wilson and the fireplace was also pretty good . The conclusion , though , is one big cgi effect .
Not good , but could have been worse .	For what it is worth I can watch this movie , and at least not be bored . I saw this one on the sci-fi channel and it had its moments and it is a lot better than the stuff they play on that channel these days . You know the stuff , the stupid computer animated sea creature that attacks and someone like Dean Cain must stop it . This one is sort of a horror version of 2001 , not that I am comparing the two , but both feature crazed computers . I think this one is based on a book also , but I have never read it so I can't really say if it follows along with the book for the most part or that it makes drastic changes . This movie has this group chartering a spaceship to find something or other , I can't remember what . The ship is run by this guy who seems to have been in space his whole life so he doesn't take to gravity real well . The computer is like his mother or something and it fears that this group is going to take the son away and so it starts a killing spree . I saw a preview of this and the preview made it look a lot scarier than what I saw . On the other hand it did provide a nice distraction for a while and a few interesting kills as well .
It is the father of zombie movies , but this is a very slow moving horror movie .	You have to give it props for being the first of the zombie movies of this type , but I find it by far the weakest in Romero's dead series . The problem , it is very bottom heavy . . . nearly all the chomping action is at the end of the film and the rest of the film is just arguing and nailing boards over windows and doors . I did not find this movie had all that much social commentary in it , lets face it the guy was wrong holding up in the cellar was the smart move to make . . . just not holding up in the cellar and sneaking around when help finally arrived . Still it is not all bad as the zombie attack at the end was good and it was rather bloody for a film of its time and you have to know Romero did not have much of a budget so he did the best he could with what he had . Also , if it were not for this movie other zombie movies including the much more superior Dawn might not have been made . Still you can tell it is his first effort and the rules for zombies had not yet been established as sometimes they run here , but most of the time they are slow . In the end there is good and bad , I actually prefer the remake in 1990 to the original version , much better actors and effects in that one .
Not much of a surprise here , but I liked the book better .	Granted I was not all that wild about the novel in this case , however I still prefer it over this movie made by one of the master's of horror George Romero . Not all of the problems I had with the flick though are the source material or anything that George could have done differently . From what I understand , the company behind this movie went bankrupt so parts of this movie are underdeveloped and the music in the last third of the film is just looped music from the first two thirds of the film . So what is this film about ? Well a writer who writes under two names has essentially revealed and buried his alter ego named Stark . A guy who writes a bit more violently than the other half . Well something happens and the alter ego seemingly comes to life and begins to stalk the writer and kill those who get in his way . Meanwhile , the writer learns things relevant to the fictional Stark taking on a life of his own . As for following the book this film does rather well , unfortunately the book is not the greatest so the film being not quite up to the book becomes not good or bad . You will see when watching this film it is a lot like other stories in Stephen King's collection as it mirrors to some extent " The Shining " and " Secret Window " as you will find common themes of people with duel personalities .
Somewhat good , somewhat bad .	This movie is about a nerdy guy and his beautiful girlfriend with either two friends , or the gal's parents . I wasn't sure . Anyway , their boat gets hung up in the rocks and the older lady gets her leg stuck so the nerdy guy and his gal go in a raft and head for this town . In town are a lot of pale people who seem to resemble fish , but they are seemingly helpful at first . The gal gets kidnapped and the strange people for most of the flick chase around the nerd . There is also this drunken guy who was hard for me to understand so I had to click on the subtitles . This movie had its moments where it was good , and then it had its moments where it wasn't . Could have been better and there was a bit of a twist ending to it , but there was also a very badly done cgi monster . The nerdy guy also gets on your nerves , especially at the beginning , but you get used to him . This movie could have used some more people getting killed , but there is a fair amount of gore and stuff . Though I can't say for sure as I had seen this on the Sci-Fi channel . All in all it is worth checking out if you got nothing better to do .
More of a spoof of Psycho .	This movies cover leads you to believe that it is a spoof of Silence of the Lambs , but the movie itself is more of a spoof of Psycho . It has a few good jokes here and there , but for the most part it is the same old gags . That is the case with most spoofs though , dumb joke after dumb joke with a gem scattered here and there . Dom Deleuise plays the Hannibal type character and that is one of the mistakes of the movie . This may be a spoof , but you still need someone with a Hopkins like demeanor . The guy who did Hannibal in " Loaded Weapon 1 " was much better . Billy Zane is okay in his role as Joe Dee Foster and there are some others who do all right as well . Though it seems that every spoof has to have a cameo by someone who isn't and never has been a real star . Usually , it is Hulk Hogan or Dr . Joyce Brothers . . . in this one it is Rip Taylor and Bubba Smith . Is there some rule that says you have to have a cameo from one of these people if you are making a spoof ? Though I thought the one scene with John Astin running up behind Billy in the bowling alley was funny . . . I don't know why .
The dangers of drinking the worm in tequilla graphically displayed .	This sequel was okay at the theater when I saw it , but it wasn't great . Kind of an average film that adds plot points that really are a bit weak . We find out in this one that it was not necessarily the fact the little community was sitting on an old cemetery that was the problem in the first one , but rather that the house was over some burial ground of a cult . There is also this really old man that is a bit creepy wandering around looking for Carol Anne and the Freeling clan . I just think they wanted to add a more physical enemy , someone you could focus on . The family is now living with grandma , but strange stuff starts happening again . For some reason they want Carol Anne . An Indian guy comes to their aid and gives them advice and there are a series of happenings , but this one just isn't as good as the first one as it is very slow in places . The ending was just plain lame and only makes this one worse than it is . As not good as this is though , the next Poltergeist makes this one look a lot better . Some good scenes here and there , but ultimately this one disappoints . Though there is that memorable scene with the worm .
Slow moving in places , but it has some good qualities .	I have seen this movie w / o MST3000 and with it and have to say it isn't all that bad a flick , though I still laughed at Mike and the bots jokes . The good about this flick are that the monster looks pretty good . There is a scene where Gorgo is being transported through London that looks especially good and the finale with the mom monster destroying London looks pretty good as well . It is to bad the rest of the movie is extremely slow moving . The story is about two salvagers who find a monster and take it to London to exploit . . . it is a combo of king kong and godzilla . If they could have picked up the pace in areas this one could have been real good . Well anyway the monster they bring to London is just a baby and mom comes looking for it . This sets up a lot of stock footage naval battles with the beast before finally arriving in London where the movie finally picks up the pace . Along the way to the end though there are a couple of pointless plot points like this kid going with the army and the two salvagers try to get him back . . . this scene could have been left out entirely . And what is with the kid , he actually seems to enjoy the fact people all around him are getting killed by the beast Gorgo .
A hard movie to comment on that is for sure .	Let me first say this movie did a good job with its DVD box . Never before had the back of a DVD's explanation of the movie been more ambiguous than the one I read on the back of " Bug " . In fact , it made me want to buy the movie , a nice change of pace from some horror movies that literally spell out or spoil the plot of a movie with the explanation or one of the pictures on the back . Kind of like how the " Messengers " did with the picture of the obvious villain . Now on to the movie , it had its moments , and it reeled you in with the fact I honestly did not know where it was going , but then it kind of falls apart as it goes in a direction and it does not offer any more surprises or sudden shifts . However , the performances are very good and it did keep my attention , just not the type of movie I want to have bought , it would have been a better rental . The story , a woman who is living a quaint life of desperation and fear is introduced to a rather unique individual . A man who has his strange way of doing things , but seems to be a generally nice fellow . She also has an abusive ex who is out of prison and causing her life hell again . Then lets just say it gets a little crazy , I can not go into anymore detail without spoiling something . There are a couple of rather gruesome scenes , but not to much . You are mostly watching a character driven movie that for me just needed one more twist to have gotten one or two more points . Just be prepared to be a tad confused at first , and be prepared for a rather slow startup . However , it is somewhat interesting .
It has some good deaths and gore , but there is to much story going on here .	I never saw Suspiria all the way through , from beginning to end , only a little here and there . From where I start watching though I can enjoy what I do see as there was a lot of strange imagery going on . I recently bought Inferno and watched it all the way through . What I saw is a movie that did not really say a lot , but it showed a lot of nice visuals and such . This movie , however , instead of taking that route goes on an insane explain everything type of approach . This kills the flow of the movie and makes it stumble unlike how the first two movies moved along . The plot , well there is a lot of it , has a mysterious coffin found with what they call an urn on it . Though I always pictured urns as looking more like vases this one is more of a chest . Well this urn is supposed to be looked at and observed by this one gentleman , instead it is opened by these two gals and shortly after a really nice gory kill falls into the hands of the mother of tears , the cruelest of the three mothers . Which I could have sworn in Inferno they said Mother Tenbre was the most cruel , but whatever I can role with it . Well soon after the city of Rome , where the film takes place , sees an epidemic of violence and roving bands of gals from the 80's whose dialog seems off track and random . Well our heroine who opened the case with a friend soon becomes a target and we learn her story , a cool kill on a train and a cool killing of a dude with a cleaver and a couple of other cool killings later we have our heroine meet some random guy at the place of final showdown . Well I know the random guy is a cop that had been looking for her , just seemed odd he figured so much in the end considering up to that point the police seemed somewhat pointless and not very developed . So there you have it , thanks to the cool kills and nice booby shots the movie is watchable , it just does not compare to the other two movies of this trilogy . Seems the old saying less is more rings true here as they spend way to much time trying to explain stuff . I also found it funny how at one point this alchemist and his assistant laugh at the girls claim of wanting to kill the mother of tears like it would be hard or something . I mean the other two went down fairly easily .
Godzilla and a robot join forces .	As a kid , I loved this entry to the Godzilla franchise . . . now I look back and see how bad it was . The story is about an underwater kingdom who send a monster called Megalon to destroy earth . For some reason they need a stupid robot to guide Megalon so they take this guy who lives with another guy and his brother in this really strange house where air conditioners hang from chains . Gigan joins the team later and the robot somehow gets big and fights the two monsters and then finally Godzilla shows up for the big rumble .
Don't be fooled by the credits , Lee is not the main star in this one .	This movie would lead you to believe that Christopher Lee is the main star , but he is not in it all that much . He is in this one more than he was in " Scream and Scream Again " , but for most of his scenes he is wearing a hood . This movie was sort of good , sort of bad . The opening of the movie was messed up on the copy I got as scenes skipped here and there and the sound was messed up too , but as the movie went along it got better . This movie first shows a complicated armored truck robbery in to much detail . It then shifted to the circus where the police tracked some of the money . In the circus we meet all sorts of strange characters ; any number of them could be responsible for the robbery and a murder that took place on circus grounds . Of course , the movie leads you to believe this or that person committed the crime and each time they usually clear the person of the crime . Could have been better , but it could have been worse it was somewhat interesting . Has to be one of the only movies ever to end with a little person being fired .
Great tag line , but overall not all that good of a horror movie .	Bill Pullman is good in this sort of horror movie and it has its interesting moments as Pullman's character tries to track down the various mysterious presented to him . However , other than the dream sequences that are mostly confined to the beginnings of the movie this movie does not offer up that many scares . Well , it does feature a rather good buried alive scenario , but after that the movie's conclusion is rather weak and almost out of place . I did not care for the whole getting your soul back plot point . Still , it is interesting enough to watch once and only once on my part . However , the dream sequences were the best part for me , to many other scenes simply made this movie seem to drag and become overlong . You will get to see a voodoo movie and sort of zombies , but not the type you will find in a George Romero undead flick and you will see a rather dumb lion scene near the end so I say give it a look it may be a movie more in the lines of what you like than I like .
Not like the first one at all . . . but it did have a nice concluding fight .	Well the good here is that Peter Weller is back and there is a rather cool fight at the end . For those who say who does it matter who plays Robocop you must watch the next one and you can hear Robocop is just not as forceful in his voice as he is here . The fight at the end between Robocop and the other robot is rather cool to . . . though it is a bit of a throwback to claymation or stop motion at times . The story has this new drug on the streets and corrupt business is at it again . You also have Robocop briefly reunited with his wife , he also gets a bit tore up again . You have a mysterious criminal and his kid sidekick , a team working on the next Robocop , the original Robocop being reprogrammed , a police strike and do you get the feeling there is just a bit much going on here ? You also get the stupid commercials , but here they are even worse . Still , you get lots of blood and violence as this is just before the lets make every movie we can pg-13 phase that is still the plague of Hollywood . If they could have just worked on the story a bit and took out some of the elements while focusing more on the drug villains this movie could have been as good as the first . However , this edition of Robocop is a bit of a jumbled mess . Sadly though the next one would be worse as it would feature a robot ninja and a flying robocop .
The creed of the assassin must be to do the same thing over and over again .	When I first started playing this game it was rather good . I had heard that a lot of gaming magazines had given this game mediocre reviews and I could not understand why . The game was really fun right there at the beginning and then you had a huge world to ride through and towns to explore . Not to mention the graphics are simply stunning . However , the game play for me got very tiring after awhile . Had I given this game a review on the first two or three hours after I had started playing it I would have give this game a nine or ten , however , after the initial impact of the game and a few of the same missions over and over I just got sick and tired of this game and I was very happy to win this game and be done with it . Yes , this game gets very repetitive , you are in a huge world and the only things you have to do are save citizens , collect flags , and climb towers to complete your maps . Granted you can fight guards too , but this also becomes a very tedious and annoying too . You kill twenty guards sometimes and still other guards want to fight you . I mean after awhile you would think they would retreat . The story is very talky and rather boring , I got tired of hearing the master and student talk to each other . Then you get sent out on missions to kill where stealth just does not play all that important a role as one might think . The controls are also choppy as you can duck into hay to hide from soldiers , but there is a lag that sometimes gets you spotted before you leap into the hay , which is funny as other times when you are simply jumping from here to there your stupid character seems to get sucked into the hay . Fighting is also a bit lacking as all you mainly do is counter attack and quickly dispatch most of the enemies . There are no really big battles till the end and by then you just want the pain to stop as this game actually gave me headaches nearly every time I played it . Especially when I took time to save the annoying citizens who say all of four different things when you rescue them . Then you have your annoying citizens you wish you could kill , but you can not such as the begging women and the crazy people who hit you . Still , the first level which was basically a walk through was fun as it was set in some sort of run down temple underground and your mission to use logs to get rid of some soldiers was fun and made me think this game would be really special , the first assassination was fun too as was visiting my first major city . However , after I got over my initial awe I was underwhelmed by mission variety and ready for the game to end . . . and to top it all off it had a rather bad ending with generic credits and the music was nothing special either .
I thought they almost had it in this film .	Granted I did not think it was the best comedy ever , I just thought it came closest to being good since the second movie in the series . It had quite a few laughs to make me chuckle , the change of scenery was a nice change of pace too , and I was glad Guttenberg was gone . He was okay , but enough already with almost the entire cast in tow . I also thought the ending with the one guy being kidnapped was a welcome change from previous endings . However , it still needed more work , for one Bubba Smith was never my favorite character yet he gets to much focus now that Guttenberg is gone , the jokes are still repeated to much , and the franchise had way to many sequels in way to short a time span . Also , what is the deal with the typical Tackleberry joke in this one ? In the first movie they depict him shooting a cat out of a tree and here they once again have him not shoot something , but just scare it away . I just wanted to see him open fire like he did in the first movie . Still , it had a more interesting plot than the previous two sequels and more laughs , if they maybe took a couple of years to write a story and shoot the film the movie might have been a more polished less repeated jokes movie .
The conclusion is rather explosive .	This movie is about , of course , a girl who can start fires with her mind . Through a series of flashbacks we see how she came about these powers and why the government is now pursuing her . This movie features a few stars such as the title character Drew Barrymore , David Keith , George C . Scott , and Martin Sheen . Keith plays Barrymore's dad and he also has special abilities mainly consisting of a strange ability to control a persons mind . Through the first half of the film we see these two chased by this organization called " the shop " which is actually referred too in a couple of other King novels ( never read this one though ) . The second half has them captured by this organization and performing tests on Barrymore's character . For the most part this movie is very slow moving and a bit confusing . I have watched it a few times and I still am unsure of George C Scott's motivations . You see Charlie ( Barrymore ) use her powers here and there , but nothing to grand , that is until the end where the movie really ends with a bang .
Not as funny as a movie titled " Kung Fu Panda " should have been .	First , let me say my niece enjoyed the movie quite a bit . . . this was her first movie so it was a new experience for her . If I was rating the movie on her thoughts on it I would have rated it higher . However , I paid money to see this one too , and I have to say I just thought it would be funnier . Jack Black is great as the voice of the Panda as was all the cast , though I thought the five warriors were rather ignored for the most part with the Tigress one sort of stepping up a bit . The movie was just to talky for me with way to many serious moments . I will draw a parallel if I may . The first hour of Shrek had me laughing a bit and was rather good . The last half hour I did not laugh much at all and I thought it dragged down the rest of the film . This whole movie seemed more like the last half hour of Shrek rather than the first hour . It had a few cute parts here and there , but for me it just did not deliver the goods , the preview for Madagascar 2 looked better than this one . The story has a Panda who dreams of becoming a kung fu hero ending up being the chosen dragon warrior to the dismay of a master of kung fu and his students . A villain escapes and is on his way to challenge the dragon warrior and nothing to surprising happens along the way . A few chuckles to be sure in the ending fight , and scattered throughout the movie , just not enough for my tastes . However , my niece loved it so it is a good movie for kids anyway .
Underdeveloped launch game for the Playstation 2 .	It has been awhile since I have played it , but seeing all the systems being launched recently reminded me of the playstation two launch titles of which this is one . The game is a bit of an action role playing game , something like a Zelda in places , however , it is also rather short and you are left with a game that seems rushed to the finish line , like most launch games are . The most unique thing about this game was the fact when you equipped stuff on your character it would be on them in the game from shoes , to helmet to weapon . The story is a bit of a mess as I did not really get what was going on as two characters who I think are brother and sister are transported to a realm of a lost kingdom , the sister years earlier the boy is now grown up . They arrive though at the same time . So you must fight your way through this place , I think a wizard was involved and you end up completely confused . The fighting is okay , nothing ground breaking there , and for the most part your interaction with other characters is very limited , not much in the way of a role playing game in this aspect . Still it had its moments and the graphics were okay , though I am betting the playstation one could have handled it for the most part , though it would have been rougher around the edges . I can not believe there was a part two . So here and there some of it was good , and it did have some nifty music at the start screen .
Good theater movie . . . unimpressive at home .	This is one of those movies you have to see at the theater to really enjoy . The tornados on the big screen look great and the sound is effective too . You can lose your mind and just go for a thrill ride . Unfortunately when you see it on your own TV the magic is gone and you are left with a movie that has so many things wrong with it , it becomes a rather blah film . The story , storm chasers want to deploy some stupid thingies to measure a tornado from the inside . How will this help anything . . . who knows , but more power to them . The tornados look good , but it isn't like you can't see real tornados everyday on the weather channel . The scenes with the tornados though are the highlight , but the talking scenes get kind of boring after awhile . This movie runs just a bit to long and could have easily been trimmed a bit . The rival storm chasers for instance were kind of pointless and really added nothing to the film . This is a movie , unfortunately that also suffers from so many scientific flaws as well . I am no scientist , but even I had my doubts on some of the stuff . Best to have seen this one at the theater , cause that is just about the only place this movie can be really enjoyed . . . scaled down to TV it becomes rather weak .
How much is that doggy in the window , the one with the foam on its mouth .	I gave this movie a five , but I think I will change it to a four ; just thinking about it makes me remember this wasn't that great of a movie . I saw this as a kid , but it has stuck with me so that I remember a great deal about it . One thing I remember is that is kind of dull , and if I as a kid thought it was boring it probably was . Though there are shots of the mother and son trapped in the car that were rather well done so it does have quality to it . I also remember unresolved plot points such as the mother's affair . It really isn't a necessary scene ; in fact it looks like it was added to pad the film . Just like the woman who won the lottery and left with her son , two potential victims gone . In fact there aren't many kills in this one , but that is okay because they don't look very good anyway . I mean the dog is happily wagging its tail as if is supposedly killing the person . Like I said the saving grace of this movie is the scenes in the car which are very claustrophobic in nature . Also they do a very good job making the dog look like a killer . Though this is one Stephen King movie that made me skip the book entirely as it didn't pique my interest at all in the book .
Well the back of the box made it sound like it would be interesting .	Once again we have a horror movie that has an interesting premise , a somewhat good story and what happens ? It just does not live up to its potential as it makes mistakes that turn it from a really good horror movie to a watered down horror movie that has you thinking what might have been . The story , mother moves herself and two children to a little town to start a new career as a mortician . Granted this in itself is a bit hard to believe a father may have been a more realistic choice to lead the film , but whatever I can role with it . The older teenage son is against this move and is the typical teen in that he voices his opinion against the house and everything about what his mom is doing . . . I usually don't care for that type , but here I have to agree with him . Why she bought the place is beyond me , as I do believe the house was made a bit to rundown to be realistic . I doubt anyone with any lick of sense would want to move in having seen that house beforehand . Well there are mysterious things going on and there is talk of a person who lives in the cemetery in the front lawn and all that and it could have been really good , however , it is so far fetched in some areas , it moves so slowly at first , and then it doesn't want to end . The deaths are not all that gory , a bit of gore here and there , but not all that much . At times the movie seems to be trying to be a horror comedy and this hurts the movie as well . I like horror comedies a bit ( I really enjoyed the flick " Slither " ) , but don't half-heartedly go about it . Either be a horror comedy or go straight horror . Some scenes are a bit out of place thanks to this bizarre shift at times . The actors are the typical b-movie types and so they are okay . Then there is the use of cgi . . . I am against it in areas in this movie , why they felt they needed it for the last thing is beyond me . You could have made a realistic whatever it was with minimal effort and money and it would have looked a lot more real . And the ending had me going " Huh " ? Don't show what you showed in the previous scene and then hit me with that typical 80's horror ending . . . by the way if you have seen two horror movies with this type of ending you will know what is going to happen . Still though if they had developed the story better , stayed away from the comedy bits , and explained the thing and Bobby better this movie could have been a pretty decent horror flick as it is it has good and bad and is really just a mediocre flick .
Kind of a Terminator rip-off .	I would also say it was a " Robocop " rip-off too , but it came out before it and for all I know " Robocop " stole from this movie , but I doubt it . A mediocre version of " The Terminator " that has a scientist involved in an accident and his brain and a few other parts are placed in this super robot body meant for space flight . When I think about that it also sounds a bit like " Darkman " doesn't it ? The whole scientist in an accident thing . Anyway , this robot has his brain , but if he is touched or something the suit goes off and kills . The scientist has no control over it when it goes through these swings . If this isn't bad enough he is being chased by a really stupid bounty hunter woman . She hates men and would never let her self be killed by one . In fact , she would rather turn the gun on herself rather than be killed by the scientist in the suit . Of course , simply running away from the slow moving scientist never occurs to her , I guess she figured it would be easier to pull a trigger . There is an ending with our hero in quite a fight and then the very ending is kind of cruel . For some reason he is put on display or something .
For the most part the casting was good .	It is the story that suffers here . Popeye and Olive are perfectly cast . Robin Williams plays Popeye very well , and if ever there was a role for Duvall it is that of Olive . They should have gotten someone better known though to play Bluto , but unfortunately he isn't really that big of a player in this one considering how important he is in the cartoons . Here in lies the problem with this flick , the story is awful for the most part . Something about Popeye coming to a sea town to find his father . Bluto is a bit to quiet and mean in this movie as well . In the cartoon he was talkative and friendly and sometimes even best friends with Popeye . Here , he is almost evil . This movie also has a few songs so it is sort of a musical too . This may not turn some off , but I am not wild about musicals .
This movie is short .	This movie is short ; in fact it is too short . When you have a time traveling plot you need more than an hour and sixteen minutes to explain things . This one though is good if you haven't got a lot of time to invest in a longer movie . This one starts with a rather good fight in a diner as the hero must fight a trancer , sort of a zombie , but not really . There is one more encounter with one of these trancers , but that is it , there are none for the finale . Why name a movie after something and not have them in it all that much ? Still though it is an interesting enough plot and the lead guy is rather good , they just needed a lot more movie than they ended up with .
Well done movie , I just found it kind of boring and slow moving .	This movie had a very good cast , great special effects , and looks very good . I just found for the most part that it was kind of boring to me as well . In this movie you can see what makes James Cameron a very good director as he always has good special effects for his movies , he gets the most out of his cast ( I always thought he brought the best out of Arnold ) , and his movies usually have a lot of impact ( see the movie Aliens ) . However , this film also showcases some of his bad tendencies as well . His bizarre obsession with the ocean , the fact he lingers to long with certain scenes ( that scene where Ed Harris was trying to revive that girl went on way to long ) , and the fact he kind of over does it sometimes . The story has a super digging rig at the bottom of the sea , some people need to get on said rig to find some sort of ship or sub at the bottom of the sea . The team leader seems okay at first , but you will find out he is slowly losing it . The person in charge of the rig and the one who designed it are ex husband and wife and that makes for some friction as she does not care for the fact the military is taking over the rig . Well everything begins to unravel with the appearance of some strange thing as this causes the leader of the military guys to totally flip and lots of water and things crashing underwater to follow . The movie had potential , perhaps a more condensed plot would have helped or something , as it is I found the movie to contain both a lot of good and bad .
Part Alien , part Star Wars , and a little Star Trek thrown in as well .	This movie is about a couple that lives on this outpost in space . They are lovers and their world is carefree and simple . That is until a criminal comes and builds a robot that goes insane . The problem with this movie is that there just isn't enough cast here to make this movie as cool as it should have been . The robot needed people to kill , but there were only three people around so it didn't really get to flex its muscle . On the plus side Kirk Douglas is good , and so is Harvey Kietal as the criminal . Fawcett isn't great , but she does ok . The plot should have included more though as a lot of this movie goes unexplained , like Kietal's character motivations , or why didn't anyone warn Kirk and Farrah that a criminal was out there . In the end this movie has its moments , but tends to become a bit tedious .
Cultists strike again .	This movie has the investigator angle that I like and a few other things , I just wish the cult leader was brought back a bit sooner . This one starts out with these guys betraying their strange leader and putting some mask on him to stop him . It's a good thing too , because this cult leader actually does seem to have powers . Flash forward to later where some of his old members are trying to release him . The guy who betrayed him is killed when an illusion of his goes array and his wife wants answers . The movie just needed more ; it was going really good and then got even better when the leader was revived and then it finished really , really weak . Still though it is worth checking out , I am not a big Clive Barker fan , but this one is somewhat interesting . He just needed more , like the scene where the cult members are in the room and it rains . Still though this one is better to me than " Nightbreed " and a couple of others he has done .
Somewhat over the top horror .	This isn't going to get the most gory movie award ever , but it does have some blood and gore in it . Granted I never saw the unrated version though . This is another of King's short stories that were changed around a bit to make a feature film . The story was about a press that through a series of accidents becomes possessed by a demon . Two guys figure this out and try and perform an exorcism on it , but ultimately fail . The press comes to life . . . the end . Here there are other factors . One of the main changes or additions added is the Robert Englund character as the sort of villain . I am guessing the person who adapted the screenplay figured you couldn't use an inanimate object as your lead villain . So the series of accidents from the short story are no accident here . A bunch of conspiracy stuff is included as well as a haunted refrigerator . Though that may have been in the story as well . This movie has its moments for me and I certainly would not put it in my bottom one hundred movies of all time , but I also do not question those that do . If you want to watch a horror movie late at night and you don't care about the quality then this one fits the bill quite nicely . Otherwise , you should probably listen to all the other reviewers who say stay away .
Bad James Bond spoof .	This was supposed to be a James Bond spoof , but if that is what you are looking for then check out the Austin Power's movies . This one just spoofs a bunch of movies with mixed results . The best part of the movie is the title song , sung by Weird Al ; it is actually the only thing that really spoofs Bond flicks . There are also a few other good scenes in this as well , and then there are other ones that just seem to have Leslie Nielson reenacting a scene from a movie with no real pay off . Some of the movies spoofed are True Lies , Speed , Jurassic Park , and Pulp Fiction . There are more , but I can't remember them all . If they could have stood with some basic form of a plot this one would have been better , but as it is it has a couple of laughs in it . I particularly like the kid who was acting like the Home Alone kid and what happened to him .
Had potential , but man that Monkey King thing was quite lame .	The Monkey King aspect of the story and the whole Shia Labeuf look-a-like getting transported to the kingdom from Boston part . There were great fights with the highlight easily being the duel between Jackie Chan character and Jet Li . Unfortunately , this occurs maybe halfway through and the rest of the movie cannot compare to this martial arts sequence . Though the trip through the desert had a rather funny sequence in it . The story , kid transported back in time to China where he must deliver a staff to the Monkey King , and yes that is Jet Li in his most stupid role ever . You can not take any of the fights this guy is in seriously cause he has dumb makeup on and he frolics . Well the kid runs into Chan's character who is the master of the drunken fist and he helps the kid begin his quest where they run into a strange martial arts girl and another Jet Li character who seems to be a thief , but turns out to be a help . They are all on their way to the Jade Warlord in hopes of freeing said Monkey King . I am guessing whoever wrote this must watch Naruto cause it contained a monkey king that turned into a staff and he watched Mortal Kombat II cause that one villain gal looked just like a character from it with her white hair . So you get so so fights for the most part , a kid who is a bit annoying and who has a very predictable fight at the end , and one very intense fight that everyone wanted to see between Chan and Li . I hope they make another movie together , but in that one I want Chan as a cop and Li as some sort of crime boss . At the end they have a climatic battle in some sort of factory that makes cars or makes steel . Now that would be great !
Pardon the pun , but it isn't dreadful , however , it also is not very good .	The movie presents a lot of tense situations and gets the most out of its actors . . . this movie though has to many flaws to speak of as well . Number one on the list is that I don't really think this movie needed to be quite so long . I think a better format for it would have been on the Masters of Horror series as they generally go about 52 or so minutes . This one runs an hour and a half and that is to long . Also , I could not see well at all . At times they made it seem like something important needed to be seen , but the lighting was so horrible I could not see a thing . Well let's get to the story . . . I psychiatrist and her patient are driving a car through mountain roads , the catch being the patient is terrified of cars . After awhile , they hit a hitchhiker and stupidly give the very quiet and deadly hitchhiker a ride . Well this leads to a very tense drive , and lots of stupid things are done in typical horror fashion as we have a popped tire and our girls in terror that the hitch hiker is going to come for them . Of course , cell phones are useless , because for some reason people tend to break down in horror movies in the two percent of North America where one can't get a signal . Well this and that happens and for the rest of the movie we watch the girl with the phobia in a car crying and shouting for help along with shots of random fodder for the killer to kill and a sex scene to break up the scenes with the girl in the car . So there ya go , could have been better and worse . . . basically it is kind of like Cujo mixed with Friday the 13th or something . I think the other people introduced were simply meant to extend the films running time and add kills , which I don't mind , but they needed more development and seemed rather pointless in the end . The acting was good though and the girl seemed terrified and suffering , but like I said a shorter format may have been in order for this one .
Yes , we sent you the wrong box . . . you got the one with the deadly snake .	It has been awhile since I saw this movie , but from what I remember it wasn't the best picture ever . Though it did have its moments . This one has two parts to it . One is the kidnappers ; the other is a black mamba snake running loose . The snake ultimately screws up the kidnapping as it starts killing and terrorizing everyone in the building where the kidnappers are . This all starts out because the kid was supposed to get a harmless snake , but you know those darn mix ups . I sort of feel for the kidnappers though , you have the perfect plan all your details in check and a snake ruins everything . I realize black mambas are dangerous , but are they really as aggressive as the movie portrays ? The ending is rather cool though .
This one needs more . . . lags a bit to much in places .	This movie sounded really cool , so I jumped at the chance to buy it . Unfortunately , it wasn't what I was hoping for . It has its moments , but there are just a bit too many scenes that just hang around the house . The story is about a town that has strange things happening . All the scenes in town are good and a bit spooky , but this movie keeps focusing on this gal in town looking for her father and this dude and his two women who kind of invite themselves to stay at her house . There are some deaths in the movie , and the DVD box said not to watch this on a full stomach , but there is nothing that is that graphic in this movie . In fact , if the deaths were just a tad more graphic it would have helped the movie a bit . I don't mean chicken livers and stuff from an Italian zombie flick , but a little blood would have been nice . Especially in the grocery scene . I mean this zombies jump on a girl and I guess they were supposedly eating her , but there was really nothing there to indicate this . I think they blew the blood budget on the first death in the movie . The other problem of this one is the ending . It is a bit anticlimactic as it is basically the girl narrating a few scenes with nothing really being shown . Quite a letdown as the movie had finally picked up and then it just died down . All in all it isn't a great movie , but it is worth checking out . It has its good points and scenes my favorite of which is the movie theater scene . Just needed a bit more .
Wow for a bad movie it is sort of good . . . GREEN SLIME ! ! ! !	Yes , what to say about this movie written apparently by Americans , produced and directed by Japanese , and starring American and Italian actors and actresses . You have to say it is a fun movie to watch even though it is rather bad too . It is also rather good as well ! ! ! Yes , this movie is a mixed bag to be sure , but overall it is fun to watch because even the badness of the movie is fun to see . It also has lots of hot gals in it , somewhat brutal kills for a movie of this type , and you get rather strange tentacled beasties that are green , but do not really look all that much like slime . Well they did start off looking more like slime in their more " young " form I guess you would call it . Basically , it is an alien gets on board spaceship and cause havoc movie , and you can not really say this one copied Alien as this came out well before it . The effects are right out of a Godzilla movie , the monsters look like they were scheduled to fight Godzilla in Godzilla vs Hedorah , but got fired for not looking slimy enough and somehow managed to land a gig playing green slime . You get to see a lot of weapons fired at the seemingly impossible to kill slime , which is fine by one scientist who seems to really want to befriend them or something . Then you have a rather cool conclusion and then you have that awesome song at the end . Is this a good movie ? Most certainly not , but it is just hard to bash a movie that has such great campiness and hot gals , and cool cheap effects and a hell of a uplifting song . . . GREEEEEN SLIMMMME ! ! ! !
A bit tedious .	This version of the Blob , which is the original , is a bit boring at times . The only saving grace of the film is Steve McQueen in the lead role . He is fun to watch in anything . This movie has a great premise as a meteor lands and out comes a goop that eats and gets bigger with seemingly no other purpose . The problem is that it didn't get much screen time , as there are long stretches of no blob in sight . The highlight of this one is the attack on the movie theater . Other scenes just aren't all that convincing .
The easiest monster to kill ever .	This comes from the great studio of Full Moon . Makers of such films as " Dollman " , " Demonic Toys " , and " Hideous " . Here they at least try to make a horror movie and not a comedy / horror movie so they get points for that . What we get here is these people living in an abandoned hospital or something that one of them finds . It seems like a nice place except for the grizzly murders that took place there years ago . Well the monster is back and he is out to kill the kids who have taken residence here . The interesting thing is though that this monster is targeting certain people and it seems it is being manipulated . Well that is about the gist of it and it was not to bad , believe me Full Moon has made a lot worse . Still though this movie does have a rather anticlimactic ending cause the beast is killed really easily . In fact , anyone could have killed it . I won't give it away or how the monster targets its prey except I will say post-it notes of doom !
Typical giant insect movie .	This movie has some kids going on a retreat or something ( been awhile since I have seen it ) . During their trip they run into these pot growers who don't want them there . In the place where they are growing pot somehow or another the ticks start to grow big and go on the rampage . Nothing to special in this one , but it is far from a boring and terrible movie . It moves pretty fast and there are some good kills in this one . There is also a rather cool scene where this one kid splits open . The ticks aren't to bad looking , and I don't think they were computer animated . The ending is the same old trick as in other horror movies and nothing to surprising . Though can anyone tell me why the one kid felt the need to take all those steroids when he was walking through the woods hurt ? I don't believe they would have any positive impact that would help him .
Disappointing sequel to Creepshow .	I actually saw this one at the theater as a kid . I was expecting a lot considering how much I enjoyed the first one , but I was bitterly disappointed in this sequel . First off , there are only 3 stories instead of the 5 we got with the original . If that isn't bad enough we get these stupid cartoon sequences that play between the shorts that makes you say who came up with that ? I want to see the shorts , not cartoons . Then there is the lack of any stars aside from George Kennedy . The first one had quite a few people you would recognize , but not this one . The stories themselves were just OK . The first one is the weakest as it has Kennedy owning a store on an Indian reservation . Some kids rob the place and kill the couple and what follows is fairly predictable . The next tale is by far the strongest of this lot . Called " The Raft " , this one is actually a short story King wrote and found in one of his books of short stories . It has these teens going out for a swim . It is nearly fall so it is rather cold , but they swim out to the platform in the middle of a lake . There is this mysterious slime on the lake though and it seems to almost alive . Then the final tale is OK , but nothing great as it has a lady hitting a hitchhiker and driving away from the scene . The hitchhiker though stalks her , even though he is dead . The stories are watchable , but all in all this movie isn't as good as the first one .
The highlight of this film was the truth or dare scene .	Not that I am saying this movie was all bad , but that was the highlight and if the sexy talk is the highlight of a horror movie then it is not much of a horror film in the end . The story has this woman who seems to be having a bit of trouble on the marital front . Her solution to the problems seems to be to order some love god mask , they instead seem to send her the evil demon love god mask and throughout the movie you wander if this manifest ion is real or not . She is being driven to the mental institution by her husband they break down and she is seemingly stalked and attacked by this person or thing while her husband is getting gas . Meanwhile , somewhere in the woods there is a house with two couples . Two very cute girls who are friends and their boyfriends . They play truth or dare and then the crazy . . . or not , girl ends up in their care . Well lets just say there is somebody out there trying to get at her as he quickly steals a crossbow and handles the one guy while he is being mooned . However , you still don't know if it is the mysterious nightmare man the girl goes on about or something else . The husband is heading for the cabin though and soon afterward so are the police . This movie had potential as do most horror movies and like so many they just miss some stuff . On the plus side you get to see a couple of good kills , some good nudity , and the end was rather good too . However , I was kind of hoping for something more in the lines of say an Evil Dead movie rather than a typical slasher film with a twist here and there . So far out of the three Afterdark movies in this new batch this is the strongest , sadly though compared to the last batch this one would be tied with Penny Dreadful as the weakest in my eyes .
Started promisingly , but really missed the mark at the end .	The problem with reviewing this movie without a spoiler is that it is very hard to get across one of my main points of complaint for the reason stuff is " happening " in this movie . Let's just say it is not believable at all , people going crazy and killing each other that would be believable , people simply dying also so . However , in this movie they are killing themselves and I am not giving anything away by saying this as you can see this in the trailers . So you start out with some very good suicide scenes , but not as graphic as I had been led to believe it was going to be . In fact a pg-13 rating was probably a possibility . The story , simply put people are committing suicide , at first it is thought to be a nerve agent brought on by terrorist . A married couple and a friend with his daughter flee the city in the hopes of finding safe haven away from the big cities . Unfortunately , these suicide spells soon find their way to smaller and smaller towns . That is about all I can say without spoiling something . It had me going for a bit , but then the cause is basically revealed by some nut job in the middle of the flick and there are no twists or anything left in the film . You get the reason as stupid as it ends up being and M Night lets it ride . It almost seems as if M Night just couldn't figure out how to end the movie , could not quite grasp a good twist or even a good wrap up so he let the cause spoken by the sort of crazy guy ride and just said roll the credits , I have a better movie in mind now . This is just how it seems to me . The ending is really anti-climatic .
This one got a little to silly .	This movie had an interesting enough beginning as it had the old man dying and Gizmo being captured and taken to a research office in a super office building . Billy works at the office building and rescues Gizmo , who after that promptly gets wet and more of them are born . Now the movie just got plain silly . Though it is fun to see Christopher Lee in a small role . For the most part though this one goes for laughs and is nothing to take serious . I mean at one point it acts like the film breaks and Hulk Hogan makes an appearance so that should tell you it is almost like a Zucker comedy . Though that film break was highly effective in the theaters when I saw it . The futuristic office building angle is rather good , as it gives them some good jokes to do . . . overall though this one worked for me in some areas and didn't in others . I think I would have preferred something more like the first one and less like a spoof .
Not Bad , but not that good .	I am not the biggest star wars fan there is , but I did enjoy the orginal triology quite a bit . I waited in line to see this one too , and the first time I saw it I did enjoy it . The second time though I saw to many flaws . This was one of those movies where it is good in the beginning , really good in the end and a bunch of fluff in the middle . Sure some may say the race was exciting , but I say it was to long . I have to definately agree with the one writer who says the film didn't have the clearest plot . All these things can be overlooked , but the thing that ruined the movie was Jar-Jar Binks . I will not go into it , because I am sure many others before me have so what's the point ? It has its moments though like the saber fight at the end , but to many special effects and boring speculation scenes doom this movie to mediocrity .
Science fiction movies just don't age well do they ?	I didn't really want this movie ; it came on a double feature DVD with another movie about Venus . The only reason I got this DVD is that it came in a box with four horror movies . It was called the horror gift set so I don't know why there were two science fiction movies in the set . However , I found this one entertaining to some extent . Wasn't all that bad . The problem is that it starts slow and after the volcano scene it ends slowly . There are some rather good scenes in the middle though and I liked how they used outdoor scenes rather than sets . There are a couple of monsters here and there too to see . The plot has these three astronauts landing on Venus to find two others who apparently crashed there with their robot . It is interesting during this phase , but after they find them the movie gets really bad again as I am guessing they were just trying to pad out the rest of the film . The stuff about that gal Marsha was just really dumb . The end is just them speculating whether she landed on the planet to help or not . With a better climax this one could have been a somewhat entertaining little movie , though it couldn't have been too good as science fiction movies tend to age poorly especially when dealing with astronauts and stuff to that effect .
I am betting if this movie were simply called " Island Massacre " it would have a better score .	This is the first Troma picture I have seen that is basically a serious horror movie . What I mean is they never get really goofy here . Unfortunately , this probably turned off all the Troma fans out there . Then the title probably got zombie lovers attention and when they see this movie has basically one zombie who is not really involved with the plot they get ticked off and give the movie a one . I had low expectations so that is why I gave it a five . I did not think it was really all that good , but I also did not think it was all that bad . It was a watchable horror movie on an island with a few good kills and an easily predicted plot twist or two . I got this in a pack with two other Troma movies " Blood Hook " and " Blades " and I enjoyed this one the most even though the other two have higher scores . Still I understand why it has such a low score , when you are all set to see a zombie movie and you are not given any you do tend to get angry . I will admit this one would have been better if there were zombies swarming all over the house they take shelter in , but since I read some stuff before I watched it I knew it was not going to be a zombie movie per se .
Oh , that volcano isn't going to erupt .	Yes , this is the typical 70's all-star disaster flick . Though this one was made in 1980 . This one , however , was not a hit . When " The Towering Inferno " was in theaters , it made over 100 million at the box office . When this one was at theaters , it made less than 2 million . Part of the problem is that it doesn't look much like a movie for the theater . In fact , when I first saw it , I thought it was a made for television movie . I think most of the budget in this one went to the stars , and not nearly enough went into special effects . The story in this one is typical of a volcano movie as it has someone trying to warn people that the volcano is going to erupt . Of course no one believes them and then an eruption occurs . We have people getting fried , and a select group trying to head for safety . Along the way they have to cross a bridge , and it turns out there is someone who has a special ability to be put in use here like the character in " The Poseidon Adventure " who was an excellent swimmer . This one has some good qualities though and if you have nothing else to do it may be worth a look-see , but it is definitely nothing special .
A few moments of fright here and there , otherwise an overlong rather dull sequel .	Well it had to happen at some point , a film version of a Japanese horror movie that doesn't make me want to see the original version . Though I will probably still get it if it becomes available hoping its plot is a bit better than this movie's plot . Starts out promisingly enough , but about 15 minutes into it , it slows down a lot and it gets rather boring in areas . One of its problems is that it is to long . A long movie is great if it is an epic adventure or a horror of the Exorcist persuasion , but this movie just seemed to need a little more cut down . There is also way to much of the little boy from the first one in this one . He is the focal point here , and it gets rather tiresome here having to sit through his and his mother's conversations together . I don't want to give to much of the plot away , but it really doesn't seem to make a lot of sense considering the first movie where the girl is some sort of killing machine . This is where the original Japanese version of Ringu helps as it explains why the girl has the power to kill as she inherited power from her mother apparently . Here we don't know why she kills and we don't really know why she is tormenting the little boy , except that she wants a figure in her life that she has never had , but why does she want that in the first place ? The evil video tape is all but gone from the plot in the first few minutes , which is a shame because that was the most interesting aspect of the first one . That movie also built up to a rather creepy conclusion , while this one's conclusion is not really all that scary at all . So if you saw the first one , you may want to check it out , if not you aren't missing a lot . I suggest if they make another one , dump Watts and the kid and move on to another person to focus the story on .
This comedy not as bad as I thought it would be , not Stallone's worst movie by any means .	I rank this movie a five and by my standards that means I do not really find this movie good or bad , this score for me is almost a wash out where it has both good and bad features . This movie is about a police officer with an overbearing mother who is about to visit her son for a bit . And by overbearing she is in the same class as the mother from the John Candy movie " Only the Lonely " without being the word that rhymes with witch . Anyways , her son has apparently had a thing for one of the lead officer's played by JoBeth Williams of Poltergiest fame . There is a murder , mother witnesses it and she now gets to stay longer and cause her son even more grief as well as trying to repair the rift between the two officers and help her son and not the other annoying detectives figure out who is responsible for the murder . She also washes his gun really well and causes him so much stress he has a very bad dream . The movie has some good humor here and there and is nothing more than a buddy cop movie that usually does not work as most buddy cop movies featuring someone other than a cop as the other buddy usually never works . See Cop and a Half . Still , this one was not all bad and made me chuckle a couple of times , however I would not go out of my way to see it either .
Interesting at times , but boring at others .	This is a rather different take on the ghost story . Supposedly based on a true story , this one though is highly unbelievable . Not only that , but there isn't really all that much too it . A woman is stalked by a force that seemingly assaults her . That is about all there is to it . A guy tries to help her out with different approaches , the most unique being trying to freeze the ghost in a mock room at a university . Could have been better if they would have added a bit more scares and such , but other than beating up the gal , this entity doesn't do all that much . Which makes me think the real life woman simply had an abusive boyfriend or husband and this was the story they came up with to explain the wounds . At least it was an original idea , eh ?
Not good , not bad .	This movie had its moments , and then it had its moments of pure boredom . Apparently , this was based on a book . . . and from what I have read in the comments there was a lot more to the books . This one has a family who has recently lost a dad moving in with the most evil grandma ever . She apparently hates the four kids of this family very much . . . you learn why , so I won't spoil anything . The kids get locked away in a room that has access to an attic ( hence the title ) . The mother occasionally visits them , but seems not to care for them too much . Why the kids wait till they are very sick to try and escape is beyond me as it would be apparent to anyone that the mother didn't care for them too much . This movie for the most part is very depressing and dark and has minimal scenery or sets . . . it is interesting though in some aspects . Watching them pass away time in the attic , getting more and more antsy as they spend their days waiting for the mother to return . In the end though it isn't anything great , so you may want to skip this one .
I just did not think it ran well on all cylinders .	This Eddie Murphy comedy was somewhat funny at times , but I don't know . . . for me it missed the mark . Started out relatively strong , but faded in the end when it got a bit to sentimental , which admittedly a lot of comedies tend to do . The story has Murphy as a Prince who is to be married to a woman who has been groomed to be his bride by following his every command . Eddie's character does not want this though , he yearns to find real love so he is off to America a place where not everyone knows who he is to find Mrs . Right as it were . He gets a job as a worker at a McDonald's rip off type joint ( which to me is the funniest parts of the movie ) and falls for the daughter of the man who runs this establishment all the while keeping his identity as a prince a secret . Arsenio is rather good as his faithful traveling companion as is most of the cast . They are not the problem , the fact this movie tends to lag is . Slow lengths of the film where there is not all that much funny stuff going on , the movie is under two hours , but feels more like a two and a half hour movie . I say I would have liked it more had they trimmed it down ten or so minutes and kept the laughs going throughout the whole movie as they were the first part of it .
My least favorite of the series .	This rarity is actually one of the few movies whose first edition to me wasn't great , but I enjoyed the sequels . The problem with this one is that it has a good action sequence in the beginning and a good one at the end , but not much is in the middle . Mel Gibson is Max , who at the beginning kills this psycho driving a car . His brother wants revenge . The movie basically isn't much fun to watch again till Max's wife and child are killed and Max goes for revenge . This movie just needed more action or something as it moves way to slow in the middle . Gibson is also dubbed in some versions of this movie , which is really stupid . I have heard the undubbed version and his Australian accent isn't hard to understand at all . Why they felt the need to dub it we will never know I guess .
Good cast , but the special effects are quite bad .	I know , you are thinking that it was made in 1979 so the effects are not up to par with today's stuff . No , I mean the special effects are bad for then . The special effects just don't measure up to movies like Star Wars ( the space scenes ) or other disaster movies of the time . I like Sean Connery though and the rest of the cast is rather good , so this one is not completely unbearable . It is , however , rather slow moving and when a chunk of meteor falls it is not very impressive at all . The highlight would have to be the tidal wave that hits Japan , it looks okay , but that is only when compared to all the other scenes in the movie when the meteors strike . The ones that burn up over Italy look like brake lights flying through the sky , the mountain top blowing up also looks incredibly bad . Then there is the scene at the end where they have to get through a tunnel , it looks good , but the scene is so short . You are left wishing there was a bit more to it ( though I can't believe they covered Connery with mud like that ) . This movie needed to be a bit more like other disaster movies in that there is more stuff in the middle of the film other than the two minute scenes depicted meteor damage . Most of the action here took place at the end .
This one isn't nearly as good as the first , but it isn't one of the worst movies ever .	While this one certainly is not the original , it certainly isn't bad enough to be on the list of worst movies ever . I found some of the jokes to be funny and it wasn't a complete waste of time so I just don't see how it has such a low ranking . Well maybe I do . The main problems I had with this one are the story and its focus . This movie really has nothing to do with caddies , other than Silverman's character there are no other caddies that are focused on . In fact , other than the fact it is a country club , Chevy's character is back , and the gopher it really doesn't have much else in common with the original . Jackie Mason is the focal point here taking the Rodney Dangerfield role from the first . Here is one of the problems ; he isn't nearly as funny or likable as Dangerfield . The scenes with his daughter also get annoying as it gets somewhat serious at times . Chevy reprises his role as Ty , but other than the fact he goes " nananana " he almost is a different character . Dan Akroyd sort of takes the place of Bill Murray's character and has a few funny lines , but his performance will not make anyone forget Bill Murray from the first one . Also , you do not have special appearances in a movie , when that appears it just makes your whole movie seem a bit generic . Also , both Chevy and Dan were in the movie more than say Marsha Warfield who is listed ahead of them . There are some good performances though . . . I liked Randy Quaid's character and Robert Stack was rather good too . It is good for a couple of laughs and I do not really think it is all that awful , but if only they could have done a better job with the central story in this one . I just don't think Jackie was very good and he kind of pulls the movie down a couple of notches .
This one takes itself less seriously .	Like Student Bodies this one is a parody of slasher flicks . Unlike Student Bodies this one never has scenes that are too serious . Having said that it isn't the best movie ever , it is merely tolerable . Though I loved Paul Reubens ( Pee Wee ) . His character made me laugh any time he was on screen .
Can you really blame the guy ?	In this one this guy gets disabled and can no longer look after himself , as he cannot move anything from the neck down . A person is hired to look after him . His friend though decides to give him a monkey he is experimenting on to help his friend out . Unfortunately , this monkey begins to form some sort of link between itself and the disabled man and performs some of the man's dark thoughts . The monkey kills off the bird of the caretaker , as this bird actually attacks the man , the monkey also goes after his former lover and the guy she had an affair on . This guy is actually the one who performed the surgery on the guy . The caretaker moves out after her bird is killed , so the guys mom moves in to take care of her son and treat him like a child . You can really sympathize with the guy as his frustration mounts , as it seems people are discouraging him from ever moving again even though there is a slim possibility he can regain his former abilities . This movie also shows how , even though someone may be disabled and in need of assistance that they shouldn't be treated like a child . All in all an OK flick with a rather good ending .
Kind of a minimal movie , but not bad .	By minimal I mean there aren't all that many characters to get to know , and there also are not all that many sets . . . so basically a horror movie with a very limited potential for kills . Still I thought it was done rather well , could have been better , but then again most horror movies could would have and should have been better . This one has a very pretty girl with a number of tragedies that have marked her life . Her mother died when she was born , her grandfather died the prior year she just wants to have fun on her birthday for once . Well she goes with a friend to a wild frat party , which is mistake number one and her friend hooks her up with an obvious scumbag . Why do gals prefer this scum who would do what he does to a guy like me I will never know , but that is just the facts . This guy precedes to take her to the basement and gets her to tell her sad story and after she passes out from the drug in her drink rapes her . Great guy , eh ? Well the drug in the drink kills the girl and is the movie over . . . no ! It has just begun as the girl must now try to figure out the afterlife as her grandfather is there , but he seemingly wishes to do her harm and also there is her guardian angel who tries to explain things to her , but he also seems kind of menacing as well . There are flashes of others in her life , things looking for her soul and she also has the ability to look back on the life she left behind and see the party still going on . Like I said not bad , just needed more , the girl is really pretty and she does a nice job . I could have used a couple of more venues as I get really tired of the frat house . From the back of the box I was actually expecting more of a darker version of an earlier film I enjoyed " Highway to Hell " , still there are worse ways to spend one's time .
This Rocky is a bit much , but still okay .	Yes , this Rocky takes aim at the cold war between the US and Russia or USSR that was taking place during the time of this movie . This one is also more over the top than part three and just not realistic at all . Still , those training sequences in this movie as well as parts of the fight really get one's blood pumping . The movie has a Russian boxer coming to America to take on any challenger bold enough to go head to head with him . For some reason , this infuriates Apollo and he is the one to challenge the Russian . Well the fight occurs and tragedy occurs , to much tragedy we lose one of the most interesting and fun Rocky characters when all he had to to was lose and maybe get partially paralyzed or something . Apollo dying just mirrored Mickey's death in the previous movie to much . Well now Rocky wants revenge and he is going to Russia to fight the monster that killed his friend . Great training scenes occur and Rocky and the monster fight . The fight is a bit much , but still cool . This movie has a fast flow , so despite its flaws it is an okay film .
Sometimes funny , sometimes awkward .	I prefer the sequel to this movie , however , it is noteworthy as it is the film that started Jim Carrey on the fast road of success . Still , I am surprised he made it after this flick . I think it is okay , and that the humor is funny for the most part , however , at times Carrey goes so over the top that it almost gets embarrassing to watch . Throw in the fact that Dan Marino is my favorite quarterback of all time and seeing him in this is also painful . Still , it has its moments as Ave Ventura is a pet detective as the title implies and gets wrapped up with a missing Dolphin , the team mascot of the Dolphins no doubt . So that is all there is to it , or is there more . Funny revelations and some surprising scenes near the end make this movie for me in the end as does Carrey's performance in parts of the film . If only he were not so over the top in some scenes this film would have rated a higher score from me . Still , it was neat watching my Dolphins go to the Super Bowl , a feat that only the movies seem capable of making happen these days .
Hey its Cliff Claven ! ! !	Yes the first House had Norm , this one Cliff . All in all not to bad of a movie , but just not as good as the first one . This one is actually more of a comedy , and has very little horror in it at all . This one has these two friends digging up a corpse to get a crystal skull . . . the corpse though , an old relative of one of the guys , is still alive and kicking . They take him and the skull back to their house and all heck breaks loose as the skull somehow opens portals to different times . The actors do rather well , but be warned . . . Bill Maher is in this one . I can't stand him myself , and I know a lot of people who feel that way , so if you can't stand him I can say he isn't in this one too much . This one flows by pretty quick and it is best not to take it to seriously .
Story about survivors of a nuclear war .	This movie doesn't take itself to seriously for the most part , considering it is about survivors of a nuclear war . It basically has these army guys or something who were in a bunker during the war . They survive and are still at the bunker . They decide they don't want to stay there so they make their way through this area of land known as " Damnation Alley " . Before they leave there is a giant scorpion scene . They drive along in these giant vehicles , one crashes almost immediately . . . this gets rid of some of the cast . Along the way the remaining guys find survivors and other perils . They find radioactive rednecks , a town overrun by killer cockroaches , and other dangers . For the most part this movie is pretty good , but it just needed a little more as it doesn't have a very thrilling conclusion . It also doesn't have any big name stars either . . . the only one I knew was the guy from the A-team . Add some more action and more scenes like the cockroach town and this one would have been better .
The weakest entry to the Austin Power's series to me by far .	I liked the first two Austin Powers ' movies quite a bit . Not so much with this one , this one was okay as most of it we have seen before . Granted , there was a humorous opening I did not expect and the closing was the same , but the stuff in the middle was just same ol same ol . The only two new facets in this entry are Michael Caine as Austin's dad which is somewhat funny and Goldmember a new villain who is not funny at all . Also , Austin has a new girl and Beyonce is the weakest of the Austin girls by far . So the story , of course Dr . Evil has a plan involving Goldmember , kidnapping Austin's dad and a new doomsday device all doing most of the same jokes from part one and two . Sure some of it is still a bit funny , but it is also old too . The story is not as fluent either as it goes here and there making jokes at everything and not seeming to be as well put together as the first two were . Then there is the revelation at the end that makes little sense especially considering the previous two movies . So just about everything in this one is weaker than the previous two movies . Nothing really is better here and for the most parts you are just revisiting jokes from the previous installments as well . So in the end if this is the last one of the series it goes off on a rather weak note , and I have not heard anything about a sequel anytime in the future and how this one ended I would not think it possible anyway so expect a good chuckle here and there , but nothing new really worth seeing .
Somewhat good horror film , but it has fatal plot flaws .	This movie is a rather good horror movie , if you are a horror fan . If not it isn't for you and you should probably just skip it . This movie has a newlywed couple being stranded on the side of the road ; the wife gets raped by something and is impregnated . Flash years later and her son is starting to have problems . They go to a town near where the incident happened , but run into some sort of cover-up . Their son , in the meanwhile , seems to be going crazy and he goes on a killing spree . He seems to be the person who raped his mom . This movie is interesting enough , but in the end it is ruined a bit by the plot revelations . None of them make much sense . Sure someone was held underground , but why would this turn them into a monster ? What the heck do cicadas have to do with anything ? These questions just hurt the movie ; a better plot is needed here . I like the small town with a secret stories though so that is probably why overall I enjoy it and there are some good makeup effects near the end of this one , it just needed twists that fitted the situation better .
Rather good movie .	This movie was a rather enjoyable fantasy flick about a girl having to navigate her way through a maze to save her baby brother from the goblin king . It could have used a little work on the story though as I never figured out how she defeated the goblin king who was played by Bowie . This one has a couple of songs in it as well , but it really isn't a musical . Kind of like a live action Disney movie or something . It is pretty fun watching her go through the labyrinth , but after the bog there isn't really much of a labyrinth left . All in all though an ok flick , just needed a bit of tweaking .
Campy fun .	I actually like this Jaws ok . I don't think it is a masterpiece or anything , but it is good if not taken to seriously . This one focuses on the Brodie boys who really went through a growth spurt . One ( Dennis Quaid ) works at a sea amusement park and this is where the shark attacks take place ( this should alone tell you not to take the film to seriously ) . I actually saw this one at the theater too , so that helps to enjoy the film more as it was rather cool in 3-D and it is the only 3-D movie I have ever seen at the theater so maybe that is why I will always somewhat enjoy it . The plot is at a sea park like I said and first the team goes after this one shark that was rather puny , then you find out there is a bigger one out there . There are a couple of pretty good shark attack scenes and I loved the subplot of the people stuck in that pod underwater . This film isn't for everyone though seeing as how it is ranked as one of the worst so read other people's reviews before deciding to see it .
Be careful of what you wish for .	The first installment of this series explained nothing , and was by far the most sinister and creepy . The second explained a bit more , but there were still enough mystery's to keep you guessing . This third installment , explains so much that it does not seem all that scary and seems more like science fiction than a dark evil supernatural force the first one seemed to be leaning toward . Still it was okay , just not the same as the first one or the second one , though it picks right up where the last one left off . Of course you must ignore the fact Reggie tossed that shotgun in the first one and now he has it and Jody is played by a different guy , other than that I can roll with it . A bit to much humor is used in this one too , as this also takes away from the movie's spookiness as well . Still the scene with the robbers going into the house and being hunted down by the kid is pretty cool and there are other scenes that make this movie enjoyable and not boring . It just explains to much and how many of those death globes do ya need in a flick and their origin is stupid as well . Like I said it seems what once was a horror movie is shifting to more of a science fiction movie .
Good premise , just fails to live up to it .	This movie is very icky , and it provides lots of shivers . . . unfortunately most of these occur when the movie is just our team of medical students dissecting their corpse and not from the horror elements of the film . Still , it had a promising story , one of those vengeful spirit stories as anyone who touches this certain cadaver ends up dead . . . the main problem , there is only really one on screen death in the flick . I wasn't sure what was doing the killing though so it did keep me guessing as for a second or two I thought there might be a twist ending of some sort or other . So what is the story , students in lab are dissecting bodies one of the group has a bad feeling and by golly she is right to have it . The movie was okay for the most part , I would have liked to see more on screen action and a bit less speculation , this is a low budget movie though so I will overlook this . It also could have moved on a little faster too , as I have seen two hour movies that did not feel as long of course another problem is most of the action took place in a rather drab hospital and those movies with very few locations tend to seem longer because of this . You do get to see some stuff though as we have the dissection and a really icky scene at the end where our heroes are swimming somewhere I would rather not think about . So not a super good movie , but it has its moments and is watchable .
First part of the movie is very funny .	The first half of this flick , I found was very funny . Unfortunately , though it loses its energy and is only worth a few chuckles . It is still ok , but it just isn't laugh out loud funny . Two guys are recruited to be spies , though they are actually just decoys for the real spies . The test scene and the training scenes are the best part of this film . Dan and Chevy are very funny in these scenes and work well with each other . After the training though it just isn't the same . There is a funny scene where they pose as doctors and a few other scenes here and there . Then there are these long stretches where nothing really happens , and things that don't really seem to belong in a comedy . Like the scene where you see all this screens and stuff opening up to try and destroy the missile . The plot really strays near the end as well .
Thought this one would be funnier .	From the previews this one looked real funny , but it just wasn't as funny as it looked and should have been . I was expecting a really good super hero spoof , what I got was a somewhat ok super hero take off . This one has three super hero wannabes trying to rescue the one real superhero in the city . Greg Kinnear plays this super hero and is totally underused . He made for some of the best comedy in this one and for the most part he wasn't in it . Ben Stiller is good as mister Furious and Macy as the shovel guy . Hank Azaria is annoying though as the Blue Raija and Garrafolo isn't funny as the Bowler . Reubens is also underused . The villains should have been funnier too . This one just was a little too serious considering it is supposed to be about wannabe superheroes .
Starts off rather good , but has real second half issues .	This one started off good , but as soon as David Bowie exits the movie , it really goes downhill as the next part of the movie seems rather rushed and underdeveloped . The story is about a vampire lady and her various loves . I guess that is what it is about because the movie as a whole doesn't really explain things very well . Stuff happens and you are left wondering just what happened . I think though that has more to do with the fact I watched the movie on regular television so it was a bit cut up to shreds . The movie starts with a rather somber and sad little tale with the vampire girl and her lover played very well by Bowie luring a couple to their home . They don't kill how regular vampires kill . As the story moves forward , Bowie's character seems to be aging rather rapidly . . . his time is apparently nearly up . Unfortunately , he is not allowed to die , but rather face an eternity of rotting in the vampire gal's collection of lovers . Though she does seemingly care for each and every one of them . Then the story races to the finish as the vampire girl really moves fast to fill the void . . . to fast as this is where the story feels really rushed . At one point Susan Surandon's character does something with a cross either stabbing herself or the vampire . . . I couldn't tell . Then the movie franticly races to a bizarre zombie like scene and then the end which sort of makes sense . If only it could have ended after Bowie left the picture .
Why the boat race at the end ?	This is a movie about a family that goes on a vacation and rents a beach house . When they first arrive they are at a beautiful house that has its own beach . Unfortunately , it turns out to be the wrong house and the house they do have is not nearly as nice . This one is very good for laughs at the beginning , but it really tails off near the end . It ends up being the old ; let's race boats plot . Why it feels it needs this plot point is beyond me . I enjoyed it , just seeing the family on their trip and all the things that happened to them , but in the end it switches to having to win the race . All in all though it is pretty funny to watch .
There should have been only one .	I am not the biggest fan of this movie , I only give it a six , but compared to the other movies and the show it is almost an Oscar worthy picture . This one is about an immortal who through the killings of other immortals hopes to attain the prize . He must win , because if he loses , one who is evil will have total power to do anything he wishes . How do you kill an immortal you ask ? Why , you chop their head off of course . Sounds cool , but it plays out very slowly with the highlight of this one being the scenes with Sean Connery . Especially , the fight between Connery and the villain of this piece . There are other good fights here and there and a very good musical score mainly comprised of Queen songs that makes up for the parts of the film that just seem to drag by . Lambert and the villain are good though and they have a pretty good fight in the end , though not as good as the one involving Connery . When this movie ends though that should really have been it as everything done and said in the movie really points to the last fight as the final one with the phrase " there can be only one " .
Unrealized potential .	I thought this movie had a rather interesting plot and had potential to be really good , but it just needed more . Of course my review is based on the TV cut of this movie not the theatrical cut so that version is a bit gorier in places . Most people don't realize what they see on a channel like amc is not what you would see in the theaters or on tape . Halloween 2 also had a TV cut that wasn't as good also . I don't believe this movie deserves to be on the bottom 100 movies of all time , this is mainly due to the fact that fans of the series rate this one low simply because Myers isn't the killer , they somehow couldn't get the fact that he died in part two . So after this movie more Halloween's were made , and I think they are all worse than this one . Myers went from being a rather believable serial killer to Jason Voorhees , which is ironic because Friday the 13th originally copied Halloween . This movie though does a couple of things wrong . One it should have called itself Halloween : Season of the Witch and not Halloween III season of the witch . This was not a sequel so don't advertise yourself as one . Also , it actually plays the Halloween movie within it , which only reminds people of Myers and they don't like the idea of him being reduced to a movie character within a movie . The story here is about a mysterious toy company that is within a mysterious town . Which is probably why I like it better than some . I always enjoy the strange town plot in horror . This movie also features this really annoying jingle that plays throughout . No superstars in this one , but it does feature Atkins who was also in the Fog . In fact this movie reminds me of the fog a bit . The music definitely sounds more like the Fog than Halloween . This movie though could use a couple of more deaths and the finish is way to flashy , reminds one of Star Wars . Other than that an okay movie , nothing great , but a lot better than any of the sequels that would follow . . . of course I didn't see part 8 , but I will assume it wasn't to good .
My favorite of the underwater movies . . . which really is not saying much .	Yes , there was this movie , " Deepstar Six " , and " The Abyss " . . . all came out around the same time and this one is the one I enjoyed the most . Most will probably vote for " The Abyss " , and I don't blame them as it is a superior film in many ways . However , I found it kind of boring and this one is more horror oriented which is why I enjoyed watching this one more . It is shorter too . This movie has monsters in it , but unlike " Deepstar Six " where the monster is kind of a side story at times the creature featured in this one is the main attraction . What kind of monster is it you ask ? Hard to say , I would most compare it to the thing in the movie " The Thing " by John Carpenter , granted this movie is not as good as that one . The cast is lead by Peter Weller , one of those actors who typically appear in this kind of film . Not quite an A film , but a bit to good to be a B film . You also get Richard Crenna and Ernie Hudson too . So in this film be prepared for lots of monster action and gore . Think " Alien " meets " The Thing " as it does seem to comprise a lot of situations and ideas of those films while being inferior to both still provides a somewhat good horror film . However , I do have a complaint that has to do with the story . I found the last death really unnecessary and I did not care for it at all as I was pulling for this one character to live .
Could have been a lot better .	This one needs more laughs and other things . . . if it had them it would have been a very funny and good movie . What we are left with is a comedy that in places takes itself way to seriously . Missile chips are placed in this toys and it makes them respond to commands and the like . Unfortunately , it also gives them a will of their own and they go on the rampage . It would have been a funnier movie if these toys just overtook a town , or maybe they were harmless and just did stupid things , but instead they are after these other monster robots whose appearance in the film wrecks the whole thing . The monsters are also smart as well and can move about , but they add nothing to the plot . The human characters aren't the best either , with the exceptions of Jay Mohr , Phil Hartman , and David Cross . The rest , including Kirsten Dunst are just not funny or good . The whole premise of the guy with the toy store and not wanting military toys , but the son thinking he should was just bad . I would have preferred some other device to get the toys in town . Good for a couple of laughs though it is an ok flick . . . just not what it could have been .
It is an original movie , but it runs to long at the end .	This started out interestingly enough , but man did it run way to long after most of the characters had already been slain . Still it was rather good here and there , though I am not sure why the English title for this was Evil Dead Trap cause really there are no zombies or anything like that . The trap part of the title is appropriate cause the whole premise of the movie is sort of a trap . A trap to ensnare a reporter and her colleagues by luring them in with a tape showing the directions to an old abandoned military base and a brutal murder of a woman . The group heads out to the factory and does the exploring thing and then they begin to get killed in very unpleasant ways . . . killed very quickly I might add as we are left with only one of the group left and a mysterious man . I had no problem figuring out the secret , but that is because the stupid inside of the DVD had a picture that pretty much ruined the one revelation and helped you figure out the other quickly too . So in the end you are left with one of the longest confrontation scenes ever in a horror movie that isn't all that exciting to watch . It just went on and on , then death , then attack , another apparent death and attack till they finish off with a rather gory ending which is okay , but nothing I haven't seen before in a Lucio Fulcio movie . Still though it has some upside to keep you entertained a bit . . . I just would have preferred a bit more explanation on some points and less in other areas .
Somewhat good in places , but does not have the impact of the first movie .	I finally now have seen this the second Godzilla movie made . The first where Godzilla takes on another monster . . . the other monster presented is Anguirus . The story was pretty good for the most part as they make it clear in the Japanese cut anyway , that this is a new Godzilla and not the one destroyed by the oxygen destroyer . Also , this new monster is also discovered . The cities just off the coast are on alert , everything seems to go well until a bunch of prisoners escape and start a large fire ( light apparently attracts Godzilla ) and not only does he come , but so does Anguirus and they battle in the city . After the battle there is time to relax as Godzilla leaves peaceful like enough and the city was evacuated very well this time too . Everything is going well until Godzilla reappears in a more northern town , however at one point he is in the middle of a bunch of snow capped mountains and a plan is hatched to stop Godzilla's onslaught again . This movie could have been better though , there is a lot of filler in this movie , I am thinking they felt they needed more scenes to pad out a rather short running time film . However , with this movie coming out only six months after the original , the extra scenes had to be scenes of people rather than of the monsters . Also , the film goes on a bit to long well after the battle between the two monsters . So much so that the threat of Godzilla seems to even evaporate for a time . I also think the plane scene at the end went on to long as their plan should have to worked after they figured it out rather than going back to base to load up on missiles . However , the fight between the two monsters is rather good , and unlike the professional wrestling like quality of the next movie " Godzilla vs King Kong " in this one the monsters fighting seems to be like that of two actual animals and not men in costumes . I think this one would have been much better though if they did not rush to complete it .
It was alright . . . nothing special .	The way people talked about this movie I was expecting a laugh riot . Instead it was worthy of a few laughs here and there . The first time I saw this I only caught the tail end of it ( the last twenty or so minutes ) and quite frankly it wasn't very funny at all . Then I saw the whole movie and most of the best jokes are in the first hour . Still it was only worth a chuckle here and there . . . I definitely don't see what the big deal was . Myers does the voice of the ogre , and he is basically doing his fat-b & st @ rd Scottish voice , but he does rather well . Murphy basically does the character he played in Mulan . Lithgow , who does the best job isn't in it enough . Some cute jabs at Disney in this one and their theme parks and overall it was ok , but not all it was hyped up to be .
Starts out promisingly enough , but in the end it kind of falls apart .	This movie was of course a typical horror movie in my eyes . The one where it had potential to be really good , but it does things wrong here and there and it falls apart to either a bad movie or in this case a just okay movie . The story has a newly hired security guard for an old burned out department store making his rounds . However , in this department store there are quite a few mirrors present . Strange noises and sounds are a plenty . This guy is also a former cop on leave who had something bad happen during his time as an undercover cop . He is also separated from his wife and children and living with his sister . Well something seems to be trying to send him a message and it is doing so very violently to the point of going after his family . Seems the mirrors have a secret . So there you have it , to bad the revelation at the end of what was the secret does not really fit into the whole mirror theme . The showdown at the end to was a bit much as it seemed like it came straight from the movie " End of Days " . Also , there were plot holes left unanswered such as the how the other security guard sent the package to our hero . Still , it was somewhat good up until a point . Keifer Sutherland added something to the movie and for a time I was really enjoying the atmosphere of the movie as it seemed almost like Silent Hill . However , Silent Hill Origins and Silent Hill 3 both had better scenes involving mirrors and they are games !
Pinhead isn't in this one much either .	Though he is in this one a bit more than the first one . This one I like a tad more than the first , still this series is a bit freaky . This one has this weird doctor doing experiments and stuff and he ends up bringing the wife of the first movie back to life by using a rather gory method . Meanwhile , the daughter from the first one keeps having dreams of her father needing helped , trapped in some bizarre place . There is also some gal who is catatonic and she is the one who opens the gates into the strange universe of Pinhead . Some twists here and there as the good doctor is betrayed and turned into something like what Pinhead is , only he is a bit more deadly . The daughter finds the source of the dreams and all sorts of other unpleasant things are revealed . The ending is kind of over the top as it just gets weirder and weirder , but hey that is what this series is all about .
Four horror tales to fright and delight you !	Not the best anthology movie made , but it was somewhat good . I liked " Creepshow " and " Cat's Eye " better , but this one is on par with " Twilight Zone : the Movie " . There are other anthology movies that this one is a lot better than . For one it has a good number of stories , though in the end they are a little like episodes of the show " Tales from the Darkside " . The first one is based on an urban myth as a woman goes out for cigarettes on a night some crazed mental patient is on the loose . I can't really say much more or I will end up ruining the ending ( which you will know if you ever heard the myth like I have ) . The next story is the best one in my book , mainly because I play a lot of video games . It features a young Emilo Estevez as this really good game player . He is obsessed with this one game called " The Bishop of Battle " . He wants to get to this level that no one has ever gotten too , and one night he breaks into the arcade and he makes it to the level and let's just say he is in for a surprise at what the mystery level contains . The third story is about a priest who has lost his faith . He is driving in the desert where he is confronted by a mysterious truck with tinted windows . They do a cat and mouse routine through the desert terrain . Finally , we have the story of a couple who have a small rat problem . This anthology movie is not going to blow you away , but the tales are good enough to be rather entertaining .
An okay combination horror film from the sci fi channel .	For a science fiction channel movie it is pretty good . . . most of their movies consist of a computer generated monster of some sort in the water or killer dinosaurs or something . This one was sort of a combination of two Stephen King novels " The Stand " and " It " and while no means better than the books it is at least better than " It " . Never saw " The Stand " so I don't know if it was better than that one . This one has a man battling what is essentially the devil many times in the past , each time helping someone out and they in turn are in his debt . Well the final showdown is about to take place , in a town where it all began so many years ago as the devil apparently killed many in a town including the man who would battle Satan's parents . So all those the man has saved start to go on the move for the town so they can help in this final battle . Of course , along the way the devil is trying to knock off as many of these friends as he can . Nothing to shocking and there are some plot points that needed to be worked out a bit more such as the Dee Wallace character and the main characters sister , still though it passed the time and had a few good gory effects , of course it had some bad ones too as you know the sci fi channel has to use that computer they own to add horrible computer graphics where using old fashioned techniques would have worked as well if not better such as the church steeple in the middle of the lake . Really why use cgi there ? Simply imposing a real steeple would have looked more real and would have been cheaper too . Oh well . All in all not a bad flick it has this and that and look for Jeffery Combs in the sort of comic relief role as he does a good job .
Not exactly a great finale for the afterdark horror movies .	I was a bit disappointed by this film . From the back I was expecting one of the best , if not the best Afterdark movie yet . Why else would this one be held off from the others and released separately . Well it is not because it is a horror movie that is going to blow anyone away or surprise . It is simply a haunted house movie , a bit like " The Shining " , with there really being nothing new being added to the table other than the fact it is set in Russia . Everything else this movie has done has been done before , other than fact they literally let you know what is to become of our main characters . When the source of the horror is revealed you will be thinking , " that has been done to death " . Not that it was all bad , it is just the ending really makes this movie lose any steam it had . Weird things are established , mysterious tunnels never fully explored , strange noises never explained all done in by the simplistic source of the horror . What is the source ? Well if I told you that I would ruin the movie , however if you have seen any of the other numerous haunted house movies released the past four or five years , you shouldn't have to hard a time figuring it out . So great setup in this movie , good atmosphere , basically a could have been good horror done in by its ending . Though that is hardly a rarity in horror movies now is it ?
A slower paced version of " Horror Express " .	This movie resembles " Horror Express " in a couple of ways , mainly the fact it involves the finding of a prehistoric man that turns out to be some sort of monster . Unfortunately though rather than having the monster be the main focus this picture instead revolves around Peter Cushing's character's daughter . For the most part the film goes very slowly yet it is tolerable if you are a Christopher Lee and Cushing fan as I am . It also has some rather good moments though it is sad to say that the creepiest part of the movie is the painting at the beginning of the movie . There are also some good shots towards the end involving the monster . It didn't help that the DVD back gave away nearly the entire movie . Still though it has its moments and Lee and Cushing are as good as always , still though for a better faster paced movie " Horror Express " is the better choice . More killings , and the plot stays on track unlike this one where for some reason the movie had a segment involving this escapee from a mental institution that really did not add anything to the film at all .
" Call me when the Governor gets here , wait I am the Governor "	I saw this one at the theater , and while it is most definitely not Arnold's best , it is far from his worse . In fact , overall , I think it is an okay movie , which could have been a lot better . I like Arnold and his movies , I think he is a good and fun actor to watch . . . is he Oscar caliber ? No , but I still enjoy his performances and this movie is no different . His performance is an Arnold typical performance . One of the main problems with this one is the kid . I found him really annoying and he took the attention away from Arnold , but not in a very good way . In fact , I enjoyed the whole Arnold as a cop routine , I think that would have been a very good movie . . . even making it sort of a spoof would have been good . It is just the whole magic ticket thing and the kid kind of bog down the movie . This story has the kid going into a movie where Arnold is the star , and the last part of this movie is set back in the " real " world . By this time though I was thinking " shouldn't this be over " . The whole movie could have been a success and another blockbuster for Arnold if it was without the kid and the magic and the movie world and all that stuff . Just seeing Arnold in a cop movie where everything was made a bit goofy would have been great .
I need more ammo ! ! !	Yes , this game is basically a Resident Evil type game , that instead of zombies we get dinosaurs ! ! ! We also get a really attractive red head heroine , a rather interesting story involving some sort of device that opens portals , and we get lots of dinosaurs . Dinosaurs that are very hard to kill ! What we don't get is a lot of ammo to kill said dinos . In fact , we mainly use a pistol that does so little damage that it is maddening . Granted , later in the game you can devise a dart that kills the dinos instantly , but I want to shoot away to my hearts content in a game of this sort . Unlike Resident Evil where if you do run out of ammo you can still sort of fight with a knife , here you are sol if you are out of ammo . So near the end of the game I was just running past the dinosaurs hoping they wouldn't hit me instead of fighting and this is how I got through the game , and I apparently got a rather bad ending in the process . So basically , if I could have had a decent supply of weapons and ammo this game would have been a lot more fun instead of the hell it became ! ! !
Adult film featuring red headed gals . . . sort of .	This film was okay , the problem with it is mainly that the title says big nasty red heads and some of the girls in this movie are not all that red headed . There are only a couple of girls in this one that look natural . Most are dye jobs are brown and blonds with a reddish tint to their hair . This movie is also just a random assortment of clips from other movies trying to fill out this film whether the girls fit the bill or not . Some of the best scenes are to short , the last two in particular . These girls fit the bill , look cute and natural . The next to last featuring two adorable redheads and one dude and the last featuring a girl and guy outdoors that is rather hot too , but it is way to short . There is one scene in the movie featuring another red head that looks very natural , but it is only a oral sex scene with her working on a guy and I have never been a big fan of the guy getting oral in porn movies . Don't ask me why , I just do not care for seeing the guy all moaning and crap . A few semi decent sex scenes here and there nothing really bad , if this movie did not make itself out though to be exclusively redheads I probably would have liked it a bit more .
For a game based on a movie it was somewhat good .	Granted it had its share of odd moments too . Like the mysterious code you could put in that made Rambo shoot what looked like Asian letter characters at a certain character thus turning him into a frog . It also featured the nearly impossible final boss , a giant battle helicopter . I had all the health potion you could get and chucked grenade after grenade at that stupid thing I still ended up dying . I finally beat it one day , but only after inputting a code that made Rambo invincible and I chucked a lot of grenades for it to finally die and I thought there is no way anyone could take out that thing without that code . The rest of the game sort of played out like the movie , but sort of did not as well . I mean , I don't recall Rambo fighting to many gorillas in the movie . For the most part though it was cool as it had assorted weapons , you had areas where you had conversations with characters , and you had lots of gun fights . You also did not have the pit of death featured in many Nintendo games of this era . Still the game was annoyingly hard at times , especially that copter and it is a bit repetitive too , but compared to the Total Recall game it is great .
Easily my least favorite Final Fantasy game yet .	Do not get me wrong I enjoyed it somewhat seeing as how I am a role playing game fanatic . . . still I did not enjoy it as much as any of the other Final Fantasy games I have played . I looked forward to this one for so long too , as it took forever for it to be released , but the end result has to many mixed results for my tastes . First the fighting engine , I know they want to cater to us Americans who when a button is pushed an action must be performed , but give me the good old turn based fighting any day of the week . Especially , when I have more than one character to control . That isn't entirely fair though as the fighting has some turn based elements to it . . . the fighting is exactly the same as Knights of the Old Republic to be honest . It took me a bit to get a handle on it , but in the end it was okay and I was able to totally destroy the final boss of the game . However , to do so I had to level up and level up and level up . I have never spent so much time trying to boost my characters in a FF than I did in this one . I ended up taking at least over twenty hours of my 70 hours of playing time just leveling up . That is too much , you should only be required to level up that much if you just want to beat the extra bosses , not just the regular enemies in the field . Also , be sure to make good use of the gambits as that is how I finally won the game . Magic casting takes forever here too so that can cost you as well . Then it is too long , seventy hours and I did not complete all the extra stuff you could , I mean if I did not have a life or job sure I would love to have a game that long , but not when I am working and stuff . The story is okay as it follows a wannabe pirate named Van ( or the Tidus clone ) as he helps Princess Ashe ( the Yuna clone ) regain her kingdom . Accompying them are a former guardsmen , an actual sky pirate and his rabbit eared sidekick and a little gal named Penelo . The story has some interesting elements , but gets to political for my tastes . Also with the time you spend walking places and leveling you forget stuff and characters that will be important later become forgotten as they are not seen for long stretches . I think to myself , " who is he ? " and then oh yeah I saw him ten or so hours ago . Also , the whole sky pirate plot is a bit dumb here , as you might as well be walking pirates , because if you don't walk everywhere you will not level up enough to beat anyone . Still the character's are likable enough and the beginning part of the game is rather good , cut some time off of it and it would be great . . . the layout of the land is excellent though as this world is very detailed .
Somewhat good haunted house movie , but it lacks a real explanation .	This is a movie that has this very bad rock singer who suffers from headaches . I am guessing the only reason he sells albums is his appearance , but thankfully his singing isn't the focus of the movie . He is at a hospital where he meets this really cute brunette nurse who has very pretty eyes . The rock star takes some time off and hires the nurse to watch out for him . They go driving and they end up in this town they like and he decides that this is where they will stay . They go to the realtors and ask them to show them the most possessed house in the area . Well that didn't happen , but it might as well have . At first when I learned that the house was fully automated , I figured it would be a house goes crazy movie . Then there was the scene with the blood in the shower so it had to be supernatural , hence lies the main problem of the movie . There really isn't a satisfactory explanation as to why the house is possessed . I really felt the ending was a bit abrupt as well . On the plus side I wanted to see a haunted house movie and on that it delivered . There are some death scenes , the closing gate scene being the best , but you could almost predict what was going to happen before it did . The story moves like it is going to some super finish where all is revealed , but like I said nothing is really revealed except for the houses motivation for acting up . You do , however , get to watch a very cute brunette through the whole movie and after the beginning you don't have to put up with any more songs by the awful rock star . . . well one more , but it really isn't a big deal . Not a great movie , but it has its moments and it was a rather good haunted house movie .
Needs more dragon , less annoying king .	Here is a case where they got good actors in Dennis Quaid as the dragon slayer and Sean Connery doing the voice of the main dragon , but the story really was not very good . It has its high points , but to many low as well . The story of a really annoying prince turned king who is evil and the knight who blames the evil portion of him on a dragon that gave part of his heart to save him is just not all that good . The highlight of this movie comes in the form of the fight between the knight and dragon and their subsequent teaming to help the dragon slayer make a little money . Then the movie goes south again as the dragon is captured and we have just a typical movie without the title character the dragon which makes for a very anti-climatic last portion of the film that ended about how you would expect it to . The effects are okay , not quite on par with a movie such as Jurassic Park , but the dragon looks real enough . I am guessing they tried to keep him out of the movie as much as possible to keep the costs down , unfortunately this hinders the film and it is not as good as it could have been . Still it is worth a look .
If a deal seems to good to be true then it probably is .	A family finds the perfect place to stay for the summer . . . a mansion that although run down is still a rather nice place . How much is this place going to run for the entire summer ? Well it is theirs for only 900 dollars , the only catch is that they must take care of an elderly woman who lives pretty much locked in her room . The husband doesn't really want the place because something is not quite right , but his wife talks him into it . . . so off they go along with the son and the husband's aunt to spend the best summer of their lives . Not , this house is seemingly bad news and for some reason it appears that anytime blood is shed the house looks even better . The acting in this movie is rather good , as Reed turns in a rather good performance as does the kid and Bette Davis as the aunt . Karen Black is a bit strange in her performance and seems kind of blank at times . The story is interesting enough , I just wish a bit more happened in the movie . . . other than a pool incident involving father and son , this movie doesn't really seem to get going until the aunt has health problems and finally we have some more obvious supernatural happenings occurring . So we basically get most of the good stuff at the end with a rather good , albeit somewhat confusing ending . . . well not to confusing , other than I had questions about what was the deal with the mother . The house part I got perfectly well . I do believe this was probably a bit better in book form as there is just a lot of stuff that goes unexplained , such as what happened to the aunt , or what was the deal with the chauffeur . Still interesting enough to watch , at the end you will go they got so close , but they were so far away .
Fairly predictable romantic comedy , but worthy of a couple of laughs .	The only reason I saw this movie was because I was out on a date and I let her choose the movie . . . if it had been me I would have chosen the new " Amityville " remake . However , while this may not be the type of movie I usually like to see , it had some funny moments in it and it wasn't a boring movie either . Though it also is not a movie that is going to throw you off , or trick you either . It plays rather straight forward and is predictable , you will basically know the ending before it gets there and you will know just about everything else before it happens . Still though , it is not a bad movie and it caused a chuckle or two . This movie focuses on a couple , one a workaholic , the other a raving Boston Red Sox fan . You see the start of their relationship and watch it build over the movie and through a season of baseball where it really has its moments of near collapse . Barrymore and Fallon are rather good here , and both play there parts well , though I do like the way Fallon portrays a fan who is super obsessed with his team .
The weakest entry that I have played in the Zelda series .	Granted , I still found it somewhat fun to play . I hear there is a worse Zelda incarnation that came on this strange media player back in the 90's . I saw this system advertised on television and they did show a clip of Zelda and it did look rather bad , but I have never played it so I can not say for sure . This game takes place some time after part one and is a direct sequel to that game . Zelda has been put to sleep by some magician and Ganon's minions are trying to revive their former boss and all they need to do so is Link's death ! For some reason Link must once again go through dungeons to get what he needs to help awaken the princess . The story is a bit off here as I had no clue as to who was the main bad guy or who that one character was at the end that made Link's shadow come to life . That is one of the reasons this one is a bit weak . The play is different too , as this time you walk on a map like in an rpg and you encounter enemies who appear on the map and fight them in a side scroll level . The dungeons are also side scroll . Link also can visit towns and this is also a bit more rpg than the first , but the towns are rather bland except you can learn magic here which is also a new feature and somewhat pointless except for that cure and defense spell . You also level up in this particular Zelda game . So all in all it is okay and the most different of all the Zelda games so worth a try if you ever run across it .
A bit good , but I mainly like it because of Kelsey Grammar .	Yes , if he were not in this movie I would have probably knocked it down to a five or so . As it is he does a rather good job as the leader of his on submarine fool of misfits that it adds a bit to this flick . Granted it does seem almost like a television movie in terms of its quality , it is a comedy though so a cheap look does not detract from it as much as say a action movie . The story has Grammar as a naval officer who wishes to be in charge of his own sub . However , he has done things in the past that prevent this . He is given one chance though to change this as he must lead a rag tag crew on board a very old submarine against a very new and modern sub in a war game type scenario . Basic plot for the most part , a few other stars besides Grammar including Rip Torn , Bruce Dern , and William H . Macy . Rob Schnieder is also in it , but he is a bit annoying . . . happily he makes a nice exit midway through the film . Most of the crew is made up of actors that you have seen before , but mainly in smaller roles or as background type people . The comedy is okay for the most part , the plot somewhat predictable , still it is a somewhat good comedy worth a chuckle or two .
It was alright .	This movie for me was kind of overrated . I liked it ok , but it is really nothing special . Most of the movie is people looking off into the distance in wonder and amazement and it is a bit slow moving . I actually like part three the best in the series and two the least . . . this one is just an ok flick to me . Jeff Goldblum is good in this one as is Sam Neil . Neil would be good in the third , but Goldblum sucked in the second . The kids as some have mentioned are kind of annoying , but you learn to put up with it . Samuel L . Jackson is wasted in this movie , but this was before he was really a big name . Most of the movie is just people touring the park . . . then something goes wrong and the movie really gets going and is more enjoyable . Though only one character in the movie is killed in a really cool way .
Shut up Kid !	I relize it isn't the kid's fault , but I am here to tell you the voice he is dubbed with is so annoying that it almost ruins the entire flick . Can't a more appropiate voice be found , one that sounds like a real child and not one of those really wealthy ones . Other than that this isn't that bad of a flick , but it definately has some flaws . The movie seems to point this way and that , there are a ton of questions like who is the killer , has the father been in the town before , who is the babysitter really , and others . Unfortunately , only one of these questions is answered in this flick and it is the killer . The rest goes unanswered and where as the unanswered questions work in " The Beyond " here you wonder why it is brought up in the first place if you are never going to find out . Also to all the people that talk about the baby sitter wiping up the blood , I do believe the mother thought the blood came from the dreaded bat attack . One thing I can't believe though is that this movie has a higher rating than " Zombie " . Zombie just seems to me to be a more complete movie .
Not as good as the Road Warrior .	This film is ok , but it is not as good as the above-mentioned flick . Hopefully , when Fury Road comes out , it is more like Warrior and less like Thunderdome . Thunderdome finds Max having all his stuff stolen by a pilot played by Bruce Spence , just like the second one , but I don't believe they are supposed to be the same character . Max makes his way to a scummy town called " Barter Town " . He meets Tina Turner who does pretty good and they form an alliance to kill this one big guy in Thunderdome . . . an arena where fights to settle disputes takes place . There is a fight and Mad Max does in fact go beyond thunderdome , unfortunately the movie gets a bit weak in this section . Max runs into some kids in an oasis who tell really boring speeches and get facts all messed up . This goes on for a bit and finally there is more action as some of these kids go to " Barter Town " and Max has to get to them first . Then there is scenes involving a train that aren't as good as the truck battle in Road Warrior , but it is better than listening to those kids tell their stupid stories . All in all it is an ok film , but nothing great .
Not quite as perverted as the regular La Blue Girl series , but the story is more understandable .	Let me first start off by saying that I am reviewing the entire series here as I remember the whole story and am not sure how one leaves off or the other as I just bought the complete set . So what to say about this rather perverted Japenese hentai , well it is does have a rather interesting story , especially compared to other La Blue Girl titles which is somewhat good . However , the sex in this series is a bit reduced compared to the other La Blue Girl titles which made me a bit sad . . . yes I knew this was hentai when I bought it and yes I like the nudity and sex so sue me . So this is basically a story of Miko's first love who turns out to be some sort of relative or something of this one guy from way back who now wants revenge . The love of his life is trying to revive him and she has an interesting way of making herself young and beautiful again . It is up to Miko and gang to find out this strange couple's secret and try to stop them . You learn their tale late in the game and that of a demon who has ties to both of them , and how Miko's father ties into all this as well . You get to see some okay sex here and there , but not really as good as other La Blue Girl titles , the girls just are not enjoying the sex and the less they enjoy it the less I do . However , the story makes up for this as it actually makes sense and is somewhat interesting .
One of the more successful Friday's in the series .	This one actually had a rather impressive box office total for a horror movie in 1984 as it grossed over 30 million . In fact this one , the first one , and the third one are the only ones to do that . This one is pretty good , though not my favorite . . . part three is probably my favorite , but I am not a super fan of the series . This one has quite a few deaths in it and moves along quite nicely . It features a couple of stars I have heard of in Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover .
Could be remade as a horror .	I enjoyed this movie as a child , but looking back on it today it is almost a step or two away from being a horror movie . The strange red-faced people , children meeting with unfortunate accidents , and that boat scene . . . whoa ! In the end though this was a pretty good movie for kids even if it didn't really teach them very good lessons . I mean come on ; three of the kids weren't exactly that bad . . . only the spoiled brat deserved some punishment . In this movie though it is apparently evil to want to be a TV star , a fat kid , and someone who chews gum . The story is about a contest to get into the chocolate factory and of course the kids above win a chance , and so does the poor kid Charlie . Though considering how many kids have accidents in the factory they would have been better off in a knife warehouse . The red-faced dudes are a bit annoying , but Gene Wilder turns in an excellent performance . . . but what the heck is up with that scene on the boat ? All in all a good movie for children . . . one question though , how much stuff in that one room full of candy was actually edible ?
This chainsaw movie is a bit strange and has a crazy vibe to it .	This one was made in the 80's and it shows . The music , the picture quality everything screams 80's . It also has a bit of a Italian zombie movie feel to it as well thanks to the music and the make up by Tom Savani . . . this movie just seems kind of weird . The only remaining cast member from the original appears to be the cook from the first movie and he plays his role about the same . Gunnar isn't back to be Leatherface which is a shame , but the guy who took his place is all right . The story has a ranger or something played by Dennis Hopper looking for the chainsaw family as his relatives were killed in the original movie . The location of our favorite family , underground in what appears to be a theme park of some sort making award winning chili and preparing meats for all those hungry football fans . And yes this one adds a touch of demented humor to the mix . A really nice looking DJ with great legs happens to record a couple of dummies being killed by the chainsaw clan and tries to help Hopper find them , he ends up using her to find them . I found this movie okay , but to many underground scenes and another dinner scene kind of drag the movie down a bit . I would have liked to see them out and about more like in the first gruesome kill . There is a cool chainsaw fight at the end in which I have read where people have complained it was to short , but I thought it lived up to expectations . I do think I prefer the more recent remakes , however , as they portray Leatherface as a lot more intimidating , here he doesn't even get a good send off .
One of those movies that isn't very memorable .	There are just those movies you have a hard time remembering five minutes after you leave the theater . This is one such movie . Not that it was entirely bad , in fact it was an OK movie . . . it just wasn't very memorable at all . Jones plays a mad bomber and Bridges is a bomb squad member . Jones and Bridges though know each other from their Irish days . Some good scenes here and there , though for a movie called Blown Away there aren't as many explosions as one would think . At times this one gets quite boring in places too . Jones and Bridges are pretty good though and so is the elder Bridges as well . Some areas of this film are weak though like the scene where Bridge's wife walks through her house flipping switches and the screen flashes to these scenes where it shows what happens when you turn something on making you think there is a bomb somewhere . It is an OK movie , but nothing that will make you think long afterward .
The fighting is improved , but it is still the weak link of the three games .	Yes , I played a demo of this game and thought it was very cool . The music , the fight on the boat , and all that stuff . Then I played the full game and I found it rather weak compared to the first one as it really became rather repetitive as it were . The story is okay as the prince is being pursued by a super monster who most certainly does not care for the way the prince changed time around in the previous installment . The prince hears that the sorceress of time on some island is the key to stopping this unstoppable beast . He goes there and is promptly attacked by a rather scary lady . His ship crashes and he begins his quest to stop the sands of time from being created thus putting right in some strange way what he did wrong in releasing the sands in the first place . Can not release them if they never existed in the first place . Well it is okay , but you back track to much . The fighting is nice and fluid , but it gets old after a while . There is not enough of the wall crawling in this one either as they seemed more concerned with improving the fighting and adding nothing to the most fun aspect of the first game . The time shift stuff would be neater if you could shift through a couple of more times , still not all that many boss fights either . So in the end a step backward from the previous game for me , the whole making the game more bloody and stuff was unnecessary as was the heavy metal soundtrack as opposed to the great soundtracks of one and three . Still , it was good enough to be an okay game . . . just needed more work in a couple of areas and it quite frankly needed more areas .
Semi good horror movie from Singapore , but nothing most of us haven't seen before .	I liked the premise and from what I read on the box it sounded like it would be interesting , and I love a good ghost story . However , I was a bit disappointed by this movie . Not entirely mind you , it had a rather good cast and there was some good ghost moments . Still it was so thoroughly predictable . . . anyone who has seen say " The Sixth Sense " or " A Tale of Two Sisters " will have no problem with the shocking ending seen here . Other than it might be a bit more graphic than those two movies . The movie of a Phillipine girl who goes to work as a maid for a Singapore couple and starts her job during the time of the year when the locals must observe many customs relating to the dead or experience their wrath . Lots of burning paper and other very nice visuals during this part of the film . The job is quite easy from what I see too as the gal who was hired as a maid only does a little of this and that and when she does try to sweep up she gets in trouble with her employer . At least this gives or gal plenty of time to look after her employer's mildly retarded son and see all sorts of creepy stuff . My favorite was the play where she sat in the front row . So all in all a typical ghost flick with nothing really new to add to the mix except for a mysterious girl who dies by leaping from a food court . Didn't quite understand that one . So if you like this type of movie you may think it is an okay flick if you are looking for something new , this is not it .
Okay , but follows the comic book story it was based on too closely .	This game is based on I think a ten part series of comics known as Maximum Carnage . The play style is sort of like the type found in the X-men , avengers , and various arcade games which are like the old Double Dragon game . You go around the city busting heads , punching and kicking and using your web to fight those in the city affected by Carnage's influence in the city . You fight as either Spidey or Venom . You can also collect power-ups that summon forth other heroes found in this series and this is the drawback of the game . Well one of the drawbacks as Spidey doesn't really get to swing around the city all that much here either . I wish they would have made this one multi-player and made a few more of the heroes playable such as Captain America and Firestar . Also , the fights with the other super villains can be a real pain as they all attack at once a lot of the times . They also don't make some of them all that memorable . I would rather have a super fight featuring one maybe two of them at a time . Instead it is the same type of fight you have with random thug , only more annoying as is the fights with Carnage . The story is exactly like the comic , which is somewhat cool , but it also limits what the game can do . They only have the super villains and heroes present in that series and the story is too short for it as well . Still , I love a good fight in the streets and it does do that .
More of a comedy this time around .	This was an ok sequel to the original . Though I liked the first one much better . This time around one of those drums from the first one falls off a truck and these kids open it , once again awakening the living dead . This time around though , it is definitely more of a comedy than a horror . The first one had quite a bit of comedy in it , but in the end I would say it was more horror . . . this one has very little horror in it . A kid , his sister , and I think a TV or cable repairman must try to escape the living dead . There is also an old guy who was a doctor . There are also two grave robbers who are the exact two guys who released the chemicals in the first one and a girlfriend of the younger guy . Once again the zombies are seemingly indestructible , but this time a weakness is found in the form of electricity . So the conclusion to this one occurs at an electrical plant . The kid must face down the bully who released the chemical too . Would have been a better movie if it was more horror oriented , but it is still worth a look . The slimey zombie from the first one also makes a brief appearance .
Watch as a creature systematically takes over an apartment complex .	I rather liked this one a bit , though I can see from its score that I am in the minority in my opinion . Though at least most can agree this one is a lot better than the sequel . This movie has a family moving into a new apartment complex . Very quickly the little girl is taken by the title character and he takes her place . Throughout the movie the troll disguised as the little girl moves from one apartment to the next turning each room into a seemingly new dimension or something . The girl's brother has his suspicious and teams with this old woman to figure things out . The old woman seems to know a lot and she looks a lot better with her hair down . Soon the entire apartment becomes part of this world the troll is creating and the boy must finish it off because the old lady just is not in the position to help at the end . Rather fanciful and interesting . . . nothing to take to seriously , but I thought it was a rather good story and movie .
Would have been better if Campbell had been the star .	This one has a strange alien race once again trying to take over the Earth . It is like a robot and it uses what is around it to make itself bigger and stronger it can even use human parts . Starts out on Earth , but once they realize it came from the moon they go . And boy do they go . One scene they are on Earth , the next they are on the moon , when I first saw it I thought it was a dream sequence . All in all an okay movie even though the science it suspect . I just don't see setting up a tent on the moon . And couldn't the guys fighting the super robots get better weapons than Uzi's ? Bruce Campbell is in this , but he isn't the main character , I wish they had made him the main guy cause then the movie would have been better . On the plus side it is short and fast moving so it is over before you know it . Of course a little explanation could have helped . It is kind of a low budget version of that one Jamie Lee Curtis was in .
Somewhat funny spoof .	This movie had its moments , but I found too much of the comedy assumes you have watched all the scream movies and all the other lame teen horror of the 90's . So basically , it isn't a stand-alone spoof like Airplane or Top Secret . I have only seen bits and pieces of the scream series , so a lot of times I had to ask what they were making fun of . And what was with all the penis stuff . . . I don't think you saw one female part , but you saw plenty of the guys . The best part of the movie for me was the front part with Carmen Elecktra in the Drew Barrymore role from the first Scream . Not coincidentally , it is one of those scenes I have seen from the Scream series . The jokes come fast and furious making fun of scenes from this movie and that . Some of the other movies spoofed include " The Sixth Sense " and " The Blair Witch Project " . The Witch one was rather good too , but I had seen that movie . This movie is not the best movie ever made , but it is worth a chuckle or two . How it did as well as it did at the box office though is mind-boggling .
I enjoyed it better than the original version , but really nothing new .	Yes , this movie was a bit of a knock off of the ring , grudge and any other Japanese remake made in the past four or five years , still though I enjoyed it a bit . I thought it moved rather fast , and it was not boring for me so there you go . If I was a film critic I would lament the movie and curse its ever being made , but as just a dude who likes horror movies I liked it okay enough . This movie is a remake of a Japanese movie called " Kairo " , and I found this movie to be better than that one . It had better images and scary stuff . That movie was a bit overlong and did not really explain anything at all . However , this movie did explain to much . . . let me just say if you combine the two movies you would probably have a really good scary movie . This one is typical , everything is told to us and to be frank I hated the whole stealing the will to live thing . This was not in the original , but then this one only has some scenes that resemble each other and some of the plot is similar as well , but for the most part they are different . The movie has an eerie force coming through computers and other devices of a communication nature and coming after people . That is the extent of the film , nothing groundbreaking and certainly nothing original as the back of the box claims . I think it was wireless magazine that said it was the most original horror movie of the year , I am guessing this is the only one he has seen . This movie is more about ghosts coming to get you , while the Japanese version was more of a tale of loneliness and isolation that only gets touched on once here . So should you watch it . . . I don't know , if you are like me and give horror movies a break and enjoy them for what they are , an hour and a half cheesy diversion , then see it . If you tend not to like movies of this nature , basically " The Ring " and stuff skip it , you will not like it .
The ending saves this one .	For the most part this Predator highly disappoints . What hurts it is no Arnold and no really good star to take his place . Glover is ok , but he is just not a guy I want to see go one on one with the Predator . He just doesn't look like he will stand a chance . Yet , he is the main character in this one and for the most part this sequel moves a lot slower than the original . Glover is a cop in the middle of these drug wars . Unfortunately , the drug wars are a great target for the alien hunter , the Predator . So it starts killing left and right and we see Glover look for evidence . The movie finally gets good at the end as there is a great cat and mouse hunt with the Predator and Glover and Gary Busey who is part of some gov't agency who wants to get hold of the Predator alive . This last part of the film really saves this one from being a total disappointment , but it is still a let down .
Kurt Russell makes a fine science fiction soldier . . . to bad the story is a bit off beat .	Yes , say what you will about the bizarre plot and somewhat pointless setting of the movie on another planet , Kurt Russell did a rather good job as a soldier raised to complete missions and to follow orders to the max . His name , Todd , and you see how his life has been during a brief portion of the first part of the movie . It moves a bit to quickly after this to the old soldiers being replaced by artificially created soldiers who after a rather nice demonstration scene show they are superior as far as running and stuff goes so the military quickly ditches an apparently dead Todd and makes the rest of his outfit nothing more than regular Joe's . Well Todd is taken in a garbage spaceship to this planet of junk . Why they felt the need to have this movie take place on another planet is beyond me . Seems rather unnecessary as it could have easily taken place on an island that could have been turned into a landfill , but whatever , it does not really add or take anything away from the film . Suffice to say there are people on this planet and they take Todd in though they are wary of him . Finally , they decide to send him on his way as he is to dangerous for their tastes . Sadly Todd feels rejected a bit , but then comes his chance to show what he is made of as a military outfit consisting of the soldiers that replaced Todd are on the planet killing the people for a reason I can not remember at this time . Well finally we have some really good action scenes and a rather strange yet happy ending . The movie could have used a bit more of this and that . . . some more action , a few more alien lifeforms , and a better defined plot , but it is not all that bad and proves to be a nice distraction .
One of those movies released at the wrong time .	This is an okay comedy for me that has become quite the cult classic in its own right . Released in the summer of 89 a year of many big hits , this movie just got lost in the shuffle , but found a home at the local video store . It follows Yankovic's character as he gets to run a television station and turns what should be just a filler channel into one of the top rated networks on television on the back of a wacky children's show host . Al is rather good in his performance and Michael Richards is good as the janitor turned star , and the movie has some really funny parody scenes that I found to be the highlight of this one . There are problems though as the movie bogs down here and there a couple of times and there is not all that much going on . Still it is worth a look as it has some very funny stuff in it as well . So if you want to watch poodles learn to fly , a hilarious Raiders and Rambo spoof , a janitor trying to fight for his freedom from some goons then check it out .
Some good stuff in the cornfield .	There are some rather good scenes in this one though it is nothing special . The best scenes are when the kids first go on the rampage and another is when the one kid tries to escape through the cornfield and the corn opens up a lane for him . For the most part though not too much happens till the end and there isn't much in the way of killings after the two scenes I described . If you ever read the story though you know that there wasn't much to it so they did an all right job with this movie version . Though I definitely would not recommend this one be shown to kids like the one poster does . Not that it would scare them , but to show kids killing parents and being in a cult might not be such a good idea . Quite a few of the kids in this one look older than what they are portraying in this one . That isn't too strange though as it is done quite often . Though the kids that help the two adults who are passing through are most definitely kids , and they do a pretty good job . This one needed more though to be really good . More atmosphere , more mystery , and more killings .
After the first race you have seen it all .	This movie focuses on a gang of thugs who race cars and take the cars of the losers . Apparently , the leader of this gang is very possessing of his girlfriend . So much so he and his gang killed this guy who had slept with her . Now , a bit of time later this mysterious figure is challenging the gang to races and winning . Well , let me just say that this movie has its moments , but it needed something more . For the most part the races were all very similar to each other . Even the big race between the wraith and the leader of the gang at the end was no different to any other race the wraith was involved in . And how the heck does this gang of thugs get away with so much ? They should be behind bars , but for some reason the sheriff can't pin anything on them . There are quite a few flaws in this one , but overall it was an ok movie . There are some good scenes in it as well . Though at the end when the guy gave his car to the other guy it left me wondering " Wouldn't the cops be looking for that car ? "
Hot girls and one very good sex scene make this a passable porn .	Here is a case of a porn movie seemingly trying to have a plot , but failing miserably . Not that I care anything about a plot when there are lots of hot naked chicks running around and some good sex so I only really factor in the plot very little when it comes to adult films . Granted , if the plot is actually good too it is a definite plus . Here the story seems to be trying to be more complex than necessary , however the main two girls in this one are really cute and worth looking at . They have a scene that is so hot as the one good girl is having sex and the bad one comes in and takes over and she is just stunning in a nice full body stocking , to me this scene is the highlight of the film . The last scene is okay too , just not as good as this one particular scene . There are maybe one or two more decent scenes . What brings the movie down though is a scene involving these guys called Hyenas , there are at least four of them that I remember and the scene involves all of them and one girl and it is a scene that I just do not care for at all . Let me just say the circle around her and it is just not a scene I care for so I hit the fast forward button on that one . Also , I love red haired girls and there is a really nice looking one in this movie , but she has only like half a scene in this movie and it just seems like a waste to me . However , all in all a nice sexy adult sex movie with a plot best left ignored .
Satanists . . . they screw up every vacation .	This movie stars Peter Fonda as the Road warrior . Well that is what it turns in to . Well considering it came out before , you can't accuse them of stealing that concept . Anyway the plot of this film has two couples going on a ski vacation in a Winnebago . They stop in this field and the two men witness an apparent sacrifice . The sacrifice is performed by some cult and the cult give chase . Well after this the movie slows a bit , as it is the whole the police are hiding something routine . Well the vacationers have a chance to get away by acting like the police are going to handle everything , but instead they blow it by discussing their plans while some guy repairs their Winnebago's window . They go to a trailer park and then there is an encounter with two rattlesnakes then the movie becomes a chase as the Satanist chase the vacationers very persistently . During the chase these idiots just about fall into every trap the Satanist set . I mean these people should have figured out that these cultists had some connections , but they fall right into every trap . For the most part it is an action movie in these scenes that does remind me of the road warrior as that Winnebago smashes and rams the cult off the road . Then for some reason after the last chase the vacationers think they are in the clear and the last scene , which is straight from a horror , ensues . In fact the last scene almost doesn't seem to belong in the movie , which makes it effective . Though I bet the guys wish they had bought one more shotgun and two or three more boxes of shells . All in all a rather good movie , well an okay movie , but it could have used more scenes like the last one . Also , it isn't very realistic , I am betting there aren't enough Satanists in an area to be able to have that much influence and be able to set up those two traps .
Starts like a typical Asian horror movie then gets rather different .	This movie has a writer who has some trouble in her life at the particular moment the movie starts . An old love has resurfaced and she is having difficulty with her next novel . She is seemingly being haunted by a figure she wrote about , but then tossed away then she is somehow pulled into another realm . The movie does start off a bit slowly as there is a bit of set up with a few scares here and there like the typical Asian horror movie . Then when she gets to the other realm the movie is suddenly totally cool as it is so like watching a Silent Hill movie instead . I mean these strange ghosts start chasing our heroine and they move just like the ghosts in Silent Hill 4 , she encounters a cliff like in any of the Silent Hill games and she enters an area that looks like the industrialized zone in part 4 . Then she runs into an old man and the movie slams on the breaks and you get a few more great visual scenes , but the movie never has the energy it did when the heroine first enters this strange realm . There are still a couple of good visuals such as the mysterious creepy hanging people and the bridge and well . However , there are a few to many scenes that seem to need a push as it takes a while for them to get going and there are a lot of talking scenes and the final confrontation is very anti climatic . Then the ending comes and they throw a twist on top of the rather predictable twist and movie over . All I could think is what could have been if we had more scenes like that where she first arrived rather than say the scene with the flowers and neglected dead people which had no energy and rather light music . This movie also seems to want to be original , but it does not even come close . Other than Silent Hill there is also bits of The Neverending Story , Wizard of Oz , Spirited Away , and a host of other movies . I guess the makers of this film wanted to recycle a lot of other ideas where they might have been better off using just one or two .
Make it more of a horror movie and I would have loved it .	This movie has a facility that manufactures chemical agents and such in it . Well there is a problem at said facility and there is the movie . Well not quite , seems a deadly virus or something to that effect has been accidentally released . The lady working security and such locks the place down which is what she is supposed to do under the circumstances . Well people inside the place want out insisting they are fine and the family members on the out want in worried about their loved ones . Then the movie takes a twist and those infected become increasingly violent adding to the horror aspect of the film . If this movie had a bit more of the violent killer psychopaths I admit I would have enjoyed it more , still it made for an entertaining thriller . You keep hoping they will find a way to get rid of this infection , that they will be able to keep the relatives from totally going nuts and breaking in , and you hope those trapped inside stay inside because if not the world will become exposed . Interesting movie that would have been more of a film I liked had they moved a little faster to infection starting to really make the people go crazy .
Wahlberg is just plain horrible .	If it wasn't for him , I would have liked this movie a lot more . Part of it isn't his fault as the stupid story has his motivation for going into space to find his monkey that disappears . So he risks his life and that of the ship's crew to find his monkey . I can't really back a guy that stupid . Then the parts that are his fault is that he is just a bad actor and has a look about him I just don't care for . Of course , he ends up landing on a planet run buy super monkeys . The people playing the monkeys do a very good job with their parts . I don't have anything bad to say about them , except that their good job makes Wahlberg look even worse . Tim Roth is great as is Carter . All the apes do well . Kris Kristofferson is not in the movie enough and is killed relatively early . I wish he were in it more ; they needed one good human character in this one . Also , Charlton Heston makes a brief appearance in this one , this time as a monkey . The ending to this one makes no sense though as the original it did .
Why you just don't assume someone is dead .	This movie had some good stuff in it and was rather good for a simple revenge flick . This one has a group of older men hunted by some sort of well , ghost . Why a ghost is haunting them . . . revenge . You will have to see the movie for yourself to find out why the spirit of this dead woman has it in for these old guys . She also goes after one of the older guy's son . Some deaths here and there , but nothing to graphic from what I remember . Though it is funny to see the one lady who was in that Star Trek movie in it . She looks younger , but still basically the same . Interesting enough movie if there is nothing else to do .
Okay , just could have been better .	For an adult film it is shot very well and stuff , but with the exception of the magazine scene the movie's sex scenes left a bit to be desired . The first scene involving a teacher is rather good in its set up , but it leaves you wanting more as the actual sex lasts maybe a minute with to much lead up to it . A scene at a gym just does not really get going good at all as once again the actual sex is not really all that great same with a car scene . The two scenes that actually have rather good sex are the end scene involving two gals and a guy and the highlight of the movie , the second scene involving all the magazine girls in a rather nice lesbian scene . By far the best scene to me as you had lots of girls the only thing I did not care about that scene is the occasional shots of the guy rubbing himself . However , even in the scenes that do not hit a bullseye the women are really cute and have that 80's flair to them as I always think girls of the 80's are still some of the hottest there was as they had really pretty hair and wore lots of eye shadow . Granted the 70's girls were rather pretty too as they had a more natural look . All in all if they would have just had a bit more actual sex and less foreplay in the other scenes it would have been a much better adult film .
Rather funny spoof making fun of Robin Hood Prince of Thieves .	Really the last Mel Brooks movie that I know of that was rather funny . Much better than the later Dracula Dead and Loving it , as this one does not get no where near as boring as that one did . Cary Elwes is great in this movie as is all the cast . The main problems stem from the fact the movie seems to run a bit long for a spoof and it is almost a scene for scene type deal doing Robin Hood Prince of Thieves . Though it did have a very funny scene spoofing the stick fight . I also liked Lewis ' moving mole and the witch made me chuckle too . The story as I said is basically the same as the movie it spoofs , with a great more detail to the craziness of it all . Like Robin's return to his homeland . The original movie hit him hard with various bad news , and this one takes it the extra mile with all the tragedies and people dying ( pets to I might add ) . There is a rousing musical interlude , an arrow contest which is one of the few scenes that spoof Robin Hood movies in general rather than just the Prince of Thieves . With all that is good though the movie suffers from the fact there are no super funny jokes . Just ones that make you chuckle and on more than one occasion simply fall flat . Still , it is worth a watch as it is the last Mel Brooks movie that came out that is worth watching .
You have to give it credit for being different .	Not that it is a really good movie or anything , it is an okay film that is rather interesting . I do not think I am going out on much of a limb when I say I am betting the book was better . Just a feeling I get , as this movie has parts of it where a viewer can get a bit lost . Plot points and key events seem to be missing from this film . It would have also been useful to know what certain characters were thinking , something you just can not do in a movie that you can do in the book . Still , the film was different and David Cronenburg was absolutely great as that weird doctor guy and by far the creepiest guy in the film which is rather good considering all the strange creatures there are in this movie . The story is hard to explain , a young man is seemingly called to his old cemetery . He believes he is becoming some sort of monster and this cemetery is home to these strange monsters that do have bite to them , but for the most part seem okay . They seem to have an entire city under the cemetery . There are all sorts to , though the porcupine one and the berserker ones stick out most in my mind . The doctor played by Cronenburg has strange motivations and the young man at the beginning copes with some strange changes . Like I said interesting enough , but it just seems to much was left out or something , or maybe it was a short story and to much was added in .
A movie whose ending just about screws up the rest of the movie .	This movie had its moments and was for the most part okay . It was certainly better than " The Haunting " . It has these people who must spend the night in an old asylum to collect some money . Unfortunately , it isn't long till something unseen begins to stalk our friends . Strange images appear on the monitor , people are seemingly killed . Then the movie ends exactly the same way as " The Haunting " did . Here comes the black smoke cgi ghost to mess up the rest of the flick . Why they thought they should do this is beyond me , I never saw the original , but I am positive nothing like that happened in it . So instead of maybe having the creepy doctor on monitor being seen we see a shapeless blob , who when it kills it is nothing really special at all . The ending kills any momentum that had occurred during the rest of the movie . Well I didn't care for the husband wife plot point all that much either . I would have preferred it being everyone slowly stalked and killed by the evil in the house with no cgi used .
Needs more development . . . but still rather hot .	Kind of a sex simulator , but not really . In the end you are just picking different sexual situations and seeing what they recorded . Really not enough to it . Miko Lee is hot and very good looking , but she is not at her best here as she goes through the motions in most of the scenes . Well she is good in about half I would say . The DVD lets you pick whether you wish for her to be naughty or nice and she seems to confuse nice with really stupid instead . She is pretty good in the naughty role however . You get to see her tease , pleasure herself , do different things with some dude off camera and have sex with him too . You can't really pick what you want her to wear or where she is having sex . I also would have liked to have seen more masturbating and less sex with the dude just out of view except for his private parts . They also could have had more camera angles . This one is also underdone compared to another one of these I saw with another pornstar . In that one the DVD had more to it , the sex scenes were a bit longer and in the menu you saw DVD shots of the girl and she talked dirty to you . Here all you see is a picture of Miko . I know a DVD can only contain so much , but they really should have worked on filling it up more with more stuff and activities for you to see . Maybe a striptease or something . It seems Miko was in a rush or something while filming this and that we got a rather underdeveloped sex simulator . It is still rather hot in places though enough to make you all warm and bothered inside .
I can see the string !	I remember this movie coming on numerous times on HBO and Cinemax when I was a kid and I watched it every chance I could . I know now that it was a cheesy movie and if I watched it again it would probably be not as good as I remembered , but I did like it when I was a kid . Sure most 3-d movies do the hokey sticking stuff in your face routine , and this movie is no different , but I still enjoyed it . Even though during one scene of the movie you can see the string on the " flying " key . The parts I enjoyed most are the first and last parts of the movie . The lead guy in the first part has to get through various traps to retrieve this key thing . I always love boobey traps . The middle just consists of him recruiting people to help retrieve the two crowns . Then it is like a spy movie as they break into some cults palace that has numerous traps . And yes there were only three crowns , one only had paper , the other two had gems , the forth one supposedly was broken by someone who tried to open it without the key . I don't think this was in the original foriegn version . I think it was mentioned only because Treasure of the Three Crowns just doesn't have the same type of ring to it . In the end many of the characters die , and perhaps they get the stones or not . . . I would say but I don't want to spoil the really dumb ending .
Better when I saw it as a kid .	I first saw this movie at the drive in when I was four years old . I really enjoyed it then , but I didn't understand what was going on . Now that I am older I know what is going on , but man there are sure a lot of visible strings . It also doesn't have the pop it did back then either . The story is rather interesting as it is a bit like that of the more recent " Event Horizon " . A ship that has been missing is found near a black hole . The doctor on the ship is preparing to enter the black hole as part of an experiment . There are a few stars that people know in this one , but no one really big . Anthony Perkins and Ernest Borgnaine are the biggest . Schell is also in it and so is Robert Forster who was in the movie " Alligator " . Perkins and Borgnaine aren't really in this one a whole lot though . There are a few fights and other things in this one , as it was probably made because of " Star Wars " . The effects though are definitely not the best as this film was probably rushed to be made . Not the best movie in the world , but I could think of worse ways to spend your time .
Shows you how out of touch I am . . . I actually like this one .	I don't like it that much , but overall I did enjoy it . In fact , I like it a lot better than any of Wes Craven's later stuff ( yes I am referring to " Scream " ) . Though in the end this is just a different take on the hit horror movie " Alien " . People in a facility hunted down by a strange demented beast ( in this case an altered human who is seemingly indestructible ) . It worked for me the most part when I caught it late at night on the television . Lance plays a scientist who goes back to the facility after being away for a bit and the experiment has gone berserk . If that is not bad enough he has brought along his daughter ( or was it his son ? ) . There is a lot of claustrophobic scenes , and a lot of kills . . . nothing original , but it was applied nicely here .
Why you just don't assume your game is going to be a success .	Yes , this game is a typical multi platforming games being that there are many different play styles in the same game . You do standard platforming like in Jak and Daxter , you race a bit , you shoot guns , and you fly a spaceship . . . you fly that spaceship a bit to much for my tastes near the end of the game . You are Haven and you are a worker or basically a slave at the hands of this rather evil empire . There is a legend though that says in times of trouble you ring this bell to summon the king and he will thwart the evil . For the most part it is okay and there are a lot of modes of play , still the story totally blows at the end as it is obvious they thought this game was going to be super great and they would be making a sequel so at the end you get kind of a incomplete end . And considering how many years it has been since this one's release anyone who has played this or will play it will never know how the story was supposed to end . The platforming was fun , I also enjoyed the shooting stages . There were a couple of stages that drove me crazy , and the spaceships is just boring . Your weapons of choice is a yo-yo type weapon , and you also use blasters too . So be prepared for a lot of variety at the beginning then it kind of is just you in your ship and hamster ball and that is about all there is to it besides the unfinished ending .
Not as good as first Mechagodzilla movie .	This one starts out ( in the American version anyway ) , basically combining the two battles between Godzilla and MechaGodzilla from the previous movie while editing out the stupid furry monster . The aliens have rebuilt MechaGodzilla and with the help of a scientist have gained the help of another monster called Titanasaurous ( I know that is probably spelled wrong ) . Of course you know there is going to be a big battle with these two going against a solo Godzilla . There is also a subplot involving some guy in love with the scientist's daughter and a weapon designed to hurt the dinosaur with the hard to spell name . The battle is pretty good in this one , cause this time there is no stupid monster to help Godzilla and steal the glory like the dumb fuzzy monster in this one . Though I still liked that one better .
Never take witchcraft as your major at college .	This movie had some good points and was rather good , but as is the case with a lot of horror movies , it needs more . This one has a gal who goes to a town to further her studies in witchcraft . Her teacher played very well by Christopher Lee tells her about it . She gets there and finds a perpetually foggy town full of very strange characters as she checks into the Raven's Inn Hotel . She walks the town , meets the local reverend and his daughter also . Well something happens to her and her brother and her boyfriend investigate what happens to her and they learn the secret of the town . Nothing to shocking about this movie , but it plays out very well . Could have used a bit less fog in town , because there was quite a lot of it . The town also has the feel of a set rather than an actual town . There are a couple of questions I had when I saw it too , like why did they seem to want the brother present for the final ceremony . Still not bad considering I got this movie on a DVD with another horror movie " Carnival of Souls " .
It was all right , I just did not care for the focus .	To be honest I never really had the urge to watch this particular Dragonball Z movie . I knew how the story went and had no real urge to see it played out with some exceptions . Still I am watching the seasons of Dragonball Z now and at the android saga and my girlfriends cable went out and she had this so I decided to finally see it . Suffice to say it was okay . I really wanted to see the other characters demise as Tien , Kuririn , Piccolo , and Vegeta's defeat at the hands of the androids only got very brief scenes . Instead most of it is just watching the androids kill and terrorize which was somewhat interesting as you could tell they were more cold blooded than the androids that came to be after Trunks visited the past , you could also tell they were weaker as adult Gohan and Trunks could fight both of them for a bit , while the ones in the series tore through their stronger foes at first with ease . The story focused a lot on Trunks and Gohan and their scenes just were a bit much to watch . Also , you basically knew how the fights would end and how the story would end so there were no real surprises . As I figured before I ever watched it , there was nothing really there to see . What Trunks told the guys in the past covered it well enough to me .
Hey Pinhead is finally the star .	After the first two movies being the most popular character and having very little screen time , finally Pinhead is the focus . Ironically , this one is rated lower than the first two , so maybe he was better off in the background . I actually like this one about the same as two and I liked two better than one . So I did like this part better than one also . I am guessing though , this one isn't liked as much because it really is more of your standard slasher rather than the twisted world of the first two so I can understand why people didn't like it as much . This one has Pinhead actually separated from the human he was . He is still part of this macabre statue seen at the end of part two and he is now owned by a very odd art dealer . This and that happens and before long Pinhead is unleashed on earth killing everyone in his sights and changing them into more weird beings like him . There is also this lady involved I think she was a reporter and she has a dream of the guy who Pinhead was . All in all I thought it was okay , but this is the last Hellraiser movie I watched and from what I see here there are quite a few more of them .
Almost like two different movies	Watching this movie , anyone can tell that two people directed it . Also , that both had something different in mind when they were doing it . Fulci I believe was going for supernatural zombies and Mattei went for the strange chemical that turns people into zombies like in his " Hell of the Living Dead " . I also think he saw " Return of the Living Dead " , because some of the scenes in this one will make you think about that one . In the end Mattei's storyline is the one that is the dominate one , mainly because he did the editing . It probably would have been better if Fulci finished it , but I think he quit because it just was not up to his standards . The results , a terrorist for no reason steals a dangerous chemical that turns people into zombies and the army tries to cover it up while a bunch of people at a hotel try to survive . Once again this is not what I believe Fulci intended , I think he was going for a plot more similar to " The Beyond " , but what we see on screen is another evil army cover-up movie .
It started out really interesting .	Then it starts to make little sense and you get one vague scene after another . It starts out promising enough with James Woods at the helm of an obscure station that tries to push the edge of its programming with graphic sex and violence . A person shows him an apparent broadcast from somewhere . The program's name " Videodrome " . They find out where it is from and his girlfriend apparently tries to get on , and low and behold the Woods character gets to see his girlfriend on the show apparently getting killed . Well he tries to solve the mystery , and the more he finds out the more confusing the plot gets and less interesting as it started out . Worth a look though .
Okay Godzilla game , but there is room for a lot of improvement .	The games main story mode has a humorous introduction as a rather strange looking alien declares they have control over earth's monsters and that it is useless to resist . Then the camera was supposed to fade and the alien is like " are we still on " ? That type of humor is needed more in this game as is better level development or perhaps more monsters . If the game could have just let you control Godzilla and fight levels where at the end you fight one of the other monsters as the boss of the level it could have been a more fun game . They have a game like that for the Nintendo and while the graphics are bad it is more fun to play . The game is Godzilla , why not have him progress through a level then have an epic battle with one of his adversaries ? I would not mind the brawler format so much if they would have more monsters . Mothra , Hedorah , and Space Godzilla could have all been playable characters and there are more than those in the Godzilla universe so why not add them ? The fighting is also a bit weak as in the movies Godzilla's ultimate attack is is radioactive fire breath . . . here it is not very strong at all being one of the weaker attacks . Still , I am a Godzilla or Gojira fan and I enjoyed playing the game for the most part . It is nice using Godzilla to pound my way through the other monsters , with a bit of tweaking this game could have been could have been something special .
Not all that great . . . but ok .	First let me say that I am not a raving mad Star Wars fan who would enjoy anything as long as it had the name Star Wars pasted to it . This movie was not a really great spectacle to behold , but it is better than episode I . Neither of these two movies though can compare to the original triology . Some faults of the movie is the bad acting . I mean these actors are quite bad at times and at other they are no better than mediocre . Quite frankly , I never knew just how boring a jedi was . McGreggar is so dry as Obi Wan . I hope in the next movie they explain how he got to be a much more interesting old man . Samuel L . Jackson is in the wrong role , he would have been better used as a Han Solo type character than a dry jedi who plays second fiddle to Yoda who is the only decent jedi actor . Then there is Hayden . He is the worst actor in the flick . He constantly whines and complains about everything . I never pictured Darth Vadar being such a wimp . Portman does better though than the last flick so maybe Hayden will do better in the next flick . I think part of the problem is Lucas just doesn't like spending to much time directing the people as he does doing special effects . Jar Jar also returns , and he is in it a lot more than the commercials would have you believe . Then there was my favorite character in the movie who did the best job . . . Christopher Lee . Then again he could play this type of role in his sleep . There are good points to this flick besides Lee . The special effects give you something to look at when Anakin and Amidali are talking politics , there is a great battle at the end , and the saber fight between Lee and Yoda was great . All in all not to bad of a flick , but I suggest next time Lucas may want to get someone else to direct the actual actors and devote all his time to the stuff he does well .
Not really my nastiest fantasy or wet dream , but pretty good .	This movie is an okay adult film . Not quite one of those movies that are just one random sex scene after the other this one interjects a bit of story in it to progress from one scene to the next . Of course , the sex scenes are a bit longer and are the main point of the film . The story which is not exactly a work of art , but moves rather well a researcher is trying to make a sex robot or something to that effect . I could not tell if it was supposed to be a robot or some sort of artificial life or something . I mean this is a porno so not much money is going to be spent . You get to see him try to make robots or whatever then test them , then meet at the bar with people who recount their tales of passion in hopes their tales will inspire the researcher and improve on his project . There are two sex scenes like this and three involving the testing of the droids or whatever . I like the two involving the bar people's stories the best . One involves a very hot gal in red lingerie who has a bit of weight on her , but I somehow find this makes her look even better . The other involves a very cute blond in a picnic like setting . This one is the highlight of the movie for me . Then there is the first robot scene that does not have the twins of the title and the two with the twins . They are all right , nothing special the final one being rather anti-climatic after the picnic scene . Still , a rather good sex flick . . . you have your bit of plot that progresses to rather good sex so fun to watch .
A bit of a let down to me .	Yes , this one came out near the end of the super Nintendo era , however , it was released only slightly after the very cool and different game Chrono Trigger . I was quite frankly expecting something grand here too . Alas , I found the game had way to much fighting and it needed a bit more pop in the story . The story has a young kid and his dog transported to the magical realm of evermore . A place that seemingly consists of differing eras in it , and his dog converts to fit each one . He becomes a prehistoric dog , a poodle , and even a robot . The scenes are somewhat funny , however , this game does not have the fastest flow in the world and was very weak to me in the combat . The last world where your dog is a robot is rather weak to as it is just about all combat . I think the humor was good and it needed to be more of the focus . More like the monkey island games with some combat as the boss fights were at least a bit more fun the the rest of the fighting .
One of the weakest for me in the hensei series of Godzilla movies .	It probably has something to do with the fact I have never been a big Mothra fan and hate it when they fight each other , because Mothra should not do as well as it always does . Lets face it , it is a giant moth and they should burn to a crisp when hit by fire . Still this one starts out promisingly enough with a nice little comical jungle adventure . Still when it is the scenes with the people that are the strongest and not the ones with Godzilla then you are probably in trouble . Godzilla is in this one a bit more than the previous movie , but this one just is kind of dull . To much singing for Mothra to come and such , and watching Mothra trample through the city is always boring cause Mothra just doesn't compare to other monsters doing the same . We also have another monster a tougher version of Mothra called Battra that wants to fight Mothra . Near the end they fight and Battra is beating Mothra and Godzilla literally saves Mothra so what does it do ? It joins forces with Battra to attack Godzilla . Godzilla is to much of a secondary monster here , with to much focus on the stupid moth . Still it has its entertaining moments such as Godzilla's first appearance and his resurrection on the volcano . More Godzilla less Mothra would have helped however .
It is not what it looks like .	I bought this movie as " Revenge of the Dead " , the cover had zombies rising out of the ground . Thankfully , I knew when I bought it , that it is not a zombie movie per se . I can see why people get ticked , but I rather enjoyed this movie . One person wrote it had good atmosphere and I would be inclined to agree . The plot is basically , a writer gets a present and for some reason is inclined to read the ink ribbon which reveals places known as k-zones . These are places where if a dead body is placed they come back . There are numerous things I have a problem with though despite enjoying it for the most part . Like why is this writer so obsessed with finding out what the k-zones are . There is a part where he talks to someone on the phone and you can't hear what is being said , and the movie kinda fizzles near the end . In fact the best zombie attack is at the beginning of the movie .
My favorite killer bat movie .	Not that I can think of any others . In fact , the only other killer bat movie I know of is " Bats " and it looked really bad . This one though I liked . . . as a kid anyway . It used to come on HBO and Cinemax all the time when I was a kid and I watched it numerous times , it was a horror movie that was PG and easy to see , a rarity in those days . This movie is of course about killer bats terrorizing an Indian reservation . There are conflicts of culture and other messages of this sort , but for me it was the killer bats . David Warner is in this one as a researcher , and he has a rather good scene where he is stuck hung up in a most dangerous position . There is also another Indian , who I think was some sort of law enforcement agent or some sort of park supervisor who is also trying to find out what is behind the strange killings . There is a good scene where the bats attack this group in the desert and many other good bat attack scenes . There are also a number of scenes that may be happening or they may just be a hallucination .
It needs something more .	This movie has some good moments , and it had a good actor in the lead ( James Woods ) , but it just needed something more . This movie has a tendency to bog down more than once in explanation and talking scenes . Not that there is anything wrong with those , but in this movie these scenes do slow down the pace . Part of the problem is the fact that the movie started out quite fast . The opening scene of them going through the house then killing the vampires was really cool . Then they shift to a celebratory party where the head vampire comes and kills the entire gang of vampire hunters . Then there is a great chase scene with the lead vampire , and finally Woods has to torch the motel they were at so no more vampires will be born . Sounds great doesn't it ? Unfortunately , this all happens within the first fifteen or twenty minutes of the movie and afterwards it just doesn't reach the level it achieved again . Even the ending is very anticlimactic as they really don't show anything . Still though it isn't entirely boring or anything , but you just wish maybe they kept up the fast pace they set at the beginning of this one .
Did not realize I was going to see " Mirrors 2 " .	I know this movie is not a sequel to the movie " Mirrors " with Kiefer Sutherland that was released August of 2008 , but man this movie did use mirrors a lot too . So what do we get here besides the usage of mirrors as an instrument for evil spirits to enter our world ? Well we get another potentially really good horror movie that falls short and is now just an okay horror movie at best . So on to the story and then to what went wrong . The story has an attractive girl seemingly being stalked by an evil spirit in the form of a boy ( a boy who looks like a really evil version of Eddie Munster ) . She sees visions and has nightmares and one of her eyes is beginning to turn blue . The kid she is babysitting is getting really creepy and tragedy also strikes this boy's home in another fashion . The girl learns a few things though such as the fact she had a twin brother who died in the womb and she learns other dark secrets from an old woman at an old folks home . In the end she enlists the aid of a Rabbi , and he along with a bunch of other people perform an exorcism to try and drive out this evil being that is haunting her . Gary Oldman plays the Rabbi and he adds a certain something to the film and the lead actress is rather cute to look at . What is wrong with this picture you ask ? Well they basically tell you what the thing is that is haunting the girl , but they leave a bunch of stuff out such as why did the one kid do that thing with the baby involving a mirror ? What was the significance of the blue eyes ? Why was the main girl's best friend so annoying ? All these questions plus a certain feel the movie had that made it feel a bit more like a television movie rather than one on the big screen . However , it goes by rather quickly and it passed some time so all in all it was an okay film , with like the movie " Mirrors " had a lot of mirrors and an old lady that held the answers , and was basically about an evil spirit targeting a certain person for possession .
Think " Short Circuit " if the robot turned killer instead .	Yes , if the robot in " Short Circuit " turned into a homicidal maniac when it was struck by lightening then this would have been the result . This movie has this super robot drones that patrol a mall going berserk and killing everyone in site . Why a mall would need such protection is beyond me , but I can role with it . It is not an award winning movie , but it is somewhat enjoyable in its cheesiness . A bunch of teens go to a mall for the night and have their party screwed up by the security robots . . . nothing to take seriously , but it is fun . Why this movie is called " Chopping Mall " is beyond me , because no one is chopped up here . Another more appropriate title for this one is " Killbots " and it works a lot better . This one also features the cute gal from " Night of the Comet " in it so that is cool too . This movie is just your typical 80's horror movie with a robot spin to it . Worth checking out if you like a goofy horror movie every now and then .
Whatever you do , avoid watching the edited version of this movie .	Somewhat creepy horror movie with a supernatural edge to it , kind of a more horror oriented " Hand that Rocks the Cradle " . Basically , a couple with their first child hires a nanny with a very dark and disturbing secret . She has chosen this baby for a reason and it is not to simply make it hers . As far as horror movies it is somewhat good , it has some gore , a couple of tense scenes and some nudity . However , if you watch the cut version of this movie the whole thing changes to the point almost all the scares and creepy stuff is taken out . They seem to completely edit over the first scene involving the baby taken to the tree , a scene later with the mother makes it out that the child survived and is safe and sound . The regular version is not so chipper . The ending is screwed up to as it ends earlier and they basically cut out the final scene . I realize that you want to cut out some stuff so you can show your movie on the happy time family network , but in the end you should not edit a movie to the point its plot and meaning change . So for an okay horror movie with some creepy scenes and such give this movie a shot , for a pedestrian movie with basically no scares and all creepiness removed try and find the cut version of the film .
A good movie . . . I think .	I am still not sure what this movie is about . I have seen it 3 or 4 times and still can't quite figure it out . Sure some of the scenes make perfect sense , and then there are those that make you say , huh ? If you watch this movie try seeing it uncut as the ending at least makes sense . I first watched it on the sci-fi channel and it just ended and I was left to wonder what the heck happened to Sean Connery's and the lady's characters . Suffice to say if you see it uncut it shows you and even if a bit depressing you at least find out . Though I am still not quite sure when Connery and the lady fell in love . This movie revolves around an outlaw I would call him coming into this dome world full of immortals . This immortals used Connery and others on the outside to do crops and stuff and to kill . They catch Connery and study him . . . meaning eventually kill him , but they never get round to it . There is a lot more to the plot , but it is hard to explain so I will leave it at that . Let's just say Connery's character disrupts these immortals way of life . The thing with the crystal and stuff will confuse you though . There is also a good deal of nudity in this one , but these ladies are a bit , um how would you say ? Flat chested so there really isn't anything to exciting there . All in all a sort of good movie . . . I think ?
I think the makers of the film thought we had somewhere to go .	This movie is the sequel of course to the hit movie " Men In Black " . I gave this movie a six , but I felt like being generous ( I probably should give it a five ) . This movie is short . I mean really , really short . There is a short that preceded the movie so that tells you how short this movie is ( the short got more laughs than the movie I think ) . I went to this movie knowing how short it was , but it just went by so fast and the movie was a bit unmemorable that it was a waste of time to drive to the theater . There was no time for character development or much story development . In fact , the opening credit scene itself took four or five minutes . The story has Smith's character trying to get the memory back of Jones character to battle an alien threat . For the most part there isn't much that is funny in this one , but there are a few scenes to make a person chuckle . Then there is the pug dog . I think it had the same screen time as Tommy Lee Jones . It was funny in small doses , but its role was expanded way too much for the sequel . Johnny Knoxville's character was lame as was the main villain , which had looks but no funny dialogue at all . Tony Shaloub is back , and once again his character's role is small and underused . So all in all this is an inferior sequel by all means with just enough to look at to keep you from getting bored . If they ever make a part three , please let them get a director who is capable of making a movie .
If you want to see a really short horror movie that is rather good this could be it .	It isn't super great mind you , but it is rather interesting from what I remember . A group of people stranded in a rain storm come upon a house and seek refuge there . Like many other movies that have this premise , things are a bit odd , as the house is the home of a man and his wife who are very avid doll makers . You can see where this is going , this is a killer doll story sort of like " The Puppet Master " and " Demonic Toys " only this one is better than those . Though it still has humor in it like those two as well . Still though it is an okay horror movie and it does have one memorable scene that was rather funny . . . the one where the little girl imagines her stuffed bear getting big and killing her step parents ( I don't remember if either parent was her natural one ) . Also stuck in the house some guy and a couple of hitchhikers ( at least I think there was two ) . As you can tell it has been awhile since I saw it . I do remember it ended okay . Like I said nothing to great , but worth checking out .
Okay monster flick that tries to deliver a message .	This one comes on AMC an awful lot , so I watched it . Not as bad as some have said to me , but it could have been a lot better . They just try to have to much of a message and not enough killer monsters for my tastes . This one has the evil corporation that pollutes the waters and this of course mutates everything . One of these mutants is a bear that looks okay and is certainly the highlight of this movie . The whole Indian subplot and other things though really slow this one down . The movie goes very slowly for a while then finally picks up near the end where it ends to abruptly for my tastes . I think it would have been better if they had less Indian polluting plot at the start and added more of the bear hunting down the people at the end . There are a few other mutants to be seen , but the bear is the main one . The only other two I remember were the tadpole and the trout . There is also a rather funny death scene that involves the mutant bear and some campers . Let's just say it was the scene with the sleeping bag . I thought it was okay , but it could have been better .
This horror movie is filled with clichés to say the least .	Yes , this film is not original it borrows heavily from other films such as " The Grudge " , " The Amityville Horror " , and even " Mortuary " to name just a few , but it still entertained me for the most part as at least it was short and fast moving , granted you don't need a degree in criminal justice to see the ending coming a mile away . I will say " Don't look at the back of the DVD " ! ! before seeing it as that will in fact totally ruin the movie . This movie has a family uprooting Chicago and moving to North Dakota to start a sun flower farm which is about the only original thing about this film ( the sunflower part , the uprooting has been done to death ) . Of course , here come the clichés , the cell phone with no reception , the recurring stain , the " has there ever been anything strange that happened at that house " question , the people not believing the person trying to warn of danger , and even a creepy kid . Yes , they are all here to guide us along our story with a few supernatural happenings and Jake the Snake Robarts makes an appearance too as a dude looking for work ( I know it isn't him , but it sure did look like him ) . So we get crow attacks , this and that , the ending is a bit to happy , but then at least it went by fast .
Could have used more , but an okay film .	The thing that really helps this movie is Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing . If it weren't for these two the movie would not have been as good . Having said that , the main complaint I have on this one is that I felt this movie could have been a lot better . It needed more scenes like the end where many of the people killed by the monster came to life and attacked . Being a zombie fan , if there was more of this going on I would have really enjoyed the film a lot more . As it is , this story features a scientist who finds a creature in the ice and brings it aboard a train so he can unveil it to the world . Unfortunately , the creature is somehow still alive and has the bizarre power to kill just by looking at its intended victim . All in all an all right flick that has some good moments . Telly Savalas is also in this one , but not for very long at all .
Like other movies you have seen before .	I sort of liked this one , but mainly because of the performances of Peter Cushing and John Hurt . Also , Ian McCullough is rather good in it too . However , if you have seen the movie " The Oblong Box " and " The Dunwich Horror " you will know where this one is going . No surprises are in store for you and there really are few murders so it is not exactly a gore fest . So the only thing this one really has going is the actors I have already mentioned and if you do not really care for them I would have to suggest you skip this one . The ending to this one is also very much like the ending to " The Oblong Box " where you wait to see the face of the killer and in the end it is really not all that big a deal . Still though , the movie manages to not to be to boring , well to me anyway and if you are a big Peter Cushing fan you may want to check it out .
The plot almost outshines the sex . . . that is not good .	Yes , my first adult film review . . . yes , I really want to get to one thousand reviews and so anything goes . What to say about this movie . Well the plot is simple , a girl and her friends need to get cash to get to Dallas . They are cheerleaders , and they take various jobs to help fund this endeavor . However , Debbie soon learns that the best way to raise some quick cash is to take advantage of all the horny guys they know . Some actual funny moments take place and it moves fairly quickly . The problem is the plot is almost better than the sex which is okay , but not really done in a way that lets you enjoy watching it all that much . Most of the sex scenes are a bit rushed . . . I mean this is an adult film , sex is the reason you watch these kinds of flicks . The shower scene had to much going on and things progressed to quickly , there is a scene involving a young lady and a candle I wished lasted a bit longer before she was interrupted , and the final scene which was the best scene did not last all that long . Still , the girls are cute and I rather prefer this old time adult film where there is a plot and you don't just jump from one sex scene to the other . Still , seeing the girls a bit more in their cheerleader outfits and more sex would have been nicer here too .
Don't let the title fool ya .	The frogs in this movie don't do a whole lot . The just hang around croaking a bunch . The movie has this one guy who gets knocked into a swamp by some people in a boat joining a birthday party for this old guy . His entire family is there , and they are going to have a really bad time as nature goes berserk . All manners of creatures start killing people by different means , all while the frogs croak up a storm . Snakes , lizards , even birds attack the partygoers . I think the frogs contracted all the animals of the swamp to do their bidding or something . Sam Elliot stars in this one and considering the type of movie it is , he does a rather good job . There are some good deaths too , but nothing really gruesome . It is best not to take the film to seriously though and just have fun with it .
A more gruesome movie than the first , but not as good .	Julian Sands returns here , but I don't know if he is supposed to be the same guy are not . The rules are all changed around here and in many ways it is almost an entirely different movie . The Warlock in this movie seems nearly indestructible than in the first , and instead of the puritan types that were the ones to try and stop him in the first one , here he must be stopped by druids . This time the Warlock makes a most memorable first appearance , and then he goes after these magic stones so he can release Satan into the world . This makes the druid angle seem rather dumb as I don't think they believe in such things . However , it still is a rather good movie , just not as good as the first . . . in fact this movie might have seemed better if the first one never happened . The movie though does follow a certain pattern . You see scenes of this kids coming into terms with their special powers to stop the Warlock , then a scene of the Warlock finding one of the stones , finally whoever has the stone is killed in an unusual way , and then repeat . This happens till the end and the big showdown occurs . I do so enjoy the shotgun scene . That is about all there is too it , but then the Warlock does kill people in vastly different and interesting ways . Not a great movie , but it is okay and worth checking out , though it is rather gruesome at times .
It has its moments .	I sort of like this film . . . definately better than 4 , it amazes me how many people say they actually think 4 is better . This movie is almost a pure comedy except for some scenes . Reeve is tolerable in this one . . . another thing I can't believe is how many people think Reeves was so great as Superman . I know a bunch of people who could have done better , just cause the man had a terrible accident doesn't mean you have to praise his acting ability ( other than Superman he has basically done nothing ) . Reeve does his best when he plays the dark superman . Richard Pyror steals the show though and is the main reason I like this one . Blessedly gone is Margot Kidder who only has a brief cameo . Like I said this one is more of a comedy and it isn't trying to take itself to seriously . . . to bad the same can't be said for 4 .
I do believe this is the main reason there won't be more than three .	The story is okay , but let's face it . . . I figured some sort of major plot point would be revealed , something groundbreaking would happen . No it doesn't , just some cool action scenes with Jr . being a bit more of the focus this time , although Shion still seems to be the main character . The fighting is also awful , I could not stand it this time . Just to hard to really get the upper hand in some fights . The robots were a tad better though . Playing this one made me almost not get three as the okay , but nothing really going on story and the fighting were drastic steps back from part one . Though it was not all bad as a cool new character was introduced in the form of Shion's brother Jin who made a very brief appearance in part one . Yes at the beginning you see a flashback and there is a very cool cinematic of him and Margulis fighting . This is the highlight of this game for me . The rest is a bit of a letdown . Though they did manage to get some more music in this one .
Not really into Pokemon games , but I love role playing and this game made for an okay role playing game .	Yes , I do not watch Pokemon or usually play Pokemon games . However , I saw a preview clip of this game on a demo disk back in 2005 and it looked like a nice role playing game . As you can see I played it when I first got it , but quit rather early as it was sort of repetitive . This time , however , I had some information from a Pokemon expert so I was able to win fights easier and my strategy was perfect . The story basically sounds like a sequel of some type . . . I am not sure what the first game was , but they allude to the organization Cipher as having caused trouble in the past and some heroic youth then help stop them . Flash forward so many years and Cipher is back creating what is called shadow Pokemon , Pokemon whose hearts are closed and perform dreaded shadow attacks . To combat this , researches at this facility your character lives at have created a snag machine that can capture the shadow Pokemon . There is also a long and drawn out process to open their hearts , but not being a real collector type person I just wanted to win the game . You visit many locales , but after a while the battles get to you . Rather repetitive in nature I prefer a final fantasy random encounter . Just something boring about your Pokemon fighting and not really gaining all that many abilities and not being able to equip weapons and armor . So basically an okay role playing game that would probably be more fun for a Pokemon fan as they would enjoy doing all the collecting and seeing their favorite Pokemon in 3-D . As for me , a structure that was different from people dropping from the ceiling and challenging you is needed , but still an okay game .
One of the better 3D movies to come out in this time .	This was made during the whole 3D craze of the early 80's . To me it is actually one of the better ones as well . Is it great , no , but it is fun and never boring ( well to me anyway ) . Notice though that in these 3D movies they are either sequels ( Jaws 3D , Amityville 3D ) or they have the largest titles ever conceived ? Why not just call this one " Spacehunter " why add the last part ? There is another one called " MetalStorm : The destruction of Jared Syn " and one called " Treasure of the Four Crowns " . The only one I can think of that didn't fall into either of these two categories is " Parasite " . This one focuses on this guy who has to track down these women who have landed on this planet full of a lot of weird stuff . They get captured by this sadistic weird looking machine guy . During his hunt for the women he runs into this gal who helps him a bit and they run into all these strange creatures and other rival hunters . This movie was rather entertaining and rather stood on its own . It was good without the 3D to me and is interesting to check out .
Better than two , that's for sure .	This comedy was okay , but for the most part it is nothing special . What made this one good though is that it wasn't advertised so much you knew all the best jokes before you even came to the theater as was the case for part two . The scenes with Sherman's family are also better , as they are not over done as they were in the second one . They were also a surprise , as you didn't expect them . The story has Sherman played by Eddie Murphy trying to devise a potion to make him thin . He succeeds and becomes of course Buddy Love . Buddy Love is a lot better in this movie as well , as he actually has a couple of funny scenes . All in all this movie has some real funny moments and is a better movie than its sequel .
Not great , but OK	After seeing the first Batman I was really looking forward to this sequel . And as so often happens I was disappointed . Not that I hated this movie , but it just wasn't up to the first one . On the plus side , you did see Keaton as Batman more and there was good action when he fought the circus gang and Catwoman . On the negative side was Christopher Walken in a pointless part ( don't get me wrong I usually like him ) that merely added to many characters to the flick . There was the fact this film was a bit to dark from the Penquins make-up ( he just had a long nose in the comics ) , to the winter setting ( which looked good but just darkened the tone ) , to the frequent use of bats . How often are real bats used in the comics . Of course the two villains could not begin to compare to the Joker and that was a big problem that would plague the rest of the movies as well . The worst part of this movie , however , was the ending . spoilers ahead ! ! ! I felt like standing up and yelling boo at the screen . There was absolutely no real fight at the end between Batman and anybody . Catwoman had it out with Walken and the Penquin just died . But it wasn't to bad in the beginning and the end .
The Predator comes off as a bit wimpy in this one .	All in all it was an okay movie , but it should have been much better . It had its moments , but all in all it needed something more . Mainly , it needed more alien vs predator and a lot less unknown gal and gang of merceneries running around pyramid . This movie also makes the predator seem kind of wimpy . . . I came to this movie mainly to see them cause they have not been featured in a film since 1990 , and they have only appeared in two films . They should also be able to take down an alien one on one if you can kill an alien with simple bullets as was seen in many of the alien movies . Here though the aliens can take multiple stab wounds through the chest and body and still fight . We are supposed to believe that the predators hunt these things as a right of passage , but if they were this tough I don't think any of them would have survived . Still though it has some good action and there is one rather nice fight between the two combatants . Still , this movie should have been better . . . I mean " Freddy vs Jason " was better than this one , at least in their fight you could see what was going on all the time . Here sometimes you just couldn't tell . This one was fairly predictable too as you knew something was going to happen when the predator and lady were standing over the ice and you knew what it was going to be . A plus though for this movie is that I can not believe it got a pg-13 rating . It is a very hard one at that and you can tell it was edited down so there probably will be an R version on dvd . Not that I am going to get it , it was an okay time killer and better than the last movie I saw at the theater , but it should have been a better movie .
Ok Chuck Norris revenge flick .	I may have liked this one more if I didn't see it on tv with the many commercials which kind of slowed the movie down a bit , but I still say it was ok . Chuck Norris's partner is killed and so is his girlfriend and Chuck tries to find out who the killers are . Nothing ground breaking , but like I said it is an ok flick . Though I have some complaints . . . one of the reasons I watched this one is because Christopher Lee was in it , but he isn't in it all that much . Another , is the final fight . We see this big asian guy who looks like a wrestler and we know he and Chuck will have a showdown , but the showdown was a bit of a letdown . There are a few plot twists here and there , but nothing to suprising . . . as stated before it is just an ok kung fu action flick .
Good special effects and rather interesting story .	It has some very good stuff in it , but I still think there is just something missing . This movie has Combs in it and Barbara Crampton in it and I know these two were also in the later movie " Castle Freak " together , thought this is the better movie . Combs is a scientist who was working with another scientist using a tuning fork like instrument to stimulate a gland . When this gland is working though , you can see these creatures floating around and they can see you and they attack . The scientist working with Combs gets his head bitten off and Combs ends up in a mental hospital . So enter Crampton who whisks him away , back to the place where the experiment took place to recreate it . Ken Foree from " The Dawn of the Dead " is a cop escorting them . They get the tuner working again , against Combs wishes to just leave it alone and here comes his old pal , now somehow fused with the creature that killed him . The rest of the movie is just the very annoying gal repeatedly wanting to turn on the machine against the cop's and Combs ' wishes . She gets on my nerves the way she keeps turning it on and putting them in danger . The ending is pretty gory though and makes up for some of the bad parts of the film .
Snake is a rather cool character , but I wish the movie had more to it .	I like this movie all right , the movie has a bunch of stars in it . . . granted most of them are those type found in a smaller budgeted movie . This movie also features one of the coolest characters ever featured in a John Carpenter movie Snake . He is the highlight of the movie and one has to wonder how he would handle Michael Myers eh ? The movie has the president's plane crashing in New York and he is needed out of said location . New York in this movie has become some sort of maximum security facility . Well they authorities have a very infamous criminal Snake and they decide to use him to retrieve the president . Well he is not very cooperative , but he finally decides to help . . . mainly because they but explosive charges in his neck . Well he enters New York by some sort of glider and the mission almost immediately goes wrong . Thankfully , Snake is able to find unlikely allies in this twisted New York . Granted they are mainly trying to help in the hopes of also escaping New York . So what is wrong with the movie that I gave it a six and not something higher ? Needs more action in for one . . . for a movie like this you would expect fewer dead spots than what you get . Also , I thought the whole Duke of New York was a bit overdone and over the top . Still , it ends rather good and for the most part it is an okay movie . The music is what one would expect in a John Carpenter movie , good . The cast is top notch add a few gun fights and minus a couple of the talky scenes and this movie would really rock .
You will never see lemon-filled donuts the same way again .	Never saw the original , but I have to say this is one of the must yucky movies ever made . Not that it was bad , but the sole purpose of this movie seemingly was to gross people out . The story of a scientist's whose teleportation experiments have a slightly adverse effect on him is rather good . As for scares , there just are not that many , the movie is mostly watching a man deteriorate to the point of being really gross looking . Still it has a great cast , and it is a well done movie , just needed some kills or something else . He isn't super fly for very long , but for the most part just the melting man . Like I said , the main point of this film seemed to be just to gross you out . The eating scene with him showing how a fly eats is particularly icky as are the many scenes of various pieces of him coming off . Before the gross out begins though you are given an interesting enough plot about teleportation pods and there is another nasty scene involving a monkey , but in the end the most memorable scenes in the flick are the ones that make you go eww .
This movie did not make me " shutter " all that much . . .	Just your basic Asian horror movie , nothing special , nothing one can not figure out . Well I didn't figure out the actual end and all the stuff to do with neck pain , but then they really threw us a good breaking ball with that one . Still , from what the DVD box said and what I got I was relatively disappointed . It had some good stuff , most of it regrettably was right there at the beginning of the movie . I enjoyed it when they talked to the ghost picture editor and the other stuff relating to the camera aspect of the film this too becomes less relevant as the film progresses . Why , I don't know seeing as how the film is titled " Shutter " . So the basic plot , couple are driving home after a bit of drinking and hanging with friends when they hit a person , guy and girl panic a bit , guy panics more and makes girl drive away from the scene . So is this the catalyst for the terror that is to come ? Well let me say it would be rather simple , to simple even if that were all there is to it . Of course at this point the guy who seems to be a photographer ends up getting strange distortions in his photos to the point where one looks like a well defined ghost . . . well this sets things off as friends die and the haunting of the photographer get worse and worse as he and his girlfriend must try to find the cause of it all . Well he pretty much should know why he is being haunted while it really is the girl who makes the grim discoveries . Though I figured out what was going to be the cause of it all before she did . . . I think I prefer the vague Asian horror movies to these that spell it all out for you . Still it is somewhat interesting and the cast is good . . . and there is a rather humorous scene involving a bathroom spook .
Very slow starter , but it finishes well .	This movie does take a little to much time with the setup , so much so that I was beginning to think it was going to be an all around weak ending with maybe one kill or something . Most of the first hour or so is used establishing this and that , lots of teenage whining , lots of people looking for people in the woods and such , I was so sure this would be the best of the after dark movies that I was really getting disappointed . However , the last twenty or so minutes I got the movie I was expecting as it was one bloody ride the rest of the way . The story , well for the first part it rather mirrors the start of " Mortuary " as we have a family moving into a new home . . . we have the single mom , the little girl , and sub a teen girl for the guy in that movie and you have your setup . The house is in rather bad shape , as for some reason the mother here never apparently checked it out beforehand and there ya go . The whining about wanting to go back home and thinking the place is the dumps gets old quick . Well there is also a mine on the property , a mine where children were forced to work and they died there as well in an accident . Makes me want to smack those kids who are in stores wanting video games even more , the spoiled brats . Well you just know the mining accident and the children who died are going to be the cause of the terror . Unfortunately , there is not much terror to be had during the very long setup . This movie was going to score a three or four before the very bloody conclusion where people are getting totally chopped up and we even get zombies ! ! ! So if you can make it through the first part , you are in for a treat as the movie totally changes gears and ramps up the horror . Before that it almost was like a television movie or something .
Needs more horror .	Yes this look at Dracula is definitely more romance than horror as there is really nothing that is all that scary in it . Not that it is entirely bad . . . in fact I would say I found it an ok movie , just needed more horror . The story is of course about Dracula . . . Keanu Reeves character goes to work for him after his previous employee Renfield went insane . Dracula sees a picture of Reeves fiancé ( Ryder ) and since she looks like someone he used to be in love with he goes after her leaving Reeves a prisoner in the castle . Dracula makes it to where Ryder is and attempts to win her over . Meanwhile , Reeves makes his escape . Hopkins playing Van Helsing comes involved , as Dracula has been sucking on Ryder's friend Lucy so she is a bit ill and Helsing is some expert . All in all not a bad film just needed a little more work in the horror department .
Not the most original horror movie ever , but it has a fast flow and it passes the time .	This movie is fairly predictable , nothing that you will not be able to figure out rather quickly . However , there are a good couple of kills , and the flow of the movie is very fast . The story , gal gets stranded in a town with a bizarre past of a preacher using living scarecrows to scare off actual crows . He was subsequently killed by people in the neighboring town . Our stranded lady learns this from a reporter of a tabloid paper who is doing a story on the town . Some how they become best buds in what is essentially maybe an hour worth of time , I somewhat enjoyed this flick , but then it is not without some flaws . There is a scarecrow , and lots of religious nuts and we have quite a few chase scenes . The movie is not without its many faults though as it is a cheaply made direct to DVD movie . The opening features a horrible computer animated scene of a guy in a cornfield with crows and it looks awful , I was expecting a much worse picture from that scene as I hate computer generation that is completely unnecessary . How hard is it to find a cornfield and to put skeletons on crosses in it , I would wager not to difficult . The scarecrow angle was rather good then abandoned and forgotten near the end where we have a crappy looking crow attack . Still , it passes some time and I found it on the whole somewhat entertaining . Just do not expect to much .
Strange horror film . . . but rather good .	Why the plot outline says the boy here was autistic is beyond me . A bit strange and maybe a little introverted , but he just was not autistic . This movie is about a rather unique boy who has conversations with his teddy bear . This is really one of the more stranger aspects of this movie . You are led to believe he is just having imaginary conversations with the bear , but in one scene the teddy actually turns its head . This aspect of the film is never explained in any kind of detail . For the most part it is about the boy having a crush on a woman . This boy also has a rather dark secret . He knows of a pit of monsters near where he lives and he feeds these monsters . What does he feed them you ask ? Why people that tick him off of course . It is rather funny seeing him find ways to feed the monsters the best being the football scene . After awhile though the kid actually frees the monsters from the pit where they then go on a rampage . A good movie as long as you don't take it to seriously and the ending is good too .
Interesting , but kind of a gimmick movie .	This movie is kind of disjointed as it is over here then it is over there . The plot goes here and there also . It is also a very somber movie with very little humor in it at all . The color of the screen also seems to be somewhat grayed . All in all though it is a pretty good film , but once I watched it once I wouldn't want to see it again . I didn't really find the ending very shocking , but then I watched this one on video and not the theater so I knew to look for a surprise ending . The story of the movie is that of a boy who sees ghosts and has other problems . Bruce Willis is a doctor who wants to help him . That is all I will say of the plot , because it kind of moves all over the place .
Granted it is a rather mild Pryor movie , still I found it funny .	Yes , this movie is not quite what one would expect from Richard Pryor . . . light on the cussing , a touch of being almost a family comedy , but not quite that tame . In this movie we have a man who is laid off and is offered a very nice job in Boise . Of course , his daughter is rather upset about the prospect of going there , however his wife and twin sons are a bit more supportive . Also happy to see the family go is the crazy neighbor played rather good my Randy Quaid . A neighbor who for some reason must cut his rather small lawn with an industrial mower . Well he has a couple of moving agencies give their appraisal of what it would take to move and he goes with the more expensive as the cheap ones look like recently escaped convicts or something . They find a nice house in Boise where they meet the delightful owners who tell great jokes about how they are going to take everything from the doors to the pool with them . Then he finds just the perfect guy to drive one of his vehicles to the new house . Well everything begins to unravel rather quickly as the movers turn out to be familiar faces he does not want to see , the jokes on them with the new house , and the driver of the car has a bit of a mental problem . So all in all a funny movie , a few of the jokes miss the marks such as the giving the wrong finger thing , however most are pretty good like how the twin sons run track . So for a rather light Richard Pryor comedy that still has some good laughs , give this movie a try .
Worth a look . . . but nothing to take seriously .	This is my favorite giant insect movie . I don't know what it is about this one , but every time I see it on AMC or where ever I have to watch . The effects are bad and the plot isn't the best in the world , but not every movie has to be great to be fun to watch . Usually , in movies of this type the monsters ( in this case giant ants ) are rarely seen cause they look so bad . In this one , though , they don't care what they look like and they are more than happy to show us this cheesy ants . . . sometimes the old regular ants projected on the background , while at others really bad puppets . The plot has these people looking at vacation plots . . . you know timeshare stuff . While touring the facility , some members disappear and then the ants attack . They have to get away from them and go down a river on a boat to do so . This is my favorite part of the movie , going down the river . Lots of the cast are taken out here . Unfortunately , it ends rather weak as they all get to this town that has some sort of connection to the ants , but what ? I would have preferred this one to stay with the river and wood scenes rather than the town part of the plot , but overall this movie is good fun .
Starts out very well . . . but it does run a bit long and it also explains to much .	This one has music seemingly directly from the game it also has a lot of the atmosphere from the game as well , especially when you first enter Silent Hill . I was thinking , " Wow , this has to be one of the best video game adaptations ever " . I mean they had the clues that characters would find in the game on display here , the monsters were exactly what you see in the game only more disturbing as here they are in the flesh . I was waiting for the heroine to open a random cabinet to find a shotgun or something , and maybe some ammo in a shelf , of course thankfully that did not happen . The story has a mother taking her daughter to Silent Hill in hopes that this will somehow explain her very bizarre sleepwalking behavior . Of course , for those who played the video game Silent Hill is not your ordinary little town . Upon arrival her daughter is lost , the air is full of ash , and when the siren goes off the entire town goes black and things of indescribable horror lurk in the darkness . A police officer is there as well , having followed our heroine into town and at first she is a pain , but later she is very helpful . However , the movie would have been a lot better if it did not try to explain so much . I mean in the games they didn't really explain anything about why the town itself was going crazy , usually it just explained to some extent the scenario that brought the people into town . I didn't really care for all the explaining as it narrowed it all down right to the cause of everything . Granted this made for a rather grisly climax , I still would have liked to have scene the little religious group taken out of the picture all together . I don't know I just think we needed something more out of the game for the end and less of the here is why the town and everything in it is happening . This also could have taken the movie down a few minutes as it seems to run a bit long at the end as well . Still though the movie had depth and while it wasn't the greatest movie ever , it was still very interesting to watch . Also , the cast is rather good and the scenes with Sean Bean were particularly good . . . I just he would have found a more vague cause .
Big trouble in the sewers .	This movie is as the title implies a movie about a giant alligator in the sewers , flushed down when it was just an infant . Now it is super big thanks to chemicals and it is on an eating spree . This movie is pretty good and a lot better than the giant reptile or whatever movies of today that primarily use cgi . Sure in some of the scenes you can tell it is just a normal sized alligator on a scaled down set , but hey who cares . I love the scenes in the sewer when the people try to get away from the gator , as they are pretty tense . There is also a great scene where this kids are playing around at a party and pretending to be pirates . They make this one kid walk the plank and push him in a pull and the gator is in the pool . Suffice to say what happens is a very good chomp scene .
From what I remember it was good .	I have only seen this movie once , and it was some time ago so I do not remember it too clearly . From what I do remember it was good . This one has a gal reading this book about a guy who is killing people for their body parts to impress the woman he loves . The strange thing is though , people are turning up dead and they are dying just as it was written in book . If that isn't strange enough seems the guy who wrote the book was a bit crazy and he even went so far as to say the book was not a work of fiction , but rather a true story . He said this of another book he wrote as well . This one is rather good , but the ending is a bit strange as something from his other book comes true too . If I ever got the chance I would love to see it again because it was most definitely worth a look .
Minimal plot , but really cute girls featured in this one .	Yes , if this movie were just your average flick I would have ranked it low as the story , what little of it there was , just was not interesting . However , this movie is a lesbian adult film so with lots of sex so it gets a rather high score . This one also features quite a few cute girls in it , if only they got better sex scenes than a couple of the less attractive ones . The story , girl gets kicked out of her house or something , finds money and wants to do something or other with it . Heck , all I know is the plot might as well not been there at all it was so bland . The girls sex scenes more than makes up for this though , the lead being especially cute . You start with a scene with these two gals in a bathroom , their scene is rather long and they are rather cute just not up to some of the later ones who only got short sex scenes or ones with to many girls on screen at the same time . After that scene you get one with the cute lead , but she is with the least attractive woman in the flick so that scene goes on forever and while not bad I just would have preferred one of the other girls playing the realtor in that scene . Then you have scenes with to many women that it bombards the senses . They are good , I just rather see two girls at a time especially when they are as cute as the ones in these scenes . All in all though a very erotic adult film featuring all girls .
Plays like the Spider-man game for the playstation one , just not quite as good .	This game plays like that game as far as the combat and swinging is concerned , however the story is lifted from the first Spider-man movie . Well a lot of it is anyways as there are a lot more enemies to face than just the Green Goblin here . Well not to many more , mainly you get to fight The Shocker who seems to be the old standby in these games , Scorpian , and the Vulture . I think in the Xbox version you get to fight a couple of other bad guys one of which is Kraven the Hunter and the second of which I do not know . Tobey and William lend their voices to this game , however Bruce Campbell as the tour guide steals the show as he had me cracking up . The game is good for the most part , I just thought it followed the movie a bit to much and like in the Spider-man game for the playstation one Spider-man seems to be swinging on a web that is attached to absolutely nothing . The fights with the characters are fun as I enjoyed fighting the Shocker and Green Goblin the most . The fights in this game with the Green Goblin top the fights with Doc Ock in the next game . Still the levels on the roofs are a bit of a pain at times , you get stuck in that stupid costume longer than I care for , if they were going to follow the movie so closely why did they not incorporate the fight with Bonesaw in the main storyline of the game , and there are various other little annoyances in the game to be found as some of the fights and stealth stuff gets on one's nerves . Still , at least this game did not ignore Spidey's strength like part II and III did . Though both those games are the superior web swinging games .
Godzilla and Mothra must fight their way through waves of alien invaders and terrible monsters .	This Godzilla game is rather good , but it has a fatal flaw . Mainly that of Mothra . In the game you alternate turns between Godzilla and Mothra on a kind of board . You land on an area and you fight through a screen of alien weaponry . There are also other monsters on this board and they take a turn as well . Mothra is just a bit weak and it just is not as fun fighting as her on a level and it just sucks to have to fight the other monsters as the moth . Godzilla on the other hand is a blast to fight with having a lot more attacks than Mothra , plus the radioactive breath . All Mothra seems to do is dust her enemies to death . There are a host of monsters from the Godzilla franchise to fight too as there is Gidorah , MechaGodzilla , Hedorah , and Gigan . Strangely absent from the game are Rodan , Anguris , and Megalon and the inclusion of say an octopus that I do not believe even appeared in a Godzilla movie other than say Final Wars which came out years later , and Baragon who is a Gamera villain makes the exclusion of these characters even more puzzling . They even have Baigon in this game , and Baigon is only famous for being the monster Mothra was initially going to fight in the movie Mothra versus Godzilla , but they replaced it with Godzilla as they thought Godzilla would be a better draw . So all in all a fun game , just needs work on the levels and Mothra's combat and it would have been super .
The other volcano movie of 1997 .	This volcano movie was released shortly after another volcano movie , Dante's Peak . While that volcano movie is more believable and has the better story , this one is more action packed . You don't have to wait till the end of the movie for the action to start this one is almost all action . Though the volcano in this one is a lot less believable than the other one and the story isn't as good either . Tommy Lee Jones is rather good in this one , but this movie does not delve to deeply into the characters as a wall of lava threatens to wipe out a good deal of Los Angeles . Tommy Lee Jones as some sort of emergency director has to figure out a way to stop the lava and minimize the damage being caused . Best to turn your brain off for this one and just enjoy the great action .
I always enjoy a river horror .	I like horror movies that happen along or in rivers . Not that there are many " Shock Waves " and " Empire of the Ants " are the only two that come to mind right now . I do not know why , something about the scenery maybe ? This movie is of course about piranha released in a river by two people who should not have been messing around a facility . Of course , if they did what they were supposed to do then there would be no movie . This movie was obviously trying to capitalize on the success of " Jaws " , but for me it worked . The piranha are slowly making their way down the river and along the way they run into some kids at camp and this resort place . No one believes that they are coming , but that is the way it is in these movies . A sequel would come later and it would be directed by a then unknown James Cameron and it would be awful and a bit boring . Another piranha movie would be made by Roger Corman in the 90's , but it is essentially the same movie as this only not as good .
Basically more of the same , but I liked it a bit .	Of course the reason I may like this one is all the girls in the locker room shower scene , but hey that is a reason to like a movie . No seriously I thought it was okay . Though absolutely nothing you have not seen before . . . just think the first Grudge only with a bizarre Chicago family storyline that comes together at the end . Not that it wasn't thoroughly predictable . Okay , sounds like I didn't care for this movie much , but I found it a fun way to pass time . It wasn't boring as it had a kill every so often to keep the story going . The story you ask ? Well there really isn't much of one , I hated it when they tried to add a reason behind the haunting , I thought that just cheapened the whole affair and I was glad to see it was short lived . The ending was nothing new and about the same , like I said it was not a boring movie thanks to the kills , however it was only mildly scary here and there and it just seemed to Americanized this time too . Sure all the Japanese horror remakes are a bit , but this one was more so . This one was better than the American Ring 2 as I found that one really boring , but this one is not nearly as good as its Japanese counterpart JuOn 2 as that one has a hospital scene that has to be seen to believe . Then again this one had that girl shower scene in it .
Not really a War of the Worlds , but rather watch character running from alien death machines with family in tow .	It had its moments , but along with those it also had its faults . . . a lot of em . I enjoyed it for the most part , but there are so many scientific errors just one person can take . Even if you could disregard them all the action just about stops once Ray and his daughter enters the basement with the crazy Tim Robbins character . First what is good ? The first moments of alien encounter when the tripods emerge from the ground and begin incinerating everyone and everything . The destruction as Cruise and family escape one step ahead of the tripods in the only working vehicle . Moments of humor as the family arrives at the mother's house . The destruction shown as planes apparently crashed in the night . A ferry boat ride of death . All this makes for really entertaining theater , but there are just too many faults to rate this a really good movie . In fact , so far it is one of the weakest movies I have seen so far this year . Why ? Well for some reason all electrical appliances are knocked out , even watches yet somehow a video camera is still functioning ? For some reason the family has the only working car yet the military vehicles work fine and many areas are still with power so the cars in those areas should work right ? The aliens vaporize some people , but then capture others ? Just what was the point of the red vines , granted it made for a rather creepy scene with Cruise's character looking out over a field , but in the end it just seemed to make for a rather pointless plot cul de sac . Then there is the scenes with Robbin's character , that quite frankly bog the movie down to a stand still . The basement scene went on way to long , I am guessing it was there to keep down costs as while they were in the basement they were also saving money by not having to show us the destruction caused by the tripods . Still though up to that point there were some nice action scenes and such , but still not up to par with movies that cost a fraction of the money such as " Land of the Dead " made for 15 million , it looks just as impressive in places as this 135 million dollar movie . It needs more , more stars , more perspective than what we get . This movie just looks at one family's struggle during an alien invasion , unfortunately that has been done before in a movie called " Signs " . There is really nothing new being brought to the table here .
Improved fighting and the music at times is great . . . still they took to many role playing elements out of this one .	This game is a faster and more epic version of the game Brave Fencer Musashi . Still , they have taken a lot of the role playing elements present from the first game and have made this one more of a basic action game that at times is a bit of a pain . The graphics are good the music great , just to hard in some places and picking up some of the enemy techniques is also rather hard at times as well . The story is basically the same as the first game as you must rescue a princess . . . the main difference here is that you pretty much have to rescue a princess in every level . The citizens of the castle encased in crystal aspect of the game is back , however the night and day is gone as is the regular town as all there is , is the castle and it is riding on top of a whale or something in the sky . The villains are typical of this type of game , however , a lot of the humor of the first one is somewhat gone here to . You go through the various stages that are just about straight forward levels this time around , you have your basic forest levels , a mining level , and various places like that . The game is also relatively short , and you get what you get in the first one too a rather unsatisfying ending .
" You can drive in reverse , son ? " " All is forgiven " ! ! !	This was a rather funny movie featuring Corey Haim and Corey Feldman , showing that these two for a short span really had something going coming off the very cool vampire movie " The Lost Boys " . This movie is just about your average teen trying to pass his driving test and getting his license along with his ultra bright and nerdy twin sister . He also gets to go out on a date with a very attractive lady as well named Mercedes ( played by Heather Grahme ) . Well for some reason he does not do so well on the computer quiz portion of the driving test , but thanks to some luck the test results are wiped out and he is given the chance to take the driving portion of the test . Which of course is highly unlikely no matter how well his sister scored . Well he somehow manages to pass the driving portion despite having a driving instructor from hell while his sister gets the guy everyone should want during this part . In the end though they find his score and no license . Well through a series of strange events he gets his grampa's car and takes the hot girl out as she proceeds to get drunk and pass out . He then picks up his friends as they try to get to this cool hangout . Lets just say a lot of stuff happens and that car takes some hits . I especially found the drunk guy funny . In the end I found the end a bit much , but then most comedies I find have a weak spot in their armor . However , this was a rather funny comedy that passes the test .
A rather good start for a whole lot of sequels .	Yes , these Police Academy movies would become rather weak , but I thought they started out rather good with this one and part two . This one in the series is also the most risqué , as this film series would actually become more of a family type comedy series when this one is an R rated one that has nudity and one rather funny speech scene . It kind of did the opposite of the Meatballs franchise that went from family friendly to more adult oriented . The gist of the story is simple , a lot of people who should not be in a police academy enroll in one and each is a misfit type in his or her own way . Granted I do not seem them enrolling someone like Mahoney as they kind of frown upon people with troubled pasts becoming police officers . You have your gun toting security guard who always wanted to be a cop , your giant strong dude becoming a cop and a womanizer along with a host of others . The comedy is good and for the most part it works . I enjoyed the two idiots who shaved their heads bald in the one scene and when they got caught up in the bar . Lots of funny stuff , unfortunately the sequels would mainly just repeat what was in this one and the next film and the jokes would become rather stale as the series went through six sequels I know of .
More of the same .	This was an all right sequel , but it isn't anything new . For the most part it is the same plot , except it has a computer going crazy on a space shuttle . Missing here is Leslie Nielson and his deadpan humor . He was basically the straight man in the first one , the guy who said all the lines with such seriousness . No one really makes up for his absence in this one . The jokes come at a fast pace and for the most part they are pretty funny , though a lot of them are just the same ones from the first airplane movie . Though I did like William Shattner , who kind of played the role Robert Stack had in the first one . For the most part it was funny , but not as good as the first one .
Good chills and laughs	This is one of my favorite haunted house stories and comedy horrors . The characters are likeable and so is the story . The plot follows William Katt as he encounters many strange things in his old aunts home . His kid has been missing for some time and he is seperated from his wife . He has an annoying neighbor played by George Wendt who does an excellent job . What is behind all the weird stuff going on in the house , well I won't give it away , but just watch the flashback scenes and you will figure it out . Especially the last one that he actually acts out .
Pretty good , but it could have been better .	I thought this one was rather funny , I liked it a tiny bit more than the first one ( didn't see the 2nd ) , but that is probably because I saw all the movies they made fun of with the exception of " 8 Mile " . The problem is once again this movie isn't going to be very good if you haven't seen " The Ring " or " Signs " the two main ones they made fun of therefore it is not really a stand alone movie . You can miss " 8 Mile " though as anything you saw in the previews of that one would be all you need . These " Scary Movies " and the last few parodies made really require you to see movies before you can enjoy . That just was not the case with movies like " Airplane " and " The Naked Gun " , sure there were a few references that might of helped too if you saw the movie , but not a whole lot as it was stand alone funny . This movie mainly makes fun of " The Ring " , there are some funny jokes here , but for my money the funniest stuff came at the expense of " Signs " . The Ring probably made up 50 percent or more of the jokes with Signs at around 30 percent and " The Matrix Reloaded " and " 8 Mile " making the remainder . There is one small joke that is Lord of the Rings related , but it isn't anything really funny . There was supposed to be something in it making fun of the Hulk , but I am pretty sure it was cut because I didn't notice anything . Which leads to another complaint , why the heck did they make the movie so short ? This movie had to be an hour and twenty minutes max , you're telling me they couldn't find anything else to spoof ? I really hate going to a movie that is under an hour and thirty minutes . Overall though it was an okay movie with some good laughs here and there .
Alright , but just to hard to believe .	This movie is kind of a take on reality TV . The show focuses on Jim Carrey's character Truman . The cameras follow him everywhere as he is actually living in this big TV studio . Everyone he thinks he knows are actors including his wife . Interesting enough , but I just have a hard time believing this show would have stayed on the air from this guy's birth to the point of being a grown man with a wife . No show lasts that long and this show would be rather dull one to watch . This one is at its best when it is more comedy oriented . Unfortunately , it is more of a drama and takes itself to seriously when it should be more fun to watch . Carrey does do a good job in the main role , but Ed Harris is just too bland for me . I can't believe he was nominated for an Oscar for this role . . . he just was not very good to me . I also don't think this TV show is realistic in that I would think it would be illegal to keep someone basically as a prisoner without their permission . All the faults aside though it is a rather good movie to watch , I just wish it were a bit funnier .
Interesting Werewolf movie .	First off , I am not the biggest werewolf fan in the world . In fact , for the most part I don't care for them . This is just one of the exceptions that I do like . . . An American Werewolf in London is another . This one is about a werewolf killing people in a small town . Of course , the people are up in arms about it and want something done . A boy who is paralyzed and his sister end up finding out the identity of the werewolf as the werewolf attack the boy and the boy was able to defend himself by shooting out one of its eyes . The sister went around to people's houses and eventually came across a man with one eye . They convince their uncle that a werewolf is what is killing everyone and he has a silver bullet made . The parents go off one night during a full moon and the uncle and kids must confront the werewolf . I won't give away who the werewolf is for anyone who hasn't seen this yet . All in all a pretty cool flick , nothing great about it just easy to watch and enjoy .
A Vietnam veteran runs into trouble in a small town .	This story is simple , a Vietnam vet is first trying to have a reunion with an old army buddy . Apparently , he is the last of Rambo's buddies left after the war ( Rambo being the main character for the two people who might not know who I am referring to ) . Well he finds out this guy is dead as well so suffice to say Rambo is not in the best of moods . He ends up strolling through a town where the local sheriff stops him and promptly escorts him out of town . Rambo says he would just like to get something to eat , but the sheriff is most insistent on his leaving . Rambo is dropped off on the edge of town and Rambo promptly turns back towards town , most likely tired of the attitudes people like the sheriff have towards him and others that served in Vietnam . Well the sheriff arrests Rambo and him and his staff proceed to treat him like some sort of animal leading to a violent escape by Rambo and the sheriff and first his deputies then the national guard go on the hunt for him . Rather good scenes abound in this movie as Rambo makes rather short work of the deputies and some guys dogs . You also get to witness Rambo trying to escape a cave and have a cool shoot out at the end . All is not perfect with the film , but there is enough good stuff to make this an all around pretty good film . I just do not see a small town being as inhospitable towards a veteran of any war . The kind of attitude you see from the sheriff is something I would think one would see in maybe a college town at that time or a city . I also wonder if there were maybe a McDonald's in town if the sheriff had taken him through the drive thru would Rambo been more apt to leave when taken to the edge of town ? It also could have ended if that one idiot did not shoot Rambo in the side of the head when he was trying to surrender . Yes , a lot of things fell into place so that we could have the fiery ending we got .
Most of the movie is a laugh , but some of it is the pits .	This movie follows the misadventures of a couple who is in desperate need of a place to stay and end up getting tricked into buying a house well out of their price range that is in the need of a few repairs . Hanks and Long are pretty good and the jokes are really funny , but it is just one of those comedies that has a few scenes that aren't that funny and drag the movie down a notch . For the most part the ending is not the strong point and most of the better jokes are in the beginning and the middle of this one . The funniest stuff coming as they enter their new home and the stairs seem to creak a bit , the electricity seems a tad off , and there are minor problems with the plumbing as well . Throw in also a road warrior type demolition crew , and a permit guy who is a tad on the insecure side . I didn't care for the whole did she have an affair thing in the plot as it seemed it was added to pad the film , but for the most part this movie had its moments and is worth a viewing .
I liked it as much as the first but for different reasons .	The first film in these sex romps was more artistic . Very well done , with a dream like state that enhanced the feel of the movie . Sure it was an adult film , but it was a rather classy and well done one . This one kind of says forget about making the dreamlike scenes at times then seems to add them in the movie in a different , weird kind of way . They also seem rather random . So why is it just as good as the original to me ? Well there are two girls that are very hot and cute and their sex scenes trump anything seen in the first movie . One is a very nice looking red head who has a couple of nice scenes , the other a cute brunette who has a very sweet sex scene while wearing her cute uniform a welcome change from the first one where they wore the cute uniforms , but did not really have sex in them at any time in the movie . However , make no mistake this is more of a porno with very little artistic value , granted it is a lot better than the just sex movies released these days . There is just something erotic to me about watching a conversation or a situation progress into a really good sex scene rather than just starting in the middle of two people having sex and they are already usually naked . Though the plot here is just girls go to camp and the male counselor's and a few other guys find a way to entice the girls to have sex or vice versa .
I find this one the weakest of the series . . . just feels incomplete to me .	This one just feels rushed to me , or it feels like it should have been the second disk to part two and that they should have been one game . The world is bigger than ever , there is more to do , you now have light eco powers to go along with your dark ones , still this game just does not feel complete . The story starts out good as Jak has been banished to the desert and soon becomes in contact with a strange village of people that feels kind of like it is a Mad Max movie . Jak must do a variety of things pretty much like part two and then the story of Jak gets rapped up quite nicely with a rather cute ending . The platforming is still rather good as is other parts you are used to . I think the problems come in the form of dune buggy racing in the desert . Just seems the makers of this game fell in love with this a bit to much as it is focused on way to much even to the point of being in the final battle as well . I thought it was okay , but I am not into racing games all that much and this is what this game turns into a bit to often . Then there is the fact it seems shorter than part two . Considering how expansive the world is you would think there would be more missions than in part two , but it just does not feel like the case . It takes awhile to get back to Haven City and I was amazed that it was virtually the same size and I figured the game was just taking off , but this is nearly the end . However , all complaining aside this is still a good game that is fun and funny . Just seems it needed another year of development .
Very nice dreamlike sexual romp .	Not really much of a plot to this movie , other than there are girls fantasizing about sex a lot . They also have real sex as well and you get to see the fantasies and the sex . Plays out in a very dreamlike state especially at the beginning and it is very well done . The only complaint I have is more of a matter of personal taste as I could have done without all the oral sex being done to the guys . Still , as much as I usually don't care for that in most adult films it was actually done a bit better here so it did not detract as much as it would have usually . The girls are very cute and good looking , the sex is very steamy and hot and you get to see the gals in cute uniforms too . It has it all for the most part . The story though is basically just the girls thinking about their teachers and at one point sneaking out of the all school girl dorm to be with their boyfriends . Another small complaint is that the ending sex scene was not all that great , as it just seemed to end a bit abruptly . All the other sex scenes though are done well and end in a more satisfying for all way .
Take a lesser Murray and add to it a b talent class and you get a rather funny movie .	Yes , this movie is stupid and some of the jokes are rather crude , but I find it a lot more funny than most mainstream comedy movies released these days . The story and movie has the basic setup and premises of the Police Academy movies , however other than maybe the first police academy I found this movie better than that series . We have a group of people in this movie that have accumulated so many parking tickets that they must complete a training course to reclaim their licenses and even their cars . Granted I have to agree with the guy in the puppet show stand . . . why was he there ? You have your usual ensemble cast for these types of movies , Bill Murray's brother is the headliner and he is somewhat good . Jennifer Tilly is also in this one , however I say that the guy teaching the cast played by Keech is the funniest character with the possible exception of that old lady when she is drunk . Plenty of funny scenes within as well as the scene of the woman following the " doctor's " advice was really funny as too was the scenes of the students watching the bloody asphalt movie . The movie gathers a lot of steam , but the ending just is not up to the rest of the film where we get the comedic chase scene . Still , for a movie with only minor stars and a by the numbers type story this movie was pretty funny .
Though dissed by most video game critics I actually enjoyed this game .	It is funny though considering all the popular anime shows there are in Japan , the one that gets a game out first during the launch of the playstation two is one that is not as well known here . Let's face it , I have seen it in stores that specifically sale movies , but you never see it on the cartoon network or at walmart . So I know very little about the show these characters came from , however , I enjoyed the game for the most part . Could have used some more role playing elements , lots of scenes of the characters talking , but there is no town or anything of that nature for them to visit . The fights are also limited , as there is a set number . So no real leveling up if you get stuck , your either get by with what you got or you die . The story has Orphen and his two students heading for an island in search of treasure , instead they come across three other unfortunate souls on an island of seemingly nonstop peril . You play out each of these characters sad tales , starting over from the beginning each time , you are left wondering what is up , however , there is a secret to this island and these people . The fighting is sort of turned based , sort of real time . The fights with the bosses are rather cool , but along with that comes the sometimes annoying navigation of this world where you must avoid traps and such . So all in all a rather good adventure tale , though that female student Orphen's American voice can get on one's nerves .
Just missing something .	For the most part I liked this movie of a paranormal con man that must use his gifts of seeing ghosts to find the reason behind mysterious deaths in town . It just seemed to be missing something . I am not sure what that may be though . Fox is great in this one as is all the cast , especially Jeffrey Combs who has quite the over the top performance as an agent who specializes in rather weird crimes . Maybe it is the fact Fox is the one blamed for the murders . I generally don't care for the hero being blamed for crimes and he does stuff to further incriminate himself . Not much gore in this one , but this was supposed to be Peter Jackson's big movie to make himself known over here in America . Unfortunately , he wanted the movie in the fall . . . the studio though put this one up against the Olympics and then they didn't advertise it very well . This one starts out more comedy then shifts to a more of an action-horror . I wouldn't say just horror though as it doesn't seem to be trying to be very scary . All in all a good movie that is just missing a certain something .
A game that shows what happened before Daxter came to Jak's rescue in part two .	For the most part this game was fun . Basically , like the last two parts of the Jak trilogy . The star is the major difference as finally Daxter takes center stage . Hired by an exterminator to handle the ever increasing bug problem in Haven city , Daxter maneuvers his way through differing locales to help rid inside and outside the city of its pest problems . And oh , he may also find the time to rescue his good pal Jak in the process as well . The fighting and action like the Jak games is varied enough to keep it interesting . You do your standard platform action , flying action and even a little gun action . There are also dream sequence mini games that are rather funny and a bit fun too . Simple to play as well as they usually just consist of you pushing the correct button displayed . Though for some reason the first one of these games was the hardest for me to do . . . the others seemed easy compared to it . The game does have a tendency to be a bit to much go here , now the next place with a bit to little interaction with other characters . I want to see Daxter talking more to the citizens of Haven rather than rushing off to battle after battle . I also was getting a bit frustrated near the end as the game was getting quite difficult near the end . On the plus side the final boss was easy enough to take care off . So in the end , not quite as good as the Jak games , this one is still fun and worth a look .
I was expecting something more in the line of " Versus " .	I enjoyed this movie okay , it just could have been so much better . I was expecting more action than what I got . . . which was more of a comedy than anything else . Granted , it was serious in parts and it had a good fight scene here and there for the most part it was more romance and comedy with some action and no horror at all . Which is hard to do with a vampire movie . A vampire hunter loses his partner and must train another , his sister is going through a difficult break up , but she is being pursued by a vampire of all things . Granted , this vampire is rather nice and not into sucking blood . So that is all there is really to it except for a plot of another vampire after certain royal vampires so he can gain ultimate power . Some of the problems with this movie is that its plot went here and there and the movie had a very uneven flow to it , that and it seemed to shift genres a bit much too . One minute action , the next pure comedy . However , the girls were cute , there is good action , the comedy was worthy of a chuckle or two and Jackie Chan makes a rather energetic appearance or two . This movie probably just needed more development in some areas such as the villain who is basically not really explored at all . So for a movie with a few good fights and a chuckle or two this is rather good . . . though why was it rated R ? I have seen stuff we have made that is PG-13 that is a lot worse than this .
Has some good moments	The actor who made this movie the most fun to watch has to be Snipes . Stallone just isn't as good in this one as he was in Cliffhanger released in the same year . This one has Snipes escaping this future prison where all the inmates are on ice . To catch him they awaken Stallone's character , who was the one who caught him . Stallone is frozen because he may have killed some people accidentally , yet Snipes who killed purposely is getting parole hearings while Stallone's character stays on ice . That is just one of the few flaws in this one . There are some humorous stuff in this as well as the future is a society where the gov't forces you to do everything it deems good for you and penalizes you for doing what it considers bad . Apparently , you can't even cuss in the future . Another problem is the worst incident of product placement ever . Apparently , the only fast food chain to survive in the future is Taco Bell . It is so obvious they paid to get their name in the movie , as it is the last food chain you would guess would survive . All in all a pretty good flick . Good action , and there is some good comedy as well .
A pretty good low budget zombie flick .	This movie is kind of a cross between Night of the Living Dead and The Evil Dead . This group of actors goes to an island . Of course the only reason you know they are actors is that they say they are . Actually they don't have a camera or anything so maybe they are stage actors or something . The director or leader makes them come to the island so he can play practical jokes and perform satanic rituals on the gang . The director is extremely obnoxious and you wonder why the others just don't punch him out , but they are all so afraid of being fired by him they put up with him . They end up performing a ritual to raise the dead , but it seemingly does nothing . So they go to this house to have a little party and the director plays with this corpse that was dug up , hence the title . After a while though the ritual does begin to take effect and the dead rise out of their graves and attack . All in all it was pretty good . If only the attack scene was a bit longer it would have been a much better film . They could have trimmed 10 or 15 minutes before the zombies attacked and added to the attack scene . This movie though will probably be enjoyed more by zombie fans than anyone else . As for the complaint I read about how the people who are killed not becoming zombies , why would they ? Sure it happens in other zombie flicks , but here only the dead that had been part of the ceremony rise again . Of course I can also see why people don't like this movie , but that is no reason to insult the ones who do either . Everyone is entitled to their opinion and there is always going to be a movie you like and a lot of people hate or vice versa .
One of the better horror anthology movies .	This is one of my favorite horror movie anthologies . All five stories are pretty good ; some of course are better than others . This one is also a lot better than Creepshow 2 , which had only one really good story to it . The first story is an ok story involving this old man killed by his daughter . He comes back to life expecting a cake cause its father's day . Nothing to surprising happens here , but it is still pretty fun . The next one involves the story that has Stephen King as the main star . This is probably the weakest one of the five , but it is worth a chuckle or two as King does a somewhat good job of playing a slow fellow . This story involves a meteor that makes grass grow everywhere . The next story is one of the best , a revenge tale with Ted Danson and Leslie Nielson . Danson has been having an affair with Nielson's wife so Nielson takes him to the beach and buries him up to his neck in the sand . He had done the same thing with his wife and the tide apparently kills them both . . . or does it ? The next tale is rather good as well as it has Adriean Barbeau in it as this obnoxious wife . Her husband finds out about a crate that may take care of her though . And the final tale is about a doctor or something , who is a bit of a clean freak . He lives in a special apartment that is supposed to be germ free , but it apparently has a roach problem . I don't even think he is a doctor , but he seems to be wearing a doctor's clothes . All in all Creepshow is a pretty enjoyable flick .
I am sorry to say this . . . I liked it better than New York . I am so ashamed .	Yes , I thought this movie was a bit better than New York . Not by much mind you , but this one has a much lower score so I know I have chosen the wrong one to like . Snake is back , and Kurt Russell once again really brings life to the character . I am sure even those who did not care for this movie can at least say he did a credible job . The plot is a bit different a bit the same . The president's daughter has joined in with a criminal from LA , which is somehow an island now and a maximum security prison just like New York . America is now ruled by strange laws combining the worst of conservatism and liberalism . Add to that the fact other countries wish to invade the US and are using what the president's daughter has to try and make their plans work . What does she have you ask ? Some sort of device that controls satellites that can cut power off to all machines and such . It can do this to any region or even the entire earth . Well once again Snake has been captured and once again he is duped into going into LA and retrieving the data , but not the president's daughter . So off he goes with a cool new outfit and some nice weapons and gadgets and just like the first one things almost immediately . He gets caught a couple of times in this movie , once by a strange bunch of people addicted to plastic surgery . He also has to play a deadly game of basketball and fly off with his " allies " in a strange helicopter . Hell , there is even a crazy surfboard scene with Peter Fonda . The movie is a bit goofy compared to New York , but I rather like the over the top way this movie is done . The effects are hit and miss , the actors are hit and miss and so is the action , but overall I think this movie is rather cool . Of course , I may think that only because Snake is back .
Hard to believe that was Tim Curry .	This film , while not great , is still worth checking out . The make-up is great . . . I still can't believe that was Tim Curry , and the atmosphere is good as well . So is the scenery and the shots in the snow and everything . They are really well done and add to the movie's mood . It could have used a bit more action maybe , but this is a fantasy movie that leans more on the romance side rather than the action side of things . The story is a gal meets boy in woods , touches unicorn and all hell breaks loose as the minions of the Lord of Darkness seize the opportunity to steal the unicorn's horn and capture the other unicorn ( there are two ) . Jack ( Cruise's character ) along with other enchanted creatures go to the Lord of Darkness's lair to free the unicorn and Jack's loved one who is also captured by the minions . Darkness really fancies her so he tries to seduce her . The movie could have used a bit more , but all in all it was a pretty good movie .
I say he kind of deserved the beating he got after the dance .	This movie would be the first of four movies and is by far the top one of the bunch . This movie would have a couple of groan moments , but not as bad as two and three , never saw four all the way through , but from what I have seen the entire movie is a groan . This movie has a new kid moving into a new place and seemingly making new friends right away . He gets invited to a beach party and there is a cute girl taking a shine to him . Wow , it can not get better than this ? Well the girl has a jerk ex-boyfriend that crashes said party and proceeds to use his karate to beat up the new kid . Granted the girl feels for him , but the guys at the party seem to look down on him . Well this sets some stuff in motion where he becomes friends with the complex he and his mom are living in maintenance man who helps make him a disguise where he is able to go to a dance and be with the girl and instead of living well enough alone he proceeds to do something to the guy who beat him , that makes said guy want to beat him up again . Well the maintenance guy turns out to be a rather good karate teacher and thus the teacher pupil relationship is born and the kid even is able to build a relationship with the cute girl . Good movie for the most part as it has some drama , action and comedy to keep a person entertained . Much more so than any of the sequels , I prefer to think of this movie as stand alone . The tournament at the end is okay , but a bit much in places .
Strange , but fun trip through a spirit world bath house .	I saw the movie " Re-Cycle " not that long ago and people on boards for that film talked about two scenes that resembled each other so I wanted to see this one . I have seen another film made by this company " Nausica " and I could tell there were similarities in music and animation style . Well the bridge scene was a bit similar , but my girlfriend says there are a lot of tales in Asian culture of holding your breath so the spirits can not see you so it really was not to a like . Actually , I found this movie while a bit flawed here and there for my tastes more entertaining than that other film and much more whimsical . A girl and her parents are driving to their new home and get detoured along the way and end up at what appears to be the entrance to a long abandoned theme park . Well the daughter , named Chihiro has a bad feeling about this place , but her parents just have to explore . Suffice to say the daughter's bad premonition about this place turns out to be correct as the parents stumble upon a lot of food in one of the buildings in this place and proceed to eat the food like Goku eats in Dragonball Z . In the end the girl ends up trapped in what is the spirit world , and this theme park which is actually a bath house for the spirits . The girl ends up getting employed by the witch who runs the bath house and has her name basically stolen by her as she goes from Chihiro to Sen , a boy named Haku at times seems to want to help her and at others seems cold to her . Her parents are pigs , a strange creature seems to really like her and she gets to meet all sorts of interesting new chaps . The problems I found with the piece you ask ? Well despite a rather lengthy runtime of 125 minutes it still feels like it needed more . Many interesting plot points wrapped up with not enough development , like No-Face . The twin sister's strange turnaround in they way she acted and treated the girl . The way she gets back seems a tad rushed too , however for the most part this movie was simply a delight .
A game in serious need of a retry mission option .	Yes , the characters were they're usually selves which was great . The fighting aspect of the game was okay . On some points though it needed lots of work . For one some of the missions in this game were to damn hard . I don't want to pull my hair out on a game , I am looking to pass time , not have a heart attack . Yet for most of the missions you had to turn off the machine if you failed because they did not give you the option to retry it . Trust me you will give up on those prison escort missions if you have to do them a couple of times and have to put up with all the dialog again . The character part also had a flaw too . It let you team up with other characters , but you could only do it for a short time before going to Naruto again and I wanted to use these characters more . I would have rather had the Marvel Ultimate Alliance format . The story though was good and I loved the interaction of Naruto and everybody as it was just like the show . I would have preferred cel shaded graphics , but the graphics are okay . So in the end an okay game that would have been better had they not made some of the missions so hard and had better teaming up . It also would have been better if it involved a more free roaming environment to explore like in Naruto : Rise of the Ninja for the xbox 360 .
I actually enjoyed this little DS game more than the game it was spun off from .	Not that it was great , however the story was a bit more appealing to me than that of part twelve . You are reunited with many of the characters from part twelve including all the playable ones , this one focuses mainly on Vaan from twelve and Penelo . They basically get their on airship and team with other characters living in lower city . You have a girl who fights using a hover board and a boy who mainly uses magic . The pirate guy Balthier and his rabbit eared companion Fran play a pivotal role in this one too . However , Queen Ashe and Basch I think his name was come in near the end therefore are mainly a bit like special appearance than anything else . A new floating continent is discovered and it contains winged people , one of whom joins the gang . All the citizens of Ivalice are trying to get there so they can gain what treasures and resources this untouched land may provide . However , there is an evil stirring in this land that threatens to take over not only the floating continent , but all of Ivalice . The game mainly takes place on stages where the characters fight in a type of strategy real time combat . It takes a bit of getting used to , but once you do it is somewhat easy to manipulate . Granted , I never got the hang of destroy the enemy crystal level and this levels provided me many a headache . However , on levels with bosses when a strategy you employed worked it was particularly satisfying . You also could buy items and trade goods in these shop you built on your airship and talk to other characters in this area too . There are also movie shots in this movie , though not the highest quality considering it is for the DS they are still fairly nice looking on par with those found on the PSOne . So while not perfect with a few real headache inducing levels this game was a step up story wise when compared to twelve on the PS2 .
While not exactly an Indiana Jones adventure , it still is a pretty fast moving action movie .	While this movie is not as good as the first Indy movie " Raiders of the Lost Ark " or the third , " Last Crusade " it compares rather favorably to " Temple of Doom " and " Kingdom of the Crystal Skull " . It mainly can compete with those two movies as it has a very fast moving story and for a low budget picture they sure do get a lot of places . The story follows Allan Quartermane and this girl who I don't recall her name played by Sharon Stone as they go on a quest for the lost diamond mines of King Solomon . They have to fight their way there through hordes of bad guys , have a train ride , have a couple of chase scenes and get caught by cannibals and nearly get cooked . Then they have to get through the mines guarded by a very annoying witch lady , in fact the movie would have been better had she never entered the movie , yes she is that annoying . Still , for a low budget movie that I am sure was trying to capitalize on the success of the Indy films this movie was rather good , much better than the very boring sequel .
Follows the book pretty good .	This is one of the few King movie adaptations that follows the book pretty good . Only Jud's wife seems to be missing from the movie , but you can't have everything that was in the book . The story revolves around an old Indian burial ground that can apparently bring the dead back to life . The book was written in 84 I think and there is actually an Italian movie called Zeder put out in 83 that is very similar in some areas to this . I don't think King was inspired by it cause I doubt he could have seen it , but there are similarities . One part from the book I wish they had left in the movie though is the path to the Indian burial grounds . The creepiest part of the book is all the strange things they saw on their way from the pet cemetery to the burial ground . In the movie it doesn't look as if there is a whole lot they have to go through to get there . For the most part a rather somber movie that could use a few more scares . . . all in all though it is a pretty good King movie .
Good , but doesn't have the fast flow of Raiders .	This was a pretty good movie , but unlike its predecessor it doesn't have the fast flow to it . Raiders goes by quick , while this one has boring parts . All the action in this one takes place in the beginning or the end with not much in the middle , but a few scenes to chuckle at . It starts great with a nightclub fight and a great plane crash sequence . Here Indiana meets Kate Capshaw's character . They end up in India I think along with Indiana's sidekick . They run into a village and go to some fort or castle where a kid is king to get this stone that was stolen from the village . There they encounter a strange cult that sacrifices people into some lava pit and the head guy there can pull people's heart out . They also use the village's children as slaves in the mine there . This leads to mine car chases and a very good battle on a bridge . All in all though this one just seems to run a bit to long , as it doesn't have as good of pacing as " Raiders of the Lost Ark " did .
Like a long episode of " Tales from the Darkside " .	I just commented on this movie in another review , but I didn't know the title . Now I do . This was a rather good haunted house type movie that does play sort of like an episode of " Tales from the Darkside " . That is not a bad thing coming from me as I liked that show . This one is really pretty creepy and it goes at a quick pace and seems to be over really quick . This one has a husband and wife moving into an old house where there apparently is something lurking . There are scenes where they show the house and you hear people having these strange conversations . They seem to really take to the wife and the wife seems to be the target of their attention . The movie progresses quite nicely and has a rather surprising end . Really good television movie that could have explained a bit more , but not too much more . I can not believe it was made in 1973 as it seemed to be newer than that to me .
Rather fast paced horror movie .	This movie is not the best , and it is not even original , but it is also not boring . Sure most of it is predictable , but hey what horror isn't ? This one is a combination of Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Deliverance . I can also see why people from West Virginia had a problem with this flick . Had it merely been set in WV I would have said what is the big deal , but the makers of the film seem to make a point of telling us it occurs in West Virginia . What to say about it , I enjoyed it for the most part as it was kind of a throw back movie , and it is nice to see a horror movie that doesn't feature a rapper who thinks he is an actor . This one has a doctor of some kind trying to get to an interview , but the road is out . So he goes the back way and while on the dirt road he rams into a group of campers car . They then proceed to go for help and that is when a group of people in the woods starts hunting them down . Then the victims do what all good horror movie victims do , the stupidest things possible to assure they all get killed . They are hiding in the killers ' house , and sneak out while the killers are sleeping , our heroes could have easily killed all these guys in their sleep , but they proceed to try and sneak out and of course wake them up . There are plenty more examples like this , but if they behaved normally and used their brain no one would be killed and then what is the point ?
Italian mafia vampires .	A bit different take on the whole vampire movie . This one has a female vampire going around doing her thing . She targets the less desirable in our society so you could say she is doing us a favor . Just to be safe she makes sure they don't become vampires too , by chopping of their heads . Unfortunately , she screws up with an Italian mob boss and now he is making more mafia vampires . This one has some humor and some action as well . Nothing to take to seriously , but it is a rather fun movie to watch . The female vampire is rather cute and Robert Loggia is great as the mob boss , there is also a cop who fits into the story as well . Quite a few kills in this one and there is also a bit of gore from what I remember and it has Don Rickles in it too . Worth checking out .
Pretty good comedy , but not quite as good as " Better Off Dead " .	This movie is sort of similar to " Better Off Dead " as it has some of the same stars . This one though isn't quite as good . Granted it is rather funny and enjoyable , there is something about " Better . . . that I like , well better . This one has these guys going to Nantucket to spend there summer vacation . While there they meet this girl who's trying to save here house from this guy who wants to turn it into a lobster restaurant . This guy really doesn't seem to like lobsters , cause in one scene he sticks it into boiling water and puts in a stethoscope so he can hear it scream . The main character is torn between this girl and the girl of the son of the guy who wants to make the restaurant . Somehow or another this leads to a big boat race showdown , kind of like in " Summer Rental " though it works a bit better here and fits into the plot a little better . Though what is the deal with boat races at this time ? Was there some weird fascination with them ? For the most part this movie delivers laughs at a good clip , but " Better Off Dead " was still better cause it was the first and the jokes worked better .
Good movie marred by a couple of flaws .	I liked this one , but it was not without its faults . One of these is clearly the monster . It does not look to good , but on the bright side they try to cover up its appearance with weird flashing lights and they usually only show it by showing its point of view . Another problem is I found myself pulling for Wilbur to succeed in his rituals . I am sure that is not the makers of this movies intent . This one has a man wanting to see a book at a library that contains many rituals for bringing those called the " old ones " to the earth . He can't convince the man in charge of the book to loan it to him , but he does get a gal to drive him home and stay the weekend . His house is rather drab , but she seems okay with it . She soon becomes part of his plans to bring the " old ones " to earth . Meanwhile , her friend and the guy with the book investigate the guy . Overall I liked it , but I wasn't thrilled with the ending as it did not seem right to me . The old guy was about three or four steps behind in everything to me , so it didn't seem right that it should end that way . Some nudity in this one , but not all that much . Could have used a bit of gore too , but the story is interesting enough to keep my attention anyway . Based on a Lovecraft story that probably explains the monster . He always describes such horrors in his story that they are nearly impossible to duplicate by building them or using computer graphics .
It is basically a really long episode of " I Love Lucy "	Not that that is a bad thing . This movie is about a newlywed couple that buys a trailer to live in . They go across the country and have one misadventure after another . Just seeing Desi trying to drive the trailer around at first is pretty funny . Though the best scene has to be where he tries to back up the trailer at the in-laws house . All in all this is a pretty funny film and one of the few films I like from the 50's era that isn't sci-fi or horror . In the end though it is very much like an episode of " I Love Lucy " , just without Fred and Ethel .
A rather funny movie featuring Sandler .	I am not a Sandler fan in the least , in fact for the most part I do not enjoy his movies . Still , this one was a rather funny little comedy even if it did have a rather unbelievable premise . Guy loses girl , guy tries to get girl back by taking in a kid who may or may not be a friend of his kid . So aside from that you have your funny scenes of Adam trying to raise a small boy to the best of his ability while also getting the attention of a new female in his life . Granted some of the jokes were just lame such as Sandler dressing up as the boy's favorite toy , but for the most part the jokes were hits . It did tend to get a bit sentimental towards the end , but not as bad as other movies of this type tend to get . Jon Stewart is in this one as is Sandler buddies Rob Snider . Steve Bushemi is also in it , but his appearance in the movie is rather stupid . So for a rather good comedy that isn't really great , but not unbearable like many Sandler comedies can get try this one on for size .
Well it does move very speedy for the most part .	I liked this movie for the most part , fast , good music , and I like Keanu Reeves , Jeff Daniels and Dennis Hopper . It has a pretty good plot and the action is excellent . My only complaint is that there is way to much Sandra Bullock in the movie and not enough Jeff Daniels . Hopper and Reeves are in it perfectly . This is only an issue for me though cause if you like Bullock you will not mind her as much , as for me I do not care for her and I definitely was not going to see Speed 2 with her being the lead character . Here we have a guy trying to secure some funds by holding an elevator full of people hostage . His plans are foiled by to plucky members of the police force and he is seemingly killed . However , this turns out not to be the case as our mad bomber is still at large and he rigs a bus to explode if the bus goes under 55 mph hence the title of the movie . Granted , it is a stupid way to try and hold people ransom because if Reeves ' character does not get to the bus on time it would have simply exploded , but hey it is just a movie . Lots of action ensues and a bit to much whiny Bullock for my tastes , but I roll with it . Great finishing fight on top of a train , however the scene with the runaway train seems just to much at this point and really is not necessary , we have already by this time put the characters through to much .
Would have been a more effective movie if they did a better job on the brother's makeup .	This movie was rather good , but it had a major flaw . Throughout the movie they hide one character's face . You know he is disfigured and considering how the people act when they see it you know it must be bad . I was expecting something like I saw in the movie " The Projected Man " ( bad movie , but they did a good job with the face ) . Then finally when you see the face at the end , I wasn't all that impressed . The guy was not all that disfigured . However , I did enjoy how the movie played out as Vincent Price was good as was Christopher Lee . Though I find the opening credits funny when they say Lee is the guest star . How do you have a guest star in a movie ? You are never quite sure where the movie is going at times and there are some twists and turns . In the end I had very little pity for the messed up brother , rather I felt sorry for Price's character that had done something wrong , but he had regret over it . The murders could have been done a bit better as they usually involved throats being slit and this did not look to good . For the most part it looked liked the killer was wiping blood on the people's neck . There is a rather interesting scene involving a brothel . Lots of cleavage and even a bare breast or two if you like that sort of thing . Overall I enjoyed it .
The dangers of marrying a single mother graphically portrayed .	Yes , this movie can serve as a lesson . Never marry a woman with three kids who then makes you change your religion and then have you move into a home that is the scene of a murder . Well all kidding aside this movie was just okay . I am guessing it made over eighty million because people thought it was a true story . Not that it was bad , but it really was not a very graphic haunted house movie and it does not even stand out all that much . For what it was though I enjoyed it . It has this couple and they buy the house . . . apparently when discussing houses with their realtor they never asked the realtor to not show them houses possessed by Satan . They move in and a bunch of weird stuff starts to happen . First , their priest has a strange experience in their house . After this though the priest keeps turning up and I have to agree with the one reviewer he seems kind of pointless . After the fly scene there was no need for him in the rest of the movie . They could have just written him out by having him have a conversation with the mother and saying he was sorry , but there was nothing he could do . There was also a police chief that seemed to be doing something , but it never came to anything . Most of the movie it is just subtle things happening here and there with something a bit major happening every now and then . Brolin is a bit bland at first , but as the movie goes he seems to become a bit more insane . All in all a rather good movie that does not do anything to rough other than this one dream sequence . I am guessing that is the main reason it was R . Unless Kidder got naked at some point , I would not have seen that as I watched it on AMC . The ending is kind of anticlimactic , but not to bad . I guess they wanted it believable rather than shocking , though I was surprised when he went back for the dog .
Nice little comedy featuring a believable John Candy .	More of a romantic comedy than just straight comedy this movie from the late John Candy was really good . He plays a policeman with a bit of a domineering mother who has not had much success in finding that special someone . He finally does , but not surprisingly his mother disapproves of her . Throughout the film we are shown how this relationship between Candy's and Sheedy's character progresses and how hard the mother tries to get in the way and stop her son from marrying an Italian girl instead of a nice Irish girl . We also get to see how much Candy's character worries about his mother when he is not with her , imagining all sorts of unfortunate events leading to her demise . We get to see a rather creative way of getting a deceased person's corpse out of an apartment building too . The funniest scene and quite frankly a rather awkward scene as well has to be the dinner scene where the son finally introduces mother to prospective new wife to be . All in all this movie is really nice and sweet , the comedy is pretty tame for the most part with nothing to crude and the relationship between the couple seems more real than most romantic comedies these days .
This sequel to me was a tad disappointing .	The sequel to the very enjoyable Chrono Trigger is just not up to par with the original . Sure the graphics are a bit better , but the story and game play are not . It is interesting enough to start as your character Serge does a routine mission collecting something or another , while at a beach he is suddenly sent to another dimension . Once where the main difference is that he died at a very young age . You meet this one girl calling herself Kid and meeting her sets you off on a quest against a villain named Lynx . During your quest you will meet a lot of companions , and I mean a whole lot of them . I think you can get forty-four total and that is almost in Suidoken territory . So many that I really can not get into them all and their stories either . However , you will get to see a rock concert and that is rather interesting . You also have to wonder why the scope of the game is so much smaller than the original Super Nintendo game Chrono Trigger . There you go all over the world and to different times . Here , you just flip to the two different realities and the world itself seems limited to just one section as there is an outer sea you never go beyond . Another fault is in the story itself . At one point your character has an out of body experience lets say and this lasts for too long . You spend way to much time for my tastes as this other character . However , if you can get past this the story picks up and is very interesting as you learn the origin of one of the characters and you get a very good ending with nice music if you can do the one thing during the final boss fight . Speaking of music , one of the games main highlights is a very good soundtrack that really captures the moods very well .
A bit better ghost story than " House on Haunted Hill " .	I only make the comparison because they are made by like the same team . This movie has a family that is going through some tough times inheriting a house left by some obscure relative . The house is a bit special as it is seemingly made of glass . The house in my view is kind of an eyesore and I don't see anyone wanting to live in a house like that . No privacy whatsoever as even in the rooms with the more opaque glass you can still make a person out . The house has a secret in its basement as it houses some mean ghosts . Their trapped , but a certain guy lets them out and then they go on the rampage . I like this one because there is on cgi creature that looks like smoke at the end and I like Tony Shaloub from his days on the television show " Wings " . Still though , to enjoy this one you really have to not over think the movie . I mean how does a man without a job have a housekeeper ? Other questions are raised as well . To bad they can not make a haunted house movie that I would rank above a seven , but they usually all have some killer flaw to them . This one though isn't boring and is somewhat enjoyable .
Horror , a monster , and revenge .	This movie is a revenge horror movie about a man who loses his son to an accident . The man is distraught and turns to an old lady to get his revenge on the ones he feels is responsible for his son's death . This one is okay , but it needed better pacing or something . None of the deaths are all that good and they are not spaced well enough . Everyone basically gets killed very quickly as this is not a particularly long movie . Lance Henrickson is good as the father who is out for revenge , there is not anyone else in the cast that really stands out . Well , the old woman stands out a bit , but that has less to do with her acting ability and more to how she looks . There is a monster in this one and it looks pretty good , but it isn't seen all that much . All in all this one has a rather depressing tone to it , and the ending really accentuates the depressing mood in this one . However , it is worth watching , certainly more so than the sequel , which I did not think was as bad as some do , but I do think it is bad . In the end this is an okay , but pretty standard revenge horror movie with a monster twist .
Good , but could have been so much better .	Here is another one I was recommended by people and it was a pretty good movie , but it could have been so much more . It is about a guy who wonders why he isn't accepted by his parents and others in the community . He soon sees and hears things that bring him to the horrible truth . The problems with this movie is that in some parts it is trying to be scary and in others funny . The climax isn't scary at all . . . just gross . There is also to much teenager in angst here , like it is simply a teenager crisis movie . It works best though when it tries to scare ya .
A rather good collection of tales .	This movie is another horror anthology . It is rather good , but it could have used a bit more . I compare it to " Doctor Terror's House of Horrors " , though in this one the title fits . It has four stories all somewhat connected by a house . The first tale is about a writer and his wife moving in . He creates a killer for his latest novel and then he starts seeing the killer roaming around in his house . This one is sort of predictable , but it does throw a few twists in the end . The next story is a bit more unpredictable , and you really do not know where the heck it is going . This one features Peter Cushing and was probably my favorite of the bunch . This guy buys the house , but it is not the house that takes center stage , but a rather strange wax museum . The third story starts out rather good and features Christopher Lee . This one has him as a rather bizarre dad who seems awfully protective of his daughter . The problem is that once you know what is going on the story does not end soon enough . It drags a bit leading to a very predictable conclusion . Then the final tale concerns an actor buying a cloak from an odd little shop . The actor really gets what he paid for . Then there is a small story about an officer who is seen throughout trying to find out what happened to this actor and then an explanation of why these things happened . Though I was not very satisfied with the explanation as I don't think it really explained Cushing's story much at all . I think they needed a bit more back story for that one . All in all though it was an interesting set of stories .
Arnold in a horror movie . . . well sort of .	Actually the first Terminator movie was just about as horror filled as this movie of the end of the world . It needs more horror and who knows it may have made for a really good movie , instead of being just another Schwarzenegger action flick . . . a movie in a line of three of his movies that really did not register on the radar ( Collateral Damage and The Sixth Day being the other two ) . Overall I enjoyed it , but as with those two movies this is not anything all that grand or cool . Just Arnold fighting the devil with a machine gun with a few twists and turns here and there and to top it all off a very predictable ending . Still , it had good action , wasn't boring , and Arnold was his usual self , not bad , but not as good as he can get with a more top notch director . This movie has him as an ex-cop haunted by painful memories ( aren't all ex-cops in these movies ) . Meanwhile Satan has taken over a man on this realm using him to find a bride so that he may have a son . That is pretty much it , like I said good action including a pretty good subway scene and you have your typical Arnold movie with a few splashes of horror for good measure .
Too many new characters .	I loved this movie as a kid , but looking back at it . . . it was more just one big toy commercial . As all the transformers we knew and loved are killed off are never seen again after the highlight of this movie the decepticon surprise attack on the autobots . After this the movie basically focuses on the many new transformers we have never seen before . The only transformer from the series that really has any screen time after the attack is Grimlock . And how the heck were the transformers killed so easily in this one ? They were shot up all the time in the series , and didn't even blink . . . here they get shot once and die . The plot with the planet was ok , and the scene with the shark robots was pretty cool , but the junk planet was lame and some of the new characters just plain sucked . What was with the female transformer ? Was she really necessary considering mainly boys were interested in this film ? All in all it was great as a kid , but looking at it now it loses its luster . It also looks bad by today's standards . Heck , it looks bad when you compare to Dragonball an anime that was out around that time .
Movie about penetrating dreams	The poster for this one made it look like Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom . The only thing those two movies had in common though was Kate Capshaw . Why they did it though was to probably get more people in the theater . Although , I thought this movie was pretty good and didn't need to attach itself to basically an unrelated flick . This one has people at a sleep research facility recruiting Quiad who has psychic powers . They have the ability to connect a person to someone else's dreams and the person who connects can observe and interact in the dream . There is something sinister at hand though as the President of the United States who has been plagued by nightmares comes to the facility for treatment . There is also the other person with the ability to go into dreams who is kind of a mystery . Though the more you find out about him the more you learn the truth . Though the best segments of this movie are the boy's snake dream and the President's dream . Good movie to watch . . . pretty enjoyable .
Rather interesting ghost story , thriller .	This movie is about a model who is trying to find a place of her own so she can take a break from her boyfriend . Well she finds a fully furnished place that is just to good to be true . Well it is . Her neighbor played be Burgess Meridith , sort of bothers her , but seems like a nice enough guy . . . a bit of an eccentric that likes to give birthday parties for his cat . The neighbors down stairs are a bit more strange as they are apparently lesbians and brother do they display affection a bit to openly . I liked the scene where the model is looking everywhere to avoid eye contact with the one lady . Well she sort of complains about these people , but she is the only one actually living in the building besides a blind old priest . So there is a mystery to be solved . Is the place haunted , or is she merely going insane . The movie plays out pretty good , could have used more scares and such , but there is gore to be seen in small doses here and there . There are also a ton of stars in this one so it is fun seeing them all in one picture like this , but I am wondering did Jeff Goldblum not want to be in this movie as he is credited way down the list when he is in the movie more than a lot of the other stars who get top billing . He is even under Tom Berenger who is billed as " guy at end " . I will not say anything else about the movie , because I don't want to ruin it , but let me just say at the end I do believe the young model's career is over . Just wish Carradine was in this more , but he really is not in it much to speak of .
Kind of a better version of " Funhouse " to me . . .	Note , I did say to me , I read another review that said they thought " Funhouse " was better , so it is all a matter of personal preference . I liked the setup for this movie , and I rather thought the killer was good too . However , for the most part it is a typical slasher movie with a bit of a predictable twist at the end . Still it moved rather quickly and was bloody so I won't complain to much . . . what does one expect from a slasher . The story , two twins ride the dark ride back in 89 and are murdered by a demented killer . Ride closes , but is getting ready for a reopen years later . Group of obnoxious college kids are heading for New Orleans for spring break or something . They decide to spend the night in the very said dark ride where the murders were committed ( some of the party do not know this fact ) and this is where they are picked off one after the other . So there you have it , nothing to different , you get you kills , your nudity and your extremely dumb kids and now you have your typical slasher movie . It even comes equipped with your rather stupid security guard . So the theme for the day when watching this is yelling at the television is " Don't go there stupid " and " what the hell are you doing ? " . I am also wondering how the heck is this fun house setup anyway ? I mean at the beginning it is a ride with a track and carts , but when our gang gets there it seems more setup for a walk through as there is no way you can pick out some of the things you see if it was setup for a cart . Still fast moving and bloody so it was okay . Though these after dark movies are not really to graphic from what I have seen so far , nothing compared to theatrically wide released " hills have eyes " for example .
Really good up to a point . Though Godzilla seems groggy in it .	Yes , this Godzilla film was not even supposed to have Godzilla in it . It was going to be strictly a Mothra movie and she was supposed to fight a monster whose name I think was Baigon or something . The movie makers wisely though changed it to Godzilla as they thought he would be a better draw . So we basically have an egg washing up on the shoreline after a typhoon . A greedy owner of some sort of amusement park or something buys up the egg and of course wants to hatch it . The fairy twins come along and try and get the egg back , but of course the greedy people are not going to listen which means the eggs could hatch and a Mothra larvae could go on the rampage at any time . Add to this the fact Godzilla is back again fresh off his fight with King Kong , proving that he didn't get killed by the big ape after all . Still , he is not himself as he gets his tail caught in something and it falls down and he stumbles into a building . Just not himself and then he must face the moth form of Mothra and he gets hammered a bit . This is the same Godzilla that would go on to defeat much more powerful foes , but here he just has not gained that level of skill . Well the fight with the moth form of Mothra is the highlight , after this the movie just is not up to par as it is mainly Godzilla walking through barren country side instead of stomping through cities and a pointless school teacher and her missing students on an island that seems like it is there to pad the film a bit . Still it is a rather good and well developed Godzilla movie though I guess technically it is a Mothra movie more .
They should have just made this a bloody R movie .	Instead they tried to make it a PG-13 movie , and toned down the whole thing . In the end , I found it was a pretty good movie , but not nearly as good as it could have been . Martin Sheen should not have been in this one , and I think he was horribly miscast . The special effects were good in some scenes and over the top in others . . . the finale in Hell is a bit much and it is almost painful to watch , as there is just too much cgi . This is the story of a mercenary who is killed and comes back as an agent for Hell . This clown guides him , but the clown in the animated series was creepy while this one is to comedy oriented . All in all it has some good action here and there and some good scenes it just needed to be made into a more adult oriented movie like Blade .
Funny xmas movie featuring the Griswolds . . . however , it gets to sentimental at times .	Just because it is a Christmas movie I am afraid they do go a bit heavy at times on the sentimental stuff . The movie has the Griswolds , not going on a family trip of any kind , but rather having a nice family vacation right in their own home . You know the type , the one where everyone comes together to celebrate the xmas season together as the parents of both spouses are there . You know the type , hell in your house type scenario . Why anyone would subject themselves to the kind of torture that can only come from having as many family members under one roof is beyond me . We also know the Griswolds do not have the best track record when it comes to planning that perfect vacation . Not only do they have trouble getting a tree right from the get go they also have pandemonium when the in-laws arrive . Clark has run ins with his yuppie neighbors , of course he would be living by people like this . It always seems people who like to decorate their house get stuck by the ones who like the minimal xmas and vice versa and boy does Clark believe in a lot of lights . Of course , once he gets them all put up there is a bit of a trick to getting them on . Then guess who stops by , but the relatives that are not invited in the form of good ol cousin Eddie ( Randy Quaid stealing the show a bit in this one ) . So there you have it , a more realistic movie than European to be sure , but I still liked it a bit better and of this one the first one and European I like this one the least . Never saw Vegas , from the previews it did not look all that good to me . However , this one is still funny and even though I consider it the weakest it is actually rather strong for a xmas movie .
A story of a private school with a deadly secret .	This story is of a young woman sent to a mysterious boarding school in the middle of nowhere . She is driven there by her parents , her mom being the one eager to see her daughter off , while her father is less than thrilled with the idea . Of course , once she is at this school she has to deal with the typical problems of learning to adjust , dealing with the teachers and bully's , and dealing with the horrific visions and dreams afflicting her sleep . Well that last one is not so typical , but it is what makes this a horror movie . Yes , at this school you have the teachers and students , both seem a bit out there , so you are left wondering who is responsible for the terror that lurks in the woods . Though it is not to hard to figure out thanks to a story told by one of the students . The movie works rather well and has a rather good cast too , Bruce Campbell is in it too and that is always a plus as he adds a spark near the end of the movie . I also enjoyed seeing him take on something he is actually known for taking on in an earlier set of films . The ending itself could have used more work in explaining what was going on . I was not sure of the motivation , though I was sure of the who was responsible and the identity . Still , nothing like a mystery in an all girls boarding school as the setting for an interesting movie experience .
It is okay , but I prefer the original as the fighting here was rather disappointing .	I was not exactly clamoring for a prequel to the original Baten Kaitos , I would have preferred a sequel . Still , I love role playing games so I thought I would give it a try , especially if it still had the uber cool fighting system . Alas , they changed it , and now what was the strength became its biggest weakness for me . You still use cards , but now all your characters use the same limited deck , there is no defensive turn , and even the most weak enemies can be a bother if your deck starts off on a bad foot . The story is rather good though as it does provide a nice back story for our characters and we are at times throughout the game taken even further than the 20 years before we start out at the beginning to the time of the god wars . We join Sagi , Milly , and Guillo on a journey to try and stop the empire from trying to take over the other lands with pro machination . Yes , we go over many of the lands we have seen before and we even meet some of the old characters from the first one , albeit a bit younger . The voices sound better as well , because in the first one the voice actors seemed to be talking through a coffee can or something . This one doesn't have quite the twist of the first one , but there is a bit of twist to be found here as well . If only they had retained the combat system I would have said they were equal in terms of fun .
Pretty good sequel . . . though not as well made .	This sequel to Conan the Barbarian is a pretty good movie in its own right , though it is not of the same quality . The first one is definitely better , but this one is a more fun movie not to be taken as seriously . It also has more action than the first and this one needs it , as the acting isn't quite as good . Arnold is still good as Conan , but I didn't care for Wilt as the bad guy unless he was fighting . Grace Jones added nothing to the movie and does Conan really need this many people in his party ? His sidekick gets kind of annoying after awhile too . Fortunately , though there is plenty of action to take your mind of these qualities . . . though this one isn't nearly as bloody as the first one .
One weird movie . . . but still pretty good .	This film was very strange , but I really enjoyed it . It starts out ( and I haven't seen it in a while so I may be wrong ) with a guy at lunch or something and he has to track down some author . Another guy with an ax tries to kill the guy that has to track down the author . Well anyhow my favorite stuff just about exclusively happens in the town . All this weird stuff happens . . . things the author has written about . It kind of tails off once they leave town , but the ending is kind of disturbing .
Nice adventure movie for kids .	As a kid , I saw this one at the theater . As a kid it is a really fun and funny action ride . A bunch of kids getting together find a map in the attic of one of the kids and they decide to see what they can find . Meanwhile , some criminals are loose and they find out about the map as well later on as their hideout is the starting point . A very good movie for kids , but it is just ok for adults , though it is a lot more watchable for adults than most of the kid oriented movies these days . Though there are a few instances that may be to dark for the smaller tykes out there as there are a couple of dead bodies here and there . Looking back at this movie , one thing is interesting . When seeing this movie as a kid , it seemed like their adventure was really long and they were underground a bunch . When I saw it later again , they really weren't in the underground chamber all that long . One thing though I would like to see is the octopus scene that was cut out of the movie , but the one kid refers to at the end ( when the kid refers to it should have been cut out as well ) .
The tall man returns .	This was a rather good movie and when it came out there was quite the advertising campaign for it . One that horror movies rarely got back then . The first one though was still better , this one sort of picks up where that left off as there is some backtracking , but I actually liked the way the first one left off . It had a good spooky finish and this movie sort of ruins it . Angus Scrimm is good as the tall man and the guy who played Reggie is back as well . Jodie , however , is played by a different guy , though it doesn't detract to much from this one as he was a kid in the first so you don't really notice . However , when they switch back to the original kid in the next one it is a bit noticeable . Here we have Reggie and Jodie going after the tall man . He has basically wiped out both of their families so they now have nothing left to lose . They get themselves an arsenal that includes two shotguns secured together that for some reason would become popular . So popular in fact that they would return in the next movie even though it was clearly dropped and left behind in this one . The tall man has his weapons two as he has three spheres of doom here . In the next movie they would pretty much be the main focus , but here they are still just a weapon used by the tall man . He also has his dwarfs and his creepy morticians . This one is a bit more action oriented than the first and not as creepy , but it does work rather well and is entertaining .
A movie in dire need of a more climatic ending .	This movie was rather cool for the most part , but it is of course not without its faults otherwise I would have given it a better score . The cast is great as Christian and Matthew do great in their respective roles . The story , apparently dragons were the cause of all the mass extinctions of our past and now they are here to burn away our future . The world gets wiped out quickly save for some plucky survivors who live in underground areas . They are trying to raise crops and such and avoid the dragons for they have no shot at stopping their onslaught . That is until this group lead by Matthew comes and tells them of their plan to stop the dragons once and for all . They even fly helicopters , unafraid of the dragons that fly the skies . They have managed to track down the source beast and its hiding grounds , seems like all the dragons are females save for one and it is the guy dragon that must be killed . This movie plays out pretty good for the most part , you see lots of dragons , but quite frankly they all look exactly the same . Even the male dragon looks like all the others , only bigger . They need more variations or something . Also , a more thrilling ending could have been used as it is not as good of an action scene as I was anticipating for the end fight . Still though , it was pretty cool and at least you saw the dragons a lot , unlike an earlier dragon movie " DragonHeart " .
Not as good as " The Beyond " but its pretty good .	This movie like " The Beyond " is heavy on atmosphere and gore . Unfortunately it doesn't look as good as " The Beyond " did . Beyond looks newer than what it is while this one looks older . The music isn't as good either . It did try to have more of a plot , but this also detracts from it because there are more slow stretches as well . The zombies look better , however . In the end this is an ok horror film . The story is about a priest who hangs himself and this unlocks the gates of hell . Which is a title they should have stuck with because this ain't no city of the living dead . The whole town consists of a cemetary , a few houses , and a bar . The zombies are pretty easy to kill too , you only have to stab them and their down . Unfortunately , the seem to teleport around so you never know when one will appear behind you and pull your brains out ( this seems to be the only way the know how to kill ) . The priest appears and disappears at random too , and if he casts his gaze at a person , yuck ( the person he stares at to long dies a most unplesent death ) . There is one other scene in this movie where you meet the most overprotecting dad ever seen . He really drills it into the guy that the he doesn't approve of the guy seeing his daughter . Meanwhile , the heroes have only so much time to kill the dead priest again and make sure the gates of hell stay closed . This doesn't stop them from stopping for lunch and running a few erons before heading to the cemetary for the final showdown . And what was with that kids name John John . His parents didn't have much imagination . And the ending kinda makes no sense . All in all though it is a horror movie so people are going to be a tad stupid and for the most part I did enjoy watching it , but " The Beyond " was much better .
Fast paced fight movie .	This movie is about a tournament called of course " Mortal Kombat " . Based on the video game it is a fast paced action movie . It does a rather good job , unfortunately the one's who made this film focus the film on the character of Liu Kang instead of the more likable Johnny Kage . . . they also kill Kano way to quick . All in all though it is a fun movie not to be taken to seriously . The highlight of this one has got to be the fight between Scorpian and Cage as it looked the coolest and had the best martial arts . The fights with the big monster though are stupid and I didn't really like the way the last fight concluded . On the plus side it was a better ending fight than in the sequel .
Three rather good stories that aren't very scary .	This one is more of a comedy than a horror and is listed as such here . It is also an anthology ala " Creepshow " . This one though is tied together not by a comic , but rather by a cat ( hence the title ) . The cat roams through three stories . . . two of them from short stories by King and a third that was new I think ( if it was a short story I have never read it ) . The first one is about a man who wants to quit smoking so he goes to a rather different type of clinic . This one was a short story that was called " Quitter's Incorporated " . This one differs here and there to the story , but when have you seen a totally faithful translation . This one stars James Woods as the one who wants to quit and Alan King as the one who runs the business . Unfortunately , Woods doesn't realize what he has gotten himself into as this was a mob business that uses its techniques it acquired during those years . Let's just say this would be a very persuasive way to get someone to quit . The next story is from a short story called " the Ledge " I think . It has Robert Hayes as a man who has been cheating with another man's wife and the other man wants revenge . He makes Hayes an offer he can not refuse as Hayes must navigate his way around the ledge of a giant skyscraper . The final story is the weakest of the lot as it stars Drew Barrymore as a girl who is being hunted by something in the walls . The cat is featured in this story more directly than the others . All in all a rather interesting anthology , but man why did you have to hear that old Police song so much ?
Moore's last outing not bad , but nothing special .	I enjoyed this one to a certain degree , but it is definately not Moore's best Bond flick in fact it is probably the weakest . The problem is not Bond or Walken who do superb jobs , or even Grace Jones , but the story is just not that great . Bond on a fire truck is just to much . Also , Tanya Roberts just isn't a Bond girl . Nothing against her , she just doesn't seem to be the type , kind of like Denise Richards in " The World Is Not Enough " . That said there are some good action scenes in this one , but all Bond movies have good action sequences and the bad guys motives are interesting to . It is just hard to pinpoint though why I don't like this one as much there is just something about it . Though interesting side note . . . this is the movie that really started the snowboarding craze .
Great special effects for the times , but some of the subplots are just silly .	This was the typical 70's disaster flick and for the most part it is good . The special effects were very good considering the time it came out . . . models and sets used for the most part . The only place computer graphics could have helped is the backgrounds and wider scope shots . Heston plays the main character pretty good and Kennedy also does a good job . What Walter Matthau was doing in it , in such a dumb role is anyone's guess . This one also takes a bit to get going . As with most disaster flicks you have to establish the cast , but this one takes it to the extreme . After the earthquake , a lot of these characters aren't seen much anymore . Another problem is some of the sub plots . Heston who was cheating on his wife , the crazed National Guard , and the motorcycle stuntman to name a few . They could be tolerated to some extent , but the most awful subplot was the couple on the plane . It was almost like a scene from airplane it was so bad . Every time it switched to them after the plane escaped crashing on the runway I groaned . They were also in one of the last scenes in the movie when they should have showed what happened to the stuntman . For the most part though I thought it was an entertaining flick . . . though I did hate the ending .
You know one man would not be able to do all this , but it is still cool .	Yes , this movie is good cheesy fun . Watching Arnold walking at the beginning with a giant tree you know you are in for a fun time ( I have always wanted to recreate the shot myself ) . The story we have here is someone has been targeting Arnold's old platoon buddies and guardsmen have been placed at his home for protection . Well they don't protect much as Arnold's daughter is kidnapped and Arnold must now assassinate someone in order for her to be returned to him safely . . . well Arnold goes on a wild ride to try and get his daughter back and to fool the kidnappers into thinking he is still going through with the hit . He finds assistance in his crusade and then he finds a whole bunch of weapons apparently all hunting stores have a huge arsenal of weapons at the touch of a button . Then comes the final assault , a super gun blazing exhibition like no other . . . one man against a small army . Hell Arnold even kills a few with garden tools . So is this movie high quality entertainment . . . well no , but it is good cheesy fun .
Not as bad as I have heard .	This movie is pretty gory and I enjoyed it more than Zombie 3 . The plot though to take a phrase from Mystery Science Theater 3000 must be none of our business . First off you walk right in this scene of a voodoo priest doing some kind of ritual and some people come in with guns and you think did the DVD skip an hour ? This is just the prelude though . Of course it looks like maybe there was another one of these before and this is showing a recap or something . Then another group of people come to the island . . . you aren't told anything and it looks like it is the next day or something , but with no help from the movie you will deduce that this one blond is this kid you saw earlier trotting away from danger . Anyway there are some good deaths the zombies do in fact resemble ninjas though why people complain about how fast they are and stuff like that is beyond me . . . I guess these same people would hate return of the living dead as well ( not that this one is close to that one mind you ) . In the end this is a better zombie 3 ( except for the music ) and the deaths are pretty good . The ending though will make you say " What just happened " ?
Western style rpg . . . delivers for the most part , but the searching is annoying .	This rpg is at its best right at the beginning when we are first introduced to the characters . All use special weapons called arms . . . we have a six shooting female who is the leader , a sort of machine gun toting youth , a sniper rifle professor type , and an Indian with a double barrel shotgun . It is fun meeting the characters and seeing how they ended up on the same train , and for the most part the rest of the game is okay too . You have your basic gathering of elementals , going into town , exploring dungeons aspects of the game which is basic in most role playing games . However , this one is set apart by its wild west type setting , granted it is also a bit futuristic too . The fighting is also a bit different , but only in the fact you must periodically reload , and depending on the character's weapon this may take anywhere from 2 to 6 or more turns . You will also ride horses in the game and actually fight while on the horses in this one too . The story is a bit good , but tapers off a bit in the end . You have your recurring villains , mainly a cowboy villain whose team you take on right at the beginning and a group of mysterious priest like people who have a secret . The problems come in the form of the searching . You have to go out and find the places to visit while being attacked by random encounters and trust me this gets annoying . Most of the time it is not to bad finding your next location , but at others it is very stressful when you are not quite sure where to search and you are under constant attack from monsters . I also did not care for the fact after a certain amount of leveling up your weapons , after awhile you cannot anymore . Still , all in all a nice role playing game that does some things different and the dungeons are a bit like Zelda dungeons as each of your characters have special abilities or items that can help open new paths or disable traps .
The last good horror movie featuring Michael Myers .	As far as I am concerned this was the last Halloween movie with Myers worth watching . I prefer the third movie which has nothing to do with him to all the mess that follows . This movie is a continuation of the first as it is still the same night . Myers has of course gotten up and Jamie Lee has been taken to a hospital to recuperate from her wounds . Of course this one tries to shock us with its revelations and such , but nothing to shocking . There are kills and once again Dr . Loomis is obsessed with getting Myers . Some good kills are to be found as is to be expected . Though I always feel sorry for the guy that gets hit by the car as he is obviously not Myers . There is a television version of this one that totally blows as it is very toned down and they even have a happier ending . Watch the uncut theater version as it is much better .
The dangers of skipping class and attending a movie opening graphically portrayed ! ! !	This movie was better than I expected . A total gorefest from 1985 this movie has a girl getting a free movie pass for herself and a friend to attend the premiere of a movie in what is a newly renovated theater . They have no clue as to what the movie is about , however one of them is persistent in going despite the other one rather going to class . Well they go to the movie and there are props from the movie they are going to see about the place . Another girl in a another group tries on a mask from said movie and you know what this is going to lead to . Inside the theater we are introduced to others in the theater . . . we have two guys who try to hook up with our original two ladies , a husband and wife , a dude with two gals , and even a blind man . There are others , but there are quite a lot so I will not do them all . . . lets just say there is plenty of bodies to kill . Well the movie begins playing and it seems rather cheesy . The one girl who did not really want to attend is already having regrets as it is a horror movie , but the two guys can now take the opportunity to comfort them . However , all is not right with the world as soon as the mask appears on film and infects someone on screen the same thing happens to the girl who tried it on earlier . Before you know it there is general mayhem and panic as for some reason the patrons are locked in this theater and must fight for survival against the ever increasing demon horde that multiplies their number with every person killed . You have plenty of bodies , but then they send more people in the form of four cocaine users who seemed a bit pointless at first , but at the end you see what they were there to set up . So lots of blood and kills , so what is wrong with the picture you ask ? Well for one thing there is a good plot going with the movie playing and what is happening in the theater . However , this is never touched upon again after they destroy the projector . Nothing is really explained at all , what is the cause stuff like that . There is also a bit of a pointless scene where they find some rooms behind the theater wall and I thought this would clear things up , however in the end it felt like an unnecessary add . The movie is also filled with lots of pretty girls the lead one is especially attractive as she had gorgeous eyes . However , the only nudity we get is from one of the cocaine group and she looks like she is twelve in the face . That stuff aside this movie moves fast and has lots of great kills and good gory special effects .
Wow . . . um wtf happened there ?	Yes this movie starts out like Ringu and seems to borrow from that heavily . Instead of the cursed video tape , however , we have the a seemingly evil entity using cell phones to go from victim to victim . As this played out I thought to myself , " not the most original movie ever , but it is interesting enough " . Near the end of this movie things shift a bit and never before has a movie made me say " wtf " at the end as this movie did . I mean I haven't a clue what that ending meant or anything . Actually , it could have ended two or three more times before the actual end as this movie had more apparent endings than the final chapter in the Lord of the Rings trilogy . Granted I figured the slimy hug from the ghost wasn't the end , even I was caught off guard by the actual ending . I thought I figured the end , I didn't it threw one curve after another , and in the end we had an uber confusing ending . Before the ending and through most of the movie it is more like " Ringu " as we have people trying to find out and trying to stop the mysterious killings as the victims are apparently getting calls from themselves just as they die . Some rather good kills in this one and a couple of creepy images , but the ending is just really a bit much , it almost seemed to be a happy ending , but then it sort of did not . Still worth a look see if you like Asian horror movies .
I love that MechaGodzilla .	I always thought MechaGodzilla was the coolest monster Godzilla fought . He shoots lasers , missiles , and can fly . This is his first appearance in a Godzilla movie . Created by aliens who turn into guys wearing fake monkey masks when killed they send MechaGodzilla to take care of all the people . It clobbers that one armadillo like monster that sometimes pals with Godzilla then it fights Godzilla . At this point it looks exactly like Godzilla until the aliens hit a switch , which burns of the skin , and MechaGodzilla is revealed . They have a brief fight where Godzilla is apparently killed and the robot is a bit messed up as well . What I don't understand is why the aliens need a human to put the robot back together . In the end MechaGodzilla gets his act together and the heroes awaken this stupid fuzzy monster that is quite ineffective against MechaGodzilla . You know who though shows up just in time though .
Zombies on the rampage .	This is a pretty decent zombie flick with no real plot or story to ruin the fact it is just zombies on the attack . A professor does something that doesn't seem like a big deal but ends up waking up the dead and the dead kill him then go for these people who look like they came to the house to shoot a porn video or something . That is not what they are there for really it just seems they have no real purpose to be there in the first place . Of course people talk about how you want to see these people dead , I didn't find this to be the case with me . Some of them yes , but not all . I mean these people never just leave someone to die they always try to fight off the zombies together . In fact one of the guys could have easily gotten away , but he sticks with his wife or girlfriend whose foot got trapped in a bear trap . All that aside the zombie attacks are rather good , especially when the maid gets it with the scimitar . Another thing worth mentioning is the guy who plays the kid . I think he does look like a somewhat ugly kid , in fact I have seen kids that look like that . You can tell this guy is older though especially when he frowns or screams and it is rather disturbing to see him try and make out with his " mom " . Couldn't they think of a better plot device for having the kid run away than that ?
Pretty good flick .	This one just seems it should be funnier . It starts out really funny , but then most of the humor just disappears . Arnold plays a cop looking for the wife of this criminal . She is hiding from him so she can keep her son away from him . They figure they have where the child might be so Arnold's partner who used to be a schoolteacher is going to infiltrate the class and find out who the kid is . She gets sick though , and Arnold has to fill in for her and it is funny to watch him adjust . After awhile though he gets to good at his job and the movie just isn't as funny .
Interesting enough show , kept me entertained as a child .	This show followed the exploits of the Thundercats , a race of human cat people whose planet was destroyed so they were forced to relocate to another planet . Their future leader , Liono is but a child when they leave their planet , but thanks to a pod malfunction he ages to an adult while the others in the group essentially stay the same age . He is given the sword of omens and a cat claw and they start a new life on a planet filled with many perils including mutant men , pirates , and the evil creature Mummra . The cartoon was a pretty action packed , the dialog at times was corny and as the show progressed it got weaker , but that is really a lot of cartoon shows at the time . I have to admit , of all the cartoons there were this was probably the easiest one to collect all the toys for as they really did not add to many characters to the show as it went along . You basically had Liono , Panthro , Cheetara , the tiger dude ( can't remember his name ) , Snarf and the two kid ones . The villains consisted of about three mutants , Mummra and a group of pirates that really did not have all that many episodes . There were another set of super berserker warriors and two or three more Thundercats introduced in later episodes , but I do not ever recall seeing them as toys . So all in all a good show , with the one story arc of Liono having to past these tests facing the other Thundercats as one of the highlight multiple part stories .
So why was a sequel never made ?	At the end during the credits there is basically something that says there is going to be a sequel , but there never was one . Kind of surprising they didn't considering this made 39 million back in 1982 which was a good take to say the least for that time . Considering it was rated R and didn't have anyone really big in it . . . the only person I recognize in the cast is Richard Moll . In the end though they didn't , which is too bad . This one is a good , bloody , fantasy film . The story isn't the best , but it has good action and sword fights , though the director really likes to show scenes where swords break like glass . As a kid I had trouble following the plot though as it was a bit hard to distinguish the good and bad guys , but later when I saw it , it was easier though I still say it could use a better plot .
This one was Italian ?	This surprises me , cause I don't remember it being dubbed and Ernest Borgnaine was in it . Apparently , though it was . From what I remember it was pretty good too . It revolved around a cop who gains super powers after a nuclear accident . There is one catch though as any time he sees something red he loses his powers . Like I said it was a pretty funny comedy , nothing to great but it is worth a look see .
Not the greatest movie ever , but I found it entertaining for what it was .	The reason I saw this one was mainly because Sean Connery was in it . I was a huge Bond fan and he was my favorite 007 so I like seeing him in any movie I can . This one would not have been as good without him , but with him it was a rather good movie filled with some good scenes here and there , and some rather dull ones or bad ones too . This one has Alan Quartermaine being recruited to be the leader of a team of , well Extraordinary Gentlemen to stop a madman bent on causing war . The other members include The Invisible man , Mina Harker , Dorian Gray , Dr . Jekell / Mr . Hyde , Captain Nemo , and even Tom Sawyer . This one has some good action as I have said , though I didn't care much for Hyde's appearance and it makes me glad they went with a totally cgi Hulk . There are some predictable moments in this one as you can pretty easily guess who the traitor is , but for the most part it was enjoyable to me .
It would have probably been funnier for me if I had seen the movies it parodied .	Never really watched Top Gun and that is the movie this one takes the most shots at . Charlie Sheen is in the lead role here and he is very funny and good . . . I always think he is one of the funnier actors out there . Jon Cryer whom Charlie costars in two and a half men is also great in this one and Lloyd Bridges is right at home in a spoof movie . I also like Cary Elwes . The plot has a man recruiting the best pilots around , he recruits Topper Harley out of an Indian reservation and before you know it you are meeting the recruits and their fates in the case of " Dead Meat " who just has a wonderful family and everything is going right for . You of course have the meeting with the sexy lady that ends up with a rather bizarre love scene ala Nine and a Half Weeks involving foods . Still Lloyd Bridges takes the cake as the funniest guy in the movie as the man has had quite a few operations . This movie is a spoof though , so along with all the funny things going on , there are some dud jokes as well . This is also the type of spoof where it is dependent on you having seen the films it parodies for maximum effect .
Godzilla vs a giant wasp .	This one is okay , but it could have been better . People say it has better fight scenes than Godzilla 2000 , but I actually liked the fights in that one better . This one doesn't pick up where the last one left off ; instead it once again reinvents Godzilla . Though it is the same cool looking rubber suit they used in 2000 . In the next movie they would once again reinvent Godzilla and the suit looks totally different . I wish they used the formula of the 90's movies and made them be one continuous movie rather than starting a different Godzilla movie every time . It just works better for me . Here the Japanese are once again trying to destroy Godzilla this time by using a machine that creates a type of black hole . They enlist the aid of a man who makes miniature stuff which brings up a scene I found totally funny . He does this trick where he puts these ingredients under a hat , he lifts the hat and it is mixed into a cooked spoonful of food . The kids think it is magic , but then a woman reveals it is just a hat that microwaves and little robots are mixing the food , and the kids go away disappointed . To me those tiny robots were kind of impressive . Well inevitably the black hole machine opens up another dimension or something and that is how the wasp first enters . Okay movie , but nothing quite as good as the 90's movies .
A horror / thriller that when first watched you just don't know where it is going .	I saw this movie a long time ago . It was , however , a rather disturbing movie about a Vietnam veteran whose rather mundane life is going to pieces by strange visions . He is also being stalked by what are seemingly demons . Through the movie you watch as this character tries to find answers to why he is being stalked by these creatures and by visions of his deceased son . He tries to read up on demons , all the time going through strange episodes , at one point trapped in a hospital where they want to do some rather strange experiments on him . He seems to be getting somewhere when a fellow veteran lays out a story for him . That is about all I can say without giving to much away , it is though a rather interesting movie and I really had know idea where it was going , though the ending did make sense and you will probably go " that makes sense " . The images are disturbing and for the most part it is a good movie . I could have used more horror and less thriller , but that is me . . . I am more of a horror fan as one could probably tell from my reviews . The cast is rather good , the story interesting like I said give me some more scares and this one would have been really good .
A fairly solid Stephen King adaptation .	Of all of King's adaptations this one has to rank up there rather high as far as following the story . Granted it has a few add ons and a different ending , but these actually enhance the story more rather than take away . The story has a writer of a trashy tabloid on a hunt for a strange owner of a small aircraft . Seems where this person sets his plane down there are deaths and misfortune . A young upstart female reporter is also on this case . Well it is rather easy to figure out what the night flier is and what he is doing , but it is still fun watching the process . It all leads to one very bloody conclusion and a rather nice ending . The acting is fairly good for what amounts to a rather low budget movie and the effects are rather good too . They did not spread this one out to long as this one moves at a very quick place and it does not have many dull moments . Most of the super bloody scenes occur at the end though , as most of the movie is the reporter one step behind the night flier with him interviewing people in airports the night flier has touched down in . Various flashback scenes and such . All in all not a great movie , but a fairly good Stephen King film .
The cute characters and music make this one .	As for the story it needed a bit of work , as did the game play . Just a few tweaks here and there could have turned this game into something a bit more special . As it is the nice music and colorful characters of Riviera make this game a fun little game . The story has these two angels from Asgard descending into the realm of Riviera , a place that was formerly Utgard a realm of demons . Well demons have begun appearing again in this land and a mage known as Hector needs these to angels to begin the retribution , a process that will wipe out these land and the sprites who now make it their home . Well one of the angels known as Ein has an altercation with a mysterious lady known as Ursula and she uses her powers to make Ein forget who he is and he wakes up being taken care of by two sprites Lin and Fina . In the end , Ein realizes that the sprites do not deserve to be destroyed so he goes on a quest to seal powerful demons up and try to stop the retribution along with Fia and Lin . Two others join later in the form of a winged girl Serene and a witch named Cierra . During the trip they have many funny little conversations and you have your choices . The game play is different though as you move to a screen and you have a move option and a look option . You do not really move your character over the screen , but rather give these two commands . The fighting is a bit traditional in that it is turned based . However , at the beginning of every battle you pick three participants and four items you wish to bring into battle . Items have a set number of uses so after so many turns they break . You also level up by using items as well . . . certain items go to the characters , not all of them learn new skills or can do anything other than throw the weapon . You have an option to practice fight , when you do this your items do not lose their number of turns and after using the weapon so many times your character gets more hit points and other skills as well . Also , you only have so many look points as well . Once they are used up you can no longer open treasure chests and do other things . These are replenished after normal battles ( not practice ones ) and the better you do in battle the more points you are awarded . Like I said a few tweaks in the game play and the story would go a long way toward really improving this as it is rather good game .
In the end a fairly good update of the Friday the 13th series .	Yes , this movie is basically a reboot of the Friday the 13th movies and a new start for Jason as he finally has a chance to be alive in a movie for the first time since Friday the 13th part IV . This one kind of blends in the first three movies of the series into one adding the marvel the cell phone and a few other new innovations to bring the series into this new age . Granted , at one point we had the typical no one has a signal scene which is becoming a standard in today's horror films . So we basically get group of people go camping and get killed off , another group is later shown going to a house in the same area and a dude who is looking for his sister from the first group is hunting for clues . As expected you have Jason killing people in different ways though the machete is weapon of choice . You get a good bit of killing , a Jason with really fast reflexes , and some boobs to look at . However , this remake just is not up to other recent horror remakes such as Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Halloween . They did stuff to really up the ante . Texas ramped up the gore and tension and Halloween gave you some good back story scenes with Michael as a child . This one really does nothing new as the only thing different is Jason new found speed . In the end it is nothing more than just another updated Friday the 13th . Granted to me that made it still enjoyable for what it was as it was nice to see Jason in a gimmick free environment again . Let's face it they paired him with Freddy , shot him into space , made him a body snatcher , sent him to the big apple , made him battle a telepath , and brought him back from the dead so it was nice to see him as just a retarded deformed big dude out for revenge for his mom . So expect some jump moments and some yuck moments as this movie may not be anything new or special , but it still is a pretty good slasher movie .
Of the Tale's games I have played probably the weakest , but still good in its own right .	This game in the Tale's game series is the weakest I have played so far . Not that it is bad as the characters were funny and well done and the story was pretty good the graphics are just a bit underdone here . Also , Tales of Symphonia and Tales of the Abyss were so expansive and encompassing while this one seemed really bogged down at times . Granted you have the cute cooking stuff and skits the fighting is the same too for the most part . However , I will say this of this entry it has the easiest fighting of the trio I have played . I didn't die once in this one , not even during the hardest fights , my characters buzz sawed through everyone . The story a brother and sister are on a boat trying to avoid an enemy of some sort , however they end up landing on a massive vessel so large it has its own towns and lakes and it is here their journey takes place . What makes this one unique is also a bit of a limiter as all the action takes place on this vessel in the sea . You basically have one main city and a couple of really small towns you only go through once and you also progress through this game in chapters . The fighting has the same flaw as the other tales games as one feels compelled to use only the main character as it is the one I got used to in this case Senel . Still despite its rather small scope it still is interesting enough to keep your interest up and the fights in this one go by super fast .
It is really good up to a point then falters at the end .	When this movie started with a man taking his comatose son to the hospital only to arrive and find many other parent's there with their children I figured this may be a really good horror movie . Flash ten years later and we find an eerie world where many children are in hospitals or clinics , being taken care of in this state . These comatose people for some reason convulse at certain times too , which intrigued me of the possibilities of the origin of this affliction . The brother of the father at the beginning of the film returns home after a stint in jail and is looking for another chance . Things seem to go okay for him at first until the children wake up and go on a zombie like killing spree . However , they do not eat anyone as one poster states , they generally just beat or shoot their victims and stuff to that effect . Well the movie becomes very tense here as the basic group of survivors go on the run . . . then the movie comes crashing down once the brother of the one girl gets killed , then the movie just crashes . The explanation rather absurd , the ending makes little since as no the fact that the kids convulsed at a specific time each day seemed to need a more science fiction origin rather than what we get . At this point little is going to make sense , plot points are left unresolved and what had the potential to be a very unique and cool horror movie just bogs down . Still , it is pretty good and worth a look see .
Of the Rocky's probably the most realistic .	This movie was a rather good drama starring Sylvester Stallone as the title character Rocky . It also is one of those movies that has a theme that sticks with a person because it is so memorable . The movie , too is memorable although kind of slow moving in places as well . They try a bit to hard making Rocky seem real , showing a bit to many details of his courtship of Adrien , though I have to say that these scenes while slow help with the ending making it a bit more emotional . The story , the heavy weight champion of the world Apollo Creed ( Carl Weathers ) is about to fight a title bout . Well the person he is supposed to fight drops out so Apollo decides to fight an unknown guy and picks a local named Rocky . Rocky is a bit of a washed up fighter , he can win but he does so clumsily . The trainer who I think owns the gym , Mickey , decides to help Rocky train for this fight and these two opposing forces meet in the ring for more of a fight than Apollo was expecting . This fight is a bit more realistic than the fight in two in that Apollo was not taking this fight seriously at all and was not training hard . An underdog that he had never really seen before could have taken him by surprise the way Rocky did here . So a good fight sequence a some filler before then to pull at the heart strings and inspire one . Still good though for a sports movie .
Not your typical summer camp movie .	This movie had some entertaining moments in it and it gets points for doing something different with the whole summer camp routine . Granted , this is not really a camp movie per se . The movie has a guy for some reason trying to talk these two parents into letting their son join him in his special trek through the wilderness . There is hiking , white water rafting , they will be camping out in tents , and to top it all off at the end of it all they get to do a bit of mountain climbing . Sounds fun enough , except the boy would rather go to a computer camp or something to that effect . Why the guy wants this kid who obviously does not want to endure what this trip offers so badly is beyond me , and quite frankly thanks to his convincing I am willing to bet the leader of this gang had his worst summer ever . Well I guarantee it was his worst trip ever and I feel a bit for this guy played very well by Kevin Bacon . Also , Sean Astin plays the boy who does not really want to go on this trip all that much well too . In the end rather okay movie to some extent as we watch how Astin's character and Bacon's character have their differences and also you get to see the boy try to get along with other guys during this trip . You have some humor in the movie as well as Astin has scenes where he kind of goes over certain parts of the trip as the movie is sort of a flashback . The ending is a bit over the top , but this movie never gets as extreme as that one summer camp movie where the kids take over the camp .
About what I expected .	It was rather funny , as to be expected the jokes were hit and miss with there being more hits than misses for me . I thought once again it could have been funnier and there were some unnecessary jokes , but all in all it was a rather funny flick . This one actually plays like a sequel as characters from the previous flick are explained why they aren't here rather than just being ignored all together . For this one the required viewing or basic knowledge of a movie that you need for this one is mainly " Saw " , " The Grudge " , " The Village " , " Million Dollar Baby " , and for me the best one " War of the Worlds " ( a movie that needed some fun poked at it ) . There is also something in there making a bit of fun of a movie pretty much you don't need to have seen are know all that much about . . . you will get it as long as you watch a bit of television . The " War of the Worlds " to me seems to be the main film parodied , however the other films get their fair share of the jokes as well . The opening is rather funny with Shaq and Dr . Phil doing a " Saw " recreation and there are other celebrities who make short visits as well however it is still the same group who forms the core of the cast . Worth a look see , however , if you did not care for " Scary Movie 3 " I would say you probably won't like this one .
Very strange horror movie filled with great visuals .	I would have ranked this movie higher , but its main problem is that it is a rather hard movie to follow . The plot is basically a girl finds a book called " The Three Mothers " , a book that describes three ladies living in three different parts of the world . They are dark somehow and affect the world negatively , I think . I also think the one mother mentioned , but never shown was the one that was in the movie " Suspiria " . . . I think this is a sequel to that , not sure if there is another one in this sort of witch series or not . Well the movie flashes to Rome for a bit , we briefly meet the really gorgeous mother and another cute girl is dispatched and the brother is off to New York to see his sister . Her brother is rather clueless throughout the movie as his main goal is to find his sister . He never reads the book only discovers all this stuff his sister would know and want to find by one simple clue . In the end , I am left wondering what was the goal of the sister , what was the point of stirring things up ? These plot holes would doom a lesser film , however the movie flowed rather well for a movie where I did not quite get what was going on . There were some good kills , I especially like the one involving rats . . . and here we also have a director who is not afraid to throw cats at a gal . This movie has good atmosphere too , I loved the water room and wish that was explored a bit more and the building in New York looked great too . I also enjoyed the basement of the library . All in all even though I did not exactly get everything I still thought this was a rather good horror movie .
Pretty good fantasy flick .	Considering how few really good fantasy movies there are out there , this one has to rate pretty high . It is a rather good movie that is fast paced and fun , but it does contain flaws . The main one is Warwick Davis . In some scenes he is good , but in other scenes his character comes off as a bit too whiny . The story is kind of a take off of The Lord of the Rings books . A man , small in statute , has to keep a baby safe from an evil queen who wants to sacrifice it cause it may grow up to kill her . While protecting the child Willow ( Davis ' character ) runs into a swordsman played by Val Kilmer . He does a great job playing this character and is my favorite character in the movie . Some of the effects are good , and some quite lame ( the two little guys accompanying Willow ) , but considering this was 1987 you can overlook this . The battle scenes are ok ( the one at the abandoned castle is the best ) , but they are just not on the scale of other movies of this type . This movie is worth a look though .
With the original movies of this series it is pick your sequel .	Yes , from the original movie you can pick the sequel you wish to see . Part 2 , 3 , or 4 . I liked this one the best surprisingly out of those , though I do like part 2 as well . So I pick either of those and I never wish to see part four again . Though for me the first and original is still the best overall and the two remakes are right up there in my opinion ( though I am sure most would disagree with that ) . Still slasher movies are not my favorite genre in horror , but I like all the Texas chainsaw movies except for four . The first one was the most realistic , two was so 80's and over the top , this one is more serious and more like a typical slasher and the remakes make Leatherface the star . Granted he is in the title here , however he still isn't really in this one all that much . Which is one of my complaints , if you are going to put his name in the title he needs to be more of a focal point than he is . I also could not stand the brother's acting , I could not wait for him to be killed and the ending was a bit happy happy as I wanted the one character to live , but not come back after what happened to him . So the story has a brother and sister going through Texas they run across some crazy happenings at a gas station and end up being pursued by the cannibalistic family . Leatherface is back and they even give him a brace for his leg which is a nice touch seeing as how he did slash himself in the original . He also has more family members as Leatherface went to live with his mother after the cops cracked down on his old place . The only other returning family member is gramps who is not looking to good these days . So if you watch this ignore two as it has nothing to do with this movie and when you watch two ignore this one . . . you decide which is the sequel for you . I like both of them , but I like this one's more serious tone , it lists comedy after horror here , however , there are only a few jokes this time around . You also get to see Viggo Mortenson and Ken Foree from Dawn of the Dead . So on the whole I did enjoy this movie and I think it was a worthy addition to the chainsaw movies . . . how they went from this to the mess that was four is beyond me as I thought that one was terrible with no redeeming values . I will say that part two was more bloody too as it had a very good head chop scene . . . the ratings board most have been really picky in the late 80's and early 90's as this one isn't nothing compared to the two new remakes and yet they had to tone this one down .
Although still a somewhat good trip to Silent Hill it is also disappointing .	Yes , I was excited when I found out Silent Hill would be coming to the next generation consoles and I bought it soon after its release . I have now finished it and have to say while overall I liked it , I was also a bit disappointed by it too . Let's just say I like Silent Hill 2 , 3 , and Origins more than this one . I liked it a bit more than Room and I have never played one so I can not really say if I thought it was better or worse than that game . Even though I thought it was overall better than Room , its story is not quite as good as that game either . It does boast the best graphics of the series to date , the monster look good , and the characters do too , the problem is the story is not up to par with the other Silent Hill entries I have played . Also , the combat is not as good as the last game of the series Origins , as in that one the character was a lot tougher than Alex in this game , beating enemies with his fists . Alex has the ability to dodge , but this becomes annoying as you have to dodge to hit certain enemies and if you screw up your timing you are , well screwed . The story has Alex returning to his hometown of Shepard's Glen after a dream sequence involving a hospital . He quickly discovers the town is not as he remembers as citizens are apparently going missing . He could care less though as his main goal is to find his younger brother Joshua in the town that is slowly going to hell . You meet many denizens of the town and at times are warped to a hellish world where monsters eat those who seem to have some piece of the puzzle . Of course , in the end it leads back to the town of Silent Hill . A couple of plot points just did not really work for me , the game featured members of the order like those seen in the movie , I am not sure if they appeared in the first game , but I know I never saw them in any of the other games I played . It seems this one focuses a bit on the religious cult more than previous games , but a lot of stuff presented here just did not add up . So for the best looking of the Silent Hills play this one , story wise though it is a bit weak .
Just your typical modern problems .	I liked this mild Chevy Chase comedy . It is not the best in the world , but I found it pretty funny with some scenes really taking the cake . The movie has a guy having a really bad day , but then he gets a little toxic waste thrown on him and he develops powers of telekinesis . . . and of course he does what any of us would do , he uses them for revenge . The ballet scene and restaurant scenes are the best , I do not really care for him going a bit crazy at the end , but all in all it is a funny movie . Though it does seem kind of generic in a way , almost like something that was a television rather than one shown at theaters . Chevy is good as is most of the cast and the special effects are what you would expect for a movie from this time , quite bad .
Rather good military horror movie	This movie is kind of a combination of a couple of other movies . " Dog Soldiers " , " R-Point " , and " Shock Waves " . The story has these mercenaries escorting this one guy to this area of woods in the middle of a war torn country . Once they get there , the hardest part of the job should be over , but not quite . In the middle of this field there is an underground bunker and what this man who hired the soldiers wants is apparently there . The soldiers soon are fired upon by unknown assailants and they also discover a collection of bodies , that even includes someone alive . Well they soon discover this place was a Nazi bunker and the one guy is there to find out just what the German's were experimenting with . Let's just say it was not quite what I was thinking , but then it was . There are things lurking about and they begin to kill the mercenaries , just what they are is not quite clear even after the explanation . However , it is a bit more original than the typical zombie . The movie has a couple of faults though , one the set up is a bit long . It takes a good bit for the movie to get going , though once it gets going your in for a lot of action and blood . I also was not thrilled with the ending , though that is just a minor gripe , it was not all that bad , but I was hoping for a different outcome . Other than those two things and a couple of minor points though this movie was entertaining enough to me .
Cheesy fun .	I actually like this one . I am not a big fan of the series as a whole , but for some reason this one is one of the few I like ( 4 and 6 are the other two ) . This is the movie where Jason first puts on the hockey mask he is known . Shot as a 3-D movie some parts get a bit annoying as people shove things toward the camera for no reason , but you get used to it . I would have loved to have seen this one in the theater . Is it a bit lame you ask ? Sure is , but this one is fun to watch as long as you don't take it to seriously . Some pretty good kills in this one as well . Is it a masterpiece . . . most definitely not ! Not every movie though is out to be a masterpiece and you can't judge movies the same . I love the part with the eyes .
Rather good except in some ways it makes no sense .	I figured I knew the ending to this one before I watched it , but as I watched it I figured I might be wrong . In fact , I was not sure where the movie was going and that was one of its best aspects . Then in the end what I figured before I watched it comes to be , but it doesn't make much sense to me in some ways . This one has a girl who is the sole survivor of an awful car crash . She makes it through and ends up getting a job in some church in Utah . She goes there and strange things start to happen as she is stalked by this strange man , though is he really there at all or maybe he is a ghost . She also is seemingly drawn to this closed down carnival . Things go okay at first , but then she has episodes where people seem not to be able to hear or see her . She gets fired from the church and everything seems to lead back to the carnival , but then the ending comes and you are left wondering what the carnival really had to do with anything . Also why did the strange man and the others have such hostility to the girl ? She was not aware of what was going on . On the whole though , I found this movie to be rather entertaining . The scene where the people come out of the water and start chasing the girl are very well done and surprisingly chilling and effective . I just wish I could get what happened .
Rather good adventure / horror movie that takes place on a boat .	I enjoyed this film about a cruise ship that runs into a rather unusual problem in the middle of the ocean . What is the problem ? Well it is not really the strange assortment of people heading to said cruise ship to rob it . We have two guys and a gal who own this strange super fast little ship , they take any job as long as there is money to be made . The amusing threesome would also seem to make a cute little sitcom entitled " Two guys , a gal and a boat " . They are transporting these men who are planning to rob the ship which really makes the guy who owns the boat rethink his no questions asked policy . On the ship another thief is found in the former Bond bad girl Famke Jannsen , she is caught and locked up which actually turns out to work really good for her as soon after something seems to hit the ship and make it stop . Soon thereafter the people in the super little boat arrive to find that the ship they set out to get to is now almost completely deserted , the ones left providing very little information as to what happened . That is okay though as people start disappearing and our heroes and villains alike will find out the deadly killer of the ship is more than any of them could have imagined . Good movie , very fast paced and lots of action and a bit of horror too . It also has quite a bit of humor too which works well as the cast is actually pretty good . This movie would actually open up during " Titanic's " super run of consecutive weeks as box office champ and would be just a minor blip on the radar . Shame , I found this movie to be really good considering it is not pure horror , a comic book movie , or a sequel as these days those are the only movies that seem to do anything .
Not an entirely satisfying experience I was expecting more considering it was made by the same team as Chrono Trigger .	This game is a rather good rpg for the xbox 360 , a system that is not exactly heavy on this genre . Then again , what does one expect considering rpg's are more popular in Japan and the xbox 360 is an American video game system . Made by those responsible for the innovative Chrono Trigger , this game boasts great graphics , a pretty good storyline , and a likable group of characters . It is , however , not all that innovative . A standard rpg for the most part , which would usually be fine with me except for two flaws . One , the character's attacks come in the form of shadow creatures that stand behind our character's . While our character's have unique personalities and are full of life during cut scenes and such , during battle they might as well all do the same thing , because they all can do the same things if you wished and they all wear the same armor . There is just not enough uniqueness about them in combat . The only thing they do different is a special attack not acquired till nearly the end of the game . They also do the same battle dance wrap up every time as well . Second , the fighting tends to be a bit annoying at times . No random battles , but at times there are so many enemies present you would prefer it . You may be able to flee one , but another will get you . Near the end this was especially annoying as I just wanted to win the game and they kept flinging enemies in my path . By this point I was slaughtering them , but the fights here still take a long time even if you are super strong . Still , it was a fun little game . . . the story , a boy named Shu and his friend's Jiro and Kluke hatch a plan to stop a creature known as the land shark from terrorizing their village . They end up on board a huge ship in the sky where they meet the evil Nene and are imbued by a strange power that allows their shadows to take the form of massive beasts that fight for them . They are later joined by two others as they journey to stop Nene from his rather bizarre plans . A couple of surprises near the end too . The music is sometimes just okay , but then at other times it really stands out . The voice work is good too , though the one character was a bit annoying at times , and if you have played it you know which one . A few tweaks here and there and this good game could have been great , but I still prefer " Enchanted Arms " to this one as I liked the fighting better there and while I prefer story to fighting in an rgp when you do have to fight as much as you did in this one it can detract from the game . Also , the final boss is a pain . . . just make sure you save as instructed by the game , otherwise there is a possibility of having to start entirely over . Thankfully , I pulled out a win and got lucky .
Don't let the title fool you . . . the story does end .	All in all when I saw this one as a kid it was rather good . Not the best movie ever , but a fine film nonetheless . I was disappointed with the movie when I first saw it , but learned to enjoy it quite a bit . One thing that surprises me is that it was a foreign film . I never knew this , though that explains why it is kind of a strange movie . Not that I am insulting it , it is just it moves differently and looks differently than most movies in the U . S . The story is about a boy who wanders into a bookstore ( I won't go into the details to greatly ) and finds a book titled " The Neverending Story " . The guy who owns the shop does everything , it seems , in his power to get the kid curious about the book , but then says he can't read it . So the boy borrows it when the storeowner isn't looking . He begins reading it and the scenes cut to what he is reading kind of like " The Princess Bride " . It seems in this fantasyland some force known simply as " the nothing " is destroying their world . A boy is sent to save the world and must traverse many obstacles along the way . All the while in the real world where the boy is reading this story things get strange , as the book almost seems to be real . Interesting story , the reason I was disappointed as a kid is that I thought the boy reading the book would be trapped in the fantasy world , but he isn't . All in all though it is a rather good tale and interesting story as there really is no villain aside from a wolf creature trailing the boy who was sent to stop the nothing . Sequels were made , but the second one , which is the only one I have seen , is awful .
Strange movie .	I like this movie , but it is kind of strange . What I like most is that it is one of those movies about a town where strange things occur . I love those types of movies . Here graves are being robbed and all this other weird stuff is happening and a group of guys investigate this undertaker known as " The Tall Man " . Investigating him , they run into many strange happenings as well as supernatural stuff and science fiction stuff as well . This is the best of the series for me . The later editions just try to explain too much . . . I always thought it was best to leave it unexplained and mysterious . This movie definitely is both of those things . . . though the plot is a little hard to follow at times .
I enjoyed it for what it was , but not as good as the first .	This movie was all right , kept me entertained for the most part , but it needed more and less . The story is a bit better this time in parts , but it is also worse in others . I was kind of hoping I would hate this movie as most critics and people seem to , but I enjoyed it so now I suppose I will get private messages from people saying I should hate the movie . Well don't bother writing me please . The movie starts out with a cool underwater temple scene , and this is the highlight of the movie . It is also the only part in the movie that feels like the tomb raider video game . The rest of the movie has some good stuff , but it doesn't feel like tomb raider , more like a spy movie or something . At one point there is a scene with monsters that look like they belong in the Lord of the Ring movies . For what it was worth it was ok , but these monsters were kind of out of place . At least the stone warriors from the first movie have actually appeared in the game . I would also love to see Lara go into an actual tomb for once . Sure the underwater temple was cool , but it was just one room . Like the first one all the tombs here are usually one room . Can't they have here go through a really long tomb with multiple traps and stuff for her to shoot at ? Also , I wish she would have used her guns more . I shoot more in five minutes of the video game than she does in this entire movie , and she always loses her weapons too . Not that I don't want to see character development and stuff , but this is a movie based on a game , it should be a bit more action packed than what we get . All in all though it was okay , I enjoyed it , but it just wasn't as good as the first for me .
Simon Pegg runs away with the show here , though the rest of the cast is good too .	This movie is rather funny , not up there with " Shaun of Dead " or " Hot Fuzz " , but still once again Simon Pegg does a great job and makes you sympathize with his character . Thandie Newton is rather good too as is Hank Azaria . . . though my favorite costar was Moran as the rather laid back and a bit strange cousin to Newton's character . What is the story ? Man makes a run for it on his wedding day and leaves his pregnant wife behind at the alter . Flash to five years later and our runaway husband to be is now an out of shape security guard for a women's apparel store . He still is in his ex fiancé's life as he does try to do stuff with his son , but there is now a new man in her life in the form of what initially seems to be a really nice and well off man . Let's just say he changes throughout the course of the film and he begins to get a bit more obnoxious as the movie precedes along . Well Dennis ( Pegg's character ) decides to show his ex that he has what it takes to change by agreeing to run in a marathon . A twenty-six mile marathon that is only three weeks away and yes our hero is not in the best of shape . Thanks , however , to a bet made by his ex's cousin and a landlord who seems a tad off , but seems to really like Dennis , he is trained very hard to reach his goal . Let's just say there are some very funny scenes that ensue during the training . The marathon itself while not the highlight of the film is good too . A few serious scenes damper the mood a bit here and there , but for the most part it is a rather funny film and I rather like the London setting too .
Made me afraid of surgery .	Yes , this movie most definitely had a negative impact on my life as it made me very scared of going under the knife . In which case it makes this movie a very effective movie as well . Also , it seems to be the first movie with the title of Coma made in a rather long list of them here at the internet movie database . The movie is about a hospital where there is something amiss . Seems a good number of the patients are going into comas after surgery and most of them are seemingly patients that are in relatively good health for the most part . One young lady doctor suspects something is wrong and she works to uncover the truth . You also have Michael Douglas who does not really believe her when she starts to find things out . All in all a rather good mystery thriller type movie written by the guy who did Jurassic Park and other science fiction type novels . It is entertaining for the most part , but it also has a few slow stretches of film as well . However , I can not deny that when I had a surgery years after I had seen this movie this movie came to mind when I was going under .
I enjoyed this film more than the original .	It did not exactly take long for this film to be made after the original as it came out the very next year . While the first one was okay , I still prefer this one a bit more . Do not ask me why as I can see from the score it is not an opinion shared by most people . Still , this one starts with a bang in the form of a very funny cliffhanger spoof type scene . It then has a man going to a temple to try and lure Ace out of exile to help retrieve a rare white bat . They are soon off to Africa where hilarity ensues . Granted , once again at times Jim Carrey's performance is a bit over the top for my tastes it is still funny watching him try to fight a native warrior , escape a mechanical rhino , and punch out the monopoly man . The movie moves fast and is over before you know it as it to has a rather good ending . I am surprised that there has not been another sequel to this franchise in the past years , but there seems to be something coming out next year . Hopefully , it will be another improvement over the first two as they were funny , but at times to over the top .
Somewhat different ghost tale .	Not that it is all that original , mind you . Watching it brought to mind for me a movie called " Devil Doll " . Granted it is much better than that flick and it has a supernatural tone that I rather like as well . The main problem I had with the film is the whole innocent man gets wrongly accused aspect of the film . However , near the end this disappears so I was able to enjoy the film more . The story , man's wife is murdered , signs point to an old poem told to children in the man's home town , man investigates only to find something horrifying awaiting him . Yes , the movie is a bit of a ghost story with a twist and for the most part it works rather well . The sets are pretty good here , especially the lake theater set which reminded me of something from Silent Hill . The story moves at a fairly brisk pace , and even though I basically figured out one part of the ending I was a bit surprised at the whole end . The murders though are all basically the same every time so there really is nothing new to see each time a person dies . Still there is enough going on to keep one on their toes . The police officer character was a bit annoying at first too , but he grew on me after awhile . So what should one expect from said movie ? A lot of ventriloquist dolls , tongues , and a rather disturbing ending .
Rather good , bloody vampire movie . . . though not without its flaws .	For the most part I enjoyed this movie , however , I thought it could have been better too . The story has a the town of Barrow , Alaska about to go into its yearly ritual of 30 days of night . A time when the sun doesn't come . However , this year things are going to be particularly bad as a group of vampires are coming to town for a thirty day feeding frenzy . Let's just say that they do not take to long making their presence known as they begin slaughtering the citizens soon after sundown . I was thinking at this point they should be thinking about pacing themselves because unlike the real Barrow , Alaska where I think there are quite a few people this one is limited to like 150 people during the dark month . Soon we are left with the sheriff and a few survivors doing what they can to avoid being on the menu . Lot's of blood as to be expected and for the most part it is pretty good . Still , in places the camera work and editing make the movie seem rather choppy and I had a rather hard time telling what was going on . The vampires were not distinct enough for me and for some reason spoke in a foreign language which I found rather unnecessary . Also , I doubt if anyone else thought this , but I kept thinking the way the movie was setup was a bit familiar . It reminded me of the Australian or New Zealand zombie flick " The Undead " . I mean we have the initial stage of chaos , survivors finding rather good shelter ( here in an attic , in that movie a fallout shelter ) , a town isolated , and even a scene in a local store where our troops gather supplies and run across another creature . Of course , that movie was funny while this one is almost completely devoid of humor . Still though , it is a nice little horror movie with a great concept . . . just needed a little work here and there .
And Apollo said he did not want a rematch .	Of course , I find it understandable that he wanted one and he had the quick turn around from the first movie . As soon as that fight was over the media started hounding him and he knew the only way to exorcise the demons as it were was to destroy Rocky in the ring . So basically , we have Rocky getting endorsement deals and some cash from the fight in the last movie not really wanting to fight again as Apollo did a real number on one of his eyes that he is almost blind in it . Unfortunately , Rocky is not to good with commercials and the money starts to run out quickly . Take also into account that Adrien is pregnant , however she is opposed to him getting into the ring as well . Well this and that happens and Rocky agrees to the rematch and Mickey is once again training the Italian Stallion . Mickey also has a strategy , to protect the bad eye from further damage and to throw Apollo off his game he is going to make Rocky fight right handed , then when the timing is right let him revert back to being left handed to really throw Apollo . More stuff happens including the birth of Rocky's son and a close call with Adrien and then the fight is on . The fight is not quite as realistic as the first one as this time Apollo was prepared and he was the heavy weight champion of the world . He really should have leveled Rocky . . . however , that would not have made good cinema and the ending was pretty tense there for a bit .
Not as good as the first one , still it had enough gore , violence and nudity to keep one entertained .	Yes , this movie is not quite up to par with the first one . My first complaint has to do with the way the characters were introduced . They replaced the whole words on the screen with a kind of video introduction that just is not as good as the " Animal House " type description of characters . The character's this time are not quite as appealing as the first either . I really liked the guy considered the jerk in the first movie and all the characters who had a large role were good . I really missed Rollins in this one , though I realize they could not really bring him back . Granted I did like that Clu was back as was Honey , and I rather liked the midget wrestler's too . Nobody else though was really all that special as the biker chick was a bit to serious for this movie . The story in this one is just a sort of a continuation of the first movie . Apparently , the monsters that attacked the bar were not alone as another group were attacking a small town at about the same time . We our introduced to some new characters and a biker chick who was the sister of the girl blown up in the first . She is out to get our hero from the last movie , last seen driving away in his car . The one gal is back in this film who left the people in the bar for dead too , granted it looks like the main reason she was brought back was so she could be tortured . So what can you expect from this movie . Lots of gore and kills that is to be sure . A monster autopsy that goes beyond the yuck factor , you just will shake your head at parts of that . A less than spectacular baby rescue . A rather stupid attempt at a catapult for flinging little people , though grandma gets to go first and lots of monsters tearing through the city and doing it with cats . Still , feels like a movie that is direct to video and has a cheapness about it the first movie did not . The ending to was a bit disappointing as it seemed right out of the very bad " Automaton Transfusion " .
The Thousand Year door was better .	This game was an okay game , not quite up to par with the previous paper mario game . The game is still a bit of an rpg , but not so much as Door was . The fighting is basically like the old Mario games with tougher enemies and for the most part it is a side scroller except for Mario's ability to flip to a 3d screen . This reveal items and hidden paths . You also get the ability to use Bowser , Peach and even Luigi . Bowser was my favorite as he was by far the strongest . The story , Peach and Bowser start the game at their wedding and this wild wedding causes a rip in space that will lead to the destruction of all worlds , the evil doer though is not Bowser , but instead a man named Lord Blech . Like the previous installment you are collecting an object , though instead of stars this time it is hearts . You have your basic world , a haunted type house world , a space world and various others . Though my favorite was the one with the nerdy chameleon . The game is fun for the most part , but I prefer the turned based battles to the real time action as it took more strategy , it was really no problem to destroy the final boss here . Also , this one features a main town hub , but unlike Rougeport this one is a bit of a pain to traverse and explore thanks to numerous elevators and such . The flipping part is also a bit of a pain as your always afraid you should flip cause you might miss something . So be prepared for a somewhat fun game that at times is a tad annoying , however it does have a rather good ending .
Loved the character of Dante , just certain aspects of the game I did not like .	I liked how the story started out , and I liked the character of Dante right away . A dude with a big sword and dual guns , what isn't there to like ? The fighting was rather fast and furious too , so what exactly are my complaints exactly ? Well I did not care for the setting for one thing . The game starts out in a regular city , in a back alley and almost immediately shifts to an old castle . I don't know , Dante fit the city better , I would have enjoyed fighting in a more urban environment instead of the old Gothic one . Then there are the enemy characters . . . they are not all that different from one another . You have maybe four or five types you fight throughout the game and then the bosses . I need a bit more variety to be honest . Then there are the pointless underwater scenes I did not care for either . The game is also hard , so hard I had to play on easy which was to easy . Still , the game was fun as controlling Dante was fun and the fighting fun . I loved getting the grenade launcher late in the game . The story was okay , like I said I would have rather used this character in the city , granted there it would have been a bit like " Constantine " , but hey that would be good in my book . So it is a good enough challenge and rather fun , I just hope the sequels are better .
Good action here and there , but it lags here and there also .	A pretty good follow up to the smash hit " Die Hard " this one actually made a lot more money at the box office . Still , it is not as good as the first movie as the action here is good , but this one has to many boring stretches and needless plot points and a bit to much this and that to even compete with the much more thrilling and tension building original . This one has actual terrorist taking over an airport threatening to take down the planes if their demands are not met . How does our hero McClane fit in ? Well it just so happens his wife is on board one of the flights forced to circle the airport while running dangerously low on fuel . So what do we get , short shots of action that is good and a lot of filler in between . Don't get me wrong , there are some great scenes such as the grenades in the airplane , but this Die Hard just seemed to run a bit too long while the first and third movies seemed to cruise along at a very brisk pace . The villain in this one is not as good as Rickman was in the first one , or Irons was in the third and the whole concept of McClane being in the wrong place at the wrong time seems very unlikely to happen . Granted it is just a movie and for the most part it is enjoyable .
Not quite on par with the first one , but I rather liked it .	Yes the first one was a bit better , but I liked this sequel . The story is nothing new as there are some critter eggs to be found , and apparently get mixed up with some easter eggs so you get killer easter eggs and a scene of the easter bunny being eaten . . . yikes ! ! ! Then again easter is used so infrequently as a backdrop for a movie so this is a nice little inclusion . The bounty hunters from the first one are on their way back along with Charlie who I have no clue why he is now with the bounty hunters . Follows the same pattern as the first one though on a bit of a larger scale as there are a lot more critters now than in the first one . I do enjoy the one bounty hunter turning into a centerfold model , and there are also many deaths to enjoy as well . The highlight though comes at the end of the movie as the remaining critters gather together and form one lethal ball of fuzz . This is far from being a masterpiece of horror , still it has some good kills some humor and it goes by rather quickly .
Industrial robots on the rampage .	Yes , called Mega Man in the United States this game would be the first of many titles in this series . Though I wonder why it is called Rockman in Japan , is it because they equate him to a rock somehow or is he rocking cool ? Anyways in this game the evil Dr . Wiley has turned his robots evil , robots that were initially used for various construction and such type jobs . You have one who uses fire , a cold one , an electrical one , a bomb expert , one who cuts , and a strong one . As the title character you must progress through these characters deadly levels and defeat each one and gain their powers so that you can infiltrate Dr . Wiley's stronghold and go toe to toe with the evil creator himself . The game was rather fun for its time , though I found a few levels especially annoying , the first time I played it I especially had difficulty facing the first boss in Dr . Wiley's place . A creature that flies into the room a part and you must dodge each part or suffer damage and then when totally together you can shoot him once and he does it again . Granted , on subsequent playings I did not have all that much trouble against him . You also have another headache in this game common in many games of this era , the pit with no end . You know , the bottom of the screen has no floor , you fall in , and you instantly die . It is fun trying to figure out what villains powers can work against the others effectively and for the most part this game is a fun game , though part II is more fun . . . granted the enemy robots would start getting a tad strange as the series goes on , like Pharaoh man .
Gene Hackman . . . movie bookend .	I liked this one better than the first one even though the first was better done for the most part . The reason . . . Superman actually got to fight some villians . In fact it was one of the best battles in a comic book movie between the hero and the supervillins for a long time . Lord knows Batman never really had a great fight with any of his supervillins . In fact until the fight between Blade and Deacon Frost this one was in a class by itself . Other parts of this movie though aren't so good . The whole Louise finding out who Superman is was a bit overdone and to soon . It didn't seem like much time had passed since the last one and already she was finding out . Christopher Reeve was once again a weak point except when he was outside the window and challenged General Zod to a fight . And what was the point of Gene Hackman even being in this movie ? He gets top billing , but he is in the movie 35 to 40 minutes if that much . He is there maybe 10 minutes at the beginning , then 20 or so minutes at the end with no real point for being there . They also seem to ignore the fact Brando was even in the first one . . . I am guessing he didn't want anything to do with this one . All in all the fight in Metropolis makes this one worth a look , but these Superman films always seem to have major flaws .
Jason returns and really piles up the bodies .	This is one of my favorite Friday the 13th movies to watch . This is probably because it has the most killings of any of the franchise . In fact the first time I saw this one as a kid I made a joke that this one needed a counter to show every time someone was killed , like in the horror spoof " Student Bodies " . Tommy , who apparently killed Jason in 4 , digs up Jason in an attempt to cremate his remains . Let me say that it is best to ignore part 5 where it is mentioned that Jason has in fact already been cremated , best to just pretend 5 doesn't exist for the most part . Lightening somehow revives Jason , and before Tommy can set him on fire it starts to rain . . . Darn ! Jason proceeds to mow down anybody he comes into contact with , and Tommy gets thrown in jail because no one believes his story of a walking corpse on a killing spree . Is this a great movie . . . no , but it is rather fun to watch if not taken too seriously .
Starts out promisingly enough , but the middle is a little slow , the ending though makes up for the flat middle .	This movie could have been better , could have been worse . Saw it at Wal-Mart so I thought I would take a chance on it . Kind of your basic Japanese horror , better made than say Ju-rei , but not quite as much horror in it , nothing compared to Ringu or Ju-on of the Japanese horror movies I have seen so far . The movie starts out showing a family coming home from a vacation . Tragedy ensues . . . a tragedy that was predicted beforehand by a mysterious paper . The father sees this paper right before something bad happens . Then the movie flashes forward three years and it sort of doesn't make sense . This " newspaper of terror " is mentioned , but it seems more like a movie about clairvoyance . The paper is never explained either , what it means or what supernatural event is behind it , I mean I don't want everything handed to me on a silver platter , but this movie just went everywhere for a while . Mysterious guys locked up in loony bins writing predictions on walls , guys who change the predictions but get really bad welts . Then the movie goes into the stirring conclusion that is pretty good , cause you don't know when the end will be . In the end this is a somewhat interesting movie with a rather sad tone to it .
Rather good bloody action , however lots of dead scenes as well .	This movie was pretty good for the most part . Nice visuals and great action here and there . With that came a few pointless scenes ( the strange dream sequences ) and a conclusion that could have used a bit more sword fighting . The story , vikings have come to North America with seemingly no other purpose than to kill . What can stop them ? Well looks like a storm took some out killing everybody on board a viking vessel leaving only a boy alive . He is taken into the care of the Indians . Well guess what ? The vikings return and to their surprise one of the natives can take up a sword and slice and dice them . So what are you in store for , lots of head chopping and blood spurting . Unfortunately , at a certain point in the movie it gets a bit tiresome as the hero leads said vikings here and there trying to take out their numbers using nature . Not that it is all bad , but these scenes are a bit overlong and protracted . I preferred him hacking away with his sword . Still , it passed the time nicely and there were some great scenery shots too . The mountain looks particularly good . It probably helped that I watched this movie on blu-ray too , as this made the scenery shots really stand out . So despite its flaws and lack of any stars , for the most part this movie was entertaining and passed the time rather nicely .
Kind of a " B " horror movie throwback .	This movie works rather well . I could have used a little more , but for what it was it was good . Certainly better than most of the stories they showed on the television show . This one is about a man who is being pursued by another mysterious man . The mysterious man wants something from the other guy , a strange crucifix . They end up at a hotel where we find out that the mysterious man is in fact a demon ( hence the title ) played very well by Billy Zane . He ends up growing more demons and they begin to prey on the people who are trapped inside the hotel . This movie is very good and very quick moving , but I think it should have moved a bit slower as the killings come a bit too rapidly and to many are killed off too soon . Still though this one has some elements I like , such as the trapped in a house device . I also like that it uses minimal locations and scenery it really does have a " B " movie feel to it . This was also the last time I have seen Thomas Haden Church in anything since his days on the television show " Wings " . Though not a super great horror movie , this one is still worth checking out . . . it also has some good death scenes in it .
It started out really interesting , but then got to science fiction for my tastes .	This game started out with a bang , your character goes to an opera and all hell breaks loose . The singer in the opera transforms into a bizarre creature and you go in hot pursuit . What transpires is a game where you are in constant search for this lady named eve , while fighting the many deformed monsters she leaves in her wake including mutant alligators , dogs , and even skeletal remains of dinosaurs . At first the game is more horror based , but then it gets all science fiction as the game explains a bit to much why everything is happening . So the story starts off good , but then gets a bit to weak near the end . The fighting consists of you shooting monsters with various guns that all have their advantages and disadvantages . You also can customize your weapons and the various body armor throughout the game . You can interact with people here and there , but this one is more fighting and movie sequences than anything else . The movie sequences are the highlight of this one too as they are much better than the actual game play which is not unusual because the film sequences on a psone are going to be better than the actual graphics .
Mad Max at sea .	This movie plays a lot like a Mad Max movie . Only in this one the future world is entirely covered in water . Though I liked The Road Warrior more , this one was pretty good . I always like movies at sea , and you get that here . The story has this man who has gills going into a port to trade some goods . While there it is discovered he has gills so they try to get him and do . They plan on killing him . Fortunately , a gang who smokes and uses gas powered vehicles attacks and a woman and girl free the gill man ( Costner ) and they get away . There is apparently a map on the girls back that gives directions to dry land and the rest of the film is them trying to find it and trying to rescue the girl who gets captured by the gang . Not the best flick in the world , but it does have some memorable sets and a lot of water . Though I highly doubt that if the polar ice caps melted the entire world except on piece would be covered in water .
I actually like this one .	No matter how bad a movie may be to most people someone is going to like it , and I like this one . Not the greatest film ever made by a long shot , for me it has a certain charm to it . I think Chuck Norris and Louis Gossett Jr both do great jobs and work well and complement each other . The story has them going after a bunch of gold . Along the way they run into many obstacles . This movie for me has a nice combination of action and humor , and it is definitely more fun if you don't take it too seriously . Despite the fact it is rated so low though I saw it is worth a look . . . but you may want to read the other reviews here first .
Not a great movie , but still a somewhat good sci-fi flick .	Here , as in the case with another 2004 release " Van Helsing " , we have a movie that has good action , but kind of a jumbled plot . In fact , this one makes " Van Helsing's " plot seem a bit better . Still though it was worth it to see a science fiction action movie that does not have Star Wars in the title . Without Vin Diesel though this one would have been even weaker . Another movie where it is turn off your brain and enjoy the special effects and the action . One of my problems is the villains in this one . They really should have gotten somebody famous to play the lead villain . Instead , they waste money getting Dame Judi Dench to play a rather pointless character . They also do not spend enough time developing the main villain , instead choosing to waste time on these other two characters plotting against the main villain . Then there is the character that comes out of nowhere with shocking news . Still though it was enjoyable enough and it was in fact a sequel to " Pitch Black " not a prequel . If you like seeing some good fights and stuff blowing up then this is a good flick . If you are expecting some great story then I would suggest you watch something else .
This Blade just is not very sharp .	Not that it was bad , overall I thought it was enjoyable enough . . . however , this Blade was just not in the same league as the previous two movies . Let's start out with the fact that the movie had almost a television show quality to it . It just did not look as sleek as Blade and certainly not as sleek as Blade II . The sets and everything mostly looked like regular street corners and warehouses . The lighting was not of the caliber as the other two movies either . It also had a rather weak plot . . . granted the second movie did not have the strongest plot either , but it was still better than this . Then there is the final showdown between Blade and Dracula , the fight is rather anticlimactic . I was expecting one heck of a fight instead it was just an okay final showdown , no where near as good as the other final fights in the Blade series . You would just expect that this super showdown would be done in a way to top Blade's fight with Deacon Frost or the super Reaper . There is also what happens to Whistler , lets just say considering his importance to the other movies here he is taken out of the picture with little fanfare . Not that this movie was all bad , I did give it a seven ( I gave a ten to the other two ) , I liked the action scenes it was great just seeing Blade do his thing . I also enjoyed the addition of Ryan Reynolds to the cast as he added some very humorous dialog . This movie was also action packed so you at least were not bored . It just needed more time or something . A better script maybe could also have helped this movie . Then maybe we wouldn't have characters that seemed important to the plot just disappear and other characters that seemed unimportant become the focal points of important plot points .
A rather funny zombie spoof splatter movie .	In the same vein as " Dead Alive " and " Shaun of the Dead " comes a little film from down under " Undead " . A zombie movie with a few twists here and there that makes it a bit more original than other zombie flicks and is very comedic as well . Set in a small town pelted with meteors people start becoming zombies and attacking . A group of plucky survivors makes it to the house of a man ready for the attack , a man who is very good at handling weapons . They hold up in a house and the zombies are lurking outside . . . sounds like the same old stuff , but wait there's more . A mysterious rain that burns clothes , a light that seemingly picks up living creatures , and a wall at the edge of town . This makes up the more original part of the film . For the most part it plays like a comedy , unfortunately it has the same short coming all the other comedy zombie movies seem to have in that it goes through stretches of being a bit to serious . These periods just do not seem to belong in a movie with zombie fish and a guy that pulls a couple of guns out of seemingly nowhere after having been completely naked the scene before . Still it is a pretty good comedy zombie movie and the effects are rather good and gruesome as well .
Less about characters . . . more about chomping .	This movie isn't as well acted as the first , but it has a bit more of the shark attacking and action . It isn't as good , but it is still a rather fun movie , though it is partly responsible for the let's add teenagers to every horror movie mentality . Roy Shieder returns as do a couple other characters though I do believe Michael grew up a bit to fast as he now appears about 16 or 17 when in the last one he looked maybe 10 or 11 . There may be another shark and the sheriff is the only one who believes there is . Though this is kind of annoying as people should be more willing to listen and worry less about the tourist season this time around . His sons go boating against his will and this leads to numerous shark attacks on a bunch of the kids who just had to boat for some reason . Not as good as the first , but it is still a good movie and I love the conclusion .
Wow , Kraven was in this one a lot wasn't he ?	Yes , this one sort of picks up where the last movie left off . I would say it left off exactly , but there is one little problem . How the heck did we end up in Russia ? Apparently , the mansion at the end of the previous movie was in Russia the entire time , even though the one guy who was in America walked to the front gate . Aside from this minor oops , we have a pretty good , but not quite as good as the original . The action is good , and the gore is bloody , the problem a lot of shots where they just keep building up tension for the fight . They slowly ease up on the situation , before finally there is some action . The story is not quite up to par either as the lycans or werewolves are virtually absent through much of the film and not really a factor in the plot much at all . Still there are a couple of rather revelations here and there that we learn and things from the previous movie explained . We also get nudity in this one , however , I found this a bit unnecessary . Still though you get some head rippings , some good gore , and a couple of really cool fights . All good , just not up to the first movie .
Loved this one when I was a kid .	As a kid I saw this one at the theater and I loved it . Not as good now , but it still holds up ok . This movie has a bunch of Greek mythology and a lot of stop motion animation . I am not the biggest fan of this technique , but when Ray Harryhausen is involved it is usually rather good . . . he is the best . This movie has it all swordfights , monsters , and mechanical owls . The story follows our hero as he tries to save the princess from first this monster guy , then the deadly Kraken a giant beast . Medusa , Cerberus , and the three blind witches are in this one too . This one is a really good movie to show your kids that is enjoyable to adults as well .
For the most part good , but the ending was unrealistic .	This movie is about a guy that is in love with a gal and decides to impress her by standing outside her house until she decides to give him a chance . This leads to him observing different aspects of the neighborhood and it does lead to him and the girl talking more . His friend , unfortunately , ends up feeling neglected because this is their last summer together and his friend is just standing on a lawn . He even watches kids to pass the time . For the most part this movie was pretty funny and there were some interesting characters to watch . The main problem I had with the movie was the ending . Spoilers aheadThe ending to me just played out a bit to happily . In the end it wasn't very realistic as the girl nine usually never goes with the guy that really cares about them , but rather the dumb jerk , especially at that age . . . so a better ending might be the guy finding a gal that was more in tune with him .
Would set the tone for most summer camp movies to follow .	I liked this movie for the most part , but have to say had there been anyone else besides Bill Murray in the lead role it would not have been as good . He brings an energy to the role that steps this film up a notch than it would have been otherwise . I mainly enjoyed the pranks pulled on the one counselor and there are other humorous things in this movie too such as the hot dog eating contest . This movie would also set the stage for summer camp movies with the competition at the end . Nearly every camp movie has either this or the unruly or troubled kids plot , or a combination of both . This series also would take a rather strange shift in tone as this one and two are both family friendly movies while part three and four are more adult oriented , more like the old teen sex comedies of the time . It kind of did the opposite of the Police Academy movies that went from R to PG-13 to PG movies . This series goes from the opposite to R . Still this first one and only good one is worth some chuckles largely due to Bill Murray .
A rather good action adventure , but it just does not have the feel of previous Indiana movies .	Let me just start by saying , I liked this one a tad more than Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom . However , both Last Crusade and Raiders were better films than this one . Indiana is back and while looking a bit old , Harrison Ford is still able to bring the character to life . Shia is good as is most of the cast . The story has the Russians going after artifacts they believe will help their military . Let's just say mind control type stuff is what they are going for . Well they enlist an unwilling Indy to try and find something in a warehouse and after a rather good action scene Indy is back at college where he is promptly let go on leave because of the communist scare at the time . More action ensues as Indy meets a guy named Mutt who need's Indy's help to help his mom and a common professor they both know . More traveling ensues and a bit more action at a strange church or graveyard , then Indy and Mutt are reunited with his mom who turns out to be an old friend of Indy . So more action as there are chases galore and some really big ants , a couple of drops , and the climax in the kingdom of the crystal skull . So it is a fast paced movie which is good , but it just does not feel quite right . This feels like a movie that Indiana Jones just happens to be in rather than it being an Indiana Jones movie . Some of the action was a bit over the top , as anyone who watches a nature documentary knows ants don't go after people like that . It does have more of a 50's feel as they have the communist scare stuff going on , and this one pays a bit of homage to the science fiction films too , and those parts of the movie made it a bit more generic than an Indy movie should be as well . So the final verdict , it was not great , but it was a nice way to spend two hours time . Just do not go in expected to be blown away .
More enjoyable than Reloaded , but still not the original .	Let me start off by saying I didn't like Reloaded all that much . In fact , other than a couple of scenes I didn't like it much at all . This one , however , I found to be very enjoyable . I was looking for a couple of hours of diversion and I got it . This one picks up where the last left off ; thank goodness there was no recap . Neo is in a comatose state and the machines are close to Zion . What ensues after a somewhat slow start is a great battle and one heck of a finishing fight . Not as many speeches in this one , and thank God there was no rave scene or anything like that in this one . Morpheus kind of takes a back seat in this one and that helps as he has less time to make dramatic speeches , actually Neo isn't in a lot of this one either . Still it works cause the battle between the squid robots and the people is really cool . The humans use these cool machines that are reminiscent of the loaders in the movie " Aliens " except they have guns . Agent Smith is also back and he is close to taking over not only the matrix , but also all of the machines . This sets up an incredible fight that reminds me of a fight in the anime DragonBall Z . In fact this movie makes me excited about that movie , cause I can see they can do fighting right in that one . It also makes me excited about Spiderman 2 as those tentacles on the squid robot look like his arms would . And those machines the humans were using make me look forward to the Transformers live action movie . Are all the questions answered ? No , but some of those questions should have never been brought up in Reloaded to begin with cause they were only used to try to make it seem more complicated than it was . This movie was simply more of an action movie , which is probably why it turned some off , but I liked it . I gave Reloaded a 4 , but I give this one a 7 , it is not without its flaws , but overall this one did not disappoint me .
Not the original , but still a lot of fun .	This time there isn't quite the cast used in the first one , in fact there are really only four main characters this time around . There also is not all that many kills , but still I enjoyed this one . It is one of those rare direct to video releases that is actually quite good . Fred Ward does return again , as does Michael Gross and they both are still very strong . This one has the infamous Graboids attacking some place down in Mexico I believe . Fred Ward's character is asked to come and help rid the area of these creatures as he has the knowledge to fight them and kill them . Well it proves to be to much of a challenge as there are a lot more of them than he anticipated so he enlists the aid of Gross's character . Well everything seems to be going down without a hitch , but something is not quite right . One of the monsters seems to have exploded from the inside and there seems to be another monster loose in the desert . Not the original as I have said , but it still works . Though I never saw part three cause it looks rather bad .
A bit of a wimpy title for a killer shark movie .	This is a shark movie that is actually more Alien than it is Jaws . Don't get me wrong , it was a pretty good movie as long as you didn't take it to seriously , but I would have preferred more attacks in the open sea . What we get are most of the attacks happening in a research facility . Scientist are experimenting on sharks , looking for a cure to Alzheimer's , the sharks that are super intelligent strike back . The facility is basically floating , and the sharks bust a window and the facility starts to flood and then starts to sink and the sharks get in . Some good shark attacks follow . . . and you get to hear a very great speech by Samuel L . Jackson that is really inspiring . Of course , if you have seen the movie you know what I am talking about . In the end this isn't the type of movie you watch for the great acting , but for the wild action and shark attacks . In this one we get I think it was three sharks , two rather little ones and one big one . I loved Jaws so I had to go to this one , but it reminded me more of Alien they way they were in the facility , but you do get one shark attack on some teens in the open sea .
One of Burton's best .	I am not a big Tim Burton fan . For the most part , other than this movie Batman is like the only other one he has done that I really like . This one though he did great . His like for darker things helps this movie be as good as it is . This time Crane is a detective who goes to Sleepy Hollow to investigate some murders . The atmosphere and Burton's use of colors really enhance this movie . I also like the change in the story , as a detective is just more interesting than a schoolteacher . Johnny Depp is great as Crane and the rest of the cast is good as well . There is even brief appearance by Christopher Walken and horror legend Christopher Lee . I wish Lee had a bigger role in this one . The story is really good in this one , though near the end it is almost more of an action than a horror . Still a good movie though . I love what happens to the woman in the end .
An enjoyable flick .	Part comedy , drama , and romance this one was a rather good little movie to watch . Black and Paltrow were great and Jason Alexander was hilarious . The movie is about a guy named Hal who is a rather decent guy , but he has a problem . When picking women he only looks at the outer beauty of a woman . . . this is explained in the opening scene . Hal gets trapped in an elevator with a guy who opens Hal's mind to the inner beauty of women . Hal then suddenly finds the more unattractive girls perfect for him and this leads to some funny scenes . This also leads him to Rose Mary a gal he finds perfect , but everyone else sees a 300lb gal . This movie says a lot about how shallow our society is and does a good job of it . Though I don't think every unattractive or fat gal is beautiful on the inside and every attractive gal is ugly on the inside as the movie implies . The movie also could have been more clear that people Hal already knows would still look the same . I just wish ladies were as open and approachable as the movie portrays .
Funny first entry that spoofs Bond movies .	Granted there was a movie with Leslie Nielson called " Spy Hard " that sort of made fun of Bond movies , but not really . In the end it spoofed to much stuff and the only part clearly making fun of a Bond movie was the title song . This movie , the first in the set of three was a very good spoof of James Bond , though it was probably a bit better in making fun of his villains because for me the funniest thing about the movie was Dr . Evil . Austin Powers himself was somewhat funny for most of the flick with flashes of being really funny . However , I was dying laughing when Dr . Evil torched one of his men , but said man didn't die . I also like the overly complicated trap when he could have shot Austin and been done with it . The story , Dr . Evil makes a narrow escape at the beginning , freezing himself so he can wreck havoc again in the future . Austin Powers does the same so he can once again stop his foe . Of course , there are jokes involving Austin's long layoff and returning to a new decade and his adjustment to the times . There are also father son issues involving Dr . Evil and his clone son . Though there are times this movie just kind of drifts off for me and the jokes don't hit on all cylinders , but for the most part it is a very funny movie .
Great Action and Comedy .	The movie is about a writer who has to go to South America to bring a map to this guys who have the writers sister . This is a fun movie to watch , as the writer ( Turner ) runs into Michael Douglas and the interplay between these two is great to watch . The map leads to a stone so Douglas's character convinces Turner's to go after the stone , cause frankly he wants it . Danny DeVito also is good in this one and is quite funny . They have a lot of adventures in the jungles and that is another thing I like about this one . The conclusion is also pretty good as well .
Let's just say this role playing game is different . . .	First off , if you don't already own this game , it is going to be nearly impossible to find . I actually got it when it first came out and paid the standard price of 49 . 95 , now if you can find a used copy in a gaming store it is still that price and if you see a new copy online it is over one hundred dollars . Is it worth that much ? Well if you enjoy role playing games , but would like to try something a tad different in terms of story and characters then perhaps . I enjoyed this one for the most part myself , it was very challenging and the story was quite insane and chaotic . So what is the story you ask ? You and your friends go to this hospital at the request of your teacher , once there you meet a strange guy who means to kill you . Your teacher intervenes then prompts you to come to the roof where you witness the destruction of the world as you know it . You then awake to find a young boy and older woman over you , the boy takes a certain pity on you and infuses you with the power of a demon . You are no longer human , you now have great power , power enough to traverse this new warped land that spreads out before you . During your quest you must recruit demons and angels into your party as they now roam freely among the land , while humans are reduced to nothing more than souls for the most part . Your two schoolmates , the guy who tried to kill you , and a reporter being the exceptions . You must unlock the mysterious of the land , and you must customize your main character so that he may conquer all the rival demons vying for control of this twisted world . Yes , this game is a challenge , as you are attacked nearly everywhere . You do get to talk to various demons and souls too . At times though it can be to hard , which is why I did not score it higher . . . and it may have been a tad better had the characters talked aloud instead of the word boxes . . . still this one is a keeper .
Kind of the start of the wave of over the top violent action 80's movies !	Yes , this movie was the start up for mainstream , violent , bloody action movies of the 80's . Movies like Robocop , Die Hard , and a host of others . This one though was the most successful at the box office with a whopping 150 million back in 1985 . Which makes the low score here a bit surprising . Granted I can see why it would not score as well as the first movie in this series as First Blood is the more realistic of this set of movies . I liked this one more because of the over the top way it was presented , but it seems a lot of people must rate this movie as quite bad for it to be rated in the five's . Oh well , to each his own . This movie has Col . Trautman going to a prison where Rambo is doing hard time , the Col . has a proposal for Rambo . If he agrees to do a certain mission in Vietnam he will be pardoned . Well I think Rambo agrees to it less for the pardon , but more for the opportunity to do the mission which is find intelligence that shows the Vietnamese still are harboring prisoners of war . He goes in and there is a bit of action here and there and then Rambo gets caught , then escapes and goes on a bloody rampage . Granted it is a bit much , I still found this movie very fun and entertaining . Lots of bullets are expended , arrows shot , and missiles too ! You know the one guy working in Vietnam is a bit of a butt , so that makes the ending a bit satisfying . So if you are watching this one , do not try to compare it to the first one . . . it was trying to be a bit realistic , while this one sort of says to the heck with that .
Not as good as the first two Alien movies , but it is the easiest to watch .	I enjoyed this , the fourth movie of the Alien saga . As good as the first two , no , but at least it was a lot better than part three which I did not really care much for at all . This is also the fastest paced and more humorous of the four movies and that only adds to the appeal . You never get as tense as you did watching the first two , but that can be a good thing if you just want to watch the aliens killing and being killed rather than watching something that makes your heart race . Weaver is back as a clone of her former self , and quite frankly she seems to be having a lot more fun in this one than in the others . Ryder and Pearlman make great additions and really add the overall effect of this film . The aliens are once again reborn and they take over a ship as of you expect to happen . No one ever listens when they are told that the aliens can not be controlled . A group of mercenaries join forces with Weaver to fight their way to freedom off the alien infested ship . Good movie , though there is a few bizarre scenes here and there including one with Weaver and an alien . This one is not the best of the series , but it is a fun movie to watch .
Improvement over part one .	This one was better than the first one , it had a more interesting assortment of characters and the plot was better too , involving a religious group . I always enjoy a role playing game that has a religious cult at its heart . This one has your character losing his parents at the beginning of the game through strange circumstances he ends up being raised in an orphanage I think . During his quest he must learn the secrets of this strange religion and that of the dragon gods . He also has to build a community too . Some funny moments in this one as at one point our hero and his gang are literally cooked ! You visit many locals and become friends with lots of bizarre characters one of which is a frog dude I think , a monkey guy , a winged girl and a cheetah girl . Each of them as a skill that can be used to reach new places and break barriers . However , the game has a fatal flaw . . . it has three endings to it and all of them suck . One of them sucks because it is so sad , the other cause it just ends and the one that is supposed to be the best because it doesn't really show what happens to the characters after their battle . Also , the transformation into a dragon this time is not as effective . It only consists of a single attack rather than staying a dragon for the duration of the fight . Still , I found this game more entertaining than the first one .
A duck and cover shooting military game .	I do not usually care for this type of game unless there is something interesting going on . In the case of this game it is the fact you are going against an army of monsters that are coming from within the earth . So that right there means it will not be the typical shooter or bland army game . So you have your super tough soldier you control , released from a prison because at this stage in the conflict the military needs all the help they can get . So you now must battle your way through the locust horde to reach various mission objectives all with the sole purpose of destroying the opposition . Fear not , though as you have other soldiers on your side , helping you with their firepower as well . You also get a vehicle to drive and plenty of weapons , though I really loved the default weapon best . A machine gun with a chainsaw bayonet . The sniper rifle was also cool . Plenty of monsters to shoot too , as you have your basic foot soldiers , your giant nearly indestructible monsters , bat type creatures that avoid light and others . So even though usually this type of game is not for me , this one was rather fun and exciting .
Good action adventure epic soars through the sky .	The movies plot itself is highly improbable , and there are a lot of factual errors , but do you want a documentary or do ya want to see a cool action movie featuring a butt kicking president played by the guy who did Han Solo ? What we have here are some terrorist from Russia I think ( why are terrorist from countries that don't actually have gripes with us in the movies ) taking over air force one with president and family in tow . Of course , the president does not get captured , but instead eludes the terrorist and complicates matters for them as he frees some of the hostages and instead of leaving himself stays to get his family back . The movie seems to run a little long in places and there are a couple of pointless plot points ( the whole Dean Stockwell character ) , overall though and mainly it is a cool action movie in the same vein as Die Hard or other movies where you have the one free guy making trouble for the bad guys . Speaking of bad guys , Gary Oldman is pretty good here as the head bad guy , so is most of the cast of this flick . Harrison Ford is usually good in anything so he fits right in here and makes for a very heroic albeit unrealistic president .
Well the movie that seemed as if it would never be released finally was . . .	and surprisingly I enjoyed it . Not the best movie ever , but I thought it was a very well paced horror movie a bit like " The Omen " with enough differences to keep it interesting . A woman who proves most miracles that occur usually have a scientific reasoning behind them is approached by a man who is having a problem in his town and wants her there to find out what is going on . Seems that the water has turned to blood in the nearby river , of course she is going to try to dispel that when other things of this nature occur such as dead frogs and livestock and a very powerful bout of lice . All signs seem to be pointing towards a little girl that lives on the outskirts of town a girl whose brother died of mysterious circumstances right before the river turned to blood . The movie was at its best to me when they were trying to find the reasons behind the strange occurrences , but it is still good when she just has to believe something is up . The ending was okay , if a bit to flashy for my tastes . Still , considering how many times this one was pushed backed it was surprisingly good . Most movies pushed back as much as this one are pushed back because they really suck .
Great Zombie fun !	Though it is responsible for the demise of the dawn of the dead type zombie and movies it is still one of my favorite zombie flicks . Thanks in part to great performances by Clu Gulager and James Karen , the other guy with Karen at the beginning and the embalmer Ernie . The rest though are the typical teenagers you would expect in a horror movie . The zombies in this one are released thanks to two idiots who reanimate everything that was once alive in a medical supply house including a cadaver . Well Burt decides to ask his friend to burn the body in a crematorium . He goes along with it , but the chemical that caused the bodies to come alive in the first place disperses in the air and when it rains on the cemetery the dead come to life looking for the one thing that eases their pain . . . human brains ! Some funny moments and horrifying moments are found in the flick , though I wish there was a bit more humor near the end of the movie .
A good mixture of action and comedy .	This is a good movie . . . about a cop , who is recruited to be part of this secret agency . He is basically recruited there against his will , as he is given a new face and even a new name . It is funny how he gets the name Remo Williams ; a lot of thought was put into it . Most of this movie is the training that Remo ( play excellently by Fred Ward ) must go through to become the agent . His teacher is an old Korean played by Joel Grey who is great in the role . It is funny watching this two do their roles cause they are great and have a very good chemistry on the screen . Most of the action takes place near the end , as Remo has to investigate this guy whom sales weapons and stuff to the military . Great conclusion to this one as there is some good action scenes . Too bad there was never a sequel to this one cause it was a fun movie to watch .
Fun summer blockbuster that some just took to seriously .	I enjoyed this movie , sure it isn't the most original movie ever made or the best , but it was what it set out to be . . . which is a combo alien attack movie of the 50's plus an all-star disaster movie of the 70's . A lot of critics don't like this one and a lot of people who think of themselves as critics don't care much for it either , but it still brought in over 300 million at the box office in the summer of 96 . I thought it was an entertaining film with lots of action and a good dose of comedy as well . One complaint I have is that it runs a bit long and you feel the time pass not like other movies like " The Two Towers " where it doesn't feel like all that much time has passed . Another problem with this movie is that it is best seen in the theater . This movie has a score of only six at imdb , so a lot of people who saw it probably saw it on TV . Or if they did see it at the theaters , realized it just wasn't as good on the small screen when they saw it on TV . The movie also benefited from a great ad campaign that started with a super bowl spot that showed the White House being destroyed . The movie is basically an alien invasion movie and it is like a 50's science fiction movie . It also has a lot of stars , not the biggest names , just like a 70's disaster flick . If you don't care for either of these genres you probably won't like this movie , but if you like one or the other or both it is worth checking out . Just don't take it too seriously and have fun watching it .
I thought at first it would be the best Grandia yet , but it suffers a bit after the halfway point on .	This Grandia started off with a bang , great introduction , the graphics completely ramped up and the fighting engine from previous Grandia's was intact . The story was also great as our wannabe pilot finds himself in the middle of a pursuit for a mysterious girl . Add to that lots of humor , a wise cracking ship captain , a fixed game of dice and this game was going great . It continues to do so as our hero meets his hero and flies the heroine into a holy city to perform a ritual to speak with a god . Somewhere though the game just loses some luster as unlike previous Grandia games , you don't get to have all that many playable characters coming in and out of your party . The villains , aside from one of them , are for the most part largely unexplored . . . I mean you will not know their motivations at all . Then there is a point where you just keep hitting dungeon after dungeon with no real opportunity to explore any new cities or such . Then there is the combat difficulty . In previous Grandia's , you never had to build your level . . . by that I mean spend an hour or two just fighting monsters to level up . You simply had to fight everything in your path and by the end you had no troubles . Here the monsters got incredibly hard , not only did I have to level up , I had to run from monsters . Especially in the last level , I had a harder time with the regular monsters than I did with the final boss . Still , it was a pretty good game with the best ending of any in the Grandia series .
Great suspense thriller .	I saw the preview for this one and had to see it to see if Russell was able to get his wife back . This movie is a great edge of seat movie and has some twists and turns along the way . The plot has Russell and his wife stranded in the middle of nowhere when their car breaks down . A trucker comes along and offers to give them a lift . Russell sends his wife , but insists he stay with the car . After awhile , he fixes the car and drives into town and goes to the place his wife is supposed to be , but she isn't there . Later , he gets the police to stop the trucker , but there is no sign of his wife and the trucker insists he has never seen Russell before . Russell has a lot of obstacles to go through to find his wife , but there is a nice payoff at the end .
Good movie , but certain parts of the film seemed to keep me in the dark .	This movie was really quite enjoyable . . . its long runtime was a no issue for me . The main problem I had with this film is that I have never read the graphic novel that it is based on and certain parts of the film had me going " huh , what , who ? " . Do not get me wrong though , still a good movie and I got it enough that I was not totally lost or anything . The movie starts with a bang with the murder of a former superhero known as the Comedian . Well not to super as you will see through flashbacks this guy was a bit brutal , yet he also seemed to get it in ways most do not . He was the Comedian , a punchline of the American people almost a caricature of its worst . Through the story you meet others from the days of superheros as for some reason they are outlawed during the time of this world a strange 1985 parallel world where Nixon is the president still and the world is on the brink of a global nuclear war that would seemingly end most life . The only thing that seems to prevent this is one of America's strongest superheros a person who is seemingly close to being a god , Dr . Manhattan . Well he and another former superhero , Ozymandias is trying to create a limitless amount of fuel that would help rid the need for war . Well the death of the Comedian does not sit well with another superhero known as Rorschach who is a rather brutal hero in the same mold as the Punisher . He warns Nightowl , and Dr . Manhattan and his girl the Silk Specter . Through all this you know all is not as it seems and you are heading to some strange revelations at the end . Good action scenes as I loved watching the opening battle and the Rorschach prison escape . . . actually I loved everything about him being in prison as he was by far my favorite character cause even though he seemed the weakest of the bunch he still persevered and even though he seemed a tad off he still kept to his principles . Suffice to say I did not care for the ending to much . However , this was a very fun ride and my main complaints come from the fact this movie could have actually used a longer runtime . There was this cat that was with Ozymandias that came out of nowhere and talking to some who have read the novel was actually a lot more developed . I wanted to know why superhero vigilantes were banned as well . I have so many other stuff I wish they had developed as Ozymandias is almost a no show in the movie especially in the flashback scenes , I would have liked to see him in action as a superhero . So I liked it for the most part , I do want to read the graphic novel that I am told is a lot better than the movie .
One of the rare games for the sega cd I enjoyed .	Yes , I played this game on the sega cd video game console , however I do believe it was originally a computer game . This game was a bit different than the games I was used to playing as in this game you progressed through your quest with really no fear of dying . You just solved the puzzles and moved on in your quest . A nice change of pace to be sure in the days of lives and limited continues and many deaths by way of the mysterious pit . This game has you as a wannabe pirate named Guybrush Threepwood . The name is a bit funny is it not ? Well the entire game is a rather funny ordeal as our pirate must navigate many obstacles on his quest to become a pirate and rescue the governor's daughter from the pirate ghost LeChuck . Basically all there is to it , you are constantly faced with puzzles to help you proceed such as getting yourself launched from a cannon , having to buy a boat from a dubious salesman , getting past the dreaded piranha poodles , getting caught again and again by natives on an island only to escape buy the same way as the natives keep putting on more high tech doors on your prison , and touching the most violent beast ever just to have a man join your crew of dangerous pirates . So for a fun and rather funny game this one was very good . For the most part the puzzles are not to hard to figure out , only the one involving the head and maze gave me trouble and it was a breeze once I figured out what to do .
Good movie , but hard to believe it made as much as it did .	First off , this was a rather good flick for me . Nothing to great . . . I have seen a lot of films since I have seen this one that I like a heck of a lot more , but this was pretty good . A love story set on the Titanic is basically the story with a few plot points about class . Seeing the ship sink of course is the highlight for me cause it really did look good . I saw the actors did alright . . . I won't badger Leo , I don't hold anything against a guy just because lots of gals like him , I just call him a lucky bast # rd and be done with it . Kate looks pretty good in this flick and does a rather good job as well . Like I said though the boat sinking is the highlight and one complaint I have is that there wasn't enough character developement of other characters besides Leo's and Kate's . . . I have posted some theories on why I think it grossed so much on the message board here , because frankly I think it was a fluke it did gross so much , but I am not saying it was a bad flick .
The main title here is better than the one I bought it as .	I got this movie as " Count Dracula and His Vampire Brides " . This title is not very good as his brides are not really all that important to the plot . The main one here though fits it well . This is my first Hammer Dracula movie and despite its low score here I really enjoyed it myself , but then I am a big fan of Cushing and Lee . I do agree with the one reviewer though who said the one scene featuring Count Dracula coming in on the one girl should have been removed as it would have made Van Helsing's and Dracula's first meeting more effective . I also would have added ten to twenty more minutes as this one has a plot that needed more exploring . I also think this was the last of the Dracula films for Lee and Cushing and they should have gone out with a bigger bang . Still I really liked this one ; Lee is a great Count Dracula his size really makes him stand out . Peter Cushing is equally as good as Dr . Van Helsing , but that is no surprise . . . seeing him in other roles you can tell he would make a good Helsing . Lots of bizarre stuff in this one and Lee is not in it all that much , but not to worry Cushing is in it quite a bit . As long as one of them are seen a lot I will not complain . There is nudity too so all in all this one is really cool . Now though I really want to get all of the Hammer Dracula movies .
Good game , but man your arm tires playing it on the wii .	I enjoyed this Legend of Zelda game a good bit . It is actually the first one I have played and won since the one for the super Nintendo . The graphics are rather good and the story is a bit good too . There is just so much to do that at times you can get frustrated and using the wii remote can also prove to be a headache . The fighting consists of swinging the remote here and there , only to have enemies reappear moments later or even if you leave a room and return . I wish they would stay dead a bit longer . Also , there are moves that are made harder by the wii controller as well . Still , a rather engaging storyline propels this one and makes you want to finish the game . That and the fact I had the strategy guide to help me . Lots of locales await you too , the desert , an icy field , and even a submerged temple . You must gather your equipment as in every Zelda game to proceed . And speaking of Zelda , let's just say the game really should not be named after someone whose role in the game is minimal at best . You have your mini boss fights and your big boss fights , I usually had more trouble with the mini ones because all the big ones have tricks that the book tells you how to solve . I also enjoyed Link's little helper in this one as a strange shadow creature named Midna . The ending was a bit sad , however all in all a good game for the wii .
Dalton's first of two Bond movies really good .	Dalton was a pretty good Bond , if a bit to serious , and this movie is quite entertaing . The only problem with it are the villans . They aren't the most memorable of the Bond franchise . Joe Don Baker plays a weapons dealer who also dabbles in drugs . There is a guy who looks and acts sort of like Robert Shaw's character in " From Russia With Love " and another guy who plays the Brits against the Russians so he can get Bond to assasinate a guy . Other than the lack of a memorable villian though this Bond movie is really good . A great opening sequence , a cool car chase where Bond actually puts the gadgets on his car to good use , a great scene on an airplane , and many more delightful action scenes . This one also features the more simple formula as it involves weapons and drug dealings .
Ron Pearlman makes this one .	What do you expect though , he is the title character and he is the main focus . That is Ron Pearlman though , he is an underrated actor and it is nice to see him as the star in a rather big movie . This movie is good too , but not without its flaws . The main problem I had with it other than the John Hurt character and Hellboy , no other character is really all that developed . Which is probably fine if you read the comics , but I have not so I would have liked to have known a little more about some of the characters . This is especially the case with the villains . . . all three were underdeveloped with the lady in the group being the most so . I would have also liked to have seen more monsters rather than the same one they had through the whole picture . Still though this movie was good as it had great action , the effects were good and there was good humor in it as well . And as I said before Pearlman was great . The plot is more of an origin type plot which is to be expected for the first movie of any comic character . A little more development would have helped it a bit , but all in all this is one wild ride with a lot of cool looking locations .
Bond wants revenge !	The plot is that above . Felix is left for dead and Bond goes after the drug kingpin that almost killed Felix and did murder his new wife . This is one of the few Bonds where Bond isn't on a typical mission , in fact Bond disobeys more orders here than any other . Great action sequences abound and the story here is good to . Dalton is good , his super seriousness serves him well here as the tone of this flick is a bit darker than most of the Bond movies . The villans are better in this one than Living Daylights , but in this one the Bond gals are probably the most forgettable . They do their job ok , they just don't have anything really special about them . All in all though this film is rather good . Nothing against Pierce , but to bad Dalton stopped being Bond so soon . And the reason this Bond performed poorly at the box office was the fact it came out in the summer of 89 a year of a bunch of hit movies and this one got lost in the wake and was poorly advertised .
The Griswolds take a nice relaxing trip to Europe . . . yeah right .	Yes , the Griswolds are back for yet another trip , this time to Europe and while not as funny as the first adventure it is still a very humorous trip . The story starts with the Griswolds on a very strange game show , I can not really say what is similar as the contestants are dressed as pigs . Sort of a trivia type game show mixed with family feud as the Griswolds must face this super smart family . This particular show comes equipped with a slightly perverted host played very well by Sean Astin . Well somehow the Griswolds win and are off to Europe where they will get to spend some time in quite a few European countries . It starts out with a bang in merry old England and quite frankly this is the funniest section of the movie . France I believe follows , then I think Germany and finally Italy . The husband and wife are back as Chevy Chase and Beverly DeAngelo play there roles very well . The two kids here are different , and not quite up to the last two children they still do fairly well . You get some other stars as well , just not up to the first movie , still Eric Idle of Monty Python fame has one very memorable scene on his bike . So as for laughs there are quite a few , granted this one is not as realistic as the first movie . Still , you get some great scenery as you get to see Europe and you also get to see a boob or two in this one which I find odd as this one somehow managed a pg-13 rating despite a bit of female nudity . I mean the first one was rated R and granted it had more cussing , this one still had more nudity which is usually also an automatic R . So all in all not quite as good as the first film it is still a very good trip type comedy .
Very interesting Asian horror , worth a couple of looks .	This was a very interesting and creepy movie from Korea . . . good story , beautiful visually , and great music too . Perfect , no it had a flaw or two , overall though I thought it was a very good Asian horror movie . The tale has these two sisters coming home from what was apparently a stay at a hospital . Upon their arrival they are greeted warmly at first by their stepmother . However , as things move along the stepmother seems to grow more and more hostile to the two sisters , especially the younger one who is more quiet and reserved unlike the older sibling who seems able to take up for herself . That is about all I am going to say though as I don't want to give it away , I was somewhat confused on first viewing , but after going to the message boards here and re-watching the movie I pretty much get it now with the exception of the flaws I mentioned . The flaws are probably the scariest bits in the film , but they seem to serve no other purpose to the story except to scare . There are three scenes like this in the flick . . . the dream sequence with the black figure ghost ( I know who she is , but not the point of the dream ) , the dinner scene with the woman going into fits and the apparition under the sink , and the scene near the end involving the step mum . Like I said , these scenes just did not seem to fit in , and seem like they were added just for cheap scares , but if anyone can explain them in context to the story feel free to private message me . The rest of the film is great though and the ending was a surprise for me .
Why such a low score ? I thought it was rather good .	Maybe it is the fact it was scored so low that it surprised me . Everyone talked how bad it was so I just had lower expectations , but in general I thought this was a good horror movie . About a guy and his brother in a town down south , they run into trouble with the local rednecks right away . Then the younger brother disappears at the boarding house the two stay at . The older one then tries to find out what happened to his brother and what is happening to the town . I always like the mysterious town scenario so that is another reason I like this one . Some gore , but most of the killings are a bit to hard to see . I did not let it ruin the movie for me as it did for some of the others who have commented , still though you will notice it is particularly bad in the finish . However , overall I thought it was a good horror movie with a relatively good cast and all . I loved the scene where little Billy gets it . . . was not expecting that .
The woods are full of the dead . . .	Yes , this movie would go on to spawn two sequels , both of which had a bit more comic tone , however this one is almost pure horror . Albeit , with a couple of humorous scenes . The story , two couples and one sister go into the woods for a nice relaxing retreat . They end up at a cabin which is a bit run down , but not to bad of shape . Strange things happen and then they discover a secret in the basement that unleashes the evil dead ! What ensues you ask ? General mayhem and lots of gore . In fact this is the first time I have seen the movie in some time , I did not remember how bloody this movie got . This movie features a very young Bruce Campbell and some rather pretty girls and one other guy . They all do rather well , however , the real star is the unique style of the film which was kind of a new way of doing things back then . Basically , the foe or monster coming at a person basically being shown as the camera's point of view . Very effective . . . what else do you get , lots of body parts being chopped here and there and something else that is rare in horror movies a guy who is the lead and lasts the longest rather than a female . Granted there are still some of the same stuff you see in other horror movies . You will also probably say to the screen " don't do that ! ! " . Still this is a very good horror movie and hey the next two movies would be very good as well .
A rather fun Zelda like game for the Sega Gensis .	This game was actually a lot of fun and it is the only video game I have ever bought that came with a fruit rollup in it . I am also guessing that it was for the most part overlooked as I do not recall there ever being a sequel to this game despite the somewhat open ending to it . It was not perfect though as a couple of levels in this one could have one pulling out their hair , however , it is no more difficult than say a Legend of Zelda game in that regard . The plot is a bit different as you are a treasure seeker who stumbles across a fairy who seems to know the location of a rather large treasure . Also tracking the treasure a sort of rival group of treasure hunters who provide more comic relief than any sort of competition to the main character of the story . The quest takes place on an island and it has its various towns with various adventures and occupants who need varying degrees of help from the hero . The story is a bit different as there is trouble brewing in some areas , however , not in the way presented in most role playing games . You also have dungeons where you must get objects to get through them like those found in a Zelda game . The fighting is rather easy and the game never gets to challenging as far as the combat is concerned . Where it gets difficult is some of the dungeons puzzles can become a bit hard to figure out , and you have to back track to find some items you may need to get through other areas . Still , a very fun action role playing game for the Sega Genesis , I would not mind seeing a sequel or remake of it on one of the more advance systems as I think it would translate pretty good to one . However , that is highly unlikely to ever happen .
Pretty good video game turned movie .	It is a good movie if you like action , gore , and horror . This movie is non-stop and if you like the above then you will definately not be bored . A trained team of commando's have to break into a facility to find out why the computer running the place killed everyone inside . What they find when they turn the computer off is that the computer was trying to hold back scores of zombies and other creepy things . The plot isn't anything original , but the movie is performed to perfection . Not as good though as classic zombie movies like Dawn of the Dead and such it still entertains . My main complaint is they killed the leader of the commandos to quickly he was my favorite character ( the poor guy didn't even get to be killed by zombies , but really cool lasers ) .
The best of the series , period !	In fact it isn't even close . This is about the only Nightmare I fully enjoy . It is a creepy , highly atmospheric horror that delivers . It centers on these teenagers that seem to be having the same dreams of this strange man . This man in their dream menaces them and terrorizes them . In fact , if he injures you in the dream you will have the injury when you awaken . This movie had a very good story and a great killer in Freddy . Unfortunately , in later episodes Freddy became a comedian and his overall creepiness disappeared . This one , however , is great as there are some very memorable death scenes .
Wow , I remember this HBO short .	Not much you can really say about this HBO short film other than it was short and rather effective as it had that 1970's horror vibe to it . You can read what it is basically about in the summary and yes that as they say sums it up nicely . The only thing I can really add is to say as a kid this one creeped me out a bit even though there was a light heartiness about it in certain areas . The end though is not light hearted as there is a struggle that is rather disturbing . Thankfully there are no more reel to reels eh ? All in all though it is a fairly good effort , it makes one pine for the days they showed shorts on HBO and shorts were not simply crappy movies done on a video camera and posted on youtube .
Well there is no going back for the dog in this one .	I know this will outrage lovers of the original movie which I thought was an okay ghost story , but more happens in the first twenty minutes of this one than happens in the entire film of the original movie . Granted some of the things that happen are a total rip off of such recent films like " The Grudge " and " The Ring " , but it still makes for an entertaining horror film . Unlike those two mentioned above , however , this film is a bit more graphic and is actually rated R which at least steers away from the trend of making the pg-13 horror film for the entire family . The film has a lot of the same elements as the first one , it keeps the same date and setting . . . a family where the father is a step moves into a house that should be out of their price range , but isn't . Why ? Well there were murders there of course , another family was killed there and it kind of brings down the price considerably . Why are all real estate agents so darn gung ho about selling a house that they never tell the new owners about the odd stuff they see in just the few minutes they are there . Well everything goes great , that first afternoon while moving in , after that visions of those slain appear at the most inappropriate times and blood drips freely from various objects . Throw in a really annoying babysitter that gets a bit more than she deserves ( being fired would be more appropriate ) and you got yourself a very nice and a bit bloody haunted house movie . The only weak spot I thought there would be is Ryan Reynolds in the lead role , but he did rather good , but I still think Brolin was better as George Lutz , but they seemed to be going for a more of a Shining type possession rather than the more subtle one of the earlier movie . Worth a look see and a couple of scares .
Better zombie movie than " Versus " , but not as cool .	This movie is more of a pure zombie movie than the movie " Versus " , but I still liked " Versus " better . In the end that one was not purely a zombie movie , but more of a fight movie while this one had more zombie gut munching . This movie has jewel thieves going to an old military building to sell their stash of stolen goods . What do they find there ? Zombies , from an experiment gone bad . Soon the mob shows up and they pull a fast one on the jewel thieves and oops , they accidentally make more zombies rise from the dead . Well after awhile the military shows up to activate a bomb to blow the building up , but there is apparently a zombie that has a bit more intelligence than the rest and she is not willing to let herself get killed . Some good blood and mayhem ensues , but not quite as good as the back of the box promised . Still , I enjoyed this movie , though it is not without its flaws . Not enough victims to be killed and the Americans present in the film . Not that I had a problem with them , but when they were in scenes with this one Japanese guy , he talked in English too , and you couldn't understand him easily when he did . I prefer they just use all Japanese actors and have subtitles . Other than that and a few other minor details this was a cool Japanese zombie movie and where else are you going to see a zombie that actually looks really good ( and by good I don't mean gory , but attractive ) ?
Chan makes another family friendly action film .	This movie is surely not going to be a big money maker at the box office , which is a shame , because this movie is an appropiate movie for people of all ages . It has good action , good laughs , and some rather funny cameos as well . I loved how the movie transitioned from one country to the next and had the countdown . Coogan was really good in his role as was Chan . Sure this movie was mainly a Chan showcase , but I still enjoyed it , I find nothing wrong with adapting a story to one's strengths . Why not , Jules Vernes is dead , he is not aware of anything any more . We have the usual obstacles blocking our racing trio's path , but in the end you know nothing can really stop them from reaching their goal . It is also about friendship and getting all the facts of history messed up . Then again why not ? They rewrite history all the time these days so who really cares , this movie is not being presented as a true story anyway . Here is a family friendly movie that can entertain people of all ages , I just hope it can do better on dvd and video . Also , why do people always give movies the score of 1 here ? Two and three are hardly ever used , but one is overused . By giving a movie a one you are saying it is one of the worst movies ever and it has no redeeming value . I just do not like to give a lot of ones I guess .
Thought this movie went at a rather good pace .	I enjoyed this movie , but then I always enjoy a good Rutger Hauer movie , or even a bad one for that matter . This movie has him as a convict in a prison who was betrayed by his girlfriend and by his buddy during a heist . He is sent to this weird prison though that is quite different from most . Here there is a mix of male and female prisoners . . . they even get to have a night a week they can get together . Water must be conserved , and the prisoners all get cute collars which are linked up to another prisoner and if these two get to separated they explode taking off the wearers head . Yes , only mild differences to be found here , eh ? So after awhile at the prison , our hero ends up escaping said prison and must do certain things in order to find the loot that was hid and to keep themselves together or their heads are going to be blown off ! So you get your differing ways for them to get separated and at times they have to get creative in keeping together . The flow of the movie is rather fast , and the ending to me was just perfect . Though one has to wonder if the exploding collar idea came from an earlier science fiction action movie " The Running Man " ?
A rather good zombie flick .	This movie that is simply named zombie , is a rather good movie . Unlike most zombie films this one actually establishes plot and stuff before the rampaging zombies even appear . A reporter and a gal looking for her father head to an island that is supposed to be cursed with a couple on vacation . Once on the island they learn of the terrible disease that apparently makes the dead come back to life . The doctor there seems shady and you wonder if he is responsible or is he really trying to find the cure as he claims . Before any answers can be found out the dead make their appearance and go on a eating spree . Along with this there is a cool underwater sequence , a woman who has to go into the water with no top , and gore galore . The end almost make it seem to be a prequel to " Dawn of the Dead " .
House of Horror part of the title isn't really accurate .	This movie has five strangers boarding a train and heading to an unknown destination . A sixth man boards and is some sort of fortuneteller with a twist . This movie was really good , but I don't know why it was called house of horrors , as it doesn't take place in a house , but rather a train . It is a rather good anthology movie with five stories as the Dr . tells everyone a possible future , a supernatural future . The main reason I watched this one is because it had Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing , but you also get to see Donald Sutherland , Michael Gough ( Alfred in the Batman movies ) , and Bernard Lee ( M from the first Bond movies ) . I thought it was a Hammer film , but there was nothing to indicate this and another reviewer said it wasn't , but it sure plays like one . You get five stories the first concerning a house with a curse , a werewolf curse . The second a killer plant . The third a tale of voodoo . The fourth about revenge and finally a vampire tale . These stories are told to the passengers then a fifth card is read to tell them how to get out of the situation , unfortunately the death card is pulled each time . While watching this movie this was very confusing as every story seemed to have an easy way out , especially since the guy told them all about it , so I was wondering why these guys seemed to have no future , but all is made clear by the end of the picture . I liked all the stories , though Lee's was my favorite . His was the fourth story about an art critic that keeps getting hounded by an artist whose work Lee doesn't care for . The artist humiliates Lee and persists in following him and Lee obviously snaps and runs down the artist . I have a bit of sympathy for both characters , what happens to the artist and Lee . Let's face it the artist got Lee that one time and he should have left it at that . Though Lee shouldn't have done what he did , he was due some payback . The plant story was the weakest as it had a very ambiguous ending . The voodoo story was the lightest of the five stories . All in all a very good movie if you like Hammer films and love watching Lee and Cushing .
The Chimera are coming ! ! !	Yes , this game takes place in an alternative world where World War II never happened . Instead the threat comes from Russia in the form of mutated humans suffering from a strange virus or something . Though I don't really know for sure , as during the story different things happen throughout to point to strange occurrences and happenings that lead one to believe there are other factors involved in the appearance of the Chimera ( the creatures you fight throughout the game ) . You are Nathan , an American soldier helping the Brits fight to reclaim England . However , the game started out killer hard , I was wondering how in the hell I was going to win it when my character suddenly is infected ! ! ! What has happened , is this the shortest game ever or what ? No , you are somewhat immune to the Chimera bug , however , you do get the benefits of having your health being able to regenerate and stuff now , making the game a lot smoother . For the most part this game is your typical shooter , however , it has a couple of differences . For one you get to carry around a whole heck of a lot of weapons instead of the usual two or three others allow you to carry . You also have points in the game where you drive a jeep , a tank , and an alien weapon . Well I guess Halo allowed that as well . So in the end a rather good shooter with some great graphics and pretty good story . Though I prefer seeing my character on screen as it is easier to take cover and dodge .
Cool vampire action .	This movie is more action than horror , and almost plays like two movies . The first half of the film has George Clooney and Quentin Tarantino as a couple of homicidal brothers on the run from police trying to get to Mexico . Along the way the kidnap Kietal and his family . The second half has them in a bar , where after awhile all heck breaks loose as it turns out this bar lures drivers in to kill them as the employees are all vampires . Great action in this movie , though not much on horror . This movies best scene is when the vampires first attack and then the ending scene where they have to fight the vampires off . Often bloody and violent this movie does not disappoint . Though it does take a little while to get to the cool vampire scenes . I think they could have shaved a little time off , but all in all it was still a good movie . And check out Salma Hayek's brief but effective appearance .
Part of the science comedy movie craze .	Movies come in phases now and then where a bunch of movies with similar themes come out at about the same time . There was the underwater craze of 89 ( " The Abyss " , " Leviathan " , and " Deepstar Six " ) and there was the body switch craze ( " Big " , " Vice Versa " , and one with Dudley Moore ) . This movie came out during the comedy with a science twist . The other two movies that came out during this phase are " Real Genius " and " Weird Science " . I liked this phase as I enjoyed all three movies quite a bit . This one was no exception as it combined humor and science fiction very well . This one has a couple of kids finding this strange device that I think ended up being some type of engine . Anyway when this thing gets hooked up with power and turns on all sorts of strange stuff starts happening . The thing seems to be able to move time or open portals . The end is great as the thing really goes berserk and it turns the school ( I think it was the school ) into a battle zone complete with different times . There is a dinosaur and mutants . All in all I am probably in the minority in liking this one , but I thought it was really good .
I actually thought this one was the best of the police academy movies .	Yes , from the score here I can see most people do not share my opinion , but I can roll with it . I just found this one funnier than the first one , not by much mind you and a rather good sequel to the first film as well . Though this movie would start the disturbing trend of the studio making a sequel for this franchise every year for like seven straight years which is way to much for any type of movies . I say as a general rule a sequel should come out at least two years after the original with three being the optimum . One is to few , four it starts to become to many . Still , the opening of this film having a guy locking up his store had me laughing as a kid and for the most part the jokes were a hit . Granted in the future installments the jokes would become stale , here they were still rather fresh and a few new ones were added in too . I loved it when Tackleberry met his partners family and such . Bob Cat is in this movie too , and as much as I can not stand him I thought he did a good job here . They replaced G . W . Bailey here and I thought the guy who played Mauser or whatever was actually an improvement as they sort of play the same type character . I also liked them getting their partners and I enjoyed seeing them doing more police work on the streets rather than the academy stuff . So while most others would disagree I thought this was the funniest of the Police Academy movies and the last good one period .
Rather good Final Fantasy , however I thought it tailed off near the end .	I preferred Final Fantasy IV to this one , but I did enjoy this one greatly when it was released as Final Fantasy III . The opening was absorbing , the plot really good for awhile , this one though does suffer from a rather weak ending . This is nothing new , most role playing games start out with a bang yet as they progress they become a bit tiresome . Probably because the most fun to be had is meeting the characters and doing the simpler things before moving on to the conclusion where the entire world is about to be destroyed by an evil villain . Still , for the most part the Final Fantasy series doesn't have that problem , this one just at a certain point becomes to free roaming for my tastes is all . The story follows a group of various people from various walks of life becoming entangled in a struggle over an empire that uses machines and such and who are also experimenting with magic . The resistance fighters gain the services of a young girl who was brainwashed into working with the empire and she is somewhat the focal point , however , this final fantasy doesn't have the typical focal point character such as Cecil , Tidus , or Cloud . The fighting is turn based and is a bit of a step up graphic wise from part IV . The characters all can learn every magic so they are a bit less unique than in IV , they are still more unique than say those of later versions as they use their different weapons and each has his or her own special skill . The plot is great , and there are quite a few memorable scenes , where the story kind of became less interesting for me is when you get the second airship later in the game and then the story is just finding your missing comrades and heading to the final battle . In fact , you are not required to find anyone at all and you can even head straight for the final battle if you are so inclined . There are also a few plot points that are never really touched upon as well , such as Shadow's identity and that character's relationship with Realm which is hinted at , but not really touched upon . The ending was weak too compared to four , all in all though still a very good game . There is also a section of the game I really enjoyed and that is when the characters all got split up at one point , this is a device I wish was used more in role playing games especially featuring many playable characters .
I liked it . . . but it was no better than the original .	I enjoyed this remake of the 70's disaster flick for the most part . . . just no better or worse than the original . I miss Gene Hackman as Lucas sort of filled his role and sort of didn't , and I missed a lot of the characters of the older one . However , I have always liked Kurt Russell so I enjoyed seeing him here . The effects , as expected , were better ( not by leaps and bounds , but they were a bit better ) and this one moved at a much faster clip so that was a positive as well . Still , not much in the way of development either as one minute we our introduced to the characters , and the next a giant tidal wave is about to crash into the ship . Our survivors quickly say , " lets go up " . Well the ones that form the core group of survivors do and they head on out . The first one was a bit more realistic in this area as well . . . and of course during their trip toward the bottom now the top of the ship our group of survivors meet obstacle after obstacle as they make their way and they of course have their numbers reduced . In the end a rather good disaster flick that comes and goes quickly with nothing to surprising about it , but it does pass the time well .
Eighth installment not perfect , but still really good .	This Final Fantasy for the most part is good . It has its low points mind you such as the lack of a really defined villain , a fighting engine your when you level up you only get a little stronger but the enemies level up and get really stronger , and the fact all the characters are about the same age and are all basically regular looking teenagers . Still , when this game first came out I was just starting college and the fact this FF features the use of an academy made it a lot of fun . The fighting is rather good , here though you basically must make use of beings called Guardian something or another and they are basically summons you equip to characters and when equipped they can increase strength , health and do a whole host of other things . You can gain more power by drawing different magic from enemies and a couple of other ways as well . In the end for this one I basically don't use magic at all and don't fight and kill all that many enemies if I can help it . Which makes this FF unique if not a tad frustrating at times . Still the story of a group of students doing various jobs as mercenaries is rather good . The graphics are a bit better than seven as the characters look a lot better . Towns , however , in this one are kind of pointless , I have never played another FF where towns were less interesting than this one , and there are a host of other problems too . Still , I liked the story for the most part especially the scenes where you travel as this other mercenary from the past and the ending is actually a bit better than seven's too .
A rather good rpg for the xbox 360 .	The selection of role playing games for the 360 is very slim . Other than this all you basically have is Fantasy Star Universe and Elder Scroll's Oblivion . Of these , only this one can really be compared to say a Final Fantasy type rpg . This game is rather fun , the story pretty good and the fighting rather good as well . It is turn based , using a grid system as depending on what attack you do the more squares on the grid are colored and the more enemies you damage . Works rather good and it is more fun to me than a action rpg when there are lots of characters to control . Here you can control a heck of a lot of characters , though most are going to be creatures called golems . . . in the end I found it easier to just use the main hero characters . The story has a youth in a magic type university accidentally awakening a creature called a Devil Golem . This Golem harvests the power of ice and is in fact called the Queen of Ice . Atsuma ( the main character ) must travel the lands and attempt to stop her goals and ambitions , though her actions seem to suggest she wishes Atsuma to try and stop her . If this is not bad enough she has taken Atsuma's best bud Toya as her puppet and power source . You meet other characters along with other Devil Golems and a really annoying emperor all in your quest to defeat the Queen of Ice . All in all rather good , not super difficult to play and the graphics are gorgeous , the American voices at times are a bit annoying , but overall an enjoyable albeit nothing original game .
Basically Escape from New York and Mad Max combined . . . which is a good thing .	Seriously , this movie rather surprised me in how much bloody action there was . I was just desperate to see a movie , and my parents told me they saw previews of this movie and I thought I would give it a go . In fact , I have never known less about a movie before seeing it than this one . So imagine my surprise when I got a very kick ass movie . Virtually non stop action that was really bloody . It was also one hell of a ride . The story , years earlier a disease known as the reaper virus takes out the north section of England and it is walled up , its citizens left to die . Years pass and London and the rest of England is not in very good shape . Overcrowding , financial turmoil and crime runs rampant . Add to this , the fact the reaper virus has appeared once again . What can be done you ask ? Well it seems that the reaper virus did not kill everyone in the infected zone , one of whom was a doctor working on a cure . Enter a special agent girl who has ties and a few other soldiers and they are off to this area walled off so many years ago in search of this doctor and possibly a cure . What they find is that the citizens left have become a bit like savages and they are going through their own civil war . Lots of gun fights and chases ensue . We even have our gal fighting a knight as some of the people look like they are from the road warrior the others like they are from king Arthur's court . It ends with one rather cool car chase . However , it isn't perfect as there are a few to many flaws here and there such as a car that rams through a bus and remains almost untouched . It does overcome these few faults to make one enjoyable movie that even has a star or two that one would recognize .
Not quite as good as the first Grandia , but it grew on me .	I was not wild about this Grandia when I first played it . I thought it was okay , but nothing really special . However , I have enjoyed it more upon subsequent playings mainly because now I just deal with the fact it is not a direct sequel to the original . I know , most rpg sequels are not , but I was so sure this one would be as the title refers to the same place and all . The fighting is really the only similarity between the two games and the walking the maps and such . The story is completely new . It has a young man who takes odd jobs here and there , and his new job is to escort this priestess to this temple to perform a ceremony . Well it is not that simple as this demon female appears after the ceremony goes bad and this is the start of the quest . Ryudo ( the hero ) is trying to escort the priestess to a holy city as she contains a very strange secret , meanwhile the demon female appears from time to time wanting Ryudo to help her collect strange pieces of a long dead dark god . Like I said not the original , it is still a lot of fun , but be prepared to fight quite a lot . Still , as long as you kill all enemies in your path , fighting in the later levels should be still relatively easy . And this one has one advantage over the original in that the ending is much better to me .
Good sequel to Night Watch . . . though it is somewhat hard to follow .	This movie is of course a sequel , and like no other sequel before I say it is very important to watch the first one or you will be lost . I watched the first one and I was confused here and there by this movie . So what do we have for a plot . It takes up a bit after the first one , as the dad whose son turned towards the dark ones at the end of the last movie is training a new recruit who he is a bit sweet on . It took me a bit to figure out who she was , but I think she was the one from the last movie that was going to cause some destruction by cursing herself . Well , there are deaths that occur and people are framed . The whole movie is basically a plot to get a war going again between the forces of dark and light . The son did not play as big a role in this as I thought as the movie was more about getting this chalk known as the chalk of destiny that can redo ones destiny . Some good action and some funny scenes as well , though there is also a most bizarre scene with the hero and his girlfriend in the shower . Doesn't sound strange , but when you see it you will understand . The movie is not without flaws though as the running time is a bit long . I can easily see a couple of cuts that could have been made to shorten the length a bit . There is some gore , but nothing like one would find in a more horror oriented movie , this one is more action than horror , even more drama than horror . The conclusion was okay , could have used a bit more here and there . . . though there was a good scene involving all this balls going through Moscow and tearing it up . The special effects are rather good as well . So in the end , a bit better than the first movie , however , it still could have used some work .
This movie steps out of the dark and is finally seen by us in America .	Rather good movie from Russia , however , I was expecting a bit more , probably all those reviews saying how great it was and such . Interesting story about a man who works for an agency called the " night watch " . This group monitors the illegal activities of those who side with the dark . The " night watch " consists of those who who side with light and both sides are vampires with differing gifts . There is a bit of action to see , not enough really , still the story is enough to keep me entertained . . . I figured the revelation at the end though as I am sure most would . However , the actual ending was quite sudden and was a bit of a surprise as it definitely sets up a sequel which I think one has already been made . The effects and the whole look of this movie is right out of Hollywood , it actually feels and looks like a movie filmed for the big screen . There is a bit of blood and gore , but beyond the opening scene not all that much . The story at one point seems a bit to much like a television episode at one point as well when the main character in the movie confronts this one gal , but overall it too feels like a big time movie . So I would say if you like movies like Constantine and blade give her a look see , it is a rather interesting film and I am looking forward to the sequel .
A simple movie with a simple plot .	Depp plays the title character and this movie just seems to go through a typical few days in this family's life . However , the main character is getting tired of it , and you can tell he is about to snap . There isn't a very well defined plot , but it seems to revolve around Arnie's birthday party and the coming of motor homes that drive through the area . This movie though doesn't revolve around plot , but rather characters . It is more of a character study I would say . The performances are rather good so it works for me . First time I saw this , before I knew who Leonardo was I actually thought he was a mentally ill person playing the part . This movie has some laughs too as it isn't all serious . It is worth a look .
Cool , action , sci-fi movie .	This movie would have a higher score if it weren't for very anal people who have to downgrade every movie that isn't an Oscar caliber picture . These people also listen to critics and basically mimic what the critics say in their reviews . This movie isn't meant to be serious , it is a nice fun movie where you can just relax and turn your brain off for a bit . Not all movies have to be deep and make you think . . . in fact it takes a lot less time and energy to make all those great movies than it does for the summer blockbusters . If I want to think hard and be challenged , I will read a book thank you very much , movies to me are an escape and should be an enjoyable experience . This movie was that for me . The story an asteroid is heading toward earth and the only way to stop it is to drill it and put a nuke in it . Does this sound like award winning material . . . no , but it is fun to watch . The cast is great and they seem to be having fun making this movie as well . The only scene I could have done without is the animal cracker scene . That was for the ladies , just like the special effects finale in Deep Impact was for the guys . All in all it is an enjoyable movie as long as you are not a super serious person who listens to what the critics have to say . Don't expect to be enlightened , just expect a nice escape . And no I am not attacking everyone who didn't like this film because it isn't for everyone . Just those whose reviews seem to attack the people who liked this film .
Better than I thought it would be .	I kept hearing people talking about this one . Either it was really good , or really bad . I found it to be a pretty good horror flick . Not too much gore as one might expect by the title , but all in all it didn't disappoint . A group of teens are driving through Texas ( I don't know why the plot outline says they are hippies ) so a brother and sister can make sure a grave of a relative is undisturbed . Apparently , a lot of bodies have been dug up in the cemetery and some of the bodies have even been put in crude poses . The brother is confined to a wheelchair . . . also along for the drive is the sister's boyfriend and another young couple . After the cemetery they drive along and see a hitchhiker and decide to pick him up . This would be mistake number one for these rather stupid teens , but hey they are teens so it is realistic that they would be incredibly dumb . The hitchhiker seems friendly enough at first , but later goes crazy so they dump him and continue on . They then hit a gas station , but there is no gas . Despite the attendant there basically telling them they would be better off not going to any houses in the area because of the people in the area , the teens do anyway as they go to a house that used to belong to the brother and sister's grandfather . Once there the couple goes for a swim , but there is no water in the swimming hole , so they go to the neighbors who might have gas and also have a bunch of cars underneath camouflage . This would tip off most of us to get the heck out , but no the teens proceed to walk right in the house and get killed by Leatherface . One complaint about this movie is that I think the killings could have been spaced out a bit more , but overall it was a rather good flick . Though it is pretty sad to watch the teens basically walk right into Leatherface's house and get whacked off . Only the blond caused him any trouble . I also wasn't thrilled when Leather face the gruesome killer didn't even seem to be the head of his strange family , but I can overlook that . This one almost plays out like a snuff film at times , and it is hard to see in some areas , but this just enhances the mood in the movie . All in all a good movie and a lot , lot , lot better than the only other Texas I have seen . . . part 4 .
I like it quite a bit . . . a lot more than the first Cyborg .	I was just looking at the 100 bottom movies according to IMDb users seeing if there was anything to review that I haven't yet and I found this little screen gem . One of those occasions when you see a movie ranked as one of the worst and you just have to be one of the few that actually likes it . Darn , well I guess I will get ridiculed and spat upon here , but for me this was a pretty good flick when I saw it . It has been awhile however , I remember it used to come on HBO late at night and I watched it two or three times and I haven't seen it really since and I would love to watch it again now knowing Jolie was in it . The story follows a cyborg and a guy trying to escape the clutches of this corporation and some bounty hunters after them . I think that is basically all there is to it , throw in a few scenes with Jack Palance and we have our movie . Some good action here and there , and some blood and violence as well . There is also a love story at play as well as the female cyborg and the guy who trained her to fight kind of fall in love with each other . The dialog sometimes becomes rather bad at times and it is by far not a top notch film , but for a b-movie it is really good . I don't know if it was a theatrical release though because it does not seem high quality enough for that , but it does make for one of the better direct to videos if it was one of those .
My favorite spider movie .	This movie is one of my favorite movies with killer normal size bugs in it . This one is about killer spiders , which kill simply by biting you and injecting you with their deadly venom . It starts with this trip in a rainforest or something . These guys led by Julian Sands , are studying spiders . One of the members is killed by one of the spiders found and it hitches a ride in his casket that takes him to a small town . It mates with a local spider and pretty soon there are quite a few of them . Jeff Daniels is rather good as the new town doctor with a fear of spiders and so is the rest of the cast as well . This one is part comedy and also part horror / thriller as well . When it was first advertised on TV some of the spots made it look like a comedy and others a horror , I went to the theater to see it and really enjoyed it for both . Goodman is also in this one . . . he plays an exterminator who is a bit extreme . All in all a good movie to give most people the jitters . Not me though , I just don't rattle easily .
A guilty pleasure .	Oh , how I wished I hated this movie . However , I don't . . . I actually enjoy this movie a lot . All the critics hate it , most people I talk to hate it , but I like it . Maybe it is the cool AC / DC soundtrack . . . I don't know . The action is pretty good and there are some pretty good kills in this one , though it isn't anything that is very scary at all . A couple of the scenes are annoying , but for the most part I enjoy this take on the King short story " Trucks " . This one has the machines of the world suddenly turning on humans , though in the end it is mainly trucks that are featured . Survivors at a gas station are stranded there as the trucks circle the facility . They have to find a way out or else . This isn't a movie that is worthy of awards or something , but I think it is a fun movie to watch .
A Raiders type adventure .	This movie and its sequel remind me a lot of " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ( this one more so ) . It is a great fast paced action movie with the only real horror being the fact the good guys are up against a mummy . This one had the better plot of the two mummy movies , but the sequel had the better action so I like them about the same . This one has them discovering the lost city and awakening the mummy from his sleep . He starts out all rotted , but as he kills the group that awoke him he regains his former body . Brendan Fraser is rather good in this one as the hero . The rest of the cast does rather good too , though no real big name stars were used in the other roles . Some pretty good special effects too , though they are definitely not the best ever witnessed on the big screen . This movie is just an old-fashioned action movie though so it works . The scenes in the pyramids and stuff were better than the tomb raider movie was . . . in fact this one was more like the tomb raider games than the tomb raider movie was . Some comedy is also thrown into the mix as well . All an all a well-rounded adventure movie .
A nice little tomb raideresque adventure .	In fact , in this movie the last place they go looks more like something you would find in a tomb raider game than anything in the tomb raider movies . This was a nice little film , not overly great , but it was entertaining . The movie focuses on Cage's character Ben Gates as he tries to follow clues to one of the largest treasures ever . The main one being on the back of the Declaration of Independence . Of course , Cage's character is not the only one after the treasure so is a former ally who will stop at nothing to receive the riches himself . This character is played by Sean Bean . As usual he plays the villain very well . Also , look for Jon Voight as Cage's dad and Harvey Keitel as a FBI agent I think after Cage . The movie has some action , some comedy . . . it never gets really violent are anything , but you could probably tell that from the fact it is rated pg . Could have used maybe some more action , it could have also been a bit less talky in parts , but overall it is enjoyable and everyone in it plays their part well .
A rather unique film that goes here and there .	This movie is rather good , though a bit confusing at the same time . However , once you learn the time line it makes a bit more sense . Unlike the American version , this movie really does not flow in a conventional sense . Going here and there , at some points you are wondering , " hey isn't that person already dead ? " Still , that is just what makes this movie unique , it does something different , unlike the American version which was more of a typical movie . This one also doesn't try to give you all the whys and how's , but rather let's you figure them out . The focus , if there was one , seems to be on this one girl coming to the house as a favor . She is a nursing student or something , the equivalent of the Gellar character in the American version . The only reason I say she is the focus is that she seems to be in the movie the most . Besides the ghosts that is . The movie plays out by giving you a character's name and then showing what has happened with them after being inside the house . All in all a rather fun fright flick , but don't see it expecting to be given all the answers to what is happening , I still don't get the peek a boo part .
Pretty good , but who are the villians ?	And that is my main gripe of this flick . It starts out simple enough with one group in command of the earth's resources and a rebel faction that is trying to stop them . This is pretty much the whole movie with some of the rebels being a little more radical than others . They fight these people who seem to be in a cult that worships Rhodos . This giant spaceships at the beginning crash into earth and suck up all the natural resources . Are they Rhodos ? The movie implies this , but never really says . At the end the hero of the story makes some surprising discoveries and has many adventures and this is what makes this film good . Though also at the end this fairy appears and is apparently the bad guy and she is definately not the Rhodos thing so some of this is just a bit confusing . Overall though it is pretty entertaining and it has a good ending , except for the fact I was left wondering what happend to the crew of the one sandship .
Makes me wish I could play part II and III .	Yes , I played the first game and this one . I missed out on part two and three which is a bit sad as I apparently miss LeChuck as a zombie and demon . I also missed the amusement park and I am sure there were quite a few funny moments and puzzles to be had there . This one is rather funny too , and a rather straight forward kind of game . I really only had difficulty in one section and that is only because I was pushing the wrong button like an idiot . Speaking of idiots , Guybrush Threepwood is back and after a brief skirmish out on the high seas he and his wife return home to find out someone has taken over as governor of the island . There is an Australian making fools of the pirates when they do the insult sword duel and he seems to have an evil scheme . The local bar has become a nice little restaurant where you get your meal served to you on a conveyor belt , you get to go to a cool place and try to out cliff dive some dude , and you of course end up once again at Monkey Island ! So lots of comedy bits , the game progresses rather smoothly to be sure with very little thinking needing to be done to get by most of the puzzles . A little more challenge could have helped a bit , and maybe some various endings or something but all in all an amusing game .
Once again the Pink Panther is stolen and there is only one man who could possibly retrieve it . . .	but that man is busy so the French send Inspector Closseu . Well actually the plot has the famous diamond stolen once again and the country where the diamond is from insists on the inspector to be the one on the case which of course once again starts the chief inspector Dryfeuss down a long road of painful incidents and bad mental health . The movie is a very funny entry to the series as are all the movies that actually have Peter Sellers in the movie and not as simple stock and leftover footage . This one though is not quite as good as say Revenge or Shot for me mainly because the movie at times focuses on the phantom who is seemingly framed for the theft of said pink panther diamond . These scenes at times seem more fitting for a James Bond movie rather than a movie in the Pink Panther set . However , for the most part we have the focus of the flick on Closseu as he is led around following a decoy so the phantom can figure the real culprit . This of course takes him to a couple of places all the while driving Chief inspector Dryfeuss literally nuts .
A Warlock comes to the 20th century to undo creation itself .	This movie is really a rather good horror movie . Julian Sands plays the title character sentenced to die in the 18th or 19th century . He gets a reprieve when some sort of storm seems to take him away . Unfortunately for him a young man whose wife or girlfriend was murdered by the Warlock follows and they both end up in the 20th century . The Warlock is after a book that when used can undo creation while the young man wants the Warlock dead . Along the way a girl gets involved , and she helps the young man . This movie has some horror in and some action and is very fast moving and very exciting . Not too many dull scenes in this one . I liked the scenes where they knew there was a Warlock so the old farmer painted on a barn a symbol so the dude after the Warlock was able to find him . He then puts nails in the Warlock's footsteps and it hurts him . There were a couple of sequels to follow , but this one was by far the best .
One intense family road trip .	I have never seen the original movie by Wes Craven , I want to though , but I am guessing that one is going to be a more realistic movie while this one ramped up the violence and the mutation on our radioactive desert family . What we get is a rather intense movie that once our innocent family has an accident in the middle of nowhere the film does not let up . It also made me want to get a German Shepard doggy . So the story is basically a family are driving I am guessing cross country or something in a rather old motor home . . . the type that gets pulled along by a truck . They make a stop at a gas station and things go wrong when the creepy attendant tells them of a shortcut when he fears one of the family members sees something they should not . Well this sets them along a dirt road which you never take no matter how good of a short cut it is and they get eight flat tires , what is the chances of that happening ? Well now our family is stuck in the middle of the desert to bicker and such , but not for long as they are being stalked by some folks out in the desert hills . There are some rather brutal scenes to follow as I really felt for the family , and I wanted nothing more than to see those responsible pay . Which is much better in a horror movie than that group of thoroughly obnoxious people that you want to die in horrible ways . So be prepared for a lot of gruesome killings and one heck of a dog in this very hard core horror movie . Something about the stranded traveler horror movie I usually like .
Jack Sparrow returns , though not nearly enough for my tastes .	On par with Dead Man's Chest , not as good as the first part three still offers a very wild ride . The main problem , I have never had a harder time trying to keep up with so many double crosses and under the table deals as I did in this movie . Everyone had a hidden motive it seemed even Will Turner who in the last movie was just a trusting dupe . I can not believe no one seems to have the problems with this story as they did with Spidey 3 which I found very easy to follow . Add to that the fact that Captain Jack Sparrow , the sole character who made this series is not in it much and you have the disappointment of part two all over again . Granted it was not a huge disappointment , it was a good movie and it was great seeing Geoffrey Rusch back as Barbossa so it did get points for that . The story , this is going to be the hard part , however , I am keeping it as simple as possible . The gang is going in search for Jack , all with differing reasons . Jack is banished to Davey Jones locker and is going a bit crazy . There is a rescue and now there is a pirate meeting to attend , something about a song , a vengeful sea spirit named Calypso and various other obstacles leading to what I have to say is one heck of an action packed conclusion that is packed with great special effects . So there you have it , sure it could use a trimming of the run time as it goes on a while , but it still manages to entertain . I would have liked to see a simpler story though with a bit more comedy as there are some chuckle scenes , just nothing all that super funny like in the first . It was also surprising to see the villain from the last movie Davey Jones play basically a very small role till the very end during the uber action scene . Characters seemingly not all that important in the last film are now somewhat the focal point and you see Keith Richards in a small role as well . So as you can see there is a bit much going on and if there were a sequel to be made I say no Will or Elizabeth , bring back Barbossa , and have Jack Sparrow in it more and keep the plot more lighthearted and simple .
One of Arnold's best .	This one has soldiers attacking a base of rebels or terrorist or something . After they hit the base though the fun begins as this creature from outer space is tracking them through the thick jungles . It kills them one by one , hunting them . The army men led by Arnold try to set traps for the creature , but no matter what they do the creature always is one step ahead and one tough critter . The fact that this movie was such a hit is a bit of a surprise . . . in fact how good it was is a surprise too . They had so much trouble shooting this one , almost all the predator shots had to be done again as the original Predator looked really bad . . . it was played by Jean Claude Van Dame . They got a really tall actor to take his place and it worked a lot more as this one towers over Arnold and made the final fight great . The design of the monster's face changed a lot too , as the original looked really stupid , more like a mosquito or something from a bad science fiction movie of the 50's . In the end though this one turned out great and the finale is one of the best . Arnold facing off against a giant , ugly , super space alien hunter .
Not beyond good , but good nonetheless .	The critics loved this game and so I thought I would buy it . In the end it was a rather good and original game . The only two problems I have with it is the fact it is too short and the ending is a bit lacking . The rest of the game is rather fun though and rather easy to pick up and varies as well . You control Jade , a gal who watches over these orphans at a lighthouse . Why are they orphans , well an alien race has come to this particular planet full of all sorts of weird aliens and is causing havoc by abducting its citizens and such . A military group is on the planet to protect it , but they seem to have issues as well . Well you must guide Jade through this planet searching for the truth and you even become a sort of photographer for a group committed to exposing the truth . So this for me was the best portion of the game as you must sneak in these facilities and take pictures . You are also awarded for taking pictures of the various alien life forms on the planet . You do some fighting , and it is rather easy to perform , but stealth also plays a key role in the game . You will also use a hovercraft to reach areas and win races and a spaceship late in the game . So there a various things to do . Still though it wraps up way to soon , and the ending doesn't really overwhelm . Still though , it is different from all the sequels and such that come massive waves .
My personal favorite military comedy movie .	This movie is a very funny comedy starring a rather great cast . Bill Murray is the headliner and Ramis is also rather good too . Backing them up are an assortment of goof balls including the late John Candy in one of his better roles . The story , guy is having a bad go of it at the job and his social life . So what does he decide to do ? Well he joins the army of course and even manages to convince a friend of his to join him . Well the army is not quite what either of them expect as they seemed to be in a set of the worst recruits ever . . . not that they are any better and a bunch of funny scenes ensue including the introduction scene where you learn some of the guys motivations for entering the army including weight loss and one guy who figured he would be eventually drafted anyway even when there is no more draft . Plenty of great training , a bar scene involving a mud wrestling arena and a heroic rescue . Of course , the movie is at its funniest during the training scenes and their adjustments to army life . The last part of the film seems kind of stuck on to extend the movie a bit longer . Not that it is bad , just not up to the first two thirds of the film .
The prince makes his way on the next generation consoles .	Well not entirely true , the " Two Thrones " game for some reason was released on the Wii , and technically that prince is not in this game . However , the series has reached the newest consoles and I applaud their first effort that is rather good , though part three in the series is still the best one I have played . The story has a new guy lost in the desert searching for his donkey who has all the gold he got from a previous adventure . This character is by no means a prince , rather he is an adventurer who is about to get tangled up in a very difficult ordeal involving a princess . Well he meets a princess being pursued by men and he steps in . Which could be considered a mistake , however this leads him on a quest with the princess to revive lands in a kingdom tainted by a dark god . Once all the lands in this kingdom are healed the dark god who is threatening to escape will be imprisoned securely once more . There is more to it than that , including why the bonds holding this dark god are breaking in the first place , but if you play the game you shall learn yourself . Most of the game is the acrobatics one is used to from the last three games in this series . You do a number of climbs , jumps , and figure puzzles during this quest . The fights , while not many in number though are the highlight as they are very cinematic in nature and really fun when you hit a good combo . Do not worry about dying as I did not die the entire game . The princess sees to it your character stays alive and this may seem to make the game less challenging the thought of doing some of those lands without here make me cringe . You would be seeing a lot of game over screens that is for sure . The characters are good too as the prince is rather funny and has a better personality than the last one . You get to have some rather humorous exchanges between he and the princess . The problems in the game are just enough to make this game score an eight . One , it gets a tad repetitive when you have to go through the same area a couple of times to collect orbs . The ending is obviously setting up a sequel and is kind of irritating as you went through a whole lot to have the prince do what he does . It also just does not feel epic enough in areas as the end credits are a bit disappointing compared to part 1 and 3 from the previous games . There could have been a bit more enemies to fight as well as you kind of have to fight the same ones over and over . Still a good first effort so I hope this one does well enough so I can see how this story continues .
Nicely done fantasy romance comedy movie .	This movie has a grandfather reading to his grandson , and we get to see the story he is reading unfold before our eyes . Rather good movie that entertains in so many ways . The cast is excellent , even Andre the Giant is very good in this one . Turns out he is the only wrestler that can act . The story is fast moving and has some nice twists and surprises along the way , they surprised me the first time I saw this one ( I won't give anything away though ) . What made this film good for me though was that it contained quite a lot of humor and it really worked well . I loved Cary Elwes delivery and Patinkin was also very good in his role too . Billy Crystal and Carol Kane also make memorable appearances in this one . Though one of my favorite scenes has to be when Cary's character has a battle of wits with the one guy . One of the funnier scenes I found in this one . There are also nice set designs like in the fire swamp . The periodic interruptions also work , as they never let you forget that it is a simple story being read by a grandfather . Good movie all around and fun to watch .
Over the top violence and lots of bullets even gore . . . of course I thought it was good .	Yes , the guy who did this movie would later make Starship Troopers , here though I think is a more realistic take on a future society . A rather violent society , a place where the average cop just is not enough so they try to make a super cop . First , they try a totally robotic one with very deadly yet somehow darkly comic results . Since this one fails another person gets to try it his way and they make this robotic cop using the remains of an officer who is simply gunned down in a most brutal and unpleasant way . So the officer goes out on his beat and takes out criminals very effectively albeit a bit emotionless . His former partner though jogs his memory and all hell breaks loose at a factory where we have a very cool fight that even involves a dude getting toxic waste on himself . Then you have a conclusion that while not as great as the factory fight is still rather cool and a bit funny as well . So there you have it , Peter Weller does a rather good job as Robocop , Nancy Allen is okay too , but nothing special . Good villains too , but I can not really say if I remember seeing them in other movies other than Ronny Cox as if has been awhile since I have seen this movie . Though as a kid I thought this movie was the bomb as I saw it at the theater . Did not care for the fake commercials in it though .
Overall entertaining	This Bond flick is pretty entertaining , but it probably had more relevance back when it was first put out than it does today . SPECTRE is capturing US and Russian space ships to try to get both sides to go to war against each other . Britan feels the mysterious ship that captures the two countries rockets took off from Japan . So James Bond is sent on the case , but he is then apparently killed , though this is not really so , it is staged to try and throw people off ( hence the title ) . The movie has some really entertaining scenes as Bond goes through Japan to solve the case which leads him to an island and a volcano base and Blofeld the mysterious leader of SPECTRE played superbly here by Donald Pleasence . Some of the effects in this one are kinda bad and some of the story could use some work , but all in all an enjoyable flick .
Best of the small creature attack movies .	After this movie there were several other movies that tried to capitalize on the success of this movie . For the most part though they failed to live up to the energy and fun of this movie . Heck , not even the sequel of this one had the energy of this movie . Here we have a guy getting a pet as an early xmas gift , a cute creature called a Mogway . It however , does have a few problems , as it needs special care . One thing you can't do to it is get it wet . Well Billy does ( that is the guy who got it ) . This breeds more of the little critters , and they are harmless enough at first as well . Then they are fed after midnight and this turns them into Gremlins . This new form is a beer drinking , candy eating , mischief machine that isn't above killing . Most of the original batch is killed off in a gruesome kitchen scene , but the leader , Stripe , gets away and dives into a ycma swimming pool , so the whole town gets overrun by the little monsters . This movie is very funny and enjoyable to watch . Even though the Gremlins do kill , this movie never gets as dark as some of the copycats , or too goofy like some of them do . It ends up being a well-made movie that is fun to watch .
Good game featuring many marvel characters .	Basically a semi sequel to the x-men legend games , this game has a massive team of heroes working together to stop Dr . Doom's evil plans . The heroes have their varying strengths and weaknesses as was the case in the legends games . Though I have to admit , I was a bit disappointed in the fact that strength was ignored in that you could not really lift anything big . Still , you had your far away type attackers , your attackers best suited for close combat and those who were rather good at both . You can mix up your teams and if you happen to put a particular team together you can get a boost to a stat ( putting all the members of the fantastic four together for example ) . Of course , you have your favorites that you use best , for me it was Spider-man and Deadpool , and you have your characters you wish were here but are not . . . Cyclops and the Hulk . There are plenty of villains to fight as well as you have Dr . Doom , Arcade , Ultron , and many others . The game is not perfect , as some of the levels are very repetitive and playing this just makes me want to play a more conventional role playing game with the super heroes . . . still it is fun and fast paced . And from the ending I would wager there will be a sequel .
Yay ! ! ! No searching in this one .	This Wild Arms game was an improvement for me over part three . This and part three are the only ones I have played thus far . The main problem in that one is the constant searching for your next locale . That is absent here . What we get is a refreshingly straight forward role playing game with a rather short playing time compared to other games of the type these days . The story has a young boy whose simple life is interrupted when invaders come to his home . After meeting two other youths he is hurled into a world that is having a hard time recovering after a war and he and his friends must be on the run constantly to escape an army after Yulie , a girl with mysterious powers . Jude too , has powers , the power to wield arms . The story is good , however , it is somewhat sad as the four friends must endure a lot on their travels . There is not much backtracking to be done either as you really don't have to opportunity to revisit certain locations till nearly the end of the game . The fighting is done in an arena type setting as your characters can move about the field and encircle enemies and such . For the most part the fighting is very quick as unlike other role playing games even the bosses take a fairly short period of time to kill . This game also has a nifty feature that lets you continue a fight you lose rather than having to go back to your last save . Wild Arms 3 also featured this somewhat , but it was limited to a certain item you had . The leveling is different too as you level up your powers and your hp and fp by gaining points and distributing them to your liking . So all and all a rather good game that will keep your attention for a while .
The lesson here , don't read mysterious cards in the graveyard then dance .	A rather good offering of horror and the supernatural to behold . Think a better version of the remake of " The Haunting " with a bit of " The Entity " thrown in as well . The movie revolves around a group of three friends who are in mourning for the recent loss of a friend . One of the group wants to go to the cemetery at night to mourn the friend by drinking and talking with his other two college buds . Of course , you know in a movie of this type that is a mistake and is going to lead to the cause of the problem . Well not entirely , the one friend finds a type of card on their friend's grave , with a bit of a poem celebrating life on it , one of course does this by dancing on graves and yes this is the start of the spooky stuff as the title does imply . So what we have is our three friends seemingly being haunted , minimally at first and it progresses worse and worse as the movie goes on . Paranormal investigators are brought in to try and help and one of them is really helpful , the other not so much . I won't tell you which one is which , but I will tell the female one is really cute . I love a girl with black hair and kind of a bookish look to her . You will have to wait a bit for some kills , but that is okay as the movie has a good enough story to overcome this . It isn't all perfect as there is a bit of confusion as to why the letter is set on the grave in the first place though I do suppose it adds a hint of mystery to the flick . Just like the poor unfortunate girl who is shown at the beginning . Some of the effects at the end were a bit cheesy as well , however , this can be forgiven too because I doubt this movie had a very big budget . I can say though that the spooks looked rather good .
Review writing . . . now on espn 9 .	This was a funny comedy once again featuring Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn . . . the other being Starsky and Hutch released the same year . This one though basically has their roles reversed as Vaughn plays an every man gym owner and Stiller plays a fitness and appearence obsessed gym owner . Stiller's character wants Vaughns gym and Vaughn needs money so this is where dodgeball comes in . This movie is also kind of a spoof of those old 80's comedy where in the end it comes down to a tournament or race to save the day . Lots of goofball antics ensue , with a lot of hits to the crotch , but hey it works here . Dodgeball was always a bit of a cruel game so might as well show how it is . Vaughn is great as are the rest of his team of misfits , and Stiller is kind of bizarre in his role , but it works . Lots of strange cameos in this one as well , and what was up with the pirate ? Still though this movie made me laugh and was a lot better than other comedies I have seen , though I liked Starsky and Hutch a bit better .
Came up with a rather bizarre movie that differs greatly from the story it was taken from .	Arnold stars as a wrongly convicted federal criminal who escapes a futuristic prison . Once out he promptly is recaptured and put on a television show called the Running Man . A show where one must make his way through a labyrinth being pursued by trackers that include a chainsaw wielding maniac to a hockey playing sumo . It makes for an entertaining ride though it differs greatly from the Richard Bachman novel from which it came from ( aka Stephen King ) . In that story there was no game show arena , rather you just went to the outside world trying to elude the trackers as best you could and the longer you kept hidden from them the more money your family got . Here it is different and look who is in it . With Arnold you need larger than life villains to go against him and also of note is Richard Dawson who is actually rather good as the host of the demented show . Let's face it though , he isn't exactly differing drastically from what he used to do all the time . So what do you get here ? Lot's of action and wham bam finish and a little social commentary thrown in for good measure . You also get an entertaining movie that won't keep you on the edge of your seat , but will pass some time in a fun way .
A Godzilla meltdown ! ! !	In this one , Godzilla is apparently about to blow up . He is more powerful , but after awhile this build up is going to explode . If this wasn't bad enough , some creature has evolved from the chemical that killed the original Godzilla . So lets just say there is a lot happening here . Somehow though this new beast may be able to stop the reaction in Godzilla so the Japanese first lure the son of Godzilla to fight this creature called Destroyah and this of course lures Godzilla to the fight as well . In the end it is a pretty good fight and the effects aren't to bad , but they are still not great . The ending to this is somewhat of a downer , but seeing Godzilla meltdown was pretty cool .
Good in the fact you are once again mainly in tombs , but this one gets to difficult at times .	Yes , this one is like the first tomb raider , as you are mainly in dark underground tombs and temples . Its main drawback is the fact that this one can get really tough at times , and get really annoying fast . Whereas the first one is rather straight forward , this one will have you going here and there at times , and doubling back . Still , it is fun in that I like the whole Egyptian setting . . . as nearly all the action in this one takes place in pyramids and desert tombs . No military bases or stuff of that nature here . Larau must stop the awakening of a god , or it could spell the end of all humanity . The controls are basic tomb raider , as is the story . This time her foe is an old mentor , and if you have seen any type of special on tomb raider you will recognize him as the original star of this series of games , before they decided to go with pretty Laura in the lead instead . Good choice . So be prepared for multiple enemies , lots and lots of traps , and a lot of dark areas where you must use flares . You will also get to drive a jeep this time around too , and there is a train scene to enjoy as well . Granted some of the puzzles and areas this time around are really going to annoy you at times .
Not as good as the first one thanks mainly to the large shift in game play .	Yes , in this one you go from your standard platform type game to a game where Jak does not only kill enemies with spin attacks , but also with guns . He also steals hover vehicles and takes them for a spin . Why the sudden shift ? Easy , Grand Theft Auto III came out and a lot of games took this sort of free roaming shift . Not that it is bad here , I just prefer the way the first one moved better . This one does pick up where the first one left off . Jak , Daxter , Keira , and Samos the sage have put together some device and it transports them to a future world to a city called Haven City . This place is bad news , Jak is found and taken prisoner and is kept prisoner when Daxter finally comes to the rescue . You then must do various missions throughout the very large city ranging from fetch quests , chases , and re con missions to try to take power back from the one who now rules Haven City . Jak now shoots a gun with different forms of ammo and you even get a skateboard that you can use in a type of skate course or throughout your travels in this huge city . This one though has some missions that are cuss and hair pulling inducing . Some of the chase scenes within the city is maddening thanks to a very filled street . I mean there are so many hover crafts and they do not move out of your way . You also never get any more health during these missions which adds to the frustration . However , the story here is good as is the game play . . . it is a shame they felt they had to take the game into a new direction , but they do a relatively good job getting it there .
A very good action movie . . . just not much of a plot .	I enjoyed this movie for the most part , it went by quick and was almost entirely action . However , the plot could have used a lot of work . Not the best put together movie I have ever seen and I would not think it would be that hard to put these horror legends together and have a credible plot , but I just did not care for Dracula's big plan . James Bond villains have better plans than the one we were presented with here . Still though the action was great and Hugh Jackman was good in the title role , though I would take Peter Cushing over him as my personal favorite . I wish they had cast someone bigger in the Dracula role though , the guy they got was okay , but Oldman was better in the role than the one we get here . Sure I know you can not use Christopher Lee anymore , but someone a touch more big in Hollywood would have been better . But then there are not really all that many big stars for horror movies like there were back in the day . My best advice is that if you liked the Mummy movies then you are more likely to like this one because they are similar . If you did not like them then I know you will not like this one so skip it . It is also best just to turn your brain off and just enjoy the action .
I enjoyed it , but it isn't for everyone .	This movie isn't going to be the huge success some thought , but I really enjoyed it myself . The problem is the serious tone almost throughout the movie and the fact it takes awhile for the Hulk to make an appearance . Myself , I thought the story was great and interesting enough for me to be entertained , but I don't see this one being universally loved . Nothing wrong with those who don't like it , it just isn't a movie that is going to appeal to everyone . It did me , and I just hope it does well enough to warrant a sequel as it is sure to contain the Abomination , and trust me more people would love it . This one though is set up and serious set up at that . In fact older people may be more inclined to enjoy this than younger ones who need explosions every two minutes . The CGI looks rather good , not groundbreaking . . . for me though it was acceptable . The close ups are great and those who have been complaining since day one could at least say the close up shots of the Hulk were very well done . Sam Elliot is very good as General Ross , as is the entire cast . I gave this one a 9 , only because I thought the end was a bit anticlimactic especially after the desert fights and the San Francisco scenes . All in all though I thought it was a good ride , but if a more serious comic book movie doesn't appeal to you I would skip it . . . if though you feel you can accept a more serious movie by all means this is the one you should come to .
Hey pretty cool .	I enjoyed this flick . Sure it wasn't the best movie made and it surely would not win an award , but it was a fun film . There are a couple of the Godzilla movies in the 90's I liked more , but this one did not disappoint . The dubbing is rather good for everyone except the guy who is trying to kill Godzilla . He sounds a bit to deep voiced and at one point when he laughs he goes " Ha , Ha , Ha " , but other than him the dubbing is good . There is also a bit of dead zone where godzilla isn't around between godzilla's first encounter the flying saucer and the final battle , but it is not to bad . Also , they kind of ignore the movie Godzilla vs . Destroyah even though they show Godzilla's son taking over the reigns this fact is ignored and all the characters from the 90 films are ignored as well . All and all it is a fun movie and there is a good battle at the end .
Not as good as the previous two Shadow Heart games , but good game nonetheless .	This is by far the lightest of the three Shadow Heart games being that it contains a lot of humor . Nearly all of the dark edge and Gothic look from the previous installments is gone replaced by Amazon ninjas and giant cats . The judgment ring is back and as good as ever . However , this time there are add ons to the battles I did not care for called double attacks . The problem with these is that the enemy is more efficient at using them than you are and this just makes the game a bit harder than I like my role playing games to be . It also makes the enemy turns longer too , which I always hate the enemy turn to take forever . Still , it did not detract from the game all that much . The story is okay too , just not as good as the other two . Johnny Garland is a boy detective living with somebody you will recognize from the previous game . He is waiting for a big case and gets it from a creepy man named Gilbert and boy does it turn out to be a big case as he must team up with a wild assortment of characters to track down a mysterious person only called lady and her accomplice Killer . During the way you will also meet an old friend and visit many locales . However , later in the game to many of these locales end up being old temples so you just don't have all the cool locations of the first two games . Yuri is also gone and is no where to be seen and that is a shame , I kept hoping for some type of appearance . So all in all a good entry , it is just after the spectacle that was part two , this one just is not very spectacular .
A better title would have been " The Day the Earth Froze " , but I already think that title has been used .	First off , this movie was better than I was expecting . A nice disaster film with some rather good story and great special effects . Sure it is a bit unrealistic , the type of disasters shown here could not take place in our life time without massive volcanic eruptions , but hey it is a movie so it is best to watch and enjoy and not worry about the scientific facts . The cast is rather good as Dennis Quaid turns in one of his better performances . I just wish Ian Holm had a bigger part in this one . As for the effects , as I said before they were great . I also enjoyed the story although there was one unresolved plot point involving the one guy's brother in Philly . The first half of the film shows the beginnings of the super storm and the second half is more of a rescue mission over the frozen areas of the United States . The movie could have shown the effects of the storm on a few more countries as it tended to only show the United States and of course as in any disaster flick there tends to be a rather pointless subplot that never really goes anywhere . . . here it was a boy with cancer . All in all though I enjoyed it more than I was expecting , I was just wanting to go to the movies and it was either this or Shrek 2 .
Fun simple game in the mold of a Zelda .	From the score here I can see it is not exactly a well loved game , but I found it rather fun and funny . Granted it does contain faults , but so many games of this type do as most of these games that sort of mirror the Zelda series and one of the ones most common is the fact they are always a bit short . This one also has the problem of a rather bad ending which the sequel to this one also shares . The story has this kingdom being attacked by an evil empire . The princess of the kingdom in a last ditch effort tries to summon a brave warrior and what she gets is a rather small samurai in training . So Musashi must find a sword , free some of the citizens of the castle from some sort of crystal prisons , find other swords that have different elemental powers , find strange sheep creatures that somehow increase health , fight a very determined rival , collect toys , help the local townsfolk with certain tasks , and climb a really big tower to save the princess . So there is a lot of things to do , but it still not the longest game . It has challenges , however you will find most boss fights are easy once you figure out the secret to beating them as is the final boss fight . The toy collecting part of the game was rather pointless , the day and night was also a bit of a pain , but then very few games that incorporate the day and night stuff do it so that it is not a pain . Work out the kinks and this would be a really great game , as it is it is a rather good game .
" Rear Window " with a vampire .	This is a comedy horror , and as it turns out it is one of the good comedy horror movies . This one is about a guy who watches vampire movies and one day some new people move in the house next to him . Suffice to say they do things a little differently . Yes , one of them turns out to be a vampire and of course nobody believes the guy . So his friends worry about him and turn to a person he worships the perfectly cast Roddy McDowell as an old film star of old vampire movies . This one has some comedy in it , but I would say it is more of a horror movie . There are some rather good effects and there is some gore though nothing all that bad . It moves rather predictably , you will not be surprised all that much , but it works rather well . I love Roddy in the movie and he adds to it quite well as do the rest of the cast . It is worth a look if you like horror movies and vampire ones .
A fun Spidey game on the Playstation .	This game is fun and it has a plot that you could actually expect to see in the comics . Spider-man has been framed by a mysterious impostor . The city is being overrun by a strange gas , and symbiotes like those of Venom and Carnage are appearing all over the city . Who is behind these crimes ? Could it be Doc Ock ? Well he seems to have turned over a new leaf . Venom also does not seem to be involved as he is just ticked off that Spider-man has apparently cost him a rather good photo opportunity . Well cameos from other heroes and lots of villains later Spidey will unravel the mystery . The fighting is basic , not to hard to pick up , the fights with the bosses are rather fun . You get to collect comics , you run out of web and it is somewhat fun traversing the city . However , that is also a weak point . The swinging is not all that great as all you do is hover through the city as Spider-man seemingly attachés his webs to the sky . You also do not have much maneuverability web-slinging either especially compared to a say Spider-man 2 movie video game . Still , it makes up for the rather bad swinging with the other elements especially the story . So be prepared to see Scorpion , Rhino , Venom , Mysterio , Doctor Octopus , and Carnage for one wild action packed ride .
For me it was back to form with this one .	I found " Leathal Weapon 3 " a bit disappointing . As it usually goes I go against the crowd in that I like this one a lot better than three . The action is great , there is a good villain , and there is a lot of comedy with fewer scenes where the movie seems to be trying to make you depressed . Murtaugh and Riggs are getting older and it is starting to show . Their new opponent a super butt kicking member of the Chinese mob trying to get his brother over to the US . This movie starts out with a bang as an insane pyromaniac is burning up the town , then the story goes to the whole Chinese story . The comedy is great as Chris Rock makes for an excellent new character and the dentist scene is very funny . The action includes a very good car chase and numerous fight scenes with the highlight being between our heroes and a very ticked off Jet Li character . This fight alone made the movie worth it as it is very exciting and you really worry for our two officer's lives . It is not perfect , however , as once again it sort of has more of a television episode feel rather than a theatrical movie , but it still doesn't take away from the enjoyment I got from this film .
Terror in the Water .	This is not a gruesome gory zombie movie , but it is a very good horror movie all the same . The plot is about some vacationers out on a boat just cruising when the boat breaks down . They go to a near by island while out in the ocean dead nazi zombies rise with the sole intention of killing those that get in their way . These zombies are not after flesh , blood , or brains they just kill you cold heartily . Peter Cushing plays a hermit with a secret and John Carradine plays a captain , both are in the movie far to short a time , however . Other than that it is a highly entertaining flick that is more like a 50's or 60's horror though a bit more graphic . Just goes to show not all good horror films have to have an " R " rating to be good .
How come he didn't have his finger missiles ?	This one was really good . . . I finally saw it after many missed chances . This Godzilla movie had more action than some of the other ones made in the 90's and it also had multiple battles as well . This special force has made a robot version of Godzilla to protect Japan from the real one . Complications arise as a giant flying dinosaur also appears as well as a strange egg . The flying dinosaur seems to be Rodan , but they call it Radon here . Maybe this is what it was meant to be called back in the days ? The egg ends up being a baby Godzilla and scientist stupidly bring it into a city and of course not only does Godzilla come for it , but so does Radon . MechaGodzilla though pretty much tears Godzilla apart in their first meeting using its various weapons ( I was disappointed when it did not have its finger missiles like the one from the earlier movies ) , unfortunately it malfunctions and it can not continue the fight . They devise a new plan that involves another ship to combine with MechaGodzilla to form a Super-MechaGodzilla . There is also a rather dumb point of Godzilla having two brains and apparently the second one is in his butt ( no joke ) . All in all a really good Godzilla flick with just a couple of flaws . Lots of action as well .
Rather good vampire flick .	It has its bad points , but for the most part I liked this title , which is more of a comedy than a horror . Bruce Campbell as Van Helsing is pretty funny to watch in this one and the rest of the cast does a good job as well . The tale is about an all vampire town that is tired of killing so they actually have been able to create a synthetic blood with the help of this one guy who doesn't know they are vampires . Something goes wrong with the machine so the guy who made it comes to town to fix it . . . unfortunately the town has malcontents who want to go back to the day of drinking real blood rather than the fact stuff . Van Helsing also arrives in town looking for Count Dracula who doesn't apparently live in the town . Like I said more comedy and action than horror . There are some flaws in the movie , but most of them have to do with the plot . Like why would these two teenagers join the vampires when one killed their friend ? There are a couple of other points like this , but it is best to just sit back and enjoy the show .
Gothic tale of the war between vampires and werewolves .	Rather good and sleek action / horror hybrid in the same vein as a Blade , though not quite up to that movie . The action is good , and the scenery is good to as the city setting seems very other worldly , a Gothic mixture of old and new . The story , there has been an ages old feud between werewolves and vampires , the vampires apparently winning as they are slowly but surely wiping the wolves out . However , there seems to be a new target of the wolves , a young doctor whose blood the wolves want for reasons that are not immediately clear . So there ya have it , throw in a lot of gun fire and some latex and you have your movie . There are problems with the film though as there are a lot of double crosses and I am still not one hundred percent clear as to what made the doctor dude so important . Still , there is plenty of action to watch and lots of blood too . It was funny seeing how the werewolves were a bit rough and the vampires looked like aristocrats . It was a bit hard to pull for either side until the end when all the motivations were on the table too , as neither side seemed really to be making a target of humans . So all in all a good action / horror flick .
The first in a rather good three set of games .	Yes , this is the first game in a three game set with the Warrior Within and the Two Thrones to follow . This one was really good , though for my money Thrones was the best . The weakest was Warrior Within . This one has the prince raiding a country for their treasure . One of these treasures is the dagger of time which is the main source of power for the prince during the game . The prince's father is killed and the sands of time unleashed as people in the kingdom are turned into sand monsters and such . The prince must navigate this world fighting the sand monsters and navigating steep cliffs and traps and such as he tries to put everything right . The dagger of time gives the prince powers too , as he can kill the sand monsters and do various things with time including rewinding it to avoid death . Speeding up time to kill enemies more quickly . See into the future to find out clues to navigate through certain ares and so forth . The best parts of the game to me were the levels where you had to do acrobatic wall runs and such to get through areas . Then other areas you had to fight . . . these areas were a bit more of a pain and less fun . Though the fighting became more fun once you got a certain sword as it was easier to kill the monsters . There is a lack of boss fights in this one that drag it down as I only recall the one at the end with the main villain . So incorporate the fighting and the acrobat levels a bit better and make the fights more fun and you have an even better game and for my money you have The Two Thrones .
Live action anime .	I actually like this one as much as the first Matrix movie . I know that it is sacrilege to say such things , but that is just how I feel . There is just something about this movie that appeals to me and it is the fact that it is just like a live anime movie . Much more so than the " Matrix " which other than a couple of points is not as much of an anime movie as some have made it out to be . Here the scenery and the characters and everything is very colorful like most animes are . We have the plot that goes here and there just like an anime . We have good looking gals that kick butt just like an anime . We are not sure who is the main villain just like a lot of animes and then there is the villain that seems really strong and looks like he is important to the plot who ends up being a non-factor ( Dolph's character ) just like in an anime . This one has Keanu as a courier who plants information in his head and delivers it . Only there is a snag of course and he ends up being chased by all sorts of characters . Lots of action and meetings occur with all of these people . It even ends like a lot of anime movies . . . a bit anticlimactic . Overall though I enjoyed it .
Rather good movie that kind of blends different genres .	Yes , this movie has a bit of everything in it . . . it is a buddy cop movie , a movie about opposites , a set up movie , an escape from prison movie and even a super truck infiltrates the enemy compound movie . You also get to see a rather good pairing of Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell , though I have to admit I have to say Kurt kind of steals the show a bit , but Sylvester does all right himself . So what we have here is two cops that are arresting people left and right , these cops do not really care for each other or work together , but they are busting the same guys . . . guys who work for a head honcho type . Well they get framed and sent to what they believe will be a minimum security facility , but the guy pulling the strings gets them sent to a maximum security place instead where a lot of the inmates know our two heroes quite well . They end up escaping and start searching for the one behind their setup . Good movie , rather good action and humor too . I love it when they get to the guy behind the fake voice recording and the good cop / bad cop routine with a grenade . Jack Palance plays the bad guy , and though he is okay his character is a bit underdeveloped . He also has a bit of an anti-climatic finish . Still , for the most part this movie is a hit as there just are not to many movies with super trucks in them now is there ?
Rather good except for a few plot holes .	This one has Vincent Price , Christopher Lee , and Peter Cushing getting the top billing in this one . The problem is that it is a tad misleading as I can easily name three other characters in this one who were in it a lot more than they were . Price was in it a bit more than the other two . Lee has a couple of scenes and is part of the plot . Cushing though only gets one scene and really does not have much of an impact on the story . Still though it was enjoyable as it seemed to show scenes here and there and at the end a lot of it is cleared up though I found there to be a couple of plot holes . Like what was up with those two people escaping ? What was the deal with that army that sort of resembled Nazis ? Why did the one killer apparently suck blood ? Still though it is a good and rather interesting movie to watch . You have the man who is in a hospital and from time to time he is missing something . You have the mysterious killer known as the vampire killer . You have the strange Nazi like army where one of its members kills by clamping on your shoulder . So many questions so little time . This one could have used an extra 15 minutes to explain more stuff .
Overcomes rather weak at times looking beasties with a good story about what fear and the unknown can do .	Yes , this movie has monsters in it . . . for the most part giant insects . They are , however , the weakest link in this film as they look only a bit better than say a creature from one of the sci-fi channel's original productions . I think they should have used computer generated graphics a bit less , especially when the creatures got a hold of something and this flaw could have been overcome easily enough . That being said , the story and the characters make this one and they make it rather good . I also have to agree with what is said on the DVD box . . . it does have a rather shocking ending and horrifying too . I hated it , yet I hated it not because it was bad , but because it did what a good horror movie is supposed to do , shock you and make you think about it thereafter . The story , nearly straight from the original short novel by Stephen King . The main differences was that there was not as much setup before the storm or during as there was in the story . That and the ending . Other than that and the military men playing a bit bigger role it is a very by the book movie . There is a storm and a father and son and neighbor go to the store to restock some groceries . However , there is a mist coming and it quickly envelopes the store and makes those inside hesitant to come out as a man runs wildly in the store talking of things in the mist that took someone . Well fear takes over as the father quickly figures out there is something about the mist and a scene of a brave , but foolhardy bag boy proves there is something in the mist . Unfortunately , not all those in the store believe this and even more unfortunately some people in the store believe this is the end of times brought on by an angry God . So paranoia and fear take a hold and general chaos is in the air . Played out very well , but man the ending . I am imagining Stephen King , the master of horror seeing it for the first time and saying " Damn , that is dark " ! Dark , disturbing , and very effective .
Rather good epic action adventure . . . though a better choice for the role of Robin Hood would not have hurt .	Not saying Kevin Costner was a bad choice , just that he was probably not the best choice for the role of Robin Hood . I also did not think Christian Slater was the best choice for his role either . Neither did a bad job , just not the best casting in the world . However , Alan Rickman was an absolutely perfect choice for the Sheriff of Nottingham . He was such a likable villain that I was almost pulling for him in the end . Morgan Freeman is also a very good member of this cast . His character adds some good humor as he is out of his native country for the first time . So the story goes like this , Robin Hood is fighting in the crusades and is captured . He escapes with a man back to his native England , only to find that in the king's absence certain individuals are taking advantage of this by having higher than normal taxes and stealing others of their powers by accusing them of crimes . So after a period of adjustment and a meeting with petty thieves in the woods Robin goes on the offensive by doing what Robin Hood always does , stealing from the rich and giving to the poor . Good action , rather funny scenes , and an entertaining finish with one of my favorite actors makes for a very memorable time .
A very good movie . . . but a bit overrated .	I gave this movie a solid 8 , but I definitely have seen plenty of movies that I have enjoyed more over the years . What gets me is all the people who act like this movie is so original . What is original about it ? It is basically a combination of the Terminator movies and any number of virtual reality movies that were released prior to this one including Johnny Mnemonic also starring Reeves . Heck , it wasn't even the first movie to use bullet time as the movie Blade was the first time I had seen that done in a movie , granted on a much smaller scale . Also , I think it was seen in a Korn music video as well before this movie ever came into being . So this movie just borrows , for the most part , from a bunch of different movies and other entertainment . Still it is good , though the parts that are the best take place in the matrix . Some of the real world scenes are quite frankly boring . The second time I watched this one I was basically thinking , " Come on , capture Morpheus already so we can get to the good part of the flick " . The action at the end of this movie , more than makes up for the many dry spells in the flick . Reeves and Fishburne are good as well , though I could have done without some of their talking scenes and their fight wasn't anything special either . Like I said , I loved the movie when they were in the matrix and not as much when they weren't . I hear the third installment will be entirely set in the real world too , so I don't have high hopes for it . Carrie Ann Moss wasn't anything special in this either . . . if it wasn't for this movie who would ever of heard of her ? Let's face it , you could have put anyone in that role and they could have performed just as well are better . She isn't very good looking either . All in all it is worth checking out cause of the great action at the end , and because Hugo Weaving is great as the villain .
Cushing and Lee . . . their the reason I watched this one .	I would normally not even attempt to watch a Sherlock movie , but seeing as how Peter Cushing was Sherlock and Lee was in it too I decided to give this one a try . Suffice to say I was not disappointed as both were very good in their respective roles as was the fellow who played Watson . This one has Sherlock investigating a curse that kills the head of a family named the Baskervilles . The next target is Lee's character after he inherits his uncle's house after his untimely death . The movie moves at a very brisk pace and is a bit predictable , but still executed very well ( though they never explained the doctors part in the movie ) . There is also a scene at the end I found rather amusing as Sherlock and a couple of others are standing on a hill and this person is sinking in quicksand . They don't really make much of a movie to save the person even though they clearly could . All in all though this one is a well acted move that was interesting to watch .
Good , but only because of Moore and Lee .	This Bond plot is probably one of the weakest , but thankfully Roger Moore and Christopher Lee turn in great performances that turn what would probably a rather average film into a pretty good one . An assasine has been seemingly sent to kill Bond , this part of the plot is good , but then there is this energy crisis plot involving this really good solar cell and other things that make this Bond of the weaker ones plot wise . Lee does a great job as the title character , but another problem with this movie is that throughout you are anticipating the showdown between Bond and the man with the golden gun and when it finally happens it is a bit of a let down . Also , the guy who played the sheriff in " Live and Let Die " is back and he is quite annoying . I still enjoy this movie though .
Loved this one as a kid .	This movie seems like it should be older to me , maybe 83 mainly because I can't believe it came out the same year as Ghostbusters and Gremlins and a host of other movies I saw that year . This movie is kind of a more realistic version of Spy Kids even though this one is a bit hard to believe in its own right . Still though it has good pacing and a rather good plot . The story revolves around a boy who has an imaginary friend called Jack Flack a character from this spy game the kid loves ( kind of a dungeons and dragons game ) . Not coincidentally , this character also resembles his dad ( both his dad and Jack Flack are played by Dabney Coleman ) . The kid gets his hands on a video game that has some sort of secret as this killers are on his tail to get the game back and they do kill people along the way . Kind of violent considering this one is geared toward to kids . This movie is also set in beautiful San Antonio , Texas a city I have visited in the past . So many of the sites within the movie I had actually been too .
Man this movie was like a Texas chainsaw massacre ! ! !	Yes , this was a horror movie that did what a horror movie is supposed to do when it comes to the slasher genre . It had lots of blood , lots of kills and was rather tense . The fact that Emory was in it and added actual good acting to this flick was a bonus . The story , the beginnings of the Leatherface killing spree . It showed how the family came to be and how some of them got their wounds in the last movie which is set after this one . The only thing not answered in this one from the last one is who the little boy was from that movie . The rest of the story is the basic Chainsaw premise of the two couples stranded in the middle of nowhere , this time a wreck the cause of the problem , a rather gruesome wreck . Well the newly self appointed sheriff comes by and of course this sets off a nasty set of circumstances that leads to lots of blood , some shootings , meat hooks , cannibalism and of course chainsaws . Once again , whereas the original movie was more realistic these last two are by far the most gory . The chainsaw is used a lot . This sequel , or rather prequel is also a lot better than the only sequel I ever saw to the original The Next Generation as that one wasn't very gory at all and itself was sort of a remake of the original . So if you go to this movie and you don't like it because of the violence and blood and stuff what do you expect from a movie with chainsaw and massacre in the title ?
I thought it was funnier than one , but then I have seen the Rambo movies .	Yes , I thought this one was funnier mainly because I have seen more of the movies this one has spoofed . I loved that Richard Crenna was in this one and I loved the fight scene spoofing the one seen in Rambo III . Charlie Sheen is back and still super funny , as is Lloyd Bridges who always makes a good choice for a spoof movie . The movie of choice here is the Rambo saga , mainly part two and three . You have a plot of a missing group of soldiers and they keep sending more in to seemingly get captured . Finally , Topper Harley is on the case going in with his own platoon to free the numerous hostages . So we get our various scenes making fun of the Rambo movies as these are the best . The ones before he sets off on his quest are not quite as good . I liked his first encounter with an old friend , the boat scene , and numerous others . The best for me was the scene when the kill counter was up and it became the bloodiest movie of all time ! ! ! It also has a great scene between Lloyd's character and a Sadaam look a like . So in the end if you have not seen the Rambo movies and a few other movies it will not be quite as funny as it was for me who had seen the majority of movies this one spoofs .
Rather good ghost story .	This movie was a rather good horror ghost story from 1982 . In fact , it was a pretty good horror movie considering it was rated PG . The story has a family who experience some strange going on's in their house . It starts off small enough with little things happening like chairs being rearranged and objects sliding across the floor . Unfortunately , these seemingly harmless happenings turn more horrific as a tree tries to eat their son , but this is just a distraction as the ghosts take the couples daughter to the spirit world . The couple has to turn to experts to help them get their daughter back . For some reason the daughter can be heard through the TV , especially on channels with static . This movie is good and fun to watch . Sure , none of the things depicted here are probably possible , but it is a movie . The finale is a bit over the top , but like I said . . . it is a movie , just have fun with it . The first part of the movie has rather good comedy as well and there are some more laughs scattered here and there through the movie . There is also a rather cool scene of a guy tearing off his face . What gets me though is the people who say this movie and its sequels is cursed . This is because four of the stars in the movie died . In the end though the gal who played the daughter was murdered , the Indian and the really old man were , well old , and the little girl died of complications of some illness . All these was just coincidences . If either Craig T Wilson or JoBeth Williams had died during these years instead of any one of the others you may have had a point .
This one was funny . . . and well weird .	This movie has two teens that are not the most popular of kids making a girl to fulfill their fantasies . They are indeed successful , but their creation ' Lisa ' has a bit more spunk than they could have hoped for and this provides some very funny moments and scenes . This movie is a great 80's comedy and features cool music and a rather good cast . Kelly LeBrock is great as Lisa , but my favorite character has to be Chet , played brilliantly by Bill Paxton . Every scene he is in is very funny and worth the watch . The movie though is packed with funny scene after funny scene . Of particular interest to anyone who likes the movie " The Road Warrior " is the scene where the bikers crash the party . I do believe the lead biker is in fact the same one from that movie . This movie is filled with surprises also , and it is just worth a look .
Captain Jack Sparrow is back and he has a debt to pay . . .	This rather good movie as sequel to the sleeper hit Pirates of the Caribbean : the curse of the Black Pearl is not as good as its predecessor . Of course , this time it isn't a surprise as was the first one , it also has a very choppy flow to it that doesn't help . The plot goes here and there , to many characters introduced when all we came to see ( well most of us anyway ) is Captain Jack . Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightly return too and there is to much focus on them for my tastes , don't get me wrong they need to be in it , but more Jack please . Still you get action in the form of a rather cool sword fight in a water wheel , an aquatic sea monster attack , and other scenes like this and you get your comedy , the best bit coming near the start of the movie where Jack and his crew are in the clutches of a group of cannibals . So while this movie is not as good as the first for the most part , it is still a rather fun film that would have benefited with a shorter running time . It could easily be edited down a good fifteen minutes or so . Still there was a nice surprise at the end , at least for me , however IMDb kind of ruins it . Thankfully I didn't see that till tonight . So if you liked the first Pirates go see this one because while not the first one your still in for a treat , but be warned it ends in a cliffhanger .
Weird Godzilla movie and one of my favorites .	This one isn't your typical Godzilla movie as it is a movie against pollution . It tries to show its message in such a weird way though . The monster in this one isn't some stupid monster sent by aliens to kill us . This one is a living pollution monster . Though it may have some kind of origins from space as one of those random scenes had something to this effect . What are the random scenes you ask ? They are these weird cartoons that pop up for no real reason . This one is just bizarre , but fun to watch . It is also the only Godzilla movie I know of where Godzilla gets crapped on . Yes , you have to see it to believe it , but it does happen . Hedora or the Smog monster is actually a pretty decent looking monster in some of the scenes . When it looks wet , it looks the best . . . when it dries out though it looks really fake . Godzilla's suit is bad in this one as in the dark night scenes you can see the zipper reflect light ( why did they put the zipper in the front ? ) . The battle between these two thought is rather good . Like I said though , this isn't your typical Godzilla movie .
A bit like " Ring " , but a tad more creepy . . . the story however could have used some work .	For the most part I liked this movie . . . it was a film with many creepy images and quite a few killings as well . Still though the story just was not up to " The Ring's " story . In this movie there really is no motivation for the killings to occur they say things about rage and despair , but the only one who would have felt that really was not part of the supernatural side of the movie . Still though it was entertaining enough and I love the fact it was set in Japan . It also makes me want to see the Japanese version as I know it will be better as this one was probably Americanized quite a lot . I preferred " Ringu " to " Ring " also . All in all though I enjoyed it , though I wished they would just release the Japanese versions here . Also , there is one part of the movie where one woman is having a hard time finding here way around Japan and I found this a little hard to believe . Many Japanese are rather good at English if not fluent and many things there are written in both English and Japanese ( I notice this when watching other movies from there ) .
Korean soldiers on a seemingly simple mission that turns horrific .	This movie has a group of soldiers investigating the apparent deaths of a platoon of troops in a zone known as r-point . Why ? Because this supposedly dead troop has begun radioing hq with strange and rather spooky messages . They go to the scene and go into the area which seems to have something unnatural about it and it isn't long before unnatural forces begin to seemingly stalk the platoon . This movie is great on atmosphere and it is not a case of there being nothing really going on . The pacing is good and there are kills , I just needed a little more to make this rather good movie into a great one . To me this movie was a bit Dog Soldier and a bit Evil Dead , however it had some original elements of its own to add to the mix . Thankfully , there were no twist endings or anything of that nature , and there were relatively few moments where you have no idea what is happening . Still there are a couple of confusing things here and there , but not to much . I like the cast and I was pulling for them to get out of the seemingly inescapable situation . . . it just needed more supernatural happenings maybe , or something I just can't put my finger on it . Still it is a good Asian horror movie worth a look or two as it is a bit different than the Ringus and Juon movies that most Asian horror tends to resemble .
Good movie . . . hated the tv show and movies though .	The reason I liked the movie and hated all the subsequent tv stuff is the movie had James Caan . He is what I enjoyed most about the movie and he was not in any of the tv stuff as far as I know . The interplay between him and Patinkin was great . The movie revolves around aliens who are living on earth . . . Caan can't stand these aliens , and really takes to disliking them when his partner is killed by one . He volunteers to be the partner of one of the aliens so that he can use the alien to find out what and who was behind his partner's death . During this time being partnered with the alien Caan's character learns to actually like being around him and they end up becoming friends . This movie has good action and comedy as Caan's character tries to figure things out and learns about his alien friend's different weaknesses and strengths . Basically it is a buddy cop movie that has an alien teamed with a human .
More action in this sequel , but the plot isn't as good .	This one is very action packed this time around . From start to finish is almost one action scene after another . Unfortunately , it is not better than the first mummy because its plot leaves a bit to be desired . First off , the mummy doesn't seem to be important enough in the plot . The title of the movie is the mummy , but he doesn't seem to be the focus he should be . Then there is the Scorpion King plot . I don't mind that too much , but it just lessened the importance of the mummy further . Thankfully , the Rock has no speaking lines and not much screen time to muck up the film . Still aside from these and a few more story problems , this movie is a great action flick . Best to just turn off your brain and enjoy all the action such as the cool bus chase in London or the forest filled with the little creatures . The effects , like in the first one , are pretty good . . . but nothing really ground breaking . The Scorpion King at the end though was a pretty cool looking character that looked like one of Ray Harryhausen's stop motion creatures . Looking for action though , then this is your movie .
A rather risqué pg rated movie .	I enjoyed this movie a lot as a kid as I enjoyed the flash guns and the other nifty computer stuff . This movie also has a bit of nudity in it , funny considering this movie was rated pg . It even has a couple of good deaths in it too . Just not the kind of stuff you would find in a movie these days unless it were just showing a male butt on screen . Here you get brief images of models and it is quite nice to look at . The plot has a plastic surgeon's patients dying off . What is strange is that none of these women seem to need any surgery to begin with . One particular girl kind of gets close to the doctor and through a series of events they uncover strange going ons . This movie is very entertaining as it has it all it seems . Good action here and there , some mystery , and some nice imagery . You also have a cool flash gun that stuns a person for a good while when used . It also has its rather funny scenes as a couple of those deaths that happen when they are filming those bad commercials are just great . The cast is rather good too , as Albert Finney may not be an action star , but he does really good here . James Coburn is also very good and they have a nice assortment of attractive girls too . They just do not make them like this anymore unfortunately .
Kinda slow at first . . . but it really gets going .	Saw this on sci-fi channel so I have no idea how much was cut out . What I saw though was pretty cool . It is a bit slow at first , but once a dream sequence starts up it gets moving pretty fast . The story is about a group of bikers , one of them takes a spill thanks to a mysterious boy in the middle of the road and the army takes the dude who had the spill and does experiments on him . These experiments end up giving him telekinetic powers . . . powers that were apparently given to another named Akira . Well the guy ends up going berserk and using his powers to destroy the city , looking for the one called Akira . Meanwhile his old friend joins some rebel group in the hopes of finding his friend . The rebel group opposes the Akira experiments . After awhile the two friends have a cool duel . Parts are hard to follow , but all in all it is a cool movie and trust me nothing I wrote will spoil it for you . This is a very brief summary of the plot .
A super high concept movie that will move you to tears and change your life , no . . . still a fun ride all the same .	Yes this movie was probably in the end a pure popcorn flick that many will hate , however I thought it was a good fun movie . Rather nice treatment for a comic book hero that isn't exactly super well known or famous . Ghost Rider blazes on the big screen and the effects are rather good considering the character of Ghost Rider is essentially a skeleton in leather riding a motorcycle and he is on fire . The story seems to combine the two Ghost Riders I am familiar with from the marvel universe . . . the first one was Johnny Blaze who sold his soul to the devil . The second one being more a spirit of vengeance who used his stare to show evildoers the wrongs they have committed . I thought Cage was rather good in his role as were the other actors . . . I mean this is a comic book movie not an Oscar caliber movie we are talking about here . So all in all it is fun , could have used maybe a little more Ghost Rider here and there and perhaps a trim or two here or there to cut the running time , for the most part there are very few complaints by me . Ghost Rider is a comic I collected at one time , so it is kind of cool to see him on the big screen . However , don't go by my review alone in determining whether you will see this flick , as I love comic book adapted movies to a fault . . . that and horror so I may like stuff other more casual fans may not .
Caught this one on tv and found it was rather good .	Some had told me this one was actually better than the " Sixth Sense " and I found this to be true ( they get compared because they were released about the same time ) . The plot has a guy hypnotized at a party . He wakes up from the trance finding that he was very receptive to hypnotic suggestion . He even learns that the gal who hypnotized him stuck a pin through his hand ( if someone did that to me , I would be ticked ) . He also now is very thirsty and he seems to be able to receive messages from beyond the grave . His son also has this talent . A very good suspense that has more of a plot than " Sixth Sense " did and it moves much better . You should be able to figure out the mystery though fairly easily , but that does not diminish how good this film is . Kevin Bacon is great in the lead role and all in all this was a very entertaining flick .
28 weeks later a frenetic nonstop horror thrill ride .	I first have to admit I did not much care for 28 days later , however , part of my dislike for that movie may stem from the fact a review I read said it was like " Dawn of the Dead " which it wasn't really . Still , I may not be as harsh on it now as I was when I first saw it , I found it was a bit slow at times and you really never got to see the best horror , only have it described to you by the one person talking about how people were in a panic and that one by one people turned . Here you get to see exactly that . The movie starts with a bang as a husband flees from the rage infected hordes of people having left his wife behind seemingly to die , flash to 28 weeks later and the city is being repopulated slowly , but surely as the husband from the beginning is reunited with his kids who are extremely stupid . Yes , they do what they are not supposed to and go into a non safe area in search of their old house so they can pick up a few mementos of their mum . Well surprise , surprise their mother is alive , though not so well and is taken back to the city for examination . Well we soon find out why you should stay in the safe zone as the infection begins again and I am pretty sure most of the people who have returned home are now thinking maybe we should not have returned . The infection spreads as fast as described in the first movie , there is panic in the streets and the military is now in kill mode as our two kids are joined by a medical officer and a military man not keen on shooting everyone in sight whether infected or not . So you have cool chases with both the infected and the military and the characters in this one don't have much time to do anything , but catch their breath . Very good and fast paced horror movie .
A rarity in and of itself , a really good rpg on the gamecube .	Other than the Baten Kaitos series , this is about the only really good rpg on the gamecube system . Well Skies of Arcadia was good as well , but it was not originally designed for gamecube . This game features a group of friends and fighters helping another one of their friends complete a pilgrimage that once complete will lead her to becoming an angel and lead the world in which they live in out of a down period and into a new age of prosperity . Sounds a bit like Final Fantasy X , eh ? Well it does follow the usual rpg formula for the most part as there are a couple of twists here and there , though nothing to shocking what makes this one fun are the characters and the comedy that this and all the Tales series have within them . They also share the same combat system , a real time super fast battle , while it may be fun makes me at least tend to use only one of the characters all the time rather than switching around to others . You just get used to their moves and you have a hard time switching and assigning moves and such . So for an epic journey that spans two worlds and is a lot of fun , though not the most original , this game is worth checking out .
Like Blair Witch and Cloverfield only Romero made it with zombies ! ! !	Did not see Cloverfield , however , from the previews I could tell it had a person shooting the film as the action is happening just like in Blair Witch which I did see , but did not care for . This one I enjoyed though . Story , students filming a bad horror movie become involved in something bigger as the dead have begun to rise and they are out for the flesh of the living . Why is it happening ? No one seems to have the answers and the mainstream press seem to be trying to cover up the truth . So one of the intrepid student filmmakers decides to make his own movie documenting the ever increasing zombie epidemic . This movie was better than Blair Witch to me , because unlike that movie the film quality here was a lot better . I mean there were very few instances of shaky camera syndrome which is more realistic , but usually ends up making for a rather motion sickness like production . Romero seems to know in the end you are making a movie for enjoyment , it isn't real so why go out of the way to make the movie look to amateurish . There are also some funny scenes in this one too as I laughed at the Amish guy and was bummed out when he was out of the film . I also liked the end where the blond drove off in the trailer . So while not perfect and not quite as good to me as Land , Day , or Dawn , Diary was still a very fine installment into the dead series .
Creepy survival horror game with good atmosphere .	Yes the atmosphere is the thing that stands out the most in this survival horror that does not really resemble the more typical game of this genre such as Resident Evil . This of course is a good thing , and a bit of a bad thing too . Your character has received a letter from his wife . . . the problem with that , she is dead . The note mentions Silent Hill so off he goes , and it isn't to long after this that you see the differences between this and a Resident Evil as you first must walk through the woods in a dense mist . No monsters , no real dangers , just you walking alone on the empty path , with various sounds in the distance , sounds that don't sound quite right . It takes a bit to find your first monster thing , whatever the heck it is . The story progresses as you must navigate the town and certain buildings . You start at an apartment complex , you have a hospital to go , a ghoulish underground prison and finally your destination . All the while being pursued by nightmarish creatures and a mysterious hooded figure dragging along the biggest damn knife ever . You meet others in this horror filled world , others who have their own reasons for being in this hell called Silent Hill . The fighting is easy to do , but fighting is difficult , because our hero is just an average joe . You find various weapons and such along the way and by doing certain things you have a chance of getting a different ending . However , this is where Silent Hill is not so good . . . the endings , nothing is really resolved at all , I won the game , but still felt I needed to know more . Not really about our hero , but about the town , what caused this strange town to become a virtual hell ? In a Resident Evil , at least you are not left totally wondering about the plot . Still though , it does make for a good horror survival game with a bit of a differing take .
I like this one .	Here Godzilla is challenged by a space version of him . He also has these guys on an island trying to study him , and one of them wants him dead , cause he believes Godzilla is responsible for his friend's death . The government has also made this robot to fight Godzilla . All in all Godzilla has a pretty rough time of it facing the two . Though the team controlling the robot eventually joins forces with Godzilla to attack the space monster . I like this one , there are a lot of fights and Space Godzilla looks pretty cool , when he isn't flying around in space . Though I am thinking seeing Godzilla vs . MechaGodzilla would help a person understand it a bit more . As I am thinking the guy whose friend died was shown in that one .
An interesting role playing game with a unique battle system .	I am a role playing junkie , I love almost every role playing game of this type there is . . . however , I never cared for free playing ones where you create your character and stuff , not my style . This role playing game follows a band of travelers trying to find the mystery behind these strange seals and an ancient god . The world they live in consists of island continents floating in the sky each one representing a country . The main players seemingly on the side of evil come from a land with more technology than the other islands . . . they are also a ruthless empire intent on ruling the other lands as well . Our heroes come from varying islands themselves as is typical of a role playing game of this type . There are some interesting plot points , one in particular , but the story is pretty basic . Most of the characters can sprout wings , but this really did not seem to serve a point to anything other than to give our characters really cool wings during the fights . You are sort of a character yourself as you play the guardian spirit to our hero Kalas , from time to time you can make choices and suggest things to him . The most unique part of this game is the fighting . I am not the type of person who wants to fight and fight , I play role playing games more for the story , and don't get me wrong this one is more story based , still the fighting was an actual plus . It consists of offensive and defensive turns and utilizes a card based system that when used correctly can yield great amounts of damage or make an enemy's attack virtually useless . It is a great fighting system . One of the flaws of the game is the voice overs , I didn't mind their voices so much as the fact it sounded as if they were talking through a coffee can or something . Other than that , and a couple of other minor points this one was rather fun to play and enjoyable .
Kind of a Chuck Norris versus an unstoppable killer movie .	I liked this one quite a bit . The premise has Chuck going against a psycho . Kind of like a Jason or Michael Myers , but here it is explained why the killer can keep getting up after he is seemingly stopped . The problem is some doctors have been using an experimental drug that basically gives the killer the same healing powers as the X-men's Wolverine . All in all , this one moves pretty well , except for some scenes here and there that could have been cut out . I don't know if the biker gang was necessary , but it was sort of fun watching it . I could have used a few more scenes of the killer going after victims , as they are the best scenes . This one is a lot better than " The Hero and the Terror " as it sort of had the same thing , but this one I find a lot better . That one is kind of boring and the final fight isn't very good . Here though you get right into the action as you see the killer at home . He basically starts losing his mind here as kids are screaming and some lady keeps yelling at the top of her lungs . The guy gets a phone call from his doctor and basically tells the doc he is about to go over the edge . He then proceeds to get an axe , and you can see what this leads too . The movie could have explained some parts better and I wasn't fond of the ending as it should have been painfully obvious that what Norris did wouldn't be good enough .
Gorier if not better version of TCM .	I think I liked the original a bit more as it was more believable , but this one gets points for being a lot gorier . Sure there are going to be purists who don't care for it and for them the original will always be king , but that is okay , I just wanted to see a horror movie that didn't involve ghosts . This movie had a lot of in your face action and like I said , for me it was enjoyable . Horror is always going to take a back seat to other genres so you just can't get a super quality film , but as long as it isn't boring I will find something to enjoy about them . It also helps that this isn't a shot by shot remake , but rather the same titled movie that plays out much differently than the original . I like that as that way I don't know what to expect . Of course Leatherface is in it and there is that old thing with the family and how they see themselves as normal . It also has that drill sergeant from " Full Metal Jacket " and I always enjoy watching him . There are also more chainsaw kills in this one , which surprised me as I heard rumors there wouldn't be any in this one . So like it or hate it you have to admit that it was definitely better than TCM the Next Generation .
Another movie that shows me it is best to stay single .	Yes , with this movie I have found another reason to be thankful I am single . Who knows , if I find someone they could turn out to be totally crazy and their rage could manifest itself as midget monsters in little jackets and pants . Whoever knew there were such possibilities in the world . All kidding aside , however , this is a good horror movie . It is different than a lot of stuff I have seen over the years and that just added to the charm of it . The story went here and there and never quite went where I expected it too . I was so glad when the husband was not accused of the killings , I am not a fan of the plot device of someone who is not guilty getting the blame . All in all this is a rather weird and strange horror movie . The story is about this strange therapy called pyshcoplasmics or something to that effect . It does not seem to be a very helpful form of therapy as everyone who is helped with it seems to have really bad skin ailments . Well the mother of a girl is in this therapy as well and when ever she vents her anger and rage the person she is directing it to dies . For the most part it is not all that gory , but there is a gross scene at the end . There is also a scene where a teacher gets whacked in front of her students . There are about ten kids out there that probably needed therapy after the making of this film .
One creepy film	Creepy is definately the word I say describes this film the most . The atomosphere is good too . I enjoyed this film . It is one of the few horror films made that have made me tense . Are there problems ? Yes . The story is about a reporter that while trying to find out why her niece died comes across a tape that supposedly kills you if you watch it . . . so what does she do ? She watches it . On it are a bunch of disturbing images in black and white that reminds one of that one Nine Inch Nail video from way back . She promptly shows it to her ex because he insists then her son sneaks and watches it . So the reporter has to solve the mystery or in seven days as a phone call tells them they will die . Some of the problems for me included the girl in the mental institution . . . you never find out why she is there or how she knows things . Also , the little boy has some physic ( I know this is spelled wrong ) powers that are never fully explained and at one point you wonder why didn't the boy say what he knew earlier . There are a couple of other little things , but all in all it was a good movie . . . now I just have to see what happens to me at the end of the week .
Pretty funny comedy .	In the summer of 1998 this was the surprise hit that came out of nowhere . The Farrelly brothers had another hit , the other being " Dumb and Dumber " , and while this one is funny " Dumb and Dumber " is better . Sure this made more money and stuff , but it isn't funny all the way through as Dumb is . This one focuses on a guy who wants to find the girl he almost had a date with in high school , but do to a very funny accident it wasn't meant to be . He has to compete though with numerous other guys who also really want Mary including the private investigator he hired to find her . This movie has a lot of funny scenes , but the ending wasn't all that funny to me . There were other times in this one that weren't that great as well , but it still plays very well . All the actors are good , especially Stiller and Dillon . Cameron Diaz , the title character though is rather bland with her funniest moment being what she wipes through her hair . She is only marginally better in this than is Rene Zellwegger is in " Me , Myself , and Irene " as the title gal in that one . All in all though it is a very funny movie , it just may be a bit to long and the ending isn't all that funny especially compared to the rest of the film .
The highlight of the After Dark horror movies for me .	Granted there is still the as yet to be released " The Abandoned " to be seen , however , as of right now this one is the tops for me of the After Dark series followed by " The Grave Dancers " , " Reincarnation " , " Dark Ride " , " Wicked Little Things " , " Unrest " , and finally " Penny Dreadful " . This one at the start seemed fairly predictable to me , but instead of just keeping its course it strayed here and there and threw a breaking pitch as well . Granted I still pretty much figured out the ending it was an enjoyable movie . The acting was rather good , had some gore , and some nudity ( though not all that much of it ) . The story has your not so typical family moving into their new home and adjusting badly to it . The family consists of all siblings and they have a couple of rather dark secrets as they have to move all the time to keep ahead of suspicions and such . One of the siblings is tired of this life and is having trouble adjusting to this way of life and it is starting to take its toll . Well lots of stuff happens as girls are abducted and a very disturbing sleepover and you have to see it for yourself to see what it is all about .
Inspector Dryfeuss officially is bonkers . . .	Yes this movie has Chief inspector Dryfeuss escaping from an insane asylum with only one thing on his mind . . . the death and destruction of Inspector Closseu . Of course , what does one expect will come of this ? Well a very funny movie that is what . Still I prefer " Revenge of the Pink Panther " and " A Shot in the Dark " a tad more than this one . Though I feel it is on par with " Return of the Pink Panther " . Here the diamond does not figure in the plot at all , so forget it , it is all about the death of one very simple man . Part of the problem with it though is I always felt some of the funniest scenes in the series is of Dryfeuss at the desk and Closseu explaining a screw up or something , which is why " Shot " is my favorite . Still you get lots of comedy and quick fight with Cato who is dispatched in this film as he was in the previous film rather early . Still you get to see the great Closseu track down the completely insane Dryfeuss and also see him avoid with great skill numerous assassins out to kill him . Still the funniest scene for me was the dog scene , funny how the most simple joke can be the best . This one also features a rather funny ending scene as well so be prepared to laugh .
Rather fun , plus a rather good albeit sad story .	This was a good game , nice graphics and an interesting tale . Maybe it could have used a bit more here or there to spruce it up . . . maybe a few more characters or something as the game could use some more back story and character development . The game has a young man bringing his deceased loved one to a forbidden valley temple where he is confronted by a voice that tells him of a way to perhaps revive his beloved . He must go out and slay huge beasts which in turn destroys statues that seal this beings powers . So there you have it , you along with your trusty horse must seek out and slay the colossi inhabiting this mysterious valley land . Using the sun to guide you , you track them down using clues given you by the mysterious voice and once you find them you must find a way to climb them so you can find the weak point and bring them down . The fighting is great as it took a bit to figure out what to do here and there , however for the most part I was able to find a way to kill the Colossus without any aid . There were a couple , though , I had to search for the way to kill them on the web . Like I said add some more elements in the valley and this would be really great , because for the most part when searching for the colossi you are simply riding your horse here and there . Still good , but sad .
A rather fierce ending battle is the highlight to this one .	I enjoy the DBZ movies , but they usually all have the same flaw . . . they all could have used about 10 to fifteen minutes of plot development and about five more minutes of battle time . This one is no exception to the rule . Overall I enjoyed , but I thought it could use just a bit more . Here it is nice to see they take a differing approach with the evil foe as this monster is rather large and is not the usually just smaller or just bigger than Goku villain . This monster is about Godzilla size . They also introduce a new hero character as well and he is the main focus for the story part of the movie , the time before the ultimate ending battle . The plot has him and Trunks sort of becoming friends . Of course , this also has the part of the story where our plot is established and it is rather interesting , just needed a bit more to it . Then the last bit of the movie is a rather cool battle featuring many of the DBZ warriors including Goku , Vegeta , Gohan , Goten and Trunks . The battle is rather nifty as the DBZ warriors get knocked around a bit by the behemoth foe . So on the whole it is a good movie just needed about 20 more minutes of play time to it .
Battle for the right to go to Nirvana ! ! !	This is the first part of a two part series of games . The next one picks up basically where this one leaves off so a true sequel in every regard for a change . This one is a bit better than the second though I will give them both an eight for a score . This one features many of the same features found in many of the Shin Megami Tensei series of games as you level up basically the same . Using a point distribution system . Though you only level off the main character , though that is essentially the same as Nocturne . You get to pick what areas he levels up while the rest of the characters are done automatically . You will also see familiar monsters that are common to these games . You gain more powerful abilities via a grid and lets just say by the end of the game if you work at it your characters can basically only be hurt by a handful of attacks by the final enemy . The story is interesting , as your characters live in a world known as the " junkyard " fighting wars against rival gangs . However , a mysterious light is going to change everything as it causes your characters to not only gain emotions they never showed before , but it also gives them the ability to transform into powerful demons that must feast upon the flesh of their enemy to survive . Also appearing is a strange girl that the characters almost immediately feel they must protect . She also has the ability in song to soothe their hunger . So there you have it , many battles ensue as the story unfolds . You are Serph leader of the Embryon . At your side is Heat , Argilla , Gale , and Cielo . All through the game you go through taking out the various gangs in an attempt to win the " Junkyard " and ascend to Nirvana . The game would be better though with a tad less fighting and leveling . Especially the final stage which took a lot of both to get through as the story had to be put on hold so I could get stronger . However , it has a nice finish as I love the music that is playing as Sara and Serph try to reach for each other . Then you get a bit of a peek at the next game . . . so in the end a little bit different in the story which is good , could have been better though with less fighting .
The secrets of the Junkyard revealed and the mysteries of the Black Sun to expose .	Yes , the story picks up sort of where the last one left off as the intro movie shows Serph in a city where there are people all around seemingly turned to stone . Serph at the beginning of the game reunites with Gale and Argilla as they make their way through an underground city with a boy named Fred trying to escape the Karma Society . Heat , Cielo and Sera are all missing now , this world they emerged in is apparently the real world and not the Nirvana our heroes were promised in the previous installment . The Junkyard was apparently nothing more than a simulated world created by Sera made from people who had died in the real world . Their secrets are revealed here as a man named Roland helps unlock some of the secrets and joins your group . You must infiltrate the Karma Society a group of elites who turn into demons and prey upon humans forced to live in the underground thanks to something called the Cuviar Syndrome . . . the sun basically turns people into stone . Lots of twists and turns , the main problem is you go through the story rather quickly and before you know it you are at the last level simply trying to gain access to the powers that will make your team most effective in the final battle . The leveling is virtually the same except the grid is not as straight forward . You have to hunt for the skills a bit . Another difference is the inclusion of a half human , half demon mode that happens to your characters a lot when the suns solar noise reaches its peak . I rather liked this mode as you could pick up good experience if you killed the enemies . It was also a pain as I died one to many times during it as well . There are a couple of other minor differences too , however for the most part the games are the same . The ending though is not quite as good as the first one and it is kind of weird .
Wolverine goes back to his roots .	This movie was rather good , I have to say out of all the X-men movies though it was the weakest of the bunch . Not by a lot as I did give it a score of 8 , I just found it had some story problems here and there and other issues that the other movies did not have . However , I was surprised the story was somewhat good and not disjointed as it looked like it might be from the trailers , by that I mean the time did not shift from one random scene to another . The story basically shows us how Wolverine became Wolverine and a bit how Sabretooth came about as well though he was never called that in the film . You go through the opening credits going through all the wars they participated in , to their time in a band of mutant mercenaries led by Stryker . After a mishap there Logan ( Wolverine ) goes to live a more normal life only to find it destroyed by Victor ( Sabretooth ) . After a brutal battle where it is apparent Victor is just to powerful for Logan to fight in his current state , he accepts an offer to go through a procedure that gives him the metal skeleton and claws that we all know and love . The action is rather good in this film though I thought Wolverine had better fights in the previous movies as nothing in this one can really compare to the Lady Deathstrike fight in part II . I liked seeing other mutants from the comics as I thought they did the Blob very well . I was disappointed that Gambit was not in it more , and the one real fight scene he was in was a bit hard to follow , but it was nice just seeing him on film . Scott Summers also makes a brief appearance and they actually showcase his optic blast better in this movie that is mainly a Wolverine feature than they did the other X-men movies . It is not all perfect as Ryan Reynolds character was underused , I did not care for the reason Wolverine lost his memory in the other movies as it seemed to far fetched and kind of weak , and the last fight while cool was kind of a waste of one of the more interesting comic characters . I would rather have seen Omega Red as the final enemy as he would have been cool and you could have used the other character in later movies . Next up is X-men Origins Magneto , but truthfully I would rather see an X-men 4 movie as there were to many loose ends in the Last Stand .
For those who figured why not just blow the little girl in " The Ring " away with a shotgun .	I am not the biggest shooter fan in the world . Normally , if I do play a shooter there has to be some sort of twist for it to be fun for me . In this one you have a supernatural presence throughout the game that appears here and there , usually in interludes between chapters . The story , a special missions force is sent to capture the leader of a mysterious army , an army that does whatever the leader says , a sort of clone army . Well there is more than there seems , as this little girl starts appearing here and there and really causing havoc . You spend the game trying to learn her secret and the connection between her and the military commander and even yourself . As far as shooters this one is pretty cool , I loved the shotgun weapon the best as everything else ran out of ammo a bit fast . The fighting is fast , and it is rather hard to be stealthy as the enemy soldiers lock on you rather quickly . Still , you get your shots in . . . there is a lot of tension too as you never know what will be thrown your way next . A few enemies are a pain even on easy level , but for the most part it was not that hard navigating through this game to the somewhat bizarre ending .
Good follow up to Shanghai Noon .	Shanghai Noon was a pretty good flick and so is this one . . . it is a bit better than Noon . Owen Wilson and Jackie Chan seem to have more chemistry this time and the humor is better . The action is always solid , but it is mainly Chan doing all the fighting here with Wilson kinda just hanging back . The story is Chan's father is killed and the killers go to England and Chan , Wilson head to England to find the killers and get this royal crest back . . . also Chan has a sister to whom Wilson's character is attracted . Nothing ground breaking , but it is still a good buddy flick and worth checking out .
Fast , fun , zombie flick .	Though are they really zombies ? They are never reffered to as zombies in the movie . As people have stated before these zombies definately are not the typical zombies from other movies , they run around with weapons and work together to get their victims . The scenes that are the best are the ones where there are big crowds of people and zombies and the zombies are killing everyone and the music is playing . The military seems unable to stop them , yet a reporter and his wife fight their way through the hordes quite effectively . There are some problems with the film to be sure , but overall I enjoyed it . One problem is , is that after a hospital scene the movie isn't quite as exciting as it is just the zombies sneaking up on one or two people instead of the mass confusion scenes . Then there is the ending . . . SPOILERI wouldn't have minded the fact it was all a dream , but all that happens is his wife falls from a helicopter and dies in the fall . We have super powered zombies and this is the ending . If it was the zombies that were responsible for her death it would have been more acceptable , but a simple fall to end the movie ? End of SPOILERAll in all though I think this is a fun movie to watch though it does have inappropiate nudity ( I don't mind seeing nudity , but not in this context ) and a few slow periods , but for the most part it doesn't disappoint .
I figured since the movie was coming out soon I would review this rather cool game .	Yes , I played this game a bit after its release on the playstation 2 . Kind of surprised the movie version of it took so long to come out . The game as you can see by its date is quite old and I think the sequel is too . I think it came out in 2003 so a long time for the movie to come out after the source material when the source material happens to be a video game . So what can one expect from the game ? Lots of shooting , a cool storyline featuring a cop whose family has been slain and now he seems to be on the tail of some drug dealers . You have shoot outs in various locations , but for my money the one I enjoyed the most was the subway where the game starts out in . Not especially challenging or anything , but it is just a fun place to shoot the many guns you can get . My favorite being the sawed off double barreled shotgun . Sure the fact it only fires twice is a bit of a drawback , but I love that weapon anyway . The game is not perfect though as it has its share of flaws . The dream sequences where you control Max Payne as he sort of relives the horror of the night his wife and child were murdered . The first one is a bit of a pain , the one where Max is on that drug is an absolute terror to traverse . Granted you don't die , but if you fall off this barely visible line you have to start from scratch . There is also a very hard level involving a helicopter where you must go on a ledge that is a bit too difficult . The sniper rifle to has a drawback . It shoots from a great distance to be sure , but they just do not have all that many levels where you can remain invisible from the enemy while you blast them with it . They also seem to be deadly accurate with their pistols the same distances away . Still , all in all it is a very fun game whether you are in a smelting plant , the big drug dealers house , and even a giant office building . Still , I just love that subway level .
Simple but good .	This , of course , was McQueen's last role . It is nothing grand , and for the most part there really is no plot , but it is still a rather good movie . This movie revolves around McQueen's character who is a bounty hunter . This movie shows him go after various people and also shows his home life . . . which is a bit unique too . He goes after super big rednecks , small time crooks , crazy guys who blow things up , and one rather dangerous individual . Someone who he captured in the past also stalks him . All in all it isn't the greatest movie , but it mixes action and humor well . Even though McQueen was feeling the effects of his illness during the shooting of this one , he still does a great job .
Easily the best to the Mad Max trilogy .	In fact it isn't even close in my opinion . This one is set in an apocalyptic wasteland where the " hero " drives the roads simply searching for gas and avoiding others who are doing the same . He runs into some sort of pilot guy who tells him of a city where he can get all the gas he can get . He goes there and what he finds is a city with gas and a problem . Bunches of crazed warriors who want to break into the city and take everything and probably kill everyone in it . Max gets in to the city and makes a deal to get a truck so these people can get to the coast where they hope they will find a more civilized world waiting for them . Suffice to say this movie ends with one of the best vehicle action scenes ever filmed . Don't expect Gibson to talk much in this one as he plays a loner type , but at least he isn't dubbed like he was in the first Mad Max . There are some pretty good performances in this flick besides Gibson's as the bad guys all do a rather good job . Especially the really insane one who has to be chained up by the leader of the bad guys . One thing that really bothers me though is that we never get to see the face of the leader who wears a kind of hockey mask .
Pretty good Godzilla flick .	Godzilla , in this one , once again fights King Gidorah . . . the three-headed monster . The plot involves time travelers from the future who have a plot to make sure Godzilla never exists . They act like they want peace , but their intents aren't so peaceful as they do go back in time on an island where this dinosaur apparently helped a Japanese force survive an American attack . They teleport this dinosaur off the island that will be exposed to radiation and put these 3 stupid creatures on it . Well guess what happens , Gidorah is born . Unfortunately the aliens , though , put the dinosaur in a place that ends up being more radioactive and Godzilla is born stronger than he would have been the other way . A couple of pretty good battles in this one , though there could have been more . I love it when Godzilla blows one of Gidorah's heads off . Godzilla isn't good here either as soon as he dispatches Gidorah he goes on a rampage . How will Japan survive ? Well one of the people from the future has a plan . All in all pretty good , though the scenes with the cyborg moving fast are a bit lame .
Rather cool , but really more of the same .	I liked this Godzilla movie , but it does share a few to many similarities with the previous Godzilla movie . On the plus side there was a longer fight sequence in this one , but in the end you really end up knowing the outcome of the fight well before it is over . Especially when they add Mothra to the equation , Godzilla was considerably weaker than MechaGodzilla in the last movie so I don't see why they felt he needed another opponent . They really should have added Godzilla some help instead . As it is , Godzilla gets his shots in , but not enough to make the outcome of the fight ever be in doubt . They do add a rather different ending to this one slightly reminiscent of " Godzilla vs . Mothra " , with a twist . In the end though this Godzilla is just not nearly as tough as the demon Godzilla of the movie before the MechaGodzilla movies . In fact , this one isn't as tough as the two before that either . To bad it was not more like the demon one though as that one you could really pull against it , this one you feel sorry for . There are some returning stars in this as the pilot of the previous movie has a little more than a cameo , but this time the focus is more on a mechanic of MechaGodzilla . Good movie , but nothing new .
At times it seems like the typical teen comedy . . . then it takes bizarre twists .	Yes , this movie follows the typical teen romantic comedy type formula , but it adds a lot of weird stuff in it to make it more original and a bit demented . Kind of like the mother added this and that to the one meal she cooked , granted the one ingredient she mentioned was normal enough . . . raisins . The story , guy who seems likable enough has just been dumped by his girlfriend . Sounds normal enough , till you realize the girlfriend seems to date just about anyone and everyone . Well guy wants to win her back so he is going to try to ski this deadly run that the one guy his ex seems to be dating a bit more than others is an expert at . There you go , sounds simple . . . throw in a cute foreign exchange student and you have your typical teen romantic comedy . Though it is not as cut and dry as that as our hero must overcome an obsessed paper delivery boy , a strange introverted guy and his loud mouth mother , a fairly normal dad but odd mother , a brother who gets the ladies and builds super science fiction stuff , a friend who snorts everything but drugs because their town apparently does not sell them , a part time job at a burger joint , a drawing that takes a life of its own , and many other strange happenings . Add to that the fact from time to time our hero tries unsuccessfully to commit suicide and you have your very strange , but funny teen romantic comedy .
Fast moving science fiction comedy .	This movie was really fun to watch the first time I saw it in theaters , upon subsequent viewings , however , it loses its luster . Still though , it is still a fun movie to watch . Unlike the sequel which rushes us through the story , this one takes a bit more time developing the characters even though it is only about ten minutes longer . Both Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith are very good and funny , especially Smith because he is the new guy so he is seeing all the weird aliens and such for the first time . This is also something missing from the sequel . In the end though the reason I probably like this one so much is that it sort of reminds me of a Ghostbuster movie , and seeing as how we will most likely never see another sequel to that movie it is nice to see a movie sort of like it in that they are keeping tabs and hunting aliens rather than ghosts . The pug dog scene is funny , and the dog is not over used as in the sequel , and there is also a funny scene where Will Smith must deliver an alien baby . . . their main objective in this one is to track down an alien insect that has hijacked the skin of a guy and is trying to find a universe . If he succeeds the Earth is destroyed , of course Tommy Lee's character is so calm about the whole situation that you feel you have nothing to worry about . So for a funny movie that has great scenes of Will Smith training and becoming a Man in Black watch this film and do yourself a favor and skip part two . . . not that it was entirely bad , I liked it okay , but it just seems like an unnecessary sequel .
The game that made me a Naruto fan .	Yes , this game basically recounts the first 75 to 80 episodes of the hit anime television show Naruto . Though it basically just focuses in on Naruto's part in these shows as other character fights are basically ignored or maybe shown during the cut scenes which basically features excerpts from the show which is why I started watching the show . However , the omission of other characters during the story mode and even the fighting mode take this game down a couple of notches from being a truly all around great game . Still , it is very fun to roam the Leaf Village and perform the many quests the villagers offer . The fighting is fun too when using Naruto as it is a very satisfying to nail a shadow clone jutsu during said fights . You have your story mode and fighting mode , however , the fighting mode does not offer all that many characters for you to select from . The story mode is a bit limited too , as you end up fighting just random people not from the show unless you are in fact fighting one of the main battles during that stretch on the show in the game . However , this game is like an introduction into the world of Naruto as it introduces you to many of its colorful characters and you see bits and pieces of the show . Add more characters , more perspective , and a bit more depth to the fighting and you would have the perfect Naruto game .
This one is rather good , depending on the level .	This Tomb Raider was really good in areas , and in others not so much . You start out in a very tomb raider environment . Going through temples and the like in search of another mysterious artifact . This level is one of the best of the game . After you are done here you get to select your mission . Two so so missions and one really fun one . The really fun one finds Laura on a strange island , full of cannibal natives and dinosaurs as well . This is my favorite level in the game as there is a lot to overcome , yet it still seems like a tomb raider game as well . I love the scene where you use the big gun to blow the raptors away . Another level is the one in London . This one is okay , you are fighting mainly people here and at times you have a hard time figuring out where to go as it is really dark . Of all the levels this one is the weakest to me . Then there is a Nevada desert which has some nice desert scenes and a raid on a military base . Fun , but it doesn't seem like the type of level that should be in a tomb raider game . Finally , with your choices done you go to the Antartic and this level too is a mixed bag that at times is really fun , but at others really a big pain . The diving bell part was maddening . You get your assortment of weapons , you have your typical villain , and you get Laura in different costumes . Not the original , and not as good as part four this tomb raider still offers enough to be overall good .
Good disaster movie .	I liked this one more than Twister , which came out the year prior to this one even though Twister vastly out grossed this one at the box office . This is the typical something bad is going to happen , someone tries to warn the people , and nobody believes till it is too late . Still though it works really well hear as Pierce Bronson plays the guy who knows the mountain is going to blow at anytime and Linda Hamilton plays I think the mayor of the town , but I can't quite remember . Two kids get fried in a spring , and this is what makes Bronson sure the mountain is ready to blow . His team comes and they monitor the situation , but are not as convinced as Bronson . They finally get the evidence , but by the time they do . . . BOOOOOOOOM ! Everybody goes berserk trying to get out of town and Bronson and Hamilton have to go after Hamilton's kids who just have to get their stubborn grandmother who refuses to leave . More realistic than was Volcano , which was released the same year , it nonetheless has some flaws as well . This volcano is the type Mount St Helens was and I don't believe these types spew lava , but this one does . There is other stuff as well , but it isn't anything to detract from the movie .
Kind of a role playing game lite , but fun nonetheless .	Considering these days of the 50 plus hour role playing game , it was a nice change of pace to play this quirky game . Granted it wasn't exactly short topping 30 hours , but that is still a far cry from the games out today that take over 50 without doing all the side quests . However , it being a Mario game it is going to be more kid friendly and funny rather than dramatic and epic . The fighting is turned based , however you get to push buttons to strengthen your attacks . You have two people in your party , one always being Mario and the other one of the many funny characters Mario meets during his journey through a place called Rougeport . Princess Peach sent Mario a map said to have the location of a hidden treasure on it and she wants him to meet her in Rougeport . Well Mario can't refuse , but by the time he arrives , gasp , the princess has been kidnapped . Well this time Bowser is not responsible , though he does make many humorous appearances in the game . . . no this time it is a mysterious group called the X-nauts . So Mario must join forces with many in the town of Rougeport and surrounding lands to obtain the crystal stars . You have your basic levels and your not so basic as you have train mystery's to solve and you must fight your way to the top in an arena type setting . So the game gives you differing things to do so all in all it is rather fun .
Easily Steven Segal's best starring role flick .	Why is this movie any better than his others ? Well for one thing the story , it has one . His previous movies had stories of course , but they were all so similar that they were hard to distinguish . Usually him getting revenge or something . This one features him as a cook with a secret ( he is a butt kicking chef ) . The other factor that makes this better than his usual movie is the villains . You have Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey , both portray great villains here . It is nice to see a Segal movie that has some good actors in it . Well these villains proceed to take over this ship and of course our hero is not accounted for and fights to take it back with the help of a stripper who pops out of a cake in a rather sexy scene . Yes , this does sound a bit like Die Hard doesn't it ? So that is that , a good action flick for the most part . Not that it doesn't contain any flaws , the final fight is particularly bad as it is very one sided , and we are talking about Steven Segal here , he is not incredibly bad , but he is not the best actor in the world either . Still , this movie makes up for the short comings by being a very fast paced action adventure in the mold of a Die Hard flick .
Surprisingly good .	I found this for sale and I thought I would check it out . I wasn't expecting much , but it turns out I liked this movie . This is a tale of spiders that mutated from some chemicals and grow to giant size and attack . Simple enough . The effects were good and the actors were rather good themselves . Arquette was good too , and that was somewhat surprising . There were three or four different types of spiders on the rampage so you got to see them kill in different ways . The comedy was pretty good too , as this one doesn't take itself to seriously . I agree with those who said it was like a 50's sci-fi flick and it is definitely worth a look .
Not quite as good as six , but almost .	It took me nine years to finally play through and win this Final Fantasy game . That right there should tell you this one is a bit different . The story is your standard Final Fantasy fare . A traveler , a princess , a pirate , and a mysterious man with amnesia go on a quest to try and stop the destruction of the elemental crystals : Earth , wind , fire and water . They are also searching for the father of the princess . In the end an evil entity named X-Death is set free and he has plans to capture a terrifying power that threatens not one , but two worlds ! What sets this one apart and causes it to be sort of a pain too is the job system . Similar to that found in Final Fantasy X-2 , but more involved you switch between classes , gain their powers and in the end decide what powers will help you totally tear X-Death apart . The jobs though can take awhile to build up , now that I have a very good sized music collection it is not so bad , but it gets rather boring just leveling up with the same old music playing . The final boss in this one was somewhat tough too , until I read a strategy on beating him , then adding a few of my own touches it was a breeze . So in the end I liked six a bit better , however , this one was a rather good entry into the final fantasy universe . I think it is also the first one to feature Moogles , however , I may be wrong on that point . You also have a wide array of vehicles in this one to use to , from chocobos to airships , and even a submarine . However , the story is a bit short , I won it in thirty hours and I spent a good ten or more of that leveling .
Not much of a horror , but good .	This movie has been recommended to me by several people so I bought it . It turned out to be a pretty decent movie , but I wouldn't call it a horror flick . Great cast and acting make this mystery go which it is more of a mystery type flick . Of course at one point I was worried it was going to be some sort of musical , but after a stint where there are quite a few songs in a row they taper off . Of course the one song with Britt Ekland was rather good . . . heh heh . Christopher Lee is great in this one as well . It basically follows a cop from england trying to find a missing girl on an island full of pagans . In the end I really felt sorry for the one character .
Funny zombie spoof . . . but not quite as funny as it could have been .	This movie offers plenty of laughs for the most part and is a very enjoyable zombie spoof movie . Not quite as good though as Peter Jackson's " Dead Alive " , it still offers plenty to the viewer to see and laugh about . This movie is about a guy going through romantic problems , and other problems as well such as a dead end job and two other roommates that are on opposite ends of the spectrum causing headaches for our hero . While all these mundane things are going on there are numerous reports of strange happenings being announced , but our hero just switches the channel or ignores it and is completely oblivious to the fact zombies are going on a rampage . It is a bit of a slow set up , but it is funny watching him totally unaware of the fact people are being killed . Then the zombies attack in full force and the movie really picks up . Unfortunately , some times in the movie it seems to be an " Airplane " type spoof then in the next turn it gets a wee bit too serious for its own good . These scenes just don't seem to fit in with the rest of the movie . However , it does not deter from the movie all that much and in the end it is very much a comedy first , romance second , and horror a distant third . Some rather nice zombie effects here and there as there is a scene where a zombie falls on a pipe , and another person gets pulled apart , but for the most part it is not a gore fest . In fact , in scenes where people do get killed it seems a bit out of place seeing how light hearted the movie is at times . Worth a look and worth more than a couple of laughs .
Better than Dolph's 89 version , but still could have been better .	Overall , I enjoyed this movie quite a lot . However , it was not without its flaws . It doesn't follow the comic to much , but that is forgivable as is the fact they totally changed the Punisher's history . Still , this movie just needed something else . Maybe a bit more action or something to that effect as the movie builds up to one heck of a conclusion . Though the fact that it builds up to a very good conclusion is more of a strength rather than a weakness . I thought Thomas Jane and Travolta were both good and it was nice seeing Roy in a movie again . This was also not a movie that was loaded with a lot of cgi as most of the action looked like it was actually staged unlike a lot of other action movies these days . So I just can not place my finger on what it needed other than a different release date . This movie should have stayed clear of Kill Bill and opened in the summer or fall . I do not care to ever see Kill Bill , but it is a sequel so most of the Punisher's audience wanted to see how it turned out which is understandable . This movie was a good movie , a bit of a throwback to a time before computers and well worth the time spent watching it .
Didn't like it quite as much as the first , but still I enjoyed it .	The first one was a bit more intense as one could really relate to the family on the cross country trip . This one , however , features national guard members who are wrapping up their training and must stop along the desert to aid a group of scientist and military men along the way . Unfortunately , this is the same area where radioactive mutant inbred cannibals live and they almost immediately make an impact . The setup is a tad confusing as it shows this military man seemingly having a grudge or something against the clan in the hills , and this is never really touched upon . However , like the first one , the movie is very bloody and the action comes at one fast and furious . Still a bit far fetched that the family from the first one seemed to handle themselves a tad better than national guardsmen , but then the guardsmen don't have an ultra cool German Shepard to help them out . I liked this one as it was very fast paced and gruesome , I mean from the opening credits you know you are in for a gruesome time . Most of the action in this one takes place in a mining system and this along with the troops are a couple of differences . Still , in typical horror fashion you will probably yell " what are ya doing , stupid ! ! ! " and " hit him again he isn't dead " . So all in all a wild ride that is not quite as good as the first .
Good , but weaker than the first two movies and Rock Lee seems underused .	I liked this movie pretty good , but as it is the movies seem to be getting weaker . I liked the snow one the best , the stone one and this one last . The main problem stems in the form of very weak fight scenes . The bad guys in this one are very underdeveloped and I still do not get the point of the wigs . There is a bit to much sentimental stuff going on to as they did some best friends forever pinkie thing way to many times for my liking . Still , it had some good humor and the characters were their usual selves . I am disappointed also by the fact Rock Lee is in the movie , but he just does not seem to play a really big role in the story . He just seems there for the most part , though I liked his end fight the best . The story has our gang of Naruto , Sakura , Lee , and Kakshi guarding a prince and his son . For first part of the film it is basically just Naruto and the prince's son getting to know each other and come to understand each other . The only real action comes in the form of a ship they are traveling on being hit by a storm . Then they arrive at their destination only to discover the king has been overthrown and mysterious shin-obi are working with the councilman who took over . Well you have a clash and the prince gets captured and Naruto and gang have to go to the rescue . So that is basically it , like I said improve the fights a bit , make Lee a bit more important to the plot , and develop the bad guys and this one could have been as good as snow as it is though it was still fun to watch .
The movie that teaches you when you see a strange symbol on the wall of a bar its better not to ask what it is .	This is one of the better werewolf movies made . It is also one of the first to incorporate comedy and horror together very successfully . This movie has two guys walking the countryside . They go into a pub at night , get thrown out for being too curious and later are attacked by a wolf . One of them is killed and the other is sent to a hospital where he has a rather odd dream . He of course was bitten by a werewolf so he ends up becoming one . Very well done as they have him haunted by those he kills , even his friend pays him a visit in different stages of decay . The make-up and effects were excellent , this is much better than the cgi werewolf in Paris ( I never watched that one , but I saw the previews ) , though this one probably has the more limited movement . Some gore here and there , the worst is when the guy sees his dead friend at the hospital for the first time . The guy ends up falling in love with a nurse as well . This film is very good all the way around though those dream sequences are kind of bizarre . Also , the whole ending was just a bit to depressing seeing how most of the movie had its lighter moments . I kind of wish they had one more scene of the main guy and his friend walking off toward the horizon or something . Other than that it is good .
Well they did not really keep us hanging between two and three now did they ?	Yes , just a few short months after Feast II , here comes the happy finish to the trilogy . And while this one is not as good as the first one , it is a bit better than two . The focus of this one is comedy more than horror , though there is plenty of gore and once again boobs to keep me entertained , but then I am a pervert who likes a good gory movie . The story has our group of survivors right where they were after the last movie and like the last movie they have to do a lot of stuff to try and survive . They have no need to fear though as a butt kicking gun touting hero , a prophet , and a martial arts master come to the aid of our tired and beat down gang . They have to go through many obstacles on their way to finding a way past the deadly creatures that feast upon human flesh . From the rooftop where we left them , to the sheriff's office , and to a drainage pipe . You will get to see one person tired of the abuse get out of the film fairly quickly , lots of deaths , the use of gunpowder to stop the bleeding , and an ending that made me go " what " ? It is far from perfect as the tunnel scenes were a bit dark and they used night vision camera's a bit to much . Still the cast is still funny in a strange way and I like the way it follows the first movies format of introducing the characters and the previous movies combined . It is nice in this entire series that the monsters are a combination of costume and makeup rather than the computer generated monsters of the science fiction channel too . I don't understand why the score is so low here on the same level with the abysmal " Automaton Transfusion " as that piece of crap had no sort of ending whatsoever and the effects were not good even for a low budget movie . Though people here probably took pity upon it because it was a beginner film maker who made it .
Kind of a blend of other movies , but it works .	This movie is basically a little of " Minority Report " , " Men in Black " , " Star Wars : The Phantom Menace " , and the story it was based on all roled up into one . Sometimes with a blend you get a foul tasting mess , but here you end up with a rather good movie , that could have been better , however , overall it was entertaining . A movie about a robot who may have committed murder focuses mostly on Will Smith's character . He does pretty good in the role , but I am thinking an older actor would have done a better job with the role , maybe a Bruce Willis or someone like that . Still Smith did better than I thought he would and his character was believable enough for me . The robots are very well done and the story is decent enough , though I think they could have trimmed it down maybe ten or so minutes . The effects are good and the action is good as well . . . though most of the best action scenes are at the tail end of the movie . There are a few twists and turns in the story as well and they work rather well too . All in all this movie is an entertaining summer movie .
Fast paced anime action at its best .	This is one of my favorite anime movies I have seen . It is very fast paced with really cool action scenes , likable characters dubbed good , and good villains as well . Only one dude can save the world from the demons . . . his father tried to previously , but failed . This is shown right at the beginning and sets the tone for the rest of this flick . Let's just say that there aren't many boring parts to speak of . My favorite character had to be Mephisto . You wonder if he is on the side of good , or perhaps evil . Through it all the dude fights his way through the demons till he has the final confrontation with the man responsible for his dad's death . The final conflict is one for the ages and the ending to this one won't leave you saying " what just happened ? " .
Stars galore in this action flier .	Cage is a prisoner hitching a ride on an airplane transporting dangerous criminals across the land . Is he a bad guy , not really , but apparently if you are in the army you can not defend yourself or your loved one because you might hurt someone . He does , ends up killing a guy and winds up in jail . Well he stays for a while , but now it is time for his freedom , unfortunately the more dangerous criminals want their freedom as well and they end up hijacking said airplane and taking it over . Lots of action in this one , liked " The Rock " better , but this one has something better in it , in that it has a better bad guy played by the always good John Malkovich . It also has a whole lot of other stars too , Cusak , Ving Rames , Steve Buschemi , and even Dave Chappalle in a small but funny role . So you get it all here action , comedy , and a little romance too thrown in very small doses . You also get a great climatic ending as you get a plane crash and a chase in Las Vegas . So buckle in , and enjoy this very thrilling ride .
One of the must have games if you had the Nintendo game console .	Yes , this game looks very simple in its make up , but it was indeed a very fun game . You are Samus , a bounty hunter on a planet of pirates trying to prevent them from using a creature known as a Metroid as a weapon . The goal of the game is to defeat the leader of the pirates known as mother brain and stop the scourge of Metroids from taking over the universe . The first step to accomplish this task is to collect weapons and abilities to help you get stronger . There are many weapons to get to as you have your missiles , freeze beam , bombs and other assorted jumping abilities and things . You also collect energy tanks so you can withstand more damage from the enemies . The next step is to rid the planet of two of the mother brains main henchmen . Kragen and Ridely . . . one a giant porcupine type beasty and the other a bird . Tracking down Kragen is fairly simple , but man he was one tough opponent . He is listed as the first boss , but I can usually easily kill Ridley rather than this one . Though Ridley is harder to find . The final step is to infiltrate the mother brain's main chambers and fight your way through a horde of Metroid , which are not all that tough considering they are the title character and on to a not so tough battle with the mother brain . Lots of monsters to fight as I still remember the instruction book to this one being rather good with pictures of the monster and a good story set up . The play is rather simple , the music simple yet effective as all around this game is rather good fun for the early days of video game consoles .
Nice end to the original trilogy .	Though it is considered by many to be the weakest of the original three ( as do I ) it is still a very good movie . . . and a lot better than the first two of the new trilogy . The best part of this flick is clearly the rescue of Han Solo from Jaba the Hut . These desert scenes are great and the flick is at its best here . We also learn of the empire , which is constructing a new Death Star . Then the movie gets to the weaker part of the film where they go to Endor which just looks like any North American woods rather than any alien world . And we are introduced to the ewoks who are nowhere near the pain that Jar Jar would later become . There is also a cool space battle with Lando in command while Han leads a team to destroy a shield generator on the planet . Luke goes and confronts Vader as well . I like the way it looks like the good guys are losing on all three fronts , but all of them get their act together .
Funny movie , but tails off at the end .	I like this one about as much as I do " There is Something about Mary " , unfortunately it didn't get near the revenue at the box office . Still though I enjoyed it as I saw it at the theater . I went to the theater to see this movie with my friend , but I really didn't want to see that movie so I thought I would give this one a try and I was pleasantly surprised as I had a good time at this one . The story is a washed up bowler who lost his hand tutors an Amish guy who wants to save his farm . The movie is very funny with jokes flying . Unfortunately , it is a Farrelly brother movie so it has its dead spots of no humor . Here the last 20 minutes of the movie loses the energy and pace the rest of the movie has and there are only a few chuckles to be had . The cast is great as Quiad , Woody , and Vanessa Angel are great . So is the small role of Bill Murry as a rival bowler . All in all a very funny movie , that might have benefited if it was a bit shorter than it is . Though it is worth checking out .
Really like the other mummy movies except for the setting .	Well the setting and the fact Rachel Weiz was replaced . Still , I thought it was a good movie for what it was . Basically , the mindless popcorn flick of the summer where you really have to turn off your brain to have a good time . Though seeing the score here I have to think I am in the minority as far as people liking this one . I compare it to Van Helsing a bit . . . short on plot , but makes up for it with a lot of action . It passed the time nicely for me . The story , well another mummy has been reawakened . This time in China , a legendary emperor played by Jet Li . Well the mummy is discovered by Brendan Fraser character's son and the O'Conells who were apparently spies or something between mummy movies are sent to China with a rare artifact and of course their on a collision course for adventure and action . Granted , the plot is not all that great , but then when is it ever in these mummy movies ? Great initial chase scene , some good action in the mountains and a nice concluding fight at the great wall of China . Like I said this one had loads of action and was pretty well paced , so basically expect a mindless summer movie where you if you sit back and turn off your brain you will enjoy it a bit more . I think this one is not liked as much because people have been getting slightly better fare lately during the summers , which is also a good thing , but I can still appreciate something that does not provoke you to think about it long afterwards .
Good , but only because of Carrey and Jones .	The two villans are the only things worth seeing in this one . . . I gave it an 8 , but I should have given it a seven . There are many problems in this movie , but thanks to Carrey and Jones I like this one second best . Unfortunately , one of the problems is that it was poorly edited . If you read the alternate version , if some of that was left in the movie would have made a lot more sense . The story is a bit choppy , some scenes make no sense thanks to the editing , and thanks to the editing Kidman's character doesn't seem to need to be in this flick . Though I haven't seen many of Kidman's movies to compare , but in this movie she was rather bad . In the end there are a few good scenes here and there , but it could have been so much better .
Good movie that could have used a few more laughs .	This fantasy movie is about a boy who gets caught up in time travel by these little people who go to different times and rob them . All in all a good movie , but at times you just wish there was more comedy . The Robin Hood time was the best as Monty Python alum John Cleese plays Hood . It is the funniest segment in the movie . Then the kid gets separated from his band of time travelers and ends up in sometime that isn't very funny at all . Sean Connery plays a king here , and I like Connery a lot so it is a shame he is in the weakest section of the movie . They also go to France during Napoleon's reign and they also have a brief stop on the Titanic as well , before the final world , which is some kind of dark realm . There are funny scenes in this world , but there are also times this world gets to serious as well . During all their travels a bad guy from the dark realm wants to get the time travelers to his world so he can steal their map , which shows all the time travel portals . One thing about this movie I can't stand though is the ending . . . I won't dwell on it though . If this movie had more comedy it would have been great .
Really good up to a point then it becomes a bit so so .	The thing that sets this rpg apart from others is the innovative battle system . It is turned based , but to get a character to attack you have to mash a sequence of buttons , do the correct one and you do a super attack . This makes the game interesting even when the story becomes less so in the later stages of the game . The story as I have said starts off great . You are a young man being raised in a small village . The village is dependent on a crystal that seemingly makes water . One day it is stolen , by a very powerful warrior , our youth promptly sets out on a quest to retrieve said item and gets captured by one of the most bizarre brother sister pairings ever . The story is really engaging up to the point when it simply becomes a fetch the crystal scenario , however , this does not happen till rather late in the game and even though the story is weaker from there on out it is still not bad . You have your interesting team of heroes and if you combine them right you can do joint attacks that really pack a wallop . You can buy items , visit towns , enjoy a few mini games and hunt monsters . There is a lot to do , however , unlike a lot of rpgs these days you can also rap this one in under forty hours .
Nice bloody horror survival game .	The first one had a lot of flaws , but the sequels worked out most of them quite nicely . Here , you don't have to worry so much about running out of ammo or health . The story is also good too , as you are thrown right in the middle of a zombie shoot out during an excellent movie sequence that is a vast improvement over the lame opening in the first movie . You are Jill Valentine , and you must escape the zombie filled city and yes , this game would have been better titled Biohazard as quite a lot of the action takes place out in the streets . I do not know why they needed to call this series Resident Evil . Well you must go to various places , do some puzzles and things of this like . Sounds like part two and in a way they share some similarities . However , it differs in one regard in that there is a titan like monster on your tail and this ramps up the tension level when it starts chasing you all over the place . So you basically move from place to place being stalked by this beast along with all the other familiar foes of the Resident Evil genre . Jill can collect a wide range of weapons , and once you have won the game you can play a cool survival mini game so all in all this game is a must for those who like the horror survival type games .
Freddy pretty much is the focus of this one .	I liked this movie , but I couldn't help notice that Freddy seemed to be the focus of this one . Jason was basically in this as another means for the teens to try and get rid of Freddy . Freddy gets the opening as scenes from previous movies are shown of his while Jason gets less time devoted to his origins . . . except for a rather good scene that shows how he drowned in the first place . I am guessing New Line wasn't allowed to show any of Jason's previous movies , as I don't think they had the rights to any of his movies except for the tenth one . This movie has Freddy with basically no power because he is all but forgotten . He uses Jason to kill on Elm Street to get people talking about him again . Why Freddy picks Jason is never really known , you would think any psycho would have done and been more cooperative . Well Jason gets the people talking about Freddy again , but he doesn't just go away , but rather he sticks around and continues to kill . This irks Freddy and this sets up the showdown between the two . There are a couple of subplots in this one that really don't add anything to the film , like the father killing the mother and the cover-up of that murder . That one seemed rather pointless as the dad just disappears after awhile . The fight though is what you paid to see and you get plenty of gory action . In fact the whole movie is rather gory for any movie these days , when I saw the nude scene at the beginning I was worried and thought they wasted the R rating on that and not gore , but there is plenty of bloodshed . Jason gets most of the kills , as there is one cool party scene where he goes hacking away , but Freddy still seems the forefront . Though at times you seem to be watching Friday the 13th , then you seem to shift over to Nightmare on Elm St . Freddy first gets Jason in the dream world and lets just say Jason does not fare to well here as Freddy literally reduces Jason to tears . The battle , however , shifts to the real world at Crystal Lake no less where Jason fares better and the fight is more equal . All in all a pretty good movie , just wish they had come up with better ways to introduce Jason and had better subplots .
Recreated yet again , but very well done here .	Yes , they do it again . Rather than make a series of movies that are interconnected they instead reinvent Godzilla yet again . This time though it is done much better than the previous three movies . This time a new Godzilla arrives to wreck Japan . The army sends out their monster killers , but their weapons are useless against this new Godzilla monster . This group was created after the first Godzilla attack in 1954 and was destroyed by the oxygen destroying device . This group apparently destroyed Mothra ( though anyone who has seen that movie knows this was not the case ) and some dumb looking monster I had never seen before . The new Godzilla however is to powerful . So they use the skeleton of the old Godzilla of 54 and make a MechaGodzilla weapon they call Kiyru . MechaGodzilla is my favorite of Godzilla's adversaries so I really enjoyed this movie . There are some good fights in this one , though I do wish Godzilla got in some more hits . Though there is this one cool scene where Godzilla kicks MechaGodzilla through a building . Also in this one you are supposed to be pulling for the robot , but I always find myself pulling for Godzilla to win . I will not tell you the end , but it did suggest a sequel and I do believe there is one . Which will be a nice change of pace rather than reinventing Godzilla yet another time .
Took me a bit to figure out it was in fact it was a sequel .	Granted you saw the little boy rather early , still I thought this was going to be a totally differing movie from the first one . Mainly because the box the movie came in didn't really feature mother and son on it . Well it is a sequel and it moves in all sorts of directions as did the first , however , I actually thought this one was a bit easier to follow than the first one even though it is disjointed as well . That may be in part due to the fact I have seen the first one so I knew what to expect this time around . Basically , people are getting killed or mysteriously disappearing and through the unique storytelling we get to see why . A couple of interesting deaths to behold as that hanging was different , and some of the stuff that is nothing really new ala the first movie . This one has a rather disturbing ending that has some shock value and you have to feel bad for the guy who survived the segment named after him , he just shouldn't have involved himself further . Of course , as with any movies of this type the final ending made he go " Huh ? " . However , that was not enough to diminish the rest of the film .
Good Roger Moore Bond flick .	This Roger Moore Bond flick while not as good to me as " The Spy Who Loved Me " or " For Your Eyes Only " is still quite enjoyable . This Bond for some reason features more comedy than any other Bond flick except for " Casino Royale " which was more of a spoof . There are still great action sequences though . The highlight of this one is the action on the train and race to get to the nuclear bomb . Well I should say this movie starts out with Bond trying to find out why another 00 agent was killed and apparently had a forged peice of jewelery . . . this leads him to India which leads him to this circus which is really into smuggling and this leads to Germany and the above mentioned nuclear device . The villan is really good . . . Maud Adams is the title character and just let me say it . . . she was not the first Bond gal to be in two movies . There is a gal in Dr . No and she returns as the same character in From Russia with Love ( I heard she was the only one on some special , but I knew differently ) . The finale isn't to bad , but is kinda lame until the plane sequence .
A bit of comedy , action , and romance all in one movie .	This movie stars Brad Pitt and Anjelina Jolie . It also has Vince Vaughn in it . Other than them , you won't really remember to many other people in this flick , but that is okay . It works and makes for a fun experience at the theater . The movie is about two contract killers who are married and neither knows what the other does for a living . The spark is gone out of their married lives , but once they find out what they do and end up targeting each other it adds a little spice to their lives . The comedy is funny , the action is great ( particularly the car chase scene ) and there is a dash of romance added as well . The three actors listed above all do a great job . Pitt is the more funny one , but Jolie plays her role as the slightly more professional hit-man great too . And of course Vaughn is funny in his role as well . The movie is not perfect however , as I found it sort of ran a little to long in the end and also the ending leaves one wondering just how they escaped their little predicament . Other than that , however , it was an enjoyable and funny movie .
Something not quite right with the town .	If there is one type of horror movie I absolutely love ( besides zombie movies ) it is the ones with the mysterious towns with dreadful secrets ones . This one features such a town , in it everything seems to be rather ordinary . Except , of course , when out of towners come through . They end up dead , usually by some very gruesome methods ( that acid death for instance ) . Not to mysterious or strange , except later these people who have been slain end up being part of the town . They appear at their school desk in one instance seemingly unaware that they were in fact killed . This movie is just cool . I really enjoy it and anytime I see it on I have to watch it . The ending when I first saw it as a kid totally threw me , though I probably would have figured it out if I first saw it today . Mainly because of all the horrors released recently where there are surprise endings . For my money though this one is a lot better and actually has people being killed .
Different type of role playing game that has traditional fights and ones featuring ships .	Yes , this game has pirates and pirate ships in it , the catch is that they are flying ships and the lands you plunder are in the skies . Sort of like the Baiten Kaitos series though this one did come out first and has more of an emphasis on flying than that particular game . The story has you as a kid and his female friend working with the guy's dad as of course pirates . They do their normal routine , but then run across a mysterious girl and the real quest begins as your pirate hideout is invaded by this empire , there is always an empire in these games that invades lands isn't there ? Well you go on a quest searching for a ship and trying to stop the resurrection of these giant golem creatures . You also must search for various landmarks and such during the game and this can be fun , but annoying as well . You feel pressed to find them because this other guy is searching to and I do not know what it goes by , but it is annoying when you don't find the landmark first . So you have your many lands , you have a part of the game where your character is deserted on a island too which is fun . So is the part where you are imprisoned in the empires lands . You also must reach a more primitive land , plus another land that is surrounded by dark clouds and there are other places also surrounded by barriers . You find out the empires intentions , you are hunted by a crazed bounty hunter and you also get to be a sort of bounty hunter yourself and go after other pirates not as noble as your team . You meet different pirates who will join you on your quest and you will fly through the skies in various vehicles as well . The combat when you are playing as the characters is pretty standard . . . basic attacks and some cool special ones . The neat part of this game is the fighting when you are in the pirate ships . These fights are usually a good deal longer , but a nice change of pace .
A rather unique and funny look at the afterlife . . .	This movie is a rather differing look on what the afterlife might be like , and I have to say it isn't pretty . Our couple drowns and struggles to adjust to being dead , however , they seem to refuse to read the book that explains just how to go about it . If being dead were not bad enough , they have some new home owners moving into the house where they must spend the first years of their afterlife and they are not a very good match with our deceased couple . What are they to do . . . well there seems to be a solution , a ghost named Beetle Juice who advertises himself as a type of reverse exorcist . This of course sets up some really funny scenes . This movie I do believe is effective because its somewhat limited use of the funniest character , Beetle Juice . . . this just makes his scenes even more funny and over the top . Not that it is bad when he is not in it , it still has some funny stuff such as the dinner scene and the waiting room scene . Still , when Beetle Juice is in it , the comedy ramps up a couple of notches . All the cast do a rather good job , of course Keaton kind of steals the show . This movie is kind of dark , however it works as Tim Burton always can create a good dark atmosphere so if you want to see a rather humorous take on the afterlife this is the movie for you .
Rather like a demented episode of Monty Python .	Yes , this movie is nothing to take to seriously . . . that being said I found it a very funny and good movie . The concept alone is worth a chuckle as I did when I first saw it advertised and just thought it was a made up movie , a sort of joke . When I finally found out it was an actual movie my curiosity was piqued . I saw a trailer of it on the movie " 1408 " and figured I would in fact check it out . The story , well there are killer sheep , dude . Yes , there is some experimenting going on and there is lots of gore as these sheep really know how to rip into the flesh . Thank the special effects crew that did the Lord of the Rings trilogy for that . Is it all good , nah . . . moves slowly here and there and some of the jokes miss the mark too , but all in all this has to be the best movie about killer sheep ever made ! ! ! Subsequently , it is probably the only one of its type made so I guess it could be said it was the worst too . However , I found the movie rather good as the special effects and gore effects were like those in some classic gore comedies like Peter Jackson's " Braindead " , you also get a likable enough cast . Of course , you also get to see lots and lots of sheep . . . you think to yourself , how does one come up with a movie like this ? However , there are lots of sheep in New Zealand so I guess for the maker of this film it was a natural .
This Die Hard is the fastest moving of the trilogy .	I like this one about as much as I like the first one . The first one had a better plot and was more tense , but this one moves at a very fast rate and it seems like it is over before it begins . A vast improvement over part two , this movie once again finds McClane in the middle of an emergency situation . This time , unlike part two , though it is very reasonable that he is involved as Irons character is the brother of the lead villain of the first Die Hard . Throw in a very funny Samuel L Jacksoncharacter and you have the makings of a great film action wise andcomedy wise too . This one centers around a mad bomber , threatening to blow up several places including a school if officer McClane does not play the game . McClane must do whatever the bomber says and boy does the bomber do a lot to get our hero down . Great action is a given as our hero desperately must try to find the bombs . Multiple car scenes a cool scene on a boat , and loads and loads of gold thrown in for an exciting ride . Irons is great as the villain , as was Rickman in the first one . Truly this is one fast moving ride that will keep you well entertained throughout .
Good movie , but man I was depressed afterwords .	Yes , this movie has a bit of " the Omega Man " and " The last man on Earth " in it , but for the most part it is its own movie . It starts out with the world in ruins , well New York in ruins and you are introduced to Robert Neville who may be the last man on earth . You are also introduced to Sam his faithful German Shepard , which struck a chord with me as I used to own one of those myself and love that particular breed . You get to see how he spends a typical day in his life and you also are introduced to those things that lurk in the darkness and only come out at night . However , at this stage those that come out at night seem to be targeting our hero . So we have some good chase scenes , and some good action , but you also have a couple of scenes that are really depressing especially if you like dogs . Our hero is not alone for the entire picture , however , as he comes across a lady and her son , well they kind of come across him . There are also flashbacks detailing the beginning of the end of civilization . The creatures are different than those in Omega Man and Last Man too as they are more like that infected from 28 days later though they do share the pale traits of the omega ones . All in all a good movie that left me depressed .
Very good third installment	This one was a lot better to me than the Temple of Doom . What made this one fun to watch was great action and great interplay between Connery and Harrison Ford . Sean Connery really added a spark to this one and provided the film with some of its more humorous elements ( Still like Raiders best though ) . This one has Indiana looking for the Holy Grail . . . the villains , once again it is the Nazis . This one starts out with kind of an earlier Jones adventure with the late River Phoenix as the young Indiana Jones taking an artifact from this tomb raiders cause as Indy says , " it belongs in a museum " . Then the story flash forwards to him trying to recover the same artifact . Then he goes after the Holy Grail because his father has disappeared while looking for it . This leads Indy to Venice then to a castle in , I think , Austria where he finds his dad a prisoner of the Nazis . After they get away they have to go into the heart of Germany to retrieve a book that will help them get through traps that protect the Holy Grail . They take a zephyr and there is a cool bi-plane fight and then it is off to a Middle Eastern country to find the grail . The trap scenes are cool and there is a great tank scene before the traps . Then comes the only complaint I have and that is the chamber with the Holy Grail . . . the guy guarding it was a bit lame . Other than that though , this was a really great movie .
A very funny end to the Pink Panther series . . .	Or at least it should have been the end as this is the last Pink Panther with the very funny Peter Sellers as the star as he would die sometime after this movie . They would go on to make three more sequels and one that is sort of a remake , but in my view it should have ended with this one . This one has the mob boss after Closseu to prove he still has what it takes to get the job done . In fact Closseu is seemingly killed and guess who is assigned the job of tracking Closseu's killer , none other than his ol ' buddy Chief inspector Dreyfeuss . Of course , Closseu is not really dead and he too is on the case . Lots of funny stuff happen as our inspector tracks down the mobster and you also get to see a very funny eulogy given by Dreyfeuss for Closseu . Sure there are some flaws in the story such as Dreyfeuss even being alive after the last movie and granted this one ended rather differently than the others , but in the end it is a nice little ender to the character of Closseu .
Let's hope they never try to reanimate this classic . . . no way it could be improved upon in this day and age .	I have finally seen this horror classic , I have always wanted to , but it usually cost a bit much . Finally , though I got a reasonable price and quite frankly it would have been worth it at the more expensive price as well . As good as advertised this horror comedy really delivers the goods . Though I am apt to say it is more horror than comedy as there are chuckles to be sure , but it contains more horror elements than say " Return of the Living Dead " or " Dead Alive " among others . The gore is good in this one , granted not all the effects are top notch ( like say the cat ) , but it is an older movie and probably does a better job then than would be done now . Of course what makes this movie a bit better than your average horror is the acting . Jeffery Combs is great as Herbert West , as the usually over the top actor is once again doing what he does best , playing an over the top character . The supporters are good as well and Barbara Compton is simply gorgeous . The story , there is an incident in a foreign country involving a very famous doctor . One of his prize students is now enrolling in a school in Arkham Massachusetts I believe . He becomes roomies with a fellow student there and he quickly shows odd behavior . There is a doctor at the school who is seemingly less bizarre than West , who West can not stand and who is more creepily bizarre than West ever could be . Well let's just say experiments galore and the dead are reanimated and can the young medical student who took West in keep his very understanding girlfriend ? Great movie with great music too , that tune is played by an orchestra is very catchy .
Great family comedy adventure , under the sea , in the aquarium , and through the deadly ring of fire .	This movie was a very family friendly and funny movie that both kids and adults can enjoy . Great voice work really makes this one , as both Albert Brooks and Ellen Degenerous do outstanding jobs with their characters . I especially enjoy Ellen's spacey character , that does not have to good of a memory , but is so cute in her delivery . I love the part where she takes her turn at the shark intervention . Great scenes everywhere as the father goes looking for his son Nemo who is captured and placed in an aquarium of a dentist . In the tank are some of the most neurotic fish ever , including one determined to escape the tank . They all band together when it is found out that Nemo is going to be given to the dentist's niece who lets just say isn't very good with handling fish . Nemo's father faces many perils in the quest for his son including jellyfish , a lantern fish , a whale , seagulls , and many other very funny perils . So watch this movie and enjoy as it is one of the better computer generated movies I have seen with great voice acting . I enjoyed almost every minute though the opening is a bit sad it makes up for it with great comedy . . . look for John Ratzenberg as a very funny school of fish and check the end where the flaw in the escape plan is obvious .
Very good and icky horror comedy .	Considering all the mediocre horror movies that have made a rather sizable chunk of money at the box office it is a bit surprising that this one isn't doing really anything at all . I found it highly entertaining . . . good gross out effects , and it was funny too . Granted it is not the most original movie made as it seems to borrow a lot of elements from other horror movies ( " Night of the Creeps " , " Society " , and any zombie movie ) it is still done very well . The story , nothing new , meteor crashes into a typical rural town . . . person finds said meteor and gets taken over by an alien . It plays out great though as the characters in this flick are very good . The sheriff is done well as is the guy taken over by the alien and his wife . Though by far the funniest character for me was the mayor . Plenty of gore in this one too , and the special effects are done well as well . You will be saying ick a lot , but you will also be laughing too , a bizarre combination to be sure , but hey it works here . You have some zombies here sort of , you have your weird slug creatures and you have a lot of kills as well . I also liked how this one ended as well . . . an all around good horror comedy for me .
Great action adventure in the sands of the Sahara .	I rather liked this movie about a salvager and his buddy looking for a old civil war vessel and helping a doctor track down the source of a really deadly disease in Africa . I sort of compare it to " National Treasure " , but I liked this one a bit more because it was more action oriented . I also always find Steve Zahn humorous and it is nice to see the comedy relief guy actually be a competent aid rather than a complete klutz as well . Matthew McConaughey is also good in the lead role as is Penelope Cruz . Starts out kind of slow , but once the boat chase occurs the movie goes into full throttle and it is nonstop action and humor . Of course this movie is based on a book and I am guessing that the book is a bit old as the source of the sickness seems more like something from the 1980's rather than 2005 . I am not going to complain though as this movie was for me fun to watch . There were a couple of nice twists as well though you will know one of the villains the moment you see them . So give it a look see and you might enjoy it as much as me , even if you don't you probably at least will not be bored . Also , there is a great climatic action scene that is just great .
The sweeping epic of the series .	This terminator movie is the big one of the three ; by big I mean the longest one , the one that was the epic blockbuster . I like all three the same though . This one is the biggest of the bunch and has many great special effects ; this one also though has a couple of boring spots in it . The other two have better flow while this one stops here and there . Still though there are great action scenes , though nothing as good as the chase in part three . It also has a cool villain in the T-1000 , a terminator that was very tough to kill . I say it was a lot more durable than the T-X in part three even if it couldn't do some of the stuff it could . Arnold is of course great in the one role that is perfect for him and Linda Hamilton is good as well . Furlong is okay , but he can get on your nerves so I am glad he didn't come back for part three . This one has it all and is the grandest of the bunch as far as scope , Cameron was trying for a big budget , and big event movie and he succeeded .
Has more of the spirit of the video game than did the first movie .	This movie was a bit of a surprise to me . I thought it would be a pretty decent flick worthy of passing some time , instead I find one of the better action movies I have seen all year . I am one of the few who liked the first one , but this one is much better . I just thought it was more like the game itself without taking itself to seriously or getting to campy . You are thrust into the action right away as people fight for survival against the undead in Racoon City and it all looks really good . Most impressive is the lack of rampant cgi effects or cgi monsters . I do believe the one's with the tongues are the only totally cgi monsters in the movie . The nemesis monster is done completely with makeup it seems and makes me think maybe they could have made a Hulk using the same technique . This one picks up where the last one left off as Alice finds herself in the middle of a virtual war . The additions to the cast are all welcome changes from the last movie as the person who plays Jill Valentine both looks and acts like the character from the game . Scores of undead are killed and various other monsters and enemies line the path as we follow a group of survivors desperate to get out of the sealed city . Kind of sad that this one is so good and it is based on a video game and a movie based on a comic " Alien Vs Predator " was not nearly as good .
A different perspective on the alien invasion plot .	This movie shows an alien invasion from the perspective of not those on the front line , but an average family . They are not trying to beat the aliens and save the day , but rather are just simply trying to survive . I think the film works well doing it as well . Though it is also and mainly a movie about faith which it does very well too . Mel Gibson and Phoenix do great jobs as do the children . There are scenes to get the heart pumping and the first time I say it I worried for the family a bit . I enjoyed this one a lot more than " The Sixth Sense " ( didn't see " Unbreakable " ) because it was a lot less dreary and there was a good bit of humor in it as well . There are some parts I had trouble with however , the fact the aliens seemed to be more like zombies or something instead of lasering everyone was a bit unrealistic , but I can overlook that in the fact it is like " Night of the Living Dead " which I also enjoyed anyway .
An old fashioned summer action movie .	Yes , this is a throw back action movie when action movies in the summer meant lots of explosions , cool chases , and big name stars in the lead role . Granted you get explosions these days , but then you also have some super powered hero to save the day . Not here , here we get our old buddy John McClain . Who gets the rather simple job of escorted a known hacker to some Washington bureau , no problems right ? Wrong , we get action right away and the film rarely lets up . Multiple shootings , car chases and fights . . . I am amazed actually that this film managed a pg-13 rating . So the plot ? Internet terrorist are systematically disabling such functions as traffic , the stock market , and our utilities . A hacker hired by them to partially create this havoc unknowingly is now no longer needed and must be eliminated along with all the other hackers they hired to help create this meltdown . Well , unfortunately for the bad guys this particular one has a cop sent to get him and that cop is McClain . Amazing action ensues with a great gun fight to open it up , a cool copter chase , a fight with a kung fu babe and the explosive final showdown . It is nice to see Willis still in form , as it seems it has been awhile since one of the old action stars has done a movie of this caliber . His supporting cast is good to as I enjoyed the interaction between McClain and the hacker and the bad guy was good as well . Like I said this movie never really lets up , though still did not have quite the fast flow of part three or the amazing intensity of one , it is still a very strong entry into the Die Hard franchise .
The best in the Wild Arms series yet ! ! !	Yes , this Wild Arms takes the best from the previous games and combines it with by far the best story to make the most moving and challenging Wild Arms game yet . The only real negative I have about this one is that the boss battles can take a good while and early on the battles are a bit of a pain as well . A good story is what I look for in a role playing game and you get that in spades here . At first you are following a character named Dean and learning the ins and outs of this Filigai world as with most role playing games has nothing to do with previous incarnations ( though there are quite a few characters from previous Wild Arms games making cameo's here ) . Dean , along with his childhood friend Rebecca find a mysterious girl clasped in the arm of a golem that has fallen from the sky . Her only memory is of a name , that of " Johnny Appleseed " . So they begin their quest to find this man , also doing other tasks such as Dean trying to become a Golem Hunter like his hero Nightburn , and Rebecca trying to realize her dream of becoming a trick shooter . In this world though there are humans and those called Veruni and the humans are kind of the ones forced to work for the Veruni a race that looks like humans , but have come from outer space . You learn many secrets during game play and there are many twists and turns as they would show groups talking and at first you don't know who the main enemy is going to be . It all clears up though . Meanwhile , you meet some interesting characters such as Greg , a golem destroyer out for revenge against a man with a golem arm . You meet Chuck , a bit of a dense golem hunter apprentice and you meet cute little Carol . . . a bit of a klutz , but you have to love a kid that sports a missile launcher in her backpack . The combat is similar to four , with the main differences being unlike four where every fight went by rather quickly even the final fight , here most take some time especially the boss fight . Searching is present in a more likable form as you can ride around the world map searching for treasure , and you can also turn off encounters like in four too by destroying this hard to kill creatures , that do give you loads of experience for your troubles . So for a very well done role playing game with a touching story and a bit of a sad ending give this one a shot .
Great Sequel . . . my favorite of the series .	This is my favorite Lethal Weapon movie . Murtaugh and Riggs have to protect a government witness from these South Africans running some kind of illegal business . . . I think it is drugs or something of the like . They tried to go after these people , but unfortunately they are actually diplomats and have immunity from prosecution . I don't think you can just run crazy and commit crimes like they did in the movie in real life though . Joe Pesci who was actually working for the criminals as a money launderer plays the witness . This movie is just great . It has it all action , comedy , and drama . Pesci is a great addition to the cast as well as he provides for some good laughs . Though the highlight in this one has to be where Glover's character Murtaugh is caught on the toilet with a bomb on it . Gibson's character Riggs , falls in love with a gal working with the diplomats / criminals and you know will have the feeling watching it that it won't end well . All in all a great movie that is fun to watch .
Funny , fast and fun to watch .	This movie to me is more of a comedy than a horror . The scenes I remember most are the funny ones . Not to say it is a pure comedy , it isn't . It is though a very good vampire tale . The cast is superb , even Corey Haim and Feldman . This is definitely the best movie they did together . This one has a family of three ( a mother and two sons ) moving into her dad's home . They go around town and the younger one hears from some comic book workers that there are vampires in town . The older son is in fact being recruited by said vampires and is already becoming one after drinking a strange liquid . All in all I love this film and it is one of my favorite vampire flicks . Good mixture of action , horror , and especially for me . . . comedy . This movie is so very well made that you will find it hard to believe that the director of this would go on to make the pretty bad " Batman and Robin " . This movie though is good , and has one of the best ending lines of any movie .
Stallone's last really good movie .	Well Demolition Man had its moments , but for me , this was Stallone's last good movie . Part of the reason is the great scenery here as the mountain shots are breathtaking and they were really good in the theater . This one is a lot better than the recent mountain movie Vertical Limit in that it has a much better plot . In this one some guys who steal money from a plane and end up crashing on the mountains . Lithgow is the villain here and he is great . They get the mountain rescue team to come help them . Stallone who has been out of the loop because of an accident also goes to lend a hand . The thieves basically hold Stallone and his friend captive and get them to locate their money , which is in three suitcases on the mountain . Stallone gets away and proceeds to get in the thieves ' way any chance he can get . I can't believe someone thought the action scenes were dull , but to each his own . I think this movie is great to watch and it has one heck of a conclusion .
A very fun tomb raider game that in fact has a lot of tomb raiding .	Yes , this was a fun Tomb Raider game and it is more like the first one unlike a couple of the later ones are . Here you are mainly exploring tombs , granted , you take a side trip to one skyscraper in Japan . The controls are a bit different , but more like real life as you may still have unlimited ammo with the default guns , this time you will have to reload . The game features some very beautiful locales , especially if you are playing on the X-box 360 as the backgrounds look all the more grand on this system . The character looks are about the same . The fighting is good as you are going to be involved in a lot of shoot outs , but for me the best parts of the game were the jumps from here to there and such . Almost like those found in a Prince of Persia game , albeit without the wall run . The story , Laura once again while just trying to find an artifact runs afoul of another group also seeking what she is . This leads to startling revelations into Laura's past as those thought dead might not be and myth and reality seem to merge . Of course , you must go from location to location to search for pieces of an artifact , that is usually a must in most of the tomb raider games . The only complaint I have is this is a very short game . Not that I want a game that goes over twenty hours all the time , but I won this one in only six hours . Still , it was fun while it lasted , though the ending suggests a sequel will be made .
Hey , I think I knew Abbie Normal !	Yes , this is of course a spoof of old horror movies , to be more specific Frankenstein movies of course . This is also a very funny spoof on Frankenstein movies as Mel Brooks was top notch in this film as he did nearly no wrong in casting and the story was to die for . The only complaint I have is not really all that big , but I just find this movie is most funny during the beginning and middle while the ending , while not weak , is not as strong . Gene Wilder plays the son of the notorious Dr . Frankenstein great , at times playing his role in a straight and serious manner , then he goes off on a demented rant the next . Other characters and cast are good as well , but for my money Marty Feldman stole the show as Igor ( prounced eye-gor here of course ) . From his scene in the basement posing as one of the heads on display to his bad choice in brains , he was the highlight in this movie for me along with the brief , but also very memorable performance of Gene Hackman as a blind man who asks god for just someone to stop by and visit him . The story is very basic Frankenstein with the strange Mel Brooks flair added in for fun . Many funny scenes are to be found within as this comedy still holds up and stands the test of time .
The best game yet in the Silent Hill series thanks to an improved movement and combat system .	The story is not quite as unsettling and eerie as say two or three and I do prefer my game to have a good story more than just fighting . However , that being said the improvements made in the combat engine and the way you move can not be ignored . Neither can you ignore the fact Travis , the lead character this go around is the best butt kicker in the series as well . The dude can simply beat the enemies to death with his bare hands . The atmosphere is still top notch as well as Silent Hill is nice and foggy and you get to visit many locales during your trip through this nightmare town uncovering secrets about Travis ' life as well of that of a mysterious little girl . The story is rather good , I liked two and three's a bit better as there really is nothing new being brought to the table . Basically , it is a prequel to the first Silent Hill game . You are Travis , a trucker who while on the road one night nearly hits a girl . He follows her and ends up pulling another girl from a burning house and after this wakes up in the nice little town of Silent Hill where he heads to the hospital to check on the girl . Suffice to say it is not to long before the nightmare creatures that inhabit Silent Hill are hot on Travis ' tail as he must also navigate a mental institution , a theater , and a hotel to uncover the mysterious secrets surrounding his own life as well as the little girl . You also have the ability to enter a more evil form of Silent Hills as in previous editions . This time it is a bit less subtle than the way you entered the more demented world in part three as you touch mirrors , but it is rather cool looking in the mirror and seeing the more warped version of Silent Hill , or the slightly more normal Silent Hill . Fighting the monsters is fun too as I killed most of them by beating them down with my fists , still you have your typical pipes and hammers and guns too . Along with the weapons you typically find in Silent Hill , there are also some that are a bit different as you can now throw everything , but the kitchen sink at the enemy . So for a nice little trip to Silent Hill , try this game on for size . . . for me it is the best trip yet .
The best role playing game yet for the 360 mainly due to the unique fighting system .	This was a very fun game , largely thanks to the innovative fighting . Turned based , but you perform the actions in real time . So you swing the sword , do the special attack , block and use items . Its great , you can maneuver around to the back of an opponent , you can run to the other side of the screen and then the enemy takes a turn and it takes them all their turn just to get to you . I was slaughtering everyone near the end and loving every minute of it . The characters are pretty good too , if a bit dressed up and cutesy . There are also a lot of playable characters too , from the book I figured there were only four , but there are quite a few more . The story also uses a device I wish role playing games would use more often the team split up in two and you play each perspective . Now for the story , it was good for the most part , but it had its weaknesses . Most notably the end , mainly due in large part to the fact I was not sure why certain things were occurring . I am uncertain why the one person even felt the need to leap off the cliff , what was up with the guy turning to a monster and going to another dimension and other various things . Of course , the story had a rather interesting twist by the inclusion of Chopin as one of the characters and it was interesting hearing his various music during periods of the game . Still , at times he seemed to be the focus of the game and at others just an onlooker . Not quite sure what happened to him at the end either , well I know what happened to him in one world , but what about the other . The story is basically the old group traveling the land to gain an audience , team gets split up , and then team recovers to try and take out the somewhat evil plot . The main character is hard to pinpoint , but for the most part I will say it is Polka , the girl who is close to death so she can use powerful magic . Though my favorite was Jazz , not really a main character , but he was the best attacker and had one big sword .
A rather good vacation for you the viewer , not so much for the Griswalds .	Yes , the classic road trip movie and one of the best as far as comedy road trip movies . This is the first of four vacation type movies and is easily the best , granted I never saw the one in Vegas . This one just seems the most realistic , granted I am doubting all the things that happened here could happen on one trip , but still I am sure these things have happened before on family trips . So the story in this one ? Simple , the Griswalds are going on a cross country trip to Wally World and plan on taking in the sights of America along the way . What could be more fun ? They even stop at some relatives house and get to take on another traveler in the form of a delightful aunt . Yes , this movie is very funny and you just have to cringe at all the stuff that goes wrong on Clark's ( Chevy Chase ) perfectly planned trip as things go wrong right from the get go as the vehicle they planned on driving gets replaced by a rather crappy station wagon . The cast is great as Chevy is in prime form and Beverly DeAngelo is perfectly cast as his wife . The kids in this one are the best of the movies I have seen in the vacation series and Randy Quaid is excellent as cousin Eddie . We all have that relative hiding in the wings don't we ? The trip seems to go from one disaster to the next , and while it is terrible what they have to go through it is still worth a lot of laughs . Many people I am sure have driven into the bad part of town on accident , driven through that detour sign , and had run ins with the local law enforcement . Granted , I am also sure not many have found themselves in the middle of a desert , flirting with a beautiful modelesque lady , and had to use a BB gun to get into a park . So for a very funny and memorable trip check out this vacation .
Godzilla in a tag team match against his old foe and a new one .	I like this Godzilla movie now that I have seen it again on DVD . In fact it has become one of my favorites of the original Godzilla movies . What I like most is the characters in it and the investigative scenes where they try to figure out just what is going on . Of course there is also the cool monster fighting , but I just did not find the monster fighting to be the highlight of this one . This one has a guy hired on to draw monsters for a new kind of theme park that has kind of a monster theme , but is also aimed to open a door to to some sort of absolute peace . There does seem , however , to be something deeply suspicious about the people who work at this place . There is also a mysterious tape reel stolen by a girl that may add some light to the mystery . The guy hired to draw teams up with this girl and a guy to figure out what is behind the disappearance of her brother . We soon learn the identity of the men and the reason behind their theme park , but by that time it is to late as the monsters Gidorah and Gigan are unleashed upon Japan . Fortunately , Godzilla and Anguriahs come to the rescue . The fighting here is okay , but part of the fighting between Godzilla and Gidorah looks suspiciously like it came from another of their movies as all the fighting here takes place at the theme park and some scenes look nothing like the area . This is also the first Godzilla movie to feature Godzilla bleeding , I love the scenes where Gigan cuts Godzilla's shoulder , so did the makers of this film because they used it in Godzilla vs Megalon as well . In fact there are quite a few scenes from this movie in that one . That one also features kind of a tag match up however I didn't like it nearly as much as I didn't care for the characters in that one .
A very fine role playing game , its only flaw being second disc issues	This game for the most part is excellent . Its story hooks you right from the get go and the combat is rather varied for a turn based rpg . Great characters and great story too . The combat is turn based , however for some of the fights you will fight using the characters themselves and you push the buttons in certain order to perform super attacks that you can chain together for deadly result . The other fighting involves mech warriors the characters pilot called gears , and while the fighting doesn't have quite the combos in this form you do get to do very devastating attacks to your opponent . The game features cut scenes ala final fantasy , however , with the exception of the first one most are done in an anime style . The story follows a young man whose tiny town is invaded by warring nations and who becomes involved with a rebel group to take back one of the countries at war . However , not all is as it seems as secrets are learned and outside forces trying to help one country over the other have appeared . There are a lot of mystery's to unravel , a super powered villain out to destroy seemingly everything , and people with differing motives to be found . Yes , this game would nearly be perfect until the start of the second disc and from here on out the game seems a tad rushed as you basically get told what is happening without any involvement in some areas and you must fight a little in others . I am guessing the makers of this game were pushed into releasing the game a bit faster than they wanted . Still after awhile you take control of the game again and it once again becomes very good , just a shame that this one section of the story had to unfold the way it did .
The best of the " Tales " series so far .	The " Tales " series of video games really are not sequels to each other or anything , they all have their own plots set in different worlds and such . What they share in common is the fighting engine which consists of real time combat , cooking , and funny little skits you can access at certain points in the game . They are all rather fun too , however , this one is the best of the series to date . Graphics wise it blows its predecessors away as the characters look really good as do the backdrops . The fighting is a bit better too as they add a couple of new techniques , basically the field of fonons effect . The story is also very good as you just don't know where it is going at times and then wham you are hit with plot point after plot point . Don't get me wrong though it has its flaws also . The fighting system kind of makes you want to use one character all the time , in my case Luke , rather than change up with someone I am not used to . The ending to this one was also a bit of a letdown , especially considering how good the story was as a whole . Still , you get a fast paced story driven rpg which are exactly the type of rpg's I like . The story follows a bit of a spoiled member of royalty . One day a mysterious youth named Tear comes to his castle to assassinate Luke's instructor Van , when Luke interferes with this both he and Tear get warped into a far away land and must rely on each other to make it back to his home . Of course this is only the beginning as the journey will stretch over a rather big land and many calamities and hardships will befall the travelers as they must deal with entire towns falling into the ground , a religious orders knights dedicated to their cause and many other pitfalls and challenges . It is hard to sum up as I don't want to give anything away . Still for my money it is a great game with a great story .
Great anime movie from the past .	I saw this movie as a kid under the title " Warriors of the Wind " . Didn't really understand it much then , but I sort of liked it . Then I saw it for sale on DVD and had to buy it cause I wanted to see it with the original Japanese voicing and it was great . I was either not paying attention when I watched it as a kid , or the Japanese version made more sense than the English dubbing one . This movie revolves around this young princess and the valley she lives in . A peaceful place that lies on the boarder of a deadly toxic forest that threatens to consume the world . There is also wars going on between other nations and one of the wars is being taken to the peaceful valley . The war is over an ancient creature known simply as the giant warrior . Though in truth the giant warrior really doesn't amount to much in the end . Rather good artwork here and a good story really hook you in . And it is not a typical short cartoon movie , it is rather lengthy so the story really has a chance to develop .
The first and still one of the best of the series . . .	It is probably because you only do what the title of the game suggests , tomb raiding that still makes this game of the series one of the best . Later you would do missions not involving tombs . . . where you would raid military bases and buildings . However , Laura Croft always seems most at home in an underground temple searching for treasure and clues to disable deadly traps and unlock doors . Which is basically all you do here . Laura is hired to find pieces of a device by a mysterious woman and she goes to different tombs in order to find them . There are usually some animals to kill and even a T-rex to fight . For the most part you are not killing people in this particular adventure . Though there are a couple of people in this one to fight . The ending is a bit over the top , however , this does not detract from the overall fun to be had in this game . The physics and controls are rather easy to get used to , and no need to worry about ammo as your default weapons never run out . You can also pick up a different weapon here and there including a sweet pair of uzi's . So if going into mysterious tombs is your thing , this tomb raider adventure is still tops .
Is it reality ?	This fast paced Arnold movie is a futuristic blood bath . A guy who wants to go to mars ( we can do that in the future apparently ) decides just to have the trip implanted in his brain as a memory . Instead of doing that though it makes him remember his past self who is a spy . They clear his memory again and he has no recollection of his being a spy , but he is attacked again and again by everyone . He gets to mars and there is more bloodshed . This one has a lot of action , but it has a rather good plot as well . The effects are pretty good too , as the scenes on mars are pretty convincing . All in all a great action thrill ride .
Good cast , good story , good movie .	Go figure , but this movie was not exactly successful at the box office , I am guessing it made a lot on video however . It has spawned two sequels and even a television series . This one though was a fun movie to watch thanks in large part to its cast . Kevin Bacon is good as the lead and Fred Ward is also very good . They play a couple of friends living in a very small town in the middle of nowhere . There only wish is to get out of this place and get somewhere big , unfortunately something big is just under their feet . Seems there are these snake creatures living underground and their going on a killing spree . They seemed to have chased an old man up a power line where he died of thirst , then they take out a farmer and his livestock , and then they take out these two working on the side of the road . This movie is rather bloody considering it is a pg-13 movie . The town meets and we are introduced to more colorful characters like the survivalist couple , the stingy grocery owner , and the annoying kid who loves to play a prank or two . There is also a student there studying seismology or something and everyone turns to her for the answers . This movie has a lot of comedy and some great scenes and is an all around enjoyable movie .
The best Resident Evil yet . . . you can actually aim your gun ! ! !	Yes this game known as Resident Evil to us , Biohazard to others is the best of the series mainly because you can aim ! ! ! No longer do you get ripped to shreds simply because your stupid gun can only point high or low , now you can shoot for the head or blow out their legs so they fall to the ground . You get plenty of ammo and health too , though you certainly need it as at one point I thought I was sitting pretty with bullets for my weapons , the next , I was down to a few shots in my handgun . Yes , you get a vast array of weapons that you can buy from a weapons dealer , and you can upgrade said weapons also . However , sorry to say the dude does not sell ammo to ya . The story has Leon from part two in Europe to find a girl named Ashley , who is the president's daughter . Leon finds a village of insane people , who are less like zombies and more like the infected from the film 28 days later . The graphics are great , the game play a bit tricky at first , but once you get the hang of it , its a lot easier than any of the resident evil games . At one point you are in a small village and the people are attacking and you can go into one of the houses and push a shelf in front of the door to hold off the attackers which I loved as it was just like out of a zombie movie . So for a good gory time this game is one of the better ones I have ever played .
Simple plot , but great movie .	This is a very good Bond movie that is easy to follow . The mission get a decoding machine from the Russian's . Sounds simple , but SPECTRE is trying to play the British into getting the machine for them . This is the Bond movie that relies less on in your face action and more on spy stuff . Bond has to use his wits if he wishes to escape Turkey the decoding device alive . He gets help from Kerim Bey , a wealthy man who does spy stuff for kicks . He also must get the help from Tatiana who thinks she is working for Russia , but is actually working for SPECTRE . Great villians abound in this flick too , as there is Rosa Kleb ( who is the inspiration for the female villian in Austin Powers ) and Robert Shaw who I never recognized but then reliazed it was him as a SPECTRE super soldier . The scenes on the train are great and unlike Dr . No this one has a really good finale .
Great atmosphere in this horror classic .	This personally is my favorite John Carpenter movie . I have liked some of his others a lot as well , but I just really enjoy this one the most . The thing that stands out the most is the atmosphere of the flick . The way it starts with a spooky ghost story with subtle music in the background , all the crazy stuff happening in town , the three on the boat getting killed . It just has a really good flow that moves really quick . It says it is an hour and a half , but it feels half that . The Fog is one really eerie and good ghost story , and it has a good cast as well . Definitely , worth checking out .
Who ya gonna call ?	This is one of my favorite comedies of the 80's . This movie revolves around three paranormal researchers studying ghosts played brilliantly by Bill Murray , Dan Akroyd and Harold Ramis . They end up getting kicked off the campus where they worked and decide to open a business that gets rid of ghosts . They basically get no calls at first except for a lady who saw a vision in her refrigerator ( Signorey Weaver ) . The guys soon though receive their first call and go and fight a ghost in a hotel . This sparks a rash of callers and the Ghost Busters are in business . This movie is great as it has good comedy and a great cast that also includes Rick Moranis , Annie Potts , and Ernie Hudson ( who becomes a Ghost Buster after awhile ) . This movie also sparked a short-lived pizza chain and a rather good cartoon . This one is also , a whole lot better than the sequel that would come out five years later .
Price fights for his life in this adaptation of " I am Legend " .	This was a really good horror movie about the last real man on the planet earth . By day he hunts them down killing them and feeding their bodies to a pit , but at night they come for him and his blood . They are a form of vampires , infected with a disease that makes them rise from their graves . It even makes them abhor their very own reflection and makes them allergic to garlic . In the middle of this one we get to see the beginnings of this plague that has swept across the entire world . Though this movie is very good , it is depressing and rather sad . Someone said the ending was a surprise , but if you have seen " The Omega Man " then the ending is not going to surprise you all that much . Suffice to say both endings suck . However , this movie is very good in spite of the ending as Vincent Price does a very good job as the final man on Earth , I felt badly for him . This one even does a better job of making the streets look deserted than the modern movie " 28 Days Later " , because at least here we have bodies littering the streets . Definitely worth a look if you can find it . I bought a horror gift back for real cheap that had it in it .
Great first entry for Bronson .	It wasn't as good when I first saw it , but as time passed this one got better as I got more used to seeing Pierce in the role as James Bond . This one has lots of action and lots of good characters . Sean Bean is great as the Bond villain in this one and so is Famke Jannsen also a baddie . The story revolves around a Russian weapon called goldeneye , which has the ability to knock out anything with an electrical circuit in a 30-mile radius . Bond has to do a lot to get this weapon back including infiltrating the base of the Bond bad guy . There is also a great scene where Bond uses a tank to chase the bad guys and demolishes downtown Moscow in the process . This one has good humor and Pierce is a better Bond than Dalton in that he is a bit more humorous than was Dalton who was way to serious . One complaint though was the fact Bond got a cool car from Q that had a bunch of gadgets and he never uses it .
Just your average family Xmas from the 1940's or 1950's .	I really enjoyed first seeing this movie as a kid with my dad . We just happened to stumble upon it one day . Upon subsequent viewings , I still enjoyed this classic . Now they overplay it a bit , I still like to catch bits and pieces of it during the holiday season as you really do not have to see the movie from start to finish to enjoy it . In fact , I could probably not tell you the movie from start to end in correct order . I know the beginning and end , however , the middle is scrambled . The story is simple enough to summon up , a boy is experiencing a typical Christmas season , this year the boy really wants to get a BB gun for Christmas . His mother is firmly against this , the movie is basically the boy going through the typical stuff during the holiday season and doing things to try desperately to get a red Ryder BB gun . He gets to fight the local bully , write an essay on what he would like for Xmas and even tries to tell Santa himself what he most desires . His family consists of an eccentric mom and dad and a little brother who has to dress in many layers of clothes for school . The movie is funny and charming and is rather simple . It features many likable characters and cute situations . It also does not get to sentimental for a holiday movie , most of them have some sort of message or overly sentimental parts . This one stays light hearted and funny throughout .
A fun sci-fi film .	Unlike the recent two Star Wars this is a very fun and entertaining film . I won't go into any more detail about how bad I think the newest two are so I will leave it at that . This film is very entertaining though Empire is by far my favorite ( suprises me this is ranked ahead of Empire ) . The only problem with this flick is that it doesn't really get going till they go to the bar where they meet Han . Also , the light saber isn't used much in this one . The only duel is between Obi-Wan and Vader and Obi-Wan throws the fight . Other than that though it is a very solid movie . The escape from the Death Star , the battle of the death star , and the likeable characters make this a movie worth experiencing .
Loved the fight involving Garaa !	I liked this movie , the second Naruto feature film . I enjoyed the one in the snow a tad better though as I found the story here a bit disjointed as I was not sure where certain things were supposed to be happening or when . Still , like the first film this one too has a nice run time to it of a hour and a half , plenty of time for a nice well developed movie with some really cool fights . The story starts off with ninja from the village hidden in the sand in combat with unknown assailants . It then shits to Naruto , Sakura , and Shikumaru hunting down a ferret for what they think is going to be an easy assignment . They soon find out otherwise as they are also attacked and Naruto is separated from his friends after he has a fight with a strange young warrior clad in armor . They both are injured and taken in by a caravan and soon after Naruto is invited to join this strange organization that wishes to create a utopia . Of course , all is not as it seems and there are plenty of fights to go around . My favorite was the one involving Garaa fighting this strange woman who takes him very lightly which is a very big mistake . The concluding fight is rather good too involving Naruto and this strange man who is a better villain than any of those in the previous movie .
Murray at his best .	This film was a rather big movie of I think early 1993 . It was one of the best comedies of that year and won over more people on its release on video . I didn't care to see it at first , but watched it when it came on cable and it won me over too . The story has a somewhat grumpy weatherman sent to a city to do a story on the Groundhog there and the festival surrounding it . I know the name of the city , but I am not even going to try to spell it . He hates the idea and wants to get out of there as fast as he can . Unfortunately , a blizzard hits and he has to stay longer ( a blizzard he predicted would miss the area ) . So he stays the night and the next morning starts out eerily the same as the previous . At first he thinks it is just a coincidence , but realizes soon enough that the day is repeating over again . It continually repeats throughout the movie and you get to see Murray begin to loath the town and then fall in love with it . No real explanation is given for why the day repeats , but none is really needed and it is amusing to watch Murray go through the city knowing exactly when and where things will happen and getting to know all the people as well . The movie takes kind of a somber twist near the end when some scenes involving a homeless man come up , but it doesn't stay somber instead going for a more positive , funny conclusion . I love the scene with the kid in the tree . How long he stays in the day is anyone's guess , but I figure he had to be there a good 15 years worth of days . . . my friend informs me it takes a while to master a piano that well . This is a very funny and entertaining movie that is heart warming as well . I also have to give it a chuckle cause of all the time he spent trying to pursue the one lady played by McDowell . . . It does take forever to win over the best gals out there doesn't it ? Chris Elliot is also in this one , but don't let that scare you off , he is actually rather good and doesn't detract from the movie at all . All in all a very good comedy , bravo Harold Ramis .
A very good epic adventure starring the guy who makes only epic adventures it seems .	Yes , again we have Orlando Bloom in a larger than life period piece where there are sword fights and really cool battle scenes . The guy has a knack for turning up in movies I enjoy watching and this movie is no exception to the rule . Here he plays a blacksmith who is at a very bad time in his life at the moment , his wife and child are dead . If this isn't enough , the father he has never known has come to ask him to join him in his crusade to Jeruseulem . He turns them down , but does something that causes a loss of faith and a need for redemption so he rushes to once again meet up with his father who turns out to be a very good and noble man with the best of intentions and the brief time they have together really makes an impression on the young blacksmith . Then through a series of events that finds our hero the lone survivor of a ship heading for Jeruseulem he makes his way to the fabled town showing a penchant for being a decent man with one sin he must erase . He becomes leader of a small village for which he helps to make better and a knight that is willing to protect those not really worthy of protection . In the end , we have him protecting the people against an army that is waging war based on the despicable actions of men who came to power by means that are less than honorable . A very good movie all the way around , good acting especially by Bloom and Liam Neeson and very good action . Probably came out the wrong time though as recently the theaters have seen a lot of these movies come and go which is a shame because this one really is one of the better ones that isn't a Lord of the Ring movie . I highly recommend it .
Great sci-fi for the family .	I had the pleasure of seeing this movie with my parents when I was ten and I really enjoyed it . In fact , whenever I see it on now I still enjoy it . This movie is a movie the whole family can get behind . This one is not about some obnoxious little brats outsmarting their parents or some other adults at every turn ala " Home Alone " , this one is about kids doing something that all kids really enjoy exploring . Though they do their exploring at a very extreme level . It starts with a series of dreams that one friend tells another and pretty soon they make the device that was seen in the dreams . It apparently makes some strange spherical airtight shield . They decide to make a ship to put the device around and they put in some air tanks so they can breath . They then take their device for a rather humorous test drive , but near the end of their first run something seems to take control of their ship . . . they avoid disaster and then another dream shows them how to make a device that seems to provide air . The next time they try the ship they let the force take them to a spaceship far away . In it they meet up with some aliens . The movie goes at a rather good pace and is very funny . I really enjoyed it at the theater and so did my parents at the time . A few surprises are also included as well in this one .
A very well done time traveling game for the snes .	This game was very well done , when I first played it I knew I was in store for a very well done and well made video game . The graphics are some of the best you can hope to encounter on the super Nintendo , the music was rather good too , and throw in a very interesting story involving time traveling and you have one very complete game . The story has a boy going to his town's annual festival . He meets a girl and she proceeds to join him and they take in the sights . Well the boy goes to a friend of his special display . She and her father have invented pods that can teleport . Well its first test run goes through smoothly , however the young boy's new friend takes a turn and things do not go so well . She is transported through time and thus your adventure begins . You will travel through many times meeting new companions along the way . . . and eventually in a desolate time in the future where the world is in a very sorry state you and your friends learn of a creature called Lavos who has drained the life from the planet . You and your friends must find a way to change this future , you also must unravel the secrets of a magic kingdom in the distant past , help early man in their struggles against creatures known as reptites , and you must fight off a evil magic wielding warrior in the not to distant past and stop his reign of terror . You will even get to go to the crossroads of time itself . A very fun game , better than the sequel would be as the graphics are good in that one , but the story suffers from the introduction of to many playable characters . This one has a nice assortment of characters you get to used . You have your main character , Marla the princess in disguise , the inventor Lucca , Glen the frog knight , the robot and a gal from the distant past . Fun characters , fun things to do . This game is simply put fun .
Great comedy that they just don't make anymore .	One thing surprised me when I looked up this movie is that I did not know Harold Ramis co wrote and directed this movie . So you learn something new every day . This movie is very funny all the way through , a rarity these days . Usually , comedies now have to either have a stretch of being sentimental , or they just do toilet humor the whole way through , or you have to watch fifteen other movies just to get the jokes . This one stands on its own merit and it is funny throughout . The caddies are the central part of the movie . They aren't really the main part , but the bulk of the story goes through them . They are also the least funny part of the movie , not to say they don't have their moments ( Bill Murray did caddy , but I look at him more as a grounds keeper ) . The cast is great , but for my money the two funniest guys are Bill Murray and Rodney Dangerfield . Bill's character is very funny as I love the scene with him and the priest and Dangerfield plays a wild guy who disrupts the everyday workings of the country club where this one is set . Ted Knight is also good as a man who grows increasingly agitated by Dangerfield's presence . There is somewhat of a plot there , but it does go here and there and that is all right with me . There is also a pesky gopher , which sets up another great joke with Bill and the Scottish guy when Bill misunderstands him and this movie also made a floating Baby Ruth candy hysterical as well ( another good scene with Murray ) . Chevy Chase is in this one as well , and while he does okay he doesn't stand out like the others I have mentioned .
Dethklok . . . the band that is so metal that they usually take out a few of their fans at each concert .	Yes , this short eleven minute cartoon can be found during adult swim on the cartoon network . Yes , adult swim has Family Guy and American Dad which both first air on fox and a bunch of cartoons that they themselves . This one and Venture Brothers are my favorites , while some of them are just okay like Stroker and Hoop and Aqua Teen Hugar Force . Then there are those that just suck like Asse Mcgee and The Drinky Crow Show . This one follows the exploits of a metal band named Dethklok , a more metal band you have never seen . Made up of a wild assortment of characters which includes Nathan Explosion the lead singer , Pickles on drums , the bassist Murderface and the two foreign born guitar rockers Tokki and I think Lars . Not sure about the last name . The show is very funny as the guys in the band are so dense , yet the government deems them enough of a threat to keep constant tabs on them and try plan after plan to foil the metal band . Meanwhile , the band shows they have very little smarts as they are completely lost in a grocery store when their chef gets mangled in a slight mishap , they try to rid themselves of sickness by reading a book of tenth century remedies , and embezzle from themselves . If that is not enough they have other people come in and also add to the complications of their billionaire lifestyle like Rockso the rock and roll clown who does cocaine , or the doctor hired to perform therapy on them and their own fans on a very memorable episode . So for the most heavy metal band ever look no further than Dethklok who even starred in their own movie " Blood Ocean " .
Mad Max with zombies . . .	Yes , this movie to me was very good and action packed . However , I am not a movie critic just an average guy that likes to see loads of head shot action . If I were a movie critic I would probably say it was not very good . I was impressed that they picked up from the last one , as they did not seem to forget plot points I thought they might have from part two . The only thing missing were the little girl survivor from the last movie along with the Jill Valentine character ( which made me a bit sad ) . Still , one could just figure they died along the way so their absence by no means hindered the plot . So what is the plot , the world is overrun by the undead , infected by Umbrella's t-virus . Umbrella still exists , still experimenting for the good of themselves . Survivor's roam the lands , some by themselves . . . Alice for example , some as tightly knit roving communities on wheels that include a couple of familiar faces from part two , and then there are rednecks , who are idiots that deserve what Alice does to em . Alice meets up with her old friend and the caravan and plot a course towards possible salvation , meanwhile an Umbrella scientist once again locks in on her and needs a blood sample . Yes , this movie has loads of zombies and other nasty creatures and it has lots and lots of action . From an undead crow attack , to a Las Vegas zombie attack to a final showdown in one of Umbrella's hive facilities . This movie was very good and if this is the last one it ends on a good note in my opinion .
Milla Jovovich really stacks up the bodies in this sci-fi action flick .	I liked this movie quite a bit , and seeing how lowly it is scored here I have to say , crap why couldn't I hate it instead . Granted I did buy it and I would hate to own a movie that isn't horror that I don't care for , but man I know everyone here will think less of me now . So be it , I thought this was a very fast paced ultra cool thrill ride . It has loads of action at the front of the movie and the end , the middle is filled with plot devices and more spread apart action . The movie reminded me of two other sci-fi action movies that didn't do all that well at the box office either " Freejack " and " Johnny Mneumonic " and throw in some " Blade " and " Resident Evil " and there ya go . Milla was great in this movie , well to me anyway and I loved the action and the guns and the sword fighting . The plot has a world with people who are normal and those infected with a type of vampirism . Our hero has this disease and it makes her a serious butt kicker . She is on a mission at the beginning to retrieve a mysterious package , and this expands to her protecting a mysterious boy who may have a cure for the disease or he may just kill all the vampires . Like I said lot of action ensues . . . and Milla is just to hot in this one and I love her every changing clothes , her every changing really tight clothes . Man she has a very sexy mid section . Well anyways , I would read other reviews before deciding to see this one , because I am in the minority in really enjoying this one , however I will say give it a chance . It isn't anything original or groundbreaking , but it is rather fast paced and was not boring .
Was better than " The Ring " .	Everyone kept telling me how the original Japanese version of the Ring was better than our version so I tracked it down and finally found a copy of the Japanese version . For the most part I agree that it is quite a bit , better than our version . The story is basically the same as it revolves around a videocassette that kills anyone who watches it within a week . Though in this version , the images on the tape seem to fit the circumstances better , and more is explained in this one as well . . . though not all of it , there are still things that are unanswered . The atmosphere and mood of the movie are better than ours too , as the Japanese do not have constant music throughout , so there music cues make you a bit more edgy . The story of the girl's parents in this one is better too , and there is this thing with ESP that is simply ignored in our version . Here the father has ESP and that helps explain why the boy seems to have some sort of visions . The cast does well in this one as I think the father in this one is better than the American version . Though I did like the way the Ring looked in the American version more , and the scene where the boy told his mom that he shouldn't have helped the girl . This one ends basically looking like it has a sequel in mind , and considering there is a sequel I would have to say I am right . I hope it comes out too , as I would love to see it or any other Japanese horror , cause it seems they do a good job with horror .
Very slick and cool anime set in the future , but with monsters of the past .	This is one of those anime movies I first saw on regular television . It was very cool and unique and started my love affair with these types of cartoons . The only other anime movie I saw before this one was one called in English " Warriors of the Wind " . I saw that one when I was a bit young though and I didn't know what was going on so I can not really review it . I remember it being rather good though . The reason I like this one though is that it is sort of the old plot of a man going against vampires and wolfman and all sorts of other supernatural creatures , but there is a bit of a futuristic twist that I rather like . The story has a girl bitten by a vampire and destined to become his bride . She is in luck though as a vampire hunter named D has come to town . This guy really is a good fighter and he uses every trick in the book to take down the evil in the castle . He has a rather unique sidekick as well . Twists and turns abound in the movie as do betrayals and vengeance . This one has it all and some great animation and action as well . When I saw this one later on cinemax I was kind of surprised to see it had some brief nudity in it as well , but nothing that lasts to long . Quite frankly , that was about the only difference I saw from the television cut to the movie cut . . . not really too much of a big deal . All in all a very satisfying anime classic .
A fun movie to watch !	Sure it isn't an oscar winner , but I really enjoyed this flick . Jolie is great as Laura Croft . There are problems with the film , however , one of which is the lack of any other memorable characters . This is ok though , because I paid to see Jolie . The movie could have used one more action sequence as well and she could have used her guns more at the end , but all in all it was a fun film to watch . I loved the fact that in the one temple the stone guardian came to life just as in the tomb raider 3 game . There is also a great fight sequence in her home as well . I just wish she wore shorts more in the film .
One cool werewolf movie .	This movie has a lot of other movies it shares things in common with . It has a little of " Predator " in it . It also has a little " Dead Alive " and " Night of the Living Dead " in it as well . It has other movies too , but this one is a very good werewolf movie . This one revolves around a troop sent into the woods for training exercises . They uncover another team that appears to have been ripped to shreds . The good news is that these people who were killed left behind lots of weapons , and seeing how the other troop only had guns that fire blanks it is a good thing . The bad news is that all these weapons are fully loaded ; whatever killed these guys did so , so quickly that the soldiers never even had a chance to return fire . There is one survivor who has a giant claw mark in his chest . The soldiers eventually find out that there are werewolves out in the woods and they find a girl who drives them to a farmhouse where the army men must hold out till dawn when hopefully the werewolves will return to normal . Great flick , people always told me this one was worth checking out and they were right . The only problem I had was understanding the actors at times as they really had some heavy accents . . . don't know if they were British or Scottish . You can understand them for the most part though ; it is just at times they say something that you don't hear right and at others they will say a " saying " and you won't be sure what they are meaning . Other than that though this one was really cool .
A good action western .	I usually do not go for westerns , but this one looked rather good on the trailers so I gave it a try . It exceeded expectations and was a good movie to me . I thought it could have cut a few scenes here and there , but all in all it was very entertaining . Though I highly doubt all the things that happened in the movie happened in real life as claimed by the makers of the film , I think the guy this movie is based on was probably a good story teller . This one has a cowboy whose specialty is long distance races going to the Middle East to race there because they do not like the claim that he is the best long distance racer there is . Which is fair enough considering it does not look like there is all that much desert terrain in the United States . This race is very dangerous and it makes you thirsty just to watch it . Of course there are many trials and obstacles along the way including his fellow racers who hate the idea of a Mustang horse competing in the race . Though you know a Mustang has to be a rather fast and strong horse because they named a rather good car after it . All in all a very good action movie that the entire family can enjoy .
A feast for gore fans .	Yes , this movie is rather gory , and it has a rather dark sense of humor , but it is also rather good . I enjoyed this movie which while nothing new in respects to the old locked in the house surrounded by killers routine it manages to do a few new tricks here and there to surprise you . Basically like " Night of the Living Dead " , " Dog Soldiers " , and " From Dusk till Dawn " this movie has a group of people at their local bar just passing the night away as per the usual . Of course , it wouldn't be much of a movie if that was all there was to it . . . no just when we get acquainted with the characters in comes a character bloody and with a gun shouting warnings of an impending attack by monsters . Well the monsters do attack and there is lots of death and blood and people are eaten . The monsters do more than that too , but I will not go into any more detail than that . So who will live and who will die and who will be shot by panicking people are some of the many questions to be answered . Don't expect any information on the monsters , however , as they are just here to kill and have no origins in this movie . Which of course could result in a sequel , but then perhaps they will leave well enough alone and take this movie as is with nothing more to say .
Very gruesome and claustrophobic zombie movie .	In 1985 this zombie movie virtually went by unnoticed except for many Romero fans . It was virtually dead a week or two after it hit the theaters . Many attribute its failings to the other many horror films released that year including " Re-Animator " , " Fright Night " , and " Return of the Living Dead " . All these movies were R though and day was not . Romero stuck to his guns and made a very gory movie . Unfortunately , when dawn was released there were still many independent theaters , but by 1985 the chains had taken over and one thing chains do is not show movies like this . So it went by unnoticed and those that did notice it usually had nothing good to say about it other than the zombies looked really good . So suffice to say , I wasn't expecting much when I bought this movie except the zombies would look good . However , I am happy to report that I was very pleasantly surprised . The movie mainly takes place in an underground facility though there is the scene at the beginning in the town . I wish there were more scenes above ground as the one there is , is very well done . In the underground facility there is a lot of bickering between some scientists and some army guys who look and act nothing like army guys . Then again who knows how long they have been down there so people are bound to crack . There are also a couple of guys who may be army , but act like civilians and definitely have cooler heads than the rest of them . There is also a doctor who is trying to teach the zombies how to be more docile . All the wildness and arguing eventually leads to a major meltdown which leads to of course zombies penetrating the base and this leads to a very good gory finish . Not quite as good as Dawn , but not as far off as I was lead to believe this movie is very entertaining .
Not only does the Silver Surfer rise , but also the rest of the Fantastic Four .	This is a summer movie to be sure . It has action , comedy , and a little heart as well . It is not going to win awards , it is not going to be hailed as a cinematic masterpiece , but it is still a very good movie . Add to that it is also short , something all summer movies should aspire to do . Granted , when first I heard of the running time I thought for sure this film would be underdeveloped , however my fears proved groundless as this movie's story was very well done with no loose ends unlike some movie's this year that ran nearly twice as long . I liked it better than the first movie as the comedy was funny and the action was rather nice too . The story has a mysterious force on Earth causing a bit of havoc as water is turned to glass and snow in the deserts . Even strange occurrences happen in Lateveria which is trouble for all . The Fantastic Four though are trying to make a wedding happen while balancing being super heroes and celebrities . The army wants Reed's help to track the force and Reed does , though without Susan's knowledge . Well the big wedding day occurs and it is promptly interrupted by a mysterious being seemingly made of Silver and riding what appears to be a surf board . The Fantastic Four must stop this being and find out his motivations before there is real trouble . Though they do get help in the form of Dr . Doom , which let's face it is probably going to be trouble later on . So yes , there is some good action , comedy and very good special effects . A great fight at the end with who you want to see the Fantastic Four fighting and a nifty climax featuring a very close call . To top it all off you also get out of the movie theater before you age a great deal as well .
A very good action game with a very cool character . . . Kratos .	Yes , this game was very fun and well worth the 14 . 99 I paid for it on sale . The story has Kratos as a man hell bent on revenge . The target for his revenge , Ares the god of war . Ares has his own plans as he is trying to take down Aphrodite , she is using Kratos though to take him down . So you have your double crosses and such . Why is Kratos wanting revenge , well Ares tricked Kratos into killing his own family so there ya go . The combat in this game is very fun , simple to do yet it looks very cool . You do cool combos and nifty looking finisher type moves on various mythical creatures . You span a few levels as you start with a cool ship scene and also an attack on a city , you also have to go through this strange fortress on top of a giants back . My favorite level though is the hades level as it looks really awesome . Speaking of awesome , the graphics here are just that . From the giant Minotaur's , to the super scenery , and to the falling people in the hades level everything here looks exceptional . My only complaint is the rather short play time and the shortage of boss fights which is a shame , because the ones they do have are very fun . So for a fun game that offers a challenge , but does not make you rip your hair out give this game a try . Add to that you even get to see some boobies ! ! !
A horror science fiction action movie so good it almost makes you uncomfortable to watch .	I saw this one in the theaters as a kid with my mom . I was only eleven , but I really liked the looks of this one from the previews , besides I had an alien toy from the original " Alien " movie so I always liked the way it looked . It was creepy and seeing a whole mess of aliens vs marines was to much for me to pass up . My mom took me because she liked the first one too and we had a good time . Of its faults its main one is not really a fault . That is that the movie puts you the viewer in with these people who are in a very dire situation . It makes you nervous that they may not make it out alive and there are very much doubts to whether they will survive the ordeal . No matter how many times I see it I feel this way . Still though what you came to see is also present . . . future army guys ( the marines ) going against an army of aliens . Still the movie builds up rather slowly at first , this lures you into the world of the alien , then it rockets you in with a fire fight where you see very little of the aliens , then finally there is an all out assault . I will not say much about this assault , but to say the marines do not do to well . After this Ripley ( Weaver ) must brave the hoard of aliens alone in an attempt to rescue a little girl all the while a reactor on this planet is about to blow the place sky high . With this alien movie you are in for a wild ride .
For me a super comedy . . . which spells box office poison .	Yes , when I like a comedy it is usually not a big money maker at the box office , for some reason my humor and the rest of mainstream America's humor just is not the same . So the story , boy tries to ask girl out , girl initially refuses , boy does something to impress girl , girl goes out with him , girl reveals she is a super hero , girl turns into jealous psychopath , boy breaks up with girl , all hell breaks loose . You know the typical love story . I don't know I just found this movie very funny . . . the effects were rather good for a goofy comedy and it had a very likable cast . I love Uma here , she can play a rather plain person at times and one who is ultra sexy , here she plays both . Luke Wilson is also great as the boyfriend . He is very good in his role and comes off as a friendly nice kind of guy . Well the plot proceeds differently than I expected as there are a few parts of the plot I didn't expect . However , for me it was a very funny comedy . . . so that should probably tell you to stay away from it .
Lots of action and comedy in this DBZ movie .	This one features more fighting and comedy than most of the movies to this point . This one features a mistake that leads to the birth of a creature named Janemba . It promptly takes over otherworld and the dead come back to life on earth . Gohan , Videl , Trunks , and Goten go to stop the more rowdy ones while Goku and this green guy named Pikan try and solve the problem from their side . The fighting is top notch as you see Goku turn SSJ 3 for the first time in a movie . . . at first Janemba seems rather playful and harmless ( kind of like Buu ) , but after he is seemingly beaten he turns into a very destructive creature . Vegeta comes to help and they must perform fusion to beat this new threat . Meanwhile , Trunks and Goten battle Hitler and his army ( don't ask ) . My main complaint is the battle between the fused Vegeta and Goku and the villain does not last very long at all . Otherwise though this one is very entertaining and it has a very funny scene where the fusion does not work very well .
Goten and Trunks go it alone .	This movie features basically : Goten , Trunks , No . 18 , Krillin , and Mr . Satan . Goku makes a brief appearance , but for the most part this movie is Goten's and Trunk's . Mr . Satan must face down a challenge and the two kids and No . 18 accompany him and do all the fighting as Mr . Satan must keep promising to pay 18 what he owes . What they find is a bio-labratory where the super strong Brolli has been reborn . Goten and Trunks must face him down with their only help Krillin and 18 and also must watch out for this purple ooze that absorbs everything in its path . This one could use a bit more , but it is one of the funnier movies in the series .
One of the first games I got when I first got the Nintendo system .	Yes , this game was a bit ground breaking in its day . An action game like no other I had played at the time as it was the first game I could save in and stop playing and pick up the game at another time where I had left off . It was also the first game I had personally played that had ending credits . It was also relatively simple to pick up on as I was rather young when I first played it . The story is rather simple , a boy named Link goes on a quest to save the princess Zelda from the evil Ganon by collecting pieces of an object known as the triforce . He goes through numerous dungeons to find the pieces and also must traverse a very large over world filled with many monsters and locales such as desert , sea , and cemeteries . He receives help from various people including an old man who provides him with a wooden sword to begin his quest . You also have grouches who proceed to take your money if you damage their door . You are also given life by faeries . The combat is simple for the most part , strike your enemies down with your sword . You usually collect objects in dungeons that help you continue further in your quest all the way to Death Mountain . The game could use a bit more depth and the enemies get rather annoying near the end , however this game was a game I could not put down when I first got it to the point I saw that screen shift when I would first go to bed after playing it so much .
The best graphics in the series to date , however I still think " Abyss " was a bit better overall .	This one is not far off from " Abyss " as it does have stunning graphics , great music , and the usual fun assortment of characters . However , I thought that the story was not as strong as " Abyss " as that game featured one surprise after the other , a well established set of villains , and it featured a rather different world in the form of the underground lake of miasma . The story in " Symphonia " was better too , however the graphics are so much better here than there that I give this one the slight edge over that one . The fighting is typical real time battles found in the " Tales " series , however this one has some of the best combat thanks to a nice assortment of cool artes and kill strikes that make defeating an enemy boss especially satisfying . Also , Yuri is probably one of the smoothest fighters in a " Tales " game as well . . . though Senel from " Legendia " still has to be the smoothest of them all in my opinion . The story , it is a bit complicated in some areas , however , the gist of it is that Yuri a man living in a town protected by a barrier that keeps out monsters is out to get a guy who stole the lower quarters ( the poor section of town ) aqua blastia . What is a blastia you ask ? Well it basically has many functions in the game as it can help aid a person in combat , shield a town from monsters , and a ton of other things . Let's just say a lot of the plot revolve around these objects . Well Yuri ends up in prison where he is released by a mysterious man and ends up helping a mysterious young woman named Estellise . So Yuri and this girl along with Yuri's dog Repede head out of the town in search of a friend of Yuri's named Flynn who was the subject of an assassination attempt by a mad man named Zagi . Well before you know it your characters run into a youth named Karol who wants to start his own guild , a mage girl named Rita and later own by a dragon rider named Judith and the mystery man who helped Yuri get out of jail , Raven . The game also revolves around the empire and guilds which operate independently from the empire . Your little group ends up forming their own guild called Brave Vesperia . There are also beings known as Entelexia involved too , so yes there is a bit much going on when one of the villains revealed themselves at the end I had a hard time recalling the last time I had seen him , there is a villain named Yeagor who is never really fully developed and his twin girl helpers are a virtual enigma as they have no details revealed about them . Thank goodness for Zagi who just simply wanted to fight the hero , Yuri . Still , this game was fun and it did have a nice ending , better than " Abyss " , and it was sort of neat having a character that was not a villain that played such an important part in the story as Flynn did . You even get to fight along side him briefly . So all in all another in the " Tales " games . . . different than say Final Fantasy , but in many ways just as fun .
Wow , watching the Japanese version makes quite a bit of difference .	Yes , I have seen the rather cheesy Americanized version of this film with the obviously inserted Raymond Burr scenes and while you do get to see Godzilla crush Tokyo you miss most the the plot from the original Japanese version . The Japanese version is very well done and has a very good story , which for some reason we felt like changing . I don't know why , there really isn't any overtly anti-American messages to be found , rather a message against Japan's own nuclear testing and the dangers of said weapon to all people . So suffice to say this movie has a giant monster who comes out of the ocean , apparently a dinosaur that was entrapped in some underwater area where it remained undetected for millions of years . . . a nuclear test has not only released the beast it has horribly mutated it as well to a much bigger radioactive super beast . So scientist and military and politicians must now find a way to destroy the beast before it destroys all of Japan . The movie is very good and rather sad at the same time . The sweeping march on Tokyo is very well done as there is a rather good scene of a mother with her children surrounded by flames trying to comfort her kids by saying they will be with their father soon . Also a very good ending and very sad ending . It is also an ending in the Japanese version that warns that other Godzilla's may emerge and indeed they do as the next Godzilla to emerge would actually never be killed and end up being somewhat of a hero , kind of funny they did turn one of the most effective destructive monsters scarred by radiation into a hero , however I liked those Godzilla movies as well .
Lucas pulls the last bit of magic he has out of the hat to make a very good end to an otherwise mediocre trilogy .	Finally , a Star Wars movie that lives up to the original trilogy has been made . However , as with the Matrix three where I say you can just about skip the last two I say you can skip the first two of this one and enjoy it for what it is , the turning of Anakin to the dark side of the force . Lucas provides enough back story that you really need not see Phantom Menace or Attack of the Clones to enjoy this one . Not that this movie is perfect , Anakin's and his love's scenes are still a bit awkward , however the scenes with him and the future emperor are very good . And of course the action scenes and special effects are done to perfection . Particularly the action scenes here . Could have used a bit more of Christopher Lee's character , however even in the short time he is on screen he still makes his presence felt . This movie though is all about Anakin's final turn toward the dark side , the forces that finally drive him to the deadly destiny that would make him feared throughout the galaxy . The highlight of this one comes at the end as two breathtaking duels take place and evil begins to take a strong place and an empire is born . And thankfully , Jar Jar is a virtual no show with only a brief appearance and no speaking lines . . . though I do wish he was killed still . One thought I have though about Lucas that has come about is that considering I think Empire Strikes Back the best of the original series and this one of the newer one , he seems to make the best movie when bad triumphs over good .
A rare comedy for me . . . I actually thought it was funny all the way through .	Usually , when I go to the theater to see a comedy I end up finding it rather disappointing . It either has periods where there is nothing funny going on , or all the best stuff was shown on the trailers so you really see nothing new . This one broke that trend for me and I just thought it was one of the funniest comedies I have seen at the theater . " Pirates of the Caribbean " is another rare comedy that I enjoyed at the theater . What made this one were Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson . They are really funny together and there is chemistry there . After watching this one I think I want to try and find " Zoolander " and see if it is any good . This movie has the two as the cops from the old television show of the same name . I never saw much of the show , but you don't really need too as I thought most of the jokes were not really dependent on seeing the show . And this one works better than most of the television shows turned movies for me because this one actually set the movie in the time when the show ran . They usually put the show in the here and now , but not in this case . There are also plenty of ladies in bikinis to look at as well . There are very funny scenes all through the movie my favorites were the ones involving the interrogation , the one with Will Ferrell , and the one involving the kid throwing the knives . The other cast members were good as well and surprisingly Snoop Dog was very good as Huggy Bear . Vince Vaughn was also rather good as the villain . All in all a funny comedy that entertains throughout .
Connery and Cage make this pretty good action movie into an excellent one .	Yes , Connery and Cage have a chemistry and acting ability to make this movie that probably would have been just okay with other actors turn into a really fun action movie . Cage is a guy who is an expert at deactivating weapons , especially chemical ones , and Connery is a man who is locked up for life , but once escaped the infamous Alcatraz prison . What brings them together , former military men led by Ed Harris have taken hostages on the island prison of Alcatraz and they are threatening to launch chemical weapons into the heart of San Francisco if their demands are not met . What ensues is pure action as we have car chases through the streets of San Fran , we have special forces slipping into the prison , and we have many gun fights between forces . Still though Connery and Cage stand above everyone else and really make this movie rise a notch or two above what it would have been without them as they add some humorous dialog into the film . If I had a complaint it would be that the Ed Harris character does not make a very good bad guy as you almost feel sympathetic to him . However , plenty of the other soldiers in his charge are more typical bad guys for you to pull against . All in all a fun action ride that has one of my favorite actors in it , Sean Connery .
Iron Man propels himself to the big screen .	Not the biggest Iron Man fan of the comics , however , I usually only see comic book movies these days so I of course had to see this one . In the end I was happy with the result . The story , is the origins of Iron Man so you basically get to witness the events that made Tony Stark the leader of his own company who is a bit fly by night kind of guy is also quite immature into someone willing to risk his life to save people across the world as Iron Man . You get to see the suite take life and all that good stuff . As usual with Marvel adaptations you get some good humor as well as I really enjoyed the scenes of him testing out his suit and trying to perfect flight . Robert Downey Jr . is quite frankly very good here . He portrays someone that is good at just building devices seemingly at will very good as I would expect someone like that to be kind of high energy . You also get to see in this movie a rather good fight at the end too . However , I do have a complaint . . . and although it did not make me hate the movie or anything it did make me not give this movie a ten . I would have liked to have seen a bit more Iron Man functioning at 100 % a bit more . I just rather him be at full force in that last battle as he seemed like he would be the underdog even if he was fully charged . A minor complaint to say the least , but I just thought I would bring it up . However , the ending was rather good and different , nice to see a super hero movie not end with the hero flying off or sitting on a rooftop for a change .
The start of an epic story . . .	Yes this is my type of role-playing game , more story less action , less fighting to level up and so forth . If that is not your kind of game , then I would suggest you skip this series , however , I thought it was great . . . though not as good as Xenogears , the game this may or may not be a prequel to . The only reason I say may or may not is that it ends suddenly in part three and it does not all add up to what Xenogears picks up . This game basically stars a cute gal named Shion , get to know her well as she is the focus of this series . During this part of the story you are mainly introduced to the characters and the villains . You get your intrigue and you get your Gnosis , strange creatures seemingly unbeatable at first . The fighting is turned based and fairly fun , however , the inclusion of robots in this particular games seems rather underdeveloped . For the most part they are rather pointless . Still you get your good story and the ending is good too , though almost nothing big gets done and no real surprises in the first edition . All in all though a good game where the only real flaw is the lack of variety in the music during fights and such .
Great shark flick .	Definately the best movie ever about a killer shark . . . Jaws is set in a resort town and is of course about a shark terrorizing said town . All the actors in this one do a great job , but the person who does the best job is Robert Shaw who plays a shark hunter . Roy Shieder plays a sheriff of the town and Richard Dreyfuss plays a marine biologist of sorts . There is great tension throughout the movie and some good comedy here and there as well . The shark attack scenes are pretty good too , especially the one when you see the shark go for the one guy after the kids boat is tipped over . The first part of the movie is the town , and the second is the boat scenes and them tracking the shark . The movie though could have had at least one more shark attack though , as I think they go off to hunt it to fast . Though the interplay between the three main characters is at its best in the boat scenes .
The best of the series so far , still a disappointment in some regards .	Seeing as how they had to make this one the conclusion despite the fact they were going for a six parter the makers of this game did a relatively good job on the story . However , one can not help but feel there is an entire episode of the Xenosaga series left out between this one and part two . As there is a giant piece of the story that you can only find about if you read the story in the area provided in the menu screen . Still , this one wraps up quite nicely despite all of that and the story keeps you wondering what is going to happen next . The ending is a bit bizarre and might even offend some , but hey it surprised me . Shion and the gang are getting closer to finding out the cause of it all , the mysterious force that seems to be guiding all into an epic battle . The fight is the best yet as you have many cool moves to perform , and the robots are great . . . my only complaint is that they had no place in the final battle as I had my robots super strong and nearly unbeatable by the end . There are also characters that did not get their fair shake of the story either , such as Ziggy . You only get a brief peek as to what it is all about for him . Still , he had one uber cool moved called choke that had to be the best fight move ever in a role-playing game . The music is great this time and even though this is the end a sequel door was still left open . So be prepared for the most emotional of the three Xenosagas as this one is very sad , however it is also sort of happy in the end .
Fun movie , lots of gore and action .	First off , this movie had to be done with a rather small budget cause all the action takes place in these woods . There are no sets or anything . That and the sound is off a bit the whole movie , I am guessing they voiced over all the lines . On the positive side though , they didn't hold back any money on the gore effects cause there are some good gore shots in this one that reminds me of the Italian horror movies of the late 70's early 80's . However , this movie is not really a horror movie . . . sure there are zombies , but this one is more action and comedy . The action is rather good , but the highlight for me was when the zombies that were buried there by the criminals were attacking . After that the action isn't quite as good as nothing really compares to that scene including the final fight , which was okay , but could have been better . All in all though it was a fun movie that was really enjoyable to watch . Does have some strange moments though like the two guys looking for the prison escapees . You wonder what they were even doing in the movie , that is until the one scene where the one guy tries to do Keanu Reeve's move from the Matrix . . . let's just say it doesn't work very well in the real world especially when you are being shot at with a howitzer .
Doesn't really follow the comic at all , but still enjoyable .	This movie mainly focuses on Wolverine and Rogue . Cyclops , Jean Grey , Professor X , Storm are also present along with a few others doing brief apperances . The villians are Magneto , Mystique , Sabretooth , and Toad . As you can see as much as I liked this movie there were quite a few characters and its short running times meant you really couldn't dwell on anyone to long . And as good as this one is the next one sounds as if it will just to many characters period . The people who made this one though were smart enough to focus on Wolverine and he was the best character in this one . I was disappointed to see Iceman a student at Prof X's school seeing as how he is one of the founding members in the comic book , but this movie , unlike Spiderman doesn't really follow the comic book much at all except for their powers and in some cases not even then .
Almost a plotless movie .	But I like it anyway . This one follows a kind of a street fighter played by Clint Eastwood as he tries to find this gal he had a fling with . Accompanying him is his pal and his pet orangutan . There is a plot to some extent , but this movie really just kind of goes from here to there . My favorites are the bad biker gang the Black Widows who constantly get the crap kicked out of them by whoever they fight . There are other very funny scenes as Ruth Gordon is also great in this one . This was in the time where Sandra Locke was in every Clint Eastwood movie and she is in this one too . That had to be a case of someone who got roles more because who she was dating . This one goes from place to place and fight to fight and there is no great super ending , but a nice simple one instead . All in all a nice , fun , comedy to watch .
A highly visual world created for your enjoyment .	This game just proves you do not need to have computer generated film sequences in a game to make it good , instead why not just make the entire game a wonderful visual experience . That is what they did here as the game is just stunning to look at , it is like watching a very well done cartoon . In fact , the characters were designed by the guy who did DragonBall Z and it most certainly shows . The story has a king and his beautiful daughter cursed . . . he is now turned into a troll like creature and she , while still beautiful , is now a horse . They are traveling to find a way to end the curse of themselves and their home , as the castle is now overrun with thorns . They are accompanied by a young man who was a guard at the castle and somehow escaped everyone else's fate of being turned to thorns and a thief they meet along the way named Yangus . Who could have brought about such terror you ask , a strange magician clown that goes by the name Dhoulmagus . Most of the game you are tracking him in an attempt to break the curse , and along the way you meet two more allies in the form of the very lovely Jessica and Angelo a man who has a special place in his heart for the ladies . During your adventures you will run across many fiends and many lovely locales . And some not so lovely as you will find out in the thieve's paradise of Pickham . You even get to see a lovely winter land and a strange land with virtually no color . You sail the seas and soar through the skies , though not in the old standby airship . The fighting is turned based , nothing to complicated to pick up , you do have your special attacks and you can psyche yourself and make your attacks that much more effective . The only complaints I have for the game is that getting money and upgrading your equipment can be a pain as is using the alchemy pot ( though that has its pluses too ) . Then there is the music , which is not bad , but it is not varied enough for my tastes . However , the game is overall very enjoyable and it has a very sweet ending that I thought was one of the better endings I have seen in a role playing game .
I liked it .	I have watched my fair share of dubbed foreign movies in my time . I have also seen a lot of subtitled movies . I prefer subtitled because with dubbing I always felt that sometimes the people dubbing the movie were leaving stuff out or changing what the characters said just to fit their mouths . Here we have a guy who not only changes what they say to a ridiculous degree , he also added himself to the flick . This movie is actually an old martial arts movie . The dubbing has been changed though and some new scenes were added . I found this movie very hilarious . Though it is probably just me , as this one didn't score very well . I don't care though cause it just worked for me . I usually find with comedies though that I prefer the obscure stuff to the more mainstream hits that usually show all the highlights in the trailers . The weakest parts of this one are the scenes that were added to the movie while the best stuff is when the main character interjects himself into the movie or adds things to the original movie . Though none of it to me was particularly weak . You may want to read other reviews though as this is not a comedy for every one .
A movie where the hero isn't the best fighter .	This is a very good and funny action movie . My main complaints around this one revolve around the beginning and the end . I do not think the opening scene was necessary and it took away any surprise you might have received . Wong basically shows you that the movie is more than just another kung fu movie as he demonstrates magic . I think it would have been more effective to wait till the three storm guys showed up . I did not care for the ending . Kurt has a great last line , but then they have one more scene in his truck that is more like the ending of one of those bad horror movies . Other than that though this one is a really fast paced action movie . I love Kurt as the average guy sucked in a world of really high flying karate and magic . This movie has a lot of comedy as well . Kurt loses his truck , his friend loses his fiancé so they have to work together to get both back , plus the friend owes Kurt a substantial sum of money . They have to go through the lair of this really strange old man whose body guards include these guys known as the three storms . They are Rain , Lightening , and Thunder . Their opening scene is quite impressive as they appear to be pretty much invincible . All in all this movie is one heck of a wild ride .
Fun game with lush environments . . . best one of the series .	Yes , of the games featuring these characters this one is still my favorite of them all . Granted the story is not as dark , however I as a gamer do not necessarily like my games dark all the time . They made the same mistake in the Prince of Persia saga too , trying to cater to the Grand Theft Auto set of people . This game features two buddies snooping where they should not , the one named Daxter soon falls into a vat of something called dark eco and is transformed into a fuzzier version , granted this does not stop his wisecracking which is the highlight for me for the entire series . Jak is the silent protagonist here and I prefer that a bit more to the talker he becomes . Well Jak and Daxter must navigate the world finding the legendary sages so that they might help not only Daxter , but the world from a dark threat looming in the background . The graphics are great as they really show distance very well . At the beginning you go to an island from the island you can see the mainland , from the mainland you can see the island . The game is filled with areas where you can see in the distance where you must go and where you were . The action is performed via standard platform gaming with your jumping and spin attacks on enemies . The controls are simple and for the most part the game is not the type to make you pull your hair out . The environments are great as you navigate tropical locals , snowy mountain tops , and fire filled mine shafts and you get some top notch boss fights too . It is a shame they did not stick to this formula for future games though . Not that the others are bad , but they just do not match this one in fun .
Smashingly good fun .	Better in every way to the 2003 film , this movie is another in a line of films that will set up the Avengers movie on the big screen . Iron Man was a better film on the whole , however , I thought this one had by far the better final showdown fight . The story has Bruce Banner on the run from General Ross and the army as they want the incredible power that resides in Banner . They wish to create their own super soldiers . There is a great chase scene in I think Rio and of course the transformation and the first meeting of the Hulk and a soldier named Emil Blonsky . Bruce goes on the run again and makes his way to the university where Betty Ross works in order to find data on the gamma experiment to send information to a scientist that Bruce has been communicating with in hopes of a cure . Meanwhile , Blonsky is given a super soldier serum and the next encounter with the Hulk ends up with him being nearly killed . Finally , Blonsky gains the ultimate power and it is up to Bruce and his mean green alter ego to save the day . The action in this one is great , the Hulk looks rather good as does the Abomination and their fight is one of the better ones in a comic book based movie , especially between two super strong characters . The only complaints I have is that the feel of the movie is just not right . It feels like you jump in the middle of a story that needed a bit more background . I just do not know how to say it , unlike Iron Man , something feels off . So good movie yes , but Iron Man is still the top avenger so far .
On second thought this one is very good .	The first time I saw this movie was on the sci-fi channel and the movie had pieces cut from it and it was badly dubbed . I bought the DVD and watched it and it was a lot better than the sci-fi experience . First off the music is great when you listen to it in stereo , secondly the effects are really good for a Godzilla movie . My major complaint it seems was simply Godzilla's appearance in the movie . It is a major jolt when one is used to the Godzilla of the previous two movies , but on seeing it again it looks rather good , and very evil ( still a bit two dumpy , but I got over this time ) . In this movie , Godzilla is on a rampage . . . a rampage where he isn't just stumbling through the city causing damage because of his size , but rather causing damage because he wants to kill the people of Japan and make them suffer . Many of his most deplorable acts were cut from the sci-fi version , but on DVD you get to see him cause lots of pain on purpose . Who can stop the rampaging Godzilla . . . well we have Mothra , Baragon , and King Gidorah , but quite frankly these monsters just can not stand up to the power of this evil super Godzilla . So the military also pitches in with their full arsenal . Very interesting characters abound in a reporter and her military dad and various other interesting people . All of them with one goal : To stop the onslaught of Godzilla .
A very effective action movie .	This is one of those movies so effective in its delivery that it almost makes you uncomfortable to watch . You have your cop in a giant office building that has been overrun with high tech bank robbers posing as terrorist , and his wife is one of the hostages . Not only that , but the poor guy doesn't have any shoes which really makes an uncomfortable scene when the glass starts to fly . Willis is great as the lead character and Rickman does an excellent job as the bad guy as does the other guy who was a Russian dancer or something before defecting here . Great performances by the other members of the cast as well . The action is great , though at times they really seem to be throwing it at our hero and things seem to be going badly . Many memorable action scenes including the roof explosion and McClain ( Willis ) swinging to safety on a fire hose , his many encounters with said villains and a particularly good ending with the main villain . Don't think it is all action however , as Bruce Willis adds some comedy by means of very funny quips that add a lot to the flick . Still though at its heart it is an action movie first and the action comes fast and furious .
Nice to see a Romero zombie movie at the theater .	I enjoyed this zombie flick , very good and it had lots and lots of zombies . In fact , it was really gory too for an R rated movie , I think it even lived up to the gore level of " Day of the Dead " . In this one zombies have pretty much overrun the place , except for a few cities where the last of humanity has holed up . One of these cities is the focus here , a place where the rich live in luxury and the poor are living , well poorly . They are given a few perks though in the way of hookers , gambling , and other vices . Sad that money would still be a concern when the world is being taken over by flesh craving zombies . Flesh craving zombies that are apparently getting smarter with tools and such , ones that get ticked off when you kill their friends . Still the slow moving zombies of other Romero films though , and I prefer that this time as I have seen enough recent zombie flicks with the uber fast moving zombies . There are people that use a giant vehicle called the Dead Reckoning to raid nearby towns for food and other supplies , the leader is ready to leave the city and go somewhere where there are no people as he is getting tired of the ways things are run in the town . However , all does not go smoothly as the leader of the city wants the guy to stay , the super vehicle gets stolen by another who wants more money and the zombies are searching for a weak point in the cities defenses . This zombie movie features one of the best and long zombie attack scenes ever for a zombie movie and one of the best scenes of the zombies emerging from the water reminiscent of " Shock Waves " . A very good dead movie done by the father of dead movies Romero .
Great Action-horror flick .	This is a great zombie flick to watch . There is action , horror , and even a bit of comedy . The movie is about four people who escape , I believe , Philidelphia . The dead have risen and are causing a major hassle so the cities are under marshal law . People aren't even allowed to stay in their own homes . Well the two swat guys meet while raiding a housing project full of people who I guess are going against the marshal law and living in their dwelling . Peter and Roger ( the two swat guys ) seem to become friends and Roger tells Peter that he has a copter waiting to get out of the city . Well they meet up with Steve and Francine and they use the copter to escape the city . They end up holding up in a huge mall . What makes this movie works is that you want the four to survive and they are placed in one tense moment after another . You also get to see their friendship develop as they hold up in the mall . And you get really ticked off when the biker gang comes and messes everything up . One complaint about this movie is the music . They played some good music , but a lot of it was annoying mall music which was OK in some parts , but overdone in other scenes where it made scenes that would have been a bit more creepy without it .
A really fun zombie movie with lots of gore . . . no I mean lots of GORE ! ! !	This movie was just great , one of the better zombie spoofs out there , and yes it is more a spoof than a serious movie . I laughed quite a few times at this one . Story , what story who cares ? Well there sort of is one . Seems a chemical has been released and it is of course causing people to be zombies . We have a rather good cast of characters which includes a very fine looking Rose McGowan . The zombie outbreak takes a bit to get going , but when it finally does there is buckets of blood as it just spews out everywhere to a very insane extent . We have our hero who is great with guns , I mean they prove it by him spinning them around . Well actually it did not look all that impressive , but the characters in the movie were just looking at him in awe . Then there is the mother of a child whose doctor husband is a tad crazy . She loves her child , but I question her one decision . Then there is the great revelation of our hero , to bad the reel was missing at that point . And anyone who thinks what occurred during the missing reel scene was actually shot , has no sense of humor . So we have some Texas barbecue , some zombies , and a hot chick with a gun leg doing stripper moves ( pardon me go go dancer moves ) while she blasts away the zombies . Yes , this movie had it all . Though surprisingly it had a couple of slow bits to , not that it deters from the movie a lot , but they were noticeable .
Sorry about that Harris	From the comments written I was not sure what to expect when I finally watched it . I read reviews where people hated the movie and called it a gorefest and those who liked it . I fall in the category of someone who enjoyed watching this film . Does it have flaws ? Yes . The movie , however , overcomes them in that it is a rather fast-paced horror film where there are deaths throughout . Not just one at the beginning and no more till the end . There are no stupid teenagers whose primary objective is to use every cuss word and phrase in the book , there are no scenes where you hear the music tense up and a hand goes on someone's shoulder and it is just a person's buddy or that old security guard ( in this movie when that happens it is in fact something that is going to kill someone ) . This movie is also no mere gorefest in my opinion . The director does a good job of establishing atmosphere in this flick and he leaves you with many questions at the end . Many of these questions could have been answered , but the evil forces are like 5 steps ahead of all the people so the poor people never have a chance to find anything out before it is to late . The movie also creates tension . In the scenes when the zombies attack a man uses a gun and starts shooting them . It is obvious that the zombies die from one head shot , but our hero continuely shoots into the body . I believe the director did this so you would scream at the screen , " Shoot them in the head dummy " . It makes you part of the film that way . It also leaves things to the imagination . Like how did the blind woman escape from " The Beyond " ? One problem I had with the film though was the death of Harris . They could have easily had him killed by the zombies , instead our hero shoots a gun into a window for some reason and the glass flies into Harris ' face with his eyes closed and he doesn't even scream . Apparently the hero just leaves and I had to say " Sorry about that Harris " , and had a chuckle . By the way there is a plot to this film and that is when the gates of hell are opened all hell breaks loose .
For fans of the video game .	This movie is definitely for fans of " Final Fantasy VII " the video game . In fact , if you have never played the game then there will be little for you in this movie . Granted you will see some very amazing cgi action sequences and some great fights , unfortunately however , you will not understand much about the story at all . For fans though we get to see the characters we love once again take on a threat upon the world . Seems there is a mysterious illness affecting the people of the world and a strange gang have come onto the scene seeking their " Mother " . Cloud has the illness too and it is causing him to doubt his abilities , along with lingering guilt over the death of Aerith . Still he fights the best he can over this new threat , which actually has origins stemming from an old nemesis . The battle sequences are great as is the cgi work and the story is rather good too . Though I wish the characters were in it a bit more as we hardly see anyone aside from Cloud and Tifa until the very end . However , this is understandable as this is a movie and it would be hard to focus on everyone .
It really was his wife's party .	This movie is a very good tale of a house that may or may not be haunted . This version is better than the newer one , mainly because Vincent Price is so good here , much better than anyone in the new version made in 1999 . It is also relatively short and goes by quickly . This movie has some of the same plot elements of the one from 1999 , but thankfully the ending to this one is a lot better . I really enjoyed it , as I was hoping the one character would come out on top . This one is about a party being held in an old house that is supposed to be haunted . The people were invited by Price's character and offered $10 , 000 dollars if they were to stay the entire night . There is tension between Price's character and his wife , there is a girl who is very nervous and wants to leave immediately , and then there is the doctor who does not believe in ghosts . There are three others as well who are invited to stay the night . During the night strange things happen as one of the guests is murdered and there seems to be supernatural things happening . A very well done movie that for me ended perfectly .
Another funny entry in the series , actually my favorite .	Yes , I am sure most people probably prefer the first one over this one , but I thought this was the most funny one of the series . To me , this time both Dr . Evil and Austin are equally funny , unlike part one where Dr . Evil to me was clearly the more funny . The jokes run the gambit from clever to just disgusting bathroom humor . . . but for the most part they are hits . In this installment Austin is on his honeymoon and his new wife is explained away in rather humorous fashion , though that is a bit of a shame seeing how Elizabeth Hurley was the best Austin girl in the series . Well Austin does a dance number and then during a trist with a Russian spy loses his mojo . Well actually it is stolen by a minion of Dr . Evil named fat bastard . Well you know the drill , Dr . Evil along with his army of villains including the new mini me are going to hold the world ransom for a very high price . Well , Austin is off with a new female agent a very attractive , but not as good actress Heather Graham . Well you have more elaborate death traps , a death ray to destroy the world , Austin battling the all powerful Mini me , and a part of the movie Independence Day . So prepare to laugh as you get to see various jokes on Bond too , the most prominent being the coming out of water scene from Dr . No .
Basically just a longer episode of Family Guy .	That , however , is not a bad thing . . . to many times in these situations the people who make the show may try to do something completely different and it really isn't as good as the show , but here it is . Though really , it is only three unaired episodes of the show with a movie premier scene to bookend them . The first two of these episodes are really funny , with the second stint being my favorite , I just about died at the spider man joke and the thundercats one . The third act is funny , but not quite up to the first two . The main point of the storyline is Stewie as the three episodes sort of have the same theme to them and it looks like it was sort of a three parter with two and three being more of the loop than the first one . Stewie has a near death experience , not only that he has seen a man that looks just like him on the television and he is convinced that it is his real father rather than Peter and this sends him and Brian on a trip to San Francisco . Once there a startling ( well not startling by this show's standards ) is made . Very funny overall , if you like the show you should enjoy this . My main complaint is that it is supposedly uncensored . . . well if that is the case why is the curse words beeped out ?
This Punisher is brutal .	Yes , this movie unlike the previous two Punisher movies really is what the Punisher comic book character is like . It is also very poorly received by movie critics as they just were aghast of all the violence in the film , most of which involves the Punisher doing away with criminals in rather satisfying fashion . I really enjoyed this incarnation of the Punisher myself , as like I said it portrays the Punisher as he is portrayed in the comics more than any other film . Granted I enjoyed the one with Thomas Jane quite a lot as well . As for the story , once again it is not a sequel so knowing either of the other two movies is not necessary to enjoy this film . Liking bad guys getting killed in very gruesome ways and not minding lots of blood are rather necessary for liking this film . The film does not show how the Punisher came to be except in brief flashback scenes , however , the flashbacks are more in line with how it happened in the comics . Right of the bat , the Punisher goes in and kills a lot of mob types in a rather grisly and gruesome shoot em up . Very nice start , as there was more gun play in this opening sequence than in the entire Max Payne movie released this same year . After taking care of a mansion full of these guys he heads to the docks where he accidentally shoots an insider from the FBI and really does a number on one particular mob guy who really liked his own looks . What happens next is an FBI agent now wants to really bring in the Punisher for the death of the inside guy , Frank ( Punisher ) is thinking of not being the Punisher because of this death , and the mobster becomes the crime boss Jigsaw and breaks his crazy brother out of jail to try and get revenge on the Punisher . So you get lots of kills to follow in a very wild ride . Lots of bullets expended as well , and a rather satisfying conclusion as the Punisher really takes care of business and pounds the bad guys .
The second flick in this series a gory good time .	I did not remember this movie being as funny the first time I saw it , but then I was just a kid . Now years later with my sense of humor effectively warped I had quite a few chuckles . This is of course a sequel to " The Evil Dead " , but then it is not quite a direct sequel . The first part of the film sort of recaps the first , but then it doesn't . You will notice only Ash and his girlfriend are shown at the cabin . The cabin is significantly better looking on the inside and there are various other differences as well . Still , this does not detract from this film as I like this one better than the first . Campbell as Ash is great , the first part of the film is like a one man show of someone doing a self torture stand-up . You get to watch a man have his hand possessed and proceed to beat the crap out of himself . And the scenes of Ash laughing along with the rest of the cabin is like a demented episode of Pee-Wee's playhouse . Soon though others arrive , of course they are just fodder for the evil dead to possess and kill . The effects are good for the most part , and where they are not so good it is usually done in humorous manner . The chainsaw arm is cool , and it is a nice ending as well considering the third part . I kind of wish Sam Rami and Bruce would make more horror movies as they are very good at it .
Good movie . . . but if it is the " Last Stand " it should have been more .	I enjoyed this movie better than the first one , but it lacked what the second movie had . Still many good things were to be found in this movie as I really enjoyed the fact Magneto really showed how powerful he was with some really jaw dropping deeds in magnetism . Beast was finally a main player and played really well by Kelsey Grammar . Great ending fight scene between our hero's and Magneto's virtual army and the Juggarnaut was just great . Still it had some flaws too , if this is supposed to be the final movie I didn't care for the fate of one of my favorite X-men from the comics ( though admittedly not everyone else's favorite ) though reading through some blogs I understand why now ( I think I would rather have him recast instead ) . The plot needed more development as the Dark Phoenix plot mixed with the cure plot needed more than just an hour and forty five minutes coverage . They could have easily added at least thirty to forty minutes of movie . Then there are the characters that were not very distinct . . . other than Pyro and Juggernaut I didn't really recognize anyone in Magneto's army and I hear Pyslocke was one of em . And why oh why didn't two of the characters that you would expect to trade punches never did ( you know who I am talking about ) . All in all it was a great thrill ride with wonderful special effects . Ian and Patrick Stewart once again steal their scenes , but nearly everyone did a good job . If this was the last one ( and I hope it isn't ) it was a rather nice end , however , if they choose to make more I will be on board and quite frankly the way the left it they need more .
Room 1408 , holds you in never letting go .	This movie had me hooked rather quickly as the John Cusak character's job of writing about haunted places was very interesting . He goes into an old bed and breakfast place and does what he normally does and goes about his business . One day though he receives a post card that simply states a hotel's name and a warning , don't go into room 1408 . Of course , being a writer of haunted places he is now compelled to go into this one . Once he arrives he is greeted by the hotel manager played very well by Samuel Jackson . They have a great conversation where Jackson's character tries everything to get our curious writer to reconsider staying in the room , a room where there are many deaths as no one has ever apparently survived an hour . Well the writer goes and at the start there is nothing really all that out of the ordinary . However , little things start to happen and before you know it spooks and such begin to appear , the room seems to be holding the writer prisoner and you begin to question what is real , or what is happening and if the writer has any chance of escaping . I was kind of relieved when he was ready to leave after the one incident , as I would have found it hard to believe anyone would not be spooked after the window and hand thing . The movie goes at a good pace and keeps you guessing , I was happy about the ending too , as I thought the sort of predictable scene that looked like the ending was going to be it . This room will take a hold of you , hopefully you can escape its grasp .
Suprising	I didn't think this movie would be any good , but I was rather suprised to see how well they followed the cartoon unlike other adaptations of cartoons . Of course it is mainly for kids , but there are a number of jokes for adults as well . The cast did great , and I loved the villian . All an all a pretty solid movie .
A role perfect for Arnold .	This like the terminator is a role that is just right for Arnold to play . Here he plays a warrior slave who as a child witnessed his mother killed at the hands of James Earl Jones who is a great bad guy here . He is raised as a slave and he becomes a fighter slave . He is one of the best until one day his master frees him . Once freed he meets allies and enemies alike as a king finally catches him after stealing stuff from this tower that worships snakes . The king requests Conan and his two friends to go find his daughter being held by James Earl Jones . At one point Conan is captured and left for dead before they infiltrate the base . Then near the end of the movie there is one heck of a battle between Jone's men and Conan that is really the highlight of the movie . One gripe though is that through the whole movie you expect Jone's character and Conan to have an epic battle . . . the ending is still satisfying even though that doesn't really come about .
Arnold's best role .	I like all the Terminator movies about the same ; they all have their strengths and weaknesses so I rank them all a nine . This one looks very dated now and some of the special effects just don't look so hot , but it still is a fun movie to watch as Arnold plays the killing machine very well . His prey , Sarah Connor played very well by Linda Hamilton . The story is good and there is lots of action and excitement . This one goes pretty quick too , unlike the second one which has places in it that drags a bit . Of course it makes up for the slow parts by having better effects than this one . This one has many memorable scenes , the most memorable being the Terminator's attack on the police station . There are a couple of Cameron staples here as Michael Biehan and Lance Henrikson are in it . They appear in other Cameron movies as well . Bill Paxton even has a small role in this one . All in all a very good sci-fi action movie that is entertaining and exciting even though it is a bit dated now .
Great Sci-Fi action movie , better than I expected .	I thought this one would be pretty good , but the previews did not really convey how good it turned out to be . I also thought it would be that good thanks to its relatively short running time . It turns out this helps the movie flow really fast and you never find yourself wondering how much time is left . At least it didn't for me . This one has Arnold as the Terminator once again being sent back in time to save Conner from an evil Terminator . Well I guess it isn't evil as it is a machine . Well anyway this time the Terminator doesn't have to long to protect John as the war to end the world , as we know it is really close . This one is just a great action movie , probably the best one I have seen this entire summer of 2003 . There is a great car chase , one that is even better than the Matrix Reloaded , mainly cause it looks more real , like it is actually happening in a city rather than a road Hollywood built ( don't get me wrong though , that one was cool too ) and there are other numerous scenes in this one that just keep your attention to the screen . The T-X is rather cool , but I just don't see her being superior to the T-1000 , as it seemed a lot harder to destroy . Though I thought Kristen did a rather good job similar to Robert Patrick ( I think that was his name ) . The movie explains some of the plot points I was wondering about too , all in all this movie was very enjoyable and had quite a few humorous moments as well .
I liked it as much as the original .	I did like this movie as much as the original , though for different reasons . This one starts out showing you the outbreak as it first happens and I thought that was very nicely done . Sure " Night of the Living Dead " sort of showed us the initial outbreak , but this one does it in such a fast and furious way . This movie has a few similarities with the original , though not many . Mainly the name and the fact the survivors find refuge in a mall are the main similarities . This is fine by me because I do not want to watch the same movie again . The zombies here are fast , sort of like the zombies in " Return of the Living Dead " or " Nightmare City " , but they are still stupid and can be killed with a bullet to the brain . They are also a lot better than the ones in " 28 Days Later " though they were not really zombies . They were just people infected with a disease that turned violent and puked blood , while the zombies here do what zombies normally do . . . eat people . Some humorous moments are scattered throughout , as are a few cameos . . . Tom Savini and Ken Foree are the two I noticed . Good action and lots of zombies to be seen here . This movie does one of the better jobs of making you believe the zombies are everywhere and the zombies are numerous . All in all good zombie action fun to be had .
Dang this one is gory .	Everyone told me this one was extremely gory and they were right . In fact I tend to agree with what the box says saying it is the goriest film of all time . Scary no , gory YES ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! In fact , it is a comedy . . . kind of a Monty Python episode that is really pushing the limits . It is about this guy who is in love with a girl , but his possesive mother tries to get in the way . She follows them to the zoo , gets bit buy a rat-monkey , dies , comes back as a zombie , and infects others . . . you know same ol ' same ol ' . The sad part is that as gory as it was I couldn't help myself from laughing . I just have to see Peter Jackson's Bad Taste as well . . . One thing about this movie though I just can't figure out why the hero of the story takes that baby to the park ( for those who have seen it you know , and for those who haven't I won't spoil it ) .
Christian Bale is Batman .	To my surprise I have to say this is now my favorite Batman movie yet . Why ? Simply put , they finally have cast the right guy to be Batman , a Batman that can stand tall and carry the movie without the help of overly flashy villains who simply say one liners and have stupid plans that really go nowhere . Bale is great as the caped crusader as he actually looks the part both in face and in stature . It also helps that he has the voice for it as he doesn't have to whisper to sound tough . Sure Keaton has his backers , but he gets to many points simply because he was the first ( though he was better than Kilmer and Clooney ) . We have an interesting plot here about how the Batman came into being and believe me he is first and foremost in this flick . The villains are good , perfect casting for the Scarecrow and he is like the comic book , but never does he overact and try to steal the show he is just an element of the plot . All the actors here were good , the story was good , simply put this was Batman as the Dark Knight , and yes this movie was dark . In fact , a bit more darker and an R rating might have been more appropriate . The action is great as no longer does it rely mainly on computer generated graphics , but more on stunts . The city of Gotham also looked great as it looked like a real city rather than a caricature of one with all the action taking place on one obvious set or another ( ala the last two Batman movies ) . A nice twist was thrown in here and there as well , though I thought it was headed in the direction it went . The Batmobile looked rather cool too , it matched the one of the first and second movie in that it looked like a real vehicle rather than just a big toy . So if you go see this Batman , don't look for a goofy embarrassing comedy , but rather a sleek , dark movie more reminiscent of the Batman in the comic books .
How you make a spoof .	This is one of the best spoof movies ever made . Why ? Because it has its own plot for the most part and just doesn't fill the movie up with scenes from other movies . . . though it does have a couple of scenes like that . Most of the best spoofs made are like this , making more fun of a genre than just one movie . Top Secret and The Naked Gun are two others that do this quite well . This one of course is making fun for the most part , airplane disaster movies . It does it quite well as it is one joke after another . You have to play close attention to see some of the jokes in the background , others you have to listen for or realize what is wrong with what they are saying . The cast is great , as Peter Graves plays the pilot of the plane , Robert Hayes as a veteran pilot , and even Karim-Abdul Jabber as the co-pilot . Leslie Nielson of Naked Gun fame is in it as well , playing the role with dead seriousness , which makes his character all the more funny . That is one of the problems with most of his later roles is that he is trying to be goofy and he is at his best when he is serious . All in all this one is a laugh riot and well worth checking out .
Quite frankly Spider-man , your amazing .	This so far has been the best movie I have seen all year . . . it was all I expected and more . Better than the 2002 hit , this Spider-Man is well worth seeing . A plot I was not expecting when I saw the previews helped too , as it continually surprised me with where it went and where it was going . The special effects are top notch , as was the acting , and generally everything about the movie was just great . Not the typical summer action movie , this movie had heart and just has to be one of the best comic book movies made if not the best . The story has Peter Parker / Spider-man really having a tough go of it as of late . He is late for classes ; he cannot hold on to a job , he is neglecting his friends all while trying to lead a double life . Meanwhile , a brilliant scientist is developing a process to make energy . Of course , this is Doctor Otto Octavious . During the two hours you are in for a ride both action wise and emotional . Spidey loses his powers because of all the problems he is having in his life personally and the good Doctor has an accident that causes him to fuse with metal arms he created to handle the unsafe fusion process . The highlights of this one include a very good bank heist by Doc Ock ( dubbed that by JJ Jameson ) and the best action sequence in any comic book adaptation a fight that starts on a clock tower and ends on a speeding train . Doctor Octopus is a definite improvement over the Green Goblin as he has much cooler fights with Spidey , plus he looks and fights more like the villain in the comic than the Goblin did . The focus in this one , however , is mostly on Peter Parker / Spider-Man as he tries to deal with the enormous powers he is given and trying to find a way to deal with his love for Mary Jane Watson a girl he seemingly can not have . That is what also made this movie work for me . . . I just can totally relate to his situation . Not that I have super powers , but any woman I fall for I never act upon because I think they will be better off not knowing me . I also have the bad luck and I am a bit of a klutz . Heck , if I did have powers I would have abandoned this life long ago . All in all a great movie that I look forward to buying on DVD . The best superhero ever . . . go get em ' Spidey .
Final Fantasy's first ps2 game a winner in nearly every regard .	What to say about Square's first of four ff's for the PS2 . . . well for one it is easily the best out of the one's I have played . Never played the online one , I thought 10-2 was really good too , but not quite up to this one and part twelve seemed a step backward in terms of story and character graphics . This is the first ff to feature voice dialog and it works rather well considering it is the first time it has been used in a ff . The characters are all good from Tidus , to Wakka , Yuna , the cute Rikku , the rather hot goth Lulu , the beastly Kimariah , to one of the most cool characters ever in a Final Fantasy Auron . The story is top notch a young man transported to a world where there is a beast named Sin terrorizing the world and a young woman must make a pilgrimage to the city the young man may have come from to find the means to defeat the monster for another ten years of peace . The fighting is turn based and another first as you have the ability to switch in and out characters in the middle of battle , thus allowing you to level everyone up during every battle . . . also everyone gets to contribute to the victory . You level via a grid based system that is easy to pick up too . The game is rather linear in nature as you pretty much stay on course and you can't really do any of the extra stuff until you get the airship at near the end of the game . Which this does not bother me as I prefer this to the more open ended role playing games . You can though play a game called blitz ball for a little extra fun . . . I am rather good at this game and it is a really fun mini game . So for a well rounded Final Fantasy with good graphics good story and very few weaknesses try X .
As good as the first .	This movie was as thouroughly enjoyable as the first chapter in the story . The acting was great , the special effects were great , and the story was great . It is shaping up to be my favorite trilogy of all time . This one follows three stories one of Frodo and Sam on their way to Mordor , one of the two hobbits kidnapped in the first one , and the other of Aragon , Gimley , and Legolos and their encounters . The one that is the main focus to me was the Aragon tale and it was by far the best . The other two were good as well , but most of the battles happened in the Aragon parts of the story . I also really enjoyed the expanded roles of Gimley the Drawf and Legolos the elf . Great effects also abound in this one as the creature Gollum looks a lot better than I thought it would . Just a great movie , I can't believe there are people that gave this movie a 1 . I mean even if you hated some part of it the scenery alone makes the at least a 3 . I am thinking these people were dragged to the movie kicking and screaming which is why you should never take someone to a movie they don't want to see cause then they give it a 1 out of spite . It is either that or they are star wars fans who can't stand that there movies don't get the great reviews anymore .
Very good end to a very good set of movies .	This was probably my favorite trilogy of all time , as throughout movie history there have not been all that many good fantasy movies that have been released so these films fill that void for me . This last chapter wraps up the story nicely as Frodo and Sam are very close to where they need to be and the army of Sauron are trying to finish off man once and for all . This movie is a bit different than the last one in the fact that the Hobbits Frodo and Sam and Gandolf the wizard are more of the focus of this one rather than Aragon , Gimli , and Legolos who were more the focus of the last one . This one has epic battles and great visuals as well . It is also very well acted . Sean Astin does a particularly good job as Sam in this one as his character has a lot more impact in this one . All in all a very good movie that wrapped up a very good trilogy that was one of the few that did not have a weak movie in the bunch . I would write more , but I am sure there are plenty of reviews that do the movie more justice than I can .
The coolest Bronson Bond yet .	This so far is by far my favorite Bond with Bronson . It was very entertaining and exciting . The cast did a great job especially Bronson and Berry ( who is one of the best Bond girls in years ) . The bad guys were good , Stephens did a wonderful job . And the stunts and action will blow you away . . . I especially liked the car chase over the ice when Bond finally uses all the gadjets in his car for a change . The plot involves stuff I won't mention because I don't want to spoil the plot for anyone , but I thought it was good . There are also a lot of tributes in this one to Bond movies of the past in this one . Highly reccomended .
Never read the book , but loved the movie !	I didn't know quite what to expect when I went into the theater , all I knew is that I wanted to see a fantasy film with sword fights , magic and monsters . I was not disappointed . It exceeded my expectations because it had all the stuff I mentioned and great acting , and good character development as well . I was enjoying the movie so much that I was very disappointed when it ended . I would have gladly stayed another six hours if the showed the next two installments of this flick . That was the only bad part of the film is the abrupt ending , but I still give this movie a 10 , because it is a trilogy and I was expecting it . If you want to see a great movie , one that delivers where so many have promised , but failed to deliever then this is the film to see . . . even if you didn't read the book . And for anyone who has read the book I would love to hear your take on the movie , just don't give anything away about the next two parts .
A movie with good action , comedy and heart .	When I bought this movie , I was expecting a chuckle or two and to see some pretty good fight scenes . This movie went beyond my expectations and has to be one of the best movies I have seen all year . The comedy had me laughing out loud , the fight scenes were jaw dropping and to top it all off it even had some touching emotional scenes as well . This movie has it all and it comes not from the United States , but rather the far east where they seem to keep making movies that I thoroughly enjoy . This movie has a gang known as the Axe gang terrorizing nearly every corner of the city save for the areas that are poor . That is until an aspiring man who wishes to join the gang literally brings the gang violence to this peaceful little slum town with its many colorful characters , which a few of the residents are kind of well versed in kung fu . We get to see this young man make several stupid mistakes and he seems sort of a klutz , but there also seems to be a hint of greater things . Assassines are sent to deal with those who fought the Axe gang and we get a very strange musical combo and a man who is so well versed in martial arts he is known as the " Beast " . Great fights ensue , but as for the comedy the best part has to be Sing's ( the man who wants to join the Axe gang ) assassination attempt of the landlady of the poor town . So if you like Asian cinema and are in the mood for a movie that basically has a lot of laughs and action then this is definitely the one to check out .
The game that changed role playing games forever .	Final Fantasy IV got me hooked on rpgs , this game made me buy the first playstation as just the commercials on television were awe inspiring for the time . What set this one apart from others , simply the cinematic movies that were a super upgrade of the little skits played out in previous Final Fantasy games . The look of this movies was just incredible for the time and something that could not have been done nearly as well on the still cartridge Nintendo 64 that I mistakenly bought and have virtually never played . The story is also one of the best and still is as it has the best villain ever to be featured in a Final Fantasy Seiphoroth . You begin as a mercenary for hire , Cloud , helping an old childhood friend and her group trying to stop a corporation from taking all the mako out of the world ( the life blood of the planet ) . Along the way you meet a young lady who is something called an ancient , and all sorts of other nifty characters like a materia hording ninja , a mysterious man sleeping in a coffin , and a big old plush toy . The combat is an upgrade as well as this time it is definitely more than just a picture flashing , the enemies in this one attack and you see the attack . There are also various mini games as well as an arcade of fun . Lots of extra bosses and things to do and a very surprising and heartbreaking moment to be had . All in all a great game that holds up to this day even though the characters at times appear to have no mouths .
A very stylish movie .	This is one of those movies that I can watch again and again and not get tired of it . It is by far one of the best comic book adaptations ever . I liked this one even more than X-men . In fact , this movie is sort of a cross between X-men and the matrix and it came out before either . Wesley Snipes does a great job with the character of Blade . He is just not an emotionless super hero . Also , this movie isn't sugercoated to get a pg-13 rating . Sure comic books are for kids mainly , but I like a little more in my movies . Let's face it , if we were in these situations we would cuss up a storm to so it is more realistic . This comic book adaptation also has something that many don't . A good fight in the end between the bad guy and good guy . Let's face it , none of the Batman movies had a very good ending fight .
The Dark Knight excels at protecting Gotham while the Joker is wild !	Yes , this movie is as advertised . . . one of those big time movies that actually lives up to the hype . Once again , like in Batman Begins , the story is not the typical comic book movie formula that was ironicallysort of started by the Batman movie in 1989 . You do not see the typical introductions or a sort of cartoony type world . This movie takes place in a city that looks real , the people living here look like everyday people . Batman is still watching over the city as best he can , crime is still a part of Gotham , however , the criminals are now looking behind their backs out of fear of the Batman . Meanwhile , a deranged gentleman known as the Joker is robbing the biggest mob bosses of their money and doing other things seemingly without purpose yet at the same time coldly calculating . A district attorney named Harvey Dent is doing his part to clean up Gotham and Batman sees in him a new hope for the city of Gotham . Someone who the citizens can stand behind and help rid the city of the unwanted criminal element , a " white knight " if you would . Unfortunately , for Batman , Harvey and Lt . Gordan the Joker suddenly takes an interest in Batman and begins a sick game for seemingly no other purpose than for kicks . Great action and story twists ensue as this was a very wild ride and a great summer movie . The acting is great as Bale once again makes the best Batman , Gary Oldman a very likable Gordan and Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine are both back and great too . Heck , even Murphy is back as the Scarecrow and while not in it long makes a nice little appearance . Heath Ledger though steals the show as the absolutely insane clown prince of crime The Joker . Jack Nicholson was good , Ledger is even better as his Joker is even darker . A strange person who seemingly has no past whose origins are a bit of a mystery and who has a very sinister first appearance . Though even more memorable is his next appearance at a mob meeting where he does the most amazing magic trick . A surprise to me was also Harvey Dent's role in the film as I wasn't expecting it to unfold as it did and once again it was perfectly cast . The only complaint I have is a minor one and that is the absence of Katie Holmes as Rachel . She has been replaced and I do not really care for the person she was replaced with as Katie was prettier and more lively and the new lady just seems to be a plug in . Still , it did not detract from the picture all that much as this movie is about Batman facing his greatest nemesis The Joker and you get that in spades . You also get more Batman than in other Batman movies and loads of action . You also get a refreshingly darker tone that suits this version of the Joker very well .
excellent flick . . . better than I thought it would be .	I was expecting a good movie , but I didn't know I would enjoy it as much as I did . I am an avid Spider-man fan , and only have seen Daredevil when he makes an apperance in Spider-man , but I have to say even though I am a Spidey fan I didn't like Spider-man much more than Daredevil . A little , but not by much . The movie is fast paced and extremely cool . One person wrote they didn't like the soundtrack , but I loved it . . . I prefer some rock and alternative music cut in with the action rather than hearing the bland scores that accompany most big time movies these days . All the actors I thought were good too . Ben Affleck was great as Daredevil , Jennifer Garner was good as Electra and Michael Clark Duncan made a good Kingpin as well . Even though Kingpin in the comics is white I think Duncan is one of the few actors that has the size to play the part . Though the one that stole the show was Colin Ferrel as the assassin Bullseye . . . he brought great energy to his role . Jon Favreau plays Daredevil's law partner and he is good as well . This comic adaptation also seems to be darker and more geared to adults than other comic book movies as there are a couple of rather graphic death scenes . All in all this one was great .
My favorite movie of all time !	There are few movies I can watch over and over again , but this is one of them . This movie has it all : action , romance , comedy , and suspense . Harrison Ford is at his best as Dr . Jones , one of the most exciting archeologist ever . From the start to the end you are hooked to this movie . I love the opening when he as to dodge traps as he tries to get this treasure , I love it when he is running through the streets trying to save the girl , I just love every bit of it . Spielburg said he wanted a b-type movie like he remembered from his youth , but this far surpasses any b movie and any a movie as far as I am concerned .
Still the most visually stunning entry in the Star Wars series .	This for me is the best Star Wars movie . . . I even like it more than the first one . Even today I find it visually stunning and it looks a lot better than anything in the most recent two Star Wars films . The plot is a bit darker as this film in the series seemed to be more aimed at adults , but kids could enjoy it too . It is a shame that the one scene in this film that is the most memorable will be kind of wiped out thanks to the new trilogy . You know the one with Luke facing Vader and Vader makes the startling revelation . Anyone who watches these movies in the so-called correct order is not going to be very surprised . Though if they do watch it in order they may never get to this classic cause they will probably stop after the Clone Wars cause lets face it the new triology just isn't very good . Watch the original trilogy and forget the new . . . I just wish these were availble on dvd .
Excellent show , my favorite .	Not that I have many shows I even like , as it stands other than stuff on adult swim the only shows I watch a lot of are this one , Wings and Fraiser and I think they are all made basically by the same people . I don't know the humor in these shows just work for me . This one is about a bar and its owner and his regular customers . The first few years focused more on the relationship of Sam ( the owner ) and his love / hate relationship with Diane . The last years was more on just about everyone in the bar , Sam still standing tall among them . The humor is great , very few downer episodes to be found . As for characters I love em all , Sam the womanizing bartender , Norm and Cliff two regular buddies , Fraiser the guy who completely stands out like a sore thumb . All of them are great . It is hard though to say who I like more as far as replacements , I liked Diane and Rebecca , I do tend to lean a bit more to Rebecca cause there is something about the way everything would always go wrong with her life , Coach and Woody are probably tied . . . I can't really say who I prefer out of both of them . So for a good time in a nice little bar , try Cheers .
One of the best comedies ever .	I love this movie , because no matter how many times I see it , it is still funny . One of the many reasons it works is the low budget and the fact that they don't try to hide the fact it is low budget . Also , the very serious music this movie has makes it funny because they are acting like it is a serious movie and then again they are not . Plot summary is simple . King Arthur must find and retrieve the holy grail and while doing so runs into one hilarious encounter after another . The members of Monty Python did a wonderful job on this movie and they play multiple parts in it . I don't want to give anything away so just trust me and watch this film , and I bet you will be laughing !
Before the movie XXX , there was the agent XXX .	This is one of Roger Moore's best turns as James Bond . It has one of the best plots , the best villians , and one of the best Bond girls . . . Barbara Bach as agent XXX . Submarines are being somehow hijacked and it is up to Bond to find out by whom . Meanwhile , Agent XXX must find out who stole a Russian sub . They start out working against each other , but after awhile they pull their resources and work together . This Bond flick features a great ski chase , a battle on a train , car chase and good finale . Also , Richard Kiel , plays the henchman Jaws and does a pretty good job considering he has no lines .
My favorite of the Pink Panther movies .	Ironically , it is the only Pink Panther movie not to have the name Pink Panther in the title , but I still find it very funny . Sure the jokes are corny and have been used before , but that does not stop me from laughing . Though I do believe this movie was supposed to be something else entirely , but it wasn't working so they added Peter Sellers ' Inspector and it made the movie work . This one has the inspector ( I am not even going to attempt to spell his name ) investigating a murder case that seems pretty cut and dry , except for the fact Sellers ' character falls for the main suspect so he is convinced she could not do such a thing . Laughs are aplenty as chief inspector Dryfeuss is introduced as well as Cato , two stables of the many future Pink Panther sequels . One of my favorite comedies of all time as Peter Sellers ' performance is very memorable .
This film is more than meets the eye , that is for sure .	This film was a real pleasure to behold . Seeing my beloved childhood toys and favorite cartoon explode on the big screen in a way I never imagined was just way to cool . I never thought they could make a live action Transformers that could look so realistic , but they proved me wrong . The story , well it is the Autobots versus the Decepticons of course . Granted there is more to it than that as they are trying to get to this mysterious artifact called the cube before the other group . We also have a young youth in search of his first car , lots of humor and a lot of action as well . The only complaints I have are minor as I would have liked to have seen some of the Decepticons a bit more , as Starscream and Megatron are confined to the end of the film . However , I got to see Optimus Prime a good bit so I will not complain to much about that . The action is great in this movie , as we start off with one rather impressive attack on a military base that really sets up the movie with a bang . We then have numerous other scenes of the Decepticons trying to search for the whereabouts of the cube and Megatron who has a connection with the boy searching for his first car . We have a great scene involving a Decepticon cop car and Bumble Bee ( one of the Autobots ) and at the end all the ends tie together in one fierce battle in the middle of a city . Great fight and an impressive conclusion to this movie . So be prepared to watch one of the more fun and action packed movies of the summer as the Autobots fight the evil forces of the Decepticons .
Beautiful movie . . . both visually and story wise .	I have to admit I was expecting a bit more action , however , I was not disappointed in the least watching this movie . This had to be one of the most gorgeous movies to look at I have seen . The use of colors and the locations were just great . As if that were not enough it had a very good and emotional story to go along with it . The first part of the movie contains the most action as there are some good fight scenes plus other visual action scenes . The arrow scene and the fight between the two women in the orchid are both very well done . Then the movie shifts in more of a story mode as things are revealed and sacrifices made . The movie unfolds from different perspectives as the one known only as Nameless tells his story to the emperor . The characters all have some rather cool names as well such as Flying Snow and Broken Sword . The movie is a bit of a sad one , but it works very well . I was also happy they kept it with subtitles rather than dubbing as dubbing can ruin a movie of this sort .
Just goes to show you , ya don't need 200 million to make a great epic movie . . .	This movie did not cost a lot to make compared to other epic movies , yet it deserves its place among them . A grand epic adventure with loads of fighting and lots of blood . Yes , this film truly delivered the goods . Shot using blue screens and the like almost all the backgrounds and scenery is computer generated , this however does not detract from the film , but instead gives it a surreal quality . This movie is about how 300 spartan warriors stood against the massive Persian army and held their own . The story goes by quickly as this one is nearly pure fighting . The scenes without fighting are good as well as is the whole story , told back to us in narrative form . I was surprised how quickly though the Spartans set out for their battle . The battle itself was of epic proportion as you got to learn the advantages of troop formation and fighting as one and as comrades is a much better way to go about things than just charging and fighting more out of fear for one's life . You also get to see some of the best spear and shield fighting ever in a movie . The battle scenes are more graphic than those in the Lord of the Rings trilogy and emotional too , cause I was pulling for the Spartans all the way . Just something about their conviction you had to admire . All this and it was done on a rather minuscule budget , you also have to admire the director and producer as well . Though I just knew that one guy would be trouble for the troops .
Fun first movie based on the cartoon series .	I really enjoyed this flick , however , I probably gave it a higher score than necessary mainly because unlike every Dragonball Z movie , this film actually has a rather good running time of more than an hour and a half . So it has a better developed story , good action scenes , and of course some good comedy as well . The story has our gang having to escort a bit of a spoiled actress to a realm known as the land of snow . However , as easy as this sounds it does not play out this way as a strong gang of ninjas attacks again and again . Seems our actress has a secret and it is up to Naruto and pals to defeat this ninja clad in special armor . The fights are great showcasing all the young ninjas special talents as well as their teacher and there are a couple of surprises along the way as well . The animation is to be expected just like the television show with a few nice visuals along the way . Though I may only be saying this because I love snow and living here in Alabama I haven't seen any first hand in ten years or so . The characters are their usual selves and you will probably find the actress annoying at first then feel for her then dislike her again . The bad guys are typical , nothing to special about them , in fact Gaara from the television show is more menacing and a way better bad guy than any displayed here . Still , I really enjoyed this movie and hope to see the other Naruto movies released soon .
Pretty Cool	This was one action-packed thrill ride . Though I would say I liked it about the same as the first one even though it had more action , the first one had a better plot . Though I understood everything and did not find any of the plot twists to confusing or anything like a lot of others complain about . The darker setting is very cool and the European setting makes this movie have a Gothic setting . It is a combination of the very old and new that gives this film great atmosphere . The plot is there is a new breed of vampire on the streets and normal vampires need Blade's help in disposing of them , but can he really trust them . I highly recommend this flick .
Pretty cool and fast paced .	Fast paced is the best way to describe this DBZ movie . Piccolo is apparently killed and Gohan gets kidnapped so Goku goes to the lair of Garlic jr an evil person with ambitions to rule the world , and who has already been granted immortality from the dragon . Battles ensue as Krillin joins the battle to help Goku rescue his son and the thought to be dead Piccolo also appears , but not to help , he just owes the henchmen a little pay back . All in all a pretty cool installment of DBZ .
The highlight of the Shadow Hearts games . . .	This game is a very good and fun follow-up to the Gothic , horror , science fiction game Shadow Hearts . Granted most of the horror is removed for this one and more humor added . And what is this ? Can it be ? A role playing game that is actually a direct sequel to the original rather than a completely different game and it isn't set in the distant future or past ? Yes , Yuri is back and he has problems . . . a mad priest or something has shoved a cursed object into his chest and he only has a limited time to try and find a cure . Once again the judgment wheel is here to add some excitement to the combat which there are a couple of new touches as well . He meets a lot of interesting characters too as they range from the mysterious beauty Karin , to an old puppeteer , and even a gay wrestling vampire . Yes , only in the world of Shadow Hearts . It does get a bit goofy at times , but at others it is extremely somber as Yuri must confront the guilt he feels for another he felt he let down in the past . The game uses cinematic movie scenes great , good villains and a few surprising twists as well make this a very great and complete role playing adventure that stretches from Europe to Japan during World War I .
An " Incredible " triumph in the genre of super hero movies .	I am not the biggest computer generated movie fan there is , but I have to hand it to Pixar , they made one of the best movies of 2004 with this hit " The Incredibles " . In fact , of all the movies I saw last year the only one I rank ahead of it is another super hero movie " Spider-man 2 " . Of course , I enjoy super hero flicks so they had that going for them . This movie centers around a super hero forced to live an ordinary life after certain problems arise during a rescue of a person falling from a building and a train accident . The super hero ( Mr . Incredible ) isn't adjusting to life as an ordinary guy to well . He keeps helping those in need even at the risk of losing money for his company . I found this trait most endearing , because it showed he was not in the biz merely for the glory , but that he truly wants to help people . So much so that he goes out one night a week with his old super hero buddy " Frozone " and they stop some crimes . However , when Mr . Incredible gets an invitation to go to an island and do his super hero thing he leaps at the opportunity . Eventually , this leads to his capture and the rest of the family must come to the rescue . Every aspect of this film was great , I loved that this film was actually rather long as it is one of the rare animated movies that really has a chance to develop a good story . You aren't going to be to surprised by many things , but here you just do not need to be surprised . The voices are all great headlined terrifically by Craig T Nelson and Holly Hunter . Good laughs , good action , and an all around good movie are awaiting you in this little treasure . I especially liked Dash's sprint through the forest . If I had any complaints it might be that I wish Samuel L Jackson's character Frozone was in it a bit more .
One of the most unique and engaging role playing games of all time ! ! !	This game took me 97 hours and 43 minutes to win on my first play through . Normally , I would not ever want to touch the game again seeing as how it lasted that long , but I can see myself playing this one again . The story , is very intriguing . A boy goes to a new town to start at a new school . He becomes involved with an organization that is involved in the elimination of a creature known as shadows . These creatures only appear during the dark hour . What is this you ask ? A forgotten time that occurs during twelve o'clock and is unknown to most . The exceptions , poor souls who are unlucky enough to be prey for the shadows and our heroes who have the ability to wield an ability known as persona's . Yes , sounds complicated , and it is . Your school also transforms during this time and is called the tarturas and this is where you do the majority of the fighting at . The fighting is turned based with a twist , you really only control the main character and this will make some fights more difficult than necessary . However , I won the game with the battle level at normal rather than easy and while there was some tough spots I got through most of the game rather smoothly . During the day you proceed with normal school activities and this is important as the more friends and stuff you have the more powerful persona's you can make through fusing . Yes , it is somewhat complicated to explain . You will notice that the main character's persona looks like the many enemies and such that you have encountered in other games made by this company like Digital Devil Saga and the very hard to find Nocturne . This one though is my favorite of the bunch though they are all rather good . . . though I am not crazy about Devil Summoner . So when you play this game be prepared for it to take a while , as the last boss fight alone took me over an hour to beat . However , be prepared for a lot of fun too .
My favorite of the Legend of Zelda series .	Granted I have not played Windwaker or the two Nintendo 64 games , but of the ones I have played this one is my personal favorite . The story is a bit different this time , though one thing remains the same , Zelda must be saved . She is , however , not really all that important to the quest this time around as she has sister's that also need saving . Link's uncle heads off to the castle because he senses trouble , Link follows and soon takes up the quest on behalf of his uncle . Hyrule is a very lush and vibrant place now , there are towns to explore and other places off the beaten path . There is also an other world where an old evil has resurfaced and claimed as his own . This world was once called the Golden World , now this fiendish evil has twisted it to the dark realm . A realm that for some reason at first transforms Link into a bunny person that can not fight . This game combines the best elements of the first two Zeldas and adds the more powerful super Nintendo graphics to make a very memorable and fun Zelda game . The secrets like those found in the first Zelda are present , the towns from the second are incorporated here . This one also adds its own twists such as duel worlds and the addition of a very well done story . Much better than the rather simple first game and the strangely absent story in part two . This game also has a very nice ending as it has really nice music during the credits . This game also has special meaning to me as I won it during a blizzard , we were snowed in without cable , but we had power so I was able to win this gem then .
I thoroughly enjoyed this entry into the final fantasy series .	I seem to be in the minority of a lot of people out there as this entry to the final fantasy series is one of my favorites . Something about this game was very addicting and very entertaining . The story is an improvement over eight as are the characters who come from a wide range of classes and are probably the most unique to each other since those in Final Fantasy IV . Let's face it they just about all do differing things compared to our heroes in eight . We have a knight , a thief , two summoners with different summons and abilities , a black mage , a eating machine , a rat knight with dragoon like jumping abilities , and an assassin . . . with these there are a couple of guests that enter your party from time to time as well . The story has a band of thieves posing as a band of performers kidnapping a very willing to be kidnapped princess at the start of the game where we are introduced to a few of our unique characters . During your travels you must battle a corrupt queen and a very mysterious weapons dealer . There are many references to other ff games and even an old nemesis is reborn . The combat is turn based and this time you can have four people in your party rather than the three from the previous two games . This makes combat rather easy , also there is no trick to leveling up as it is pretty basic stuff here although by equipping certain items this time around you can learn an array of skills and attacks that is very useful during your travels . So for a very well rounded more of a throwback to earlier ff games this is one of the best .
My favorite Farrelly brother comedy .	Yes , I like this one a lot more than Something About Mary , which was pretty good , but this one was so much more funny to me . Mary had great moments , but there were also quite a few slow stretches . . . these are , however , common in all the Farrelly brother movies . Not this one though . This is there only comedy where there virtually are no slow stretches . . . it is one gag after another , never slowing up for a moment at all . Carrey and Daniels are great with each other , they have good chemistry . . . it is to bad the sequel will feature neither of them , which means the sequel will probably suck . The movie is simple enough to follow , as two men of lower intelligence embark on a quest to return a briefcase to a woman . This woman , though , left the briefcase on purpose as it contained a ransom . So the two dummies now have killers on their trail and run into a lot of other misadventures on their quest to return the case . All in all , a very funny flick that is funny all the way through .
Spidey still amazing . . . albeit a bit somber this go around .	I really enjoyed this movie a lot and rank it right there with part two in how much I enjoyed this movie . Granted , a lot of people do not share this opinion , but then we all have differing tastes do we not . For me I was extremely surprised at how well the movie was made and how the story progressed . . . from all the reviews I was expecting a bit of a jumbled mess instead of a story that may had a lot of plot points , but for me they all came together quite nicely in the end . There is quite a lot of drama in this one , I will not deny that either as this was the complaint of a couple of people I know . I say a movie needs heart to keep your emotions going , and it was not like there was no action in this one , this one had more action than the previous two installments . When I read about this movie from critics and such I was not expecting what I got , I had a rather negative review ready to go on how this movie should have only been the black suit without Venom and how he should be introduced in the next movie , in the end Venom was not quite in the movie as much as I would have liked , but I still enjoyed the scenes he was in as Topher Grace was surprisingly effective as the character . And speaking of effective Thomas Haden Church was also excellent as the hulking yet sad Sandman . The plot , everything is going alright with Spidey at the beginning , the city of New York has embraced Peter Parker's alter ego , this however kind of blinds Peter from the fact MJ's career is not going quite so good and he does a few things that he should not . If this were not enough Harry attacks him as the New Goblin and another super villain appears as the Sandman , a powerful foe seemingly unstoppable . Add to this the fact that Flint Marko , aka the Sandman , may have actually been the one to kill his uncle and the pressure is really on Parker as now the old stirrings of revenge have surfaced . Fortunately , thanks to an accident Harry seems to be his old self again , not so fortunate some sort of alien material has now attached itself to Spider man and now Spidey and Peter are exhibiting a darker edge . So that is how it plays out , throw in an annoying new photographer named Eddie Brock causing Peter and Spidey headaches and you have a wild ride as there are fights in the skies of New York , on the streets , in the subways , and finally the biggest fight in any of the Spidey movies at a building under construction , an all out battle with two villains and even two heroes . However , this movie will not be for everyone as there are stretches where the movie is really dramatic between the action scenes , and even though I loved it , it still left me depressed too . Still if it ends on this it will be okay , however I do believe there is an opening for a sequel and if there is one I do believe the focus will be on that one particular character that some complain was not in this one enough . Though one thing was kind of lame , was Peter walking through the streets doing his little shuffle , I do think they could have come up with a better way to portray his dark side than that as I would have at least included a scene of him in the black suit taking out some criminals with a bit more force than necessary .
This Bond movie is a royal flush .	I really enjoyed this film and it is the best movie I have seen this year as it is the only one I have given a ten too . Usually in a year there are at least two , and sometimes more , this year seemed destined to have none until I saw this movie . What can I say , I just had to have a little faith that 007 would save the day and movie year . Granted I enjoyed " Die Another Day " a lot too , it was all gadgets and special effects . . . this one I liked because of the simplicity of it all . The gadgets are all but gone , the action is more stunt work than special effects and this one really looks at the character of Bond like no other Bond film has because this is the beginning of his 00 career . Craig is really good as Bond as I would say he is rather close to the best Bond Sean Connery . Though I have enjoyed all the actors who have played that character so far . The action is great , but that is to be expected , the emotional twists in the story were not expected and were welcome by me , this movie shows us just what has made James Bond who he is . Judi Dench returns as M and is solid as usual , and she was rather funny in some of her scenes . The story has Bond tracking a man who is sort of a banker for terrorist . This man has a plan that Bond foils and costs him quite a lot of money , which this man hopes to win back in a game of Poker . So Bond gets in on the game and is joined by a lovely lady whom he apparently is falling for bad . This movie plays out very well and I look forward to seeing it again , as I also look forward to seeing Craig as James Bond again .
My favorite Connery Bond movie .	Out of Connery's Bond movies this one is my personal favorite . It has the best location , the best action , and the best women . Sure it also has lots of flaws , but I still really enjoy this one . SPECTRE has hijacked some nuclear weapons and is threatning to use them if they do not get what they want . So Bond has to find the missles and put a stop to SPECTRE's plans once again . Almost the entire movie takes place on a tropical island , much like Dr . No , but this one has a better plot and a great underwater fight scene at the end that make it a much better film than Dr . No . From beginning to end I find this one of the most enjoyable Bond flicks .
Simply the best	In fact it is no real contest . Before Tim Burton went for the totally dark look and Joel went for bright and goofy there is the original Batman . This one Burton did right . . . just enough gloom , comedy , and other factors to make is an enjoyable flick . It helps to have Nicholson play the Joker . He was by far the best villan in the series . Michael Keaton did a good job as well . It also helped that when Batman appeared it was something special . The museum scene where he came through the skylight still has not been duplicated sucessfully . It also focused on the villan more and Bruce Wayne instead of being just focused on Batman . The story was good as well . Like I said it is dark , but not to dark and it never got real goofy .
One of the best .	This and " The Spy Who Loved Me " are my favorite of Moore's Bond movies . This one has the more simpler plot with no one really trying to control the world . It is simply about Bond trying to get a coding device that has sunk in the ocean before the Russians can get to it . Along the way are great car chases , excellent underwater fights , a simple yet effective finale , and much more . The locations are great , the actors are great , this film simply put is great .
A very good continuation of Casino Royal .	Yes , this movie starts off with a very nice car chase scene and is a very action packed James Bond movie . After the nice chase scene to open up the movie you are aware that this movie is picking up where the last movie left off . A nice change of pace for a James Bond movie as this is the first time I know of that this was done so directly . Granted " From Russia With Love " sort of acknowledged the previous movie by mentioning the death of Dr . No and in " Diamonds are Forever " it had Bond going on a revenge kick . . . this one is the first I know that picks up more like a direct sequel with a continuation in plot . The plot has Bond trying to find out who was behind the set up of Vesper as it seems there is a mysterious organization behind it and they have a member who has a rather different plot that Bond must uncover . You never really get to find out what this organization is , however , I have my suspicions . I think it may be something out of some of the previous Bond movies . So you get lots of action as Bond must chase a guy across the rooftops , interrupt an opera , escape on a boat and plane and have a blazing conclusion in a virtual inferno . Daniel Craig is once again very good as is Judi Dench . It is nice they used characters from the previous movie and the Bond girls in this one are very attractive . However , this movie is somewhat dark as Bond is having trouble coping over the lose of the woman he loved . He tries desperately to make it seem he did not care , and that revenge is not the main driver behind his actions . However , this revenge does not blind him , but rather makes the path more clear to him as he is able to see who the villains are .
What I was hoping for and more .	Usually when there is a big summer movie I am looking forward to , I wait and wait and then the movie comes out and it is a big disappointment . I really looked forward to the American Godzilla movie and by golly it was a huge disappointment . Then I really looked forward to Star Wars episode 1 and although it was not the disappointment Godzilla was , it was still a disappointment . Spider-man however was everything I was hoping it to be . In fact , it has to be considered one of the best comic book adaptations ever . It actually took parts of the comic book and incorporated it into the movie . Unlike most comic book movies where the story doesn't come from any of the comic books . Sure there are some departures such as the organic web shooters , but this is acceptable seeing as how watching Peter Parker learning he has them makes for some humorous scenes . The entire cast did a great job capturing the characters they were playing and there are some great fights as well . This is also a departure from most comic book movies where there is really no good fight at all between the heroes and villains .
Even better than Shaun of the Dead , this movie delivers the laughs and surprisingly the action .	The best comedy I have seen this year or probably the last couple of years this movie had me laughing and cheering on our heroes . In this movie we have a super cop who has gotten numerous awards for his excellent service , top of his class , and smart too . Unfortunately , he is to good in that he makes the other officers in London look bad so he is promoted to Sergent in a very small and quaint little town . Once there he quickly makes his presence known and we get to see him adjust to his new life and even a new partner . Well not really a new partner as he is more of a guy who really looks up to the officer for all he has done . However , all is not as it seems in this nice little town as something sinister seems to be at play . This movie is just great . Funny , and it has loads of action and blood too . It is sort of nice to see a rated R action cop movie again . Throw in a plot that actually surprised me a bit and it a nice change of pace from the the computer terrorist plots so many movies are employing and you have one of the great films of the year . Simon Pegg and Nick Frost are great here as they were in Shaun of the Dead , they are also likable as it is like joining a couple of friends at a day on the job . Also in the cast is a former James Bond , Timothy Dalton so that was interesting as well . Still even with the cool action scenes what I was looking for here was laughs and I got plenty , from the opening scenes to the final ones the jokes flew fast and furious with a few sentimental touches as well , however , they added to the movie and worked quite nicely too . So for a super funny cop buddy flick this should be on your list of one of the best .
