If " No Moose Is a Good Moose " is a typical " Laurel and Hardy " cartoon episode , then I'm not sure I want to see any more	Just discovered this , the fifth episode of Hanna-Barbera's " Laurel and Hardy " s cartoon series , on the Saturday Morning Blog as linked from YouTube . Both comedians were dead by then so Hardy is voiced by Jim MacGeorge and Laurel is voiced by the owner of their likeness-Larry Harmon . In this one , they are hunting for a rabbit . Unfortunately for them , they keep running into a moose . That's all I'll say for the plot line of this four-minute short and just say how lame the whole thing was for me . This was a typical ' 60s low-budget television enterprise that was produced to capitalize on the revival these , and other classic film comedians , were experiencing during this decade when TV made many of them popular all over again . As such , you'd wish some quality time was spent on making these cartoons reasonably entertaining but no , with the lack of money and preparation all you get here is some repetition of movements ( espcially during chases ) and waste of dialogue that hardly passes for witty ( the closest comes with Stan's reply after Ollie says he can't hear anything from a rabbit whistle : " Rabbits don't make any sounds " - or something like that ) . You don't even get to hear Ollie's " Here's another nice mess you've gotten me into ! " here . So in summation , this " Laurel and Hardy " cartoon episode-No Moose Is a Good Moose-was a complete waste of time for me .
Plane Dumb features the worst in racial stereotyping	While credited as a Tom and Jerry cartoon , this is not the cat-and-mouse team but an earlier Mutt-and-Jeff rip-off featuring them going to Africa and disguising themselves in the stereotypical burnt cork makeup to try to blend in . While the dialect humor is mostly lame , there is a brief musical sequence involving " black skeletons " that was entertaining . I have to ask however , how could Tom and Jerry still have their makeup stay on even after being dumped in the water a couple of times ? One of many entries produced by the Van Beuren Corporation for distribution by RKO Radio Pictures before RKO made a deal with Disney . Only worth seeing if you're an animation buff or is interested in how certain ethnicities were stereotyped as entertainment way back when .
Easy Virture is one of Alfred Hitchcock's very lesser works	Don't expect typical Hitchcock touches in this early silent of his called Easy Virture since this isn't even a suspense film but more of a melodrama about a divorced woman who can't escape her past , a past in which her then-husband discovered her painter's infatuation with her , which he mistakes for an affair , and gets shot by him but survives though the painter later commits suicide ( which I wouldn't have known about if I hadn't read the synopsis on the DVD case back ) . Shamed by the courts , she flees to France where she falls in love again , marries , and returns to England where her mother-in-law automatically gets suspicious of her . What I just described is something ( at least the mother-in-law part ) that I've seen on many TV shows and movies that usually ends with the woman winning everyone-or almost everyone-over . Not this time . Personally , I found this mostly boring and some scenes ( like the about-to-be-ex-husband " hitting " the painter with his cane that looked so fake ) so ludicrous . The only interesting camera angle I saw here was when it cut to the top of the judge's wig before he looked up and his face came in close-up . This happened twice . It probably didn't help that there were no music or sound effects on the DVD I got . So if you're an Alfred Hitchcock completist , by all means see this . Otherwise , worth avoiding .
This " Milton the Monster " cartoon entry was enough for my curiosity . . .	Being a frequent seeker on the Saturday Morning Blog , I discovered this ' 60s television cartoon series there in their Halloween sites . The episode shown was called " The Hearse Thief " which concerns Prof . Weirdo and Count Kook's searching for the one who stole their funeral car . Milton is the chief suspect since they found him driving it without permission . With the standard limited animation of this era , the movements were very stilted so that's one minus here . Then there's the lame jokes so another minus . And finally , the characterizations were beyond dull for me so that's one more strike for me . They're out concerning whatever interest I initially had in seeing this rare showing of this forgotten cartoon series . So with that , I'm giving " Milton the Monster " 1 star . . .
This version of " Buck Rogers " is one of the most amateurish things I've ever seen	This early film version of the comic strip " Buck Rogers in the 25th Century " which was drawn by Dick Calkins ( who appears as himself in the beginning at the drawing board ) and published by the John F . Dille company , is a very amateurish 10-minute short with stilted writing , monotonous acting , and laughable special effects done on obvious models of spaceships during the battle scenes . Despite that , those models probably made a mint at the 1934 Chicago World's Fair when they were displayed near the screenings . The publisher's son , John Dille , Jr . portrays the title character with his girlfriend playing leading lady Wilma Deering and magician Dr . Harlan Tarbell , who's also the director , playing scientist Dr . Huer . This is the kind of film that cries out for either Joel or Mike and the ' bots from " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " to make their own commentary about the shoddiness of this whole enterprise ! I discovered this on the Matinée at the Bijou blog which ran an article about this rare piece of film history . Watch this on YouTube at your own risk !
Open the Door Richard was a complete waste of time for me	In a sketch performed in front of a nightclub audience that provides scattered laughs throughout , a drunk in top hat gets thrown out by a bar proprietor along with a ladder the drunk brought in . He constantly tries to get his roommate Richard to open the door to no avail . He also climbs the nearly closed ladder for no particular reason . The end . A couple of things to mention : IMDb lists Stepin Fetchit as playing Richard but he doesn't appear here , and despite the title of this short , no song of the same name is performed which is what I expected when I discovered this on Internet Archive . So on that note , what I just watched was a complete waste of time for me with nothing funny to recommend here .
Santa's Magic Kingtom is awful but mercifully short	Through some links at Cartoon Brew , I discovered the name K . Gordon Murray who was known for some of the schlockiest films of the ' 60s and early ' 70s . Santa's Magic Kingdom was the first of these I found on YouTube . It basically takes place in Santa's Village in the summer in either the Midwestern or southern California U . S . since it was filmed in those places . There's also Puss in Boots , the Easter Bunny , Stinky the Skunk ( familiar to Murray enthusiasts ) , the Ferocious Wolf ( really a softie ) , and " the greatest magician of all " Merlin . It seems an ogre ( a wooden dinosaur in one scene ) is threatening to make the children bad " like me " so Merlin tries to put a stop to that while everyone watches . Then we hear a sappy song from the princess about " whistlin " as this painfully amateurish short mercifully ends . The obvious bad dubbing of the voices do not match the faces here at all and every scene screams " one-take " . Makes me wish " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " was still on the air because this one definitely calls for riffing by Joel / Mike and the ' bots . Merlin , especially , deserves all the talking back with his attitude ! Avoid at all costs .
All Amateur Ecstasy was a pretty lame short I found on atom . com	Just watched this very brief short on atom . com . Three women in separate rooms all seem to be reaching orgasm . There are constant cuts between all three of them . In addition , a man is watching one of them ( the woman is at work so the man is supposedly her boss ) . And then . . . they all sneeze ! The end . I suppose if I didn't halfway think of wanting to see something erotic , I probably would of thought this was really funny and maybe when I think of this later I will . But being up real late , I was just not really thinking this was even remotely funny . I guess I'll give this one a 2 . Sorry , it's just how I feel right now . It was cleverly filmed , however . . .
Little Lambkin was a way below average Max Fleischer Color Classic cartoon	Just watched this rare Max Fleischer Color Classic on YouTube . The title character is a toddler boy who-when his parents are temporarily away-loves to play with animal friends , a raccoon and a squirrel . Together they eat a whole watermelon . But this day , the boy has to move to the city where he has to deal with electrical appliances . In order to move back to his previous home , this toddler proceeds to switch many electrical plugs that makes a refrigerator into a stove , etc . . . I've just described most of the cartoon and I'm not very impressed with the results . The watermelon sequences in the beginning and end were amusing but the chaos with the switched plugs in the city kitchen was too ridiculous even for an animated cartoon . And the boy himself was too bratty for my tastes when he constantly cried about not wanting to move . So unless you're a Max Fleischer completist , I wouldn't recommend Little Lambkin .
Felix Minds the Kid is uninspiring	Felix Minds the Kid starts with the cat coming to the fish market trying to get some food . The fish manager throws him out saying , " I'll give you the devil if you come back here ! " Felix goes to a nearby barrel that says " fresh today " . He uses his tail to get whatever is in the barrel and gets bitten by a crab ! The crab is still literally on his tail as Felix walks through a thin log that causes the crab to get stuck . Felix then goes to a nearby house where he encounters a baby carriage and a shoe . As he attempts to eat the shoe , he hears a baby crying in the house as his father blows a trumpet to cheer him up . As the trumpet blows , three toy soldiers are now marching in step . The baby resumes crying after the father stops playing . Felix hears and offers his services . The father says , " If you watch my kid for an hour , I'll give you some feed . " He leaves as Felix tries to cheer the kid by bouncing a ball on his tail . The baby laughs after one of the toy soldiers hits Felix on the tail with his rifle ! Felix then blows a balloon , gives it to the baby who sucks its air and becomes inflatable floating away from the house ! Felix chases inflatable baby with carriage to a building with a pole . As baby hangs to pole , a crow comes to baby and pops him back to normal ! Baby cries and lands back in carriage as Felix takes him to a nursery . He then goes off to get a candy cane as baby gets invited to come in nursery by another baby . As Felix gets candy cane , he finds carriage missing baby and goes back to house to find father seething mad and saying , " If that cat doesn't get my kid back in five minutes , I'll skin him alive ! " Felix , thinking about this , hurries back to nursery to find lots of babies looking alike ! He then attempts to get father's baby by using candy cane to lure him out . Baby comes out and then tells fellow nursery mates to follow him . They do as Felix leads not noticing crowd . As the father sees the various babies coming he faints as Felix turns around , sees the big crowd of kids , and changes his cane into a floating umbrella as we iris out . This short doesn't have too many gags and I found myself bored watching it . Go watch if you're a Felix completist , otherwise skip it .
Scream Bloody Murder is low-level garbage that may provide some amusing moments	Having just watched this on YouTube and read several of the comments here , I've concluded that while Scream Bloody Murder has some effective scenes , some partially good performances from the two leads , and an interesting early bit from Angus Scrimm ( Phantasm ) , this is just mostly junk that has inconsistent characterizations ( Matthew , having spent most of his life in a convent with a hook hand , is actually able to drive and actually found the car's key for the stolen vehicle on such short notice , really ? ) , randomly gratuitous killings ( what was that doomed young married couple thinking when they let Matthew ride with them ? ) , and painful dialogue ( especially Matthew's constantly saying " Now we can be free " to both his mother and Vera who he calls " Daisy " since she resembles his mother-no surprise since the actress is the same ) . Anyone expecting logic should look elsewhere . And part of me wonders how the " MST3K " gang would have ' riffed on this picture . Occasionally , there are some unintentional amusements like when that old lady hit Matthew with her canes or when that dog , seeing him pick that now-dead lady up , was just staring at him ! LOL ! And how about when that delivery boy kept knocking and talking for more than a few minutes even though no one was answering ! And that near-sex scene with " Daisy " and Matthew did turn me on . But with all the inconsistencies I just mentioned , I can't quite recommend Scream Bloody Murder . It's on YouTube , however , if you want to see this for free .
There Goes the Bride and my $1 . 00 purchase . . .	There Goes the Bride is a very witless fantasy-comedy that is even more disappointing when you consider the cast : Tom Smothers , Twiggy , Martin Balsam , Broderick Crawford , Hermione Baddeley , Jim Backus , Phil Silvers , and Graham Stark . All have had better roles in better pictures or TV shows . None can save the very lame material here . I do have to admit to some charm concerning some dance moves by Smothers and Twiggy when they reenact Astaire and Rogers in their prime . Those scenes make the picture somewhat tolerable . There was even some amusement at the way it all ended . Otherwise , this movie is not even worth the $1 . 00 I paid for this DVD which was double billed with the mediocre It Seemed Like a Good Idea at the Time which featured a young John Candy . Avoid at all costs unless you're really curious .
Kisser Plant is a weird and boring Terrytoons short	Kisser Plant is a Terrytoons short starring Oscar , a human , and Astro Nut , a space creature . The title character is a gift from Astro Nut after Oscar tells him about wanting something for his garden . Problem is , the plant grows as big as a bean stalk and loves to kiss constantly including policemen and soldiers ! This is one weird cartoon that , unfortunately , doesn't provide any laughs , just repetition of the plant kissing everything in sight . And the ending can be predicted by anyone who's seen various other cartoons on Saturday morning or on the weekday afternoons in past decades before talk shows took over . Only recommended for anyone who feels a need to see all Terrytoons .
The Rasslin ' Match is one of two cartoons adapted from the " Amos ' n ' Andy " radio show	The Rasslin ' Match was the first of two Van Beuren cartoons based on the " Amos ' n ' Andy " radio series using that show's stars Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll . In this one , the Kingfish has Andy fighting the wrestling champ for money . On seeing this on YouTube , the print was not good , in fact it seemed partly blurry . Creative wise , the black caricatures border on the offensive with the white lips and , except for the end when Andy keeps hitting the champ when he gets knocked to and fro on the ring , I didn't find any of this cartoon funny . I'd only recommend this for anyone interested in all things " Amos ' n ' Andy " . Otherwise , stay away .
Dumb Like a Fox is just plain dumb	In this Columbia cartoon short , a father hound refuses to take his son fox hunting until he gets older . Since the son has never seen a fox , a fox convinces the little hound to get one that's near in the forest . What the son sees is a beaver slicing a chopped tree trunk like a whole lunchenmeat and spitting the pieces to make a dam . He later spits a doghouse for the child hound when the child comes after him . After the beaver tells little hound he's not a fox , that hound once again meets the fox who leads him to an animal he tells is certainly a fox . The animal the son now has on a leash is actually a skunk . As his father waits for his son's return , he sees the skunk with him and screams as he shovels , with his paws , dirt on his son as the fox laughs to the end of the cartoon . . . This is a pretty dull cartoon with most of the scenes focused on the very obnoxious kid hound who reminds me of both Henry Hawk and Scrappy Doo . Henry Hawk had at least Foghorn Leghorn as his nemesis in those witty Warner Bros . cartoons . The fox here is some smooth British gentleman type with no chemistry with the little hound . Animation is good but I found the whole thing forced and unfunny . I do not recommended Dumb Like a Fox but if you're curious about this obscure Columbia cartoon , it's available on YouTube .
Felix disappoints with Outdoor Indore	Outdoor Indore is yet another disappointment from Felix's late era at the Pat Sullivan Studio . Felix tries to join the circus . He goes to the fire department and gets a hose , attachés it to the fire hydrant , and presents it to the ringmaster ( Why , I don't know ! ) . An angry fireman turns on the apparently stolen hose which douses Felix and sends him to India . He encounters a boy sucking on a huge peppermint stick . When Felix encounters him , the stick is now standing on the ground . The boy leaves and Felix grabs the stick which turns into a tiger's tail . The tiger chases Felix who turns into a cactus that the tiger passes . As the tiger stops , the cactus behind him turns back to Felix and takes the tiger's stripes which become a ladder ! Felix climbs the ladder and with his glasses spots from afar a man playing a cornet which causes a snake to appear from his basket . Felix detaches his tail and plays it like a flute causing a snake each to appear in the two holes Felix is between . Felix jumps to a tree branch so that the snakes jump out of their holes to form a unicycle . On the unicycle , he sees a man driving a wagon with an exhausted elephant leading . Felix goes to the elephant to offer him a job at the circus where he will get adulation . The elephant accepts and he and Felix boards the next boat available . As the ship leaves , it leans heavily on the side the elephant and Felix are on making the captain on the other side furious . Felix tells the elephant to drink the water so he does . With all the seawater gone , they walk to the customs officer who is greeted by the elephant's seawater from his trunk ! Felix and the elephant walk to the ringmaster who offers them a job . They are a hit with the audience as the film iris out . This might have been an attempt to make Felix more of a heartwarming character but it doesn't really work here . And the gags seem to have a " been there , done that " kind of feel , so lacking is the timing . Perhaps the sound era and Pat Sullivan's ailments are contributing factors to these disappointing last shorts . Certainly the competition from Disney and Fleischer couldn't have helped . After a few years , Felix would be gone but would be briefly revived by Van Buren and then fully revived by the late ' 50s on television for a new audience .
Going ' to Heaven on a Mule is worse than nearly all the Warner " Censored 11 " cartoons	Just discovered on the Misce-Looney-ous site linked to YouTube this rare Warner Bros . cartoon short directed by Friz Freling that's NOT on the " Censored 11 " list . Based on the final number in the Al Jolson picture Wonder Bar , this cartoon is awash in offensive stereotypes of African-Americans like having one take to drink constantly and another one automatically eat a watermelon and a few more automatically playing dice in Heaven which here is called Pair-O'-Dice ( Paradise , get it ? ) . And their faces all resembles monkeys , aaarrrggggg ! The only thing that's remotely entertaining here is the title number which doesn't surprise me since Freling often made good musical cartoons . So for that alone , this cartoon gets two stars , otherwise I'd only recommend this for Warner animation completists .
Tangled Travels is one very lame cartoon from the so-called Golden Age	This was a spoof of travelogue shorts shown in theatres in the ' 30s and ' 40s as filler before the double feature . You hear some stereotypical Swedish voice narrating while we're looking at some animated figures moving over some live-action backgrounds . There are mostly literal jokes ( babbling brook with a bunch of dismembered mouths moving loudly , weeping willows with many of them crying , etc . ) that are very lamely depicted here ( they lack the pacing of a Tex Avery cartoon that might have done wonders ) . Dave Fleischer is the credited producer here and , compared to the shorts he collaborated with his brother Max , is not well served . The fault of this cartoon's lameness goes to writer / director Alec Geiss . Nothing here is funny except the ending since it reflects my feelings exactly . So unless you're an animation buff who's curious about this , I wouldn't recommend Tangled Travels .
Greddy Gabby Gator is the last in series of him pursuing Woody Woodpecker	This cartoon marked the last time Gabby Gator appeared in a Woody Woodpecker cartoon and the only time he was directed by Sid Marcus , Gator being a creation of the departed Jack Hannah . It's basically another of Gabby's useless pursuits of Woody for food . Seeing Woody getting sick and viewing a 3-D image of Gabby's finger-pointing is fascinating for a few seconds but otherwise it's just a witless series of tricks of Woody thinking he's having a bath while he's really being cooked . And seeing a crocodile constantly trying to eat Gabby makes absolutely no sense . Greedy Gabby Gator is only recommended for Walter Lantz completists .
Mother Hubba-Hubba-Hubbard is another one of those mediocre Columbia cartoons	I just discovered on Thad's Animation Blog in his series of " Your Saturday Morning Bowl of WTF " . WTF is right as , like other cartoons made by Columbia Pictures in the ' 40s , this cartoon makes absolutely no sense even with the simple story of a dog trying to find his bone with his suspects being the title character , a mouse , and , of course , a butler . The only time I laughed was when Mother Hubbard was eating the poisoned eggs and bacon , which looked like skull and crossbones , and accidentally and temporarily took the black nose off of the dog . That surprised me like hell ! There's also the unfortunate stereotype of the train ticket taker in the form of a black caricature of a tall monkey depicted here . So on that note , I'd say Mother Hubba-Hubba-Hubbard is worth a look for any buff of old animation , otherwise stay away .
I Want My Mummy is a mediocre effort of a Jose Jimenez cartoon	I Want My Mummy is the first time I've encountered the character of Jose Jimenez , created by comedian Bill Dana . Jose goes to a restaurant and is told by the waiter that an all-you-can-eat buffet is $5 . Jose only has a penny which he uses to get three peanuts from a candy machine . A bird comes by and eats them all . Still starving , Jose then gets a job as an archeologist's assistant as they leave by boat to go to the lost city of another land . Here they almost get eaten by natives before finding the lost city . His boss finds the mummy as Jose reads that anyone who touches the mummy's crown gets his head shrunken . Actually , the boss ' head is fine , it's the rest of his body that's . . . I found some lines amusing but the animation was crudely low-budget ( typical of many ' 60s efforts ) . This was one of many mediocre efforts of Paramount Cartoons during the last decade of production that rarely gets played on television today . Worth a look once as you check this out on Cartoon Brew which linked this from YouTube .
The version I saw of Boys Will Be Joys was abridged to one reel	This Hal Roach comedy short , Boys Will Be Joys , is the forty-second in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . The version I saw was on Goodtimes ' VHS of " Our Gang Comedy Festival II " . It was a shortened one-reel version of an originally two-reel film . And since this version was handled by a company other than the original Hal Roach Studios or their distributor Pathe Exchange , the series title was " Those Lovable Scallawags with Their Gangs " with the episode title being " Carnival Time " . With the original H . M . Walker inter-titles removed , here's the synopsis , in my own words , I partly got from the definitive book on the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series by Leonard Maltin and Richard W . Bann : While the gang has plans for a new amusement park in an acre of their choosing , the surveyor tells them it's being used for a future factory . Undeterred , they see the sixty-year-old president of the land-owning company who has the heart of a ten-year-old . After hearing the gang's story , he decides to make their dream come true and walks out on his own meeting ! The board of directors follow him hoping to get the chairman to agree to get him voted off . In the end , with the kids and some of the men helping in operating the makeshift rides , the president tells the board he's retiring and vows to think as young as the gang are . . . Not very amusing and the rides seem not to convincing as simply the creation of the kids-even with the financier's fun-loving aid . There is an interesting angle of a fluidly moving shot of a boy going backwards on a slide in a wheel-less vehicle that was partly fascinating . I was also amused by Farina's displaying of a " Wild Animal " in his tent-which turns out to be a skunk . Otherwise , Boys Will Be Joys was just an average " Our Gang " short .
Hocus Pocus Powwow was an underwhelming late Warner Bros . cartoon for me	This is one of those late ' 60s Warner Bros . theatrical cartoons that uses new characters instead of the classic Bugs , Daffy , Porky , etc . The star here is Merlin the Magic Mouse whose W . C . Fields-inspired voice is done by Larry Storch of TV's " F Troop " fame . He does all the other voices here like that of Second Bannana and the Indian Lo . Perhaps because of the obvious low-budget look , this cartoon was mostly " eh " to me . Whatever funny gags provided here come courtesy of Lo , the Poor Indian . Like when he gets Merlin's hat and pulls the rabbit out of it with that hare biting him on the nose . Or when Lo gets off a cliff , stands for a few seconds , then falls with the scene changing to the ground from up high with the impact signaled by a small smoke ( reminiscent of the Road Runner cartoons with While E . ' s impact ) . Then we see Lo running on a treadmill which he calls , " Portable warpath " . LOL ! Otherwise , this was mostly blah for me .
Felix the Cat Ducks His Duty is short on genuine laughs	Felix reads the newspaper with the headline that says mice are declaring war on cats . Despite this , Felix doesn't want to join but is forced to by a uniformed guard . When he arrives , it looks like Felix is the only feline there among very few others . When the mice first have smelly old cheese cannoned to Felix , the cat puts on his gas mask ! Then as the bombing gets really rough , he sees in the paper that married men are exempt from fighting . So he finds a female cat and weds her . Unfortunately , the wife tells him to get a job as rolling pins constantly fly ( both this and the bombing are illustrated by said objects flying on black backgrounds ) . After that , Felix goes back to the battlegrounds where he now sleeps peacefully ! Not a very funny cartoon , in fact , there are no sequences in which Felix changes into objects and other than the " old cheese " incident and the ending I just revealed , no real attempts at humor . So on that note , I'd only recommend Felix the Cat Ducks His Duty only to those completists who love this memorable character from the silent days .
Flesh Gordon is not very sexy nor funny , in fact , you may get bored . . .	For years , I've read of this soft-porn parody of Flash Gordon since it was advertised as one of several midnight movies listed as being at the ( now defunct ) Cinema 8 at the ( also folded ) Bon Marche Mall . While I've had it on tape for years , I've only now gotten to seeing it . The verdict : While there were some amusing scenes and dialogue and maybe some good nude scenes , I found most of it a bore . The acting , direction , and script had such an amateurish feeling that after a while I just simply wanted it to end . I did like many of the stop-motion creatures that recall Ray Harryhausen and his mentor Willis O'Brien at their most creative . I guess overall , this was too silly for my tastes . Worth a look at least once is all I can recommended for Flesh Gordon .
Jungle Jitters was another of the " Censored 11 " I recently discovered	This is another of the " Censored 11 " Warner Bros . cartoons that I found on Thad's Animation Blog . Thad thinks most of the gags are stupid but since Friz Freling directed this , there are at least a few clever ones like the Looney Tunes Theme - " The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down " - being depicted with these cannibals going up-and-down on a pole in a circle with a tent-like roof and a few others whistling in unison or the tall humanized salesman getting punched in the stomach . Besides that , however , the stereotypical characterizations pretty much defeats whatever entertainment value this short once had and dated references to old-time radio stars doesn't help . And what's with one of the natives speaking in a pseudo-stereotypical broken Chinese English ? And why is their leader a white prissy queen drawn as a chicken ? And why does she see the dog salesman as humanized Clark Gable and Robert Taylor ? If you're a Warner cartoon completest , I'd recommend Jungle Jitters for one time viewing . Otherwise , stay away .
Stereotypical Chinese abound in Terrytoons ' Chop Suey	Just saw on YouTube an early talkie Terrytoons short called Chop Suey . It seems to be mostly a stereotypical depiction of the Chinese-here portrayed as rats-and the way they run their laundry . Most of what happens here doesn't really make sense though there are some amusing gags like the way some things are flattened as well as a few Rube Goldberg devices and I also liked one sequence of a female rat walking down the street with something on her head while an instrumental of " Ain't She Sweet " plays as a score . There's also some interesting shots of the top of a building that some people walk on with a car following them . Otherwise , worth skipping unless you're a Terrytoons completist .
Sycamore Lodge was a rare episode of Calvin and the Colonel I managed to see	Having just discovered a site called From the Archives , I checked the section called Net Nights and found an animated program called " Calvin and the Colonel " on it . It would be the last time " Amos ' n ' Andy " creators and players Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll would collaborate together . Gosden would play the Colonel as a fox with the personality of George " Kingfish " Stevens with Correll as a dim-witted bear named Calvin with that of Andy . In this episode , the Colonel , having purchased a cabin that turns out to have been flooded , tries to sublet it to Calvin while his wife and sister-in-law do the same thing to someone else . This is basically an animated radio show with music scoring limited to transition scenes . The low-budget shows on how limited the animation really is and the laugh track really points out how lame the whole package truly is . In fact , I only laughed two times . Once when the Colonel says , " I've soured on the whole sex ! " , sotto voce , after telling his wife and sister-in-law how he's never looked at another woman in the last 20 years he's lived with them and again when , after he and Calvin see water coming out of the stove , the Colonel says , " The last tenant must have baked a spongecake in there ! " Former " Amos ' n ' Andy " writers Joe Connelly and Bob Mosher , the creators of " Leave It to Beaver " and " The Munsters " , wrote the script . Paul Frees is one of the voices here . All in all , this was a curio that I was at least glad to finally be able to view .
Search for Misery was a somewhat interesting animated serial spoof from Terrytoons	Just watched this last Terrytoons one-shot cartoon on Cartoon Brew as linked from YouTube . It's a spoof of radio soap operas complete with organ scoring and droning narration . The main character is Pitiful Penelope whose husband , Roland Stone , temporarily leaves her and the quintuplets by themselves . When Penelope hits a stop sign while running , she ends up in hospital so her friend , Big Dehlia , takes care of her babies while nemesis , Kay Niver , threatens to send them to foster care . . . Interesting spoof of a traditional format not to mention of some character poses though except for one scene of those quintuplets in a tug-of-war between Penelope and a foster caretaker , there isn't much that was funny visually . Still worth a look for enthusiasts of this once major cartoon studio named Terrytoons .
Sick , Sick , Sidney was interesting but that's all	Just watched this cartoon on ThadBlog . This Thad is an admirer of animator Jim Tyler and he considers this one of Tyler's best stint at Terrytoons when Gene Deitch took over creative control at the studio . The title character is a neurotic elephant who hates living in the jungle because of all the noise . Then when he finds some trappers coming , he doesn't want to be taken to the zoo . . . until he finds out they don't want him and they take his other friends ( among them , a lion and a giraffe ) instead . Well , at least Sidney gets his peace and quiet only it's TOO quiet . . . While it's interesting seeing the elephant trying to change shape in order to look like a gazelle or a snake to avoid being taken by those trappers and then do a 180 when he finds out how uninterested they are in him , I didn't really find this short funny at all and the lead character was just irritating . And I guess the animation was too limited for my tastes . So on that note , I really can't recommend Sick , Sick , Sidney .
Barney Oldfield's Race for a Life is mostly blah but interesting to see once	Having recently discovered the films of Mabel Normand and seen some of her great slapstick scenes with Roscoe " Fatty " Arbuckle , Barney Oldfield's Race for a Life was a big disappointment for me since Ms . Normand spends most of the short film tied onto railroad tracks because villain Ford Sterling didn't accept Mabel's rejection of his advances ( glad to see her do so by knocking him down , however ! ) . When her bashful boyfriend Mack Sennett finds out , he gets real-life race car driver Barney Oldfield to help him rush to her rescue . Also on hand are the Keystone Kops who get a hilarious scene at the end . Other than that and some of Mr . Sterling's over-the-top performance , this was mostly blah for me . Worth a look at least once for silent movie buffs . I saw this on YouTube with a score that contained some modern music from John Williams and other scores from recent movies and TV shows .
Meet Corliss Archer : The Vase That Came for Dinner is only slightly amusing	Mrs . Archer buys a vase that her husband is not too crazy about but he tolerates it . Next door neighbor teen Dexter suggests to Mr . Archer to use a plant to make vase less noticeable . Mr . Archer breaks vase . Dexter uses glue to hold vase together . He accidentally pours glue on duck Mr . Archer is cooking for dinner . After accidentally breaking vase again , Mr . Archer buys another one which we later find out has several copies available . During dinner , everyone is enjoying their duck except Mr . Archer whose food is sticking on his hands and in his mouth ! Meanwhile , Dexter's mother keeps getting different copies of the same statue from first her husband , then Corliss , then Mrs . Archer , and then Dexter . She puts one on a table and hides the other ones in the closet . Husband breaks the table one without wife noticing and goes to son Dexter to glue it together . Wife comes and discovers the broken vase and goes to her closet to replace it . Because father had been forgetting things lately , Dexter thinks he's crazy after finding vase fixed . He then thinks everyone else is such when after confessing buying the vase for his mom , his father , Mrs . Archer , and Corliss say the same thing ! It all clears up after Dexter opens closet and accidentally removes shelf . . . This is a silly and amusing episode , at least during the duck dinner . It gets a little bland and boring by the end . So it may be interesting to those who like ' 50s sitcoms . Otherwise avoid .
All This and Rabbit Stew is one " Censored 11 " cartoon that deserves it's fate	This is another of the Warner Bros . " Censored 11 " cartoons that aren't shown on commercial television anymore and the only one with their star character , Bugs Bunny . In this one , the hunter is not Elmer Fudd but a caricatured black man with the big white lips and the slow drawl that's a carbon copy of the Stepin Fetchit character . It's largely because of this stereotypical characterization that this cartoon is banned and in this case , I don't blame them . While there are still some funny gags typical of Tex Avery ( such as when Bugs ' various body parts quickly disconnect when he gets scared ) , the Fetchit character's presence makes the whole thing uncomfortable , especially during the final sequence when he's challenged to a crap game . So unless you're a completist of the Bunny , Avery , and / or Warner cartoons , I don't recommend All This and Rabbit Stew .
Krazy Kat , Bugologist is an interesting curio of the silent animation era	I agree with the previous reviewer that nothing really happens in this cartoon ( Krazy and Ignaz finds bee , thinks its dead , bee comes alive . Then elephant comes and is scared by Ignaz . The end . ) though its animation is pretty interesting for the era it occurred . The animator's name is Frank Moser who later was in partnership with Paul Terry when he formed Terrytoons in the ' 30s . Since 10 lines is required for me to finish this comment , I'll also say that before Felix the Cat , many animation stars originally came from comic strips like Krazy Cat and Ignaz , The Katzenjamer Kids , or Mutt and Jeff . It wasn't until King Features ' Popeye was adapted for animation by the Max Fleischer studio in the ' 30s , however , that a successful transition was made from newspaper page to the silver screen . But that probably wouldn't have happened without his predecessors I've just mentioned .
Live-action Underdog may be more entertaining for kids than adults	When I saw the trailer for Underdog with my friend , he thought it would be good while I thought it would be just mediocre . With the actual movie those were the thoughts each of us had of it since he laughed at most of it while I just sat there only occasionally chuckling . With Disney's name on it , I pretty much expected some lessons and cutesy humor that kids would eat up and make us sophisticated adults want something more . . . sophisticated . With a cast like Peter Dinklage , Patrick Warburton , John Slattery , James Belushi ( okay , maybe not him ) , and the voices of Brad Garrett and Jason Lee as the title character , part of me hoped maybe some clever lines would come out of them , not so . Most of the humor is visual and not wacky-visual but more amusingly-playful-visual though the scene that Underdog does to the Garrett-voiced dog at the end made me laugh a little loud . So , like I said , this wasn't hilarious , just partly amusing . The beginning with scenes of the actual Underdog cartoons were probably the most entertaining along with some of the bloopers at the end . All in all , kids under 12 will probably enjoy this more than childless adults . P . S . I saw this with a trailer of Alvin and the Chipmunks with Lee as the live-action David Seville . I hope that isn't as mediocre as this one .
Three Broadway Girls had some witty lines but the situations confused me	I bought a $1 DVD that had two movies about a year ago . The movies were Happy Go Lovely and this one , Three Broadway Girls . This tale of three lady friends who try to one-up each other in attracting rich men has some witticisms about them and the leads of Joan Blondell , Ina Claire , and Madge Evans are pretty good . It's the situations that got me a little confused and possibly bored since I almost fell asleep a couple of times . I suppose I could try to watch this again when I'm more alert and I think of how the plot plays out in my mind . Maybe by then , this would play a little better in my mind . Right now though , I'm giving this a 3 . By the way , for Laurel and Hardy fans , Arthur Housman does appear in his usual drunk role here .
Skulls and Sculls is a disappointing Felix entry	Skulls and Sculls starts with two eyes in the dark going back and forth . When the lights come on we find Felix crying in front of a lot of people in sheets . He is in a fraternity initiation . Felix gets blindfolded and then a goat comes for Felix to ride on . The goat bumps Felix up and down before going down a flight of stairs . The stairs turn into a dragon . Felix tries to escape before he finds some window bars which he plays like a harp . Those bars turn into four ostriches ' legs that run away . Felix then jumps some pond rocks one of which turn into a pelican's head with fish . Another turns into a sheeted person who chases Felix . Felix heads him off and comes to a bridge which shakes as he comes on . It turns into a tree branch pulled by another frat brother ! Felix comes swinging to the house exhausted but now initiated ! Two of the brothers hoist Felix singing " He's a Jolly Good Fellow " . It is now time for the boat race . Now he's followed by his three frat brothers , each carrying an oar . His competitors are four giraffes and an elephant . At one point , Felix and his team go up a waterfall ( or maybe it was the four giraffes , the cuts are confusing here ) . Felix and his teammates become exhausted . He detaches his tail which wakes up a fish who thinks it's a worm ( I'm guessing by this point the tail becomes an outboard motor with the fish following , again confusing cuts ) . Felix wins the race and once again gets hoisted by his frat brothers for another round of " He's a Jolly Good Fellow " . The End . As you can tell , this is confusing even for a Felix short . The fraternity initiation sets a good mood for a Halloween type cartoon but it falls apart with the boat race . I don't even know if the cuts were real or if somebody spliced too much frames ! The synchronization seems to be a bit off too . Maybe they were trying to rush release this during Felix's waning days while Mickey Mouse was winning public adulation after Steamboat Willie ( 1928 ) . Only see this if you're a Felix completist or animation buff . Otherwise , not recommended .
Gadmouse the Apprentice Good Fairy is a bland early effort of Ralph Bakshi	In Leonard Maltin's book on movie animation studios , Of Mice and Magic , in the Terrytoons chapter , he mentioned Ralph Bakshi's Sad Cat as " perhaps the dreariest character in the studio's history " . With the cat's mostly lethargic demeanor being the characterization here , Maltin has a point . This short is a reworking of the Cinderella tale with Sad Cat as the one who has to slave for Stepbrother No . 1 and 2 . The title character is a mouse fairy who is trying to step out of his low-class status which he can achieve if he creates a happy ending for someone . So the classic story goes through its paces until some amusing scenes between Gadmouse and Sad Cat has the cat wearing a white dress and literally dancing his butt off ( loved Bakshi's angles on the derrière when he cuts on the cat's back ) . After the time is up with the stepbrothers wanting to punch Sad Cat for deceiving them , an agent arrives and offers Sad a contract for some shows . So supposedly , Gadmouse becomes a first-class fairy because of this . Instead , the title cat still has to clean his own costumes with Gadmouse resigned to his fate . The dance is the highlight of this mostly bland and dreary short from the final days of Terrytoons . Still , worth a look on YouTube for anyone interested in some of Bakshi's earliest work as an animation director .
Mouse Trek was a slightly amusing Paramount cartoon from Ralph Bakshi	This was one of the last of the Famous / Paramount cartoons . It was directed by Ralph Bakshi just after his Terrytoons period and before his adult animation period that started with Fritz the Cat the following year . In this one , a uniformed cat is sent to a planet to get rid of a giant mouse . With each failure to complete his mission , he keeps trying to quit but he keeps getting medals to change his mind . He then digs a hole next to the mouse and puts barrels of explosives inside . . . The most amusing part of this cartoon was when the cat first sees the mouse , he pantomimes with his hand the little size he expected and then nervously raises it to confront the reality of the giant size he faces . The constant medals he gets to inspire him is also pretty good . Otherwise , this was pretty mediocre especially with the limited animation . By the way , the cat bears a resemblance to Bakshi's dreary Sad Cat from Terrytoons .
Inspector Clouseau is the " odd one " of the Pink Panther series	After Blake Edwards and Peter Sellers turned down The Mirisch Company's offer to make a third movie starring the French inspector ( instead they made The Party for them ) , the film unit offered Clouseau to just established comic actor Alan Arkin who accepted . Bud Yorkin , who is usually partnered with Norman Lear , became the director . Ken Thorne replaced Henry Mancini as the score composer . And the screenwriters became Tom and Frank Waldman , both of whom would later collaborate with Edwards on subsequent Pink Panther screenplays . With all that new talent , Inspector Clouseau is not completely embarrassing but it's not anywhere close to a classic either . In fact , the whole thing feels rushed much of the time despite some good gags thought of by the Waldmans like the cigarette lighter that becomes a lazer beam or a recording device that causes chaos because of the traffic noise that comes out of it or seeing Clouseau accidentally setting a roman candle in the study room . I also liked Clouseau's fight with " himself " and his near sexual encounters with Mrs . Weaver ( Beryl Reid ) and those two lingerie girls . Then there's that pay phone scene where Arkin keeps putting buttons as he mentions various " relatives " to thank . And how about that belt that shoots bullets . Not to mention that scene where the Inspector mistakes a Western movie robbery scheme for a real heist plan ( watch the movie if you want to know what I'm talking about ) . Otherwise , there are long stretches where there are scenes that are too frantic to provide any laughs . And unlike Sellers ' characterization , Arkin's Clouseau seems a bit pitiful to provide much empathy as he mentions to potential girlfriend Lisa Morrel ( Delia Boccardo ) how " everything I touch , I ruin " . And Patrick Cargil as Commissioner Sir Charles Braithwaite and Frank Finley as Weaver have nothing on Hebert Lom's Dreyfus or Graham Stark's Hercule ( though I did like the intro scene with Braithwaite and Clouseau as each keeps changing positions and table objects ) . Also , Barry Foster-who I first saw and enjoyed in Alfred Hitchcock's Frenzy-doesn't make a very compelling villain here as Addison Steele . So with none of the people associated with the Pink Panther movies involved , it's understandable why not very many people count this one among the entries especially considering its reputation of not being very good though I do count this since one of the credits read " Based on a character created by Blake Edwards and Maurice Richlin " . Oh , and the DePatie-Freleng animated opening credits ( which actually begin the film as opposed to a Cold Open ) aren't as funny as the ones for The Pink Panther or A Shot in the Dark . But if you're a Pink Panther completist , I'd recommend Inspector Clouseau ( which if Peter Sellers had agreed to star in , might have been changed to " Inspector Clouseau Goes to London " ) for at least one viewing . Next up , The Return of the Pink Panther . . .
Christmas is a slightly enjoyable holiday movie	Christmas with the Kranks is a slightly amusing , slightly heartwarming slapstick comedy starring Tim Allen and Jamie Lee Curits as the title couple who initially want to skip the holidays because their only offspring , a daughter , is leaving the country to join the Peace Corps . In fact , Luther Krank is planning to leave with his wife for a cruise on that very day . As a result , they get harassed by the neighbors led by Dan Aykroyd . Other neighbors include M . Emmet Walsh , Felicity Huffman , Caroline Rhea . There's also a couple of cops ( Cheech Marin , Jake Busey ) who Luther refuses to buy the annual police calendar from . Also appearing are David L . Lander , who I fondly remember as Squiggy on " Laverne and Shirley " , as a tanning customer who causes Curtis to hit her head on the tanning bed and , in his last role , the late Tom Poston as a priest who discovers Jamie in her bikini after she goes to the receptionist for a band-aid . Those scenes were funny as were those between Allen and a white cat that he keeps stepping on ( also loved when the cat got frozen with only the eyes moving ) and his botox scene when he has trouble putting things in his mouth . Others were either too frantic or too predictable . Best surprise was Austin Pendleton as someone no one knows at first but then Allen remembers from somewhere else . Like I said , this wasn't very funny but by the end I was willing to overlook many of the film's flaws and just enjoy the celebration that filled the last 30 minutes with wonderful singing from Aykroyd and nice accompaniment from Marin , Busey , and especially Poston in his final minutes of screen time . Oh , and Rhea and Huffman are completely wasted in their few minutes as Curtis ' neighbors . Still , a tolerable time waster from screenwriter Chris Columbus who adopted John Grisham's novel " Skipping Christmas " , and director Joe Roth .
Buddy's Show Boat is another Looney Tunes-time filler pre-Porky	This is another Leon Schlesinger-Looney Tune-Buddy cartoon I recently discovered on YouTube . With the leading character being such a bland creation , the animators must have simply thought of weird material to keep themselves awake while making these boring time fillers . Buddy's Show Boat is so obviously pre-Code when the bells on the telephone look like a lady's breasts and we see the villain looking at Buddy's girlfriend Cookie in a lecherous manner with us also enjoying the view ( for those who like looking at such things ) ! For anyone interested in seeing these vintage cartoons and how different they are to today's , this is certainly worth a look . Otherwise , the easily bored should probably avoid . By the way , the YouTube version is not the best print .
Buddy's Theatre was just a slightly amusing cartoon starring the always bland Buddy	Buddy runs a movie theatre . The feature stars his crush Cookie . Before that , there's " Passe News " , a preview trailer , and " Rejected Short Subjects " . In the feature , Cookie performs on a piano and sings until a gorilla comes through her window . Buddy sees this and vows to " save " Cookie . Now that I told you the synopsis , I'll just say that while there are some amusing gags here and the animation is quite good , the short doesn't have much of a plot and , as usual , Buddy is just the blandest character ever created for Warner Bros . This character was created because when Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising took Bosko with them to M-G-M , Leon Schlesinger was left without a regular cartoon character for his animated shorts . Lucky for us , Porky Pig would be created the same year this short was made . . .
Buddy Steps Out was an early start for animators Chuck Jones and Bob Clampett	This being my first viewing of a Buddy cartoon from Leon Schlesinger after losing Harmon-Ising's Bosko to M-G-M , I have to say it's a good thing Tex Avery arrived a year later so animators Bob Clampett and Chuck Jones didn't get stuck with such bland material such as what is done here . While Buddy and Cookie go out , a picture of the main character comes to life and with the statue Atlas ' help , brings a frozen bird inside who starts chirping to a tune on the radio with many other characters in the house coming to life . Reminiscent of other Warner Bros . cartoons with similar formats , Buddy Steps Out is hardly any different but knowing that the animators would eventually be two of the most creative staff members of Termite Terrace , this one is certainly worth a look . By the way , director Jack King originally was raided from Disney . When he returned there , he'd be Donald Duck's resident helmer before his retirement in 1947 .
Buddy the Gee Man was another partially amusing cartoon starring perhaps Warner's blandest leading man	This was another cartoon starring perhaps the blandest character created for Warner Bros . - Buddy . In this one , he's a detective who's hired to spy on the goings-on at a prison . He finds out the warden is cruel to all his prisoners so Buddy makes sure he's fired ! Then Buddy takes over and gives them all treats ! In between , there's a few numbers in " Sing-Song Prison " . . . It's the score that keeps this animated short moving to somewhat entertaining end . There are some slightly amusing gags and like many of these ' 30s efforts , the animation moves briskly . It's just the leading character that fails to charm . Still , I'd recommend Buddy the Gee Man be seen once if you're a Warner cartoon completist .
I'm just commenting on the Groucho Marx-Carole Landis segment I saw on VHS tape . . .	I'm not reviewing the entire content of Screen Snapshots : Hollywood's Greatest Comedians , just one segment-that of Groucho Marx and Carole Landis singing " Song of the West " . This silly song makes whimsical fun of country western music in front of an appreciative audience of either soldiers or sailors as they take a break from all the battles of World War II . My favorite line ( and judging from the reactions of the audience , theirs too ) was Groucho's " So let's put another cowboy on the fire " . The reason I'm just commenting on this segment is because it's the only one from this short subject I've seen as presented on an old ' 80s Goodtimes VHS tape called Groucho and the Marx Brothers which also contains many trailers from their MGM movies ( except for A Day at the Races ) , an " extra " presented as the trailer for Monkey Business ( that's the one where the Four Marx Brothers audition with Maurice Chavalier imitations ) , another trailer for RKO's Room Service , a short film of Groucho and Harpo in a soapbox derby with Jackie Cooper , and a pilot film for the television version of " You Bet Your Life " which is a real-time document of the radio version before editing for later " transcription " on the air . It has some fascinating behind the scenes stuff involving announcer George Fenneman and producer John Guedel . Anyway , the Groucho-Landis segment is worth a look for Marx fans .
Where are Hans and Franz in The Captain and the Kids ' Old Smokey ?	This short mainly concerns the Captain switching the old horse-drawn fire engine with the new gas-powered one . Then Mama calls and says her house is on fire . The Captain rushes over in the new vehicle but gets stuck hanging on his coat at the top of the ladder . The horse who was just on his way to the retirement field hears the call and rushes to rescue them . . . Some amusing touches but mostly uneven with the Captain a really useless character here . And where are Hans and Franz ? Loved the horse and his reactions of sadness when getting fired and excitement when rehired . And the humorous way he and another human character tried to rescue the Captain . So for him I'm giving this at least a 4 .
The brief Cripple Creek Bar-Room Scene is at least worth a look as supposedly the first film western	This was another very brief Edison film that I discovered on the Internet Archive site . Supposedly the first movie western , Cripple Creek Bar-Room Scene has no horses , no guns , and no fistfights . What it does have is the bar setting , three men playing cards , a drunk that's lying around , a barmaid , and another drunkard who comes in , gets a drink , threatens the other tramp to a fight , and then both get thrown out by the barmaid and those three card-playing men . Since this was approximately four years before the first story short The Great Train Robbery , the only interest this would be for anyone are those who have an interest in early cinema . On that note , Cripple Creek Bar-Room scene is at least worth a look .
Felix Dopes It Out was my first not-so-impressive exposure to the famous cat	In Felix Dopes It Out , a man with a red nose gets a cigarette lit on it by the man next to him , has one fly say to the other on his head to stay from that nose , and gets rejected by a pretty woman for marriage because of it as Felix laughs at it all . When the man pulls a gun to his head , however , Felix promises to help him find a cure . So he takes a boat to Boola-Boola where at sea he encounters a shark . The shark jumps above the cat constantly as it seems to want to eat him . Just then , a box of garlic appears next to Felix's boat . Felix eats some which repels the shark leaving Felix sailing alone . Sometime after , the cat gets thrown a great distance to the island where he gets chased by a chef who magically changes his menu from Fish to Cat . Felix eludes him when he reaches the island leader who's sleeping as Felix goes to the safe to get the red nose antidote . As he leaves , a snake comes by but is subdued when the cat gets a flute , puts it on the sleeping man's lips , and it plays some soothing music . Back to where the red-nosed man is , the man reads the note which says , " Cure for the red nose . Keep drinking until it turns blue " This angers him as he chases Felix and we iris out . . . I remember seeing this about 20 years ago on a VHS cassette that had some public domain cartoons . This was the very first Felix short I've ever seen and I have to admit , I wasn't very impressed . Even today , the gags are only slightly amusing and only once or twice does Felix use his tail to detach for something ( in this one , he uses it to plug a hole the shark made in his boat ) . And much of the middle section is weak . Still , worth a look once for anyone curious about the first real cartoon superstar in animated history .
Paradise Lost was a step down for " Bionic Woman " compared to pilot	In this one , we find out Jamie's boyfriend Will died ( perhaps following that shot he got on the shoulder in the pilot episode ) . She then decides to have sex in the public restroom with a guy named Steve ( perhaps named after Steve Austin of " The Six Million Dollar Man " ) . Miguel Ferrer's character walks in at this point and asks her , " Are you in or out ? " Not liking his tone , Jamie says , " I'm out . " ( Didn't she agree to join " on my terms " the previous week ? That scene confused me . ) Jamie then , through super-hearing , finds out about a woman about to commit suicide and manages to save her in perhaps the most cheesy way I've seen on modern television . Obviously , there was some bad editing . She then meets a nice man in a bookstore as she's reading " What Color is Your Parachute ? " He's played by ex - " Grey's Anatomy " star Isaiah Washington . He has a dog with him which , I guess , is supposed to tell us what a nice guy he is ( and perhaps make us forget his homophobic remarks that got him fired from the hit ABC show ) . We later find out he's her handler in Ferrer's agency . The rest of the episode takes place in a town called Paradise where everyone there turns up dead except a teenage girl who was in the bathroom when whatever caused the mass dying occurred . I'll just stop here and mention that the most intriguing scenes concerned the Katee Sackhoff " bad " bionic woman and her love scene with a trainer of Jamie's . Oh , and the little sister of Jamie's can be both a brat and a little lovable . Overall , this episode was a little step down from the pilot I saw last week but the scenes for next weeks episode with Michelle Ryan and Sackhoff look very interesting indeed so I'll tune in next week for that .
This Screen Snapshots Series episode was an interesting curio for Three Stooges fans	Just saw this rare Hollywood newsreel from Columbia Pictures on YouTube . It concerns various movie stars and the horses they own and watch in a derby . Among those are The Three Stooges in comedy inserts and their attempts to get Curly on their horse via a ladder and other uses to amusing results . The version I saw had the Stooges segment colorized . Other stars appearing were Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Taylor , Clark Gable and Carole Lombard , and Bing Crosby . There were many others that wouldn't ring a bell today like ( no relation ) Buck Jones and Allan Jones ( father of " Love Boat " theme singer Jack Jones and co-star of The Marx Brothers in both " A Night at the Opera " and " A Day at the Races " ) . All in all , an interesting curio for fans of old yesteryear celebrities like me .
The Negotiator starts interestingly but goes downhill quickly	Having just seen an , I'm sure , edited ( mainly for profanity ) version of The Negotiator on My Network TV , I don't think this is my definitive review of this movie but I want to comment on it anyway . I liked the interesting set-up of Samuel L . Jackson's way of dealing with hostage situations at the beginning and the way his partner was set-up for murder . But then just as Jackson starts holding up J . T . Walsh for his deceit I was already thinking how overblown the rest of the movie was going to be and I was right . It's at this time that the other lead , Kevin Spacey , shows up as the other negotiator and while it's interesting to see these two intense actors perform together all I could think of was when will this be over . Even the presence of Walsh ( bless his soul ) , John Spencer ( ditto ) , Siobhan Fallon , Paul Giamatti , and Ron Rifkin in support isn't completely enough to make this a very compelling movie when one doesn't feel any real suspense during the whole thing . All that's left is too quick editing and too much action going on all at once that makes it hard to really tell what's going on or why certain things are taking place . Only recommended if you're a fan of the two leads .
Norman Normal is an interesting , if disappointing , unique Warner Bros . cartoon entry	Just watched this extremely rare Warner Bros . cartoon on the Misce-Looney-ous Blog . With a story , voices , and title song sung by Noel Paul Stookey of Peter , Paul , and Mary , the title character of Norman Normal ( voice of Paul Dixon ) is a young ad executive who's told by his boss to get his latest client drunk in order to sign a contract , tries to talk to his father about right and wrong but only gets stories of the Depression from him and gets told to " fit in " , and encounters at a cocktail party a lampshade wearing guy who keeps saying " approval " , another drunk guy who tells a racist joke about Eskimos , and a bartender who says , " You don't want your real personality to show , do you ? " when Norman refuses a drink . Directed by Alex Lovy , this supposed pilot for a possible TV series showed some promise when Norman and his boss are talking and they literally turn into a bully and a shy kid while discussing their client as if the whole thing is something that brings Norman bad memories of his childhood but the subsequent stuff with the father ( who literally floats in the air when discussing his past ) and the cocktail party fell flat with me . Still , this one-shot from the near end of the Warner Bros . cartoon factory in the late ' 60s is worth a look for anyone with a taste for the unique . And dig the rock band that appears in the beginning and end !
Little ol ' Bosko in Bagdad is awash in some stereotypes	I had previously reviewed The Old Mill Pond which , in my mind , caricatured many African-American musicians in a mostly flattering light . In this cartoon , Bosko ( who's here redrawn as a realistic-looking black kid instead of the monkey-looking one from Warner Bros . ) is tempted in a dream by a Louis Armstrong-like giant frog , complete with trumpet , to give him and his many palace co-worker servants a bag of cookies meant for Bosko's grandma . Those servants include caricatures of Stepin Fetchit , Bill " Bojangles " Robinson , and , as Armstrong's cohort here , Fats Waller with his piano . Love the tap-dancing animation between Bojangles and Bosko and much of the singing , but , as with The Old Mill Pond , the Fetchit character is offensive and annoying as is Robinson almost successfully tempting to trade Bosko's cookies with watermelon . Good thing Bosko refused ! And the Armstrong-Waller buffoonery is too close to stereotypical to be funny . Worth a look , however , for what MGM cartoons were like before the arrival of Tom and Jerry and Tex Avery . . .
Animal Cracker Circus is only slightly amusing	I saw a slightly altered version on YouTube when the toddler was singing different words than the ones in " Animal Crackers in My Soup " with different music ( though in the later " Animal Cracker Circus " sequence , an instrumental version of that is playing ) . He refuses to eat his spinach and had fed some of it to the dog before the cracker ringmaster promises a show if he finishes it . He does and the show starts . A highlight is when the cracker lions dance to the tune I just mentioned . One of the lions comes down from the table and chases and bites the dog who feels pain when that happens ! As the dog and toddler go to bed together , that cracker lion is still chasing them as we iris out . . . Pretty good animation with some interesting sequences involving the animal ( and some human ) crackers but there's hardly a plot here and it's slightly amusing with no big payoff . Worth a look for anyone interested in the obscure Columbia cartoons .
That Little Band of Gold is a little blah	While there are some funny scenes at an opera concerning Ford Sterling , with his crude pantomime demonstration of what he thinks of the woman sitting next to him , and Fatty Arbuckle , who is sitting with wife Mabel Normand and her mother in a row of seats across from Sterling and his two women , as well as some after that when Fatty ditches his wife and mother-in-law to join Sterling and his women in a restaurant , this was mostly a blah short for me about Fatty and Mabel's marriage , his cheating and neglecting her , and their eventual reconciliation . The whole thing was a bit too dramatic for a slapstick comedy with Sterling getting most of whatever laughs came . And I can't believe Mabel forgave Fatty so quickly ! Worth a look for silent movie buffs , worth avoiding for everyone else .
Kickapoo Juice was the final entry in Columbia's " Li'l Abner " animated series	Kickapoo Juice is the fifth and final entry in Columbia's attempt to make Al Capp's " Li'l Abner " comic strip into a cartoon shorts series . This one has Abner making a giant statue of his bachelor idols-Hairless Joe and Lonesome Polecat-to the consternation of Daisy Mae and his mother , Mammy Yokum . Yokum tries to fix her son's obsession with them by taking away their large pot of moonshine with the title name and ends up taking some of them herself . Chaos ensures . . . There's some outrageous gags here that were pretty amusing but it all fell apart in the end . While this was originally in Technicolor , the print I saw was in black and white . Animation was good for the ' 40s era but the story wasn't all that . I recommend this mainly for " Li'l Abner " completists and animation fans curious about Columbia's contributions to the genre before they started distributing UPA shorts .
This early Japanese animation is mainly interesting filler about monkey vs . octopus battles	This very brief cartoon from Japan whose title translated means " The Monkey Fleet " and runs little more than a minute has the Asian monkeys battling octopuses as they both go underwater with the simian animals riding in submarines shooting their torpedo bullets at the sea creatures . The battle scenes are pretty fascinating for animation done in the ' 30s but the fact that's all you see in such a very short film makes it filler in my eyes . The script was by Chuzo Aoji , with animation by Manzo Miyashita and music ( the one I heard on YouTube , anyway ) by Joichi Yuasa . Worth a look , anyway , for anyone fascinated by early Japanese animation . Or any animation buff at all .
Groucho briefly shines with Marilyn Monroe in his brothers ' Love Happy	This day being the one Groucho Marx died 30 years ago , 3 days after Elvis , I decided to watch some of his movies that I either have on tape or just checked at the library . Love Happy , I taped 12 years ago from AMC . This movie came 20 years after Groucho and his brothers ' talkie debut in The Cocoanuts . His participation is limited here which is just as well since he doesn't have many funny lines except with the villainous Ilona Massey and , in her brief part , a well-endowed Marilyn Monroe . Says Groucho to her , " Is there anything I can do for you ? ( turns to audience as he see-saws his eyebrows ) What a ridiculous statement ! " The story mainly concerns Harpo , as himself , as he steals plenty of sardine cans as they're being thrown at him unknowingly by Eric Blore . One Blore doesn't throw but has stolen unbeknownst from him by Harpo has some valuable diamonds . There's also a plot about a musical show with dancer Vera-Ellen and singer Marion Hutton ( Betty's sister ) that's for the birds . Best parts of those segments concern Chico's piano playing with violinist Leon Belasco though there's also a sexy Vera-Ellen number that got my temperature rising . Worst parts for me were Chico's wooing of Ms . Massey and Vera-Ellen's constant crying in front of Harpo . Most interesting part was the chase sequence at the end where Harpo rides on lots of billboards in one of the rare instances of product placements of the period . Many of those gags probably came from former animation director Frank Tashlin , a co-writer of the script . While there's one scene with Groucho and Harpo , the one with Chico at the end probably was shot on separate occasions since they don't share that scene together , just a cut to Chico after Grouch calls out to him . So , technically , this isn't really a " Marx Brothers " picture , just Harpo starring with Chico in support and Groucho in an extended cameo . Having not seen The Big Store , I reserve judgment on whether this is the worst movie of their career but Love Happy is certainly one of their lesser ones . P . S . Raymond Burr is one of the henchmen .
Jack Benny fans may want to check out his early short Taxi Tangle	Jack Benny is stuck in traffic in his cab besides a woman in another cab whom he identifies from his black book as Helen Hunt from Palm Springs ( though she claims to have never been there ) . From just a few lines of dialogue , they propose ( with a justice of the peace conveniently found nearby ) , argue about finances , then quickly annul ! Jack says some amusing lines here but the topper comes after the woman leaves her car followed by plenty of her kids ! Also appearing is silent player Tammany Young as Jack's cab driver whose banter with the police traffic officer about his various ailments is not funny here and may be even offensive today . All in all , an interesting curio for any Benny fans that might still be around . . .
Fifth episode of " Back to You " was only slightly amusing	Well , this episode of " Back to You " seemed to go everywhere without hitting any payoff . In a nutshell : A carpool system has developed with Kelly going with Montana and Gary with Marsh who is a rotten driver . Chuck agrees to take Ryan to dinner to prove to Kelly he's not " rude " while Kelly agrees to spend the night with Montana to prove she's not " strict " . Chuck almost ditches dinner with Ryan-even with Ryan falling down drunk on the floor-with a willing woman ( Tia Carrere , in a brief if effective appearance ) . Ryan eventually ends up at Chuck's sharing a cigar . . . Better in the second act than the first , I thought the whole thing seemed a little predictable and only marginally amusing . Montana probably came off best here . Nice to see Ms . Carrere again after seeing her on " Dancing with the Stars " last year . Long loved her since Wayne's World . The weakest part were the Gary-Marsh driving scenes . Will review after a couple of weeks since " Back to You " will be preempted by Fox baseball playoffs during that time .
Mean Mother doesn't always live up to title	After seeing Grindhouse last weekend , I wanted to see something that came from the real grindhouse or drive-in of the ' 70s . A movie with the title Mean Mother looked like something up my alley . It seemed to have started that way with Our Hero Beauregard Jones making a drug deal with his contact that goes sour and has him kicking the bad guys ' butts , but then we meet his white buddy from the Vietnam War and many of his exploits gets the lion's share of the story when they're separated . Too bad , though when it does get back to Jones , there's also his girlfriend Tracy King ( better known as Marilyn Joi ) who's there as eye candy but what eye candy ! She's worth seeing when , after getting tied up , she convinces her white captor to set her free in exchange for some hanky panky with plenty of nudity provided on screen . I should note that Our Hero is played by Clifton Brown a . k . a . Dobie Gray whose best known hit song was " Drift Away " ( " Give me the beat , boys , to free my soul . I wanna get lost in your rock-n-roll and drift away . . . " ) Also Italian redhead Luciana Paluzzi , who is best known as Fiona Volpe in the James Bond film Thunderball , plays the white buddy's doomed girlfriend Therese . Like I said , there's plenty of boring stretches involving the white buddy but by the end it's back to Jones for an action packed ending ( of the low budget kind anyway ) that should make you at least glad you saw this once . . .
I Married Joan : Opera is a slightly amusing episode	Joan gets picked chairman of the entertainment committee . She invites an opera singer to perform for the function . Husband Bradly gets in opera singer's way during rehearsal and gets sent out of own house ! Later Joan defends husband's honor and singer eventually quits before showtime . Joan goes in her place while lip-syncing to her records but messes her performance tripping over props and costumes . After it's all over , husband doesn't want to see another singer but after he leaves Bing Crosby introduces himself to Joan as a new neighbor but denies being THAT guy ! Once again , you have a silly plot that's occasionally made palatable by Joan Davis and Jim Backus as her husband . Best scenes are the rehearsal with the opera singer and Joan though the actual performance Joan does solo on stage works only slightly well comically . If you're a fan of Davis , you might be a little amused . Otherwise , skip this episode .
Bangville Police is supposedly the first Keystone Kops short with Mabel Normand providing the charms . . .	Bangville Police supposedly marked the debut of the Keystone Kops , named after the studio they worked for . In this one , however , they don't dress in the silly cop costumes or drive the fast-paced car that's their trademark . Anyway , Mabel Normand is a farm girl here who's begged her dad for a calf . She later sees some strange men in the barn and quickly calls the police . One answers and the chase is on . Next , Mabel slams her door just as someone is coming in . Turns out it's her mother who jumps to the conclusion robbers are in there ! So while Mabel blocks her door with furniture , the mother and father try to fight their way in ! This was perhaps the most amusing part of the short along with some explosions of the cop car . This was a short 7 minutes that went by so fast it's over before it's begun . The only real characterization that's developed is Mabel's who exudes charm with just her face and big eyes and seems so optimistically cheery here except , of course , when she's frightened . It's easy to see why she became a star . It's largely because of her that I'd recommended seeing this at least once and why I'm giving this a 4 .
Despite stereotypes , Rufus Jones for President is worthy for Waters and a very young Davis	Well , if it weren't for Ethel Waters and a 7-year-old Sammy Davis , Jr . ( here billed without the Jr . ) , Rufus Jones for President would be one of the worst representations of African-American stereotypes I've seen from the early talkie era and wouldn't have been worth seeing because of that . Ms . Waters is excellent here singing " Am I Blue ? " and " Underneath Our Harlem Moon " while Mr . Davis shows us how his childhood experience in showbiz prepared him for his superstar status as an adult . He's so good tap-dancing here that for awhile I thought he was a little person with decades of experience . So if you're willing to ignore the negative connotations here , Rufus Jones for President should provide some good enjoyment . P . S . This marks the fourth time today I've seen and heard the song , " I'll Be Glad When You're Dead You Rascal You " performed on film , this time by Davis . Must have been a very popular song about this time .
This Gamera vs . Barugon comment is about the KTMA version on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 "	All right , since there's no " MST3K " entry listed on IMDb for Gamera vs . Barugon in the first season section , I'll review this rare KTMA episode that's available on YouTube here . After the theme song , Joel just fields a recorded call that complements his show and describes the movie before hitting " movie sign " as we go to the picture . It's basically about a giant turtle with flames on his feet defeating this monster with a straight long tongue who can fire snow mist off his mouth . There's also a Japanesse guy with a brother and another friend who's searching for treasure and a native woman who knows about Barugon by legend . The in-between segments has Joel fielding more recorded calls , one of which complains about the constant talking by Joel and his ' bots , Tom Servo and Crow . Crow deservedly calls that guy on it . This being an early episode , there's not too much talking at the screen for the first hour so anyone watching this may be a little disappointed as I initially was . What talking there is has some good zingers about Bob Hope , MASH , Don Ho , Chuck Norris , and others I can't remember . The movie itself threatens to be sleep inducing with confusing cuts throughout . Gamera vs . Barugon was later re-shown on the Comedy Central version of " MST3K " in the fourth season . I hope to review that from YouTube soon . Until next time . . . P . S . The show's production company was originally called Hair Brain before settling on Best Brains . And Tom Servo ( as originally voiced by Josh Weinstein ) initially sounded here like a mix between Kermit the Frog and Marvin Martian !
Rodeo Dough is an early Mintz Krazy Kat for Columbia	This was a Krazy Kat cartoon made for Charles Mintz and distributed by Columbia . While the studio originally based the character on the comic strip created by George Herriman , by 1931 he was changed in design and personality to be more like Walt Disney's popular Mickey Mouse ( whose cartoons , ironically , were also distributed by Columbia at the time ) . So in this one , Krazy and his Minnie-like girlfriend are riding on a horse kissing as they come upon a sign that advertises for a rodeo contest . Krazy reluctantly enters to impress Minnie , uh , his girlfriend . While you see some rough stuff involving a previous contestant , when Krazy enters he starts dancing and so do some of the horses and bulls that are suppose to be rough on our hero . So , unless you like animation set to prepared music , this might not be a very exciting cartoon . Still worth a look for anyone interested in vintage early talkie animation .
Krazy Kat and Ignatz Mouse at the Circus doesn't really live up to title	Once again , I'm in agreement with the previous reviewer so I'm not sure what I can add except to say while this short is primitive , it does have some charm to me . I liked seeing a close-up of the cat's tail from behind with the mouse looking up as the tail swings back and forth as well as spin around once in awhile . This is also one of the few cartoons I know of in which a DOG wants to eat a mouse while the CAT is not only friends with the little rodent , in this case he ( or she ) is in love with him . It's too bad , though , that the short doesn't live up to the title since while we see the leading characters GO to the circus , we don't see anything HAPPEN at the circus . Still , it's worth a look for animation buffs once .
The Old House contains stereotypes but also some good animation and humor	While this short mainly depicts two black kids screaming and running for their life in a haunted house-thereby reaffirming the " blacks scared of spook " stereotype-there are some good animation and nice humorous touches that redeems this short , The Old House , somewhat . This is the MGM Bosko and not the Warner Bros . one that looked like a little monkey ( that remark may offend some people but it's true ) . Both though were created by Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising so there was no copyright infringement involved . If what I just described doesn't appeal to you , by all means avoid . To anyone else interested in MGM animation pre-Tom and Jerry and Tex Avery , it's worth seeing at least once .
While Uncle Tom's Bungalow provides some moments , it's too politically incorrect for today	This cartoon short , Uncle Tom's Bungalow , is the fourth ( chronologically ) of the " Censored 11 " Warner Bros . films that doesn't show on commercial TV anymore . Directed by Tex Avery , this cartoon gets some points for the beginning frames bouncing up and down to the music score , some nice visual touches with an ice machine making various ice floes , the title character appearing with a limousine , and same character telling Simon Legree : " My body may belong to you , but my soul belongs to Warner Bros . ! " Otherwise , there's not much funny here and there's a bit more racist stuff then there were in the earlier ones I reviewed ( though I was highly amused when the two little girls , Topsy and Eva , switched colors when showing fright to Legree ) . Worth a look for fans of animation especially of Tex Avery . Everyone else should just avoid .
Roger Corman's low-budget Fantastic Four is at least worth a look once	When I saw the 2005 Fantastic Four , I remember liking almost everything in it . The only real disappointment to me was the too-short battle with Dr . Doom . Now after just seeing two World War II Superman cartoons and a year ending episode of Heroes , I'm watching on YouTube the first , unreleased , Roger Corman-produced version of The Fantastic Four from 1994 . Since Corman is indeed responsible for this version , I expected the low budget to show in the special effects and various costumes and sets . In fact , both the Thing and Dr . Doom look nothing more than people dressed in Halloween costumes . I did like the origin story as presented here as well as the beginning scenes before that culminating in Mrs . Storm , right before the rocket launch , saying as the four leave , " Look , what a fantastic four . " And some campy lines did brighten things up , my favorite being Johnny's exclamation after Reed figures what their powers represent : " Holy Freud Batman , Reed ! " But after a while the fight scenes became tedious and the dialogue bordered on the ridiculous . I give kudos , however , to Alex Hyde-White ( Reed Richards ) , Jay Underwood ( Johnny Storm ) , Rebecca Staab ( Sue Storm ) , Michael Bailey Smith ( Ben Grimm ) , and Joseph Culp ( Victor von Doom ) for trying to make their characters as believable as possible . Oh , and I also liked the computer-animated Human Torch scene when he was outrunning a laser beam near the end . And I couldn't believe it when Reed was referring to Doom as " your old friend " to Ben since there was no evidence of that at all ! So overall , a good beginning hour before it almost falls completely apart at the end . Worth seeing at least once for FF fans . Look for George Gaynes ( Tootsie , Police Academy series ) as the professor in the beginning as well as Buffy / Angel's Mercedes McNab as a young teen Sue Storm .
The House Bunny is a pleasant enough movie for anyone not looking for anything that makes you think too much . . .	Well , I've now seen The House Bunny and all I've got to say is it's what I expected judging from the previews and reviews and that means that it was pleasant and uneven and shallow and perhaps a little smart but it was enjoyable so that's a mostly good thing . The girls are good eye candy but they can act and Anna Faris is especially a remarkable comic presence . I really like when she mentions everyone's names with that deep croaking voice . As her second banana , Emma Stone is also pretty good with what she's given here and Kat Dennings , who I loved in Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist , isn't bad here either . Colin Hanks , Tom's son , has a sweet presence too but the real surprise was seeing Beverly D'Angelo and Christopher McDonald in their roles especially McDonald since I usually think of his not-so-sympathetic role in Thelma and Louise when I think of him . Well , I think I've said too much so I'll just say The House Bunny is an okay comedy that should make the 90 or so minutes go down easy to anyone not looking for the next Oscar bait movie . . .
Dancing on the Moon was an interesting Max Fleischer Color Classic	Just watched this Max Fleischer Color Classics cartoon on the Classic Cartoons blog . Like many of Fleischer's Technicolor cartoons of this era , this one has backgrounds of models done on a tabletop that achieves that 3-D effect of an animated character appearing in live-action . Here , those backgrounds are of moon craters . Various newlywed animal couples are singing the title song as well as , well , dancing on the moon ( obviously , this was way before the historic moon landing of 1969 since everyone here is breathing healthy in space ) . Actually , a feline groom is missing his bride since she narrowly missed her ride . That's all I'll say except that while the musical number is pretty entertaining and there are some amusing gags , the final punchline isn't funny and in fact may be a bit too cruel for the young ' uns . If you're a Fleischer completist , however , I do recommend Dancing on the Moon for one look .
Buddy's Lost World was an okay cartoon starring the forgotten Buddy	In this Leon Schlesinger / Looney Tunes cartoon short , Buddy and his dog Bozo are sailing to the Lost World , you know , that world inhabited by cavemen and dinosaurs as first depicted by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in his novel of the same name . The animation is good and the cartoon moves at a brisk pace though after a while , nothing makes real sense and Buddy's bland personality isn't enough for this animated short's charm . Still , if you're a Warner Bros . cartoon completist , Buddy's Lost World is worth seeing at least once . By the way , the studio would go back to prehistoric times when Chuck Jones made Daffy Duck and the Dinosaur , which featured a caricatured Jack Benny , some four years later .
Duke Ellington and Fredi Washington make Black and Tan an interesting curio	Having just seen Bessie Smith's only film appearance in the short St . Louis Blues , I'm startled by some of the same people from that one involved here as well : director Dudley Murphy , Alec Lovejoy in a bit part ( as one of the piano movers ) , and the Hall Johnson Choir . Also appearing is Fredi Washington , sister of Isabel Washington who also appeared in the aforementioned short . Fredi is the dancer girlfriend of pianist Duke Ellington whose film debut this is . Anyway , at the club where she's the dancing star with the Ellington Orchestra , she does some energetic dance steps before collapsing . Later , on her deathbed , she requests " Black and Tan Fantasy " as the Duke plays her request with her demise at the music ending proper as the screen blurs her point-of-view and fades to dark . Besides the good music , there's also some multiple-exposure shots and cuts under the glass floor and reflections of the close dance-stepping men on it that makes this a pretty fascinating curio of the early talkie era . I found Black and Tan-retitled Black and Tan Fantasy-on the Kino Video DVD " Hollywood Rhythm , Vol . 1 : The Best of Jazz & Blues .
The Algebra Problem is interesting , if repetitive , episode of Meet Corliss Archer	Corliss asks her dad to figure out an algebra problem . He manages to get his wife into it . When Dexter comes and finds Corliss doing her homework , he tries to help her . Dexter's father comes and tries to help Mr . Archer to solve the algebra problem . Corliss's mother then goes to Dexter's mother's house and they count various household items in order to solve the math problem ! Finally , Corliss's dad goes to work and asks the C . P . A . there to figure out the problem but even he can't figure it out by the end of the day ! As Corliss and Dexter are on the back porch relaxing , their parents are still discussing the problem . . . Pretty amusing episode although it gets a little monotonous with the repetition . Some amusing visual gags in the cartoon bumpers and live-action sequences especially one I like involving a kitchen appliance that holds butter suddenly turning into a toy police car in front of Mr . Archer's eyes ! Worth seeing at least once for anyone interested in sitcoms from the ' 50s .
I might have seen a shortened version of Patriotic Popeye	I saw this pretty amusing Popeye cartoon after Vengeance Valley , the Burt Lancaster western that aired on Family Theater on FamilyNet . Since a commercial was inserted in the middle of this cartoon , I don't know if I saw the whole thing since Popeye didn't have too much trouble handling his two nephews as they try to light fireworks for the 4th of July . Loved the scene of Popeye bumping into the bull while playing baseball with his nephews and then getting bumped back by him as the nephews try to unlock the shed that has the fireworks ! Like I said , pretty amusing but that commercial interruption and possible limited time after the movie may have made it a shortened cartoon when I saw it . So with that in mind , I'm giving Patriotic Popeye a 5 .
Six Figures Getting Sick is pure David Lynch territory	I just saw Six Figures Getting Sick-David Lynch's first foray into film-on YouTube when I typed David Lynch . The title is basically the short's description as repetitiously we see six heads vomiting red into their hearts while the word " sick " flashes on the screen . Then a different image of the same thing happens and all this is repeated a total of six times to a constant wailing siren . Interesting at first , it all does get a little . . . " repetitious " . Still , if you're used to the weirdness that comes with the territory of David Lynch , you should feel right at home at this experimental short of the director's early years . Everyone else , you've been warned .
High School Musical was just an average episode of " Miss Guided "	Student Lauren ( Gina DeVivo ) tells Becky she's tired of " one-line " parts which reminds Becky of her high school days when she only played maids in musicals even when they didn't call for one like in " Jesus Chirst Superstar " . With the regular drama teacher out , Becky gets Principal Huffy to hire her to direct " Miss Saigon " . Meanwhile , Bruce fires his ad staff for not getting enough space in the papers for the play and gets Lisa to do the job . His ulterior motive , however , is to try to get as close as possible to her . Becky's first task on the play is to pick Lauren for the lead even though she can't sing and there's someone better . Obviously , Becky's trying to compensate for her days of being cast in demeaning parts . Furthermore , the budget goes over because of her perfectionist skill demands on sets which Tim is in charge of . This eventually puts a kibosh on a potential dinner date for them . Also , Lauren gets so insecure before showtime she quits meaning Becky now takes the lead even though the leading character is 19 years old ! This almost crosses legal territory when the teen playing the soldier tries to kiss Becky ! During the performance , Lisa , having come from a bad dinner date with her about-to-be-ex-husband , arrives drunk which Bruce tries to take advantage of . While they kiss in his office , Lisa then falls asleep so Bruce leaves her there . She wakes the next morning with Bruce wanting to talk about it but she tells him flat out they'll never be together . That doesn't faze Bruce . Principal Huffy gets a verbal agreement from Becky to not direct another play and , after Lauren apologizes to her for what she did , Becky , reading the bad review from the paper tells her that they both accomplished their dreams and found out they're not worth pursuing ! While there were some funny scenes like Becky's performance in " Miss Saigon " and Bruce's asides on his intentions of Lisa , there weren't enough to really make me really laugh out loud and I felt bad for the good singer ( who was also Asian ) who didn't get the lead and wished that Lauren had tried to go on during opening night . I also hope this is the last time Bruce tries to seduce Lisa since it wasn't that funny . So this was just an average episode of " Miss Guided " .
The Frog Pond is an entertaining if partly bland cartoon	In Ub Iwerks ' The Frog Pond , many frogs are singing and having a good time until a big bully frog takes some food and basically orders a house built on his lily pond . They oblige with the most glamorous house anyone ever had with good food service ( like grasshopper and some flies ) . Then this bully invites everyone for his party . During this party with all the dancing frog ladies he can have , the bully frog takes another frog's woman while drunk . But this particular frog has his own plans for revenge when he mixes a drink for him that has rat poison in it . So when the bully frog drinks it , he feels a jackass kick him in the stomach several times . As he faints , the other frogs paint some stripes on him as they lock him in jail in his house and send him to a fall which takes him to prison where a human ( ? ) guard gives him a pick which he pounds on rocks that spell in little pieces , " Crime Does Not Pay " . . . Pretty entertaining if a little bland . I liked many of the musical numbers and that jackass scene in the bully's stomach . Worth a look for any Ub Iwerks and Columbia cartoon fans .
Pedagogical Institution should provide some amusements in this Max Fleischer cartoon	This was one in a series of Stone Age Cartoons from Max Fleischer . A young man is trying to get a job but he has to go to college first which isn't easy since during registration , the big thermometer goes all the way down from Genius to Kluck with the line , " Add Oil " ! During class , this student gets all the math problems wrong and blurts out various names when the professor asks , " Now , what was Eve's name ? " Then the teacher draws one rabbit plus another and asks how many that is . I'll just say you'll really be surprised by this one ! Animation was very good and if you're amused by what I just described , then Pedagogical Institution ( College to You ) should by up your alley .
Mabel's Strange Predicament should satisfy some fans of early Chaplin	Mabel's Strange Predicament is the second film in which Charlie Chaplin dresses in costume as The Little Tramp ( the first being Kid Auto Races in Venice ) . In here , he's just a drunk who's infatuated with the title character played by Ms . Normand . She's a lady who has a dog that she takes with her to the hotel room where , after dressing in her pajamas , gets locked out of with dog still inside . After Charlie chases her upstairs , she goes to another room where an elderly man lives and hides under his bed . Also mixed up in this are her suitor and the elderly man's wife . Most of the highlights are from Mabel's under-bed hiding and the slapstick that ensues when she's found out as well as some of Chaplin's falls from either being hit or just simply staggering . Should be amusing enough for fans of early silent comedy and the two stars especially very curious Chaplin enthusiasts .
Krazy Kat Goes A-Wooing has a kind of primitive charm	Since the previous reviewer summed up what happens in this 2-minute cartoon , I'll just mention that Krazy also has some kind of flying contraption which he uses to fly to where he mistakenly thinks is Ignatz ' house and he takes a guitar where you see visual notes whenever he plays some music . And in many of the word balloons , many of the words end with " ink " like " darlink " . Since Zsa Zsa Gabor speaks like that , I half wonder if she learned English after moving from Hungary with her sisters by seeing films like this ! Nothing much more to say except this film has a primitive charm that could interest animation history buffs . If you are interested in seeing this , it's easily available on YouTube ( at least it was when I found it there ) .
Window Washers is another silent Farmer Al Falfa cartoon from Paul Terry	This is another Paul Terry silent cartoon . A cat and mouse are riding in a car that keeps slipping off its wheels so the mouse positions the car parallel to the wheels as they keep moving . A policeman dog gives chase after spying on them through a birdhouse which he climbed , spider-like , through . Cut to a separate scene with Farmer Al Falfa painting his tires before leaving . A human policeman chases him but when the cop catches up , the car eats him spitting his out uniform and beat stick ! As the farmer arrives at his home , the cat and mouse-who had managed to elude the police dog-come up , sees the window washer ad , and get to work with the cat using the mouse as a sponge ! There's also a fish who washes inside and outside his bowl and another mouse who cleans the farmer's glasses . It all ends with the mice chasing Al and the cat outside . . . Besides some of what I described in the synopsis , there's a few more amusing sight gags like when the car arrives at a river , the wheels go underwater while the body of the car becomes a boat with the cat and mouse rowing ! Also , the cat and mouse's car gets a flat so the mouse gets the pump and pushes the air through the tire while the car is still moving ! Not much logic here and the animation was pretty primitive but if your an animation fan who's curious about these early silent Terrytoons , this and many others that are on YouTube are worth a look .
Molly Moo-Cow and the Indians is palatable but ordinary	Since the summary tells the whole story , I'll just mention some gags . When the Indian hunter takes the ducks away , the ducks each take an arrow from his backpack which forms a trail . As Molly is grabbing the hunter , she kicks him in the head with her hind legs ! And as the hunter escapes on a rowboat from the woman Indian throwing vases , the rowboat is still tied to a rope but the rope doesn't pull the boat back . Instead , it takes the boat's outer skin out leaving only the inside wood skeleton ! A bit more palatable than some other Molly Moo-Cow cartoons I've seen it is still a bit ordinary . Worth a look if you're interested in seeing every Van Beuren cartoon ever made .
Porter's Dreams of a Rarebit Fiend is interesting take on McCay comic	I saw two versions of this live-action version of Winsor McCay's comic strip Dreams of a Rarebit Fiend . The Google Video version had music suitable for the era and film . The YouTube version ( which Google now links to as well ) used Carl Stalling's music for Warner Bros . cartoon shorts along with Treg Brown's sound effects that seemed WAY unsuitable . Director Edwin S . Porter gives wonderful visual touches throughout from the whirling lamppost sequence to depict drunkenness to the bed jumping up and down while the drunk tries to sleep to his dreams of three devils picking at his head to him hanging on a swinging weather vane . Two bad the print of both versions were downright poor with washed out frames nearly constantly . Recommended mainly for film enthusiasts .
Meet Corliss Archer : Janet Goes to College is fitfully amusing	Corliss reads about an 84-year-old woman who just graduated college . She suggests to her mom Janet about attending herself . Janet's husband Harry also thinks it may be a good idea since she has " only two hours of housework " a day . That infuriates Janet so she and Mary , Corliss ' boyfriend Dexter's mother , decides to teach their husbands a lesson about how hard household chores really are by attending school . At dinner , with the wives at classes , Harry's first cooked meal turns out to be not-so-appetizing to Corliss , Dexter , and his father . The men are ready to plead to their wives to come back home when they overhear the women about why they are in school and pledge to wait until their wives back down . Corliss and Dexter help out with a long list their fathers wrote and end up exhausted . Eventually , everyone ends up tired , even the wives with all their classes . A truce is called with Janet and Mary agreeing to quit school only if their husbands kneel before them . This was a battle-of-the-sexes type episode so typical of the ' 50s sitcoms . There are many amusing sight gags and witty lines so it is fitfully entertaining but if the whole premise strikes you as too old-fashioned then you're better off watching something else .
At World's End was a pretty enjoyable POTC film despite having missed the first two	Having just seen Knocked Up and Waitress in another theatre earlier in the day , a friend called me up about 15 minutes later at home and proposed seeing one with him . We went back and forth over some titles when he reluctantly picked Knocked Up ( he thought I was at work earlier and I didn't tell him I watched some movies and one of his choices , Delta Farce , was in another theatre that wasn't near him ) . When we arrived at his neighborhood cinema , however , I asked if he enjoyed Pirates of the Caribbean : At World's End the night before with his nephew . He said he did and asked if I was willing to switch to that . I did since I didn't want to see KU again so soon . Now , having not seen the previous two installments and having fallen asleep during some of the movie , I was a little confused at what was going on but by the fight scenes in the final 15 or so minutes , I was genuinely thrilled by many of the action set pieces . As the new pirate king , Keira Knightly delivered a very rousing speech to her new crew . Orlando Bloom certainly proved very sexy and romantic next to her . Seeing multiple Johnny Depps and having a dialogue with his father ( and his character's inspiration ) Keith Richards provided some of the movie's many amusing moments . I may now have to see the first two POTC films and this one again to really understand what was going on but I must say , I still didn't have a bad time watching this one .
27 Dresses was a pleasant enough viewing for Valentine's Day	I have to confess , I wasn't intending to go see a movie on Valentine's Day since " Lost " and " Survivor " were on TV tonight and I only picked 27 Dresses because the other movies on the list for the theatre we were attending were either ones I wasn't interested in or they only had one showing in the afternoon . The movie itself was a little funny and sometimes hilarious so it was a mostly pleasant experience though I did perk up a little bit when leads Katherine Heigl and James Marsden did a karaoke to Elton John's " Benny and the Jets " . Comic actress Judy Greer did have some really funny lines as Heigl's sidekick though not enough to kick things into high gear . Even so , me and my friend had a pretty good time watching 27 Dresses .
The Marine is action packed but also cartoonishly dumb	I have a friend who's a fan of the WWE so it's because of him that I agreed to see The Marine . The only actor I noticed was Robert Patrick from Terminator 2 and I liked the line that referenced that movie . There was also a black character that seemed to have wandered from Tarantino territory with references to how he doesn't like rock candy and his experiences with ' Johnny Whiplash ' from summer camp that amused me a little . As an action hero , John Cena did pretty well with himself in the various fighting stunts he no doubt trained for in his WWE career . Having said all that , I found the movie ridiculous almost from the beginning what with all the car explosions and gun fighting that only the Cena hero survives intact again and again . The movie gets a little more tolerable as it goes on but it didn't make me say , " Wow , this was a great action flick ! " Instead I was simply glad it was over . My friend , on the other hand , loved it . So watch if you love the WWE and John Cena , but don't expect an intelligent thriller .
You have to be in the right mood to enjoy The Lake House	I just saw The Lake House with my mother and father . My dad left early on believing the movie was lousy . My mom and I stayed and while I understood most of what was going on , Mom kept getting confused until nearly the end . I think the ending was a little confusing for both Mom and me and it wasn't until I read many of the Q and A blogs that I understood both the timelines and why things happened at certain times . Both Sandra Bullock and Keanu Reeves are wonderful in their leading roles and Christopher Plummer and Shohreh Aghdashloo are equally good in their supporting ones . If you don't think too much about the logic of sequences , you may get carried away by the romance of the movie with the beautiful Chicago scenery . Me , I'm still wondering how it ended the way it did . . .
The Running Jumping & Standing Still Film was an interesting early work of director Richard Lester	Just watched this early Richard Lester short starring Peter Sellers on YouTube . It's basically a silent one with a music score and speeded-up images done for humorous effect . Sellers is both a photographer and a hunter here . I also noticed Graham Stark-who I've seen in the Pink Panther movies with Sellers-in this film . There were a few comic touches-like that man using a horn with a needle running around a tree stump as that needle touches a record on the stump or duel of two men with one carrying a sword and the other carrying a gun with another guy with a horn in his ear in between them-that I thought was highly amusing while others-like a woman " washing " on the grass-was a little lame . Still , since The Beatles hired Lester to helm A Hard Days Night because of this short , I'd at least recommend The Running Jumping & Standing Still Film for historical purposes .
Scuba Duba Do is a slight improvement over a previous Ralph Bakshi Sad Cat cartoon	As the second Sad Cat cartoon directed by Ralph Bakshi that I've seen on YouTube , Scuba Duba Do is a slight improvement on Gadmouse the Apprentice Good Fairy . The cat's been assigned by brothers Fenimore and Latimore to clean the chimney . There , Sad finds a treasure map . When his brothers find out , they make their brother vote to make one of them the leader for the search . Sad closes the curtain and picks . When he is asked who he voted for , Sad says , " Can't tell you . It's a secret ballot . " After his brothers leave , Gadmouse appears and gives the remaining cat some magic wings to help him quickly find the treasure . It turns out to be guarded by a sea monster who scares Latimore and Fenimore into giving up their search . After they leave , Sad comes by and also is asked by the sea monster if he's seeking the treasure . Sad says yes . The monster then turns into a game show host who offers him various prizes including a luxury ship ! When his brothers come back and open the treasure chest , all that's in it are a sandwich and a cup of coffee . As Sad Cat leaves on his cruise , his brothers are left bickering . . . This one has a little more life in it than the previous short I just mentioned at the beginning of this comment with the leading cat singing at the start and various amusing touches I mentioned in the synopsis . Interesting for anyone who's a Ralph Bakshi completist .
The Seapreme Court was a slightly amusing Little Audrey cartoon short	This being a Famous Studios ( though the version I saw had the Harvey Films logo which means this particular print had been struck after Paramount sold many of their pre-1960 films and characters to that comic book company ) cartoon short starring Little Audrey , The Seapreme Court is another in the let's - teach - this - girl - and - the - kiddie - audience - watching - a - lesson this time being a be-kind-to-all-animals one concerning fish . There are some amusing literal gags like the widow fish whose husband was " canned " or Audrey being sent to the " eelectric " chair and the animation and score was top-notch as usual but this isn't laugh-out-loud material , at least compared to M-G-M or Warner Bros . shorts . Still , if you love animation from a time when cinemas showed them before the main feature , this might prove of some interest to you .
Winter Carousel is last animated short of Ladislaw Starewicz	Winter Carousel is the last short by the pioneering stop-motion puppet animator Ladislaw Starewicz . It mainly concerns a group of forest animals cavorting in the snow , skating , riding on tree branches , and sledding . While you may get some amusing touches here and there , this short does seem a little on the bland side . And since there is no real story to pay attention to , most kids will probably get bored . I found this on a DVD called The Cameraman's Revenge and Other Fantastic Tales . Among other Starewicz shorts in this collection : The Cameraman's Revenge ( 1912 ) , The Insects ' Christmas ( 1913 ) , The Frogs Who Wanted a King or Frogland ( 1922 ) , The Voice of the Nightingale ( 1923 ) , and The Mascot ( 1933 ) . All are worth seeing , so if you're an animation fan who's curious about this forgotten animator , by all means seek them all out !
Night of Bloody Horror was an okay regional suspense movie I watched on YouTube	This was another of those cheap low-budget horror movies I remember seeing in newspaper ads or television commercials on late night as a child in the ' 70s and wondering what they would be like . The version I watched on YouTube was a little faded and washed out but I saw clearly enough to understand what was going on and enjoy a little . I say a little since with the running time being about ninety minutes , there's not enough time to give too deep characterizations as to motive for the various murders that happen here . As the lead suspect , a young Gerald McRaney is pretty adequate in one of his earliest roles ( though he must have considered himself the luckiest man with the women he kissed here ) . There's also a nightclub scene with a local rock band called The Bored that has a few sixties moments like having some frames printed in negative form with some painted colors added . ( and can you dig the cyclone-like special effects that depicts McRaney's " migranes " ? ) Despite the tagline being " Keep telling yourself , It's only a picture , only a picture . . . " , I don't think the few gore scenes were all that scary , in fact , they looked a bit fake . So on that note , Night of Bloddy Horror is no great shakes though it's not completely boring either . P . S . The theatre that was playing this movie in the late ' 70s ( and perhaps the late ' 60s as well when this was first released ) was the now-defunct Joy's Robert E . Lee one which had four screens during a time when most cinemas in our area had just two . The movie house I just mentioned was perhaps one of 200 owned by one Joy N . Houck , Sr . whose son , Joy Jr . , was this film's director . By the way , my neighboring city New Orleans ( where Joy Jr . was born ) was the location used for filming .
Admiral Cigarette is another fascinating document of early motion picture history	Once again , the Internet Archive site has some of the most historically fascinating pieces of film that dates back to the beginning of motion pictures themselves ! The title is also the name of the product that's blatantly advertised on both a billboard that's the background of four men sitting on a bench having a conversation and on a giant cigarette pack that's standing to the left of them . Suddenly , someone emerges out of that pack and offers all of those men some of the product . Then , those four men unfurl a sign that says , " We All Smoke " . The end . This early commercial ( in fact , probably the earliest ) was actually a moving billboard that was displayed on top of one of the New York buildings . It caused such a commotion that projectionist Edwin S . Porter was later arrested for causing a " disturbance " in traffic . Ironically , Thomas Edison would later be a rabid anti-smoker who would not hire anyone that partakes in the substance . Maybe he realized how unhealthy smoking really was . Admiral Cigarette is a fascinating document of early motion picture advertising that's worth a look for anyone seeking such rarities .
This edition of " Shindig ! " with guest co-host Boris Karloff was a fascinating find from YouTube	Coutesy of the Classic Television Showbiz site , I discovered this rare " Shindig ! " entry from the YouTube one . It's the Halloween edition from 1965 with Boris Karloff as the guest co-host to regular host Jimmy O'Neill with special guest star Ted Cassidy who appears as both himself and as his " Addams Family " character , Lurch . The show begins with O'Neill singing two Beatles songs : " Help ! " and another one whose title escapes me ( fascinating note : later Fab Four collaborator Billy Preston was a musician here ) . Then we see Boris at a table with a crystal ball doing some banter with the host before disappearing , courtesy of a trick cut . After a commercial for Streidex , Boris then does his version of " The Peppermint Twist " in a speaking fashion with the camera literally panning up and down when he goes to those words . Then there are the regular singers warbling the hits of the week , none of which I recognized except for the " Memphis , Tennesse " number . Oh , and Mr . Preston sings a little during this . I should mention that somewhere here Mr . Karloff was supposed to have performed his own version of Borris Pickett's " Monster Mash " and while that particular segment may have been lost to the ether , an audio version was found on YouTube by someone else and was later recreated with existing video footage and scenes of Universal monster movies , Frankenstein among them . Also , Ted Cassidy as Lurch performing " The Lurch " with the female dancers was also lost though there are his performances with such-like dancers from other shows on the site ( with Terri Garr among them ) . Then , after the Almond Joy spot , Boris makes both O'Neill and Cassidy as himself disappear ( again , courtesy of a trick cut ) before plugging the following weeks ' lineup . Then , O'Neill and Cassidy say their own goodnights before dancing with the other cast as the credits roll . . . The version I saw was on kinescope with washed-out visuals almost throughout . So that was a mar on some of my enjoyment though also some of the performances weren't all that . I did get a kick out of Mr . Karloff's " Pepperment Twist " number , though , as he just sat there while those dancers were gyrating around him ! Also , the Billy Preston number was off-sync here . Still , this was a fascinating chronicle of a dance-music show from a part of a decade before I was born .
Bessie Smith is the whole show in St . Louis Blues	In continuing to review the film accomplishments of African-Americans on film in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now at the start of the talkies . St . Louis Blues is the only film appearance of the legendary singer Bessie Smith . As an excuse to warble the classic W . C . Handy-composed song that's the title of this short , Ms . Smith gets two-timed and then rejected by Jimmy Mordecai . The other woman is the light-skinned Isabel Washington , sister of Fredi Washington who's in the next short I'm reviewing , Black and Tan . Anyway , when she sings , Bessie is in a class by herself though I wish the recording on the soundtrack ( which was presumably live ) had sounded sharper . Mordecai later returns for some tap-dancing before coming back to Ms . Smith only to reject her again when he gets her money from her leg garter . Then she reprises before " The End " flashes on the screen . This interesting curio also had the Hall Johnson Choir doing the chorus with James P . Johnson playing the piano . One more interesting fact : The distributor was Sack Amusement Enterprises which later handled later race movies like Spencer Williams ' The Blood of Jesus and Go Down Death .
300 was a mildly interesting epic to me	In the interest of full disclosure , I must admit I fell asleep during some of the battle scenes ( or maybe during the preparation of said scenes ) . I did stay alert when the son of one of the soldiers was killed . The scenes I really loved , however , were the ones with the mother queen , Lena Headey , especially when a political rival of her husband's made a deal with her for his support of her views during the next day's council meeting in exchange for his sexually violating her . You'll have to see the movie to watch the twist ending . Since the film was almost over by then , I was only mildly entertained but if you love historical , or maybe legendary would be the better description here , epics , 300 may be what you're looking for .
Viva Buddy provides some amusements of the usually bland leading character	This is another Leon Schlesinger / Looney Tunes cartoon from the ' 30s that starred perhaps the blandest character that Warner Bros . ever had in their roster : Buddy . Here , he's in , I guess , Mexico playing a Latin American-flavored tune while we encounter many , I'm thinking , stereotypes of the era including a Wallace Beery-inspired Pancho Villa character . Cookie's there too , dancing as a senorita who gets both Pancho's and Buddy's attention . Filled with plenty of violent gags , Viva Buddy moves along briskly and is a little entertaining but it also seems a little rushed and the way it ends is a little bit of a cop-out . Still , I'd recommend this to any Warner cartoon completist out there and you gotta dig the caricatures of The Four Marx Brothers ( including one of them actually pronouncing himself as " chee-co " instead of the usual " chick-co " ! ) in the middle of all this . . .
Laughing Sinners is interesting as first teaming of Crawford and Gable	Laughing Sinners marks the first time Clark Gable appeared in a movie starring Joan Crawford . Crawford is the only name above the title and Gable is listed third in the cast list after Neil Hamilton ( who would be better known as Commissioner Gordon in the " Batman " TV series ) . Crawford is a singer / dancer who falls for the traveling salesman Hamilton . He abandons her while she sings a love song for him . Gable plays a Salvation Army man who saves Joan from jumping off a bridge and convinces her to join . While she performs on a street corner , Hamilton sees Crawford and convinces her to stay in his hotel room . I'll stop right there and mention who else is in this movie : Guy Kibbee , Roscoe Karns , Cliff Edwards before he became the voice of Jiminy Cricket in Pinocchio , and , in a nice picnic scene with Gable and Crawford , Our Ganger Mary Ann Jackson , hair bob and all . There are some entertaining musical numbers danced by Crawford including an amusing sequence of Joan dressing as a farmer with funny nose and beard . Other than that and the picnic scenes , this is a pretty talky picture that reveals its stage origins too clearly toward the end so you may feel bored after a while . Still , an interesting curio for fans of all the above players .
Wizards has an interesting premise but partially boring execution	Maybe it was because I saw this while staying up really late but I found Wizards boring after a while and a little confused as a result . Having said that , I did like some of the humor presented here , my favorite being the " They killed Fritz ! " segment that I recognized as Ralph Bakshi's reaction to Robert Crumb's killing his beloved underground comic cat character after Bakshi's adopting Fritz for the big screen . Some of the battle scenes with footage of Hitler and his men and silhouette of various live-action movie battle reenactments of World War II mixed with animated depictions of blood also were pretty interesting . And the way the good wizard dealt with his bad wizard brother made a satisfying ironic touch to this magic vs . technology parable . It just seemed to fall apart , however , as the narration kept giving so much exposition that I just couldn't keep up . Maybe another viewing would clear my mind of all the goings on here but for now I'm giving this one a 5 .
From Dime to Dime was another Paramount Modern Madcap that I just watched on YouTube	Just watched on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew what was another Paramount Modern Madcap called From Dime to Dime . In this one , a poor man finds a dime on a sidewalk and decides to get a cup of coffee at a diner . It's here that his conscience tells him to use it to gamble on a slot machine . From there , the guy's luck changes for the good until . . . This being from the former Famous Studios , this cartoon has the usual cast and crew from director Seymour Kneitel and music director Winston Sharples to voice artists Jackson Beck and Jack Mercer who co-wrote the story with Carl Meyer . Nothing really funny happens and if you're familiar with this kind of story you can probably guess the ending but it's fascinating to see such an adult subject matter being treated in what was still at this time considered a kiddie medium . So on that note , From Dime to Dime is worth a look for Paramount / Famous completists .
Black Diamond Express is a fascinating piece of early cinema from Thomas Edison	Just watched this very brief depiction of a train coming as railroad workers striking on tracks start to leave as the locomotive comes nearer . At only 26 seconds , at least that was the length on Internet Archive , this was another fascinating document from the nineteenth century as captured on film from The Edison Company . Supposedly , many in the audience that were watching a moving picture for the first time also ran away as the train on the screen went toward them as had happened in France when a similar image was depicted earlier on screen as filmed diagonally by the Lumiere brothers . Well worth a look for anyone interested in early cinema .
Guru , the Mad Monk was a pretty entertaining bad B-movie	I just went on Google Video to watch this , one of a double feature presented on Torgo's Drive-In ( the other feature being I Drink Your Blood which I have yet to see ) . At 56 minutes , I found this Andy Milligan-directed horror movie fascinating with the constant pounding score and Dragnet-like stilted dialogue abounding throughout . Having said that , I actually found the story pretty entertaining and I found myself partially caring for the sympathetic characters . Many of the gore scenes , while very amateurish , were also fun to watch in a can - you - believe - their - doing - this way . And having a hunchback that sometimes speaks clearly was also a hoot ! So on that note , I'm recommending Guru , the Mad Monk to bad movie buffs everywhere . P . S . On Torgo's Drive-In , this movie was preceded by some ads for the concession stand and previews of Carnival of Blood , The Thing with Two Heads , and Teenage Mother . Oh , and the print I saw had the synchronization off by several seconds .
TV movie Get Christie Love ! is interesting for historical purposes	Based on the book , " The Ledger " , Get Christie Love was the first time a black female portrayed a detective on network TV . Teresa Graves is adequately compelling as the cop with some attitude whose superior , Captain Reardon ( Harry Guardino ) , has a major open flirtation with her that she seems to occasionally encourage . The main plot concerns the search of a drug dealer's ledger through the interrogation of the wife in order to bring him down . Despite some fight scenes and car chases that attract some attention , the pace seemed mostly dreary and I almost fell asleep before the end . The most interesting discovery for me , however , was the appearance of Ron Rifkin as a serial killer of prostitutes named Normand whom Christie catches in the beginning when she dresses as one . Rifkin would , nearly three decades later , play Sloane on one of the most exciting action series ever-Alias . Compared to that show , this TV movie that later became a series doesn't have as exciting fight scenes but I guess network censorship was more stricter then . Worth a look for historical purposes .
Walt Disney's Alice's Mysterious Mystery is amusing	Since someone has already written a summary I'll just mention a few gags . At the beginning when we see the mouse and his boss riding in their car , they ride over smoke that came from the exhaust pipe ! The boss himself juggles smoke from his cigar . When they go to the school to get some dogs , they trick them inside by having the mouse climb to the roof and clanging the school bell after which they literally squeeze the schoolhouse out of every last drop of dog ! Alice and Julius the cat have their own car which they can fold into a suitcase . As they chase the dogcatchers , the boss and mouse come to a cliff . The mouse gets a thin string , throws it to the other end , and ties it there before carrying himself and the boss across . He loses balance partway through , however , so the car goes the rest of the way using its back tires as human feet ! Alice and Julius ' car crosses the same all the way through . Amusing if primitive , this early Walt Disney is still worth seeing if you're a fan .
Soda Jerks was an interesting Mutt and Jeff cartoon I saw on YouTube	In this silent Mutt and Jeff cartoon , Jeff puts some pep liquid instead of the usual syrup in the sodas that Mutt serves to the customers in the malt shop . As a result , they all jump up and down and act a little more enthusiastic than usual going outside . Eventually when Mutt forces the drink on Jeff , Jeff manages to chase the police away and destroys their paddy wagon before giving Mutt a literal spin over his head ! While it's a little repetitious seeing various customers and animals doing literally the same thing again and again , occasionally there's a little variety in the results like having a dog ( or cat ) having his legs elongated ! The print I watched on YouTube was actually filmed on a projected screen so I heard the whirring that went with that but otherwise it was a good presentation of this rare animated short . Worth a look for animated fans as well as those of comic strip characters Mutt and Jeff .
Homecoming is a little amusing first episode of " Miss Guided "	Having seen Judy Greer in movies like 13 Going on 30 , 27 Dresses , and TV shows like " Arrested Development " , " Love Monkey " , and " Two and a Half Men " , I was anxious to see her in her first starring role in the TV series " Miss Guided " . Here , she plays Becky Freeley , a former student at the high school she returns to as the new guidance counselor . Also on hand is former SNLer Chris Parnell as the vice principal , Kristoffer Polaha as the Spanish teacher Becky has a crush on , and Brooke Burns as Lisa , Becky's rival back then and now . Ms . Greer provides many amusing lines and does some good physical stuff . Parnell himself also steals some scenes . Judy's dialogue with some of the students , like the one she thinks has a crush on her , also has some moments . The whole thing seems uneven so far though , since the show can't make up its mind if we're supposed to laugh at or with the characters . Nonetheless , this seems like a good start for a promising series .
Lincense to Wed has some hilarity thanks to a supporting player from TV's " The Office "	Having read many negative movie critic's reviews of this movie , Lincense to Wed , I really wasn't expecting much . Still , since Robin Williams was the star , I expected some laughs . To me , his performance as the priest who wants to make sure the couple - about - to - marry - in - three - weeks , Mandy Moore and John Krasinski , follow his conditions for his blessing was a little hit-or-miss for me . The real laughs came from one of Krasinski's TV " Office " co-stars , Brian Baumgartner , who's hilarious whether doing a mock argument with his wife or diving for fries when they fall or dancing with a bare midriff . Krasinski's other co-stars from his series , Angela Kinsey and Mindy Kaling , also provide some humorous moments though Kaling's the funnier of those two as the nagging wife of John's best friend . I also loved Wanda Sykes as a doctor who shows expectant couples to Wiliams , Moore , and Krasinski and almost says the proper word for the female anatomy before she calls out to someone named Virginia ! The funniest parts were the bloopers at the end especially those of Baumgartner ! All in all , funny in spots ( loved the doll babies and John's treatment of them ) and maybe a little touching romantically near the end but if you want something that's consistently funny and a bit more mature ( in both humor and drama ) , I suggest Knocked Up while it's still playing in a theatre near you .
Moon Over Harlem marks Edgar G . Ulmer's rare foray into " race movies "	From director Edgar G . Ulmer came this , his rare foray in " race movies " , Moon Over Harlem . The story , about a rich widow who unknowingly marries a gangster to the consternation of her daughter , is the kind that already seemed old hat in 1939 , though Ulmer does the best he could under the circumstances with the low budget and a short schedule of only four days . The best one could say about the results is that the dialogue does keep flowing and the score mostly keeps playing . Too bad someone didn't try to keep the movie preserved enough to maybe clean up some of the wear on both the soundtrack and print . All that said , the performances of Buddy Harris as mob boss Dollar Bill , Cora Green as new wife Minnie , Izinetta Wilcox as daughter Sue who also provides a nice singing voice , and Earl Gough as Sue's crusading boyfriend Bob are pretty good despite their limited rehearsal time . And it's nice to see jazz legends like Christopher Columbus and New Orleans native Sidney Bechet perform here during the wedding reception . I was also slightly amused by Freddie Robinson as Half-Pint . Also , if I didn't read the cast list here on IMDb , I wouldn't have recognized Jacksonville , FL , native Mercedes Gilbert , who I previously saw in Oscar Micheaux's Body and Soul , in this movie . In summation , Moon Over Harlem is uneven as drama but should be interesting enough for anyone curious about these old movies made for a certain segment of the United States who were being treated as second-class citizens at this time .
Abraham Lincoln is interesting early Griffith talkie	Abraham Lincoln is D . W . Griffith's first sound film . Since this movie is only 92 minutes , it seems to divide Lincoln's life-from birth to his assassination-into fragments that are too short and hardly flow from one sequence to another . The saving grace is Walter Huston as the title character especially in a speech to an army deserter he tells to " do his duty " after he pardons him . There is also wonderful background music that occasionally serves as score whenever possible in this awkward early talkie . And the assassination scene ( which Griffith had staged before in The Birth of the Nation ) is beautifully done to gradual suspense . Then we hear a wonderful instrumental of " Glory , Glory , Hallelujah ! " as we pan first to the model woods and log cabin that we saw in the beginning and then to a model of the Lincoln Memorial ( having been to Washington recently I can tell a model from the real thing ) stopping on Lincoln himself as we fade out . This being Griffith's second to last picture , it's sad he wasn't given more of a chance to try to adjust to sound techniques but while this movie does feel creaky he still got good performances from Huston and most of the supporting cast ( although Una Merkel might have overdone it as Ann Rutledge ) . Worth a look for Griffith enthusiasts .
Ups ' n Downs is another interesting early Bosko short	Watched this Bosko short on YouTube and I agree with the previous poster that this was amusing and nothing more . Best sequence was indeed the hot dogs dancing without a care despite their intended purpose ! The " Mammy and Sonny Boy " gag may be pretty obscure for anyone who doesn't know Al Jolson , otherwise it may be considered racist by others though in this case I don't think any real harm was meant by it . If the mouse drawn here looks a little familiar , it's because the directors , Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising , once drew for Walt Disney when he did Oswald the Lucky Rabbit who somewhat resembles the future mouse that would put Disney on the map of animation history . Worth a look once for anyone interested in this sort of thing .
Golden Yeggs is a somewhat disappointing Porky and Daffy short	This is the rare Porky and Daffy cartoon in which the two characters don't communicate much , in fact , Porky just appears in the beginning as a farmer who asks which of his hens laid the golden egg . The actual hen , knowing how the last one that did this ended badly , points to Daffy . Daffy accepts the undeserved credit as Porky presents him to the press . After Porky is forced to sell the duck to Rocky and his gang , that's the last we see of him . The rest of the short has Daffy pressured to lay another one in five minutes . Some amusing gags abound in the Friz Freling short but realizing it's not going to be a satisfying ending for the leading character made Golden Yeggs one of the weakest I've seen so far in The Looney Tunes Golden Collection DVD set , Vol . 1 .
Harry Happy was a fascinating late-era Paramount cartoon	Just watched this Paramount Modern Madcap cartoon on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . In this one , the title character has a bad day at work but is nice to all the people on the way home despite the treatment he gets ( he lets a lady on a bus and then watches other passersby stomp on him as they go ahead of him , a lady's dog chases him , and a window washer drops a pail of water on him ) . Then he arrives home and treats his wife like a slave . Wife then hits his head with a frying pan and threatens a divorce . So Harry goes to a psychiatrist who counsels him to do the opposite of what he's been doing . So he stomps over those same passersby , barks at that lady's dog , and pours water over that lady window washer . Then at home , he attempts to do all his wife's chores with disastrous results . So once again , he gets hit on the head with a frying pan . The end . . . I didn't think this cartoon was funny until Harry turned the tables , but even then it's obvious he needs a LOT of help with his behavior . Director Seymour Kneitel's treatment of the cruel husband , frustrated wife isn't as cleverly funny as Robert McKimson's Wild Wife from several years earlier but it's still fascinating as a study of what was considered as acceptable comedy during the pre-women's lib era . One more thing , Winston Sharples takes the instrumental bridge he co-wrote for the Fleischers ' Gulliver Travels-the song " It's a Hap-Hap-Happy Day " - and incorporates it here . So on that note , Harry Happy is worth a look for Famous / Paramount cartoon completists .
Roger Corman's Day the World Ended is interesting ' 50s sci-fi fare	Day the World Ended was producer / director Roger Corman's first sci-fi effort for James H . Nicholson and Samuel Z . Arkoff's American International Pictures . It centers on a house in a forest of a father and grown daughter that also borders a geologist , a gangster and his strip-tease girlfriend , an old gold prospector and his burro , and a radiated man who may die soon . The time-line is after a nuclear attack . The above characters are an assortment meant to create conflict and melodrama that becomes entertaining despite the clichés that abound . Fans of " Mannix " should have no trouble recognizing Mike " Touch " Connors as the criminal Tony who has designs on Lori Nelson , only she exclusively has eyes for Richard Denning whose best known role was as the Governor on Hawaii Five-0 ( although Lucy fans would also know him as Miss Ball's spouse on radio's My Favorite Husband ) . A bit slow for modern audiences , this movie does maintain a pace that made me care for some of the characters . In fact , I found most of the movie pretty compelling until I saw the entire monster creature who , as designed and played by Paul Blaisdell , looks even in low-budget ' 50s terms so cheesy . Still , for anyone with a keen interest in drive-in fare made by Corman for AIP , give Day the World Ended a try .
Bosko's Woodland Daze is slightly less entertaining than other Boskos	This Bosko short meanders a little more than usual compared to many of the other shorts in the series as it begins with him and his dog Bruno playing Hide and Seek . Bosko then dreams he's with elves along with a giant and a giant piano that he easily plays with his hands and feet ! There's also some princesses in flowers that sings some chorus lines and some other musical interludes before Bruno wakes up his master and the short ends . Not as entertaining as many others but still worth it for the animation and some of the climax . Wish YouTube had presented a better print . As Bosko says at the end with a dog ( early Bruno ? ) barking , " That's all , folks ! "
The Busy Bee is a Terrytoons short from the ' 30s	As many insects happily go to work , a working bee sings and declares his love for a butterfly . A spider from a tree above who's jealous of the bee takes the butterfly and kidnaps her to a wooden place that he surrounds with his web . The bee gets help in rescuing his girlfriend from some horseradish flies ( which are horses with wings ) and the firebugs who ride the flies to the spider's lair and light his web on fire as the bee and butterfly sing like Nelson Eddy and Jennette McDonald for the conclusion . . . This Terrytoons black-and-white short shows its operatic roots that may be charming or not depending on your music tastes . Otherwise , The Busy Bee is worth a look for any animation fan especially one who's a fan of Paul Terry .
George A . Romero's Monkey Shines is interesting horror film mixing handicaps with animals	George A . Romero's Monkey Shines is a pretty interesting horror movie about a monkey's sharing a mind with a paraplegic law student named Allan ( Jason Beghe ) . Nice score by David Shire with wonderful use of Peggy Lee songs throughout . It almost loses steam at the end but there's a wonderful shock involving the monkey Ella ( Boo ) before the happy ending . Look for future TV stars John Pankow , Janine Turner , Stephen Root , and Stanley Tucci in pivotal roles . Also appearing are Kate McNeil as the love interest , Joyce Van Patten as Allan's mother , and Mrs . George Romero , Christine Forrest , as the maid Maryanne whose bird , Bogie , meets an untimely end . Makes you wonder how dangerous such harmless little monkeys can be . . .
The Four Musicians of Bremen is another of Disney's earliest cartoons	According to the IMDb list of Walt Disney's directorial achievements , this was the second earliest animated short he ever made ( the first being Little Red Riding Hood ) . In this Laugh-O-Gram , we see four animals running from bricks being thrown after them by humans . The last of them , a cat , keeps appearing and disappearing at various points in this sequence . They stop at a river where three of them play music while the cat tries to catch a fish that walks out of the river and jumps away each time the cat tries to hit him with a board . I'll stop there and say that was pretty amusing as was a later sequence where some human men shoot cannon balls at the house the four animals are staying with the cat pulling a Felix and using his tail to hit one of those balls from the roof and then riding on another of them ( or was it the same one ? I can't remember ) . Pretty primitive but worth a look for anyone curious about the legendary Disney's earliest works .
Oh , Alfie ! ( or Alfie Darling ) provides some nice distraction for an hour and a half	In this in-name-only sequel to Michael Caine's Alfie ( 1966 ) , musician Alan Price ( of The Animals ) takes over the title role in Oh , Alfie ! ( alternate title to Alfie Darling ) He's not bad and neither is Jill Townsend as Abby Summers , a magazine editor who has trouble taking time off for dating Alfie but somehow does . Not that the bloke has completely changed his ways , certainly not with Joan Collins playing one of his conquests . Alfie's encounters with her jealous husband is one of the highlights here . Having read of some topless scenes from the last comment , when I saw this on the Flick by Flick blog , I was very disappointed they were all cut out ! What was left was some pretty bawdy scenes near the end that upped the entertainment a little . In closing , while Oh , Alfie ! wasn't any great shakes , it's certainly a nice distraction for about 90 minutes .
Pals ( or Christmas Night ) was an amusing Van Beuren cartoon starring The Little King	Just rewatched this cartoon from the Van Beuren Studios on YouTube . The version I saw had the title Christmas Night which was the same title I witnessed when I first got this on VHS during the ' 80s . It stars The Little King , a popular comic strip character who is mute though other characters occasionally speak to him . Here it's Santa Claus who does the honors as he takes the King's request to deliver some presents to his palace for him and a couple of tramps he picks from a sidewalk window as they all look at the toys displayed . What they watch there is a little blackface doll tap dancing which is probably the only scene that would be offensive today in the entire cartoon though there is also a scene where all three are in a bathtub . Not too much in laughs though I was highly amused when one of the tramps revealed he wore a bra underneath his shirt ! Best scene is the climax as all three ride in their cars or plane and wreak some stuff in the palace joyfully ! So on that note , I guess I'm recommending Pals ( or Christmas Night ) .
The Plastic Blaster is a good episode of Ralph Bakshi's The Mighty Heroes	In the late ' 60s when Terrytoons was a part of CBS , Ralph Bakshi got a big break when he pitched a cartoon series that spoofed superhero groups . The Mighty Heroes was the result . The lineup consisted of Strong Man , Rope Man , Tornado Man , Cukoo Man , and Diaper Man . In this episode , the villain is called The Raven who with the help of his flying friends rob a jewelry store . He also has a gun which has the power to liquefy anyone still . While the MH manage to grab the gun , they keep clumsily aiming it at themselves allowing The Raven to get everyone captured except Diaper Man who follows his friends to the villain's hideout . Eventually , good prevails . . . It takes a while but the laughs do come at the climatic fights at the end . Loved Diaper Man's use of his baby bottle in defeating The Raven or the Rope Man saying , " I'm tied up . " after getting such with his rope skin . Bakshi probably provided Terrytoons with one last hurrah before the cartoon studio closed for good a few years later . He never forgot his roots either since about 20 years after he developed Mighty Mouse : The New Adventures . . .
Jackass Number Two is almost as disgusting ( and amusing ) as One	My friend who recently celebrated his birthday ( see my Invincible review ) asked if I'd like to see Jackass Number Two . Since it would be with his sisters , their boyfriends , and the son of one of them and we'd eat at a nearby Mexican restaurant beforehand , I said sure . Now I'd seen the first Jackass which I found funny and disgusting so I knew what to expect here . I wasn't disappointed what with the snakes , penises , fecal matter , old man scrotum , and old lady breasts , I once again laughed and cringed . There was one skit about terrorists and taxi drivers that almost killed the laughter until the end when all was revealed . There was also an amusing Busby Berkely parody that some young viewers may not get but I enjoyed immensely . So based on my enjoyment of many of the skits whether gross or not , I'm giving this one a 6 .
Bosko the Sheep-Herder should be interesting enough for anyone interested in early Warner cartoon era	Since a previous reviewer mentioned some of the gags , let me see if I can describe some he missed like when a bunch of sheep started eating the grass in unison as if they were a lawnmower . Or when a squirrel has trouble eating a whole nut and Bosko has said squirrel's head get touched by him to force the nut into several pieces so the squirrel can eat all those pieces as he thanks Bosko with Bosko saluting him . Several years after Mickey Mouse's Steamboat Willie , it seems musical cartoons were still the order of the day with many amusing , if not hilarious , gags shoehorned in . I guess it would take a Tex Avery to make gags and not music performances the main ingredient of good cartoons . Still , Bosko the Sheep-Herder should be good enough for anyone curious of the early Warner Bros . Looney Tunes-Merrie Melodies era before such icons like Porky Pig , Daffy Duck , or Bugs Bunny were created .
Buddy's Pony Express was another pretty amusing Buddy cartoon	This is another cartoon from Warner Bros . that stars forgotten character Buddy with his girlfriend Cookie . This time they're in the old west with Buddy playing the piano while Cookie sings . After that interlude , there's an announcement of a horse race called the Pony Express . But the villain who looks like Disney's Peg Leg Pete without the peg leg , seems so intent on winning that he replaces Buddy's " fastest horse in the county " with his own inflatable ( or so it seems ) one . . . There's some funny gags here and this cartoon moves at a constant pace and though Buddy himself is no great personality , he does have some charm here . With that said , I do recommend Buddy's Pony Express .
Olive Oyl for President was another vintage cartoon I decided to watch this Election Day	On this Election Day , I thought I'd look at some vintage cartoons that had popular characters running or dreaming of such . Having just watched Betty Boop for President , I checked this out from ThadBlog right after . With the same voice talent ( Mae Questel ) and some of the same music from the previous black-and-white short , this color cartoon has Olive bopping Popeye after he laughs when she expresses interest in running for the highest office in the land . Most of what Ms . Oyl would do is pretty silly and a little sexist ( like having her cabinet consist of the male Paramount contract roster ) but by the time she addresses the elephant and donkey audience in Congress and gets them to stop arguing by having Cupid shoot ( through a machine gun ! ) arrows on them , I was amused enough to find this animated short pretty entertaining in its own right . Oh , and there's a cameo of Famous Studios ' Little Audrey licking a giant ice cream cone . . .
Another Day , Another Doormat is an interesting Terrytoons cartoon from the Deitch era	Just watched this Gene Deitch-era Terrytoon cartoon designed by Jules Feiffer on YouTube . In this one , a man named John Doormat is henpecked by his nagging wife Jane especially when he smokes pipes at the table . However , when he goes to work , he becomes an aggressive boss who roars at his employees . When he finds defective pipes at his desk , John decides to go to the department store to demand replacements . Coinsidentally , Jane goes to the same store at the same time . . . Since IMDb lists Allen Swift as the only voice artist in the cast , I'm guessing he did both John and Jane ( who sounds masculine ) . Anyway , this was quite amusing with the voice changes John goes through after leaving home and going to the bus on the way to work . And when we see Jane at home watching television and imagining a real handsome man being aggressive with her , we see just how much she really loves someone who has his way with her . The way this cartoon ends is something anyone familiar with sitcoms of the time could predict but is interesting to see nonetheless with the Feiffer designs . So on that note , I recommend Another Day , Another Doormat .
Sunday Go to Meetin ' Time is one of the Censored 11 that has some entertainment value	This was the second , in chronological order , of the Censored 11 Warner Bros . cartoons I've watched on Thad's Animation Blog . Sunday Go to Meetin ' Time has the stereotypical drawn caricature of African-Americans with big white lips as well as the Stepin ' Fetchit prototype in leading character Nicodemus . A really offensive scene has a mother putting shoe polish on her bald kids ' heads then the father shining them on the other side . Other than that , this was a pretty entertaining musical cartoon about the leading character going to Hell and back . That Friz Freling directed this should come as no surprise since his musical shorts are usually some of the most entertaining . Worth a look for any animation buff who's aware of certain time period acceptance of certain stereotypes .
I Married Joan : The Allergy is silly but amusing	Judge Stevens is running for Surperior Court against Judge Casper Bennington . Since Bennington makes it public how happy he is married to his wife , Steven's publicist wants Joan and Brad to look even more happy in public . At this time , however , Joan seems to be developing an allergy to her husband so Brad initially goes to a hotel during the campaign . Eventually , Brad does go home but he can only be a certain distance from his wife . This starts rumors of a breakup so Brad's publicist accepts a challenge from Judge Bennington to have the Stevens appear with the Benningtons on TV to deny the gossip . When the TV host tries to get Joan and Brad together on camera , Joan keeps making funny faces to keep from sneezing . Bennington then comes on with his wife to show how happy they are but Joan then blows pepper toward Mrs . Bennington before she appears on camera causing her to make faces ! Bennington then withdraws followed by a final gag that I won't reveal here . Funniest gags are Joan's facial reactions on camera and a sight gag involving a blanket floating up ! Pretty silly overall but amusing throughout . Worth seeing for fans of Joan Davis and Jim Backus .
The Last Laurel was pretty good filler as the last segment of " Night Gallery "	Airing in the same hour as " They're Tearing Down Tim Riley's Bar " , " The Last Laurel " is the shorter segment of " Night Gallery " . It stars Jack Cassidy as Marius Davis , a man who's paralyzed from the legs with a bad back who suspects his wife of having an affair with his doctor . When a collapsed bridge forces the doctor to stay in the house , Marius finds he has an out-of-body experience that allows him to pick objects up at will . So he picks up some scissors in order to kill his wife's alleged paramour . I'll stop there and just say that the length of about eight minutes seems just about right for this episode as one wouldn't want to spend another second with these not-so-very-nice people . So I don't think the ending effected me one way for another . And since I'm used to this kind of twist ending especially from writer Rod Serling , it really wasn't a surprise to me . Still , it was pretty good as filler goes . . .
The Tail of the Monkey was an interesting look at some early silent Lantz	Here's another Walter Lantz cartoon short I found on the CartoonsOnFilm blog . In this one , which he co-directed with David Hand , Lantz plays an organ grinder whose monkey steals a girl's lollipop in the live-action sequences . To keep the girl from crying , the organ grinder tells of why the monkey keeps moving his tail as we fade in to an animated version of the tale as the monkey fixes a horseshoe while his long tail gets burned on a grill ( why it's cooking nothing in particular is not explained ) . That tail also gets caught in a cheese-shaped mousetrap as tricked by a mouse who lives inside and holds the monkey up on a tree branch as he tries to make a giant hippo ring by 5 : 15 since his assistant went out to lunch at 5 ! The gags I just described are amusing in their primitive way in the animation and it's just fascinating just looking at what passed for movie cartoons back in the day . The Tail of the Monkey was an Unnatural History series entry for The J . R . Bray Studio where Lantz was an employee at the time . Worth a look for any animation buff out there .
Open Season is amusing enough for anyone who loves animation	Martin Lawrence voices a domesticated bear and Ashton Kutcher voices a hyperactive deer . They cause havoc at a closed convenience store in Timberline and are sent back to the woods . When open season begins , they defend themselves against hunters , especially a bloodthirsty one voiced by Gary Sinise , with the help of beavers , ducks , skunks , rabbits , a herd of other deer , and an army of squirrels led by a Scottish-tinged one voiced by Billy Connolly . What starts as fitfully amusing becomes hilarious by the time the animals vs . hunters sequence begins . Not up to Pixar standards , perhaps , but still worthy for the whole family to watch and get amused by . Additional voices by Jane Krakowski , Georgia Engel , Jon Favreau , Patrick Warburton , and as the bear's motherly ranger , Debra Messing .
Feline Follies is interesting as Felix's first appearance	In what was the earliest appearance of Felix the Cat , Feline Follies , he is called Master Tom and is more cat-like here than in most of his subsequent appearances . In this one , he's a house cat guarding some mice in the kitchen . When he gets away for awhile to rendezvous with his girlfriend , the mice make a mess of the kitchen . He serenades her with his guitar while she dances . Later , some notes appear literally and become wheels for go-carts they ride on . When he comes back and finds what the mice have done , the female head comes and throws him out . He then goes back to his girlfriend and sees other cats in a crowd look interested in her . The cat then goes to a gas site where he finds a hose and commits suicide . . . Yikes , what a downer beginning for animation's first superstar character ! Otto Messmer must have not of thought of long-term commitment when he created his famous feline . Good thing with a more appealing design , and a more lasting name in Felix , this character would eventually take over the silent animation world . So for many Felix enthusiasts out there , this is worth seeing for at least historical interest .
Towne Hall Follies is a Walter Lantz Oswald cartoon with some hilarious touches from animator Tex Avery	I found this rare Walter Lantz Oswald cartoon with some animation by Tex Avery on David Germain's animation blog on his tribute to Avery's 100th birthday . It's basically a stage slide show / vaudeville revue that features a female singer who gets chased by the villain before the Lucky Rabbit saves her and gets her love . A couple of gags that may have been created by Avery include : Oswald asking a lady to take off her hat as it's blocking his view but getting even more blocked when her hair suddenly grows into a giant afro ! Also , as the trapeze artist spins around on his swing , so too do the audiences ' heads from top to bottom ! That's all the inventive stuff I saw in this cartoon , still Towne Hall Follies is worth a look for any Avery fans out there .
Kindred is a slow-moving but still intriguing episode of " Heroes "	Claire apologizes for her argument with her dad in the previous episode . He accepts . At school , she tells West , the boy who watched her cut her toe , that she was just fixing her nails . He doesn't believe and asks her why she can't be who she really is . Claire leaves to go to class . In 17th century Japan , Takezo Kensei , Hiro's idol , finds he can heal from fatal wounds . He tells Hiro he wants to use them to make him rich . Hiro reveals his own powers and teleports himself and Takezo to a big battle scene to teach him a lesson . In Ireland , Peter , who still has amnesia , agrees to help commit armed robbery in order to get the box with his history inside . His mind-reading skills alerts him that one of the brothers is going to betray the gang's leader . He confronts them but gets no support . After visiting DL's graveyard in Las Vegas , Niki and Micah move to New Orleans , La . to start a new life . Waiting there is Micah's grandmother ( Nichelle Nichols , another welcome " Star Trek " veteran ) . Mohinder comes back to his apartment with cheers from Molly but doubts from Matt about the assignment Mohinder is on . After West mentions about regeneration again in class , Claire leaves with West following . After they reveal themselves , West then takes Claire up and away for sightseeing . She loves it . After the robbery succeeds , Peter sees one of the brothers pull the gun and manages to use his mind to hit him against the wall . He almost kills him but the female in the gang convinces him to stop . When he gets his box , he's reluctant because he seemed to enjoy his cold-blooded methods and thinks his past is similar . He then kisses the lady who saved him . In Hounduras , twins Maya and Alejandro are caught stealing a car with Alejandro being shipped to jail . Maya tries to get her brother out but gets arrested before she kills them all . When she meets her brother , they hold hands and everyone is alive again but they get out of jail with another prisoner before they're seen again . The car has a bumper sticker of the team of Claire's school . Hiro tells Kensei and his lady he has to go back . He has written Ando all this time about his adventures in letters in his sword that Ando has . At the last minute , he stays . A woman on a beach is serving drinks to someone waking up . It's Sylar ! We find out they're actually at a warehouse and Sylar has lost his powers . The woman vows to help to get them back and changes to various people to reveal hers . Sylar kills her and calls her Candace who was brunette instead of redhead as she is here but dead she's actually a much larger woman . Mohinder's new office is in Issac's old apartment . His superior has vowed to keep tabs on him . He finds another of Issac's old paintings and e-mails it to Noah Bennett's house . It depicts of Noah dead while Claire and West are kissing on the beach . Earlier , West had revealed of being abducted by a " Horned-Rimmed Glasses " guy . Claire comes in and greets her dad just as Noah turns his computer off . Crisis averted for now . . . Intriguing but slow-moving , this episode does answer some questions about last season . Oh , and one more thing , Niki is also still trying to find a cure for her powers and has called Mohinder's superior for help . Should pick up the pace in another week so until next time . . .
Charlie Chan in Paris is slow but enjoyable mystery	Charlie Chan in Paris is the second Warner Oland entry I've seen , the first was Charlie Chan at the Opera some twenty years before . The movie seemed a bit slow going at first but as the picture went on that pace seemed to work in its favor . Charlie goes to the French city , ostensibly on vacation , to visit a son of a banker friend and with his fiancée and another couple whose male part likes to draw pictures of people he knows , they go to a nightclub where an apache dancer , actually an assistant of Chan's named Nardi , gets murdered . Another one occurs later on . This film is notable as Keye Luke's first appearance as Chan's number one son Lee , here seen quite helpful in the case . Worth seeing for mystery fans , especially those who like ' 30-type programmers .
Opening Night is amusing pre-Code cartoon	We see Santa and his reindeer up in the night sky with Santa opening his bag . Stars come out which form the word Roxy lighting the theater's opening night . Cubby Bear is not allowed in the crowded entrance so he takes a top hat and has it push him up to where the Roxy control room is . He comes to another room , finds a rope to pull which takes him to where the conductor's spot is . Cubby is now the conductor ! As the opera is playing , one patron is obnoxiously eating peanuts and dropping them to the floor . The usher tries to shush him out only to be insulted . Control room operator sees this and ejects patron's seat below to be replaced by two seats from the entrance with replacement audience members . On stage , we see a big-breasted heroine singing to smaller leading man . Leading man is challenged to a duel by rival . A crowd gathers to watch the swordfight as rival has his head cut off . He comes downstairs replacing it with a flowerpot ! Hero bounces on girlfriends breasts ( talk about a pre-Code moment ! ) . As Cubby is finishing his conducting , a monkey musician is waiting for his ending on his big drum . As he bangs his drum once loudly , a hole forms below him causing him and everyone else to fall through . Cubby comes out as we iris out on his close-up . Pretty amusing Van Beuren cartoon with a few risqué materials that wouldn't pass the censors after 1934 . Worth a look for animation buffs .
Dial M for Laptop is another amusing episode of Andy Barker P . I .	Andy has been working on his father-in-law's ( David Huddleston ) tax return on the night before it's due . Just as he's about to finish , some men take his computer out in exchange for some " dirty " photos of a former client of Lew's . Turns out Lew forgot to inform Andy about all this . Now Andy vows to get his laptop back even if he has to meet a woman named Loretta Crispin ( Tracy Lords ) . . . Pretty amusing , if not hilarious episode . I loved some of the lines of Tony Hale's Simon and Harve Presnell's Lew the best . The Lords character also goes by the name " Geneva " who supposedly is on her way to a convention and I guess you can figure what joke goes here . . . Like I said , it was pretty amusing but about this time NBC announced there would be no more episodes after the next two airs so Mr . Richter seems to have struck out on television after previously failing with " Andy Richter Controls the Universe " ( which I liked ) and " Quintuplets " ( which I didn't ) . Maybe he'll do better in movies or even appear again as Sad Dad in " The New Adventures of Old Christine " . . .
My Little Margie : Missing Link should be amusing for early ' 50s sitcom fans	Margie goes to her father's loan company to borrow some money so she can invest wisely . She then accidentally buys a wrestler ! Vern , her father , is not too thrilled with Margie's investment . The wrestler threatens anyone who gets angry with ( her father ) or kisses ( boyfriend Freddie ) Margie . He later reveals to father he lets anyone who tells sob story to him win . Vern goes to wrestler's opponent and tells him what he just heard . That opponent tells his own sob story in ring but then Margie kisses him and wrestler throws him out into the audience where Vern is setting ! There's some other plot points in this episode but I'll let you find out for yourself . This is another silly but amusing story by the show's writers that should be funny enough for those that like this sort of thing . If you like what I just described and is interested in what filmed sitcoms were like in the 1950s , this show is certainly worth a look .
A different-voiced Betty Boop is the highlight of The Bum Bandit	Just saw this on YouTube . Bimbo tries to rob a train but is stopped by his wife , Nan McGroo , played with dog ears by Betty Boop in only her fourth appearance . She has a much tougher voice here than the more sweet one associated with Mae Questel . Typical early Max and Dave Fleischer talkie with plenty of amusing gags and a musical number between Betty and Bimbo that's the highlight of The Bum Bandit . While this was a Talkartoon starring Bimbo , it's obvious here that Betty's more the show stopper , even with the different voice , and that she'll eventually take over the series . Worth a look for early animation fans , especially those of the Fleischers .
Intruder in the Dust was somewhat interesting to me	Having read the William Faulkner novel and now seen the movie version twice , I have to admit Intruder in the Dust leaves me a little underwhelmed . Perhaps it's the lack of real tension as well as that of a music score ( though it's interesting that a movie made in the late ' 40s would-except for the beginning and end credits-have no score at all since I always thought that started in the ' 70s ) . I personally found the novel a bit pretentious with all the run-on sentences . The most tension for me came when one of the murdered man's brothers poured gas near an old lady's rocking chair in the building that's jailing accused man Lucas Beauchamp and started lighting a match only to blow it out when that lady ( Elizabeth Patterson ) refused to move an inch . Other scenes , like the digging of the grave , seemed to take too long . Other than that , I did like the performances of Claude Jarman , Jr . as the teenage boy who's trying to pay back Lucas for saving him a few years ago , David Brian as the lawyer uncle of Jarman reluctantly defending Beauchamp , and Juano Hernadez as the accused man who bows to no one . This being Black History Month , I'd also like to mention other performers of color to appear here : Julia S . Marshbanks as Beauchamp's wife , John Morgan as a black convict , and Elzie Emanuel as Jarman's friend . And I recognized Will ' Grandpa Walton ' Geer's voice as the sheriff . I guess what I really found a little puzzling was , when the truth came out , everyone seemed to just walk away as if nothing happened . The fact that Jarman and Brian provide some explanation at the end makes the movie somewhat satisfying . For all that , I guess I'm recommending Intruder in the Dust . P . S . I'd also like to mention that two of the performers-David Clarke and Harry Antrim-were both born in the same place I was : Chicago , Illinois .
Bosko the Talk-Ink Kid is interesting pilot for Warner Bros . cartoon series	Bosko the Talk-Ink Kid is Hugh Harmon and Rudy Ising's pilot film for an animated series they were shopping to various studios after working on the Oswald the Lucky Rabbit shorts for Disney and Mintz . Independent producer Leon Schlesinger accepted the pilot and commissioned a series of Bosko Looney Tunes shorts for distribution by Warner Bros . In this initial entry , Ising is at the drawing board drawing a little black figure . This figure's first line is , " Well , I'm glad to be free now that I'm out of the pen . " He then whistles and tap dances . He then asks for a piano which Ising obliges . Bosko plays and sings " Sonny Boy " but awfully ! Having covered his ears , Rudy can't stand it anymore and sends Bosko back into his pen with the piano and stool . After putting the ink back in the inkwell , Bosko comes back out and says , " So long , folks ! " The end title also says what Bosko just said starting the Warner Bros . tradition of ending the shorts with something other than The End . Amusing pilot for the Bosko series and an interesting start for the Warner Bros . cartoon studio . While the title character has something of a Negro dialect , there's nothing really offensive about him unless you consider a young black boy tap dancing as such . Certainly a nice tribute to Max Fleischer's Koko the Clown series . Worth seeing for animation buffs especially those of Warner Bros . cartoons .
Bosko the Doughboy is partly grim / partly funny	Bosko the Doughboy is a bit more grim than usual and since the previous reviewer discussed the short in much detail , I'll mention some gags that haven't been discussed yet . Like the one where the bullets take some of the body of another soldier to make him much smaller instead of killing him . Or the one where after a friend of Bosko's gets a cannonball stuck in his stomach , Bosko gets it out by simply zipping down his front part and taking the ball out of there ! Or the one where the dog soldier has fleas so Bosko solves the problem by getting his metal hat riddled with bullets so with the holes filled in the dog uses it to scratch his back ! Like I said , pretty grim with " gallows " humor abound . Still , worth a look for any early Warner Bros . animation enthusiast .
No Place Like Rome is another one of those sing-a-long cartoons Famous Studios is known for	This was a Famous Studios Song Kartune ( though this version has the Harveytoons logo ) that I just watched on YouTube . It all takes place in Italy with various amusing gags concerning the country's shape ( the obvious boot and foot one ) , the Leaning Tower of Pisa ( where people going in come out in a different position ) , abstract modern painting , spaghetti eating , and a singer trying to break a wine glass ( which results in all the other window glasses broken instead ) . It's here that he tells us to " Follow the bouncing ball " as the song , " Oh , Ma , Ma , ( The Butcher Song ) " is played . After that , a train carrying a just married couple comes through a long tunnel . You can probably guess the punchline for that one . . . I didn't find myself laughing out loud at this one but I was fascinated by the gags just the same . No Place Like Rome is worth seeking out for anyone that loves animation especially for those Famous Studios completists out there .
Bosko's Holiday is an okay cartoon with some inventive gags	Since the previous reviewer and the summary mentioned some of the gags and the story , I'll mentioned some that haven't been discussed yet . Like the one where Bosko summons someone from a big doghouse . Out comes not a dog but a car with a personality of its own with some little car children following him before Bosko sends the kids back home before saying , " Ain't that cute ? " ( He says that a lot in the cartoon ) . Also , at the end Honey turns her back on Bosko when he whispers something in her ear . He successfully tempts her with a sandwich . She goes back to him . Then the dog that had been following them all this time ( was that an early version of Bruno ? ) lifts Honey's skirt . Honey thinking that was Bosko , leaves with Bosko saying , " Aw , nuts ! " . . . I loved the beginning gag with the telephone and alarm clock making movements to wake Bosko up in the beginning and the one where the dog bites into the tire and blows himself up as a result . The rest was eh . Still , recommended for anyone with an interest in early Warner Bros . animation .
So You Want to Be a Detective was my first look at the shorts series character Joe McDoakes	On the Matinée at the Bijou site , there was an article about a series of short films that featured a character named Joe McDoakes . George O'Hanlon-later known as the voice of George Jetson on Hanna-Barbera's " The Jetsons " - played this character . In this version , he becomes private eye Philip Snarlow as he and narrator Art Gilmore search for a killer . Many of the visual and verbal gags got some chuckles if not big guffaws from me . Maybe I was a little distracted by the feminine charms ( not to mention the shapely figure ) of Veronica Vacuum , played here by exquisitely sexy Lila Leeds . It's a wonder the Production Code let her on the screen ! Anyway , while no great shakes , So You Want to Be a Detective is worth a look .
Kid Auto Races in Venice is interesting first look at Chaplin's Tramp character	Kid Auto Races in Venice is historical in that it marks Charlie Chaplin's first appearance as The Tramp . In this short film , The Tramp is a spectator in a soap box derby race that is being filmed . Throughout the short , Charlie keeps getting in front of the camera and getting pushed off by either the cameraman or other spectators . In addition , he almost gets knocked off by some of the kid racers ! Obviously not much to mention of the plot of this six minute short but for some reason I was constantly amused by Chaplin's constant wandering in and out of the path of where the race cars were going as well as the cameraman's attempts to get him out of the way . Worth a look for film history buffs and the easily amused .
Of Mice and Menace is an amusingly violent cartoon from Famous Studios	This is a Herman and Katnip cartoon made for Famous Studios during this time . Herman the mouse brings his cousins ( or nephews ) to the penny arcade by sitting on the trunk of a moving car . Katnip the cat is discovered sleeping on one of the machines . Herman gets some balloons and has the cat floating away through an open roof . Katnip comes back , however , and gives chase after the mouse though Herman has a few more tricks up his sleeve . . . Pretty amusing cartoon with some violent gags that make Tom and Jerry gentlemen by comparison . My favorite gag is more sexually-oriented , however . It concerns the cat looking through a kinetoscope ( an early moving picture machine that shows photos running through a peephole window that simulates movement ) watching a hula girl dancing . It's actually Herman in disguise but Katnip doesn't care ( or is too dumb to know ) ! LOL ! While violent , it's of the most absurd kind that's depicted in this cartoon . So on that note , Of Mice and Menace is worth a look .
Madame Tutli-Putli is imagination run amok for an acquired taste	Madame Tutli-Putli is one of five Oscar nominees for Best Animated Short of 2007 . I saw this Canadian effort on a link from Cartoon Brew . It basically tells , in silent form with luminous musical scoring throughout , a story of a young woman with plenty of baggage , both literally and figuratively , on a train as it travels during the day and night with other people and insects who may or may not be figments of her imagination . I admired many of the images and the way various cuts and movements were made yet there was a confusing air that wasn't entirely satisfied by the end . It's obviously supposed to be dreamlike in a kind of abstract quality but that wasn't enough for me to think this was one of the best animated efforts of the previous year . Still , it was certainly unique so on that note , I'd recommend Madame Tulti-Putli to anyone with a real sense of imagination .
The Hard Part is interesting filler before final two episodes of Heroes	Hiro and Ando arrive at Issac's apartment to find him dead . They overhear Sylar ( he had just talked to Mohinder on the phone about his worry of killing thousands of New Yorkers he just painted of ) coming and hide behind a painting . Sylar hears their heartbeats and quickly closes in on them but they disappear just in time . As he leaves , Hiro and Ando follow him to his mother's ( Ellen Greene ) house in New Jersy . Comforting at first , when Gabriel ( Sylar's actual name ) gives his mother a New York snow globe and makes it move around her , it violently hits her and she rejects him as her son . He then stabs her which makes Hiro freeze the moment as he uses his sword to kill him but then Sylar unfreezes back and attempts to kill Hiro at which point Ando rushes to his friend as he and Hiro disappear leaving Sylar alone . Back to where they were in the start of the episode , Hiro sword is now broken . Peter attempts to change Clarie's mind about going to Paris as he tells her about how he ends up destroying New York with his fire making methods and Claire tells him about Ted who has the same abilities . Peter didn't know about him and he and she tell Nathan who promises to contact the FBI . Instead , he calls Linderman and goes to Thompson as they're unknowingly discovered by Peter and Claire . D . L . and Jessica phase into Las Vegas to rescue Micah who is slowly realizing he's not with his mother . As he attempts to escape without detection , he keeps coming to the same apartment in different places as the shape-sifting Candace reveals herself and threatens Micah to stay . Thompson leads Mohinder to a girl named Molly who has the same abilities as Mohinder's late sister : that of tracking down other special-powered people . His father had discovered a cure for a disease that was too late to save his daughter so Mohinder hopes to use it in time to save Molly . As Peter and Claire walk through New York , they encounter Parkman , Ted , and Claire's adopted father HRG as Peter's hands start to light up . . . Interesting if not always very exciting , this episode seems to partially be filler for the final two seasonal installments . The most interesting parts concerned Sylar , Hiro , and Ando . Hope the D . L . / Niki-Jessica / Micah connection comes soon . There's gotta be some real action in the final two eps . Still , I can wait for a while . . .
Boy Meets Dog is pretty entertaining Walter Lantz " cartune "	I saw Boy Meets Dog on Refederator . com and I saw no sign for Bristol-Myers both times I saw it . Based on the " Reg'lar Fellers " comic strip by Gene Byrnes , this short concerns a boy whose dad abuses him . And the boy's new dog is making it worse . As the dad falls asleep , he dreams of being in court for not treating his boy well . This dream is a musical sequence filled with dwarfs singing whether he's guilty or not . The judge acts like Curly Howard of the Three Stooges while the defending lawyers act like Moe and Larry . Judge later takes off beard revealing to be his son ! Dad gets sentenced to the youth machine where he is turned into a baby . It's at this time that he wakes up with puppy licking him as he turns a new leaf and gets along with his son and his friends . The end . The turn-around seems a bit much for the father but otherwise this is a pretty entertaining short for producer / director Walter Lantz . And besides , in a couple of years we'll meet two of his most famous creations : Anda Panda and Woody Woodpecker . . .
Elmer's Candid Camera provides amusing preview of Elmer and Bugs relationship	This early cartoon directed by Charles M . Jones ( better known as Chuck Jones ) features the first appearance of the short's title character with the voice and facial features though he's a little heavier here and still has traces of his predecessor , Egghead . His nemesis is a rabbit who looks a little like Bugs Bunny except his face is pink and he sounds more like Goofy with a laugh like Woody Woodpeckeer ( no surprise since Mel Blanc also did that bird during this time ) . Elmer's trying to take wildlife pictures but keeps getting pranked on by the rabbit . A pretty amusing dry run for the hunting pictures started by Tex Avery's A Wild Hare , this cartoon should be seen at least for historical value . It's on disc 3 of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 .
Meet the Robinsons is amusing in 3-D from Disney	Containing some elements you'll recognize from Back to the Future and The Wizard of Oz , Meet the Robinsons is a charming and amusing 3-D computer animated movie . A 12-year orphan has failed to get adopted more than 100 times because he keeps inventing things that always result in disaster . Then one day , someone a year older from the future takes him on a journey there in a time machine as he meets the Robinson family who provide him all the joy lacking in his present time . I'll stop right there and say while there is a rushed quality in the first 30 minutes , things slow down eventually to the point that you're left feeling inspired at the end . Wish the movie could be funnier but I wasn't completely disappointed . By the way , there is a punchline involving a Famous Celebrity that pays off at the end that I don't want to spoil here . And it's preceded by Working for Peanuts , an amusing Donald Duck / Chip ' n ' Dale cartoon that was also in 3-D when it first came out in 1953 . What awesome visuals both films had !
Vanished : Aftermath certainly moves along smoothly despite transition	Seems I was a little premature both on Agent Kelton's death and the previous episode being Gale Harold's last . After Kelton got shot , he was taken to a hospital . When Judy Nash went live a few minutes later , it was she who pronounced Kelton dead . Later , his ex-wife identifies his body in the morgue and grieves as she puts his ring with hers on her finger as Lin Mei looks on and offers her condolences . Except near the end when his picture is hung in a bulletin board of martyrs , that scene marks Harold's last appearance . Daniel Lucus is introduced as the new agent in charge of Sara's disappearance as he and Lin Mei try to identify Kelton's assailant . Meanwhile , Senator Jeffery Collins takes a private plane that turns out to be controlled by the man who wants him to help swear his choice in the supreme court . As the plane takes a layover to North Carolina , Collins finds himself surrounded by this guy's men and a woman who's tied up . It's Sara ! This guy tells Collins since he didn't do what he wanted , he'll shoot his wife . He pulls the trigger as Jeffery tries to break free of his captors . No bullets come as the senator breaks down and Sara , mouth gagged , watches helpless . This guy warns Collins the next one's gonna be real . At home , Marcy tries to get her grandfather to give her a thousand worth of her trust fund money . Knowing it's for Ben Wilson's bail , he refuses . Marcy's mother overhears and agrees to help her daughter after accepting a bribe from her ex-husband's handler . At FBI , Lin Mei and Daniel's computer expert ID's the picture of Kelton's assailant to about 30 aliases and finds his North Carolina address . Lin Mei and Daniel take action and hold up his house . As they get in , they find a bomb that is attached to the phone so they get out as fast as they can as house explodes . Assailant escapes but quickly gets caught as Daniel forces him at gunpoint to get out . As assailant does he takes a small knife and slits his throat . As the agents search his trunk , we find pictures of Sara throughout her life . . . Delayed last week by a rain-delayed World Series , Vanished returns after four weeks in a new Friday time slot . Since Fox has told the producers to wrap up the storyline by the 13th episode , there doesn't seem to be any cluttered subplots like there have been the last few episodes . Eddie Cibrian seems to adjust himself nicely in his new role as Gale Harold's replacement . Ming-Na has a few nice scenes concerning her late partner's death . Drama moves along smoothly . Previews of next week certainly look exciting . I guess we'll see next week if it gets any better . . .
30 Rock : Pilot is an uneven but still amusing showcase of Tina Fey's talents	Liz Lemon ( Tina Fey ) is the head writer of The Girlie Show , a late-night comedy show . It stars her good friend Jenna Maroney ( Jane Krakowski ) . Jack Donaghy ( Alec Baldwin ) is the new network exec in charge of production who suggests putting in movie star Tracy Jordan ( Tracy Morgan ) in TGS to appeal to 18-34-year-old males . Liz gets Tracy to agree to come aboard . That's the basic plot of the pilot episode of 30 Rock amid some jokes about mergers ( I like the one about NBC-Universal-GE-KMart ) , black nerds ( a black writer gets compared to Urkel by a fellow white male writer ) , and urination ( Jenna can't open one eye wide because her little sister once peed in it ) . Fey's fellow SNL / Second City castmate Rachel Dratch appears as a cat wrangler and will appear in different roles each week . Fey is a wonderful comedy writer though the pilot is a pretty uneven showcase for her talents . The entire cast is wonderful , however , so I shall look forward to see how it improves next week .
Ko-Ko's Haunted House was another fascinating live action / cartoon hybrid from Max Fleischer	This was another entry I found on Saturday Morning Blog that was focused on Halloween . In this Max Fleischer-Inkwell Imps episode , we see Max and another cartoonist next to him ( probably his brother Dave ) at the drawing board with the other artist stealing Max's inkwell . That inkwell becomes a big house ( well , big enough for the board ) that Ko-Ko and his dog Fitz go into . They encounter several ghosts and skeletons ( many of those in chalk white drawings on black paper-supposedly construction ) . Plenty of weird gags abound like seeing a tiny ghost using a pickaxe on Fitz ' tail or a person being human on the back and skeletal on the front ! Then there's some statues moving that scares the other cartoonist at the end that makes Max laugh . The print I saw on YouTube wasn't in great condition and the score that was picked seemed a little cheery . Despite that , Ko-Ko's Haunted House is well worth a look .
Beim Fotografen was another " nudie " made by Austria's Johann Schwarzer	Once again on the Europa Film Treasures blog , I discovered another " nudie " from the silent era made by Austrian Johann Schwarzer . In this one , a photographer has a studio in which he has women come in and pose in the nude with occasional clothing . Then we see male customers come in and watch the results ( with inserts of many of those posed pictures provided ) just before a previous customer who refused to take off her clothes busts them all with the police in tow . The end . The last scene was pretty funny even now and I could have swore that woman who barged in was smiling as they all got out of the frame ! With all that said , I highly recommend Beim Fotografen to anyone curious about adult film entertainment from Europe during the silent era .
This Hollywood on Parade short was a fascinating obscure item for me	I recently discovered the Matinée at the Bijou blog which is about the vintage movie theatre programs from the ' 30s and ' 40s as presented on a two-hour program uninterrupted by modern commercials as revived on PBS . Among the rare shorts presented there was this Hollywood newsreel from Paramount introduced by singer Cliff Edwards on ukulele warbling the theme song . He's best known now as the voice of Jiminy Cricket on Walt Disney's Pinocchio but was just a song-and-dance man during this time . Among the items : Jean Harlow learns golf , and several stars go to the horse races : William Powell and his then-wife Carole Lombard , the comedy team of Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey , Polly Moran , Joan and Constance Bennett , and Mexican star Raquel Torres . Cliff appears in between these segments and gets interrupted by a Mexican band singing the praises of another star of their country-Lupe Velez-as we see a film clip of her dancing with someone . Then they and Edwards join in for the theme finale as the short ends . This was another fascinating obscure item from back in the day that sustained my interest throughout . Well worth seeing for anyone interested in this sort of thing .
Coraline was an interesting , if not truly thrilling , suspenseful stop-motion animated film	With Henry Selick as the director , you know , the man behind Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas , I expected a special treat when I watched Coraline especially in 3-D . Don't get me wrong , I did like the images that were presented throughout the movie in the rare stop-motion animation style in an era where everything else that's animated is usually done by computer . And there were interesting characters that made one want to get involved for the whole picture . It's just that after a while , there seemed more style and not enough substance to really keep you involved in the story with your eyes and ears thinking awesome the whole time but your heart wondering if there could have been more to the characterizations . In fact , since this was based on a novel , I'm sure there were some cuts that had to be made to make a certain running time . But like I said , while there wasn't enough intensity to make this truly thrilling , Coroline still was pretty exciting at certain points and many young children watching this will not get bored when the climax comes . So on that note , I am recommending Coroline for animation buffs and anyone who doesn't mind if their under-12 children holds on to them for a while . . .
Making a Living is a very interesting debut for Charlie Chaplin	In Making a Living , Charlie Chaplin's film debut , he is not yet dressed as The Little Tramp . Instead , he sports a monocle , top hat , dapper suit , and a more drooping mustache . And he's basically more of a swindler than a gentleman with his penchant for stealing another person's credit ( in this one , he sees someone take a picture of a car accident and takes the camera to pass the picture as his own in the newspaper building ) . Still , the fight scenes are pretty hilarious especially when Chaplin uses his umbrella to hold back his tormentor ! And the last scene when they end up on a train car should tell you how actors seemed more willing to perform their own stunts then than now . So , on that note this is still worth a look for any fans of Chaplin and silent comedy history .
Gallopin ' Gals is an interesting early Hanna-Barbera cartoon short sans Tom and Jerry	This is one of those rare MGM / Hanna-Barbera cartoon shorts that doesn't involve Tom and Jerry . In Gallopin ' Gals , all the racehorses are female who dress in the fashions of the day gossiping about some of the other female racehorses behind their back . One female horse who's all alone is named Maggie who's shy and has hay fever . She has yet to win a race . Many witty lines about makeup and men horses abound as an announcer introduces many of them during this six-minute animated short . If you're familiar with many of these vintage cartoons from the ' 40s , you'll probably guess what happens here when the race is over . So on that note , I'll just say Gallopin ' Gals is worth a look for animation fans of William Hanna and Joseph Barbera .
Makin ' ' em Move is interesting early Van Beuren	Makin ' ' em Move takes us inside an animation studio where we see one animator draw a head , the next one draw a foot , and next one a hand , etc . Someone records music on the soundtrack by putting a record needle on the edge of the film while the band plays . Another animator draws various model poses then flips the drawings to see her dance . And a live human camera records these drawings as they are flipped . Then we see the finished product as the audience watches a melodrama with the boy's girl taken by villain to be sawed , only girl escapes by moving to front with legs on log as her arms are tied up ! As movie ends , the boy and girl take a bow to applause while the villain , who's been booed and hissed all through gets " thrashed " as the audience attacks the screen which gets destroyed ! There are some good gags such as the animal animators getting blown as the musicians are playing real loud but since this is a 30's musical cartoon , nothing hilarious . Worth seeing for an early Van Beuren , however .
Beach Blanket Bingo was a slightly better Frankie-Annette movie than Bikini Beach	Having previously seen Bikini Beach and found it very silly , I partly dreaded wondering if Beach Blanket Bingo was going to be the exact same way . While there are plenty of similarities , there were some differences that I appreciated like seeing Annette actually deciding to go skydiving with Frankie instead of trying to talk him out of it like she tried to in BB when it was about drag racing and also that Frankie , while initially not wanting Dee Dee ( Annette's character ) to do such a dangerous stunt , liked her even more when she did . Also , Jody McCrea's Bonehead-who was too stupid for my tastes in BB-is quite touching here with his romance with the mermaid Lorelei ( Marta Kristen ) . I especially found funny the way he measured her body for a dress and the way she said , " Do it again ! " There's also some amusing physical bits from Buster Keaton , some witty lines from Paul Lynde , another nice song from Donna Loren , a couple of good duets from Frankie and Annette , a pretty good solo from Frankie ( though I wonder why Annette didn't have one this time around ) , and a charming number from Harvey Lembeck as Eric Von Zipper with his rat gang . Lembeck himself is hit-or-miss with his shtick though Timothy Carey provides some hilarity as occasional nemeses , South Dakota Slim . Then there's Linda Evans as singer Sugar Kane ( did writer / director William Asher intentionally steal that name from Marilyn Monroe's character in Some Like it Hot ? ) . Her innocent sexiness comes through in each of her scenes especially when she gets " kidnapped " by Von Zipper and says " Marvey " when he teaches her to play pool ( Puss and Boots also provide some amusement when they make fun of her ) . And her mouthing the singing of Robin Ward sure fooled me ! That said , Beach Blanket Bingo is only slightly better than Bikini Beach as once again , Don Rickles seems wasted here even when he's allowed to do a brief insult act in front of Frankie and the gang . Deborah Walley faking a rape was also pretty tastless here . And the speeded-up chase at the end is only slightly more amusing here due to Keaton and some water gags done on Lembeck . And I wish the Bonehead / Lorelei romance had ended like Splash but I guess that wasn't to be since Bonehead would appear in another sequel . All that said , I enjoyed Beach Blanket Bingo a little more than Bikini Beach and seeing Buster and dancer Bobbi Shaw at the end with some other girls doing their moves marked a very cute way to end this silly A . I . P . beach movie musical . . .
Japoteurs is another World War II era Superman cartoon	Despite some racism , Japoteurs is another pretty good Superman cartoon . Clark and Lois are invited to inspect a new bomber . A Japanese spy has stowed away in one of the bombs . Lois , having stayed on after everyone left , informs the control tower . The enemy spy manages to sabotage opponent by bombing it . Clark turns into Superman and quickly manages to save Lois from being ejected before defeating spy after spy destroys instrument panel . Supes then flies Lois to safety before going to plane's head and slowing its rough landing ( just like he did in the recent Superman Returns ) . All is well in the world again as Clark and Lois ride on an amusement park plane . . . Like I said , the pidgin English spoken by the Japanese spy borders on the offensive but worth a look for anyone interested in World War II propaganda . Or for anyone interested in all things Superman .
This early De Forest Phonofilm is a worthy look of the first presidential speech on film	Just discovered on Internet Archive this Lee De Forest Phonofilm of the first time a U . S . president had spoken in a moving picture . The crux of Calvin Coolidge's four minute speech seems to be how the people would benefit more working for themselves than for the government ( i . e . paying less taxes ) . As you can see from the title , he's speaking from the lawns of the White House . He does this , with glasses on , reading from a prepared sheet he's holding . He then starts to leave as the film fades . All I can say is this was a pretty fascinating document to watch of an important figure embarking on a new medium for the first time with no slick production values at his disposal , just him reading off a piece of paper his views of the current condition of the country . For anyone interested in both early sound film and U . S . presidential history , President Coolidge , Taken on the White House Grounds is definitely worth a look .
Humorous Phases of Funny Faces is a historically interesting early animation effort	I don't think there's anything more about this pioneering animation effort that hasn't already been said before by many of the other reviewers except maybe only the very young who haven't been exposed to cartoons previously would find this the most charming thing they have ever seen yet ! Certainly we all recognize how primitive these chalk drawings are now having been exposed to Disney , The Simpsons , hell , even Beavis and Butthead is more sophisticated than this short Humorous Phases of Funny Faces ! That said , anyone with an interest in animation's history should watch this at least once to see where it all began . . .
The Alphabet is another weird early Lynch short that showcases his uniqueness	Just saw this , another weird short directed by David Lynch early in his career , on YouTube . In it , you hear kids saying loudly in unison , " A-B-C ! A-B-C ! " Then there are some animation that turns bizarre like when a tube gives birth to a couple of A's as you hear a baby crying . Then there's this woman ( played by Peggy Lynch , David's first wife ) who recites the alphabet singing who suddenly bleeds through her nose after she's done . Oh , and it's dark and she's in her bed the whole time . The end . There are some other bizarre things here but I'll just leave you to search this on YouTube . After all that , I'll say this for David Lynch : He's certainly like no one else on film !
This brief Buffalo Dance from the kinetoscope of Edison was a fascinating find on Internet Archive	Well , here's another early film from The Edison Company that depicts something that was popular during that time . In this case , it's the " Buffalo Dance " as we see three American Indians dancing in the Black Maria studio seemingly conscious of being on camera the whole time while two other of their tribe are playing instruments-drums-as accompaniment . They're all from " Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show " , the one chronicled in Irving Berlin's Broadway show and movie Annie Get Your Gun where Annie Oakley and Frank Butler fight and fall in love . Since this is only a few seconds , my rating is mainly based on how fascinating a document this was and how audiences might have reacted when they watched this on their kinetoscopes-those peepshow machines that you twirl on one side that are probably still available for viewing at Walt Disney World for a penny . I just found this on Internet Archive . Probably the earliest thing I've reviewed here on IMDb .
Third episode of " Back to You " is funny if bland	Marsh mentions in his sports segment that a Steelers player had spent some time with a model . He then mentions that he'd like to switch places with one of them for 3 hours . He then says he meant with the football player . Chuck goes to a restaurant that happens to already have seated Kelly and daughter Gracie . Gracie invites Chuck to sit with them which becomes awkward with Kelly but fun for Gracie . Montana's less than enthusiastic performance on air was the result of her breakup with the player Marsh mentioned so news director Ryan , who has a crush on her , tries to cheer her up before the next newscast . And Marsh tries to prepare Gary for a weekend anchor spot . . . Many funny moments happen from the synopsis I just described like an audition tape of Gary's that's pretty cheesy or Marsh's failing attempts to get a more than lethargic audition performance from him . There's also some sweet moments from Ryan and Montana . As for the restaurant performance between Chuck , Kelly , and Gracie . . . well , I loved the drinking game between Gracie and Chuck but it was mostly blah otherwise . Still , I'm willing to give this show a pass since I've always loved Kelsey Grammar from all the years as Fraiser Crane . Now if only the ratings could improve from fourth place on Fox . . .
Chew Chew Baby is one Famous Studios cartoon that should probably have a " parental guidance " caution	Just saw on the Something Old , Something New blog this Famous Studios Noveltoon , Chew Chew Baby ( not to be confused with the same-named Woody Woodpecker cartoon ) . In this one , a hunter from Cincinatti encounters a little pygmy in a jungle , takes his picture , and tells him to look him up if he ever goes to his hometown . He does and , oh , what a surprise he pulls on him . . . The author of the blog I just mentioned says this traumatized him as a kid and he's had no desire to see this again . Having now watched this as linked from YouTube , I must say I was mostly amused by the bizarre chomping of this small cannibal especially when he upchucked that mannequin ! Then there's a twist at the end that you'll probably guess right away just as it's about to happen that was a perfect end of this short . This probably wouldn't be suitable for anyone under-12 but anyone older than that who's seen The Silence of the Lambs and was entertained by that will probably enjoy this as well . P . S . Jackson " Bluto " Beck was the voice of the hunter and Jack " Popeye " Mercer was the dentist who was the first of the pygmy's victims .
The Romance of Transportation in Canada was an interesting Oscar-nominated animated short from up north	Produced by Tom Daly for the National Film Board of Canada , directed by Colin Low , narrated by Guy Glover with music by Eldon Rathburn , this animated short was nominated for an Oscar for Beat Short Subject , Cartoon , 1952 . It humorously tells the history of how transportation advanced from canoing to trains to automobiles and planes simultaneously . Rathburn's score and Glover's narration are perfect here . My favorite parts are seeing how " comfortable " passengers are when riding stagecoaches and the end when . . . oh , just watch the short . Not hilarious , just a little amusing but this short helped many animators reap some creative benefits and gave the NFB their quality reputation .
The Dancing Masters is pretty entertaining , if uneven , Laurel and Hardy comedy	In a remarkable coincidence , I found out in the morning paper that today is the day Oliver Hardy died 50 years ago . That made me want to watch The Dancing Masters right away since I checked that out of the library last Sunday . Since this was one of Hardy's and partner Laurel's latter-day features they made for , in Stan's words , " those Fox people " , there isn't much in the way of logic in the comic set pieces that are depicted here but for the most part the movie is pretty amusing with many laughs and smiles from me when the boys are by themselves or whenever they have someone new , like leading lady Trudy Marshall , participate in one of their routines . In fact , Ms . Marshall recounted to one L & H biographer how she told Stan and Ollie how she'd love to do comedy so they let her in the " Mixed Hats " routine in which she also incorporated plates . She became known as " One-Take Marshall " from that incident in her cherished memory ! Also appearing , without credit , was Robert Mitchum in one of his early thug roles , here talking a little fast for his usual character . Also , Margaret Dumont , usual Marx Brothers foil , provides some amusing moments . Alas , the movie falls apart at the end with a really illogical bus chase that mixes obvious back projection scenes with obvious model scenes to uneven results . Stan's line at the end does partially make up for that . So while The Dancing Masters is not an L & H classic , it's certainly worth a look for die-hard fans of the boys . Rest in eternal peace , Mr . Hardy .
The Fuz was another interesting Ralph Bakshi cartoon from Paramount Cartoon Studios	Just found this Ralph Bakshi-directed cartoon from Paramount Cartoon Studios on the Saturday Morning Blog as linked from Daily Motion . A lady is scared of a little furry person all covered in hair who seems harmless ( must be a comment on normal people fearing hippies since this short was made in the late ' 60s ) . Superblaster and his sidekick Bob overhear this as Superblaster tries to get out but the landlady stops him at the door to get her money . When the superhero tries to feign being broke , the landlady pummels him until he pays all the money . When he reaches the little furball , Superblaster keeps bumping into things while the furball just stands still and goes its own way . . . This being another Bakshi cartoon made in the waning days of Paramount's animation unit , this take on another possible variation of Ralph's " Mighty Heroes " from Terrytoons starts pretty funny enough with the hysterical woman's screams , her small husband , and that furball character and continues with Superblaster's inept ways of handling himself initially but it runs out of steam before the amusing surprise ending which redeems the short a bit . On that note , The Fuz is worth a look for Bakshi enthusiasts .
This original version of the Mexican Santa Claus movie is not bad despite some obvious flaws	Last year about this time , I reviewed the U . S . - dubbed version of this Mexican-made holiday movie as shown and commented on by Mike and the ' bots on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " . I remember thinking it was hilarious and give it 10 stars because of all the commenting by them . I've now seen the original version from its native country and I've got to say that despite the still creepy laughs from both Santa and especially his mechanical reindeer , that prancing devil , that machine with the red lips , and all those children from different countries illegally in labor under the red-suited man , this is a mostly touching tale of the wishes of a rich boy and a poor girl coming true because of Santa . With both the native language intact ( and the version I saw on YouTube also had no subtitles ) , and no edits for commercials , this wasn't a bad movie to watch during this holiday season . I did admit , however , to laughing at some wrong places simply because of my memory of " MST3K " or doing so because some scenes were so obviously broad that you're giggling not because it's naturally funny but because you know they want you to laugh so you do . I mean , who wouldn't laugh at the devil getting his butt shot at with an arrow ? So for all the reasons I cited , I'm giving this version of the Mexican Santa Claus a 6 .
The last part of Rosemary's Baby with Baldwin was the best one of " 30 Rock "	Liz reluctantly accepts a literally large check for " Follower of the Year " though she doesn't consider herself as such . She and Pete later go to a bookstore where she meets her writer idol who's named Rosemary ( Carrie Fisher ) . Rosemary gets hired as the guest writer who alienates everyone with her really far-out ideas . After meeting her , Jack wants her fired which Liz refuses to do . Liz gets fired as well as a result . Jenna accidentally burns Kenneth's jacket so she goes to the head page and tries to get another one for him only to get the head page to challenge Kenneth for a " Page-Off " in which they ask NBC trivia questions . Unfortunately , Pete calls this off after mentioning " there's no one at Conan's show right now " . Tracy has daddy issues since anything Jack tells him not to do , he does the opposite ( which explains Tracy's trying dogfighting ) . So Jack takes him to a psychiatrist but then Jack does several impersonations of Tracy's family ( including a father that sounds uncannily like Redd Foxx ) that Tracy responds to him instead and problem is now solved ( for now ) . After being sacked , Liz goes with Rosemary to her apartment and finds she lives alone with a rat and a train that runs by her window . Liz ' last straw comes when Rosemary proposes a movie about someone her age doing it with an 18-year-old that she believes with be a hit . As Liz leaves , Rosemary says , " Help me , Liz Lemon , you're my only hope ! " As Jack gives Liz her job back , he tells her about G . E . ' s problem with the " dog penis " sketch . Liz asks , " How about ' cat penis ' ? " . . . While this wasn't the normally funny show " 30 Rock " usually provides , I did think Alec's characterizations at the end were the most hilarious things I saw so far in this show . Reminds me how he got me in stitches whenever he was on " Saturday Night Live " ! Also wish the " Page-Off " got on a little longer . Carrie Fisher was a little uneven to me but love her references to both her marriage to a gay man and her famous Star Wars role of Princess Leia . Glad the ratings picked up this week . Will review again next week .
Comic Book Land is a pretty good Terrytoons short starring Gandy Goose and Sourpuss	This was a pretty entertaining Gandy Goose / Sourpuss cartoon that has the Goose and Cat dreaming of being inside of a comic book with some musical entertainment that reuses a female dancing mouse from another Terrytoon short . They also encounter a giant that steals all the comics . One of the characters that stars in these picture magazines is Mighty Mouse . Guess who saves them from the giant ? Not much that I found funny but it moves well and picks up in the last 3 minutes . I stumbled upon this on YouTube which has a lot more Mighty Mouse cartoons available there . If you're a Terrytoons enthusiast who's long seeked many of these vintage animated shorts , YouTube is probably the perfect place to go .
The Shanty Where Santy Claus Lives is enjoyable Merrie Melodies cartoon	This Hugh Harmon-Rudy Ising Merrie Melodies cartoon short produced by Leon Schlesinger for Warner Bros . tells the story of a poor boy who gets invited by Santa to go with him to his shanty to watch all the toys come to life . That's basically the plot of the story with some unfortunate blackface stereotypes in some scenes . Still mostly enjoyable with some entertaining musical sequences like the title song and a Kate Smith doll singing , " Shine on Harvest Moon " . It was during this period that the Merrie Melodies shorts ' purpose was to showcase a song that was published by the Warner Bros . publisher in each short with the showcased song's title the name of the film . That's the case here . Recommended for anyone who are Warner cartoon completists .
The Game Plan is a pretty good Disney family comedy for fans of The Rock	When I first saw the preview of The Rock in this formula Disney movie meant to attract families , I sorta cringed . My friend , on the other hand , who loves wrestlers and Disney stuff was very excited to see this one . So it was that we both decided to see this one after playing for several weeks . While watching during many parts of the first hour , I did feel a little wincing during many of the cutesy scenes between the lead character and the little girl who reveals herself as his daughter and thought many of the slapstick scenes were so obvious . But as the story went on and many entertaining set pieces like The Rock and the girl doing ballet in front of nearly all of his teammates , his singing his idol Elvis ' " Are You Lonesome Tonight ? " to her , or his teammates with the little girl playing super soaker with him were coming on , I was thoroughly enjoying myself to the point that I was thinking , " Hey , this is not so bad at all ! " So on that note , for anyone with families or who just want a good clean comedy , I highly recommended The Game Plan ! With sportscaster Marv Albert and Kyra Sedgwick who's a little amusing as The Rock's agent .
Society Party is another amusing episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy "	Sapphire wants a new dress for the party she and husband George " Kingfish " Stevens are invited to . The Kingfish gets it with the money he got selling his wife's fur coat to Andy for his girlfriend . Sapphire knew nothing about this and asks for the coat to go with the new dress . " Holy Mackerel ! " exclaims the Kingfish . . . This was more amusing that hilarious though I did like a later scene of Algonquin , who Andy's girlfriend had never seen before , attempting to rob the coat from her with Andy's knowledge and getting a hit on the head after revealing his " gun " as his finger ! Then there's a twist at the end that I won't reveal here . Like I said , this was a pretty amusing " Amos ' n ' Andy " episode .
Night at the Museum is an amusing enough family film	On Martin Luther King Day ( which this year actually fell on his birthday , January 15 ) , my friend and I , both on our off day , took in a matinée show of this Ben Stiller movie that had been No . 1 at the box office for the last three weeks . My friend had also wanted to take his nephew but the nephew had already seen it and he rarely sees something more than once . We both enjoyed it though I have to admit it does get a little silly some in the night museum scenes with nary any real laughs . The funnest lines and performance comes from Mickey Rooney when we first see him and he gives Stiller an attitude on his first day as a night watchman . There's also some funny slapstick scenes involving Stiller even before he gets his new job . Surprisingly , the same can't be said about Dick Van Dyke , usually known for his physical antics though it was nice to see him and Rooney together again since The Comic in 1969 . Also pretty good were Owen Wilson , Ricky Gervais , and as Teddy Roosevelt , Robin Williams , more subdued than usual . Also appearing were Kim Raver from " 24 " and " The Nine " playing Ben's ex-wife and the stunning Carla Gugino as the museum tour guide who seemed like a possible love interest for Stiller ( maybe that would be explored more if there were a sequel ) . So , in summation , I found the beginning pretty funny , the middle uneven , and the end mostly enjoyable with a pretty good mix of laughs , heart , and wonderment that the whole family can enjoy . And stay for some of the closing credits for some wonderful extra scenes with Rooney , Van Dyke , and Bill Cobbs . Also look for Stiller's mom , Anne Meara , as a woman trying to get Ben a job .
Policy and Pie is an interesting Katzenjammer Kids cartoon from silent era	Let me mention some gags that haven't been discussed yet : After the Captain finds the black cat under his hat on the floor after the hat moved , he hits the cat with a brush at the exact time Mama's flour in her pie hits her and makes her white ! Like the others here , I loved it when the cat rose from the dough and-staying white-went to the saucer of milk that conveniently happened to be there and drank it as if it was his all along . I also loved the frog in the pond balancing the mushroom on his webbed foot impressing the other frogs in his pond . The only real problem here is that Hans and Franz-the Katzenjammer kids-don't have any contact with the Captain or Mama til the end and that it ends before they run from what I'm sure would be another comeuppance from the Captain . So to anyone who's curious about silent cartoons , I'd recommended Policy and Pie .
The Chinchilla Business is an amusing final episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy "	Sapphire's mother won't move out of her daughter and husband George " Kingfish " Stevens ' house unless she gets the $50 owed by her son-in-law . When he hears Andy mentioning trying to buy his girlfriend a fur coat for that amount since that's all he has , the Kingfish offers to take that money in exchange for Andy's going in the chinchilla business of making one from them . Then he gets Algonquin to get a couple of rabbits to pass off to Andy as chinchillas . . . This being the final episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy " , it's a shame the controversy over the character portrayals have carried to this day since compared to today's depiction of pimps and other street thugs , the characters here are less offensive in comparison . Anyway , this wasn't as funny as previous episodes I've just seen the day before but it's amusing enough . Nice final look at a show created on radio by writers / actors Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll nearly 23 years before .
Educational short Shy Guy is interesting as the debuts of Dick York and narrator Mike Wallace	Just found this obscure educational short on Internet Archive . It marked the film debuts of actor Dick York-the original Darren Stevens on " Bewitched " - when he was just 19 and narrator Mike Wallace-later to be best known as a moderator on " 60 Minutes " but was just a radio / TV announcer during this film's shooting time . Mr . York plays a high school student who's new at his place of learning and who spends most of his time fixing his radio at home when he's not wandering around the school's halls observing fellow students he's awkward around . His father gives him some advice and when one of those fellow classmates motions him to a table at the drugstore hangout , Phil ( York's character ) comes around and starts feeling sociable . Wallace makes the short's points at the end but he's not the only off-screen voice I heard here since the Internet Archive version had another one that made snarky comments throughout ala Joel / Mike and the ' bots on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " . These were quite hilarious and offset whatever boring parts that threatened to dominate with the partially stilted dialogue courtesy of the script and many of the performances though Mr . York acquits himself nicely here with his natural presence . Since he's young here , he does sound a bit different than his voice on the later sitcom he's best known for . For all that , Shy Guy is worth a look for anyone curious about this sort of thing .
Flip's Circus is a jumbled mess of fragments from Winsor McCay	From what I saw on Google Video , this seemed to be another Winsor McCay project that he never got to completing since on the title it says in parentheses " 1918-21 " . Anyway , here are the contents : Flip is balancing his hat on his face while leaning forwards and backwards . He eventually falls face forward . Flip opens the tent flap to reveal a lot of large animals behind him . A large animal creature-I have no idea what it is-comes out and starts to interact with Flip . Flip keeps hitting him . Flip puts his head in the animal's mouth . At one point , the animal swallows him as we see moving bumps on the stomach . He then spits him back out ! And in a couple of scenes , a car comes by with the driver communicating with Flip via a chalk board that keeps appearing throughout the short . That's all I remember of that . Fascinating to watch but because of the unevenness of the sequences , I'd only recommended this to McCay enthusiasts .
The Dream Kids is another Fox and Crow cartoon worth a look	In The Dream Kids , the Crow is suffering a long winter's night along in the blizzard . Then he notices a house and invites himself in . The Fox who was reading peacefully until then quickly sends the Crow to what he says is the bedroom but is actually back outside as the door gets slammed on Crow . Crow quickly finds a Dream Book which says that foxes are afraid of barking dogs . So the Crow impersonates a barking dog that scares the Fox to jump on the ceiling where he sees the Crow with an inflatable seahorse who is asked by Fox what he is . " I'm your nightmare . Huh-huh-huh-huh , " comes the reply whose voice sounds like Goofy ( but probably not Pinto Colvig ) . Crow then blows his trumpet as the Fox says , " Don't shoot ! " Too late as everything explodes . Crow is then sitting down as he says to Fox , " What you need to get rid of your nightmares is some companionship , " but the Fox still throws him out . Later on , Fox dreams of a beautiful fox lady in a dress who starts to kiss him as the Crow breaks the window and convinces him he's still dreaming as Crow is now in band uniform playing drums and giving a note from dream girl to meet her under the cheery tree as Fox obeys and Crow now has the bed to himself ! When the same dream girl appears before the Crow in bed , the Fox witnessing this gets jealous and confronts dream girl only to be told by her in a Mae West impression that she's in Crow's dream ( and remember she's a literal fox ! ) . Fox , even more jealous now , nails Crow's feet down , brings train tracks on him and has train go through when all is left afterwards is a shirt as Fox then mourns Crow's death . But then another train goes through with Fox now down and inside is the Crow holding hands with the foxy lady ! ( Yes , I just said that with apologies to Jimi Hendrix ! ) . . . A little confusing with the way the dreams is handled at the end but a pretty funny short nonetheless . Loved the sequence with the Crow riding the inflatable seahorse and with funny voice and laugh that went with it . Worth a look for anyone interested in Columbia cartoons starring the Fox and Crow .
All's Well is a pretty amusing Gabby entry for Fleischer Studios	Just saw this-the third Fleischer cartoon featuring Gabby from the Gulliver's Travels animated feature-on Mark Evanier's site . This pretty amusing short has the leading character singing the title song that originally appeared in his feature debut I just mentioned when he encounters a carriage with a baby in it ( where are his parents ? ) . For the rest of the short , Gabby tries-and mostly fails-to diaper this baby who keeps getting one step ahead of him . Like I said , pretty amusing if not hilarious short with good animation throughout . Pinto " Goofy " Colvig is Gabby's voice . Mainly recommended for any Fleischer completists out there .
This Charming Couple provides an interesting look at a divorced couple's early courtship	This was an educational short from the McGraw-Hill Company about a couple about to divorce as we flashback to their courtship as a young couple just enjoying themselves in the forest without a care in the world . He-Ken-is an aspiring novelist who teaches literature in college . She-Winnie-is an assistant to a dean who thinks her fiancée will be famous which might make her life more exciting . While they're attractive and seem to get along well , neither believes in compromise . In fact , Winnie thinks Ken's friends are snobs while Ken wonders if he can live up to his wife's ambitions of him . We also hear views-via voice-over-from Winnie's roommate and one of Ken's students of each , respectively . And Ken also has a hobby of recording folk artists in their natural environment such as an elder woman singer in the forest that brings to mind the real-life Alan Lomax who did such things . Then there's the marriage at the end that the narrator tells of why it's doomed when he emphasizes the personality differences between them . Perhaps a little dated because of the way it's filmed and scored but This Charming Couple does provide some insights of why not all marriages live " happily ever after " . Oh , and as a Louisiana resident , I have to note that " Ken " is from New Orleans . To anyone wanting to seek this out , This Charming Couple is on the Internet Archive site .
Title of Closer Than a Brother makes no sense in this Paul Terry cartoon	I'm not sure what the title has to do with the plot which is this : An alarm clock ( with arms and legs ) rings loudly to wake up a cat in pajamas . Cat gets up and dances to some music on his stereo . His head comes off , then goes back on during this sequence . He then shaves and makes pancakes at the same time ( he uses his tail to flip the pancakes ) . After eating , he kisses his girlfriend's picture before going to his job checking hens ' eggs under them . One who was missing turns up drunk but when the cat checks her out , she has more than a handful under her ! He then brings a large mobile empty egg box to a large row of slides on which one hen up above provides tons of eggs with this action repeating constantly with each large egg box . At this point , Farmer Al Falfa and his secretary-the cat's girlfriend-arrive . Cat kisses her while the farmer is sitting looking the other way . When Al Falfa catches them he shoos the cat but the cat then takes her away jump roping while the eggs are overflowing in one big box left alone . This gets the farmer angry as he banishes the cat from the premises and he scolds the secretary . Cat gets revenge as he rides on one of the egg boxes as he jumps down from way above , with the result of tons of eggs hitting Farmer Al Falfa as the cat and his girl escape from his anger . . . This was a silent Paul Terry cartoon I just discovered on YouTube among other silent cartoons from the same guy . Many of the gags are pretty amusing if primitive today . Worth a look for any animation fans especially those of Paul Terry .
Please Say Something was certainly something unusually compelling from animator David O'Reilly	This short , computer animated by David O'Reilly , was mentioned to me by Amid on Cartoon Brew as one that was given an award in one of those animation festivals . It depicts a mouse and a cat in a marriage that seems troubled and takes place in various times , past and future , that seems to be completely abstract concerning whether anything depicted in the entire 10-minute computer abstract designs are happening or not . The mouse is a writer so he , or maybe she since it's not too clear which gender is which animal , spends lots to times writing while the cat just walks to various places . There's also a hospital and a scarf that comes into play . Like I implied , not everything makes sense but by the end , you may get some inkling what is meant by all the random happenings depicted . So on that note , I'm giving Please Say Something a 6 . . .
This was a shortened version of " Our Gang " s Ten Years Old I reviewed from YouTube	This Hal Roach comedy short , Ten Years Old , is the fifty-eighth in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . As his leaving mother tells Joe she can't afford a cake , he resolves to make his own with help from baby sister Mildred and dog Pal . Lots of not-so-suitable stuff is put in like carrot tacks . When the cake is done , it's as big as the oven it was baked in ! Meanwhile , rich boy Jackie also has a birthday party that day and invites many of Joe's friends to come also . So the rest of the gang resolves to eat Jackie's fancy refreshments before heading to Joe's . When only Farina and little sister Jannie arrive at Joe's a little late , Joe confronts Jackie at his house before Jackie suggests he bring his cake . With that , the kids all eat the unusual ingredient-filled wonder that has a bar of soap in one slice . It all comes to a close at the gift giving when Farina gives a " kitten " - actually a skunk . . . This short that I saw on YouTube was truncated from a two-reeler ( usually 20 minutes ) to about 12 minutes with the split at the six-minute cut . Also , all inter-titles were removed so some of what I wrote in the synopsis came from the book " The Little Rascals : The Life and Times of Our Gang " by Leonard Maltin and Richard W . Bann . Pretty funny short with plenty of sight gags concerning the cake that keeps rising and squirting at the gangs faces . My favorite scene comes from the beginning when Joe and Mildred keep hitting each other with a cabinet door as they're preparing the cake . I just wish it was the completed version I'd seen especially since , once again , the poster did a very good job in adding the familiar LeRoy Shield " Little Rascals " score as performed by the Beau Hunks Orchestra . The director here was not regular Robert McGowan but his nephew Anthony Mack . His name is actually Robert Anthony McGowan with his uncle being Robert Francis . Mack is not considered as talented as his uncle but here at least , the gags are well filmed . So on that note , I cautiously recommend Ten Years Old and hope another commentator will eventually review a complete version on IMDb .
Paint Your Wagon is an enjoyably uneven musical starring Eastwood and Marvin	Paint Your Wagon is one of the last of the big-budget movie musicals made in the late ' 60s after the phenomenal success of The Sound of Music . Like most of them , this one is a bit overlong but there are good scenes and performances throughout including the three leads of Lee Marvin , Clint Eastwood , and Jean Seberg . As in the Sergio Leone westerns , Eastwood is not given a character name , at least not until the end , referred to only as " Pardner " which is funny when Seberg looks for her two husbands and and asks for Ben and " Pardner " ! Not bad singing from the two male leads with " Wanderin ' Star " a highlight for Marvin . Good support from Ray Walston and Herve Presnell who sings the most memorable song , " They Call the Wind Mariah " . Uneven in the beginning and end but the scenes after a family of farmers arrive are some of the movie's best especially after the older son goes with Marvin to No Name Town . Director Joshua Logan doesn't always keep things together but it's not entirely his fault since the story seems to clash the styles of Paddy Chayefsky and Alan Jay Lerner . Still worth a look for seeing Eastwood and Marvin in a musical .
Superbad is an uneven teen-sex comedy that still entertains	After about a month of playing theatres , I finally got to see Superbad with my friend after seeing the other movies that had come out that we wanted to see . My friend liked it though he thought it had too much profanity . I didn't have a problem with the language but I did think the funny stuff came in little doses between several scenes that dragged . I liked the performances of Jonah Hill , Michael Cera , and Chris Mintz-Plasse as the high school seniors trying to get laid two weeks before graduation as well as the slacker cops played by Bill Hader and the movie's co-writer Seth Rogen . But their performances weren't enough to make this a hilariously funny movie like I usually expect from producer Judd Apatow who had no hand in writing this movie like he had in his previously very funny directorial outings , The 40-Year-Old Virgin and Knocked Up . Still , despite its unevenness , Superbad does get points for making the main characters ' growing pains seem real and for getting the potential girlfriends of Hill and Cera not seem like such sluts . . .
See first feature comedy in Mack Sennett's Tillie's Punctured Romance	First off , I must mention that I may have seen an edited version of Tillie's Punctured Romance because in the print I saw , there was no film-within-a-film scene here . Also , the score picked for this version seemed suited more for a melodrama than the slapstick comedy that this surely is . Now , while I admit that some of the falls done by Marie Dressler seemed to be a little overdone , considering this was her first feature that can be excused and I found myself laughing pretty loud despite that . Charlie Chaplin also does nicely in the physical department which makes his jerk of a character a little easier to take . And Mabel Normand can take care of herself with all the slaps and kicks she gives to Charlie . I just wish the characterizations were more subtle and pacing was a little more subdued but I guess producer / director Mack Sennett didn't believe in that . For those performances , however , and those of Chester Conklin , Mack Swain , and many of the others who played the Keystone Kops at the end I recommend Tillie's Punctured Romance to any fan of silent movie comedies who are curious about this first feature film played for laughs .
Sadie Hawkin's Day marked the first time " Li'l Abner " was brought to the silver screen	Sadie Hawkin's Day was the first of five Columbia cartoons to feature Al Capp's comic strip creation , " Li'l Abner " . To anyone who doesn't know about the title's reason for being , here's an explanation : Ms . Hawkin was a homely girl whose father , being somewhat near-sighted , was puzzled why no one wanted to marry his , to him , pretty daughter . So he had a contest involving all the unmarried men running to avoid Sadie's clutches with the one caught by her " winning " her hand . Since then , this became an annual thing with many unmarried women attempting to catch a bachelor for her own . Abner , as always , is trying to avoid Daisy Mae from her catching him ( though I find myself wondering why as she's quite a looker who would be great in the hay ! ) . Anyone who's read the comic strip knows their eventual fate but it's fun watching Abner and Daisy Mae , and many of the other contestants , running around like marathon runners trying to avoid / catch each other . This was a nice start for the short-lived series though I'm sure even then there were some limitations that prevented a long run for this comic-to-screen translation . Still , for all that , Sadie Hawkin's Day is worth a look for " Li'l Abner " fans as well as those interested in Columbia Pictures animation .
Vanished : The Tunnel is confusing but still intriguing	Last week , we found out the senator's missing wife , Sara Collins , was also missing 12 years before by a guy in a bar who saw her picture on television and recognized her as Nikki Johnson , a woman he had planned to marry at the time . There was also another woman named Amanda who was also missing several years back but just turned up dead . She was the wife of a former mayor who , because he has some secrets to hide , commits suicide in front of the FBI agent investigating Collins disappearance . The senator's daughter confronts boyfriend about his bloody sweatshirt . Her brother has been communicating with their birth mother by E-mail which the FBI now knows about . A search in a tunnel for Sara has turned up nothing but it's at the same tunnel that the bar guy shows up to give female tabloid reporter an envelope that proves Sara is not her real name . . . Part of this episode confused me with the various twists that seem to come out of nowhere and I still find myself wishing Ming-Na had more to do . Still , there's enough to keep me watching and hoping that what comes will eventually make a lot more sense .
Fatty Joins the Force has some amusing slapstick touches	Before I begin the review , I'd like to note that Dot Farley plays Fatty's wife here and that Edgar Kennedy played a cop in the beginning of this short . I'm noting this because Farley and Kennedy would later team up in a series of shorts for RKO in the forties in which Dot would portray Edgar's mother-in-law . With that out of the way , let me say this was a pretty amusing short in which Fatty joins the police force after saving the commissioner's pre-teen daughter from drowning in a lake . Now in uniform , he finds he's not so respected when he runs afoul of some teen boys who hit him on the face with mud pies and then take his clothes off when he goes for a swim . Cops find his uniform and think he is dead while Fatty , in just long underwear , attracts unwanted attention from ladies who call for help to other cops who arrest him . It all goes downhill from there . . . Pretty amusing slapstick involving the teen boys , other policemen , and subsequent humiliation from his " mourners " . Old hat today but worth a look for silent movie comedy fans .
The Male Man was another interesting Max Fleischer cartoon	Just found this obscure Max Fleischer cartoon on the Uncle John's Crazy Town blog . The author of it claims this is the greatest cartoon ever made . Well , like most Fleischer cartoons from the early ' 30s , there are lots of stream-of-conscious gags here . They are related by Bimbo's adventures as a mailman . Among the gags I liked : Seeing the face of a stamp lick his sticky bottom ( of the stamp ! ) on the envelope , having the envelope given to Bimbo by some skeletal ghouls ( don't ask ! ) enlarge as he keeps walking , and seeing a silhouette of a dancing lady underwater ( again don't ask ! ) which is revealed to be an octopus's legs ! Not too many funny gags other than those I just mentioned . So while I don't think this was the greatest cartoon ever , The Male Man still provides some amusement for a Fleischer cartoon .
I saw Quack-a-Doodle-Doo as a recent tribute to the departed Sid Raymond	In honor of the recent death of Sid Raymond , the voice of Baby Huey , Mark Evanier showed Huey's debut cartoon on his website . Huey's mother had been so desperate to have a child that she took a lot more than the prescribed amount of pills to induce pregnancy ( which only recommends one per day ) . So is born the enormously huge character that would star in his own animated series for theatrical company Famous Studios throughout the ' 50s . As in subsequent entries , Huey creates well-meaning chaos wherever he goes causing him and his mother to be banished from society . But then a fox comes and Huey , not knowing what he's dealing with , manages to defeat him with his own brand of " playtime " that exasperates his opponent . So Huey and his mom gets a welcome parade in their honor . The end . This is my second viewing of a Baby Huey cartoon and I'm still a little amused though I can see the creator's reliance on formula that usually marks a series blandness that also marked Famous ' other short series like Casper and especially , Popeye the Sailor . Still , undiscriminating kids should still be amused . . .
Cecil B . DeMille's The Virginian is interesting early silent	Cecil B . DeMille had made his film directing debut with The Squaw Man ( first feature film ) the same year as the film discussed here . While still a little on the primitive side , this first film version of Owen Wister's novel The Virginian does move along at a brisk pace and has a couple of humorous scenes before the drama involving the title character's friend Steve and thief Trampas . The first involves Virginian's ( Dustin Farnum ) attempts to get a hotel bed by himself by sleeping next to someone and shaking his leg bothering the other bed mates . The next one involves the title character and Steve switching babies in a separate bedroom from the parents celebrating in the dance hall . There's also a surprising scene where after Virginian hangs Steve , teacher Molly's schoolkids nearly reenact the event before she stops them . The person who plays Molly ( Winifred Kingston ) was married to Farnum in real life from 1924 until his death in 1929 and Dustin Hoffman later revealed he was named after this silent cowboy actor . Remade a few more times with the best known being the talkie Gary Cooper one from 1929 . Worth a look for Cecil B . DeMille completists .
Flu Shot was an okay episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , Liz ' beach vacation is canceled so she decides to support her crew-who are all working despite their flu-and not take her shot since Dr . Spaceman ( Chris Parnell , welcome back ! ) is rationing them under Jack's orders . Jack himself is trying to get Elisa to go out on the town with him despite her other job taking care of an older man named Douglas Templeton ( George Bartenieft ) . And , under also sick Kenneth's suggestion , Tracy and Jenna resolve to get the crew some soup but go shopping instead . They then resolve to cure them with laughter and dress as clowns to cheer them up . . . I liked the reappearance of Spaceman especially when he told Jack to pull down his pants as he puts the shot in his arm and when Liz betrays her promise to not get her shot , he makes her dance which is comically lame here . Those scenes with that old man in a wheelchair going with Jack and Elisa on their date were also good for a few laughs . And it was a hoot hearing Kenneth speak French when he confronts Liz with her shot arm and she tells him in his sickened state that he's hallucinating and is speaking to his French mother . The only scenes that didn't work were the Tracy and Jenna ones which seemed to be the result of the writers desperate to get them something to do . Speaking of desperation , Scott Adsit must be wondering if anybody even remembers him in the cast since his second or third appearance this season in this episode was only about a couple of minutes long . Overall , Flu Shot was a little uneven episode of " 30 Rock " but Parnell's return merits this at least a 6 .
Swing ! was a pretty entertaining musical revue from Oscar Micheaux	This movie , Swing ! , is one of two directed by Oscar Micheaux that's included in the 3-DVD set called Black Entertainment in Film . It starts as a melodrama about a woman whose husband is cheating on her with another woman whose own husband threatens to kill any man she's with . After the fight that results , two months pass and the woman that was cheated on comes to Harlem to visit and live with a young former neighbor woman who gets her a job as a seamstress in a show produced by her boyfriend . The temperamental leading lady singer-who resembles the woman that stole the other lady's husband-is constantly late and almost sabotages the show when she breaks her leg while drunk . But all is saved when the cheated woman replaces her . . . There's other details of the plot but never mind since much of the dialogue is pretty stilted with many of the performances adequate . There are two , though , that stand out : Alec Lovejoy-who I've previously seen in the shorts St . Louis Blues and Black and Tan and in Edgar G . Ullmer's Moon Over Harlem-playing two roles . One as that jealous husband and the other as that man who hits his temperamental star wife after she gets out of hand . And Amanda Randolph ( credited here as Mandy ) who tells the cheated woman about who she saw with her husband in an attitude that seems to imply " Watch out , sucker ! " Both became veterans on film . Of the women I alluded in the plot line , both Cora Green as Mandy Jenkins and Hazel Diaz in her double role of Eloise Jackson and Cora Smith are not much as actresses but they both can warble a tune . In fact , it's mainly the musical performances that make Swing ! get a little lively after the first 15 minutes . Among those highlights : teen trumpeter Doli Armena blowing hot on two numbers , Miss Harris doing her sexy dance , The Tyler Twins-one on piano and another singing and tap dancing , two more dance numbers by a group of women , Diaz ' one number , and Green's two , one of which I recognized as " Bei Mir Bist di Schon " . Add Dorothy Van Engle as Mandy's young former neighbor friend Lena Powell and Carman Newsome as her producer boyfriend Ted Gregory and you've got Oscar Micheaux's feature of Swing ! that's long enough filler for an hour of the black audience's entertainment time . No great shakes , this movie is enjoyable enough on a historical level concerning both black filmmakers and the entertainers making a rare film appearance here .
The Insects ' Christmas is interesting early depiction of animated holiday season	The Insects ' Christmas is interesting in that this may be one of the earliest depictions of the winter holiday in animated form I've ever seen . Certainly of the stop-motion puppet version . The fact that Father Christmas invites both insects and frogs to the celebration shouldn't be surprising since filmmaker Ladislaw Starewicz made both The Cameraman's Revenge ( 1912 ) and The Frogs Who Wanted a King ( 1922 ) . Kids may by bored by both the silence and black-and-white photography but it's at least worth a look for animation enthusiasts and Starewicz completists . This and the other shorts I mentioned is available on Milsetone Film and Video's The Cameraman's Revenge and Other Fantastic Tales DVD distributed by Image Entertainment .
Curse of the Pink Panther was pretty entertaining despite no Sellers and the fate of his character here	Filmed right after Trail of the Pink Panther , Curse of the Pink Panther continues the storyline of finding both Chief Inspector Clouseau and the Pink Panther diamond . Since Dreyfus , however , would rather Clouseau was never found , he has someone from jail tell him how to fix it so a HAL-like computer finds the opposite of best detective in the world . That opposite would be Clifton Sleigh ( Ted Wass ) from New York City . Meanwhile , a Countess Chandra ( Joanna Lumley in her second consecutive Panther role ) has the diamond and , it seems , an affair with a certain police detective . . . All right , I'll just say this right now : I didn't like the way Clouseau ended up in this movie being an accomplice to the Pink Panther theft and changing his face as well . I can't believe this is the way he would have behaved considering his sworn oath to upload the law ( or luw ) . Having said that , I was very amused when he ended up looking like Roger Moore and how perfect was he when he did the Clouseau voice ! Okay , moving on-I wasn't crazy about Sleigh when they first showed him disguising as a hooker in New York . Then he showed up at a Chicago airport during a windy storm with his umbrella almost swept up in it and I laughed a little . What got me on his side was that hilarious scene with an inflatable woman provided by Balls ( Harvey Korman again ) taking place at an outside French restaurant with once again another hilarious performance by the versatile Graham Stark as a bored waiter who can't keep his eyes off of the doll and Sleigh's attempts at blowing her up . There was also a hilarious fight scene between Clifton , some gangsters led by Robert Loggia , and a woman he just met named Juleta Shane-real name Julie Morgan ( Leslie Ash ) who later tries to bed Sleigh . Oh , and Korman was only fitfully amusing as Balls here though I did like the way he said " ca-ca " . And besides David Niven and Capucine , it was nice to see Robert Wagner also show up as Niven's nephew George Lytton who's also from The original Pink Panther . One more appearance I was pleasantly surprised by was that of Pat Corley-best known to me as Phil the bartender on " Murphy Brown " - as Sleigh's frustrated superior in New York . He sounded different here but I recognized him just the same . Herbert Lom as Dreyfus still provides some laughs but Burt Kwouk as Cato was mostly wasted here especially when he wrestles with the American Sleigh at the now-Clouseau Museum apartment . So I guess overall , I really enjoyed Curse of the Pink Panther despite the absence of Sellers and what Edwards did with his character . Oh , and I wasn't crazy about the animated beginning credit sequence from Marvel Productions this time around though as always , the Henry Mancini theme is way cool . One more note : This was Niven's final film appearance as well as the final Panther stint for Andre Maranne as Sgt . Francois Duval . Since this movie bombed ( or buumbed ) , you'd think Edwards was through with the Pink Panther series once and for all . Once again , you'd be wrong . P . S . Edwards ' stepdaughter Emma Walton is an angry hooker here and his son Geoffrey ( who also co-wrote the screenplay ) is the voice of the computer Aldous . Next up , Son of the Pink Panther . . .
The Fatal Note was an interesting animated intro to " The Little King "	In this , the initial animated version of comic strip artist Otto Soglow's " The Little King " , there's an outsider who seems to want to cause nothing but destruction in the palace but the childlike monarch and his dog do nothing but mischief on him . Loved the dolly on the round set of stairs that I remember from a later Van Beuren " Little King " cartoon called Pals ( or Christmas Night which became the title for a later home movie issued version ) . Pretty amusing , if not hilarious short for King Features ' mostly mute character . Recommend for animation fans of ' 30s talkie cartoons . I saw this on YouTube as linked from Matinée at the Bijou .
Ms . Applegate is enough for me on the " Samantha Who ? " pilot	As the pilot of " Samantha Who ? " opens , the intro of " Escape ( The Pina Colada Song ) " plays as we see a young woman in bed in a coma . Her mother ( Jean Smart ) has been calling " Extreme Homemaker " hoping to use her daughter's condition to get a new house . That daughter , Samantha ( Christina Applegate ) , wakes up with no memory of her previous life . She then gets told by many people like her former girlfriend from junior high , Dina ( Melissa McCarthy ) , her current girlfriend , Andrea ( Jennifer Esposito ) , and her boyfriend , Todd ( Barry Watson ) , how not-so-nice she was . So now Samantha is trying to find ways to not be THAT person as she moves back in her parent's home . . . Having discovered Ms . Applegate , like I'm sure many of you reading this have , on " Married . . . With Children " , many of you may be or not pleasantly surprised at how sweet she is after her amnesia and how convincingly mean she can still be as her old self . Loved her comic dithering at the AA meeting after finding out she was once an alcoholic . Jean Smart is probably the best of the supporting players in the pilot but both McCarthy and Esposito show some promise here as well . Not a great first episode but the show's premise and the presence of Ms . Applegate is enough for me to give this series a long leash to see where they go from here . I shall post next week so until then . . .
Frankenstein's Cat is an interesting early look at Terrytoons ' Mighty Mouse	When Mighty Mouse was first developed at Terrytoons , he was a much different character than the one who later had Pearl Pureheart and Oil Can Harry as supporting characters . In fact in many of them , he doesn't even appear until the last three minutes ! In this one , a community of mice and birds are living and playing peacefully until the arrival of the title character : a mechanical cat who wants to eat so he picks a bird to take to his castle . All of the bird's friends follow the victim there but many are given electrical shocks when they confront the cat . A mouse who lives in a supermarket hears a distress signal on his radio and , after eating Limburger cheese , turns himself into the costumed superhero Mighty Mouse ( though he was known as Super Mouse at the time ) . As he flies to the castle , Mighty fights and defeats the mechanical cat as the head falls off and the bird escapes making possible another happy ending . . . Action packed with some humorous touches like the cat's reflection in the water being scared by what he sees or Mighty talking in a Brooklyn accent demanding of the cat where the bird is . If the picture I saw on YouTube had better clarity , I'd say the colors would probably look bright and exciting . Worth a look for fans of Mighty Mouse or of any Terrytoons .
The Automobile Ride has an obnoxious Koko but it still has some charm	Max draws Koko on the drawing board . He then receives a call and leaves . Koko leaves after but not before taking some money from Max's wallet that he left behind . Max arrives to his date then comes back to his office to get his wallet . After recovering it , he drives with his date to get twelve gallons of gas . Koko arrives just as the pump is going and mischievously takes the hose from the car as the hose falls to the ground unknowingly to anyone else . Just as the wasted twelve gallons are up , Koko puts it back in the car before Max retrieves it ! He gets his wallet and finds his money gone so he excuses himself . After he gets some money from his staff and leaves again , the staff finds smoke coming from Max's closed desk ! After Max brings his car back , he finds Koko in his desk smoking a cigar as Koko asks , " How was your date , Boss ? " Although amusing , I couldn't find the point of Koko taking the gas pump from the car other than to play a joke on Max that has no payoff . Seeing the clown climbing a building must have been amusing enough for the astonished audience at the time but is old hat today . And Koko is a bit obnoxious to display any real charm here . Still , amusing enough to recommend to anyone interested in all things Max Fleischer .
Third to last Felix short is amusing	Forty Winks is the third to last Felix short made by the Pat Sullivan Studio . It starts with Felix conducting four other cats in a sing-along on the top of an apartment building . Two notes from the cats literally scratches the bald head of a neighbor . He wakes up furious and takes a bowling ball and knocks the cats out . The cats ignore him as Felix plays a flute with the other cats dancing . The flute notes now glide to the man's snoring mouth . The now awake furious neighbor takes a spray of either and aims them at the cats who quickly fall asleep except Felix who goes down the elevator which lands at a fireplace ! Felix gets out of the fireplace and finds a couch as he prepares to fall asleep . He gets awakened by a baby nearby who cries uncontrollably . Felix throws him his bottle which he swallows after drinking from it . Felix then spills a wine glass which turns into a trumpet . That and his flute calms the baby down and brings alive some toy soldiers who then take a toy cannon and sink the boat in the picture frame behind the baby ! The baby wants to play with toy cannon which Felix reluctantly agrees to . The baby hits Felix with eight cannons which become skate wheels that Felix uses to escape the house from . He then climbs the pole in the back yard to a clothes hanger with a pant that Felix prepares to sleep in . He's once again sound asleep until he dreams of a log getting sawed . That saw cuts the clothesline and Felix falls with the pants covering him while running . When he finally gets out , Felix kicks the pants ! He then comes to a doghouse that he once again tries to sleep in but gets chased out by its puppy owner . The cat blows through the chimney throwing and locking the dog out ! The dog cries causing a flood that takes the doghouse away . Felix climbs to the roof as the puppy swims to his home but Felix then takes two exclamation points above his head and uses them as a propeller to his tail with the roof as his wings ! Having escaped once again , Felix gets knocked by a cloud and once again falls . This time he ends up floating up and down while he hears snoring . It's a hippo who's blowing Felix while he's sleeping ! Felix once again falls asleep but suddenly the hippo stops snoring causing the cat to land in the hippo's mouth ! Hippo wakes up , spits Felix out , and chases him . Felix then runs to a cliff , takes a gun , and with way too many bullets , forms a bridge that the cat crosses to the other side . As he gets there , he tickles the hippo with the bullet bridge so hard , the laughing hippo causes his cliff to fall landing on a seesaw that knocks the other occupant , a kangaroo ( I think ! ) up to where Felix is . As Felix defeats the kangaroo , he pulls his nose and plays it like a violin ! He then throws him up and down until he resembles a cradle which Felix then proceeds to fall asleep in . Peace and quiet at last ! This short , while amusing , seems old hat both to the animators and the audiences who have watched Felix for eleven years now . More popular characters like Mickey Mouse and Betty Boop were entertaining audiences by this point . But Felix deserves a place in animation history as being the first character to really amuse people of all persuasions . As long as there are animation buffs who care about their history , Felix will live on in memory .
Alaska is an interesting early Walter Lantz Oswald cartoon with some material from Tex Avery	I discovered this rare Walter Lantz Oswald cartoon on a blog that was dedicated to the 100th birthday of Tex Avery whose milestone was sometime in late February . It concerns the lucky rabbit who was originally created by Walt Disney ( hence his resemblance to Mickey Mouse since he came before him ) looking for gold but soon becomes a gag fest with a singing waiter who ends his verses with someone " who cannot leave his mother " , a piano player who keeps chugging beer , and Oswald and his peg-leg buddy ( probably Peg-Leg Pete who eventually became Mickey's nemesis ) saying in unison " Pop Goes the Weasel " with the rabbit getting the better of this buddy after he keeps hitting him . Alaska was one of the early cartoons Avery had thought up gags for and they're pretty funny as presented here . Worth a look for any animation fans of Fred " Tex " Avery .
Cecil B . DeMille's The Affairs of Anatol is one of his interesting " affairs of the heart " silents	Checked this rare Cecil B . DeMille silent at my local library intrigued by the premise of seeing a Gloria Swanson silent movie in its entirety for the first time . Turns out she's sort of a supporting character since Anatol is actually a man played by Wallace Reid . He's Anatol , a . k . a . Tony , Spencer whose marriage to Vivian ( Swanson ) is constantly tested by his involvement in three other women : Emile Dixon ( Wanda Hawley ) , Annie Elliott ( Agnes Ayres ) , and Satan Synne ( Bebe Daniels ) . Emile is an old school friend of Tony's who's now in the company of middle aged rich man Gordon Bronson ( Theodore Roberts ) . Annie is the wife of country pastor Abner ( Monte Blue ) whose church money she unknowingly stole to buy a dress . Ms . Synne is a nightclub entertainer whose World War I veteran husband is enduring a long hospital stay . About Emile : Tony's just wasting his time trying to get her away from pearls which she loves and is too possessive with her on that front especially since he won't do the same about his wife's picture . And his breaking the furniture that HE bought ! Tsk , tsk . That segment's too long anyway , though there's some amusement with Raymond Hatton as a violin teacher . About Annie : I can't believe his kissing her after saving her from a drowning which conveniently happens as his wife shows up with a doctor . And it's obviously a pre-Code movie when Annie gets to keep the stolen money with her husband none the wiser ! Short enough in my book . About Satan : This was the most touching segment in the movie with Tony intending to really cheat on his wife ( not completely realizing vice versa on Vivian's part ) and then finding out the truth about Ms . Synne's husband's illness as he then decides to let her keep the $3000 as charity . Also , Polly Moran is briefly amusing as an orchestra leader . Also liked Elliot Dexter as Max Runyon , friend of the Spencers and Theodore Kosloff as Nazzer Singh , a hypnotist who temporarily casts Vivian under a spell . Not a great movie but it certainly has its merits and DeMille provides some great close-ups in the final segment with some wonderful color tints that took my breath away a little . How " happy " the ending is depends on one's view of how trusting the couple really is but it was satisfactory to my tastes . Worth at least a look for anyone interested in old movies . P . S . Ms . Swanson was born in the same town I was : Chicago , Ill . And the writer of the original story , Arthur Schnitzler , would also pen " Traumnovelle " which would be the source of Stanley Kubrick's final work , Eyes Wide Shut .
Blame It on Rio is a slightly , enjoyably sexy movie	Having originally recorded this movie , Blame It on Rio , a little more than 20 years ago on HBO , I finally got around to seeing it a few hours ago . I have to admit that the reason was to see some nudity of young women like those of Demi Moore and Michelle Johnson . Johnson certainly filled up nicely considering she was about 17 at the time while Moore seemed a little awkward with her hair covering her breasts up . Loved the way Ms . Johnson keeps teasing Michael Caine at the dinner table after they made love on the beach ! Also loved Caine's covering his naked self with sand when a couple who are acquaintances with him meet him there . Ms . Johnson does reveal her amateurish acting skills when she attempts to confess her affair with a middle-age man ( without IDing him ) to Caine's best friend and her father , Joseph Bologna , but maybe she's supposed to sound like that . Anyway , this was a leisurely sex-romantic-travelogue comedy with some witty lines and visual touches provided by co-writer Larry Gelbart and director Stanley Donen . Also making the most of her part is Valerie Harper as Caine's wife who's considering a divorce . All in all , not hilarious except in parts but pretty enjoyable especially when focused on Caine and Ms . Johnson . I'm getting aroused just thinking about them . . .
Imitation of Life ( 1934 ) brings worthy performances of Colbert , Beavers , and Washington	First , I have a question : What's with IMDb listing Dorothy Black playing Peola at age 35 ? This version I saw ends with her at 19 crying at her mother's funeral and still played by Fredi Washington . Was there an extra scene missing ? Anyway with that out of the way , I found this movie interesting with the relationship between Claudette Colbert and Louise Beavers being nearly equal as being more friends as opposed to boss / employee even though Delilah kept calling Bea , Miss Bea , to the end of her days . Those scenes were so interesting and that of Beavers and Washington more so especially their last confrontation when Delilah still wants to be called Mammy and not some white woman's parent title ( no offense to Bea , of course ) , that Bea's scenes with her potential husband ( Warren William ) and grown daughter ( Rochelle Hudson ) are sappy and a little melodramatic by comparison . I'd also like to praise the child , Sebie Handricks , that played Peola at age 4 . She was really good . Ned Sparks as Bea's business partner is amusing with his sour disposition though a little of him goes a long way . I do wonder how many of the people at Delilah's funeral were her friends and how many were simply Bea's that simply came at her request because of Delilah's request of wanting a big one . I also wonder about the trailer that played on the VHS tape before the movie that emphasized Beavers and Washington in still frames with critical notices of them that probably played in segregated black theatres and how the intended audience reacted when their parts were small compared to the white actors . Despite those mixed reactions , I still recommend Imitation of Life .
I Love You , Man was a reasonably amusing comedy for me	Let me admit up front right now that during some of the middle section of this movie , I partly fell asleep . So it's possible I felt a little underwhelmed watching I Love You , Man . That said , while I felt some of the scenes might have been underplayed and the pace wasn't as up as I'd like it to be , there were plenty of funny lines and scenes that I got reasonably entertained during most of what I managed to see . Stars Paul Rudd and Jason Segel are perfect together as a groom and his potential best man so they alone make the movie worth seeing . It's just that not enough seemed to be done to make the rest of the cast like Andy Samberg , Jane Curtin , J . K . Simmons , Jaime Pressly , and Jon Favreau really stand out though each have their moments . And leading lady Rashida Jones does well with what she has . So on that cautious note , I Love You , Man is at least worth a look .
Arthur Penn's Alice's Restaurant is a product of its time	Alice's Restaurant is a time capsule of the attitudes of young people during the late ' 60s as experienced by folk singer Arlo Guthrie and his friends like the married couple Ray and Alice Brock , played here by James Broderick ( Mathew Broderick's father ) and Pat Quinn . Very much of its time , Arthur Penn's film tries to mix the humorous with the dramatic with uneven results . Some of the most touching scenes are those of Arlo with his father , folk singer Woody Guthrie ( played here by Joseph Boley ) and those of Ray and Alice after the drug death of a friend . There's also a nice musical duet with Woody's friend Pete Seeger and Arlo in Woody's hospital room . The most funny scene was the one concerning Arlo's attempts to get more urine for the draft board . Look for Shelley Plimpton , who had married Keith Carradine and gave him a daughter , actress Martha Plimpton , as Reenie who is a 15-year old girl who tries to seduce Arlo and M . Emmett Walsh as a Group W sergeant . Though nominated for Best Picture of 1969 , Alice's Restaurant seems dated now . Ray and Alice's remarriage at the end and the followup makes this one of the most bittersweet movies I've ever seen . . .
Dorothy Dandridge shines in her only number on " The Colgate Comedy Hour "	In continuing to mention African-Americans on film and television in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now at 1951 with singer Dorothy Dandridge making , according to co-host Jerry Lewis , her first television appearance on " The Colgate Comedy Hour " . She sings " Blow Out the Candle " . What a lovely voice ! This was her only appearance on that night's episode as well as that of tap dancers Bob and Eddie Mayo who appear in native costume for their jungle number . The other co-host , Dean Martin , sings " Solitaire " . Otherwise , it's mainly Dean and Jerry doing sketches on a museum dinosaur fossil , a start-in-show-biz segment with Jerry pretending to be a dummy with hilarious results , an escape-attempt-from-jail skit , and Jer lip-syncing to a record with mixed results before the finale with Martin and Lewis clowning with the pianist , also with mixed results , as they end with a wonderful tap dancing number . This being live television from November 4 , 1951 , there's some funny ad-libs that balances some of the not-so-funny stuff written by Norman Lear and Ed Simmons and Jerry's more frantic movements . Martin himself brings a somewhat relaxed vibe which bode well for his own variety show in the ' 60s after he split from Lewis . I watched this on a DVD collection of their ' 50s shows called " Colgate Comedy Classics " . If you're interested in Martin and Lewis ' early television work , that is as good a place to start . P . S . Vintage commercials from the Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Co . from the original NBC airing are included here .
Joan Davis is amusing in I Married Joan	Joan is going over her account with her husband who finds out she spent $600 on a pullover . He asks how she could spend so much on a sweater . She didn't . " I was stopped by a cop who told me to pull over ! " Husband is stopping Joan's account . After husband leaves for work , Joan and her aunt find a calender with a marking for a birthday so Joan plans to surprise her husband with a party . She goes to the court where her husband is judging to try to get some money from him . No dice . She then goes to a cheap dress shop where she sells a dress , after buying it , to another customer at half price before her husband calls to cut Joan's account there ! At home , Joan and aunt decorate house thinking husband won't be home until 9 : 30 because Joan called a friend of his for racquetball . Husband comes home early . Joan and aunt take decorations down . She convinces husband to go to a hockey game thinking he doesn't really like hockey , he'll want to go home when she tells him to . Turns out he's enjoying the game so they stay past 9 : 30 . At home , Joan finds everyone has left so she explains about the calender which husband says was a plan for her surprise birthday party as guests file in with her cake ! This is a silly sitcom premise make palatable by Joan Davis ' performance of milking whatever humor she can out of the contrivances whether arguing with her husband about money while in court with his client doing the same thing , talking a customer into taking her dress at half price , or convincing her husband to take her out by stomping and flinging her arms ! Jim Backus provides good support as her husband . This is the first episode I've seen on Family Net so I hope to see better ones down the road . It wasn't bad as a start , however .
Tod Browning's Freaks is a fascinatingly unique early talkie	Freaks is one of the most fascinating movies made during the early talkie era . Director Tod Browning got the green light from MGM after his success with Dracula from Universal the year before . One of the little men is infatuated with the tall female trapeze artist making his fellow little woman a little jealous . The tall trapeze woman takes a shine on him after discovering he stands to inherit some money . She hopes to marry and then eventually poison him . When the other little people find out , they plot revenge . While the fate of the tall woman lends this film some horror elements , this seems mainly to be a melodrama about a gold digger trying to get away with murder only with a little person as the victim . Fascinating to watch so many " freaks " getting along and having fun with some regular-looking people in a spirit of community . While not a masterpiece , Freaks is certainly worth a look for its non-judgmental attitude toward people who look different from " conventional " folks .
Hiroshima Maiden is subtle family drama about a serious subject	In 1955 , an American family takes in a female teenage survivor of Hiroshima . Of the two male children , the adolescent older one is hesitant at first to greet her especially having previously played war games with his treehouse friends with the Japanese , whom they referred to as Japs , as the enemy . Johnny , the older son , tries to satisfy the curiously of himself and his friends by switching light off to see if Miyeko , the Hiroshima girl , glows in the dark , and attempts to take a picture of her to show them . Miyeko shows Johnny her pre-Hiroshima pic and her paper birds that she wants to make thousands of to remind people of the children of Hiroshima . Miyeko is in America for surgery of her half-burned face she suffered during bombing . Because this is a family drama with only a running time of 58 minutes , the prejudices that result with Miyeko's arrival is subtle but effective . Some goes for the performances though Richard Masur ( Johnny's dad Jim Bennett ) and Dennis Haskins ( bigoted neighbor Hal Latimer ) have an almost intense scene near the end . A previous reviewer mentioned what some of the players have done since this film , so I'll say that Stephen Dorff ( Johnny ) has recently been in Oliver Stone's World Trade Center and Haskins shortly after this became better known as Principal Belding in " Good Morning , Miss Bliss " and " Saved by the Bell " . And Tamyln Tomita ( Miyeko ) was in The Day after Tomorrow . I bought a DVD of Hiroshima Maiden at a church fair for $1 last Sunday because the subject matter interested me . Recommended for anyone interested in World War II history and its aftermath .
It's the Easter Beagle , Charlie Brown was a pretty amusing Peanuts special	While not as entertaining as many of the other Peanuts holiday specials ( Thanksgiving , Halloween , Christmas ) , there's still some amusing scenes that makes It's the Easter Beagle , Charlie Brown worth recommending . Like seeing Peppermint Patty get frustrated every time her friend Marcie cracks open the eggs ( to fry , waffle , or boil ) as Patty prepares to paint them . Or Snoopy botching some attempts at getting his bird friend Woodstock a bird house . Only a Peanuts cartoon would have a scene in a Discount Mart with a sign saying " Only 246 days till Christmas " with potential presents on sale ! Though while Linus ' belief in the Easter Beagle , unlike that of the Great Pumkin , comes true , isn't it a bit strange no one acknowledges that it's Snoopy doing the rounds ? And why is Schroeder's scene so brief here ? Otherwise , this was a pretty entertaining animated special with fine work , as always , by musician Vince Guaraldi on the score .
Blades of Glory is an amusing , at best , comedy	My friend was very excited to see this movie and since I was a fan of SNL and certainly of former cast member Will Ferrell , I was willing to come along on Blades of Glory's second day of opening . Too silly in the beginning , it picked up after Ferrell and Jon Heder started teaming up with Craig T . Nelson coaching . A subplot involving a rival brother-and-sister team played by real-life married couple Will Arnett and Amy Poehler and little sis Kate played by " The Office " star Jenna Fischer contributes to the most hilarious scene in the movie : A call to Kate from Heder's character in which each is coached to say certain double entendre lines that don't match their personalities . Amusing cameos by various skaters Nancy Kerrigan , Peggy Fleming , Dorothy Hamill , and Sasha Cohen partly makes the movie a little more tolerable than it really is though the funniest scenes come from Ferrell even though he seems to be trying a little harder than usual . Scott Hamilton and Jim Lamply also do well with deadpan lines as the announcers and when I read the credits , two of the stunt performers were Canadian Silver / Gold skaters David Pelletier and Jamie Sale . There's also an amusing scene between Ferrell and Fischer that plays sweet and a little sexual that almost-but not quite-crosses the line . I think I've said enough so I'll just say if you're willing to go with all the silliness , go ahead and watch . Just don't expect Mel Brooks or Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker hilarity .
Terror Is a Man was a fascinating Drive-In ' 50s fare from the Philippines	Just discovered this Philippine ( My parents ' native country ) - made horror movie here on IMDb as linked from Hulu . Despite the bland romantic trappings between the triangle of Francis Lederer , Richard Derr , and the buxom blonde from Denmark named Greta Thyssen , this was a pretty effective chiller during the last 30 minutes as effectively visualized by Gerardo de Leon with I'm sure help from producer Eddie Romero . There's also some nice work from the natives like Oscar Keesee as the villain , his son Peyton as the innocent boy , and stunning Lilia Duran as the other hired help . And then there's the creature played by Flory Carlos who spends most of the movie wrapped in bandages . His mummy-like performance gets effective treatment due to the music by Ariston Avelino . May be most effective to maybe to those 12 and under who haven't seen anything gory yet . Certainly the " buzzer " that warns of a 15-second " surgery " scene was nothing that shocked my senses ! So on that note , Terror Is a Man is worth a look for fans of old-fashioned Drive-In fare .
A Muppet Christmas : Letters to Santa was an entertainingly adequate special for this holiday season	With the month of December almost over , I finally decided to watch this Muppet Christmas special that I put off for the last two weeks . In summation , A Muppet Christmas : Letters to Santa is no great shakes compared to the classic " Muppet Show " that I enjoyed as a kid of the ' 70s but these creations of the late Jim Henson can still entertain like nobody's business and it was very nice to see the whole gang from that show together again . The songs by Muppet veteran Paul Williams were nicely done though only the Fozzie / Gonzo duet about wishing to be Santa seems like a future classic . The celebrity cameos are hit-or-miss but do provide some amusements especially that of Williams and Nathan Lane . I recognized the kid from that Disney movie that starred Dwayne " The Rock " Johnson . It's too bad that Jane Krakowski and Jesse Martin weren't utilized more for their musical talents . Still , if you love the Muppets , you'll be glad to see them in A Muppet Christmas : Letters to Santa .
Carter's Army ( or The Black Brigade ) is an interesting account of a World War II event	In commenting on African-Americans in film and television in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now at 1970 with the TV movie Carter's Army ( a . k . a . The Black Brigade which is the title on my double-sided $1 DVD which has Bill Cosby's To All My Friends on Shore on the other side ) . A racist white army captain played by Stephen Boyd is assigned to recruit several black men to guard a bridge that the Germans want to take over . Of course , he changes through the course of the movie . Robert Hooks is the Leutenant who has among his men : Moses Gunn , Glynn Turman , Billy Dee Williams , Rosie Grier , and Richard Pryor . Susan Oliver is the German lady who brings out the worst in Boyd after he sees Hooks plant her a kiss in thanking her for advice and compliments . The other men have some good scenes and lines before their fates are revealed . I was amused at some of the comedy between Grier and Pryor with Pryor making us wonder after a while what kind of man he really is . Co-written and produced by Aaron Spelling , he does what he can in presenting a compelling dramatization of a World War II event in less than 90 minutes with commercial breaks . Worth a look for both as a depiction of a historical event and in seeing Pryor and Williams before their roles in feature films like Lady Sings the Blues , Hit , and The Bingo Long Travelling All-Stars & Motor Kings .
Tchin-Chao : The Chinese Conjuror is interesting for Melies enthusiasts	Georges Melies is dressed as a Chinaman in front of a Chinese background . Under his umbrella is some lamps he hangs up as they appear . He then puts the umbrella over a small table on his right side and a dog appears . He turns the dog into a woman in a quick cut method . He uses his umbrella again and a male assistant appears . All are wearing Chinese makeup . Melies takes two big box covers over both tables and makes the woman go from one side to another . The covers of both are split open when all three at various times go through them . By this time , the woman fades from one table to the other . Then Georges covers the woman in a blanket and when he opens it up some chickens come out ! The other man and woman at this point come from backstage as they all bow out . I saw this ( which was mistakenly identified as Imperceptible Transmutations on the box but has the correct French title on screen ) and other Melies shorts in an Arte Video DVD collection called Melies the Magician in a segment called Melies Magic Show that also includes his most famous film : A Trip to the Moon . If you're interested in early silent movie special effects , then this short and other Melies films are most highly recommended .
I found this music video on atom . com	Just saw this music video at atom . com . It's basically a silly pop-rock song about three boys in white jeans that drive the girls wild making them use brushes and soap to make their jeans the cleanest ever ! And they're in their bikinis too ! Done with some humor especially when a homeless guy appears as the three boys pass him a condom and the girls wash his ratty clothes on him too ! That's all the synopsis I can write about so to fill the 10-line requirement here at IMDb . com , I'll just say I found this short on atom . com under the category " Sexy short comedy " or something similar like that . I previously commented on another short there called The Babysitter . Like I said , Tight White Jeans is a pretty amusing episode of " That's My Daughter " on atom . com .
Fistic Mystic provides some amusement for the last Looney Tunes cartoon on a regular production schedule	Just watched on YouTube this cartoon that , according to IMDb , is the last Warner Bros . Looney Tune one from the series that began with the very first WB animated short , Sinkin ' in the Bathtub , in 1930 . This is a Merlin the Magic Mouse one with Larry Storch providing the voices of him and his sidekick , Second Banana . They're in a western town whose population is reduced by 2 ( as seen on the town sign when the numbers change ) after the bad guy shoots them ( off screen , of course ) . After a couple of scenes where Merlin " defeats " this bad guy , he has Second Banana challenge him to a boxing match . To ensure victory , Merlin provides some magic gloves . . . Director Bob McKimson provides some pretty good timed punches to the bad guy that gave me some chuckles when I watched this . So while the animation is not the greatest , there still are some good movements and poses for whatever limited means the animators had at their disposal . So on that note , Fistic Mystic is worth a look . P . S . The Bill Lava version of " The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down " that appeared in most of these ' 60s Warner cartoons is a bit different here and , also according to IMDb , was only used in this particular cartoon .
I Dream of Jeanie is pretty enjoyable old time musical	Just found out on this site that the man who portrays Stephen Foster here was the voice of the Prince in Disney's Sleeping Beauty and the singing voice of Freddie in Warner Bros . ' My Fair Lady . I recognized two names in the cast credits : Louise Beavers , who I knew from Imitation of Life , portrays another Mammy role , the kind that she became known for and Carl " Alfalfa " Switzer ( credited as Carl Dean Switzer ) who portrays a different Freddie here ( his character works at the same accounting office Foster works ) . Everyone else drew a blank though I also found out Rex Allan , who guests here in blackface , was also a narrator in films like the original movie versions of The Incredible Journey and Charlotte's Web . Mostly enjoyable musical despite the blackface number near the end that I just referred to . For that reason , more sensitive souls should proceed with caution . Made before the civil rights era came into full bloom .
I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry is partly offensive , partly silly , and pretty funny	I have a gay friend who doesn't fit the stereotype in that he loves the WWE and usually watches crude comedies like this latest Adam Sandler comedy . Many critics have called this movie offensive because of many homophobic jokes that abound as well as the Asian stereotype that Sandler's friend Rob Schneider plays as a Canadian wedding preacher . Well , since I'm Asian-American and I know Schneider is half so , I admit I wasn't very amused by his portrayal but I also decided maybe Rob thought so and decided , " What the hell ! " and went for it . But many of the homophobic jokes do work and is partly redeemed by some gay humor that seemed more silly than offensive and some were even hilarious . Besides Schneider , other former SNLers to appear include David Spade , Rachel Dratch , and original cast member Dan Aykroyd . All have some moments . Also appearing are Steve Buscemi , Ving Rhames in a performance you won't believe ( or maybe you will depending what you think he's capable of ) , and a couple of celebrities that recently came out , Lance Bass and Richard Chamberlain . And Keven James isn't bad either ! Overall , based on bad reviews , I dreaded this movie but I laughed enough and enjoyed enough to at least recommend this to anyone who can laugh at almost anything . P . S . My gay friend absolutely loved this !
James Finlayson is good in Stan Laurel-directed Yes , Yes , Nanette	I found Yes , Yes , Nanette on a Platinum DVD collection of Laurel and Hardy films . James Finlayson plays a man who meets his wife's family for the first time . There's plenty of gags involving Fin's toupee coming off that's hilarious each time . Oliver Hardy plays a former suitor of the wife who torments Fin . The exchanges between them are a good indication of what to expect when they eventually team with Stan Laurel in several Hal Roach films . I also liked Fin's exchange with the family teenage girl . Yes , Yes , Nanette is indeed produced by Hal Roach with co-direction by Stan Laurel . Well worth seeing for fans of Hal Roach , Laurel and Hardy , and James Finlayson !
Pots and Pans is another entertaining Van Beuren Tom and Jerry cartoon	Pots and Pans is another Van Beuren cartoon that stars a couple of humans named Tom and Jerry , years before a certain cat-and-mouse team from MGM inherited those titles after the human ones disappeared . They run a train diner with their name on it . Many of the food have faces and move . They also sing with various customers along with the leading duo . Typical ' 30s-style animation meant to mainly fill time before the big feature is at least a little more entertaining than any Saturday morning cartoon that has limited movement because of low budgets . Anyone interested in all eras of animation or at least all things Van Beuren should definitely check out Pots and Pans . I saw this on YouTube .
Vanished : Resurrection marks Gale Harold's final episode	Last week , there were blood stains on the wall of the cabin where we found Sara Collins held prisoner inside . As the investigation continues , enough evidence is discovered to confirm that Senator Jeffrey Collins ' wife is dead . Only the senator's family knows this information . After the breakup with the cameraman , reporter Judy Nash crashes in the apartment of an old flame and spends the night there . Kelton attends his daughter's communion with his ex-wife where he hears someone contact him confidential info that causes him to rush out of church . This was after he went on national television with the ID of the license plate of Sara's abductors . This gets him in trouble with his superior . When Kelton arrives in D . C . , he meets with the man who was Judy's flame and gets told he might be removed from the case . With his wife now dead , Senator Collins goes to the confirmation hearings with the intent to vote no . At this point , Lin Mei finds that the blood in the cabin was made to look like a violent struggle took place between Sara and her kidnappers . In other words , Sara is still alive ! After Kelton hears this , he rushes to the court before Collins can cast his vote . Through his FBI contact , he manages to fake a virus alert before the final vote from the senator is recorded . With the senator out of the building with everyone else , Kelton reports to him about his wife's survival and tries to tell him something else just as he gets shot and lays dead , blood now surrounding him . . . So we begin with one death that turns out to be faked and end with another death that is all but confirmed visually . This marks the last episode for the show's star Gale Harold after the first 7 . Eddie Cibrian who appeared as Nash's old flame will take over after three weeks . Campared with the others , this one episode doesn't have too many subplots to confuse the viewer with the connections to the Missing Sara case . Certainly the little girl's communion was a nice break to the how - can - we - keep - the - viewers - on - edge - angles of previous episodes . Having liked Cibrian on the much-missed Invasion last season , here's hoping he brings Vanished a much needed shot in the arm !
Science Friction is a fascinating collage short from Stan van der Beek	This short is a collage of photo clippings from various newspapers . Most of them is of then-President Eisenhower . There are also landmarks of not only the Statue of Liberty but also of the Leaning Tower of Pisa and the Eiffel Tower . There's also some recorded music and many sound recordings from the real things as opposed to effects . I discovered Science Friction from YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew by Amid . It had this and other Stan van der Beek shorts that are not listed in IMDb . Amid wrote that Terry Gilliam may have been influenced by these when he became the animator on " Monty Python's Flying Circus " and you can see how true that could be when watching this short . Perhaps a little long but I was fascinated by almost the whole 9-minute thing . Certainly worth a look for anyone wanting to see something a little unusual .
The Line was only a fairly good episode of " Heroes "	Peter and Kate vow to go to Montreal , Canada , with Kate especially wanting to " kill the bitch " who killed her brother , Ricky . Sylar , Maya , and Alejandro are crossing the U . S . border . The border patrol hold them up . Sylar tells Maya to go ahead and kill them . She does . Her twin brother tries to kill Sylar but Maya stops him and tells him he's going to take them to Mohinder . Alejandro agrees to let Sylar to stay but he tells Maya if she kills again he won't hold her hand . Noah and the Haitian are in Odessa , Ukraine , to meet with Noah's mentor in the Company to get info about where the rest of Issac's paintings are . Every time this mentor refuses , the Haitian removes a precious memory of his . He finally relents after Noah threatens to remove one of his late daughter . Noah then trashes the place and shoots him . Claire had called during this time to ask to borrow the car . Noah gives his permission and tells her to keep the door closed this time . Claire is having trouble getting on the cheerleading squad because the captain , Debbie , doesn't like her . So later at night while Debbie is drinking , Claire and West play a kidnapping scheme that frightens Debbie and brings the cops who discover her bottle which forces her resignation . Claire is now in ! After treating Monica , Mohinder is told by boss Bob to inject her with something that would take her new found powers away . Since Monica seems to enjoy what she had just discovered on herself , Mohinder eventually refuses and threatens to quit taking Molly with him . Since Bob really likes Mohinder and wants him to stay , he apologizes and gives Monica all the aid she needs when he takes her home . Mohinder is given a new partner in Niki . The way Niki speaks , she sounds like Jessica . Don't know about this one . . . As Ando and a scientist read about Hiro's adventures in 17th century Japan , we find out that after rescuing Tekzeo's girlfriend's father , Hiro's than teleports that girlfriend away from the battle scene to a forest space where despite knowing about the space / time continuum , Hiro and the girlfriend kiss after she realizes that Hiro did all the things she thought was Tekzeo when she was rescued . Tekzeo sees the kiss and betrays Hiro to the enemies as the girlfriend watches . Ando only knows up to when Hiro kissed the girl and wonder where he can be . Peter and Kate are now in Montreal at the door depicted in the painting Peter did last week . As they briefly hug , Peter is now teleported in New York which is barren . A flyer is then found on the ground with an evacuation notice and the date , June 14 , 2008 , the following year . . . Man , what is going on here ? I've tolerated some of the slowness of some of these episodes because I thought they might lead up to something big but this one seemed even more slow that usual . At least Noah is back in his tough-guy mode ! That was such a shock when he had to shoot his mentor ! I really hope Hiro goes back to present time real soon since his use in the 17th century has mostly been fulfilled . Oh , well , it does bring back David Anders back in Sark ( from " Alias " ) mode so that should provide a little more interest here . Now that the Wonder Twins , Maya and Alejandro , are in the U . S . their story should pick up considerably . Certainly with Sylar still around . Peter and Kate , well , maybe theirs will also pick up next week . Can't wait to get back to Matt and his father . So , in summation , this was pretty fair but please , let's up the excitement come next Monday !
Revenge of the Pink Panther is almost as funny as the previous two installments	With the consecutive previous two years of becoming popular again because of The Pink Panther movies , director Blake Edwards and star Peter Sellers waited several months before attempting one more . Revenge of the Pink Panther isn't as consistently funny as the previous two installments in the series but it still provides enough moments that make it as much worth seeing . For one thing , it's great to see Burt Kwouk finally have more dialogue and more of a part as Clouseau's faithful manservant Cato especially when he attempts a disguise at the end . And seeing former Chief Inspector Dreyfus attempting to stifle laughter when giving a speech at Clouseau's " funeral " not to mention his many fainting spells on seeing his former employee identify himself are some of the most hilarious things in the movie . My favorite line , however , comes from the versatile Graham Stark who , as Professor Auguste Balls , says after seeing that Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau is still alive says , " When duty calls , you've got Balls ! " As the villains , Robert Webber and Robert Logia are adequate enough in their parts and as Webber's soon-to-be-ex-mistress who teams with Clouseau when her life is threatened , Dyan Cannon is more lively than previous Pink Panther ladies were concerning pacing of dialogue though she still doesn't have too much to do compared to her Oscar-nominated performance in Heaven Can Wait the same year . Incidentally , when she and Clouseau are walking at night talking about Jacques ' life and career , I wonder if the Chief Inspector ever mentioned his ex-wife whose name happened to be the same as the one he's talking to : Simone . Oh , and the opening animated title sequence , backed by a much more jazzy Henry Mancini Pink Panther theme , is once again by DePatie-Freleng with Art Leonardi and John Dunn providing the hilarious designs . That ending I just mentioned would have been perfect for the series as a whole , but despite Sellers ' death two years later , one more entry starring him would be released . Next up , Trail of the Pink Panther . . .
Getting There has an abstract-style imagination	A man is looking at a picture of a tropical island . He imagines himself going to the box office and buying a ticket for a bus , a train , and a plane as means to get there . None of them suit him , especially the plane . Instead , he strips to his full-bodied swimwear , leaves his regular clothes at the box office , and enters the picture he's been looking at as he relaxes tubing near the picture island ! The end . This is a very brief short entry from the Volume 5 collection of The International Tournee of Animation . Canadian Paul Dreissen does an interesting abstract version of imagination in depicting a man's ideal vacation . Worth a look for animation fans .
Loving You uncovers a lot of Elvis Presley's charm in only his second movie	In honor of The King of Rock ' n ' Roll's untimely death nearly 30 years ago , I've decided to check out some of his movies like this second one he made called Loving You . In this one , he plays Deke Rivers who was just making some deliveries when a woman ( Lizabeth Scott ) inquires if there's a singer around . Guess who gets picked ! Along the way , Deke meets her bandleader ex-husband ( Wendell Corey ) and the female vocalist ( Dolores Hart ) . The movie follows the road tours that lead to some big breaks despite some troubles with some teenage girls and their jealous boyfriends looking for a fight . Elvis shows great charisma throughout and has smoldering chemistry with Ms . Scott and a charmingly sincere one with Ms . Hart . It threatens to get corny at the end with a happy ending for all but it plays very believably for the more innocent time that it was filmed in . Certainly Loving You is more preferable to some of the more sillier movies he made in the 60s . Great songs like the title one and " Teddy Bear " abound . Look for Presley's parents , Gladys and Vernon , in the finale .
Hittin ' the Trail for Hallelujah Land was pretty entertaining for a " Censored 11 " cartoon	Just saw this , one of Warner Bros . infamous " Censored 11 " that will probably never be on regular television again and will probably be only available on public domain tapes or DVDs from bargain basement companies or the internet , on Thad's Animation Blog . It begins with a sequence inspired by Steamboat Willie with whistles and dancing , continues with another one with an " Uncle Tom " character at a graveyard with skeletons dancing possibly inspired by Skeleton Dance , and ends back at that same steamboat with the " Tom " character getting his butt nicked by a giant saw ! Yikes ! That last scene , along with a couple of characters laughing at it , disturbed me more than any " stereotyping " in here that might be offensive to some viewers today . Other than that , this was a pretty entertaining musical cartoon made by Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising long after leaving Walt Disney before he created his famous mouse .
My Little Margie : Trapped Freddie is another contrived but amusing episode	Margie and Freddie arrive at Margie's apartment at 2am , two hours after Margie's curfew as set by her father Vern ( isn't Margie old enough to set her own curfew ? and why is she still living with her father ? ) . Margie arrives in her father's room while he was sleeping and sets his clock two hours before but Vern was awake at that point unbeknownst to Margie . So when Margie comes back and wakes him up , she shows father clock to prove she arrived on time when she sees it was set back ! Since Margie wants a convertible so bad , Vern agrees to give her one on condition she has no contact with Freddie for a month . That is broken a day later so , with the help of Charlie the doorman and neighbor Roberta , Margie keeps trying to hide Freddie out of sight of her father who has just been to the doctor and is required to take a certain number of pills . Vern takes them when he drinks some coffee that Margie laced with . Vern wakes up in the middle of the night when he hears some snoring : Freddie slept in the shower stall ! As Vern takes Freddie to his bed , Margie passes by and catches her father unbeknownst to him . Roberta passes by and she and Margie make a last ditch effort to fool Vern . As Vern reminds Margie of his condition of her getting a convertible , he takes her and Roberta back to his bed to find Charlie lying there leaving Vern with a surprised look on his face ! Another contrived episode but the way it's performed is so wacky that I found myself laughing in spite of myself ( the fact that there is no laugh track probably helped ) . Certainly it was nice to see Willie Best and Hilary Brooke again in an episode though Best didn't seem to do too much this time . Worth seeing for anyone with an interest in vintage ' 50s sitcoms .
Give a Man a Job is an early Public Service short with Jimmy Durante and Moe Howard	Having been checking on the Matinée at the Bijou blog , I've been discovering quite a few curiosities from the Golden Age of Movies . Like this Jimmy Durante musical short produced by M-G-M that touts the National Recovery Administration as part of President Rooselvelt's New Deal . One of the people in the audience that The Great Snozzola warbles to is Moe Howard-with his hair slicked back-who , as an exterminator , wonders aloud " who's going to get rid of all the rats " if Durante says to give his employers vacations . Durante says to hire several more who need the jobs . He goes on like this for the whole two minutes until the short ends with a close-up of Roosevelt on frame . Pretty entertaining and worth a look for anyone who's a fan of Durante and lead Stooge Howard .
Wot a Night is the first ever Tom and Jerry cartoon ( though they're different T & Js )	The stars of this cartoon are Tom and Jerry ( no , not the cat-and-mouse team from MGM . This is a Van Beuren one starring two humans , one tall-Tom and one short-Jerry ) . This is their first cartoon . They are taxi drivers who accept a couple of passengers who have long beards . It is stormy outside as they arrive at a castle which they all come in since T and J have been stiffed . Various skeleton gags follow including an unfortunate one of four blackfaced people being defeated by a crap game ! Otherwise , great use of storms and skeletons to create atmosphere . Well worth seeing for ' 30s animation buffs . Some of the animation may remind you of the Walt Disney / Ub Iwerks Skeleton Dance .
This Japanese cartoon I found on Cartoon Brew linking YouTube was pretty fascinating for its views on America and Mickey Mouse in particular	This is a bizarre cartoon from ' 30s Japan I just discovered on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . It's basically about an island with peaceful citizens ( one of whom resembles Felix the Cat ) dancing to music before being invaded by a giant Mouse that resembles Mickey flying on a giant bat with a mouse-like head with others looking like them following . Then the islanders contact legendary folk-hero Momotaro from a giant book to battle " Mickey " . After defeating " Mickey " in a sword duel , the giant mouse falls through the clouds and grows very old after one of the doll inhabitants releases some spirit from a box . Also defeated are some snakes that spit bullets and many of the bats with mouse heads that also have ammunition in their mouths . Then at the end , the sun god makes blossoms appear on trees as the islanders ( which ounce again includes " Felix " ) dance happily ever after . . . Anyone who knows about Japanese history could probably tell that " Mickey " represents America which the country with the rising sun on their flag thought was about to attack them . On that note , I found this cartoon fascinating for its political-point-of-view . I was also entertained by the way this partly resembles many of the musical cartoons that we Americans made plenty of during much of early talkie era . One more bizarre scene was when " Felix " hit the turtle's head during the beginning dance sequence . Did he not realize he might be hurting that turtle physically ? With all that , this was one of the many fascinating Japanese cartoons I discovered on YouTube . By the way , although IMDb doesn't say so , this was directed by Komatsuzawa Hajime . P . S . The title translates into " Toybox Series # 3 : Picture Book 1936 " .
The Fixers Uppers is a pretty funny Laurel and Hardy holiday comedy short	This is one Laurel and Hardy short that I found even remotely relates to Christmas since the boys here are selling Christmas cards . One of their potential customers is a woman who's trying to make her husband jealous so she won't feel neglected . Stan makes a suggestion and all hell breaks loose ! That's all I'll say except that while the subject matter is a little outside of L & H territory , there's still some good laughs , both verbal and visual , that kept me satisfied . And the supporting cast of Charles Middlton , and especially , Mae Busch and that frequently drunk Arthur Housman are in fine form here . So on that note , I highly recommend The Fixer Uppers for Laurel and Hardy fans everywhere .
The Plot Sickens was another cynical adult carton from Famous / Paramount	Just watched this Paramount Modern Madcap cartoon on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . In this one , a nebbishly henpecked husband is trying to do away with his shrewishly heavyset wife who spends most of her time laughing at her TV and drinking her wine . When he gets sold some poison that the salesman tells him will " kill an elephant " , this man goes to the zoo and puts his purchase in the pachyderm's water . Guess what happens . But when he puts it in his wife's drink , she just burps ! He then puts an alligator in her wading pool but she ends up sitting on the reptile and smashing him dead ! Finally , he puts a bomb in her car just before she goes off . After forcing him to go with her , the explosion comes but while she's okay , he's flying over New Jersey ! Stuck in the hospital for three months , this man is treated by a pretty nurse who kisses him every visit . So when he goes back , he threatens his wife with a machine gun . Scared , this wife leaves for good . So he and the nurse get married . When they settle down , this new wife displays the same characteristics of his old one ! Poor guy . . . Boy those people at the Famous / Paramount cartoon studio sure have cynical views on marriage , don't they , with first Harry Happy and now this ! The leading man really feels stomped on with this harridan of a wife . Despite this , this was even funnier than the previous short even though I could guess the ending a minute or two away . So on that note , I recommend The Plot Sickens for anyone not expecting a children's cartoon from this era .
The Black Network is another entertaining musical short	This is another musical short from Warner Bros . - Vitaphone that showcases Nina Mae McKinney and the Nicholas Brothers . In this one , Harold and Fayard sing as well as dance and they do it well . Ms . McKinney has one number before the sponsor's wife ( Amanda Randolph ) forces herself on the air and asks in song , " What is Wrong with Me ? " before she decides there's nothing wrong with her . Of course , her face and attitude tells us something different ! There's also a forgotten musical group called the Washboard Serenaders that has one member playing the kazoo behind a glass that must have amazed the theatrical audience back then . Another forgotten singer named Emmett ' Babe ' Wallace sings at the end with him and Nina in their Sunday best as the short ends happily . Well , except for Amanda who's stuck watching from a window . While many of the musical numbers are cut to many scenes of contrived plot devices , The Black Network is still entertaining enough for me to recommend it .
The Land Unknown is a compelling ' 50s sci-fi flick	All I'd like to say about Universal-International's The Land Unknown is that three navy men and a woman reporter land accidentally in a warm spot in Antartica with their helicopter stuck for 30 days during which time they encounter some dinosaurs and another man who had survived there for 10 years from another expedition after his three crew members died there . Jock Mahoney is the commanding officer Harold ( though I could have sworn he was called " Alan " here ) who tries to keep everything together . I recognized him from the TV western " Range Rider " on America One a few years ago . Shirley Patterson ( credited here as Shawn Smith ) is the reporter , Maggie , he falls for . Henry Brandon ( best known as Silas Barnaby in Laurel and Hardy's Babes in Toyland where he was then known as Harry Kleinbach ) is 10-year survivor Dr . Carl Hunter who initially tries to make a deal for the 3 men to escape in exchange for the woman to stay with him . Great conflict results . The dinosaur scenes are a combination of actual footage of close-up lizards and a man wearing a tyrannosaurus outfit . The outfit makes this movie a little cheesy but they worked with what they had at the time on whatever budget was allowed . Otherwise , a mostly compelling entertainment for anyone interested in ' 50 sci-fi movies especially of the Universal-International kind . Wonderful atmospheric score by Joseph Gershenson . P . S . Jock Mahoney was Sally Field's stepfather .
Bosko in Person is pretty entertaining musically	Bosko in Person takes place entirely on a stage where he and Honey perform songs , musical instrumentals , and singing celebrity impersonations . I recognized Bosko's Jimmy Durante but I don't know who Honey was impersonating when she sang in a big , brassy , voice . Music director Frank Marsales keeps things moving to a nice jazzy beat throughout with a fine patriotic finish and a nice illustration of President Franklin Roosevelt on drums at the end . Bosko in Person is one of many Harmon-Ising ( harmonizing , get it ? ) cartoons made for Leon Schlesinger starring the monkey-like character for Warner Bros . in the early thirties before they left for greener pastures at MGM . When they took Bosko there with them , he would emerge into a different character . . .
Bosko the Musketeer is a highly amusing musical cartoon short	Since the previous reviewer mentioned many of the things I was going to describe , I'll just mention two things : 1 ) Before the sword fight starts , the swords are shaking hands . 2 ) The little mice all look like Mickey ! Maybe not so surprising at all since Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising were previously animators for Walt Disney when he created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit ( Oswald looked like the Famous Mouse with long ears and a fluffy tail ) . Another highly amusing early Warner Bros . Looney Tunes short with tuneful music and singing throughout though that tends to get repetitious after a while . Good thing when Tex Avery arrived several years later , gags would be more important than music . Still , highly worth a look for anyone interested in early Warner Bros . cartoons before the arrival of Porky , Daffy , and Bugs .
Yelp Wanted is an interesting debut for the now obscure Scrappy	Since the plot summary tells you everything about Yelp Wanted , I'll just say this is as good a beginning for the Scrappy series for Charles Mintz with distribution by Columbia as I've seen for any character that is now obscure here in the 21st century . Both amusing and heartwarming , Scrappy the little boy goes through a lot , including going through Rough House Alley , in order to cure his sick little dog Yippy . But if you're familiar with this story then you'll probably not be surprised by the ending that happens here though at the time this was made in 1931 , it was probably pretty fresh . Still , for anyone interested in any early animation efforts made in the early talkie era , I highly recommended Yelp Wanted .
Room Service is no Marx Brothers classic , but still enjoyable nonetheless	30 years ago today , Groucho Marx died at 86 , three days after Elvis Presley . For the occasion , I'd thought I'd view some of his movies of which Room Service is one of them . Unlike the others he made with his brothers , this one wasn't especially tailored to their talents since it was originally a Broadway play starring other people . So the action is mostly confined to the hotel and the pace slows down a little bit . Nevertheless , there's still some witty lines and visual humor concerning Harpo that makes this one of the more enjoyable latter day-Marx Brothers films . And there's a wonderful supporting cast with Frank Albertson as the playwright and , especially , Donald MacBride as the hotel manager who keeps exclaiming , " Jumping Butterballs ! " Also of note is the fact that a couple of young players named Ann Miller and Lucille Ball appear here long before their established personas . So while not the classic of their five Paramount and first two MGM pictures , this RKO production was nothing the Marx Brothers should be ashamed of .
Burns and Allen are Fit to Be Tied	George encounters two talkative salesgirls who won't stop talking to each other even after he keeps saying , " I want to buy a tie . " He then encounters a salesman who cuts the tie he's wearing to match the one he wants to buy ! Then he encounters Gracie and the conversation turns from wanting to buy a tie to asking to guess a word that starts with " W " to George asking Gracie for a date with Gracie replying , " Not tonight , I'm expecting a headache ! " He then encounters another saleswoman who mistakes his request for a tie for a towel ! He then encounters Gracie at another counter who then sings about how tame people think she is but really how wild she is ! Just then George and Gracie break character and mention they don't have much time to go . Gracie suggests telling the pineapple story but George says that would get them off forever so they simply wave to the camera and say goodbye ! Amusing first ( I'm guessing ) short for Burns and Allen . If they seem nervous during their first film , they hardly show it . Allen , especially , seems fine here . Worth seeing for Burns and Allen fans .
Bobby Bumps Starts a Lodge starts cruel then becomes amusing	During much of the cartoon , I thought Bobby was pretty cruel to both the goat ( I didn't like it when he jacked him up like that ) and the black boy who is supposed to be his friend ( when he blindfolded him and was going to have the goat butt him ) . But by the time the black boy was stuck on the tree with the bear between cliffs with Bobby on the other side and then Bobby was then stuck on a rope hanging on that same tree with the bear on top of him with each making truces , I forgave Bobby and was amused by the rest of the cartoon and the ending where they both get initiated into a lodge . You'll have to watch the cartoon on YouTube to see how it all ends . Worth a look for any silent animation buffs out there .
The Social Side of Health is an interesting educational Disney cartoon	Just watched this educational short cartoon from Walt Disney Productions on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . In this one , the narrator tells of the three sides of health represented by a triangle with the physical side at the bottom , the mental side on the left , and the social side-the subject of this film-on the right . There's a song about how we all need people that begins and ends this short that has some politically incorrect lyrics like how an Indian who makes beads needs tourists ! Still , it makes its points effectively and entertainingly when it focuses on a couple of teens-one male and one female-and how different they looked in various eras with fashions and hair not to mention the emergence of certain clicks in separate circles . There's also some mention about how sex and drugs can be destructive-complete with some psychedelic imagery-so obviously this short isn't meant for small children . So on that note , I'd recommend The Social Side of Health as an interesting Disney curio .
King for a Day is an amusing Gabby cartoon from Fleischer	If you read the synopsis provided elsewhere here , you know what happens . Mostly amusing with Gabby running frantically everywhere trying to avoid getting shot even though those banging noises come from other objects like the suitcase that quickly closes on the back of his shirt that gets stuck on him when he runs . There's also some gags about being chocked and getting hanged that probably wouldn't ever pass muster on Saturday morning cartoons even today . Made when the Fleischer Studio was in financial decline , only eight Gabby cartoons were made before Paramount fired Max and Dave and changed the name to Famous Studios . Worth a look for any Fleischer completists out there .
Eats Are West is another Felix the Cat cartoon that was pretty amusing	Felix is starving . He goes to The Tea Room where-with the help of the question mark over his head-he drinks some tea from the restaurant sign which is in the shape of a tea bowl ! That gets him chased out by the owner so he next encounters a billboard sign that advertises Mammy's Flap Jacks with the Mammy showing her plate of such on there . Felix takes those literally from there leaving the woman to chase him ! The cat-through an exclamation mark and using the flap jacks as wheels-then rides an escape from her before then using an exclamation point from his head and using one of the gate wood he crashed in to fly away . Still hungry , he finds a Pony Express rider and steals the food from there which doesn't make the cowboys happy as they find him in the bag which results in a violent skirmish . He then takes a rope and makes it into a horse which then deteriorates into just string from being ridden so much ! Having now gotten away he runs into some Indians ( the Native American kind ) and is now a target for food as one of them is tired of just soup ! During the fight , Felix uses his guns to literally take one squaw man to pieces ! After escaping there ( by an arrow that hit his tail ) , he finds a wooden store Indian and shoots holes in it before getting arrested . The end . The beginning with the tea drinking and the taking the flap jacks from billboard was pretty amusing before the not-so-funny action sequences abounded . Then there was the rope-becoming-horse and Indian-cut-to-pieces bit that wonderfully surprised me near the end that saved the cartoon for me . So for that , I'm recommending Eats Are West for Felix fans .
Haunted Honeymoon is enjoyable for Gilda Radner's final movie	Having heard for years how awful Haunted Honeymoon was and long wanting to see Gilda Radner in her last movie , I taped this last night while the Emmys were on . Now that I've seen it , I can now say nobody in the cast and crew have anything to be ashamed about . I love the performances in the radio studio with Radner and Gene Wilder playing characters in a show with the same title as film . Dom DeLuise is amusing as Aunt Kate . But I want to really praise the hard-of-hearing butler Pfister ( Bryan Pringle ) who , because Wilder tells him his fiancée is slightly deaf , keeps shouting at Radner . And , yes , like many other comments here , I love Wilder's using someone else's legs as his in front of policemen . I also loved the " Ballin ' the Jack " number between DeLuise and Radner and Radner's joke about the bug on the windshield . So in short , if you're a fan of all three stars , seek this out by all means !
Live Free or Die Hard was an enjoyable first experience with Bruce Willis ' John McClane	Before I review Live Free or Die Hard I have a confession to make : I've never seen the other Die Hard movies that were made in the last 19 years before this one . So I only know about John McClane's most famous line by reputation ( and I'm not going to quote it here ) . Having just said that , I enjoyed most of the action set-pieces ( the one with the fighter jet is the only one that seemed too ridiculous to me ) and many of the supporting characters and villains . Justin Long and Maggie Q deserve special mention for their entertaining turns as Bruce Willis ' sidekick and fight nemesis , respectively . I previously saw Ms . Q in Mission : Impossible III as part of Tom Cruise ' team and she's in better use here with her sexy voice , body , and overall kick-ass stance . It's also nice to see that Mary Elizabeth Winstead as McClane's daughter Lucy isn't a complete doormat here . So since I highly enjoyed this latest entry in Willis ' highly successful movie series , I may just check one of his previous entries soon maybe starting with the very first one . . .
Quaranteened is another amusingly funny episode of Meet Corliss Archer	Corliss has the measles and has to stay in bed . Against his mother and Mrs . Archer's advice , Dexter comes in Corliss ' house as the health inspector comes and quarantines it . Not good news for Mr . Archer especially when he has to share the bathroom with Dexter when they wash their faces ! And certainly not at night when a robber is suspected of prowling the neighborhood ! Just as Corliss gets better but before the quarantine is lifted , Dexter devises a " buglar trap " to catch him . It only catches Mr . Archer when he comes home late from work ! As the health inspector comes to take the sign down he notices something wrong with Mr . Archer and discovers he now has the measles so the sign goes back up another week ! Another amusing episode of this now forgotten family sitcom from the ' 50s . I liked some of the physical comedy involving Dexter and Mr . Archer . They're the best parts of the show . So if you like good clean comedy from a bygone era , I suggest you seek out Meet Corliss Archer .
The Box was an amusing Oscar-winning animated short by Fred Wolf	Just watched this Oscar-winning animated short directed by Fred Wolf on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . It's basically the story of an old bearded man sitting at a bar drinking with a box on the counter . First a man and then a woman have drinks with this bearded man as they try to find out what's in the box . Both times-after a few minutes-the bearded man allows each one to look in the box with neither pleased to have found out and with both leaving indignant . Then another woman arrives . . . Scored with just drums , The Box is an amusing animated short with an ending that may make you think if the bearded man is who one may think he is . This director Wolf ( who is different from a recent former SNL writer with the same name ) , I've recently found out , is the same person who made those " Puff the Magic Dragon " specials with Burgess Meredith as the voice of Puff as well as the feature film The Mouse and His Child which I reviewed last fall . All of those I mentioned were pretty enjoyable and so it is with this short . So on that note , I recommend The Box .
Meet Corliss Archer : Harry's Cold is pretty amusing	Harry has a bad cold that keeps him from work that day . Dexter offers to take care of him while Corliss gets some hand-me-down clothes and her mother also does some charity work . Somehow this all goes down to Dexter's parents that the Archers are low on money . Vice versa for the Archers . All is cleared out in the end though Harry still has his cough . . . Amusing ' 50s sitcom about teens Corliss and Dexter and their parents . Some amusing visual gags like Harry's shaking hands mixing Dexter's milk-and-syrup drink or Harry's pain from Dexter's taking on and off some kind of adhesive at various places on his back ! Worth seeing for what people would have liked family life to have been like in the ' 50s . Was originally a radio show .
Rhinoceros marked a welcome re-teaming of Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder	When I went to my local library to check out DVDs , this one caught my eye because of the two stars pictured on it with their names prominently displayed : Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder . Anyone who's watched Mel Brooks ' The Producers knows who they are and what a great team they made . So I included it among four others and brought it home with me . I must say while the movie itself is a little uneven ( that scene in Wilder's accounting office with his coworkers was a little too frantic for my tastes ) , whenever Gene and Zero are on screen together they're nothing short of hilarious especially when Mostel does his transformation . Karen Black is also on hand as Wilder's love interest providing a sweet and sexy presence to the proceedings . In adapting Eugene Ionesco's play to the big screen , director Tom O'Horgan does a nice transition from farce to serious drama in the last 30 minutes that made me think about how conformity can be enjoyable if stifling after a while vs . how individuality can be liberating if lonesome because of not-as-many takers . Of course , anyone expecting a conventional slapstick comedy would probably be disappointed with the whole thing but despite some unevenness , I highly enjoyed and recommend Rhinoceros .
Down South is an obviously Steamboat Willie-inspired Toby the Pup cartoon	I just saw this Toby the Pup cartoon mistakenly identified as an Aesop Fables short from Van Beuren on YouTube . Down South seems to have been inspired by Walt Disney's Steamboat Willie which isn't surprising since the lead character seems to be a Mickey Mouse ripoff developed by Walt's former boss , Charles Mintz . Of course , Mickey himself is a steal from Oswald the Lucky Rabbit that Walt created for Mintz . Oswald by this time was given to Walter Lantz by the studio that owned the character , Universal . Moving on , Toby is a steamboat captain who has to keep smiling when welcoming passengers . A monkey with a long tail on a tightrope helps keep that smile coming ! His girlfriend , Cathy , keeps things entertaining when she does her rendition of " Mississippi Mud " , a song I learned for a musical play about the south as a kid . Many wonderfully surreal gags abound that kept me amused if not laughing . Worth a look for anyone interested in early animation .
Felix All Puzzled pretty good Felix the Cat entry	Felix won't get fed by his owner until he solves the last word in his crossword puzzle which is vertical , a seven-letter word for something found chiefly in Russia . Felix gets himself kicked by another animal in order to get to the Soviet Union and immediately is thought of as a spy when he sneaks into a house of a couple of cossacks . He gets chased constantly until he manages to get kicked back to his homeland where his owner asked if he found the crossword answer . " Nope , " replies Felix , " all I found in Russia was trouble . " " Trouble " turns out to be the answer as Felix and his owner both laugh . The End . Pretty amusing and very short entry in the Felix canon . Worth seeing for the cat completists . Update / 08 : I found a more uncensored version on Matinée At The Bijou as linked to YouTube . It might have been some stereotypical Russian gags that was edited out when I first saw this two years ago . Anyway , the ratings the same .
The Fight was an interesting curio of Walt Disney's " What Would I Do ? " educational cartoon series	Just watched this entry in Walt Disney's " What Would I Do ? " cartoon series of educational shorts on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . In this one , a small boy is tripped by a much taller one so they start fighting while another boy watches . The rest of the film has the narrator asking the question I just mentioned with " You " in place of " I " with all three boys thinking of what would be the result of taking certain actions . Interesting handling of a subject meant to make young boys think about the consequences of whatever happens during and after a fistfight . Limited animation was good for the era and makes the thought provoking subject interesting . So for anyone curious about these Disney rarities , I recommend The Fight .
Pilot of " Bionic Woman " should fill genre slot for Wednesday until " Lost " returns	As a child of the ' 70s , I was somewhat familiar with " The ( original ) Bionic Woman " that starred Lindsay Wagner with occasional appearances by Lee Majors as Steve Austin of " The Six Million Dollar Man " which " TBW " spun-off of . Maybe one of these days , I'll re-watch them on DVD . This version , starring Michelle Ryan , was pretty imaginative with Jamie having a boyfriend whose father happens to have invented the parts that replaced those of her after the accident and previously also replaced those of another bionic woman played by Katee Sackhoff who's no good . Nice to see Miquel Ferrer here having known him previously from RoboCop and " Twin Peaks " . Can't make up my mind if he's a good guy or bad guy . Not a great pilot , but interesting enough that I'll keep watching . Since " Lost " won't return until February , " Bionic Woman " should fill the genre need on Wednesday until then . . .
The Curious Case of Inspector Clouseau was a fascinating find for this Pink Panther fan	Having seen all the Pink Panther movies the previous week , I looked at the Therapeutic Pink Message boards and discovered mention on one of the blog links a documentary called The Curious Case of Inspector Clouseau . On that link was one to YouTube that allowed me to watch this doc in six parts . In this one hour television special from England , we get brief pertinent info about Peter Sellers ' pre-Pink Panther life before that movie and its sequel , A Shot in the Dark , catapulted him into stardom . We also get glimpses of his relationship with director Blake Edwards and some of the fights they got into when working . Among the interviewees : Herbert Lom , Graham Stark , Elke Sommer , Dyan Cannon , William Peter Blatty who co-wrote A Shot in the Dark , and Edwards producing partner , Tony Adams . Host Burt Kwouk also provides his own insights on both Sellers and Edwards . What's discussed besides that director-star relationship is how tormented Sellers was after his stardom concerning his weight and the heart attacks that resulted . Also how tired he seemed to be with Clouseau especially the repetition of some gags . There's also some interesting interview footage of Peter himself just being himself discussing some jokes and certain characterizations . As well as a brief scene of his marriage to Britt Ekland in 1964 . And then there's footage of Edwards ' laughing on set of some of the Panther movies . Quite fascinating , this documentary , though because of its short one hour length , it also seemed abrupt concerning the segue from one Panther movie to the next especially when the time came to discuss Peter's last proposed Panther script which one of the interviewees who's not mentioned above says would have been a disaster especially since Sellers was thinking of directing it himself with Blake nowhere near it . Despite the limited running time though , The Curious Case of Inspector Clouseau was still worth my time as a die-hard Pink Panther fan .
Oliver Hardy has amusing cameo in Our Gang's Baby Brother	Joe Cobb is a wealthy child who longs for a baby brother . His nursemaid takes him to the other side where he meets some kids his age ( the rest of Our Gang ) where Joe offers three dollars for a baby . Farina finds a fellow African-American neighbor woman who lets him mind her infant which he then paints white and sells to Joe . The rest of the gang has set an assembly-line system that washes , dries , rocks , and feeds male and female babies . As Joe puts his through , the paint comes off but since it calls him papa he is still overjoyed . Then the real mother arrives making Joe put the child in his mother's lap at home . To get him over losing his " kid " , his parents announce in advance that he's getting a pony for Christmas ! This short is pretty amusing from beginning to end although one may get slightly uncomfortable at how the infants are treated in the name of " fun " . Historically , this was the first appearance of Bobby " Wheezer " Hutchins , so rebellious that he already does his first Bronx cheer here ! Also , look for Oliver Hardy just before his fateful teaming with Stan Laurel . As Joe embarrasses his girlfriend Anita Garvin by asking if she can find him a baby brother , Ollie does his famous camera look , then smiles bashfully before falling down in hilarious fashion ! I saw this in a Cabin Fever VHS with three talkie Little Rascals issued around 1994 . Well worth seeking out if you're an Our Gang and / or a Laurel and Hardy fan !
Face Off is a pretty good episode of " Bionic Woman "	Jamie goes with Antonio to Paraguay to find this doctor . When there , Antonio has themselves arrested which results in them meeting the man . Because he knows something he's not suppose to , Antonio tries to have him killed but Jamie stops him as she takes a bullet . This doctor later treats Jamie and tells her she may die soon . Meanwhile , Sarah , held back in a chair , takes a psychological test under Ruth which leads nowhere . She manages to break free as she nearly chokes her ex-boyfriend . After Becca finds out older sister Jamie lied about going " away " with a friend , Jamie tells her she can't say where she's going but she'll always look after her . I'll stop there and say while this episode wasn't as exciting as the one before , at least nothing seemed out-of-place either . Michelle Ryan seems to grow into her role and Katee Sackhoff is excellent as usual . Will review again next week . . .
Irving Berlin's White Christmas is wonderful holiday fluff for the ages	To celebrate Christmas and to pay respects to Mr . Bing Crosby who died a little more than 30 years ago , I decided to watch for the first time in its entirety , White Christmas . This movie made of Irving Berlin songs both old and new , also stars Danny Kaye , Vera-Ellen , Rosemary Clooney , Dean Jagger , and Mary Wickes with some familiar bit players like Herb Vigran and Grady Sutton . Also , George Chakiris , best known as Bernardo in West Side Story , is a dancing extra here . The story of two former army buddies - turned - musical - partners who meet a two sister singing act that's on their way to a lodge owned by the general of the former army pals is just a contrivance to put together various songs to fit in certain segments . Good musical performances abound with some of my favorites being " Choreography " with Kaye and Vera-Ellen making fun of Jazz-Ballet and the " Count Your Blessings " duet with Crosby and Clooney . While I said the story is pretty contrived , I also was mostly willing to go along with most of it as the performers made it all go down easy with director Michael Curtiz lending a brisk pace throughout . The now-classic song " White Christmas " was probably better handled in Holiday Inn by Bing some 12 years before but still , it's a good way to both begin and end this wonderful showcase to Mr . Berlin that's become a holiday classic for the last 50 years . P . S . - The picture that Vera-Ellen show of she and Clooney's brother that served with Bing and Danny is that of former Our Ganger / Little Rascal Carl " Alfalfa " Switzer !
Room and Bored is another funny Fox and Crow entry	As Room and Bored begins we see the Fox in his apartment at peace playing the violin . We then pull back to an Apartment for Rent sign that says , " Quiet , refined tenant preferred " signed by the Fox . Screeching through the door a few minutes later is a van occupied by the Crow who accepts the offer before the Fox could refuse it ! Crow then throws out the classical piano and tears down the refined wallpaper and puts out various street signs and pinup posters as the Fox brings the player piano and other of the Crow's stuff . Fox's last nerve later gets worked out when the Crow overflows his bathtub and he throws him out . Crow gets sympathy from him , however , when he dresses as a hobo , cries , and shows him the blizzard out the window ( revealed outside as Jivory Soap Flakes pouring above ) . This confuses the Fox as it's July . So as the Crow keeps playing his music , the Fox keeps putting coal in the furnace , gets hotter , and eventually pours coffee in one ear and out the other . . . Loved the shaking animation during the Crow music sequences . While one feels sorry for the Fox character , the way he deals with his lot can be so hilarious especially in scenes like when the piano falls on him . Worth seeing for fans of ' 40s animation and anyone curious about the Columbia animation output of that time .
Swing Parade of 1946 was a nice showcase for The Three Stooges and Louis Jordan and His Tympany Five	In honor of Black History Month , I've been making comments on films that featured African-Americans . We're now in 1946 with Swing Parade of 1946 . In this one , Louis Jordan and His Tympany Five perform " Don't Worry About the Mule " and " Caldonia " in segments that could easily be edited out by Southern theatres of the time without ruining the plot-what there is of one ( which easily explains why he and his group are nowhere near the musical finale ) . Both performances bring a rollicking attitude that lifts the movie above the norm . The main reason I , and I'm sure many , would want to watch this movie today is because of The Three Stooges with Curly , especially , in fine form months before his stroke forced him to retire . The singing leads here are Phil Regan and Gale Storm . Ms . Storm displays some comic talents that served her well in her later TV shows , " My Little Margie " and " The Gale Storm Show " . She also sings a wonderful rendition of " The Sunny Side of the Street " and " Oh , Brother " . There's also Connee Boswell singing the third version of " Stormy Weather " I've heard this month ( following Ivie Anderson and Lena Horne ) that again takes my breath away . Ed Brophy provides perfect blustery segue from the plot to the Stooges as their boss " Moose " . And Windy Cook provides some amusing impressions of boat motors and plane engines though the movie becomes a bit long by that point . And there's another player from my favorite movie , It's a Wonderful Life , here-Mary Treen who plays Marie Finch and does a nice duet with band leader Will Osborne on " A Tender Word Will Mend It All " . No great shakes , but with the presence of the Stooges and Louis Jordan , Swing Parade of 1946 is definitely worth a look .
Felix Saves the Day is banned because of racial stereotypes	I just saw Felix Saves the Day on YouTube . com . It concerns Felix playing baseball with neighbor kids many of whom are visualized as black kids with big lips . But the main kid is white . During this cartoon , you occasionally see live-action backgrounds meant ( I think ) to represent New York City . The white kid catches a fly ball of Felix's by climbing the real ( I think ) Empire State Building . The kid throws the ball down the building and the ball hits the policeman who was chasing said kid ! The kid goes to jail as a result . There's a big game going in the nearby stadium . Felix watches the game and sees his team losing . He goes to the kid in jail to try to get him out to save the game . The kid tells Felix to go in his place . Felix goes to the game and strikes out saying , " Only rain will save this game . " The other teams player hits a ball so far outfield that it hits an angel in the sky who then says , " I will ruin this game . " So it rains and Felix and the boy dance for joy . The End . This was one of the earliest Felixs so the cat looks more like a wolf in some angles . While the black stereotypes is a little bothersome , it's a mostly an amusing entry with some good live-action shots ( both moving and still ) for Felix to play in .
An Up-to-Date Conjuror is interesting early Melies short	Georges Melies covers his female assistant with a blanket . When she is uncovered , she disappears . Melies lifts a barrel on a table to the left of him and the woman reappears . He carries her in his arms where she turns to confetti . He then covers himself with a blanket and disappears , then the barrel lifts and there he is ! He jumps off table and turns into his assistant when he lands . She goes back on table and becomes Georges again when he lands ! He then goes back on table where he disappears in a puff of smoke ! The end . Interesting Melies short which , in the version I saw , had vintage 1906 music by the Edison Concert Band . Worth a look if you're a Melies fan .
Mr . Big marks a very amusing beginning for the classic comedy series " Get Smart "	In this , the pilot episode of " Get Smart " , CONTROL agent Maxwell Smart ( Don Adams ) gets a call from the Chief ( Edward Platt ) to rescue a scientist who's invented something that's in the hand of the criminal organization called KAOS . He is to meet Agent 99 ( Barbara Feldon ) at a certain place . From there , the fun begins . . . With today being the general release day of the new movie version of " Get Smart " with Steve Carell in the title role , I thought I'd finally watch the very first episode of this classic television comedy series that Mel Brooks and Buck Henry created some 43 years ago . And yes , there's a " and " instead of a " with " in the writing credits when the two get credited here . This is where we first see the shoe phone and the cone of silence , hear Max's famous lines " And loving it ! " and " Would you believe . . . " ( while Smart says sorry a few times , there's no " . . . about that , Chief ! " yet ) And it's here that he-and we-first see 99 and though we know it's a woman , Max doesn't realize it yet since she's in uniform with a cap on . Plenty of funny lines abound with some of my favorites during the cone of silence sequence which turns into a " Who's on First ? " - type of confusion dialogue concerning the number " 57 " and " Hong Kong " . Also loved the code sentence being about the Mets winning so when Max hears a little boy say it , he asks if he's 99 . " No , I'm six and a half , " comes the reply . And then there's the meeting with Mr . Big . . . If there's some quibble here , it's that 99 seems a bit too kowtowed to Max for my tastes and the fights are soooo fake here . Still , this was quite an entertaining beginning for the beloved comedy series that lasted five seasons on the air . P . S . Was that female enemy agent called Zelinka named after executive producer Leonard Stern's former writing partner Sydney Zelinka when they wrote for " The Honeymooners " ?
Judge for a Day is pretty entertaining for a post-Code Betty Boop	Just discovered this post-Code Max Fleischer Betty Boop cartoon on YouTube . You can tell it's after the time the Production Code really went into effect since Betty is singing about being happy and not about sexuality . Also she's more conservatively dressed for work as a court stenographer and not as a nightclub entertainer with her garter on one of her legs . And the people that annoy her are not lechers but bus passengers of which two try to read her paper , one lady rudely takes her seat , and one man blows smoke in her face ! So when she arrives early in an empty courthouse , Betty imagines what would happen if she were judge . The next scene takes place in a zoo where many of these annoying people get what's coming to them ! That's all I'll say except there's actually something of a happy ending for Betty and the townspeople who cheer her on . So while this isn't the standard Betty Boop we all know and love , Judge for a Day does still provide some of her spark in this post-Code entry .
Breakdown is humorous East German animated short	A man is waiting near the road with a rope in his hand . He is hitchhiking . Car after car passes him by . This seems to go on for a long time . Finally , a little man in a small car stops by and ties rope to bumper . As little man starts to drive off , the hitchhiker disappears down hole where rope is . The rope pulls some motorcycles , then an open-air limousine which the hitchhiker is now inhabiting , then one where a German band is playing , and now a band of army tanks and so on as we hear German marching music playing in the background as the credits appear . Amusing punchline in this East German entry of Volume 5 of The International Tournee of Animation on videocassette . Worth seeking out for animation buffs .
Rebel Yell was another good episode of " Miss Guided "	When vice principal Terry throws a punk band off the school yard , Becky recognizes the leader as someone who used to wear Cosby sweaters ( " You're my ' Cos " ) . Since Spring Break is arriving , Terry and Principal Huffy want the teaching staff to stay the night on grading papers . Guidance counselor Becky was just going to " sponge-paint " her office during that time but decides hanging out with Lisa and , especially , Tim would be more fun . So during their time checking papers , all three have chips even though they're in a room where no outside snacks are allowed . Then they have pizza and beer in the cafeteria kitchen which results in a Breakfast Club dance reenactment complete with them running when Terry tries to catch them . In hiding from him , Lisa and Tim go one way while Becky uses her knowledge of Bruce's secret entrance code to vandalize his office . Bad idea as he found out from a stuffed animal monitor of his but promises not to tell if she supports his security proposal to Huffy . She initially does but changes her mind when the punk rock student is threatened with punishment by Bruce for " looking like one who would vandalize his office " . So with Bruce's bodyguard's help , Huffy watches Becky's mischief in the vice principal's office on computer and makes her take charge of the Saturday detention class . Since Becky didn't reveal Lisa and Tim's contribution and vice versa , Tim shows up at detention to keep Becky company . . . Another amusing episode of " Miss Guided " with nice dialogue between Becky , Tim , and Lisa and excellent reenactment of the Breakfast Club montage . Maybe a bit more contrived that usual , but hey , what a good " wishful thinking " scenario with the three leads getting along so well together for once . Looking forward to seeing the rest of the episodes so on that note . . .
Frenemies was a pretty amusing last episode ( so far ) of " Miss Guided "	Becky is substituting for Lisa when Lisa arrives crying . She later finds out from Tim that her divorce became final that day . Becky embraces her and tells her to love herself before deciding to try to love someone else . Lisa resolves to do this in one day what took Becky years to do . Lisa also tells Becky she plans to ask Tim out . Becky becomes even more chagrined when she finds out that date took place on the school roof the night after she and Lisa were bonding over past times there ( like during their senior year when Lisa threw water balloons on Becky unbeknownst to her ) . When she sees Tim and Lisa alone in her classroom , Becky starts the third " fire drill " ( after a couple of previous ones were mischievously started by student Shawna , played by Rumor Willis ) for distraction . Meanwhile , Bruce , taking over for the ill Huffy , gets in trouble with the school superintendent for trying to abuse his power by detaining Shawna for 6 months . Huffy eventually bails him out . . . A little better than the last episode of " Miss Guided " I watched with nice dialogue exchanges between Judy Greer and Brooke Burns . And some funny asides from Becky about Tim . Also thought Bruce and his teen assistant had some moments . Since this was the last episode completed before the writers strike , there won't be any more this season . Judging from the ratings , this is probably it . It was a nice run while it lasted . I hope at least better things are in store for Ms . Greer and Chris Parnell .
Nursery Scandal is entertaining musical Van Beuren cartoon	Some dwarfs walk out of a tree and encounter the book " Mother Goose and Fairy Tales " summoning Mother Goose and her goose out . She and the goose fly out to a scarecrow who comes to life and embraces Mother Goose . Gooes gives a raspberry as the mother and scarecrow kiss . As this odd couple start dancing we see other nursery rhyme characters such as the Three Blind Mice and Humpty Dumpty do so too ! When they all catch the scarecrow and Mother Goose alone together , Mother Goose chases them back to the open-ended book as she grabs her goose by the neck and we fade out . Good music keeps this short entertaining from start of finish . I especially love the Three Blind Mice number with the mice in sunglasses stepping up a storm ! Well worth seeing for Van Beuren enthusiasts .
Madagascar : Escape 2 Africa was a pretty enjoyable Dreamworks Animation sequel	Today , I went with my friend who works at a movie theatre to see this Dreamworks Animation sequel to Madagascar which he had seen twice before . I remember enjoying the first one a few years ago but I waited several weeks after when this one premiered sometime last month . It was pretty uneven in spots but many scenes where Alex ( once again voiced by Ben Stiller ) either fights or dances were very funny to me . And hearing the zebra pal ( Chris Rock ) listen other of his species look , talk , and act just like him was also good for a laugh . And how sweet it was to hear Gloria the hippo ( Jada Pinkett Smith ) and that giraffe ( David Schwimmer ) declare their love for each other . Then there's those penguins , that lemur and his sidekick , and that small one being chased by a shark that provided their own amusements . And finally , there's Alex's father which is voiced by the late Bernie Mac ( who like myself and the woman who voices his wife , Sherri Shepard , was born in Chicago , Illinois ) . Mac is simply both humorous and touching in the right places and what a nice dedication they put for him at the end credits . No great shakes here but for all that , I really enjoyed Madagascar : Escape 2 Africa especially when those penguins took over the Dreamworks logo . . .
Dog Days is an amusingly sweet " Our Gang " entry	This Hal Roach comedy short , Dog Days , is the thirty-sixth entry in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . As the short begins , Jackie's dog is jumping over his owner and Mickey and Joe . Mickey's dog learns how to sit . Both Mickey and Jackie say to Joe afterwards , " Let's see your dog p'form that trick . " Joe tries to get his dog to fetch a stick but he runs the other way . Mickey's mother comes and makes her son keep an eye on his baby brother Mortimer who's laying on a blanket at the field the gang is playing in . After she leaves , Mickey gives that job to his dog who's on a leash . Instead , while Mickey goes with his friends to look at a gopher , the dog takes off his collar and drinks the milk bottle that's near the baby . The dog also drinks some of a cat's milk nearby . After Mickey finds out , he disowns him . In another part of town , society girl Mary is taking a ride with a horse pulling her open-air carriage . For some reason , the horse gallops quickly causing Mary to panic . The gang sees this and Mickey sends his dog to rescue her . He does by confronting the horse . Mary , grateful for the dog and his owner for saving her life , invites the whole gang to her birthday party . When they arrive , the mother does not approve of her daughter's new scruffy friends but reluctantly gives in after Mary causes a fit . After Mary blows out her candles and everyone has cake , Mickey asks Joe where his dog is . Joe goes to the room his dog is in and finds a litter of puppies ! After showing everyone what happened , Joe says to Mickey , " Let's see your dog p'form that trick ! " . . . This was a sweetly amusing " Our Gang " entry that brings more smiles than laughs but the kids personalities are so charming at this point that you get sucked in just the same . Of note here is the addition of Eugene " Pinapple " Jackson , who replaced Ernie " Sunshine Sammy " Morrison a few shorts ago . Eugene got his nickname from Hal Roach because of his clutch of hair . Speaking of Ernie , his father , Ernie , Sr . , plays the butler here . So on that note , Dog Days is not hilarious in the usual Hal Roach tradition but is a sweetly amusing tale that does not overdo the sentiment . P . S . Kudos to the YouTube poster for once again adding the LeRoy Shield " Little Rascals " score to this short .
Dick Tracy Meets Gruesome is worthy final series entry	I have long been familiar with Dick Tracy through first his comic strip when I was a kid in the ' 70s , then an Archie series that showcased animated comic strips , then an early ' 60s cartoon series from UPA , then Warren Beaty's 1990 movie and now from the last of four RKO Tracy movies from the ' 40s . As he had in some late ' 30s Republic serials and the previous RKO entry , Ralph Byrd plays the title character whose nemesis here is the other title character played by the legendary Boris Karloff . In involves a gas that paralyzes people for several minutes that makes it easy for Karloff and his cohorts to come in an rob a bank . Also in the bank is Tess Truehart ( Anne Gwynne ) who happens to be in a phone booth when the gas goes off so she isn't affected and calls boyfriend Tracy as the robbery takes place . Nicely dramatic and comedic use of freeze-frame throughout with subsequent action sequences an added bonus . Very good performances from Karloff and his cohorts Skelton Knaggs as X-Ray and Tony Barrett as Melody . The good guys aren't so bad either ! I liked Pat's line about doing business with Boris Karloff the best . Well worth seeing for fans of ' 40s series programmers . P . S . Jason Robards , Sr . plays the bank vice president here .
The Enchanted Drawing still retains some charm nearly a century or so later	J . Stuart Blackton is an unsung pioneer in the history of animation possibly because many of his short film projects had techniques that have been improved time and time again . Having said that , The Enchanted Drawing in which he draws a face with a cigar , a glass , and a wine bottle and proceeds to take many of those objects off the drawing in split-time seamless editing has an old-fashioned charm that still resonates some 107 years later . And the various expressions of the drawn man's face whenever any of these objects are taken from him must have truly enchanted audiences of the day . With this and Humorous Phases of Funny Faces , Blackton deserves some recognition for contributing to the art of animation .
My Little Margie : Kangaroo Story is funny if contrived	Freddie managed to sneak a kangaroo into the apartment . Margie wants to get rid of it . She puts it in a usually empty room . Her father Vern is expected to meet and entertain neighbor Roberta's father from Minnesota . He sees kangaroo in empty room and goes crazy unknowingly bumping into the Minnesota father . When Roberta introduces Vern to her father , father threatens to send daughter back home with him ! Having gotten rid of kangaroo , Margie tries to get him back to prove her father's sanity . Vern pays a zoo keeper to keep zoo's kangaroo in apartment for awhile . Charlie the doorman , who Vern also couldn't convince of kangaroo presence in apartment , is now seeing with own eyes and gets a little scared . Roberta's father still hasn't seen one since either one keeps moving when Vern tries to show him ! Finally , zoo keeper comes to get his pay and Charlie is in elevator trying to calm other kangaroo down ! Plot is often silly but is pretty funny in a " let's-see-how-we-can-top-this " kind of way . Willie Best as Charlie comes off best even though some of his mannerisms may come off as a little racist today . That's Hillary Brooke from The Abbott and Costello Show as Roberta . Worth seeing if you're interested in wacky ' 50s sitcoms .
Sneakers was a pretty entertaining , if partially confusing , thriller	Having just watched this early ' 90s suspense thriller about computer hackers ( I think ) for the first time , I was partially confused about some scenes though overall , I was a little entertained by some of the comedy elements that were sprinkled throughout . My favorite was between Robert Redford and Lee Garlington as Dr . Elena Rhyskov whose room Redford broke into . He , with his gang's help talking over his earpiece , try to convince this doctor of his good intentions and how he doesn't want her paramour ( a mathematician they're trying to catch red-handed ) to know about them . I especially laughed when Redford substituted " help " for " head " ! It was also good seeing Redford and Sidney Poitier in their only team-up though technically Poitier was supporting here . Dan Aykroyd was also funny about some " facts " only he believes . And most of the supporting cast , especially James Earl Jones , provided their own moments . So while I have reservations , I do recommend Sneakers .
Paul Blart : Mall Cop makes a nice time-filler for fans of likable Kevin James	After previously starring with Will Smith and Adam Sandler in their hits Hitch and I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry , respectively , Kevin James has his own solo success with this movie-Paul Blart : Mall Cop . It took a while for me but after the first 20 or so minutes , I was very willing to go for the ride and just laugh my ass off at the physical comedy that James provided especially as it seemed to threaten to get serious during the hostage scenes . Some of those bar scenes were especially funny . All I'll say now is , if you just want something to make you forget your troubles for a couple of hours , Paul Blart : Mall Cop makes a swell time to relax with .
So You Want to Be a Gambler is another amusing Joe McDoakes short	This was another Joe McDoakes short that I recently watched , this time on the TCM site . In this one , the character played by George O'Hanlon is a gambler who's always broke . But he keeps playing on from a pinball machine to poker to dice to roulette wheel . My favorite was the dice part where his partner gives him " Mexican jumping dice " in the guise of selling cigarettes . Boy , how those dice jump ! And then there's the poker sequence where a player there has an extra " hand " ! And dig how announcer Art Gilmore speaks of Joe's pinball playing as if it's a golf round especially when a kid almost ruins the bout ! So on that note , So You Want to Be a Gambler is another Joe McDoakes entry that's well worth a look .
My American Cousin is a fun look at ' 50s teen life in Canada	Having just seen the disturbing ' 95 teen film Kids and then the ' 71 pre-teen coming of age romance Melody , I grabbed one of my brother's tapes and watched for the first time the Canadian coming-of-age movie from 1985 that takes place in the summer of ' 59 , My American Cousin . The " My " of the title is one Sandy Wilcox ( Margaret Langrick ) , a twelve-year-old going on thirteen tired of being treated like a child by her parents . Suddenly , a cousin from California named Butch ( John Wildman ) arrives to the surprise of her parents . During the day or so he stays , Butch takes Sandy and her friends for a ride while also heavily flirting with a girl named Shirley . I'll stop right there and say this was for the most part light-hearted and fun with great performances by both Langrick and Wildman . Worth seeking out if you see it in listed in an upcoming TV section of your local paper .
Pest Pupil is an outrageous slapstick cartoon	Baby Huey is an overgrown kid duck that keeps annoying the other kids and the teacher . His mother brings in a tutor that has a German accent that made me think of Ludvig von Drake . While Huey causes trouble here too , he eventually redeems himself when he saves his tutor from a shark . On receiving his diploma , however , he cuts it to make a series of children dolls . . . This is one those slapstick cartoons that , no matter how stupid it all looks , you can't help but laugh at which I'm sure was the intention all along . So close your brain and just laugh your head off at an overgrown kid duck that reminds me of Junior in Warner's Three Bears cartoons . Oh , and to Sid Raymond , the voice of Baby Huey : Rest In Peace .
The Head and the Hair is another pretty funny episode of 30 Rock	Liz and Jenna are hot for two MSNBC employees that , because they don't know their names , are referred to as " The Head and the Hair " , Jenna for " the Hair " , Liz for . . . well , you know . Jack and Kenneth switch jobs for a day with Jack having to do such humiliating things like cleaning up Brian Williams ' dressing room after a night out . Tracy enlists two of his writers to help write his autobiography . Liz goes to the MSNBC floor to attempt to find " the Head " but finds " the Hair " walking by who asks her for a date . She agrees but finds herself uncomfortable with the place he picks out and walks . He follows her to a convenience store where they connect somehow . The next day , Liz calls Pete to fake sickness in order to make another date with " the Hair " when Jack walks by who lets it slide . Then they go back to his apartment and get intimate before . . . If you haven't seen this one I won't ruin the surprise for you . The same goes with Kenneth and Tracy . Pretty hilarious , if not gut-bustingly so , episode . My favorite scene is when Joss treats Jack like dirt and Kenneth confirms that he wasn't too rough . Oh , and congratulations to Alec Baldwin for his Golden Globe win . Maybe that will pick the ratings up a bit . Don't miss the game show gag at the end !
Burns and Allen in The Antique Shop	George comes to an antique store to buy a statue . The salesman keeps telling him he's not buying anything . It almost escalates into a fight until the manager fires him . The fired salesman exclaims that five minutes before he had simply started walking into work without even being hired ! He then asks how he can never keep a job before slamming the door breaking the glass ! The manager then points George to Gracie . George wants to once again buy a statue but Gracie goes into a hilarious tangent beginning with her belief that Abraham Lincoln was the first president of the United States ! It goes on like this for about five minutes until George mentions that he wants an unbreakable statue . Gracie attempts to prove the statues are such by throwing one on the floor . It breaks ! The manager comes back and throws one from another section . It also breaks ! George takes one to prove his is unbreakable . It also breaks ! Short ends by this point . Once again the routines that made George and Gracie a hit on vaudeville serves them well here . This was their fourth short . After a few more they would try features where they would achieve some success . Their most successful mediums , however , would be radio and television where they would end their career together after Gracie retired in 1958 . George would continue until his death at 100 in 1996 . But Burns and Allen endures forever .
Mighty Mouse Meets Deadeye Dick was another Terrytoon short I enjoyed	Just watched on YouTube as linked from the Saturday Morning Blog this Terrytoon cartoon starring Mighty Mouse . The villain he's after this time is the title character who's a western cowboy wolf who comes into a bar to order a real tough drink that makes him spin constantly around . Quite a few funny gags involving speed as well as feminine wiles abound here with the appearance of a buxom lady mouse attracting other wolves especially amusing as we watch them just go weak at the knees at the sight of her . Having not seen too many Terrytoon cartoons as a child , it's now a treat to find what I've been missing whenever I find these rare items on YouTube or elsewhere . So for all that , Mighty Mouse Meets Deadeye Dick is worth a look is you're a die-hard animation buff .
Beau Bosko is a highly amusing Looney Tunes cartoon short	Since the previous reviewer mentioned nearly everything that happens in this cartoon , I really have nothing to add except to say , yes , this is a very amusing Bosko cartoon . And what a treat that the musical sequences is mostly limited to the beginning and not played or sung throughout ! Of course , many of the things that happen here could probably have happened to Mickey and Minnie if Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising were still working for Walt Disney ! Still , anyone interested in early Warner Bros . animation before the likes of Porky Pig , Daffy Duck , and Bugs Bunny became the studio's stars should be satisfied with many of the Looney Tunes-Merrie Melodies from the early ' 30s that appear on YouTube . That's all , folks !
Bowery Daze is another Krazy Kat cartoon I just discovered on the internet	Just watched on Thadblog as linked from YouTube this Columbia / Charles Mintz cartoon starring Krazy Kat that was made just as the Production Code was really about to have an effect on the movie industry . This one takes place mostly at a saloon where Krazy is the bartender . Plenty of gags here involving inebriation ( that's drunkenness for those not familiar with the word ) , gambling , fighting , the female derrière ( or butt or ass for those once again not familiar with that word ) , and some gay stereotype behavior . The whole thing is put together with some enjoyable piano jazz music that brings a rollicking good time to the short . Not everything here is funny but the images are timed so compellingly that I didn't mind . So on that note , I say Bowery Daze is worth a look .
Happy Go Lovely is a highly amusing British musical comedy	A few years ago , I bought several $1 DVD's that contained two movies each . One of them had Three Broadway Girls ( an alternate title for The Greeks Had a Word for Them ) and this one , Happy Go Lovely . It's basically a backstage musical comedy that takes place in Scotland and concerns mistaken identity involving one of the dancers hitching a ride from a millionaire's limousine . Vera-Ellen is that dancer and-wow , what legs ! Ceasar Romero is her producer who takes a chance on her after the original leading lady leaves because he thinks she's dating the millionaire whose car I just mentioned . And David Niven is that rich guy who , when looking for Vera-Ellen , is mistaken for a reporter who's supposed to interview her but gets stalled by Romero . What I've just mentioned may be confusing but ( mostly ) makes sense if you're willing to check your brain while watching this charmingly screwball comedy with wonderful musical numbers as performed by the exquisite Ms . Vera-Ellen . Romero can be a bit frantic here but Niven becomes hilariously bemused throughout . The print I saw was actually pretty good considering its age and the fact that it's in public domain . And Vera-Ellen does pretty well with her lines since she's not really an actress . So on that note , I highly recommend Happy Go Lovely for movie buffs who love old-fashioned musical comedies .
Jack Meets Dennis is another amusing episode of 30 Rock	Liz is walking with her boyfriend Dennis to work . After he leaves , Jenna asks , " How's the sex ? " " Fast . And only on Saturday night , " Liz replies . Otherwise , it's not a very good relationship since he sells out-of-date beepers and attempts to sell them to Liz's staff during office hours . Tracy Jordan is upset at a tabloid depicting him as normal with a picture of him walking out of his apartment with a dog . " That was me walking backwards and , yes , I steal dogs ! " he says . To get some " street cred " back , he wears a fake tattoo on his face for a week . Meanwhile , Jenna gets some puffy lips after she gets interrogated about her age from Jack . She replies 29 . And Josh has been impersonating Liz Taylor who later exacts some revenge on him ! While all this is going on , Jack tries to mentor Liz about how wrong Dennis is for her but she'll have none of it . Jack then shows Liz a man she thinks he's setting her up with but Jack reveals he mentored him and now he's married to a Filipino woman with two kids . After Liz comes home with Dennis sleeping on a couch with a candle on his lap , she tries to break up with him but we later find he's now living with her . . . Funny episode , though a bit of a letdown from the previous " super-sized " one . Nice to see Liz and Jenna have more of a " best friends " vibe here . Especially loved the line about Jenna's puffy face from Liz : " It looks like someone boiled the water and threw it on your face ! " Loved Lonny Ross ' Josh and his encounter with Rachel Dratch's Liz Taylor ( along with the spotlight that only highlighted Taylor's eyes ) . Dean Winters is amusing as the clueless Dennis and I loved Baldwin's line about one of his beepers : " I'm expecting a call from 1983 . " With Jenna , Tracy , and Josh looking their worst during the dress rehearsal , the producer hopes for something to interrupt their program . Then comes a blackout ! After this show aired , NBC picked 30 Rock for a full season . Good for you , NBC ! And good luck to Tina and the rest of the cast !
Three-hour Live Earth on NBC had mostly enjoyable musical performances	Just finished watching the Live Earth three-hour concert version that I taped from NBC last weekend . Performance highlights include : John Mayer's " We Keep Waiting for the World to Change " , a reunited Genesis ' " Land of Confusion " , Alicia Keys ' " Mercy , Mercy , Me " which blended into Corrine Bailey Rae's version in the middle of the song , Kelly Clarkson's " Since You've Been Gone " , Roger Waters ' version of his group Pink Floyd's " Another Brick in the Wall " ( though I was surprised at it's inclusion ) and the recently reunited Police's " Message in a Bottle " . There were also good performances from Madonna , Bon Jovi , Trisha Yearwood and Garth Brooks , The Dave Matthews Band , The Black-Eyed Peas , and Duran Duran . Additionally , they showed snippets of musical acts in China , Japan , and Australia ( which showed an edited version of Crowded House's " Don't Dream It's Over " that I was disappointed with ) . All that plus hosts Ann Curry and Carson Daly interviewing public figures like Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Al Gore ( Curry ) and musicians like Keys and Matthews and actors like Rosario Dawson and Cameron Diaz ( Daly ) . All in all , a mostly enjoyable concert with important pro-environmental messages spread throughout ending with a clip of James Blunt singing " What a Wonderful World " .
The Source Awards is another amusing episode of 30 Rock	Liz accepts Tracy's invitation for all the " after-after-after " etc . parties . At many of these , she meets a nice African-American whose last name is Black and accepts a dinner invitation . At his office , Jack shows his new wine to Liz but after tasting it , they both get sick . Kenneth tells Tracy about encountering rap mogul Ridiculous whom Kenneth refused entry to Tracy's private parties at T . J . ' s request . Tracy gets upset just thinking of him and wants nothing to do with him . I'll stop there and say this was pretty funny though I had to rewind a few times to make sure I heard what I thought I heard during certain punchlines . Loved Wayne Brady's twist on certain black stereotypes and LL Cool J's satirical portrayal of certain rap celebrities . Nice to see Jason Sudeikis return as the flower guy from several weeks ago . The scene at the end certainly was surprising . Loved Tracy's Oprah impersonation . Hope enough viewers tuned in before the hiatus after next week . . .
Who Killed Cock-Robin was another rare Terrytoons short I was pleasantly surprised by	Just discovered this Terrytoons cartoon by Paul Terry and Frank Moser on the Saturday Morning Blog . It begins with several birds swimming in their bath bowl with one female having a long swimsuit diving from a high branch like she's Ester Williams ( even though she wasn't doing her famous dives at the time this short was made ) . We later encounter a cat who's trying to chase them away . To be effective , he drinks a dangerous potion ( that manages to unravel a skeleton ! ) that turns him into a Mr . Hyde-type creature . This creature shoots an arrow through the title character but despite this short's name , he survives while the police shoots the Hyde cat in pieces ! The end . This was a pretty amusing early ' 30s animated short with some atmospheric sequences and a nice operatic score . Besides what I just mentioned , I also was a little pleasantly shocked at the birds pulling that cat's tail when the feline was trying to invade their home just before his transformation . For all that , Who Killed Cock-Robin is worth a look for anyone interested in vintage animation .
Fireworks is another funny episode of 30 Rock	After his wife threw him out , Pete is adjusting with living in Liz ' apartment . Jack meets a West Coast executive rival ( Will Arnet ) who has a crush on Kenneth . Jack finds this out and has Kenneth ask him pertinent questions about his sexual orientation . The rival for his job has Kenneth tell him about Jack which gets Jack and rival in a showdown about who will make the better pitch in the next meeting . Tracy gets served a paternity suit Dr . Leo Spaceman ( Chris Parnell ) investigates which reveals he's a descendant of Thomas Jefferson . The other black employee , Twofer , also finds out his great grandfather fought for the south . They both recover eventually . Liz sees Floyd , the " flower guy " , going to church every Tuesday . She comes in and finds he's with Alcoholics Annonymous . . . I'll stop right there and say this was another hilarious episode with well chosen cameos by Maury Povich and Al Roker and in Tracy's dream , Alec Baldwin made a most funny Thomas Jefferson . I think it was after this episode aired that NBC announced that 30 Rock has been renewed for another season . And that it's now airing after The Office . Hope that translates into more ratings !
I finally know why my mom loves the musical Momma Mia !	Okay , so I finally saw what now seems to be my mother's favorite musical-her being an ABBA fan and all-in both stage and movie versions since she loved this when she saw it on her birthday last year and requested it for a Christmas present from me . Overall , it was indeed enjoyable despite the somewhat shallow characterizations and plot . Of the singing cast , Meryl Streep comes off best and Pierce Brosnan the worst . In fact , I wished he and Colin Firth had switched roles since Mr . Firth is the much better singer . Of the supporting cast , both Julie Walters and Christine Baranski had good vocal chops throughout while Stellan Skarsgard was adequate the few times he sang . Then there are the young leads Amanda Seyfried and Dominic Cooper who both warbled in fine form . Nice cameos by both former ABBA members Bjorn Ulvaeus and , in the " Dancing Queen " number , Benny Andersson on the piano . Overall , Momma Mia ! The Movie was a very enjoyable experience . So to anyone who doesn't mind a little frothy entertainment , that's a recommendation .
Porky's Last Stand was another Bob Clampett cartoon I enjoyed	Just found this rare Porky Pig-Daffy Duck cartoon directed by Bob Clampett on the Misce-Looney-ous blog as linked from YouTube . In this one , Porky runs the title stand that claims " Our Fried Chicken Has That Real Fowl Taste " with the Special being the " Sheridan Salad with plenty of Oomph and no dressing " ! Daffy , his assistant , tries to get a customer a hamburger but the mice ate it leaving this note : " Greetings Gate , you're a wee bit late . " ( The first two words were Jerry Colonna's to Bob Hope on his radio show ) Also , one of the eggs that Porky gets out of a mother hen , spouts a chick that complains about a " hot foot " when he cracks out on a frying pan before going back to his mom ! When Daffy spots a cow as potential burger , he chases him to a barn but then gets stuck with a bull that causes havoc to the leads for the rest of the cartoon . Perhaps not hilarious like other Clampett cartoons but amusing enough for me to recommend to any Warner cartoon completists out there . And dig the musical number in the beginning !
Hallelujah ! is King Vidor's All-African-American Opus	King Vidor had always wanted to make an all-black feature . Hallelujah ! was his chance in the early talkie era . Zeke ( Daniel L . Haynes ) , a poor cotton farmer , falls for Chick ( Nina Mae McKinney ) who's a mercenary honky-tonk girl . After his younger brother gets killed in the line of fire , Zeke repents and becomes a preacher . Chick sees Zeke perform and initially makes fun of him but when she feels alone while the rest of the congregation follows him , she also repents . Zeke falls for Chick again watching her do so . Months later , Chick goes back to her two-timing ways with her previous paramour with Zeke eventually catching them red-handed . She dies in Zeke's arms after falling off paramour's wagon . After killing paramour , Zeke goes to jail eventually going back to work and family as movie ends . The two leads are good although only McKinney got some work in small feature roles and shorts . Her last notable part was in Pinky ( 1949 ) . If you're interested in early African-American film work , by all means seek this one out !
Ko-Ko's Harem Scarem is pretty entertaining despite some stereotypes	In Ko-Ko's Harem Scarem in the live-action portion , a man dressed in an ancient Middle Eastern outfit is waiting for his treasure . His assistant brings the chest and as it is opened , the ME man finds an inkwell inside . As he opens it , Ko-Ko and his dog Fitz come out . The man chops their heads as he exits and laughs . Feet appear under the clown and his dog's heads as the bodies get reattached . They enter the drawing above them that depicts Arabian backgrounds where they encounter a magician who makes Fitz disappear and points a palace to Ko-Ko as the dog's whereabouts . Ko-Ko goes there to retrieve him and sees through a keyhole a female dancer before getting interrupted by a black servant . He chases Ko-Ko until the clown challenges him to dice and wins . The servant points to where the palace head is as Ko-Ko disguises himself as a woman to get in . The head is fooled by the disguise so much he kisses Ko-Ko who spits the other way in disgust ! Fitz reappears at this point as he and the clown hug ! The head and another black servant ( who also shines shoes ) with a giant switch blade give chase as the leading duo go back to their inkwell leaving the others behind . . . While a pretty amusing entry in the Inkwell Imps series of Max Fleischer cartoons , there are some unfortunate stereotype characterizations that are deemed unacceptable today like the bug-eyes of the black servant when he sees dice or the other one who shoe shines , when he's sweating , has black sweats which he uses to polish a man's shoes ! Then there's a gag of when Ko-Ko's watching the female dancer through a keyhole as he's swinging his butt up and down and back and forth that almost suggests a sexual connotation that definitely wouldn't make it on Saturday morning television ! Still , worth viewing for any Fleischer enthusiasts out there .
Ko-Ko's Hpynotism is another amusing entry of Inkwell Imps for Max Fleischer	Using two special fake eyes , in this live-action segment a man uses them to hypnotise his dog into jumping in slow motion . He then gets an inkwell and , opening it , makes two drops of ink go on the drawing board and appear as Ko-Ko the Clown and his dog Fitz . He then turns Ko-Ko into a squirrel and Fitz into a nut as they give chase before the clown almost cracks the dog open with a nutcracker as their hypnotist laughs . He also turns them into two roosters fighting for a worm before turning them back and leaves . Ko-Ko and Fitz then encounter a haunted house where they're kicked by a lone shoe and bitten by dismembered teeth at the entrance before entering and finding a woman who teaches them hypnotism to get even on their boss . As they go back , they convince their tormentor to dive in the small fish bowl which gets stuck on his head as the clown and his dog go back in the inkwell . . . Among the gags I didn't mention : In order to teach Ko-Ko , the female hypnotist turns Fitz into a phonograph and her cat into a record which , when played , you hear what sounds like Cab Calloway singing as Ko-Ko dances . When the shoe kicks them and the teeth bites them , the clown and dog think they are kicking and biting each other and does likewise . And in the live-action at the end as the hypnotist prepares to dive in the fish bowl , he takes off his clothes except for shorts , puts a chair on his desk and jumps off it before his unfortunate end . Pretty amusing Inkwell Imps entry for Max Fleischer before sound made them mostly obsolete and Betty Boop would take over as the studio's main star . Oh , and the music that was added with sound effects and some voices as I watched this on YouTube was courtesy of Leroy Shield from the Hal Roach stock library as performed by The Beau Hunks from the last decade . Well worth seeing for Fleischer enthusiasts .
Julia Louis-Dreyfus ' second SNL stint is slightly less enjoyable than first	On the cold opening of SNL during St . Patrick's Day of March 17 , 2007 , we see SNL Special Report : The Road to the White House printed on screen . A figure turns around in his chair . It's Chris Rock ! Talking about the Republican side of the upcoming election next year , he says about Rudolph Guiliani : " He's like a pit bull . He can handle a crisis well enough . Otherwise , he'll just try to eat your kids . " Then in talking about Barack Obama and Hilary Clinton , he compares the difference in oppression between White Women and Black Men . Like " When White Women went on the bus to protest , who do you think gave up the back seat for them ? " Of course , Rock also mentions how loved White Women are : " White Men love them . Black Men REALLY love them . " Then he says , " Live from New York , it's Saturday Night ! " During the monologue , Ms . Louis-Dreyfus shows her Emmy-win clip ( with her kissing husband and fellow former SNLer Brad Hall ) and then when she shows the Golden Globes clip , it shows her throwing up in her drink after America Ferrera is announced as the winner . Then another clip is shown of her arriving in a limousine without any panties in a parody of recent exploits of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears . First sketch is Oprah ( Maya Rudolph ) promoting a book on positive thinking with her guests the author ( Amy Poehler ) and a divorced woman ( Julia ) who's trying to get her husband back . She's now on a restraining order but still smiling about it . Then we cut to Keenan Thompson who's in another country saying he swallowed the pages . Oprah responds , " And digest every word ! " Next , a filmed commercial parody with Kristen Wiig plugging gold you can wash your face in . Just about everything in her room has something to do with gold . Like the picture of GOLDIE Hawn . Or the orange juice from Florida GOLD . Following that , Jason Sudeikis is Julia's husband who's come home late . After arguing , he admits he has Restless Penis Syndrome . Suddenly , Dr . Thompson comes in and confirms that diagnosis . Then Bill Hader walks in front of them and announces in PSA style , which only Julia is surprised is being filmed , " a cure will take years " . " Decades " , says Sudeikis . " Decades to find . " After real commercial break , Julia as herself goes on an Italian talk show with Hader as host . Unfortunately , Ms . Louis-Dreyfus can't speak Italian as Hader argues in native tongue with his producer ( Fred Armisen ) , who's eating spaghetti , about language problems . Fortunately , he does a mean Kramer . His daughter ( Rudolph ) comes on hoping to get on Julia's " New Christine " show . She's awful . Sketch ends with a giant ostrich costumed man with beak poking at Julia's head . Snow Patrol performs their first set after this . On Weekend Update , Poehler mentions Simon Cowell's 60 minutes interview and an account of his concerning a couple making love in front of him with him judging the results afterward . " Fortunately , Randy and Paula changed their minds at the last minute . " Seth Meyers mentions a study that eating salmon can give you a good disposition . " Refuting that study , grizzly bears . " Armisen appears as Judge Larry Seidlin , the one who presided on the Anna Nicole Smith case , supposedly commenting on the Attorney General's firings but talks instead of being humiliated by escaped monkeys while walking a cart in a zoo job . Amy , in celebration of St . Paddy's Day , drinks two pints and comes on to Seth before Seth gives her some coffee . With that over , it's on to Deep House Dish , that music show on MTV 4 with Keenan and Andy Samberg presenting Legguns ( Poehler , Wiig , Rudolph ) , Dee Dee Wells ( Louis-Dreyfus ) , and DJ Quality ( Sudeikis ) . " Meat , yeah ! " Wells exclaims when she answers why she puts chili in her hot tub . Then Julia as herself again films a CBS Cares PSA with the director ( Hader ) having trouble with boom man Sudeikis . After two takes with mike seen above Julia's head , Hader suggests below her body out of camera view . On final take , with Ms . Louis-Dreyfus exasperated at this point , she gets her take as the mike see-saws up and down out of frame . Next sketch has one married couple ( Julia and Jason ) showing another married couple ( Bill and Kristen ) their robot butler ( Will Forte ) serving food and then dropping it . After he starts to make love with another robot ( Armisen ) , Bill and Kristen leave . After both robots malfunction , another one ( Keenan ) comes and offers a threesome . Following Snow Patrol's second set , Julia judges with Andy and Keenan , The Search for the Next Pussycat Doll with finalists Amy , Kristen , and Maya . " We're searching for the best singer and dancer . . . ( turns to someone off camera ) Oh , we're not ? " Credits start to roll after Julia thanks everybody . . . This was Julia Louis-Dreyfus ' second stint hosting her former stomping grounds . Not as funny as the first time , she at least is playing different characters than the mostly neurotic ones on the previous show . Her best performance was her Dee Dee Wells on DHD especially the meat comment while her best sketch was the CBS Cares one . The worst skit was the gold one which was a wasted effort the whole time . The best sketch overall was the Chris Rock cold opening which makes hilarious fun of White Women unable to elect a women president ( " What are you bitches waiting for ? " ) and Blacks wanting to elect one of their own every year ( " Obama would be president , Oprah would be president , O . J . would be president . . . " ) and , in answer to if America would be ready for a black president , " Why not , we've already elected a retarded one ! " This was a pretty good , if not great like the last JLD one , show .
I Married Joan : Country Club is pretty hilarious	Joan and Bradley have another couple at their house in which the wife talks about her golf swing . Joan feels left out because she doesn't play golf and her husband declines to join a country club because he doesn't want to leave wife alone . So Joan takes golf lessons . With Sheldon Leonard as her instructor , the lessons are disastrous at first . Then he tells her she'll never be good and Joan hits one out of the ball park ! As she continues practicing at home , Bradley calls and mentions the country club committee is coming and that they're old-fashioned . So Joan gets an antique grandfather clock , a spinning wheel , and someone's old family album to impress their visitors . She also makes some saltwater taffy that results in some sticky situations ! How this gets them into the country club membership I'll let you find out for yourself . Suffice it to say , this is one of the better episodes with hilarious scenes with Leonard and that taffy sequence that must be seen to be believed ! Worth seeing for Davis ' physical antics alone .
Mr . Money Gags is a very amusing Famous cartoon in late-'50s UPA-style	This was one of the late Famous cartoons done in the style of the UPA-inspired limited animation look . Tommy Tortoise is driving from Hicksville to New York where he encounters Moe Hare as a cheating gambler who keeps trying , and failing , to swindle Mr . Tortoise out of his money . First Moe does the shell game , then 8-Ball , then dice , and finally , horse racing bet . There's a neat twist at the end . All I'll tell you is that the Tortoise does triumph here . Izzy Sparber is credited as director but most of the animated short's look is that of lead animator Al Eugster . I saw this highly amusing cartoon with the Harvey logo attached on YouTube as linked from Thad's Animation Blog .
Mr . Strauss Takes a Walk is fine for exposing a new generation to classical music	Mr . Strauss Takes a Walk is a George Pal Puppetoon that purports to tell the story of how famous composer Johann Strauss got the inspiration to write " Tales of the Vienna Woods " . We see him going to the woods to observe all the animals doing what comes naturally to them . As all this is going on , Strauss writes musical notes on his bib . After he is finished , he conducts an imaginary orchestra in front of his animal audience and also imagines wooing an imaginary woman who looks just like him ! He then says good night to all the forest creatures ( even a skunk ! ) as he leaves and him and the narrator bid us goodbye as the short ends . . . Pretty entertaining with one big laugh at the end . I first heard " Tales of the Vienna Woods " in A Corny Concerto , Bob Clampett's spoof of Disney's Fantasia so the music here was very familiar . It's cartoons like these that exposed me and I'm sure many others to many classical pieces that probably might've faded away today , if not completely disappeared , in today's more exclusive musical tastes of certain markets . So I'm glad for the timeliness of films such as these . Definitely worth seeing for Pal and classical fans .
The Magic Lantern is enjoyable Georges Melies short	Georges Melies really outdoes himself in The Magic Lantern . We see two clown-like men assembling a giant projector lantern where we see film of some couples talking . Then it opens to reveal some dancing girls followed by one particularly athletic one . Then they close and open the lantern to reveal some more girls , this time some slow ballet dancers . Then the police come as the clowns close the box lantern again . When it opens again , we see a jack-in-the-box-like creature moving his neck up and down constantly . At this , the police run away as all the dancing girls come back as we fade out . While enjoyable , I wish the version I saw had some music scoring instead of complete silence . Well worth a look for Melies fans .
The Museum is a pretty entertaining Toby the Pup cartoon	The Museum is a Toby the Pup cartoon from Charles Mintz that I just saw on Google Video . This is one of those many typical musical cartoons made in the wake of the success of Steamboat Wille , the first successful sound cartoon that made Mickey Mouse a star and Walt Disney famous . By comparison , Toby is one of the many Mickey-inspired impostors now forgotten likewise Mintz who's most famous for taking away Disney's Oswald the Lucky Rabbit character after Disney asked for more money allowing him to create The Most Famous Mouse of All . Anyway , this cartoon has Toby working as a janitor in a museum with ( literally ) a lion of a boss watching over him . As the cartoon goes on , the statues come to life dancing up a storm while the pup plays a harp made from a rake head which was originally a mop head . ( Animators were so creative at this time ! ) Pretty entertaining and certainly worth a look for any animation fan .
Oswald the Lucky Rabbit in The Mechanical Cow is amusing	The Mechanical Cow is the first Oswald the Lucky Rabbit cartoon I've ever seen . If the plot seems familiar , maybe because it's done by Walt Disney before he lost Oswald to the character's copyright owners and started his own studio to create Mickey Mouse . The rabbit gets waken by an alarm clock who punches him in the face . He then tries to wake the title character who takes awhile . When they're both up they ride into town and come across a hippo mother and baby . Oswald feeds the baby with a giant bottle he takes from the mechanical cow's " body " and , with a tube attached , siphons it to the baby . Oswald then visits his rabbit girlfriend and he shoos the cow away so they can be alone together . Moments later , the girlfriend gets kidnapped by some dogs ( I think ) and the cow comes back to help Oswald rescue her . They find the kidnappers who chase after them after the girlfriend is rescued . Oswald , the girlfriend , and the cow stop at a cliff and wait for the kidnappers to fall into a pit of sharks below before the rabbit , his girlfriend , and cow ride off into the sunset . The end . Amusing from beginning to end . If you're interested in Disney's pre-Mickey creations , this Oswald short is highly recommended !
A Piece of the Action provides an enjoyable final teaming of Poitier and Cosby	In reviewing films involving African-Americans in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now at 1977 with A Piece of the Action . This is the third and last teaming of Sidney Poitier and Bill Cosby and the fifth directorial effort of Poitier . Before I go on , I'd just like to note that this movie takes place and is filmed in Chicago , Ill . , which was where I was born and lived for the first six years of my life . The music composer , Curtis Mayfield , himself was a Windy City native . Also , since I'm now a Louisiana resident , I'd like to mention that one cast member-Eric Laneuville-is from New Orleans . Okay , here's the premise : Both Cosby and Poitier , separately since they don't know each other in the beginning , have taken large amounts of money from the bank and the mob , respectively . James Earl Jones , as a retired police detective , blackmails them to work at a community center to avoid going to jail . I'll stop there and say while there's plenty of laughs from both of the leads and some of the characters that surround them ( love the parents and relatives of Poitier's girlfriend Nikki , one of whom is played by " Good Times " Ja'net DuBois ) , this was also a pretty serious movie about getting ghetto kids to get honest jobs with Poitier acting like his teacher role from To Sir , With Love with good results . Also loved Cosby's flirtations with Denise Nicholas and the way she laughs at his lines and faces . Oh , and the janitor , Mr . Theodore is played by Sidney's older brother Cyril . While the film is pretty long and some scenes are short-cut with a line , this was a pretty enjoyable movie that made me a little sad that Poitier choose to concentrate on directing at the expense of his performing career for the next 11 years . When he did come back , however , he did manage to still entertain in various features and TV movies though he hasn't been in anything since 2001 . If what he did then was the last of his work , then at least he has a wonderful legacy . As for Dr . Cosby , his peak of success was to come with " The Cosby Show " which was one of the last enjoyable family sitcoms to come on network TV . For anyone wanting to see Poitier and Cosby as a team however , Uptown Saturday Night , Let's Do It Again , and A Piece of the Action provide plenty of enjoyment for fans of both .
Camping Out was another early Columbia / Charles Mintz cartoon that starred Scrappy	Just watched this Columbia / Charles Mintz cartoon starring a now-forgotten character . A boy named Scrappy . Here he's driving ( What ? An underage boy driving a car ? Oh , well , this is just a cartoon so anything's possible here ! ) himself with his little brother and a dog to camping grounds . All that happens here is done to a musical beat with the public domain song " Turkey in the Straw " being among the selections in the score . Quite a few bizarre things happen like when a fire goes up , it burns the skin off of some owls revealing their naked bodies and legs ( though no frontal parts are shown ! ) . Also , when the dog gets himself stuck on a chopped tree trunk lying on the ground , some squirrels play with his tail like an instrument . This was another vintage and obscure cartoon that I was glad to have found on YouTube . So on that note , I say give Camping Out a shot .
Gypped in Egypt is an entertaining early Van Beuren Aesop Fables entry	Gypped in Egypt is a Van Beuren Aesop Fables entry that features a cat duo-one tall , one short-who seem to be the precursor of the humans , Tom and Jerry , Van Beuren introduced a year or so later . They somehow get stuck in Egypt where they encounter various skeletons-one of whom plays a mean swinging " Chopsticks " on a piano with the short one playing along . There's also some dancing with some hieroglyphics joining in . The cat duo later encounter another skeleton who takes them up on an elevator up a monument only to leave them outside at the top . I'm sure you can guess what happens after that . No real plot to speak of but entertaining enough on merits of movements that dominated many of these cartoons of the ' 30s . Worth seeing for any animation buffs of Van Beuren .
El Hotel electrico is a fascinating early use of stop motion photography	Just saw on YouTube what must have been one of the earliest uses of stop motion animation in history . In summation , as baggage is checked in that baggage moves by itself to a room where it opens itself revealing lots of brushes that now move out . We next see a man and a woman sitting down before we see the man's boot get unbuckled by itself . With the boot off , a brush moves itself up and down on the front end . We next see the woman's coat come off by itself before her hair gets a thorough brushing-also by itself-before the hair ties itself into a bun . Then comes a scene of a man in front of a wall full of electrical switches . As he pulls one large switch down , we cut to a scene of various chairs and other furniture moving in chaotic ways as the short ends . . . Primitive but still fascinating look at trick photography in the early 20th century . Must have truly awed audiences back then . Definitely worth a look for silent film buffs .
The pilot for Andy Barker P . I . is moderately amusing	Andy Barker P . I . is Andy Richter's third try at a series since he left Late Night with Conan O'Brien in 2000 . This pilot is moderately amusing with Barker opening his own CPA office above a video store owned by Simon ( Tony Hale ) . Also occupying space is a Middle Eastern restaurant whose owner has a " Down with MSG , Up with USA " sign on his door to show his patriotism . A Russian woman played by the Orbit spokeswoman asks Barker to look for her presumed deceased husband . She leaves the card that identifies the office's previous occupant : a former private eye who's now in a nursing home . I loved the sequence that has a Sandra Bullock doll quoting her line from Miss Congeniality and Andy and Simon debating the merits of that movie and its sequel . Good support from Clea Lewis as Andy's wife and Harve Presnell as the retired P . I . who helps Andy on the cases . Can't wait for next weeks episode . Co-written by O'Brien and Jonathan Groff .
Woody Woodpecker gets his comeuppance in Ski for Two	Having been watching many cartoons on the Saturday Morning Blog , I rediscovered this Woody Woodpecker cartoon there . In this one , Woody goes to a lodge to get some food . That lodge is owned by one Wally Walrus and he is strict about no trespassers unless by reservation . But of course , that doesn't stop Woody who even dresses as Santa Claus in the month of October to fool Wally . . . In many of these cartoons that star this obnoxious woodpecker , he usually wins in the end but while many of the tricks he does to Wally are funny and one might cheer for him even here , Wally does get even and Woody does deserve it . So on that note , I highly recommend Ski for Two .
Gracie's Bully is another funny episode of " Back to You "	Kelly takes her daughter Gracie to the TV station for her class field trip since Gracie doesn't like the bus especially not with a boy who keeps pulling her hair there . Montanna wants to avoid a report on a flood since she can't pronounce the river's name . Gary bets Marsh he can't go through with " Casey at the Bat " in front of the class without crying for $150 dollars . And Chuck tries to threaten the bullying boy after he once again pushes Gracie but Kelly puts a stop to that before she herself gives the boy an ultimatum . That boy calls his mother ( Charisma Carpenter ) who confronts Kelly while Chuck , seeing how hot she is , shamelessly flirts with her . And Gary almost finds out about Gracie's connection to Chuck and Kelly . . . A pretty funny episode of " Back to You " that improves from the one that aired two weeks ago . Especially liked the ways Montanna kept mispronouncing the river's name and her jealousy of a young girl from the field trip constantly getting the word right when she practices her weather reporting duties ! Also liked the large kid that reminded Ryan of himself and Charisma's character naming her son " Xander " after the character on " Buffy the Vampire Slayer " whom Cordelia sometimes had an affair with . Also loved the constant hitting in the ears between Chuck and Kelly . Hope enough viewers have seen " Back to You " to ensure a continued run past this just-started writer's strike that threatens to halt production of all scripted shows for the rest of the season . . .
The Cure is amusing old hat animation from Max Fleischer	As Ko-Ko and a rabbit are drawn in a forest , Ko-Ko has a toothache . When he asks why , Max says , " Shut up ! " as we see him also have one . The rabbit then tries to pull the tooth manually before he asks for help . Max obliges by drawing an instrument that pulls teeth . When the rabbit uses it as he pulls , he notices a big bump form on the top of Ko-Ko's head . He pushes it back only to form on the clown's back . Then he pushes it only to form on the clown's face where his lips are ! Finally , he pulls a whole apple out of the mouth curing Ko-Ko . They then turn to Max who is using laughing gas on his mouth as they tie a rope to the bad tooth . Max doesn't want them to do it till he's asleep so as Ko-Ko and the rabbit pull , Max draws on his paper that , when the clown and rabbit are in the dentist's office , is revealed to be a lion they've been pulling into ! The lion wants his tooth pulled out . As Ko-Ko looks on , the rabbit goes to the waiting room where a worm asks to be next . He changes his mind , however , when he hears gunshots ! Turns out Ko-Ko killed the lion and made him into a rug when the lion threatened to eat him ! Next , comes a dog whose weak eyetooth gets glasses and a cap , a bird who gets an actual plate on his beak , a clam who gets some dismembered teeth , a walrus that gets an actual miniature bridge between his two teeth , and a rhino that gets a small actual crown on the spot where Ko-Ko pulled his nose tooth down ! Max , watching all this , puts the laughing gas in the drawing where everyone laughs uncontrollably . Ko-Ko then comes out of the board and goes with the hose inside Max's suit sleeve and points it at Max as he is now laughing along with the furniture , his car outside , and the building he inhabits ! Before his employees come back to work , Ko-Ko pulls the rope on Max's tooth with him attached as he's being moved through the floor until he bumps at a wall and finally gets his tooth out ! Ko-Ko and the rabbit now go back in the pen which Max closes . . . Pretty amusing excuse to put gags that have double meanings , The Cure is probably old hat for today . Still , it's worth a look for anyone interested in seeing the early stages of mixing live-action and animation in the early 20th century .
The Duke Is Tops is noted for being Lena Horne's film debut	The only reason The Duke Is Tops , one of several " race movies " made during the times of segregation , would be worth noting today is because it made the film debut of a 21-year-old singer named Lena Horne . She plays Ethel Andrews , a singer who has to leave her producer mentor Duke Davis ( Ralph Cooper ) in order to branch into the big time . Davis , however , has to fake having taken the money for her services in front of her so she won't feel sorry for having done so . He then teams up with Doc Dorando ( Lawrence Criner ) for a series of medicine shows throughout the south . Meanwhile , in New York , her new producers have bombed big time because they made her the whole show instead of simply the specialty act . Davis finds out from the radio and offers his services as producer and band leader to bring his lineup of other specialty acts , many of whom make their one of their few or only film appearances here , for his chance at the big time with Ethel next to him . Guess what happens ? While the plot is the kind you've seen in thousands of other movie musicals during this time , the fact this was made for a certain audience makes this one of the more fascinating features I've seen during this Black History Month . Ms . Horne's singing is on good display here and it's interesting seeing her so young before her professionalism takes full hold later in her career . Among other supporting players there's an unconfirmed , according to IMDb , appearance by Lillian Randolph , Annie in my favorite movie It's a Wonderful Life and sister of Amanda Randolph who I just saw in the musical short The Black Network , as the woman with Sciatica who complains of not being cured after taking the Doc's medicine before Duke explains it's for the feet ! And as a longtime Louisiana resident , I'd like to take note of two players from here in this movie : Joel Fluellen from Monroe as a tonic customer and Marie Bryant from New Orleans as the sexy dancer who appears near the musical climax . So for just Lena Horne alone , The Duke is Tops is worth seeing at least once .
The Tree's Knees is interesting early Warner Bros . cartoon	Since the previous reviewer mentioned most of the story and gags , I'll just mention once again that the two mice in this short-as in many Harmon-Ising cartoons-bear a resemblance to a certain Famous Mouse from Disney except this time , besides the fact they are so small , they also wear no clothes ! Most of the gags are indeed pretty unusual by today's standards though many of these types were common in many ' 30s cartoons particularly the musical ones . Watching this , I was reminded of Flowers and Trees , Disney's first three-strip Technicolor cartoon that won the Oscar two years later . Mainly because of the human-like trees and the way they made music . So , in summation , The Tree's Knees is highly recommended for anyone interested in early Warner Bros . animation before Tex Avery and many of the characters created in his wake gave the studio a new attitude . . .
The pilot of Back to You brings Grammar and Heaton back to familiar turf	At the start of the pilot episode of " Back to You " , we're in Pittsburgh-1996 , at a news desk on New Year's Eve where anchorwoman Kelly Carr ( Patricia Heaton ) says goodbye to her partner of six years , Chuck Darling ( Kelsey Grammar ) . Sportscaster Marsh McGinley ( Fred Willard ) is also there . 10 years later , Darling is in L . A . and-as revealed on YouTube-commits a profanity-laced blooper on live television . Now , he's back at his old station where he reunites with McGinley and Carr . It's an uneasy one with the latter . There's also a young news director who previously worked the news ' online division ( Josh Gad ) , a Hispanic weathergirl who prefers to be called a meteorologist-even though she's not really one ( Ayda Field ) , and a reporter who wants to be anchorman so he can avoid going on camera in front of empty buildings in bad weather ( Ty Burrell ) . There's also a twist at the end that I hope doesn't dominate the series premise throughout the season . Nice chemistry between pros Grammar , Heaton , and Willard and the rest of the supporting cast with a special mention of Burrell whom I previously liked on " Out of Practice " . Pretty funny pilot that I hope leads to more hilarious episodes and better ratings for this Fox sitcom .
Don't Tell Everything is a funny Max Davidson short from Hal Roach	Max Davidson is an unsung comedian of silent movies from Hal Roach Studios . Maybe the fact that he was obviously Jewish and therefore not very appealing to much of America at the time might have been the reason he wasn't very popular then and is pretty much forgotten now . Maybe some of his characterizations tended to be on the stereotypical side ( though I'm not too familiar with that to know what stereotypes there were about Jews ) . Anyway , Don't Tell Everything has Mr . Davidson and his teenage son , Spec O'Donnell , attending a party where he meets a rich widow . Because Spec plays some pranks ( such as using a rubber band to ruin James Finlayson's tricks ) , Max doesn't reveal his son to the widow . They get married ten days later and the son reveals in a note to his father that he's going to dress as a girl and become the maid in order to live with them . I'll just stop here to say there's plenty of funny set pieces like when Max gets his supposedly fixed car from a mechanic and finds out it's now falling apart , or his embracing his son while in ladies ' underwear while his wife-unbeknownst to him-is watching , or an earlier scene when Max and the widow are sitting on the couch and the son-through the back window-touches his father's face and Max thinks it's the widow touching him so he touches her face and she doesn't like it ! And , yes , Fin does his famous double takes that always make me laugh ! So on that note , I highly recommended Don't Tell Everything .
Second episode-A Cup of Kindness-was a pretty good one of " I Spy "	Continuing my reviews of African-Americans in film and television for Black History Month in chronological order , we're now at 1965 with the second episode of " I Spy " , A Cup of Kindness . In this one , Kelly Robinson's ( Robert Culp ) former mentor ( David Friedkin ) comes to his old pupil in Hong Kong for help in getting a component for him to avoid getting killed . Alexander Scott ( Bill Cosby ) lends a hand in helping Kelly distract some hotel proprietors from the safe that Scott and the former mentor are trying to steal from . . . It takes a while but there are some good action scenes and some humorous ones concerning Culp and a lady ( Irene Tsu ) that I found pretty amusing . Cosby doesn't really do much here except some small talk and setting up some explosives but does show some charisma for a person whose main profession at the time was stand-up . And there is one cute scene where he talks to a little Hong Kong girl ( Robin Lee ) in her language . " I Spy " marked the first time that a man of color shared a starring role in series television with his white counterpart . This particular episode I watched on the Net Nights section of the From the Archives blog . I've seen at least 4 more episodes on DVD that I checked from the library years ago . One with Don Rickles and one with Wally Cox from there were pretty funny . I'd have to see a few more episodes to really judge how good " I Spy " was but I liked what I saw so far . By the way , vintage commercials of the time were inserted between the scenes when I watched this .
Banty Raids was a pretty amusing final Foghorn Leghorn cartoon	Just watched this last Foghorn Leghorn cartoon on Daily Motion as linked from ThadBlog . In this one , a beatnik rooster-having been literally kicked out of one chicken coop-disguises himself as a baby chicken to get through Leghorn's place of residence which has lots of hens for the new guy to woo . . . Many amusing lines from the beatnik fowl on the order of " daddio " and the like . Also liked his familiar " Gee Whiz Willikens Golly Gee " that I originally heard Bugs do on " The Bugs Bunny / Road Runner Hour " ( with the same voice ! ) and the way that barnyard dog got knocked to pieces ! Well worth seeing for any Warner cartoon fan enthusiast .
Don't Look in the Basement is a pretty entertaining ' 70s B-horror film	I just discovered this obscure ' 70s horror movie while browsing on YouTube . For a low-budget effort , it has plenty of compelling moments in gradual pacing in leading to the surprisingly shocking finish . While there is one woman who takes off her shirt constantly , the fact that she's a nymphomaniac makes those scenes important to the story and there's one scene with the curly-haired young man as he attempts to seduce her that turned me on before his pulling back made her screaming mad . The young nurse who comes in and gets hired is alluring herself and I'm not surprised she posed for the cover of Playboy . Some characters are very irritating and some scenes do seem ridiculous . For the most part , however , Don't Look in the Basement ( That's the title I saw on YouTube ) provides enough drama and chills for an entertaining B-movie .
Distractions improves on the last episode of Heroes	After Claire's dad finds Sylar still alive in his jail cell , Sylar knocks his glasses out and manages to lock him inside . He then shows him his driver's license ( which I tried to slow down to find his first name but it was too blurred . I read some other comments on this show and one of them said it only printed " Bennett " ) before escaping . Peter and Claude Rains the invisible man are walking down the street as Rains tests Peter by stealing a woman's purse and giving it to him to see if he can stay invisible . Unfortunately , the woman sees Peter with her bag and calls police . Claire asks her mom for permission to go to the aquarium with Zach covering up her real mission : to meet her real mom , who's living in a trailer park . While they're gone , Mrs . Bennett finds Sylar sneaking in the house but Sylar manages to sweet talk her into being friendly with him ( It's here that we almost find out her husband's first name but then starts addressing her dog's behavior ) . Hiro's father and his sister , Kimiko , want Hiro to become CEO of his father's company . Hiro manages to fix it so that his sister gets the job instead . Simone and Issac seem to rekindle feelings for each other as Rains and Peter discover them embracing which confirms Rains cynical view of people in general while Peter still believes in family connections . In jail , Niki's psychiatrist tries to get Jessica out and has the chair chained to prevent escaping . Unfortunately , Jessica breaks free and knocks out the doc possibly killing her . Niki is later told someone else confessed to Jessica's crimes with matching DNA so she is now free . However , Jessica has locked Niki in the mirror at home while she starts spending time with Micah . Mr . Bennet and Haitian man make a surprise return home before Sylar can kill Mrs . Bennet who once again has her memory wiped . Rains throws Peter off a 30-story building to test his powers . Peter lands on a yellow car but does survive perhaps because he was channeling Claire's indestructible powers then . He then is overwhelmed by the other abilities before Claude punches him . Finally , Claire's bio-mom calls her bio-father and we find out he's . . . Nathan Petrelli ! Wow ! A little better than the last episode as we get closer to the city explosion that will come later . So I'm guessing at this point , it will be awhile before we find out Clarie's father's real name . Not unlike the Janitor character on Scrubs . I think Ando's lines concerning his crush of Kimiko to be amusing . " I think she is starting to like me , " he exclaims . " What ? " , asks Hiro . Will Niki and Jessica ever co-exist cooperatively in the same body ? How long will Hiro fully regain his powers ? And where has Sylar escaped to and for how long ? All this and more should make next week even more interesting . Until next time . . .
Rabbit's Kin is a partly amusing Bugs Bunny cartoon	Robert McKimson's Rabbit's Kin is not a great Bugs Bunny cartoon but it does have a great voice for Bugs ' adversary here , Pete Puma , that of Stan Freberg's with that screeching laugh ( or maybe it's just some kind of disgust reaction ) . A little rabbit with a highly-speeded up voice is afraid of this puma and goes to Bugs for help . The rabbit manages to trick Puma to accept various number of lumps hit on his head whenever he asks him , " How much would you like ? " when referring to coffee or tea . Those scenes and that aforementioned screeching laugh were the most memorable parts of this short . The little rabbit himself named Shorty is pretty irritating . Glad he was a one-shot . Pete Puma would subsequently appear in a Foghorn Leghorn cartoon made in the ' 90s . Would like to see that one . Anyway , this is on Volume one of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection .
The Mouse and His Child was a very interesting non-Disney animated feature	After 30 years of knowing about this non-Disney animated feature , I finally decided to watch The Mouse and His Child on YouTube . The animation is both haunting and beautiful in many places . The characters are appealing when they concern the " wind-ups " and some forest animals and suitably creepy when displaying most of the rats . The story seems simple but some characters go on tangents about life that threatens to become pretentious after a while though that happens only for a few minutes . Not much of humor happens here though it was amusing hearing Frank Nelson as a crow , Andy Devine ( in his last role ) as a frog , and Cloris Leachman as , I think , a bird . I was pleasantly surprised to see in the end credits that of Charles Schulz Creative Associates as one of the companies involved . Oh , and one of the wonderfully weirdest scenes involved seeing the Bosco can show the dog posed with a picture of him looking the same in position ad infinitum ( to illustrate infinity ) . On that note , I guess that's a recommendation for The Mouse and His Child .
Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is one of the most sweet teenage romantic comedies of the year	When I was in Maryland to see my sister's firstborn get baptized , we both decided to see this movie when I was there . This was a nicely cutting edge teenage romantic comedy about two strangers played by Michael Cera and Kat Dennings who find out about their similarities only after their friends accidentally put them together . Cera still is pining for an ex he puts a mixed CD for while Dennings is friends with that ex . Michael's character is also a member of a band whose other members are gay while Kat's character has a girlfriend who likes to drink . And all this happens while Cera and Dennings and their friends ride around New York City all night looking for their favorite indie band . Plenty of sweet and funny ( and a little gross ) moments abound and while my sister and I might have a little problem with a sex scene with the leads , the romance was good enough to overcome that . So on that note , I recommend Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist . P . S . There are cameos of a couple of current SNLers I pleasantly noticed right away . . .
Gifts from the Air is a quite charmingly sentimental Columbia cartoon from the late ' 30s	In this Columbia Rhapsody cartoon , an orphan boy is looking at a toy store window and sees a toy soldier dancing whose limbs are so loose , the owner throws him in the trash . The boy then takes that toy soldier as his own and tells him how much fun their going to have when they get home . After the boy falls asleep , the wooden uniformed man turns on the radio as it plays music and we see Santa bring a bag of more toys to the home . Among them are a goat that sounds like Bing Crosby , an Ed Wynn-like fire chief , and a man inspired by long-forgotten comedian Joe Penner with a duck who asks Penner's catch phrase , " Wanna buy a duck ? " The boy , the wooden soldier , a cat who also lives in the house are having a swell time frolicking among the new presents as the cartoon ends . . . This obscure ' 30s cartoon is quite charming that I found on Uncle John's Crazy Town blog . If you like sentimental Christmas cartoons , Gifts from the Air should be right up your alley .
This was another wonderfully bizarre ' 30s cartoon from Japan	This was another weird and wonderfully bizarre Japanese cartoon from the ' 30s . In this one , planes stop at traffic in the sky like the cars below . And one of these planes is a cab that takes passengers . This cabbie , though , doesn't seem to be very good for humans since one of them has a bad encounter with this one after the cab goes into a black cloud that shakes all it's other victims out ! Instead , the cabbie seems more kind to animals like an eagle with a bad foot or a bear that also seems to be a bit handicapped . Other bizarre stuff happens here but I'll just say look this one up on YouTube . Oh , and there are no subtitles , just a Japanese woman narrating in her own language on a silent short with added music . It's under the title " The Plane Cabby's Lucky Day " .
The Proffer moves Vanished plots along	With Judge Wallace Rainer now confirmed , Senator Jeffery Collins waits for Sara to come home . Marcy , recovering from her miscarriage , asks her doctor to test her blood to find out if her condition was induced . At FBI , Agent Daniel Lucas gets a call from someone who contacted the late Agent Graham Kelton before his unfortunate passing . He asks Lucas to appear in a church confessional alone . Lin Mei comes as the only backup . At the place where Sara is held , she is watching video of her stepson blaming her for his-and by extension , his family's-unhappiness . Sara demands the set be turned off before she knocks it down . The woman in the next cell , a Deborah Hensley , wife of death row inmate Dr . Aaron Hensley , tries to console Sara before she gets taken out . At the church , Lin Mei recognizes blood on a painting as the same way it looked at the place where Sara was supposedly killed when she and Graham checked there weeks before . Lin Mei listens via earpiece to Lucas ' conversation with this contact who wants the circular piece Lucas found . Lucas only agrees to this when Sara is found . He furthermore states that his partner has a gun pointed outside . After deal is made , Lin Mei tries to indeed to arrest the contact only to find him quickly gone . Marcy's doctor calls and says that indeed her miscarriage could have been induced but offered no proof . Marcy tells Ben about her affair with Rainer included her rape by him two months before on the day of his nomination . We find out Sara's kidnappers wanted Rainer confirmed so he could possibly help overturn a case which , if this happened , would help free several convicts , including Dr . Helnsley . Senator Collins asks a female judge he also helped confirmed to say no to overturning said case . Instead , she recuse herself bringing the motion to a possible standstill . Roperter Judy Nash goes to Marcy hoping to get some info Marcy was supposed to give her but Marcy goes back at her word without explanation . At FBI , Lucas and Lin Mei have found on computer the whereabouts of Sara and arrive in a forest only to be caught in the crossfire while Sara escapes unnoticed . Lucas and Lin Mei hold up a couple of hunters who seem to have done nothing wrong . Then under the sheet in the back of the truck behind a dead deer , we see Sara . Before wrapping up , let me mention that Seantor Collins found out from his handler that his ex-wife left because she got more than a thousand dollars from the handler to do so , so the ex-wife has left no trace . This turns into a relief to Marcy who thought she simply abandoned her . As the hunters ' truck gets stopped in traffic , Sara gets out and identifies herself to the cop on duty . . . With only two episodes left , we are closer to finding out what the kidnappers ' intention is . And Ming-Na's character really was necessary this time in IDing certain past clues from when she was with Kelton . Now that Ben knows , is he looking to kill Justice Rainer ? And where did Mrs . Henlsley go ? I can't wait to find out ! Until next time . . .
" Swingtown : The Pilot " got me really intrigued by episode's ending	I just finished watching " Swingtown : The Pilot " four weeks after it aired . The ' 70s setting intrigued me from the start along with all the free love and music that came with it . I'm surprised IMDb didn't also mention a couple of songs that played here as anachronisms : both Rita Coolidge's " Your Love is Lifting Me ( Higher and Higher ) " and Fleetwood Mac's " Go Your Own Way " came out the summer after the ' 76 one depicted here . While the three adult couples were the main focus , I was more intrigued by their teen offspring . There's also a woman who snorts coke and her daughter who is planning to run away . It took a while during the hour but by the end I was hooked . Bottom line , I liked this pilot episode of " Swingtown " . I don't really feel like recapping here but I may when I watch the second episode so until then . . . P . S . CBS showed their old network promo of " Turn Us On , We'll Turn You On " before the program which was obviously a double entendre meant to raise a giggle though that slogan actually came from 1978 .
Ludachristmas ( or Episode 209 ) is another funny episode of " 30 Rock "	Liz ' parents and brother Mitch ( Andy Richter ) are coming over for Christmas as well as Jack's mother ( Elaine Stritch ) . Due to too much drinking , Tracy now has an ankle on him . While Liz seems to get along well with her family , even Mitch whose skiing accident at 17 causes him to relive the previous day over and over , Jack can't stand his mom and tries to ditch her at every turn . Tracy tries to join the rest of the gang for " Ludichristmas " but is stopped by Kenneth with a reverend in order to show the true meaning of the holiday . At the end , Jack's mom's attempt to show how dysfunctional even Liz ' family could be succeeds when a mention of The Goonies sends the entire reunion into a tailspin . . . Seeing veteran SNL host Buck Henry as Liz ' dad was a treat as was seeing Richter and the return of Ms . Stritch . Ms . Stritch , especially , was hilarious here . Was also amusing seeing Tracy Morgan use his real-life arrest for drunken driving come into play here . Of course , I do hope he's more careful next time . In the prologue , Jack shows Liz his new invention : a Photo Scanner / Paper Shredder . Since both have initials PS / PS , it's useless and everyone who gets it as a present throws it away even the children in an undeveloped country ! One more episode is left before the strike closed down production . Hope it gets settled by January . Glad to hear of Golden Globe noms this morning for the show , Tina Fey and Alec Baldwin . Good luck all !
I Don't Want to Make History is another amusing Screen Song cartoon from Max and Dave Fleischer	The setting is the New News Theatre with a sign saying " News Reel Scoops " with the awning literally scooping customers inside ! From there we see the newsreel with items from places like Wishy , Wash . Spot gags abound like a giant bullet inside a likewise gun taking travelers around the world to an easy parking car that squeezes other cars out of the way to make space ! There's also a Rube Goldberg-like device that wakes up the inventor among other visual vignettes . Then it's on to the title song performed by an unknown vocalist with castanets followed by bandleader Vincent Lopez telling us to follow the bouncing ball as the lyrics print on screen with that ball following along to when we should sing ( the whole thing is instrumental at this point ) . The entire cartoon short from Max and Dave Fleischer made smile from ear to ear as well as brought a few giggles . I found this on the Matinée at the Bijou site which linked this to YouTube . Well worth seeing for animation and Fleischer fans .
The Golden State is another amusing Famous Studios Screen Song cartoon	I went to the Matinée at the Bijou blog and found this rare Famous Studios cartoon short that had a " follow-the-bouncing-ball " line attached to it since this is a Screen Song short that features the song , " California , Here I Come " . Among the gags are the Big Chief train that briefly turns into a head of an Indian Chief , skeletons meant to represent " Spike Jones and Boys " dancing in Death Valley , horns playing when we get to Cape Horn ( to show how some South Americans also came to California ) , and Harpo Marx's footprints at the Grauman's Chinese Theatre chasing a woman ! Pretty amusing and worth a look for anyone who loves vintage animation . Oh , and in this one , " citrus " replaces " ball " .
Hot Sub with guest ( who's also the show's producer ) Ashton Kutcher improves on previous first episode of " Miss Guided "	In this episode , executive producer Ashton Kutcher guests as " educational wanderer " Beaux who's teaching Spanish during his stay . Regular Spanish teacher Tim O'Malley is worried about going back to teaching shop so when the principal and his vice check on him a day or so early , Tim calls Becky for help . Unfortunately , she gets interrupted by Beaux who kisses her ( this being one day after Becky found out Beaux likes her and not rival Lisa ) with the result being Tim got a D on his teaching skills . Looks like he's going back to his old class but Becky then finds out student Mandy ( Jamie Lynn Spears ) is deciding to not go to college after talking to Beaux . When Becky and the school heads find out he didn't go to college , Tim's job is safe ( though we find out he's two credits shy of an actual degree ) . . . This was a little better than the first episode and Kutcher is perfectly charming in his role here . Loved the way vice principal Terry keeps sucking up to him even after Beaux's firing ( Chris Parnell does it again ! ) . As Becky , Judy Greer shows both her venerability with Beaux and her support with Tim who she likes immensely . " Miss Guided " is shaping up to be a pretty quirky show about what it's like to be employed at the same high school that you went to working with some former fellow students . I think this one's a keeper . Now I'm going to review episode # 3 . . .
Cockatoos for Two was a not bad Columbia cartoon from an idea by Bob Clampett	This Screen Gems-Columbia cartoon was written by Bob Clampett after he left Warner Bros . The director , however , was Bob Wickersham . In this one , a Peter Lorre caricature is awaiting the arrival of a $6 , 000 parakeet from a friend . " Lorre " has just gotten tired of the same kind of dinner every night and wants a " new taste " so he thinks this bird is his answer . Just before this parakeet arrives , a thin yellow canary that was thrown out by " Peter " takes it's place in the delivery cage and asks for the " best of what I get " . " Lorre " obliges and when the canary sees her " new " figure she realizes what the purpose was as she's put in the oven . . . Plenty of verbal and sight gags worthy of Clampett abound here and while not as great as many of his Warner ones , it's much better than many of the mediocre and poor ones usually associated with Columbia . Found this on Thad's Animation Blog as linked to YouTube . Worth a look there .
Alice Gets in Dutch is highly amusing live-action / animated hybrid	Alice Gets in Dutch begins in live-action with the title character in a classroom with a lot of other kids , one of whom looks like Mickey Daniels of the Our Gang shorts , singing off-key . The teacher seems stern with her hair bun and glasses . The freckle-faced child who looks like Mickey starts to blow a balloon which he passes to Alice . Teacher notices Alice with balloon and takes it from her . When she pops it , it spreads ink on her face . Alice is sent to corner with dunce cap . She daydreams having animated fun dancing with musical animals . Teacher , with horns , comes out of school with books of reading , ' riting , and ' rithmatic walking behind her . They shoot cannonballs that hit Alice and her friends ( no real harm though , as this is just a cartoon ) . Alice and pals retaliate by shooting cayenne pepper from their cannon which causes the books to sneeze their cover and pages out ! When teacher retaliates by shooting pepper back , the cat on Alice's side accidentally sneezes his face off ! The animated teacher eventually pokes Alice with a cane as we fade back to live-action one doing the same as Alice wakes up . The end . Highly amusing short worth seeing if you're a Walt Disnty enthusiast .
Bug Vaudeville is a slightly fascinating Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend animated short	Bug Vaudeville is just that : a series of insects performing various acts ( boxing , dancing , acrobats , etc . ) while a man watches . Give Mr . Winsor McCay credit for detail in the insect drawings and , unlike his mosquito short , there's nothing frightening here . Well , except maybe near the end when a spider appears and seems to tear the man apart before our eyes but then he wakes up . . . Pretty fascinating of a bit more conventional for a McCay animation . Loved some of the humorous touches like the potato bugs " boxing " or the somersaults of a couple of other insects . Anyone who has major interest in all animation history especially that of McCay's should check this rare short film at least once .
While chaotic , The Captain's Christmas was a pretty enjoyable holiday cartoon starring The Captain and the Kids	Having just discovered this Christmas cartoon starring The Captain and the Kids on YouTube , I have to say-the plotting is all over the place what with peg-leg John stealing The Captain's disguise as Santa Claus , breaking into Mama and her boys'-Hans and Franz-house not to mention their toys and then vowing to make amends because of a crisis of conscience and not getting arrested for his previous doings ? Well , it is Christmas and forgiveness is ample here . Having said all that , there are some pretty funny gags here and I loved seeing John and his co-horts sing with their tongues moving up and down in rhythm and with Friz Freleng as director-having temporarily left Leon Schlesinger for M-G-M-you know you're getting some good musical animation . So with all that , I'll just be generous and recommend The Captain's Christmas .
Shuffle Off to Buffalo is another pretty entertaining Merrie Melodies cartoon short	Another Warner Bros . Harmon-Ising Merrie Melodies cartoon short produced in association with Leon Schlesinger that I found on YouTube . Using the title song for inspiration , Shuffle Off to Buffalo is a series of gags surrounding a baby making factory with storks delivering various nationalities ( and their representative stereotypes ) to the proper homes . There's also caricatures of Maurice Chavalier , Eddie Cantor , and Ed Wynn animated here . If you're of a certain race who's easily offended by the way certain characteristics of them are emphasized , you may want to stay away from this but be aware they're only used here for humor purposes with no malice intended . This was a mostly moderately humorous short that mixed fairly tales with modern conveniences and popular music to usually entertaining results .
Jackie Gleason : Genius at Work is a fairly good compilation of Gleason sketches	This special about The Great One is hosted by Jeff Garlin of " Curb Your Enthusiasm " . He basically just stands there and mentions many things about what makes Jackie Gleason what he was . His widow , Marilyn Taylor Gleason , is also interviewed about her late husband's work habits-such as his refusal to rehearse more than once-and about his characters that he showcased on " The Jackie Gleason Show " during the ' 50s . Among his characters that we see clips of : The Poor Soul , Fenwick Babbitt , Joe the Bartender , Rudy the Repairman , Charlie Bratton the Loudmouth , Reginald Van Gleason III , and , of course , Ralph Kramden . Of course , many of those clips also have second banana Art Carney in them especially the Kramden ones where he plays the scene-stealing Ed Norton . There's also an Audrey Meadows one in which she doesn't play Alice Kramden : a Reginald Van Gleason where she plays his girlfriend Monica who wants to marry him . Reginald responds by literally sending her to the moon ! Many other funny sketches abound though both Rudy and Charlie may be a little too obnoxious for my tastes . While I do love " The Honeymooners " , the scenes picked for this special seem to emphasize the arguments of Ralph and Alice too much and not enough on the great chemistry of Ed and Ralph and , by extension , Art and Jackie . I did love the " Can You Do This ? " game show sketch that Fenwick enters and many of the Gleason dances especially one where he danced with Marilyn . I also loved The Poor Soul sketch where he fails at bowling and the various Joe the Bartender monologues . And I admit liking one story Charlie told Clem ( Carney ) about his uncle , a garbage man . This special only showcased Gleason's work on his ' 50s TV variety show . Maybe someday someone with make a DVD box set of whatever surviving episodes from that era exists .
Up All Night is another funny outing for 30 Rock	Jack and his ex-wife , after being formally separated for 18 years , are getting a final divorce . Liz and the staff have to pull an all-nighter on Valentine's Day because Jack sent some food that poisoned many the previous night . It's during this time that many staff members do a Kill / Boff / Marry game about various celebrities before Frank says that he'd kill Jenna several times which insults the target who keeps overhearing . To celebrate his divorce , Jack tries to invite several individual staff members to party with him but only Tracy agrees to go as he hopes to spend some time with his wife later on . Tracy later leaves Jack alone at a bar when he gets a call from his wife . Jack finds a loose woman and invites himself and her to Tracy's just as he is getting it on with his wife . Pete has forgotten what day it was and tries to get balloons for his spouse . Liz receives some flowers and tries to find out who sent them . And the staff convinces Kenneth that Cerie is into him . . . Another funny outing written by star / creator Tina Fey is not as hilarious as Tracy Does Conan but comes close in some scenes . Loved the " pooted " line from Jenna after she farted just as she and Frank start to become friends . And Isabella Rossellini slays me with her " Damn it , Johnny , you know I love my big beef and cheddar " line when Jack threatens to sells his stock in the Arby's restaurant . Then there's the appearance by SNLer Jason Sudeikis at the end that explains where Tina's flowers and candy come from that I won't reveal here . . .
He's Just Not That Into You was a nice rom-com surprise to me !	If you were fans of the following television shows : " My So-Called Life " , " Freaks and Geeks " , " Friends " , " Alias " , " Ed " , and " Dawson's Creek " , then I'd highly recommend this movie to you as a player or two from each of those series are in this movie ! Among them : Wilson Cruz ( MSCL ) , Busy Philipps ( F & G and DC ) , Jennifer Anniston ( Friends ) , Bradley Cooper ( Alias ) , Justin Long and Ginnifer Goodwin ( Ed ) , and Sasha Alexander ( DC ) . Add Drew Barrymore , Jennifer Connelly , Scarlett Johansson , Ben Affleck , and Kris Kristofferson and you get a nearly all-star cast of this pretty amusing yet mostly entertaining multiple-character romantic comedy . Ken Kwapis as the director manages to mostly balance the various stories to their natural conclusions with not everyone getting the " happy ending " but some satisfied with their " life goes on " fate . And Long and Goodwin , both of whom had played characters romantically involved on " Ed " , are two of the most appealing players here . So on that note , I highly recommend He's Just Not That Into You .
Leroy's Suits is a pretty funny early episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy "	This " Amos ' n ' Andy " episode , Leroy's Suits , was the third in the show's television history . Kingfish's brother-in-law Leroy is moving out of his apartment and he wants all his suits there sold with the profits going to him . When the not-too-bright Lightnin ' gets the address on the phone from Sapphire , he inadvertently mixes the numbers . So when Kingfish and Andy go to the apartment number that Lightnin ' said to them , they unknowingly rob a police detective ! I'll stop there and say that the most hilarious scenes were when Kingfish and Andy read the paper of the robbery not knowing it's about them and then realizing it is them after the detective comes to Kingfish's place pretending to be a customer ! Seeing Algonquin buying a suit that's clearly too big for him is also good for some laughs . Another pretty funny episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy " . P . S . This one had a commercial from their sponsor , Blatz Beer , in the middle .
Voice of Hollywood pleased this fan of the silent " Our Gang "	We begin with Don Alvarado at the STAR radio station introducing various stars walking to the microphone outside of presumably a premiere . Among them : John Boles , Betty Compson , Bebe Daniels , Louise Fazenda , Ruth Roland , and Tom Mix without his horse Tony who's back in Peru , Indiana . Then Alvarado gets a fan letter requesting to see Original Our Gang members Mary and Mickey . They appear-16-year-old Mickey Daniels and 15-year-old Mary Kornman-ready to " fight " over who goes on first as we hear sound effects while camera cuts to Alverado . Back to them , Mary goes first with her adequate tap dancing ( part of this is filmed with her body and head with her feet off-screen ) . When Mickey starts to sing , he's told by Don they're out of time as they leave peacefully . Finally , Lupe Velez sings a song in Spanish from her then-current picture Cuban Love Song . This was a pretty entertaining short that must of pleased some moviegoers who were nostalgic for the old " Our Gang " shorts they saw when they were Mickey and Mary's age . I myself just discovered their episodes on YouTube and was pleased to see them in all their adolescent glory . This short , Voice of Hollywood , I also saw on YouTube as linked from Matinée at the Bijou . Worth a look for other old film buffs out there .
For Scent-imental Reasons is the Oscar-winning Pepe Le Pew cartoon	Like just about every Pepe Le Pew cartoon , there's a female cat who's mistaken for a skunk because of white paint that conveniently forms a straight line on the cat's back . As a result , Pepe falls madly in love with her while she is repelled and tries to escape with her running frantically and he just hopping along without a care in the world . That's the premise of the nearly whole series in a nutshell but this one has a twist at the end that makes For Scent-imental Reasons somewhat worthy of the Oscar it eventually won . In fact , I was pretty amused throughout most of the cartoon . And I always wonder how much of the French was real and how much of it was gibberish ! Ah well , Say la vie !
Landslide is appetizer to the Heroes season finale	In the last episode , Peter had given Claire a gun so she can shoot him when Peter's hands heat up . It had ended just like that so we now see Claire get her weapon but Peter now says , " Stop ! " Seems he can control his powers . Ted goes with them while Matt and HRG look for the tracker of special-powered people . Hiro is still examining his broken sword when Ando finds a sword repair shop in the Yellow Pages and calls the number . When they arrive there , Hiro's father is waiting and summons his son to a secret room while Ando waits . It turns out Hero's father knows about his son's abilities and trains him on sword fighting in order to more effectively kill Sylar . Unfortunately , Ando left to find Sylar by himself so Hiro searches for him before he gets killed . Micah seems to get along with Candace now though they still have differences over Cruel World ( Candace's view ) vs . mostly Wonderful ( Micah's view ) . Linderman comes and says he wants Micah to fix the voting polls to give Nathan Petrelli a landslide victory . Candace morphs into a black woman so she can pass Micah as her son at the polls to convince the pollsters of taking him to educate about the election process . Linderman also arrives at the Petrellis and cures Mrs . Nathan Petrelli's paralyzed legs in exchange for her support . Finally , he appears where Jessica and D . L . are and offers lots of money to agree to his plan but Jessica turns back to Niki who refuses . Linderman then shoots as D . L . stands in front of Niki to protect her then phases his hands to the back of Linderman's head as he takes his brain out . Sylar had overheard the conversation of Ted , Claire , and Peter and rats Ted to Agent Audrey Hanson as she arrests Ted who later gets his brain sliced by Sylar after Sylar makes the vehicle he's in turn over . In searching for the tracker , Matt and HRG find Thompson who threatens HRG . HRG shoots him . They then encounter Mohinder who knocks Matt down then pulls a gun on HRG who keeps his pointed at him while the tracker-little girl Molly-fears for her life . All this while Sylar's on the roof saying , " Boom ! " . . . Wow , a lot to ponder in the next-to-last episode of the season . All intriguing stuff but I want some action now ! Next week better be good , that's all I have to say . . .
Claudette Colbert fans should enjoy I Cover the Waterfront	With the title I Cover the Waterfront , I expected a social-conscience picture on the order of Warner Bros . ' then contemporary I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang . What I got was a part screwball comedy , part romance , part soap opera . Ben Lyon is the " I " in the title , a Joe Miller who hates his reporting job for a San Francisco paper because of non-event stories his boss keeps getting him . One of them is about a skinny-dipping woman named Julie Kirk ( Claudette Colbert ) who is the daughter of Eli Kirk ( Ernest Torrence ) , a man Miller is interested in because he believes Eli has smuggled some Chinese immigrants illegally . This being pre-Code , there are some scenes that wouldn't have made it past the censors after 1934 like the one where Lyon and Colbert tour an old torture ship and Ben tricks Claudette into getting chained into one of the ship's devices just so he can kiss her without resistance ! And she likes it too ! There's also a brief picture of a nude woman in another scene . Witty lines dominate the first half with the two leads while the conflict between Colbert , Torrence , and Lyon takes part in the next in mostly compelling fashion resulting in a pretty satisfying denouement for those who believe in heartfelt conclusions . Well worth seeing for Colbert enthusiasts . P . S . This was Ernest Torrence's final movie .
A Close Call is good early sound Aesop's Fables short	The short starts with a mouse playing some bell-like tulips like musical bells . He then dances with his girlfriend whose skirt falls in the middle of the number ( leaving only her panties ) . Her partner plays that skirt like an accordion until she takes it back ! A cat is driving on the highway and stops to try to get alone with the girlfriend mouse . When the cat chases her to an abandoned barn he offers her pearls . The girl mouse throws them back in the cat's mouth . The boy mouse crashes through the locked doors and attempts to fight the cat but the cat manages to tie the boy mouse to a log about to be sawed . The girl mouse calls for the Northwest Mounted Police mice ( on regular sized horses ! ) to come to rescue her boyfriend . They manage to defeat the cat and one of them pulls the lever that operates the saw and it breaks ! Don't worry , he pulls an extra one out of thin air . Boy and girl mouse are reunited and they get married as we hear the strains of " Oh , Promise Me " . The reverend mouse silently marries the couple as each says " I do " ( the boy mouse sounds a little like Mighty Mouse when he says his only line ) . The reverend then ties the married couples tails together as the choir now sings " You're In The Army Now " . The boy mouse is frowning during this number until his wife kisses him . They embrace for a long clinch as we iris out heart-shaped style . Then a little mouse with a big dog next to him gives us the moral : " All's Well That Ends Well " before the dog elongates his tail and beats the mouse down the ground forming a hole . Then the still picture of cartoon character dogs with the " suger coated pills of wisdom " sign in place of " The End " appears . This was one of several Aesop's Fables cartoons made by John Foster and Harry Bailey after series creator Paul Terry left the Van Beuren Studio to start his own Terrytoons . If the mice bear some resemblance to Walt Disney's Mickey then it should be noted that Disney based his beloved character animation on many of Terry's Fables . Nevertheless , it is possible that Disney sued Van Beuren ( and possibly other cartoon studios ) for copyright infringement when mice like the ones in this cartoon appear with some resemblance to Mickey . It is still a good and amusing short that should entertain some animation buffs that are interested in all animation from the early sound era . The synchronization is good for this period for both sound and music . By all means , check this one out !
Dim Sum Take Out is a short of outtakes from Wayne Wang's feature Dim Sum	Dim Sum Take Out is outtakes from Wayne Wang's Dim Sum : A Little Bit of Heart . That 1985 film originally was supposed to focus on the lives of young first generation Chinese-American women before Wang chose to focus on the mother ( Kim Chew ) of one of them ( real-life daughter Laureen ) . Of note here : Joan Chen , who had a cameo as one of the young mah-jong players in the theatrical feature version , here is expanded as a nightclub performer who wears a blond wig . There's also some more scenes with Amy Hill , looking much younger than the Grandma role she took in Maragaret Cho's " All-American Girl " 10 years later . Basically , many of the women talk about dating and relationships including a scene comparing Chinese men and other ( usually white ) men that was also in the feature version . There's also some lip-syncing of The Angels ' " My Boyfriends Back " which later transitions into one of the women performing her own Chinese-language , ' 80s rock-style version complete with a couple of androgynous male backup singers in a weird and entertaining set piece . This was included in the Dim Sum DVD along with the short's brief introduction and A Conversation with Laureen Chew segment . Worth a look for anyone who loved the movie .
Pineapple Express is another quite funny Judd Apatow production	Since tomorrow is the birthday of my friend who works at a movie theatre , I let him pick the movie we were going to see today . He picked this one ( I'm just glad he didn't pick the third Mummy movie ) . Once again produced by Judd Apatow , this is star Seth Rogan and Evan Goldberg's second screenplay after Superbad from last year . I actually liked this one better than that especially when the " witnessing the murder " sequence kicked in . There are some scenes though that , while they might be funny , later makes me wonder what relation they have to the plot . Like the beginning black and white scene that takes place in 1937 with Apatow regular and current SNLer Bill Hader . He is indeed funny in his scene but before that , I wondered if I stumbled into the wrong movie . Rogen himself , though , is throughly deadpan hilarious whether nonchalantly romancing his 18-year-old high school girlfriend at her learning center or straight-out telling her parents ( Ed Begley , Jr . and former SNLer Nora Dunn ) during dinner about being chased by some hit men . And his former co-star from " Freaks and Geeks " , James Franco , matches Seth in offbeat humor whether driving a police car with his foot stuck in the windshield or helping his buddy in untying while he's also in likewise situation . And then there's a third party that manages to stay alive despite being shot at a lot . The stuff with the Asian hit men and Gary Cole and cop Rosie Perez as lovers seems so much filler though they have their moments too . So in summation , Pineapple Express may be a little long but that length provides a pretty satisfying whole for me to recommend .
The Car was another amusing episode of " Samantha Who ? "	In this episode , Samantha convinces her father to use his car for the first time since waking up from her coma . As she drives with Dena , Sam is being reckless on the road . So much so she manages to avoid hitting a raccoon but crashes into a tree . With Dena reluctantly helping , Sam pushes the car into a lake with the intent to report it as stolen so her dad can get the insurance money . This results in Sam's dad not only getting an alarm system for alerting him in more burglars but also giving Sam a new car in proving he can now trust his daughter . Uh-oh ! Sam , sitting in her new car , sees her bad old self in the upper windshield mirror winking at her as she feels guilt . At that point , her mom comes over . Sam confesses everything . Mom uses this knowledge to make her daughter model some clothes for some neighbors , especially for the mother of an upcoming actress she's jealous about . Meanwhile , Andrea , upset about being stood up by Sam and Dena the previous night during the accident she doesn't know about , finds out the truth after confronting Dena and her dogs ( she was told the reason she was stood up was because Sam was on the phone for hours with a vet ) . As she and Dena go to Sam's house and Sam confesses her story , Andrea shakes her up to make her remember a previous night long ago-when Sam and her mom had pushed Mom's car in the same lake for the same purpose also for insurance money . Sam then resolves to get even with her by bringing that car on the driveway and ripping the tow-truck yellow pages from the phone book Mom looks in . As the father learns the whole truth , his wife denies her part of the story . Sam is allowed to keep her car anyway and helps her dad push the car back in the lake since he doesn't want trouble from the insurance company . They hug and the episode ends as Sam drives away . . . Not as funny as the others but still very amusing throughout . My favorite line came from Sam's mom about Andrea : " There's one dress that would make you look as good going out at night as when you're stumbling in the morning . " Interesting to see Sam turn a little into her old self but still thinking she's changed for the better before realizing how much of her old behavior was the result of her mother's attitude . Too bad with " Dancing with the Stars " absent as a lead-in , " Samantha Who ? " ratings went a little down . Still , I'm guessing they were strong enough for ABC to still have faith in extending the show's season through to the end . Now if only the writers ' strike were settled soon . . .
Pete Smith's Victory Quiz provides questions that must have fascinated World War II-era viewers	In this short from Pete Smith , Mr . Smith asks questions pertinent to World War II . He asks what a " Bubble Dancer " is , and when tanks , planes , parachutes , and submarines were invented . Also , who invented them . There's some amusing visual gags accompanying many of the answers . You're given 10 or 15 minutes to answer while the clock is ticking and 4 multiple choices are printed on the screen . I discovered this on the TCM site on page 8 of various trailers , clips , and some shorts presented there . This site has various interesting gems just waiting to be discovered by anyone who seeks this out . So on that note , Victory Quiz should satisfy anyone curious about what played before the main feature back in the day .
The Blood of Jesus was a pretty good drama from writer / director / actor Spencer Williams	Before I comment on the movie , I'd like to mention two cast members from my current home state of Louisiana : Reather Hardman-Sister Ellerby-was from the St . Landry Parish and writer / director / actor Spencer Williams-Razz Jackson here and later known as Andy Brown on the TV version of " Amos ' n ' Andy " - was from New Orleans . In this film , Razz's just married wife , Sister Martha Ann Jackson ( Cathryn Caviness ) , has just been baptized . When she comes home , she tells her husband how she wishes he was just as religious as she just before she looks lovingly at a wall picture of Jesus Christ . At that point , Razz puts his rifle down which shoots into Martha Ann's body and fatally puts her to sleep . An angel takes her to show the way to heaven but Martha Ann gets tempted by a devil's associate named Judas as he takes her to the city and they watch nightclub acts like a female contortionist and a girl singer . Judas then introduces her to someone who offers her a job . I'm guessing it involves dancing with strange men and picking their pockets since that's what one of these women does . As Martha Ann escapes , many of these men chases her mistaking her for the one who did the deed who's last seen sharing the riches with the boss that previously offered Martha Ann's job . As she comes to the fork in the road with opposite signs for Hell and Zion , Martha Ann gets pulled by the devil before the Lord says , " Get thee behind me , Satan ! " As blood drips on her face , Martha Ann wakes up back in her bed calling to Razz who gets out of his depression and gets the congregation back in the room and singing again before the cut back to the cross that began the movie as we fade out . . . For a man best known for playing the naive-but-not-completely Andy Brown , Spencer Williams shows his range here from neglectful to saddened to joyful during the whole hour . But it's Ms . Caviness who's the real find as her reactions from concerned after her husband doesn't share her joy in her conversion to blissful during the nightclub acts to hysterical after thinking she's trapped concerning escaping from the nightclub job offer shows her range and the camera captures her in all her natural splendor . It's too bad this turned out to be her only film . While low budget , Williams got good performances out of his cast and provides some interesting edits and camera tricks occasionally . I especially liked the devil's laugh since the actor who played him-Jas . B . Jones-seems to really enjoy his part . So on that note , I highly recommend The Blood of Jesus .
Kid Speed has Larry Semon with Oliver Hardy in good support	Kid Speed is another Larry Semon short with Oliver Hardy in support that I found on a Platinum DVD Laurel and Hardy collection . This time Hardy and Semon are car race rivals for a girl's affection . Since Hardy is the heavy , he's the one who tries to keep Semon from winning with help from various friends . One of my favorite gags involves Hardy and pals washing themselves with water from a barrel when another barrel on the roof spills tar through a roof hole into the water barrel causing Hardy and friends to look pitch black ! There's also plenty of laughs involving people slipping into and out of automobiles and one more involving the winner and girl with white paint on the winner's face ! Larry Semon is funny throughout and Hardy once again displays mannerisms that would come full fruition when he eventually teamed with Stan Laurel . By all means , seek this one out !
Cecil B . DeMille's The Buccaneer is a rousing historical epic	Having just moved back to Baton Rouge , La . in 2003 after living in Jacksonville , Fla . for the previous 16 years , I started getting reacquainted with the history of the state I had first lived much of my life from age 7 to 19 . One of those sources was from this Cecil B . DeMille account of Louisiana's pirate-hero Jean Lafitte . It was he and his men who helped General Andrew Jackson with his troops defeat the British at The Battle of New Orleans . This was in exchange for a full pardon for him and his men after originally getting a price on his head from the Governor of The Pelican State . Fredric March makes a dashing Lafitte with Akim Tamiroff splendid as his sidekick Dominique . Margot Grahame is Lafitte's fiancée while Franciska Gaal is the Dutch girl Gretchen who falls for Jean after walking the plank from another ship that was lead by a man who betrayed Lafitte . Walter Brennan is funny here as Peavey , a sidekick to General Jackson ( Hugh Sothern ) . Watch what happens when he and Tamiroff have a scene together ! Because of some of the accents and the speed of some of the dialogue , I couldn't understand everything that was said but most of the time it was the action that got to me , especially when the American military men initially were attacking Lafitte's men as they were about to welcome them . Grahame and Gaal had their own feminine charms that made either one good chemistry with March so whichever one ended up with him would have been fine . I think I've said enough so I'll just say for anyone who loves a good old-fashioned story with some history thrown in , I highly recommend Cecil B . DeMille's The Buccaneer .
Spook Spoofing is a thrillingly funny " Our Gang " short	This Hal Roach comedy short , Spook Spoofing , is the seventy-first in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . Superstitious Farina carries a special charm on him to ward off goblins . Joe , however , loves playing practical jokes so he plans with the gang , assisted by the undertaker's son Jay R . , many elaborate ones on Farina . When the black kid threatens to rub one of them so he falls dead , Harry plays along to Farina's surprise . As Farina carries Harry to the grave with the gang following with even more tricks up their sleeve , an eclipse comes with with strong stormy winds that makes the entire gang run for cover with the sand clouds following right behind them . . . Despite some cruel treatment of Farina ( I did not like the joy buzzer that Joe put on Farina's chair ) , this was quite a thrillingly funny short once the gang wound up at the cemetery during the eclipse . And how happy was I to see the tables turned once Farina accidentally gets a face balloon stuck on his head with his coat covering his face . And kudos to Gaylord Carter for providing the organ music that entirely scored this Blackhawk Films print . So once again , I'm recommending Spook Spoofing , another thrillingly funny " Our Gang " short .
My Little Margie : Meet Mr . Murphy is pretty hilarious animal show	Margie's father Vern refuses to give his daughter a $50 raise in allowance just so she can give it to boyfriend Freddie . He has enough troubles not being let in on boss ' deal with a movie producer . So Margie goes behind father's back at Honeywell and gets a job to housesit the movie's star : a chimp named Mr . Murphy ! All the expected shenanigans that occur are funny in often hilarious entry . Vern eventually makes a deal with Freddie to get rid of monkey . Margie finds out and asks Freddie to keep Mr . Murphy for awhile to teach father a lesson . With Vern kept in the dark , when his boss and the producer arrive they ask for Mr . Murphy and are upset when he is gone ! All's well that end's well except for Vern being chased by the chimp . Like I said , pretty hilarious and it was nice to see Willie Best as elevator man Charlie do his pop-eyed expression when he saw the monkey ! Worth seeing for fans of ' 50s TV sitcoms .
Pilot of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " is pretty good start of new series	It's 1999 and Sarah Connor ( Lena Headey ) has a nightmare that her teenage son , John ( Thomas Dekker ) , gets killed and a terminator robot chokes her . She wakes up at this point in bed with her fiancée who is offering her a ring . Next day , she tells John they're moving . John is puzzled . At the new school , he meets a girl named Cameron ( Summer Glau ) . Each tells about their parents which they both later reveal were lies . Both John and his mother figure out Cameron is an android from the future . It's in the new classroom that a new teacher is presiding . As he goes through the roll call , when he comes upon the name John ' Reese ' and John raises his hand as that alias is called , the " teacher " ( who's actually a cyborg ) starts shooting , " wounding " Cameron and making John run through a window . When a truck violently backs into this teacher , the driver , Cameron , says those famous seven words , " Come with me if you want to live " to John as another Terminator adventure begins . . . Nice continuation of T2 ( T3 being ignored at this point ) . Cool to see three cult actors ( Headey from 300 , Dekker from " Heroes " , and especially Glau from " Firefly " / Serenity ) . All are pretty good , if not great , in their roles . Good sprinkling of action and humor throughout . Can't wait to see the next episode . . .
The Proud Valley is one of Paul Robeson's finest achievements	In reviewing the achievements of African-Americans on film in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now at 1940 with the entry of The Proud Valley , considered by star Paul Robeson as his favorite . In this one , he's an American named David Goliah coming to Wales to find a job . After hearing his voice from outside the window while conducting his chorus in rehearsal , Mr . Parry ( Edward Chapman ) manages to convince David to sing in his choir and gets him a job at the mines where he also works . His son , Emlyn ( Simon Lack ) also works there and is engaged to Gwen Owen ( Janet Johnson ) . I'll stop there and mention that Robeson is in fine form musically especially when he sings " Deep River " that sends chills down the spine . Perhaps because of his color , his character is sometimes in the background but by the end he does become essential . So for him , I'd definitely recommend The Proud Valley .
See Little Audrey's debut in Santa's Surprise	Santa's Surprise is a charming Christmas short from Parmount's Famous Studios cartoon division that features the first appearance of Little Audrey . Santa sings of bringing presents to children around the world . We see him stop at various children's houses in countries such as Russia , China , Holland , and America as represented by Little Audrey whose stocking has a hole at the bottom so when the presents fall out , they land in a wagon below ! We then see Santa stop at his house in the North Pole where , since there are no elves or a Mrs . Claus , it is messed up beyond recognition . Audrey and her diversified playmates sneak in and clean it up . After they leave , Santa finds a present under his tree which has a circular music box that shows through a small screen inside , all their faces passing through . . . While some of the ethnic characterizations of the kids do come close to being stereotypical ( the young Negro kid offers to shine shoes , the Dutch boy wears wooden clogs that are too loud ) , there's no real harm involved in such depictions and besides , they're all working for the greater good . So if you're looking for some Christmas cartoons that isn't Charlie Brown , the Grinch , or the Rankin / Bass Rudolph , put in a tape or DVD that has this and other public domain cartoons and marvel at the charms you'll get from something made 50 years ago !
The Wabbit Who Came to Supper is another Bugs-Elmer cartoon I recommend	In this Friz Freeling directed cartoon short , Elmer stops trying to hunt for Bugs in the forest with his dogs after receiving a telegram telling that his Uncle Louie will give him three million dollars if Elmer stops harming animals-especially " wabbits " . Well , when Bugs hears of this , you know he'll annoy the " fat boy " constantly ! ( Mr . Fudd was drawn on the heavyset side during this period ) . . . If you love to see Bugs at his most obnoxious , this is the cartoon for you ! Many gags are probably familiar to you if you've seen a ton of Warner Bros . cartoons . There's one scene when Bugs gets thrown out and he does a hysterical routine that has him breaking the fourth wall and saying , " This could get me the Academy Award ! " On that note , I highly recommend The Wabbit Who Came to Supper .
The Loobenfeld Decay was a mostly amusing episode of " The Big Bang Theory "	Sheldon and Leonard are arguing the logic of the Terminator movies and TV series when they hear some awful singing . It's Penny who tells them she's performing in a local production of " Rent " for one night only and invites them to see her on stage . Leonard mentions that he and Sheldon are going to a symposium that night though Sheldon almost ruins that lie by nearly mentioning the real night of that . After she's gone , Leonard mentions to his roommate why he lied to Penny and the necessities of doing so for social purposes . Sheldon decides to replace that fib for a more complicated one about a cousin who's in rehab . That " cousin " later appears in the form of a fellow colleague / aspiring actor who argues about characterization with Sheldon . Hardly matters since Penny taped her performance and gets Leonard to watch while he leaves Sheldon and the " actor " alone with their bickering . . . Pretty funny , if not hilarious episode of " The Big Bang Theory " . As usual , Sheldon has much of the best lines though D . J . Qualls as the fake cousin steals the few scenes he's in with his constant embellishments . Penny herself has her moments when trying to explain to Howard and Raj the story that Sheldon told about his " cousin " . Oh , and as a Filipino born in this country , I was not offended by Qualls " childhood abuse " from a chaplain from that Asian country . Though according to Chuck Lorre's censored vanity card , it was originally supposed to be a Catholic priest ! ( Again , while Catholic , not offended . ) Very glad this show is back .
The Crawling Eye is a good national cable start for MST3K	Eight years after seeing the last episode , " Diabolik " on the Sci-Fi Channel , I've discovered on YouTube the very first MST3K shown on national cable-specifically on Comedy Channel ( which eventually merged with rival Ha ! to form Comedy Central ) , " The Crawling Eye " . The main cast includes creator Joel Hodgson , Trace Beaulieu , and Josh Weinstein with the ' bots Cambot , Gypsy , Tom Servo , and Croooow . Loved the invention exchange with the vacuum instrument playing " Whole Lotta Love " . Then comes the movie starring Forrest Tucker ( " F Troop " ) and Janet Munro ( Swiss Family Robinson , Darby O'Gill and the Little People ) . Loved the running fat jokes ( " He's too fat to climb " ) concerning a heavyset character , some Popeye lines ( about another character who's eye is squinting while resting ) , and a lot of bad eye puns after the title monster appears ( " The sequel will be The EYE-ger Sanction starring Burl EYES " ) . The riffing seems to be a little slow in the beginning but picks up considerably by the last 30 minutes . I was a little disappointed , though , when Forrest mentioned something about a fort that Joel and the ' bots didn't ask in unison , " Fort Courage ? " Otherwise , a good national start for a formerly local show from independent station KTMA in Minneapolis , Minnesota .
Max Fleischer's Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer is enjoyable animated Christmas short	Long surpassed by the 1964 Rankin / Bass version , this 1948 animated version of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer directed by Max Fleischer is enjoyable in its own right . Narrated by Paul Wing , the story begins with the lead character already not allowed to skate on ice with the others ( all of whom wear pillows on their backs to break their falls ) . His mother then calls him ( there's no father here ) and as Rudolph sleeps in his bed , Santa has trouble with his eight reindeer ( who he calls by name as they pass him ) with the fog and blizzard in his way . If you know the song by heart ( and who doesn't ? ) , you can figure out what happens next and I won't spoil it for anyone who hasn't heard of this story yet . Nice animation throughout and good pacing for a 7-minute short . Worth seeing for Fleischer , Rudolph , and animation fans .
The Lady Varnishes is the final episode of Andy Barker P . I .	This is the second of the last two episodes of Andy Barker P . I . that aired on a Saturday , April 14 , 2007 . Andy and Lew visit Lew's former detective office which is being torn down . Andy finds in the mail slot a 45-year-old letter from a Rita Spaulding ( Amy Sedaris ) addressed to Lew about her innocence in the murder of her gangster boyfriend which got her life . Andy visits her and finds she has a wooden leg . He and Simon go to a photographer named Johnny Leibowitz who was at Gene Kelly's birthday party the night of the murder . The photos taken there place Rita at the scene which becomes her alibi . Andy gets the pictures but gets beaten by Mickey Doyle ( Ed Asner ) , Lew's former partner and the real killer . The next day Andy meets Doyle at Wally's restaurant where Simon attempts to record the confession but keeps having technical difficulties . Eventually , all is cleared . . . Another funny episode that , unfortunately , is the very last that was filmed . Great reveal of Leibowitz as an Asian who changed his name because , " Everyone loves a Jew ! " Also loved the way Simon had to tell Andy without telling Mickey about his trouble recording their conversation and a subplot about Wally's having to hire some bikini-clad girls that he later ends up firing . As for Andy Richter , good luck on whatever comes in the future !
Three Days of the Chicken is another amusing episode of Andy Barker P , I .	The Middle Eastern proprietor of the restaurant near Andy's has had no choice but to accept bad chicken from a local factory . Andy accepts the case at the same time his wife has a party in her back yard . Simon and former Detective Lew are along for the ride . There are plenty of amusing lines and some silly visual touches to keep this show on an even steady pace . Loved Andy's wife's line mistakenly calling the restaurant head " Willy " instead of " Wally " then saying , " Well , he should change his name . He's an American now . " And can you believe that old man Lew is afraid of some live chickens ? And how about Andy still wondering why he is still being followed just as Simon says , " That's because you're still signaling ! " This episode was surrounded by an Office marathon so here's hoping AB P . I . got some extra numbers because of that . . .
The Greyhound and the Rabbit was a pretty funny Columbia cartoon I watched on YouTube	Just watched this Columbia Color Rhapsody ( though the print I saw was in black and white ) on YouTube . It's basically a series of visual gags that takes place on a greyhound race track with the racers chasing a mechanical rabbit attached to a gate ( though the rabbit seems lifelike , at least for a cartoon ) . Among many funny ones : An announcer getting his dentures knocked out by a typewriter moving its whatever - that - thing - that - goes - left - to - right as operated by the person next to him , one dog making his " move " playing checkers , the rabbit attaching and reattaching his tail , when the dogs are in " photo finish " - one of them applies makeup as they all stop freeze-frame-like . So with all I just said , I'd recommend this Sid Marcus-directed cartoon , The Greyhound and the Rabbit .
Last aired Creature Comforts episode was amusing enough	In this , the last " Creature Comforts " episode that aired on CBS , there's some small clips of various animals mentioning what celebrities they look like . I liked it when one of the lobsters said he was told he looked like Charles Atlas ( that muscle guy in the comic book ads that I remember from the ' 70s ) ! Then in Winter , we see a groundhog trying to analyze the weather just before seeing his shadow then he runs back to his treehouse ! Also , a male horse discusses spooning with his female mate before that mate asks what he's talking about ! In The Zoo , a gorilla says he wants porn ! And so ends another segment of ordinary people's voices coming out of clay-animated animals ' mouths for the last time due to low ratings . Not as funny as the last two episodes but still amusing enough . Hope to see something again from the creators of Wallace and Gromit real soon . Until next time . . .
The Bubble was another pretty amusing episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , we find out Liz ' Dr . Drew lives in a bubble due to his handsome looks and is inept at everything as a result , Jack causes Tracy to quit the show when he inadvertently tells him how rich he is , and Jenna decides to have her hair cut on " Today " to get more attention than Tracy . . . Written by series creator Tina Fey , " The Bubble " is more subtly amusing than hilarious though as always , there are many clever lines and visual gags that make the whole thing go down easy in that most unique " 30 Rock " way . Loved Jenna's reference to both " the Rachel " and " Felicity , season 2 " in reference to her upcoming haircut and Jack's getting his black accountant to disguise his voice as Bill Cosby in a failed phone call negotiation with Tracy . Then there's Jon Hamm's ineptness at both tennis and motorcycle riding . . .
Larry King was a pretty funny , if not hilarious , episode of " 30 Rock "	In this one , Jack and Elisa are having relationship problems , Liz and Kenneth attempt to recover Liz ' cell from a cabbie , and Tracy on " Larry King Live " tells everyone to panic when the Asian markets fall . . . Not quite as funny as previous eps of " 30 Rock " and I can't help thinking the staffers looking for Tracy's money in his office is excuse for them having something to do especially the Scott Adsit character since this is one of his rare appearances this season but there are still some pretty funny lines and scenes and it's touching how the Kenneth character really is in certain situations . Also touching was Salma Hayak's exit for this arc . Hope she's available for a comeback . And how about Liz ' nana's " lullaby " song being " 99 Luftballons " . . .
The Burns and Allen show marks an amusing television debut	Having had their own successful radio show for the past seventeen years , this marked the first time George Burns and Gracie Allen appeared on live television . It begins as Burns steps from the curtain and explains what it's like to be a straight man . We then see Gracie opening her window as she trims the hedges with George's razor ! A book salesman comes and tries to sell Gracie some encyclopedias but gets confused by some of her nonsense logic and keeps getting his hat smashed whenever Gracie puts some of his books down ! After this scene ends , George introduces musical act The Skylarks and then does some banter about George's singing . Then Gracie drops in on the Mortons and asks Blanche ( Bea Benaderet ) to go to the movies which Harry ( Hal March ) at first refuses but relents to avoid an argument with Blanche . Announcer Bill Goodwin then drops in on George as he tells a story of how he was stuck on an airplane running out of gas and mentions to control tower , " Do you use Carnation Evaporated Milk ? " leading to a plug for the show's sponsor . After this ends , Bill almost walks off the set before George tells him to use the door . " Now , wasn't that better ? You see , we've got to keep this believable , " George says as he tells us it's now three hours later . He talks to Harry to make plans to get out of going to the movies with their wives by inventing a card game called Kleebob hoping the confusion would free them to go the boxing match . But Gracie recognizes the rules having played a similar game a week ago when George wanted to get out of something else with his wife ! Goodwin then comes by himself to plug another Carnation product before George and Gracie say good night . Very amusing first episode of a transplanted radio show that shows how in command of the camera Burns , Allen , and the rest of the cast were . Gracie , especially , is very funny whether wondering how milk came from carnations or mentioning how she never gets dizzy prompting Harry to choke from his drink ! The sponsor's product , while obvious , is amusingly integrated into the plot . The only real intrusion is the musical act which would eventually be phased out except for musical-like episodes . The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show on television marked the peak of the comedy team's success that would last until 1958 when Gracie retired . Well worth seeing wherever you can find any episodes !
Godsend is a welcome continuation of Heroes in the new year	It's been two weeks in TV time since the last episode as we open with Peter in a hospital bed . Watching him rest are his brother Nathan and their mom . Simone comes by and brings flowers . Claire is in the kitchen with her father pretending to have little memory of the day her former cheerleader friend Jackie was killed . Back at school , she encounters Zack and tries to refresh his memory of their unique friendship but Zack has no recall . Niki has had a hard time in jail , especially whenever Jessica appears as D . L . and son Micah try to cope without her . Mohinder finds out Eden was once known as Sara Issacs and that her dead body is somewhere in Canada . Matt and his partner try to infiltrate Horn-Rimmed Glasses ' workplace in order to find Syler but all they find is paper . And Hiro and Ando are in the Mueseum of Natural History in New York as Hiro discovers a sword of a Japanese legend and attempts to take it in order to get full powers back . Meanwhile , Peter has dreams of destroying New York and gets out of the hospital to find a man from those dreams who claims to be invisible . Nathan and Simone later go to Issac's apartment where they find Issac who tells Simone he's now clean and that he's still in love with her . Hiro and Ando arrive at this time and mention while they have the sword , it's a fake and someone named Linderman has the real one . . . What I've just mentioned are mainly set-ups for many exciting encounters that will happen in future episodes . Nice scenes between Claire and Zack as they reenact his filming her stunt from the pilot episode . Funny use of Hiro in using his reduced powers during the sword-taking scene . Also humorous was Matt's telling his wife about his mind-reading abilities . Touching scene of Niki and her son before Jessica took over and got herself abducted by the guards . And interesting scenes between HRG and Mohinder about a possible , if reluctant on Mohinder's part , team-up . Lots to think about before the next episode . And I'll be waiting with bated breath . . .
Jerky Turkey is funny cartoon from Tex Avery at MGM	An amusing Tex Avery cartoon made near the end of World War II . Basically , a pilgrim who doesn't want to wait in line goes to " Ye Black Market " building to get a live turkey . The turkey who offers himself sounds like Jimmy Durante . Various chase gags are executed like the one where the pilgrim paints on a brick wall outside scenery to fool the turkey . Turkey goes through that scenery . Pilgrim tries to chase turkey through only to smash himself . The kind of gag that would be more perfected in Chuck Jones ' Road Runner cartoons . Many other gags involving modern gadgets follow . Highly worth seeing for any Tex Avery fan . Don't miss a final gag involving someone constantly carrying the sign , " Eat at Joe's " . . .
Lady , Play Your Mandolin ! is a highly amusing first Merrie Melodies short	If it wasn't for the fact that the male and female leads had triangle ears and long bushy tails , they would've been mistaken for Mickey and Minnie Mouse ( maybe Walt Disney did and threatened to sue so Leon Schlesinger told his cartoon directors Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising-former Disney animators-to stop making Foxy cartoons ) . Anyway , Foxy rides on his horse to a bar in a desert town to see his girlfriend play the title song . This being pre-Code ( and no stigma of cartoons being only a children's medium then ) , there's lots of drinking of alcohol treated in a humorous manner especially of the horse at the climax . Historically important since this was the first Merrie Melodies short after a year of Looney Tunes with Bosko as the star . Highly amusing though a long way from the classics that starred Porky Pig , Daffy Duck , Bugs Bunny , etc . Still , worth seeing for any animation buff especially of Warner Bros . cartoons .
Jasper and the Beanstalk is another entertaining George Pal Puppetoon	Just watched on Google Video Jasper and the Beanstalk , a George Pal Puppetoon series entry about a little black boy and his adventures with a talking scarecrow . This one has the scarecrow giving Jasper some " magic beans " which grows into a giant beanstalk . The harp that Jasper rescues has a voice that sounds like the great Lena Horne but could possibly be just a perfect impersonation . Since this is only a 7-minute short , not much explanation is given of whether this was only a dream or otherwise but one doesn't care after a while since nearly all of it is entertaining . It would be nice to see this and other George Pal Puppetoons , however , in better condition than I've seen on Google or YouTube .
Modeling is a pretty amusing early Out of the Inkwell entry	As Max tries to get Ko-Ko more enthusiastic in movements , a sculptor tries not to make a male model's bust too accurate since the model has a big nose . After Max draws some snow , an ice pond , a cabin , and some skates on Ko-Ko , he goes to the sculptor and model to advise . As the clown skates , he ends up drawing the model's face on the ice as he skates . Luckily the ice lines disappear before Max and the others can see it . Suddenly , a bear appears as Ko-Ko follows him into the cabin . A cow then appears along with a lamb . They disappear again when the cabin self-destructs as Ko-Ko and the bear get out . The clown then makes a snow sculpture of the model and this Max sees as he throws clay at the clown's head which hits it . Ko-Ko then sneaks off the drawing board and goes to the bust where he constantly moves the big nose as he goes under it making the model fall down his chair ! Ko-Ko escapes covered in clay even after the three men grab the cover . As the model leaves in a huff , he aims the clay at the sculptor but accidentally hits a side of Max's face . The clown then goes back in the inkwell and closes it with Max frantically opening it and seeing nothing but ink spilling out . . . Pretty amusing early Out of the Inkwell entry with wonderful movements of the clown skating . Worth a look for Fleischer enthusiasts .
Laughing Gas was an amusing Flip the Frog cartoon from Ub Iwerks	This Ub Iwerks cartoon starring Flip the Frog is typical of many early ' 30s cartoons that provides a thin plot line and goes in several directions at once though that's part of many of these shorts ' charm . In this one , Flip is a dentist who spends most of the cartoon trying to extract some teeth from a frightened walrus . Plenty of funny gags abound like the frog using a skunk for an anesthetic and an animated cash register grabbing another customer back because he forgot to pay ! While Flip , like other cartoon characters created so soon after Mickey Mouse's debut , doesn't have much of a personality , the animation and gags were usually enough to provide these now obscure icons some days in the sun . This was another short I found on Federator .
The Pups ' Christmas is another amusing Harmon-Ising cartoon from M-G-M	Just watched this Hugh Harmon-Rudolf Ising Happy Harmonies M-G-M cartoon short on YouTube . It's Christmas Day and the kids and their two puppies have woken up and opened the presents . Among them : a train with tracks provided , a doll that says " Momma " , a calico dog , a tank , and an airplane . It's the former that " shoots " at the pups and the latter that gets in the former's way . Those scenes provided most of the humor of this short which mainly relied on the cuteness of the pups ' actions . Since Harmon-Ising ( harmonizing , get it ? ) got their start with Walt Disney , that cuteness factor was not very surprising to me . With all that said , The Pups ' Christmas was another amusing cartoon that I'd say is worth a look for any vintage animation buff out there .
See Rainbow on the River and rediscover Bobby Breen	I found this obscure musical from the ' 30s under the " Louisiana " section in my local East Baton Rouge Parish Library under the title It Happened in New Orleans . What a wonderful discovery of a young juvenile singer named Bobby Breen from a time when most of America was enchanted by Shirley Temple ! He plays a New Orleans boy raised by former slave Louise " Imitation of Life " Beavers after his parents died in the Civil War . Besides her , Breen also has Matthew " Stymie " Beard as a friend . Then he finds out about his Yankee relatives and moves to New York . Only the butler can relate to him there . Wonderful songs from the 19th century dominate the film with the then-new title song sung at least three times . Wonderful support from May Robson , Charles Butterworth , Eddie " Rochester " Anderson as a superstitious doctor , and the Hall Johnson Choir . Nice humorous touches throughout . Worthy of rediscovery for old-time movie fans .
Run ! is another compelling episode of Heroes	Last week , we found out Claire's bio-dad was Nathan Petrelli . He offers the bio-mom lots of money which she accepts . Hiro and Ando offer to help a Vegas showgirl in exchange for info to Linderman's whereabouts . Jessica is assigned by Linderman to assassinate a Mr . Malsky who is guided by Matt as a newly hired guard . Mohinder calls a Zane Taylor in Virginia Beach , Virginia and offers to come over but Sylar gets there first . Claire's adopted mom gets a big headache from possibly HRG's constant mind wipings . Claire overhears Petrelli and her bio-mom but doesn't show herself as she throws a rock at Nathan's car as he leaves . Hiro and Ando sneak into showgirl's ex-partner's room to get her purse but Hiro leaves quickly while Ando is stuck under bed while showgirl's ex-partner sits . Hiro overhears showgirl's phone call about lying to the boys and gets punched by her then gets locked in while Ando goes with her outside . An agent gets Hiro out . Jessica knocks Matt out a window but Matt recovers after landing on ledge . Malsky is killed , however . Matt does recover suitcase of diamonds and is about to give them to police then changes his mind when he hears in their heads what they think of him . Mohinder arrives at Taylor's house and unknowingly gets Syler who demonstrates Taylor's powers that he stole-turning metal into liquid . HRG has grounded Claire because she skipped school . Clair's adopted mom can no longer remember her life . And Jessica has a new assignment-Kill Nathan Petrelli . . . Pretty exciting though still slow-moving . Hope the New York explosion comes soon so there can be some real action . I thought Matt was a goner for a while when he was unconscious on that ledge . Still love Hiro and Ando's exchanges about heroism . Claire gets more suspicious of her adopted dad . Syler sure has fooled Mohinder . Until next time . . .
Giants vs . Yanks is an amusing " Our Gang " short that's only partly about baseball	Unlike the other " Our Gang / Little Rascals " shorts I just reviewed , I watched this one , Giants vs . Yanks , on an old Goodtimes VHS cassette called " Our Gang Comedy Festival II " from 1989 that I watched previously when I bought it from New Orleans in 1995 . The print had alternate beginning credits from another distributor that renamed the series " Those Lovable Scallawags with Their Gangs " . As the title implies there is a baseball game in the short but that ends a little too soon as the gang then goes to the home of a wealthy couple that's been taking care of Jackie's little sister . Meanwhile , a doctor there has examined the couple's own baby and , finding out she has a contagious fever , quarantines the house for a week . That's enough time for the kids to wreck havoc all over the house to the couple's long-lasting consternation . Eventually , the doctor reverses his prognosis and the angry parents arrive to take their kids home . . . While there's plenty of amusing gags like a baby carriage being pulled by a horse , kids breaking glass and vases ( with the appropriate sound effects ) , and a goat running on a treadmill that pulls the bike that turns the clothes dryer around , there's also a bit much repetition in the house wrecking sequence of the parents ' horrified reactions . Still , I was mostly amused by the shenanigans . Some scenes might make you cringe like Farina crying after being knocked down by a large pillow and the whole jackknife bit with the toddler and Sunshine Sammy but otherwise it's all in good fun . By the way , instead of the LeRoy Shield score that's standard for many of the " Little Rascals " talkies , what you hear is the stock music that is used for many other silent comedies that are in the public domain . So , in summary , Giant vs . Yanks doesn't live up to its title but is pretty funny nonetheless . P . S . Sunshine Sammy's father , Ernie Morrison , Sr . appears here .
Her Painted Hero is a pretty funny outing from Polly Moran for Mack Sennett	This is the first time I've seen a film starring Polly Moran . Boy , what expressions she has on her , sort of a Carol Burnett quality to her face and body . In a nutshell , she stands to inherit some money after her uncle dies . When some members of a theatre nearby read about this , they , formally having rejected her , now rush to ask for her hand . She , instead , pines for the leading man of the play which she offers to back if he'll make her his leading lady . He does which he might have regretted since she causes many disasters to happen during performance . . . Plenty of slapstick fights happen during the party of men all there to ask for Polly's hand but the real laughs are during the play where the props fall down and Polly herself ends up literally hanging by a curtain ! Well worth seeing for that alone . This was another pretty funny outing from Mack Sennett .
Mama's New Hat is a highly amusing Captain and the Kids cartoon	First , about the series title : " The Captain and the Kids " was the name Rudolph Dirks named his comic strip creation after leaving his original syndicate , King Features , and moved to its rival , United Features , since " The Katzenjamer Kids " name was owned by King and was still drawn there by Harold Knerr . Now on to the story . Hans and Franz have bought a new hat for Mama for Mother's Day but it gets dirtied when they fall in a mud puddle . A horse nearby laughs . The kids sees the hat on the horse and sneakily switch it with their dirty one . The horse , hating the switched hat , stomps on it and follows the kids to their home . Mama loves the hat so much she doesn't notice at first that the horse is following her and trying to get it back . . . I'll stop right there and say there's plenty of funny gags concerning Mama's ignorance , like when she inadvertently steps on an elevator door on the ground and unknowingly drops down as the horse unsuccessfully tries to grab hat , as well as the horse's attempts at chasing everybody in the house and the things he ( or she ) keeps bumping into . The ending might be a little ridiculous but it's well animated and shows not everyone gets what they want . . .
Punchy de Leon is an amusing final Fox and Crow cartoon	Nine years after their debut in The Fox and the Grapes , The Fox and Crow made their last theatrical cartoon for Columbia ( and third for UPA ) with this , Punchy de Leon . As you've probably guessed by the title , this short concerns the efforts of the leading characters to find the Fountain of Youth for the king of Spain . Some amusing animation gags abound in the two competitors ' efforts of oneupmanship of each other though the topper comes at the end which , if you've seen many of similar cartoons , you'll figure out right away . While this was indeed the final animated appearance of these now-obscure characters , The Fox and Crow would continue in comic book form for DC for at least 18 more years . By the way , though no credit of him is on this IMDb listing , that certainly sounds like Daws Butler's southern voice that he later used for Huckleberry Hound briefly coming out of the Crow's mouth when he poses as a toll guard !
Quicksand marks a change-of-pace for Mickey Rooney	Quicksand marks Mickey Rooney's attempt to break out of his MGM-Andy Hardy-type good guy roles and with Jim Brady he's off to a good start . James Cagney's sister Jeanne plays Vera , a cashier at the diner mechanic Brady and his coworkers eat at . She and Jim hit it off right at the start as they go downtown window shopping for a $3000 fur coat Vera wants bad . They later go to an arcade owned by Nick ( Peter Lorre ) , a former employer of Vera . Another girl , Helen ( Barbara Bates ) , also pines for Jim . I'll stop right there and say how exciting it is to see Rooney get in so much trouble so quick you'd almost forget his previous roles . My favorite scene is when he tries to rob the arcade at night and hits the machine that keeps playing a carnival version of " Blue Danube " by accident ! It's only when it's revealed that he might not have killed his boss that things go a little downhill . And I can't believe Helen would still pine for Jim after he reveals everything ! Otherwise , a mostly good thriller . Oh , and nobody can play creepy like Lorre .
Hold Anything is a pretty entertaining musical Bosko cartoon short	Since the previous reviewer mentioned most of the details of Hold Anything , I'll just mention that the mice look uncannily like Walt Disney's Mickey . Perhaps not surprising since directors Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising had previously worked for Disney as animators when he created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit with Ub Iwerks with the rabbit looking like the Famous Mouse with long ears and a fluffy tail . Another entertaining musical short that seems inspired by the fame of the first successful sound cartoon , Steamboat Willie , that put Mickey Mouse and Walt Disney on the map of iconic status . Worth a look for anyone interested in Warner Bros . animation before Tex Avery arrived to give it a new identity .
Trolley Troubles is an interesting early Walt Disney Oswald cartoon	Just watched this early pre-Mickey Mouse Walt Disney cartoon on YouTube . It starred Oswald the Lucky Rabbit who looks like Mickey with rabbit ears . Trolley Troubles has many amazing and funny silent cartoon gags involving the trolley , the tracks , a cow , a goat , and a crowd of passengers ( all resembling Oswald ) . And there's a Felix-the-Cat-like gag involving the rabbit's tail . Quite amusing and well recommended for anyone interested in anything involving Walt Disney , silent cartoons , and movie history in general . Oswald's resemblance to Mickey is probably because the person who helped create both characters was one Ub Iwerks . I can hardly wait for the upcoming DVD collection of Disney Oswald shorts later this year as well as a Walter Lantz series that has some later Oswalds .
Mighty Mouse : The New Adventures marked Ralph Bakshi's return to his roots	Just watched on YouTube " The Day of the Mice / Still Oily After All These Years " episodes of Mighty Mouse : The New Adventures . Day of the Mice has a real Sparticus-like one standing up to the cats and taking over Mouseville to the point of Our Hero , after coming back from vacation , is no longer needed and getting fat and lazy as a result . Hilarious scenes of cats being figuratively stepped on by the mice and of Mighty's impersonation of Jimmy Stewart from It's a Wonderful Life . And watch for a giant Pee Wee Herman ! Still Oily marks the return of Oil Can Harry after 20 years in jail . He's still obsessing over Pearl Pureheart but wait till you see the twist at the end ! Also watch for a cameo by the Gene Deitch era-Gaston . This series marked the return of Ralph Bakshi to his Terrytoon roots even though that animation company had long folded . With the help of John Kricfalusi , these cartoons were even more hilarious than the originals were . Well worth seeking out for animation buffs .
Fido Beta Kappa is another Famous Studios cartoon written by Irv Spector that I'd recommend	This is yet another Irv Spector-written cartoon from Famous Studios that I just found-this time on Cartoon Brew as linked from YouTube . In this one , the dog is no use to the master ( he mistakenly gives said master a tree branch instead of his rifle when they're confronted by a bear ) so that master threatens to send him to the dog pound . Instead , the dog begs to go to college so he gets sent to Dog Gone U . After graduation , that dogs talks more proper and proves smarter than the master when he's tested in safe guarding , duck hunting , and lightning spotting . Well , about that last one . . . Not as hilarious as the last two Spector-Famous cartoons I reviewed but funny enough that I enjoyed it . The last gag was especially hilarious though a bit more shockingly violent than I'd expect from a ' 50s cartoon . So for that , I recommend Fido Beta Kappa .
Flebus was an interesting short from Ernie Pintoff during the Deitch era of Terrytoons	This was an animated short from the Gene Deitch ( who , like me , is a Chicago native ) era of Terrytoons that I just discovered on YouTube . The title character is a short man who does various things that make people like him . That is until he runs into a big man named Rudolph who hits him on the head when he is offered anything . After this happens for a while , Flebus goes to a psychiatrist who tells him he's neurotic when Flebus asks why this man doesn't like him . The doctor tells Rudolph the same thing when he asks why he doesn't like Flebus . When they meet again , Rudolph and Flebus becomes friends because they now have something in common ! This short is more smile than laugh inducing but it's very interesting artistically with the limited designs from director Ernie Pintoff . He couldn't finish it though so Deitch completed it and made one of the most abstractedly made shorts ever associated with the usually conventional animated studio Terrytoons . The era proved to be short-lived , however , since the real boss , executive producer Bill Weiss , wanted to go back to the old characters like Mighty Mouse and Heckle and Jeckle and soon let Gene and many of his animators go . Some wonderful cartoons were made though of which Flebus was one of them .
Kotch comes recommended for Matthau and Lemmon fans	Just watched Kotch , the only film Jack Lemmon directed with his pal Walter Matthau starring . Matthau plays Joseph Kotcher , a retired businessman who's staying with his son Gerald ( Charles Aidman ) , daughter-in-law Wilma ( Felicia Farr , who was Lemmon's real-life wife ) , and their baby son Duncan . Since both parents work and Joe isn't always responsible with his grandson ( Wilma mentions Duncan getting some beer foam and pizza from his grandpop ) , they send him to a retirement home . This happens despite the babysitter they hired , Erica ( Deborah Winters ) , being not so responsible herself since she has sex with her boyfriend in Kotcher's home with Joe as witness . Needless to say , Joe and Erica form an unlikely bond when she gets pregnant and he decides to go on the road instead of agreeing to the old folks home . I'll stop right there and say while I thought that the movie was going to be a little treacly with scenes of Matthau and the baby on the playground and the Marvin Hamlisch-Johnny Mercer song " Life is What You Make It " playing ( which amazingly got an Oscar nomination ) , it got a little better with Joe's amusing tangents throughout the picture . Erica took a little more getting used to since her tangents were initially irritating but she calmed down eventually . I was worried for her , however , when she first rode in Kotch's creaky 1940s car especially since neither wore a seat belt when they were running fast ! The funniest scene to me was when they stopped at a gas station and , as they were going to the ladies ' restroom , the sign near the door said , " Ask Attendent for Key " ! This happens as Erica's water broke and the attendants were very fixated on their motorcycle . Also appearing here are Larry Linville in his film debut as Erica's brother and guardian who provides some amusing moments a year before becoming Frank Burns on " MASH " , and Ellen Geer , actor Will Geer's daughter , who plays Joe's late wife Vera in flashbacks in touching scenes . She was also Lemmon's ex-wife Frances on The Odd Couple II , and recently played Katherine Mayfair's aunt on " Desparate Housewives " . Not a great dramedy , but Lemmon the director provides some nice touches that makes one keep watching for the little moments that Matthau provides in a role that got him a second Oscar nomination . Worth a look for fans of both .
Jack the Writer is another funny episode of 30 Rock	As Liz tries to rally her staff on material , the receptionist keeps distracting the mostly male members with her clothing and various positions so Liz tries to get her to do something else but her staff keeps looking at her so Liz tells her to leave before one of her staff tells Liz that her last suggestion sucked . Boss Jack manages to get himself invited to these meetings to the consternation of Liz and the rest of her staff . Meanwhile , Tracy gets the page Kenneth to do various chores for him such as getting a nacho from Yankee Stadium . After Liz gets Jack off her staffs ' back , Jack doesn't speak to her for awhile . They make up when Jack gets tickets for a music act Liz enjoys but goes back to boss-employee after Liz asks to eat pizza on the roof in front of Jack's superiors . . . Another funny episode with highlights being Liz's talk with receptionist on her clothing and receptionist's dress gift to Liz which gets laughs from her crew . Funniest episodes yet .
30 Rock : The Aftermath is still uneven though a bit funnier	While a bit funnier than the pilot , " The Aftermath " is still uneven in spots . Liz Lemon introduces Tracy Jordan to her writing staff . We find out that The Girlie Show is now called TGS with Tracy Jordan . Tracy shoots some promos with Jenna Maloney where he keeps getting her name wrong . Liz and Jenna accidentally keep their mics on when they talk trash about Tracy . When Liz talks to Tracy and does the same about her staff she is seen on television monitors . Tracy then offers to get everyone together on his yacht . As Liz tries to find the bathroom , she finds from a maid hiding in the closet that the yacht is stolen so she tells everybody to jump ship . The next day , Jack Donaghy congratulates Lemon on the staff unity and manages to keep Jordan's yacht scandal out of the papers . . . except for a drunk pose on the front page of one of Jenna ! Liz is insulted when Donaghy thinks Maloney will like it , then Maloney comes and tells how excited she is about the free publicity as Liz puts a deadpan look on her face . What is a bit uneven is the Maloney character wanting respect one minute and then glad of being on the tabloid cover next . Also , Rachel Dratch was originally supposed to play the role now taken over by Jane Krakowski . To still get some airtime , Fey has her Second City partner doing various roles in each episode but they are cameos that short-shrift Dratch's talents . The food being thrown at Liz by her staff after she insulted them on the monitors is also a bit much . However , both Alec Baldwin and Tracy Morgan are doing fine in their roles and hopefully we'll see more of the writing staff and producer as the series moves on . I just hope NBC gives the series a chance after the show's less-than-spectacular ratings of the first two weeks !
Congo Jazz is another pretty entertaining Bosko cartoon short	In Congo Jazz , Bosko is a hunter who is chased by a tiger . He shoots but the bullet comes out with a whimper instead of a bang . Eventually , Bosko pulls a flute out and serenades the tiger to the edge of a cliff before kicking him off . He then encounters a couple of young apes . One of them gets in trouble with Bosko so he opens the baby's butt-fur and attempts to spank him ( this was obviously pre-Code ) . The father arrives . Feeling threatened , Bosko offers some gum . The father ape obliges . They then make beautiful music together when both play with their tongues . All the jungle animals join in . It all ends with two laughing hyenas laughing at Bosko's expense though Bosko himself does too . . . Another musical Bosko that has its own charm despite no real plot to speak of , just gags connected by music and setting . Pretty entertaining though a far cry from later Looney Tunes that became classics after Tex Avery and other " new blood " arrived in 1936 . . .
Nancy Drew . . . Reporter is a breezy second entry in movie series	Before Veronica Mars , there was Nancy Drew , the teenage amateur detective with an attorney father created in a series of juvenile novels by " Carolyn Keene " ( not a real name ) . Nancy Drew . . . Reporter was the second of four films that starred Bonita Granville as the title character for Warner Bros . Directed at a fast pace with crackling dialogue and humorous and suspenseful moments throughout , this movie is a breeze at just 68 minutes . Wonderful supporting cast includes John Litel as Nancy's father , Frankie Thomas as Nancy's boyfriend Ted , and Mary Lee and Dickie Jones as Ted's sister and her friend who cause trouble wherever they go . The last two had a future association with Gene Autry with Lee appearing in some of his ' 40s movies and Dickie ( later Dick ) also appearing with him then starring in later TV series " Range Rider " and " Buffalo Bill , Jr . " for Autry's production company . Though it stops the story , there is a wonderful swinging version of Nursery Rhymes as sung by Granville , Thomas , Lee , and Jones . Dickie would also be famous as the title character voice of Walt Disney's Pinocchio . Well worth seeing for fans of Drew and ' 30s programmers . P . S . Joan Leslie and Florence Halop appear as classmates of Nancy in the newsroom field trip sequence .
Hugh Laurie and Beck on Saturday Night Live	Since this episode aired on October 28 , 2006 , expect some jokes or sketches about both Halloween and the upcoming congressional elections . Lorne Michaels , the executive producer , appears in the cold opening mentioning the recent network cuts as he gives five minutes of his program to a foreign correspondent . It's Borat , played by Sacha Baron Cohen , a Kazakistan reporter . He basically speaks in broken English constantly repeating " Swing ! " from Wayne's World while shaking himself . After a lot of tasteless , but funny , material Borat says , " Live from New York , home of the Jew ( grimaces ) , it's Saturday Night ! " After opening credits , Hugh Laurie comes on stage speaking in his natural British accent and talks about English humor ( " which is spelled with a ' u ' where I'm from " ) . He also points out England is " where my right nipple is , if I had one " after given a map of the United States . First sketch is a parody of a paranormal show in which Bill Hader , Fred Arminsen , and Amy Poelher try to identify what Hugh's fart is saying . Hilarious ! In a Fox World Series sketch , Maya Rudolph is the winner of the National Anthem contest so she begins the game with a shrill rendition mixed with some lyric's to " Take Me Out to the Ball Game " . On TV Funhouse , we are shown an actual Republican public service ad showing Osama bin laden's photo with a quote of " kill all Americans " emphasized . The cartoon Bush then shows a couple of spoofs : The first one has a cut-off of Ted Kennedy saying " We'll cut and run " before Frenching Osama with Barak Obama in Count von Count makeup with a " Count Obama " T-shirt saying , " One abortion bill , two abortion bill " . The second has a pregnant woman opening the door for trick-or-treaters with Hilary Clinton coming out of her womb and then licking pregnant woman's face ! That one scares W . as he asks Cheney how much longer . " Two years " is the answer as credits roll . It should come as no surprise that Al Franken was one of the writers of this cartoon . On Hardball , Chris Mathews ( Darrell Hammond ) talks to Republican Ken Mehlman ( Andy Samberg ) about one of the congressman being a TCBY strangler . Mehlman says he's already been replaced by John Wayne Gacy , Jr . ( Photo shows him looking exactly like his father ) . Democrat chairman Howard Dean ( Jason Sudakis ) mentions his party will raise taxes for everyone including " the very , very , poor " and " we're bad on defense " though the poll shows the public disagreeing . He then challenges Mehlman to a fight as sketch ends . Laurie is once again standing on home base as he sings a protest folk song while muffling what he's protesting about . In a hotel sketch , Laurie is representing the queen and telling coordinator Kristen Wiig what the queen expects when she comes like " wanting to have mini tables and chairs so she can feel superior " not to mention wanting " mini-guards to run from the queen " . Needless to say , Hugh won't show up when she arrives . Beck sing his first set , " Nausea " with small marionettes of his band to the right of them . On Weekend Update , Amy begins by saying President Bush will change from saying " Stay the Course " to " Think Outside the Bun " . Seth Myers mentions New Jersey's favorable ruling of gay civil unions leading to Armisen and Hader portraying an Italian gay couple who say " oh ! " a lot . Commenting on the upcoming elections is Congressman Tim Calhoun ( Will Forte ) . Among his beliefs : " I've always loved pages . . . I'm a voracious reader . . . of child pornography . . . studies . " " I did not approve this message . " In a hospital sketch , Kenan Thompson has a broken leg but doesn't trust Dr . Forte's diagnosis . Neither does his " wife " Laurie who is in blond wig and a dress . It ends , after Kenan falls down trying to leave , with Laurie telling us to trust your physician even though they don't do like the TV doctors ( Hugh seems to imply on a particular doc he plays on Fox . . . ) . On the Late Late Movie ( announcer asks , " Are those still around ? " ) , English villagers are looking for Dr . Frankenstein . The Monster ( Bill Hader ) says that he's not here and directs them to the other side where Dracula ( Jason Sudakis ) tells them to go back . Monster again tells them they're in the wrong castle and then accuses them of racism ( because of his green skin ) . Then his arm falls off as the The Late Late Movie ends ( with announcer saying , " Seriously , I thought these things ended 10 years ago . " ) . Next Beck performs , " Clap Hands " with him playing guitar and harmonica while the other members bang utensils on plates at a table they're sitting at with a turkey displayed and marionettes again performing at their side . Finally , Laurie and Armisen are partners at a law firm interviewing Poehler for a job and complimenting her achievements with " oooouuuu " . When Amy gets hired , she does some " oooouuuu " herself before getting fired because it's interpreted as sarcastic by the partners . After that are the goodnights . . . Most of the highlights I've mentioned are from the first 30 minutes . The show loses a little steam after Weekend Update but it's consistently amusing throughout . Beck's performances were certainly some of the most unusual I've seen in the history of SNL . Hugh certainly holds his own throughout . So overall , a good show . Next time , Alec Baldwin and Christina Agulera .
Automatic for the People was just okay compared to the last episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	While I agree this episode was a setback from the previous season premiere , Automatic for the People was still a pretty enjoyable episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " . The most enjoyable scene for me was when Cameron in that hot outfit at the pool table was asking Bob if it was still her turn after sinking nearly every ball her first time out ! It was also a nice surprise seeing a pregnant Busy Phillips as the woman selling Sarah the house at the beginning . She's been a favorite actress of mine since I first watched her in " Freaks and Geeks " . And thanks to someone at tvguide . com for identifying that concerned guy at the nuclear plant as the one who played Ryan Chapelle on " 24 " . When Derek Resse later discovered him hung in his house and we saw his cyborg replacement , those provided some very exciting fight scenes with Cameron and Sarah . The only concern I have is with John letting Riley into the new house so soon after meeting her so it was reassuring when Cameron sees no danger from her yet . Overall , a pretty good episode so until next time . . .
The Velocity of Sara is an exciting , if unsatisfying , final episode of Vanished	As we begin this final episode , Sara is driving in a stolen car at night being chased by her captors in a helicopter . When they land , they search the now empty car and find Sara gone . Unbeknowst to them , Sara is hiding in front of a big tree that none of them are aware is nearby . As daybreak comes , Sara has slept in front of a house in Warm Springs as she gets awakened by a little girl who lives there . It is about this time that Lucas and Lin Mei find the stolen car with bloodstains on it . They manage to find the guy who drove it and while Lin Mei leaves , Lucas threatens to do him bodily harm if he doesn't tell the truth . He does . Lucas has also met with Jeffery Collins ' father and confronted him about his silhouette in young Sara's torture scene . He mentions visiting there a couple of times then leaves in a huff . Peter Manning the fisherman gives proof he's the father of Sara's child to Judy Nash . Nash goes to her boss to try to get her exclusive on the air . No dice unless Sara is proved to be the mother . Lucas and Lin Mei come to the Collins house to tell Jeffery and ex-wife Jessica that Sara called the night before . Jessica says she didn't know but the ex-husband doesn't believe her . The children , Max and Marcy , try to figure out how to get to Ben when Max calls about Ben's credit card charges pretending to be him . He finds out the last five were for a cab in Washington , D . C . Ben is there to get a gun . He joins a club to get it quickly . He finds Rainer , follows him , and when Rainer turns around in his home , shoots him . It's around this time that we find out that Lucas and Lin Mei's boss has contact with Sara's kidnappers . Seems he's in cahoots with them and , later on , with Jeffrey's father and Judy's boss in that secret organization we keep seeing . Back at the house that Sara stays , she finds out the kindly mother who let her stay is calling her husband about the reward offered by the senator . Sara then steals the keys and escapes in a stolen car but not before the daughter calls to her parents . Lucas and Lin Mei then arrive for questioning after which they arrive at a bus station and find out Sara has bought a one-way ticket to Massachusettes . Peter at this point had given up on finding Sara or his daughter but at night on his boat Nicky , there Sara is explaining who she really is but Peter doesn't really care as they embrace . . . Okay , so Sara knows she once was Nicky and had abandoned Peter . When Sara was brainwashed at 19 , what was Jeffery's father interest in doing so ? What did he have against Jeffery's relationship with her ? And what deal has he struck with the FBI man and Judy's boss concerning Sara and their secret organization ? I'm afraid these questions will never be answered nor will we find out what will happen when Sara is exposed with Peter . Overall , a pretty good final episode that , nevertheless , was obviously not supposed to be . Kudos to the entire cast though I wish Gale Harold had been allowed to stay on especially after Eddie Cibrian had ripped into his boss almost the same way Harold would have done . Oh , well . With Vanished now completed , that's one less of many shows , new or otherwise , I have to worry about catching up on though there's 24 coming in a few weeks . . . Update / 07-What I just reviewed was actually Episode 13 , Warm Springs .
Saturday Night Live starts 32nd season with Dane Cook and the Killers	On the September 30 , 2006 cold opening , we are at a South Carolina town hall where the state comptroller ( Jason Sudeikis ) is speaking . All of his supporters , including President George W . Bush ( Will Forte ) , are there . Bush annoys some people with his constant speaking during the speech . Sudeikis ends up saying , " Live from New York , It's Saturday Night . " New montage is revealed for the 32nd season opener with Sudeikis , Bill Hader , and Kristen Wiig no longer featured players . In fact , there are no featured players this season . Dane Cook then does a 10-minute monologue about how some friends committed suicide , and some YouTube videos . First sketch is about Federal Aviation's meeting about what constitutes liquid ( no , not turkey sandwiches ) . Next , Hugo Chavez ( Fred Armisen ) has a McLaughlin Group-style discussion with other foreign leaders about the evils of America and Bush . In " Al Pacino Balances His Check " , Pacino ( Hader ) calls someone at Wells Fargo ( Wiig ) to transfer some of his savings to checking . Musical guest The Killers perform their first song , " When You Were Young . " We then see Amy at the Update desk being greeted by Brian Williams ( yes , the real one ) , who is expected to be the new co-anchor . Actually , it's Seth Myers . Williams leaves disappointed . After commercial break , Don Pardo , for the first time since Norm McDonald , introduces the new Weekend Update team . Amy begins by mentioning that two foreign leaders refuse to shake hands at the White House which is made more awkward when Osama bin laden shows up . Senator George Allen ( Sudeikis ) apologizes for saying the word " macaca " , Dustin " Screech " Diamond ( Andy Samberg ) tries to plug his sex video , and Myers ends with an item about a robber trying to steal a Tickle Me , Elmo doll getting subdued by a Give Me a Reason , Bert one with a picture of Bert with a switchblade behind Seth . Update simply ends with Amy and Seth saying good night and shaking hands . Next sketch has Cook and Forte as water delivery men who get caught hiding empty bottles from boss Wiig ( amusing scene of bottle after bottle falling in closet lasts about two minutes ) that ends with them getting fired and Forte mentioning a friend from SNL who will submit the sketch we just saw and also mentioning having another friend from Studio 60 while Cook mentions knowing someone from 30 Rock ( though the show in that one is actually titled , " The Girlie Show " ) . The Killers perform their second song , " Bones " then , after another commercial break , Amy appears as a spaced out Farrah Fawcett plugging a save the ocean life PSA before leaving set to appear in a closing time sketch . This sketch has Cook and Sudeikis forcing customers to leave bar by any means necessary . Finally , a Geico commercial parody with Samberg as a college student and Maya Rudolph as Whitney Houston mentioning her past drug problems . Mostly amusing show with the highlights being Hugh Chavez , Federal Avation meeting , and another Update piece with Bill Clinton ( Darrell Hammond ) and Condi Rice ( Rudolph ) as well as Pacino , some of the water bottle sketch , and a digital short called Cubicle Fighting . This was Cook's second show and he did fine throughout . The next episode will have Jamie Pressley with musical guest Corinne Bailey Rae .
Mysto-Fox is a rare Fox and Crow cartoon from Columbia that seems to exist in only black-and-white	Just watched a black-and-white version of this originally Technicolor Columbia / Fox and Crow cartoon on ThadBlog as linked from Daily Motion . In this one , Mysto-Fox puts out a sign in front of the carnival for a rabbit audition . Guess who applies . Seeing the Crow put on rabbit ears and tail and barely fooling the Fox with his disguise is pretty amusing as are some other stuff the Crow pulls on the Fox . But the Fox himself isn't so naive as evidenced by the short's ending . Mysto-Fox was pretty entertaining and hearing the Fox almost use Bugs Bunny's familiar trademark line made me think how Mel Blanc was the original voices of these characters before he signed an exclusive contract with Warner Bros . So with that said , Mysto-Fox is recommend to anyone who's curious about these rare Columbia cartoons .
The Groove Tube is still entertaining despite some dated ' 70s moments	Just finished watching The Groove Tube which I first saw about 23 years ago when I was a teenager staying up way past my bedtime watching HBO with my brother and his best friend . We had also watched Animal House just before that so we saw two movies that starred an SNL alumna and had some naked breasts . Good thing our parents were asleep the whole time ! Anyway , there were lots of weird and funny things in this movie that were eye-openers like the Brown 25 sequence of the Uranus Industries commercial ( " with the taste of beef stew " says the announcer as what is apparently human excrement comes out of a white tube . Ewww ! ) or the face of the puppet talking about VD ( a scrotum with a small penis with eyes glued on ) . Chevy Chase and Richard Belzer made their feature film debuts here . Chase is hilarious whether doing a Geritan spot with a woman stripping , having his hands have sex in a " Let Fingers Do It " commercial , or singing " Four Leaf Clover " with co-writer / director Ken Shapiro drumming his hands on his head . Belzer teams with Shapiro in " The Dealers " movie , and on " Channel One Evening News " with one wild bit having Belzer as a black prostitute trying tricks on reporter Ken who plays Lionel here . " Lionel , that sounds like a train that I'm going to ride like a Choo-Choo ! " Other outrageous bits include " The Koko Show " with Shipiro as a kid clown show host who , after ordering the " people over ten " to leave the room , reads requests of his viewers like passages of " Fanny Hill " ! Or how about the Olympics segment with a German couple making love being announced by two men ( one of them Spanish ) as they get explicit while " Please Stand By " keeps interrupting on the screen ! Or the animated segment on " The Dealers " which depicts dancing toilets after Shapiro ingested some marijuana ! Not everything's so dirty . Besides the " Four Leaf Clover " skit , at the end there's a highly amusing music segment with Ken lip-syncing his own recording of " Just You , Just Me " while dancing with suit and briefcase around the city with occasionally a cop ( co-writer Lane Sarasohn ) joining in . So , in summation this is one weirdly , funny movie that seemed to influence other like films ( Tunnelvision , Kentucky Fried Movie ) and possibly Saturday Night Live ( which made Chevy that show's first star ) and , despite some dated elements , can still amuse today . P . S . While I liked hearing Curtis Mayfield's " Move On Up " during the gorillas dancing / hitchhiking beginning sequence , I did wonder what the point was with the sequence of the hitchhiker and the woman who picked him up , having them running from the car , stripping on the run , and then having the naked man get caught by the cop who stopped on the road . Guess it's one of those ' 70s streaking things . . .
Pudgy Takes a Bow Wow is amusing late Betty Boop entry	This is one of the post-code Betty Boops in which she can no longer sing songs that hint at sexuality or show any skin ( usually the leg ) . Also , instead of Bimbo and Koko , Betty hangs with a little pup named Pudgy . In this one , Betty sings about being a Chinaman and an Italian organ grinder , both of which are depicted stereotypically . Pudgy is backstage resting until a stray cat comes that chases Pudgy or vice versa . When they end up on stage with Betty , they try to be more civil but once the curtain closes down , watch out ! Despite the stereotypes , a pretty amusing cartoon especially when Pudgy and the cat are around . Well worth seeing for Fleischer fans .
Second episode of " The Big Bang Theory " is another funny one worth watching	In a nutshell , Sheldon and Leonard are moving a heavy box into Penny's apartment which they discover is a mess . Sheldon , being a narcissistic clean freak attempts to clean it up but stops when Penny arrives . He later comes back while Penny is asleep with Leonard reluctantly helping . When she finds out , Penny bans them from her place . After talking with the quiet one of their friends , she changes her mind . . . This was another pretty funny episode of " The Big Bang Theory " that had a hilarious exchange in the beginning between Sheldon and Leonard when , after inviting Penny for a Superman marathon in their apartment , they debate how Superman could or could not logically rescue Lois Lane from a helicopter fall in mid-air . Loved also the physical comedy involving them moving the heavy box up the stairs to Penny's apartment . Well worth viewing between " How I Met Your Mother " and " Two and a Half Men " . Hope CBS keeps this one on the air for awhile !
Fourth episode of " The Big Bang Theory " is very amusing thanks to guest star Laurie Metcalf	After Sheldon insults his new boss at his party at the university and gets fired , he spends time at home doing " experiments " on scrambled eggs and flabbergasts Penny when he goes grocery shopping with her . So Leonard brings Sheldon's mom ( Laurie Metcalf , another former co-star of Galecki's from " Rosanne " ) to talk some sense into her son . As Sheldon gets his job back , his new boss and his mom start to get acquainted . . . With this episode , we find out Sheldon's background as the son of a southern religious mother with father long departed . Some very good lines from guest star Metcalf whom I guess we'll see even more in the coming weeks . Not too hilarious but a very amusing episode of " The Big Band Theory " overall .
I Drink Your Blood is one enjoyably shocking and weird horror movie from the early ' 70s	A day or so after watching the first half of Torgo's Drive-In ( Guru , the Mad Monk ) on Google Video , I finally watched the second half-Jerry Gross ' production of David Durston's I Drink Your Blood . With Satan-worshiping hippies being fed rabies in meat pies by a boy getting revenge on their attacking his grandpa and teenage sister , what's not to like ? And the fact that one of the females contaminates some construction workers after they all have sex with her makes even more cheesy fun when we see them all run like the craziest bunch of loonies around ! Actually , the story is quite involving and I did care for the victims and was on the edge of my seat during the climatic battle as they fight for their lives . And , my , how shocking many of the killings were with the live chicken's neck being cut the first of many real spine-tinglers ( Doesn't make me stop eating them however ! ) And all this between stilted dialogue and way weird Moog synthesizer music makes this one of the most wonderfully bizarre horror films from ' 70s I've seen yet . That black guy's saying in a stereotypical gay voice about rounding up his people all in a row especially made me giggle . What can I say except see this movie if you're in the mood for one of these nasties . P . S . Like the previous feature on Torgo's Drive-In , this one had out-of-sync dialogue that almost marred the whole experience . It also had film ads for the concession . The trailers attached were for Blood Orgy of the She Devils , The Love Cult , and Girl in Gold Boots .
Thelma Todd shines in last short performance	This is the last short Thelma Todd did with Patsy Kelly before her death from mysterious circumstances . All-American Toothache concerns an upcoming college football game that will be lost unless quarterback ( and former Our Ganger ) Mickey Daniels passes his dentistry exam which hinges on his getting a wisdom tooth . Todd and Kelly are waitresses who work in a nearby diner that many of Daniels ' teammates go to . When they mention to Todd their troubles concerning Mickey , Todd manages to convince Kelly ( without telling her why ) to have her wisdom tooth pulled . As they sit in the waiting room , they hear drills so loud that Patsy almost leaves before coming to where the drills were from and finding out that they were overhearing two men trying to fix a sink ! The actual dentist , Mickey's teacher , is puzzled when Thelma tells him they want his student , not him . This results in a mix-up between Mickey's teammates and his fellow dental students . Very amusing banter between Thelma and Patsy and hilarious performance from Mickey Daniels ( especially when you hear his donkey laugh ! ) . It almost loses steam in the end but there's one more twist at the end that I won't reveal here . Good direction from usual Our Gang helmer Gus Meins . If you're a Hal Roach completist , by all means seek this one out !
Boy ! What a Girl ! should prove a fascinating find for fans of Tim " Kingfish " Moore	While Boy ! What a Girl ! is a silly race musical comedy from the late ' 40s , there's at least one noteworthy thing about it : It stars Tim Moore years before he became well known as George " Kingfish " Stevens on TV's " Amos ' n ' Andy " . This is his only film role playing a character since he had been a specialty act previously in maybe one or two movies . He's quite funny here in drag pretending to be Mme . Deborah Martin ( really Sybil Lewis ) in order to secure backing for a show whose co-backer , a Mr . Cummings ( Alan Jackson ) , falls for the pretend Deborah . Also falling for him , er , her is landlord Donaldson ( Warren Patterson ) . All three are a hoot to watch here . Mr . Jackson's daughters , Francine ( Sheila Guyse ) and Cristola ( Betti Mays ) , are in love with the would-be producers , Jim Walton ( Elwood Smith ) and Harry Diggs ( Duke Williams ) and would only be allowed to marry them if the pretend Deborah approves . The real Deborah is watching the whole thing as well as several musical acts hoping to be incognito for a while . That's all I'll mention except that both the comedy and music segments keep the movie running at a breezy hour and 9 minutes . Among the entertaining song spots : Ms . Mays performing " Crazy riffin ' " , Slam Stewart singing with his trio " Oh Me , Oh My , Oh Gosh " ( Slam's most famous composition is " Flat Foot Floogie " which was recently played in The English Patient ) , Deek Watson-who I previously watched in Abbott and Costello's Pardon My Sarong when he was one of The Ink Spots-doing " Just You Change Your Mind " and " Baby , You're the Cutest One " ( His most famous composition is " ( I Love You ) For Sentimental Reasons " ) , and drummer Sidney Catlett doing his thing before Gene Krupa-the only white cast member here-replaces him briefly . Anyone interested in a rare comedy find from the race movie era , Boy ! What a Girl ! is one worth looking for . P . S . In continuing to point out people associated with my birth state of Illinois , Mr . Moore was born in Rock Island , Mr . Catlett died in Chicago in 1951 , and Mr . Krupa was born there in 1909 .
Chuck Versus the Wookie is another pretty good episode of " Chuck "	Some steam was picked up with this episode because of the presence of rouge spy Corrina ( Mini Alden ) . An occasional partner to Sarah and , apparently , lover to Casey , she shakes things up by agreeing to " double date " with Morgan , Chuck and Sarah by watching a movie on TV while planning a heist of a stolen diamond . Chuck , displeased to learn that Sarah was another girl that loved his late ex-roommate from college Brice , decides to trust Corrina this time around . Big mistake . I'll stop there and mention how I loved the fights between Corrina and Sarah . I also loved seeing how weak Casey is whenever Corrina strips for some lovemaking especially when he's tied up in bed ! And Morgan is less irritating here as he first finds himself in love with the bad agent then tries to recover when she drops him . And the way she comes on to Chuck ! You know what he'd like to do to her if there wasn't Sarah around ! Sarah herself gets some points for revealing her middle name to us if not to Chuck : Lisa . Like last week's episode , the dialogue between characters was more interesting than the actual plot but that's enough for now . Will be back here next week . . .
Third episode of " Chuck " has the title character on his first assignment	In this , the third episode of " Chuck " , the title character is sent on his first spy mission : go to a cocktail party with Sarah to find a killer of someone who deals in paintings . He's also up for a promotion for assistant manager at Buy More . Agent John Casey , who works with Chuck at Buy More , asks if he knows how to tango . Chuck takes lessons from his sister Ellie's boyfriend , " Captain Awesome " . He later finds out he got taught the girl's side . Chuck's Buy More co-worker and friend Morgan offers to help with the Nerd Herd in working with some computers left over from Chuck's rival for promotion , Tang . Unfortunately , he gets locked from inside and is stuck since Chuck , who's at his assignment at this point , has the key . Chuck dances with a woman at the party who turns out to be an assassin . Things start to get hairy for Chuck but Sarah and John are on the way . . . I don't think I completely got the plot but I enjoyed many of the fight scenes that John and Sarah got into . And when those goons went in Buy More looking for Chuck , I loved the way John beat one of them with a microwave just as he was going to shoot Chuck and the way John beat the other one into refrigerators before putting him into a large ice box ! Also loved the exchanges between Sarah and Chuck as to what he'd do if they were on an actual date . The actor playing Morgan may need to dial it down a bit but otherwise this was a good episode .
Haredevil Hare was our introduction to Marvin the Martian	While Bugs is initially reluctant to go on a rocket to the moon , the carrots that are dropped inside makes him change his mind . After he lands there , a Martian ship also stops there . A funny-looking little man in a Roman soldier outfit comes out and speaks in a funny voice ( though it's different than the eventual voice we know him from ) . This guy , who we eventually know as Marvin the Martian , nonchalantly tells Bugs , after he asks what he's doing with his space modulator , that he plans to blow up the earth . It takes awhile before the rabbit stops him so Marvin then sends his dog after him . Bugs outsmarts the dog by changing one word in their exchange that makes the dog give his explosive back to Bugs . There's a chase and . . . Oh , just watch the short . Nice introduction of a space series that also incorporated Daffy Duck and Porky Pig in another Marvin the Martian cartoon called Duck Dodgers . . . Highly amusing throughout .
Body Bags is scarily atmospheric for John Carpenter and Tobe Hooper fans	Body Bags was John Carpenter's attempt to produce an anthology series for Showtime . This movie is all we have of what it would be like with the director appearing as a morgue attendant who drinks formaldehyde as he hosts the three stories . Amusing lines abound throughout . The first segment titled " The Gas Station " has a young woman ( Alex Datcher ) on her first night as the titled attendant all alone . First there's Pete ( David Naughton ) getting some gas and flirting with her . Then a stranger asks for bathroom keys . When he doesn't return the lady investigates . . . Watch for cameos by horror directors Sam Raimi and Wes Craven . Robert Carradine also appears . Carpenter's direction makes this a pretty good atmospheric start . Second segment called " Hair " has Stacy Keach wanting badly to keep from going bald . David Warner on TV provides the solution . Soon , Keach and his girlfriend , Sheena Easton , can't stop making love . But soon after his barber cuts some of the new hair , they start to move . . . Hilarious and creepy at the same time , this one is so wonderfully weird that I'd rather you be surprised at this one . Carpenter hits the bulls-eye with this segment . Look for Deborah Harry as a nurse and Kim Alexis as a beautiful blonde who Keach notices in slow motion . Final segment " Eye " has Mark Hamill as a baseball player who's scoring is off the charts . Then he gets in a car accident that causes him to lose one eye . Doctors Roger Corman and John Agar give him a new one but then Hamill starts acting strangely which makes his wife ( Twiggy ) very worried . . . Tobe Hooper really gives the chills with this one as he haunts with various images that really give Mark Hamill something to work with . The end is especially frightening with the closeup of a bible passage spread with blood after Hamill stabs his " criminal " eye . So , in summation , see Body Bags if you're a big horror fan of all of the above directors I've just mentioned and I hope you don't end up in John Carpenter's morgue . .
Pilot episode of Chuck should provide enough excitement for another NBC hit	Just saw the pilot for the new hour-long spy series " Chuck " . It has a pretty amusing premise : The title character played by Zachary Levi lives with his sister and her boyfriend . This sister ( Sarah Lancaster who I remember from " Everwood " as Madison ) tries to get her brother to date again after a long-ago breakup he hadn't gotten over . Also hanging around is best friend and fellow worker in the Nerd Herd of Buy More , Morgan ( Joshua Gomez ) . Then one day , Chuck gets an e-mail from his old college roommate Brice Larkin ( Matthew Bomer ) who's not an accountant as Chuck thought but a spy who gets killed before sending his message . Suddenly , Chuck has images in his mind . And a woman named Sarah ( Yvonne Strzechowski ) and a man named John ( Adam Baldwin ) start appearing in Chuck's store . . . This was a pretty fast-paced and humorous start for what I'm sure will be a clever and exciting new action series for NBC and should attract many Heroes fans ( like me ) wanting to watch something as entertaining while waiting . Should be another hit for the Peacock network ! Directed by McG ( Charlie's Angels and Charlie's Angels : Full Throttle ) .
Chuck Verses the Sandstorm is another good episode of " Chuck "	Every week it seems Chuck has trust issues with his handlers , Sarah and Casey . This time another person he meets named Laszlo gives a good reason for him to have them : He mentions the bugs hidden in his house . After finding them he confronts Casey about them , Casey tells him its for his own good although he hates the conversations about sandwiches Chuck has with Morgan . Chuck is also up for an assistant manager position at Buy More and tells Morgan to grow up . Morgan enlists the help of Devon ( " Capt . Awesome " ) . As he bonds with Laszlo watching James Bond movies , Chuck's unaware of how dangerous Laszlo really is . . . That conversation about sandwiches on a deserted island that irks Casey so much is a highlight of the episode as is the whole costume party that climaxes the hour with Chuck and Morgan really bonding over the annual Dune sandworm outfit they always dress in at this time of Halloween . I recognized a fellow agent that appears here as Samantha's superior on " Samantha Who ? " last week . He sure is one strange looking dude ! Also loved the whole scene of Awesome telling Morgan to tuck his shirt as a way of acting more mature . Looks like they really are trying to make him a little less irritating though I still loved when he revealed to Ellie's boyfriend that when he was 12 , he stayed under the bed to look at her undress ! Hope the ratings pick up this week !
Moon Over Miami was enjoyable fluff for audiences wanting escapism	Having just been to Miami for the first time in my life , I finally decided to check out this Betty Grable musical from 20th Century-Fox that took place and was partly filmed there after having taped it from AMC 10 years ago . The flimsy plot about gold diggers is a bit longish but many entertaining musical numbers and some humor does put it over on me quite smoothly . Certainly the cast , which includes Robert Cummings , Don Ameche , Carole Landis , Charlotte Greenwood , Jack Haley , and especially Ms . Grable are very charming here with wonderful Technicolor photography and melodically tuneful songs by Ralph Ranger and Leo Robin . In short , Moon Over Miami was just an entertaining piece of fluff that went over well for audiences that survived the Depression and was just about to enter World War II . . .
The Hellcats is a pretty funny episode of " Mystery Science Theater 3000 "	After watching the original , uncut theatrical version of The Hellcats , I was anxious to watch MST3K's version . Loved many references to " How the Grinch Stole Christmas " that Joel and the ' bots threw at the screen . They also point out how pointless many motorcycle scenes as well as those that depict the cycle gang partying and copping a feel on some of the hot ladies are . They also make fun of the leading man , Ross Hagen ( who starred in another MST3K victim , The Sidehackers ) , and the director , Robert Slatzer , who has a role as a drug dealer here . The in-between segments has each of the characters doing a visual diary of their day in the Satellite Of Love complete with flashback scenes provided by Cambot . I loved the one when Joel points out pictures to the ' bots making them guess if it's funny or not . They correctly pick Sally Field as The Flying Nun as not ! LOL ! Very good episode of " Mystery Science Theter 3000 " . With the Christmas season coming , I may review Santa Claus Conquers the Martians next . Until then . . .
Duke Ellington in his brief number was the highlight of Murder at the Vanities	Since this is Black History Month and I'm reviewing the achievements of many African-Americans on film in chronological order , I got this movie on VHS from the library because Duke Ellington and his Orchestra were in it . Their jazz version of Franz Liszt's " Rhapsody " was the highlight of this mostly overlong murder mystery-musical comedy mixture . Many other numbers I liked were Kitty Carlisle's especially " Sweet Marijuana " , Carl Brisson's " Cocktails for Two " as well as his duet with Carlisle on that earlier , and the ones by Gertrude Michael who's great as the woman you love to hate . Jack Oakie and Victor McLaglen probably go a little too long with their love / hate banter as the producer and detective but they grow on you . And Toby Wing is a sexy dumb tease as Nancy who keeps trying to say something to Oakie but gets a " Not now " from him every time . While many of the characters have a motive for the murders that happen , I wasn't surprised by the revelation of who done it . And get a load of how naked the women here are ( though of course their breasts are covered , either by their hands or some flimsy top ) . This was very obviously pre-Code . Worth a look for any film buff interested in this sort of thing . P . S . As a long-time Louisiana resident , I like noting when someone was born here as Carlisle was a New Orleans native .
Any Bonds Today ? is one of the most fascinating of early Bugs Bunny rarities	I have recently discovered the blog for the new Matinée at the Bijou that PBS had revived after an absence of about 20 years . So on their listings of previous episodes , there was one devoted to propaganda shorts encouraging participation in the armed forces of World War II . One of those was a nearly 2-minute musical short cartoon from Leon Schlesinger called Any Bonds Today ? that had Bugs Bunny singing the title song recently written by Irving Berlin " asking you to buy your share of freedom today-y-y-y " . The wabbit also briefly changes into Jolson with black-face before being joined by Elmer and Porky for the finale . As directed by Bob Clampett , this was pretty entertaining and still provides some pleasure at seeing an emerging popular cartoon character displayed in an important Public Service spot for mass audiences at the time . For any offended by the few seconds of burnt cork on Bugs ' face , be aware that this was accepted public humor at the time with no malice whatsoever . So for anyone interested in World War II history or that of Warner Bros . cartoon rarities , I highly recommend Any Bonds Today ?
Shop Look & Listen is another Friz Freleng cartoon featuring the characters of Little Blabermouse	This is basically the sequel to Little Blabbermouse with the same W . C . Fields-like mouse character and the little blabbermouth boy mouse that bothers him . Once again they tour a big department store after hours with exhibits like Whistler's Mother ( who whistles ) , The Thinker ( who says he thinks while looking over his tax form ) , and a painting of two Indians-or Native Americans to you modern audiences-with one killing the other before saying , " Now , Me , Last Mohican ! " There's also a robot card table with one getting shot at because of his ace up his sleeve ! Once again , Friz Freleng has made a pretty funny cartoon featuring these two characters though like the last one , it's more due to the gags not involving them than their repetitious chatter , amusing though they are . Not surprising that neither appeared in another cartoon though the mouse-with-a-W . C . Fields-like-voice did inhabit a later Warner Bros . character named Merlin the Magic Mouse in the late ' 60s . Nonetheless , Shop Look & Listen is worth a look .
Title role in The Grey Fox is one of Richard Farnsworth's most compelling	When Richard Farnsworth died a few years ago , among the films cited were his Oscar-nominated roles in Comes a Horseman and The Straight Story , and his supporting roles in hits like The Natural and Misery . The Grey Fox rarely got a mention which is a shame because it's one of Mr . Farnsworth's most compelling as we follow his portrayal of the real-life stagecoach robber Bill Miner after being freed from jail and his attempts in living a straight life with his sister and her husband . But times have changed the last 33 years and so in the early 20th century , Miner goes back to his old habits and robs trains ( he got the inspiration watching The Great Train Robbery ) , then poses as George Edwards in a British Columbia town with his cohorts in tow . He also later falls for a feminist who takes pictures . . . I'll stop there and say while Miner does bad things , he gets some admiration for the gentlemanly way he does them , hence his " gentleman bandit " moniker . If you're interested in western rarities and are a fan of Farnsworth , I highly recommend The Grey Fox .
Cat , Dog , & Co . was another funny " Our Gang " effort	This Hal Roach comedy short , Cat , Dog , & Co . , it the eighty-seventh in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . It's also the next to last silent one . The beginning H . M . Walker inter-title reads , " Be kind to all animals-Even an oyster appreciates sympathy . " As Joe , Harry , and Farina race their kiddie cars , which are all propelled by a pulling dog under each one , a lady snitch tells them she's notified the society about this and the cat they chase up a tree . The Mrs . President of the Be Kind to Animals Society ( Hedda Hopper ) convinces all three to show compassion to every living creature . Joe first demonstrates this newfound lesson when , after seeing Jean and Mary Ann attempt to step on fleas that bother Pete the Pup , tells them not to hurt even the smallest living thing . One of them ( in animated form ) then says , " Hooray ! A friend ! I'll stick to him ! " which he does to Joe throughout the short in constant irritation . Then Weezer gets a talking to after trying to chop a chicken's head but it takes a dream in which he's being tried before a jury of giant poultry with a prosecuting monkey and an owl judge he previously threw things at to convince him . So the gang frees dogs , rabbits , and mice to the consternation of various passersby as they twitch and grimace at every turn before the policeman tells them all to put them back in . And then there's Pete with the flea problem again . . . Another funny " Our Gang " short that milks as much laughs as possible out of the " Be Kind to Animals " theme . Highlights are Weezer's dream trial especially when one giant chicken pecks him on the head and the nightmarish ending , before he wakes up , as they all try to devour him ! That sequence , as well as the animated flea that also was in an earlier " Our Gang " short-Thundering Fleas , was the work of Roy Seawright whose subsequent work would include the invisibility effects in Roach's " Topper " series and who would then become an associate of animation director Tex Avery . About Ms . Hopper , she would eventually become a famous Hollywood gossip columnist that occasionally printed " Our Gang " items , especially about Farina . One more note : while silent , Cat , Dog , & Co , did have synchronized music score and sound effects ( like dogs barking or chickens clucking ) , originally on disc only , that was pretty effective here .
Vanished : The Feed keeps the story moving	At the end of last week's episode , a modern casket was recovered from an old Civil War cemetery buried under sea . All that was found was an earring . Agent Lin Mei compares it to the earrings in the computerized pictures of the former mayor's dead wife . Perfect match . Also , there are scratches inside that tell us the woman was buried alive . Meanwhile , Ben Wilson is getting beaten up by someone sent by his " lawyer " to shut him up . Instead , Agent Kelton shoots this someone and has Ben transferred to safer facilities . Peter Manning , the man who claimed Sara Collins was really his fiancée Nikki Johnson , finds the tape of him with her stolen and goes on television with tabloid reporter to make his story public . Senator Collins meets with Manning and tells him to back off . The Supreme Court nominee who had carried an affair with Collins ' daughter Marcy and had pictures of Nikki Johnson removed from her former bar calls someone who is preparing to dig a grave . . . This may be a lot to follow but I'm still intrigued by what happens next . Ming-Na and everyone else keeps getting better and the story is moving forward with live pictures of Sara at an undisclosed location on computer screens though this Quinn woman managed to get the plug pulled before anything else gets found out . Can't wait till next week !
This Max Fleischer version of The Raven was a highly amusing surprise for me	This was another cartoon I found on Uncle John's Crazy Town blog . This was a Max Fleischer Color Classic that ran for two reels which is approximately 14 minutes instead of the usual six . Very loosely based on the Edgar Allan Poe poem , the title character is a reformed criminal who now sells vacuums . His old friend , the fox , convinces him go to a castle in which a Scottie inhabits . What follows is some highly amusing gags concerning the fox's attempt to rob the safe while the raven demonstrates disastrously how his vacuum works though something equally funny redeems the raven and the vacuum at the end . Oh , and the rhyming lines and accompanying classical , as well as some big band , music also works here . If there's one big quibble , it's that I wished the version I watched hadn't looked so faded as the colors really looked washed out . Otherwise , I recommend The Raven as this was one of the last shorts made by Max and Dave Fleischer before Paramount forced them out of their studio , renamed it Famous , and then moved the building and the remaining crew back to New York from Miami .
Cecil B . DeMille's Reap the Wild Wind is good old-fashioned entertainment	Reap the Wild Wind is Cecil B . DeMille's contribution to such sea-faring adventure classics as The Sea Hawk or 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea . John Wayne plays a ship captain , Ray Milland plays a lawyer , and Paulette Godard a feisty southern belle who comes between them . There's plenty of fights , a trial , and an entertaining squid . There's Susan Hayward , Robert Preston , Louise Beavers , and Raymond Massey . There's a wonderful music score and beautiful Technicolor . There's a playful monkey and a talking dog ( coutesy of Milland's ventriloquism ) . And it begins with DeMille's narration to set the tone for an action-packed , if occasionally talky , picture . This is good old-fashioned filmaking at its finest ! For fans of all of the above , plus Hedda Hopper in her last role not playing herself , I highly recommend you definitely seek this one out !
Potapych : The Bear Who Loved Vodka is an entertaining 4-minute animated short	This is a four minute computer-animated short about a Russian bear named Potapych who makes friends with a man named Mishr sharing vodka drinks and having a good time partying everywhere they go . But then it ends in a poignant but satisfying way . Despite its short running time , this short makes its point in the most succinct way : you're nothing without friends and happiness . Wonderful use of Russian-style music and a narrator . I saw this on a recommendation of Jerry Beck at Cartoon Brew . The person who made this should definitely have a long career ahead of him . So by all means , if you're an animation buff and you take Mr . Beck at his word , make it a point to see this one .
A Bundle of Blues is a nice showcase for Ellington and featured singer Anderson	As the credit for Duke Ellington and his Orchestra slowly blinks back and forth , it dissolves to the marquee with the name still standing . Then we go right to the performance with the band playing one composition before going into " Stormy Weather " with featured singer Ivie Anderson , then one more jazz instrumental with a couple of female dancers before it's called a reel . . . This was another musical short compiled for the DVD collection " Hollywood Rhythm Vol . 1 : The Best of Jazz and Blues " . Since there's no contrived plot to mess things up , this was quite a find indeed . What there is here are some unusual wipes like during the " Stormy Weather " number when Ivie is transposed from the stage to a house inside as she watches rain through a window which wipes through other areas with storms brewing . Some of the wipes during the instrumentals are shaped like musical notes . So on that note , A Bundle of Blues is essential for anyone interested in everything Ellington .
Riding the Rails is another cute Betty Boop / Pudgy cartoon I watched on YouTube	This is another latter-day ( read : post-Code ) Betty Boop cartoon I watched on YouTube . It also features her puppy dog , Pudgy . Betty takes the train to work and tries to leave Pudgy behind but , unbeknownst to her , the dog goes along for the ride . . . Plenty of funny gags concerning automatic train doors , a woman hitting a man after Pudgy touches her leg , a heavyset man crowding some people on a bench , and the train itself making a face . There's also a thrilling chase concerning Pudgy and the train that results in one final gag in the present Betty gives him . In summary , if you don't mind the cleaned-up version of Betty here and can't get enough of her dog , I highly recommend Riding the Rails .
Enter Hamlet is one of several unique shorts by one Fred Mogubgub	Just discovered this unique short on Cartoon Brew . It's one of the works of Fred Mogubgub that was displayed there linked from YouTube . The others were The Pop Show and The Great Society , neither of which have been listed in Fred's IMDb entry . Enter Hamlet is a collage of images in cartoon form of a word put in balloon in each jump-cut scene as that word is said by the narrator Maurice Evans during his " To be or not to be . . . " soliloquy recording . Since I saw this on YouTube , I don't think I saw the clearest picture . Still , I was pretty fascinated by what I saw so if you're interested in what I just described this one is worth seeing . So are The Pop Show and The Great Society which are fascinating images of live-action photos in jump-cut collages .
Muriel's Wedding was a fine early showcase of Toni Collette and Rachel Griffiths	Just saw this Australian dramady , about a heavyset woman dreaming of a wedding in order to improve her self-esteem , for the second time with my parents . My mom , a big ABBA fan , loved the music but wasn't too crazy about the movie which possibly had a little too much sex talk for her tastes . Dad was amused by many of those scenes and half-quoted some of those lines . Besides the wonderful songs from the international Swedish quartet , there's the very compelling performances of Toni Collette in the title role and Rachel Griffiths as her best friend Rhonda . Their seriously flawed characters ( Muriel steals things and lies constantly , Rhonda frequently smokes even after being diagnosed with cancer ) nevertheless compel empathy because of their mix of stubbornness , honesty-when chips are down , and loyalty to each other . Many of the supporting characters , mainly Muriel's siblings and other " friends " , seem one-sided but others , like Muriel's no longer happy parents and the South African athlete she marries for convenience , have some depth to them . P . J . Hogan , later to helm the Julia Roberts hit My Best Friends Wedding , wrote and directed a pretty humorous and unsentimental depiction of being single and trying to grow up despite your surroundings . So on that note , I highly recommend Muriel's Wedding .
Apache Kid is one really weird pre-Code Krazy Kat cartoon	This is a really weird cartoon from Columbia Pictures ' Winkler / Mintz Studios starring Krazy Kat who , while based on George Herriman's comic strip character , is characterized much differently here . He plays the piano at a beat down nightclub while his girlfriend warbles a tune in between kissing him from the top of the piano . After doing their Apache dance , this girl gets kidnapped by a big bully of a cat . That's all I'll say except there are lots of pre-Code weird imagery like the way the villain grabs the girl by her upper body part or when one of the nightclub patrons smokes a cigarette shaped like a real camel ! I didn't find myself laughing as just marveling at how much the animators twist many animals and objects into such unusual shapes or positions that became rarer as years and decades passed on . So for that reason , I highly recommend Apache Kid .
Walt Disney's Once Upon a Wintertime provides wonderful animated winter settings throughout	Originally released as part of the omnibus animated feature Melody Time ( 1948 ) , Walt Disney made Once Upon a Wintertime as a separate short subject five years later . With the score consisting entirely of Francis Langford's rendition of the title song with a very long instrumental bridge , we watch a young adult couple riding on a sleigh accompanied by a similar male and female rabbit one down below on the blades . Then some little argument ensues before some thrilling thin ice danger brings everyone to a crescendo before the romantic happy ending ensues . Beautiful animation throughout and one gets that warm feeling nearly the entire time despite the cold setting . Well worth seeking out on YouTube which is where I watched this when I linked from the Saturday Morning Blog .
Despite some stereotypes , Song of the South can still entertain	Having not taken the chance to watch Song of the South when it was rereleased in 1980 and 1986 , I thought I'd never see this since there have been no further showings in America in neither cinemas , videocassettes , nor DVDs nor on any U . S . TV channels . It wasn't until I discovered the Saturday Morning Blog that I finally found this Disney movie on myspace there . Now , while I understand some objections about the roles of African-Americans in something other than a dignified manner in which they have to kowtow to white Americans and speaking with a dialect that may seem embarrassing today , I don't think that any of them depicted here are treated all that badly even if the roles themselves do lend to some standard stereotypes of the time . And James Baskett , who deserved his special Oscer when the Academy presented it to him , does wonders as the understanding Uncle Remus who brings out the best in positive attitudes to Johnny ( Bobby Driscoll ) and Ginny ( Luana Patten ) . As Disney's first live-action child stars , Driscoll and Patten are charming in their studio debuts as a rich boy who befriends a poor girl who's two older brothers ( Gene Holland and Georgie Nokes who played Little Harry Bailey in my favorite movie , It's a Wonderful Life ) do nothing but bully them . Glenn Leedy as black boy Toby also has some good chemistry with Driscoll . I especially liked the scene where they play with a frog . Among other notables in the live-action cast are Lucile Watson as Driscoll's grandmother , Hattie McDaniel as Aunt Tempy , and then real-life husband and wife team of Erik Rolf and Ruth Warrick as Johnny's parents . The best parts though are , of course , the animation of the Remus tales with Baskett voicing Br'er Fox , Nick Stewart as Br'er Bear , and Johnny Lee as Br'er Rabbit , the last two actors familiar to fans of the " Amos ' n ' Andy " radio and TV shows as Lightnin ' and Algonquin J . Calhoun , respectively . Seeing Br'er Rabbit trick both Fox and Bear constantly provided so much laughs for me . Kudos to Wilfred Jackson for the direction of such fast-paced scenes . The live-action scenes ( by Harve Foster ) weren't so bad either and both are fine whenever they're mixed especially during the Baskett " Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah " number that probably helped get that song the Academy Award that year . Parts of the ending ( like the last scene between Johnny and his parents ) might have been a bit sugar-coated for my taste but other than that , Song of the South was a very enjoyable family movie for me and it's a shame the Disney studio feels it can't show this anymore here because of political correctness . At least when Warner Bros . put out Cabin in the Sky , Hallelujah ! , and The Green Pastures on DVD , they have some disclaimer explaining the context of the material . The Disney Company could do the same here . In summation , I highly recommend Song of the South for anyone willing to tolerate something of another time that still entertains . P . S . I have to mention the fact that Wilfred Jackson and Erik Wolf were both born in my birthtown of Chicago , Ill .
I Should See . . . well , read below	In I Should See , the narrator is comparing motion pictures and still life . He seems to prefer the former for as he is talking we see two men , one of whom is loading up his camera , the other is posing with a woman doing various things namely undressing her . As we see photos flashing we see the woman with her shirt off revealing her black bra . As the flashing photos continue we see the man fooling with the bra until the moment her breasts are to be fully revealed then the narrator says , " Damn . No more pictures . " as screen is now completely black . Damn indeed . Good in a kindly erotic way . This is one of two shorts in The International Tournee of Animation , Volume 5 , that is directed by Paul De Nooijer . The other one is At One View .
Mother Goose Goes Hollywood was an entertaining Disney Silly Symphony featuring celebrity caricatures	I just recently ( as of today ) discovered a blog devoted to Cab Calloway called The Hi-De-Ho Blog . One section showcases caricatures of the legendary entertainer in various cartoons from Max Fleischer ( whose shorts Cab actually was involved in ) , Warner Bros . , M-G-M , and this one from Walt Disney in which Mother Goose characters are depicted as Hollywood celebrities . Mr . Calloway is one of the " four blackbirds in a pie sequence " and while that may have an unfortunate stereotypical connotation ( which may be true of some of the white celebrities too ) , seeing " Cab " , " Fats " , and " Louis " do their musical stuff was enjoyable . The only real negative portrayal of an African-American here was that of the lazy , shiftless , Stepin Fetchit character . Other depictions of celebrities I liked were that of W . C . Fields with Charlie McCarthy with Fields as Humpty Dumpty , The Marx Brothers sans Zeppo as the Fidlers Three ( Harpo appears here as a redhead and not a blonde ) , and Laurel and Hardy as Simple Simon and the Pieman with welcome use of Marvin Hatley's L & H musical theme " The Cukoo Song ( Dance of the Cukoos ) " . If there's one celebrity that may be obscure even to old movie buffs , it might be that of Joe Penner whose catchphrase " Wanna buy a duck ? " anticipates a very familiar Disney character . So despite some negative stereotypical characterizations , I recommend Mother Goose Goes Hollywood for any animation buff especially those of old-time movie star caricatures .
I Married Joan : Jealousy is pure hilarity	A member of Joan's women club is dealing with a jealous husband because the club's guest speaker , a Dr . Salazar , is staying with them . Joan agrees to have the doc stay at her house since her husband , Brad , doesn't get jealous . During his speech , Salazar mentions that the husband doesn't care for his wife if he doesn't get jealous so Joan says things to her husband to make him jealous later in the day . When Salazar comes to the Stevens household , Joan tells him her concerns about Brad's non-jealous attitude . Salazar explains that her husband is a different type and things would get worse if he did get jealous . Brad does indeed act in a strange way when he sees his wife touching the doctor's face as the doctor says goodbye ! There are plenty of hilarious scenes after the doctor comes back and Joan has to hide him that had me in stitches such as when Joan lied on him as he rested on a chair after he drank a sedative meant for Joan ! And watch for Joan's efforts to get him out of the house as he staggers to the door ! Funniest episode of I Married Joan so far . If you're a fan of Joan Davis and Jim Backus , by all means check this one out !
Jailhouse Rock is Elvis ' acting at his most compellingly insolent	After seeing Elvis Presley's second movie , Loving You , in which he was a young innocent who occasionally got into fights and accidental meetings with teenage girls , I played Jailhouse Rock in which he knocks down a man who dies , gets in penitentiary with a former country singer ( Mickey Shaughnessy ) , after time served coincidentally meets a female record executive ( Judy Tyler ) who-after hearing him sing-offers to take him , and then acts like a jerk when the success goes through his head . In this , Elvis ' third movie , his character-Vince Everett-is very surly and rude so frequently , you hope Shaughnessey , after getting free himself , really gives it to him ! On that note , this is one of Presley's most interesting acting performances I've seen him in yet having been used to his more goody-goody , " for the family " parts during much of the ' 60s . Tyler and Shaughnessy are also good for their parts as they provide plenty for the King to chew on . All the musical numbers , especially the title number , are spot on . Highly recommended for Elvis fans . Look for Disney regular Dean Jones in an early role as a disc jockey who plays Everett's record in exchange for a date with Tyler .
Alienation of Affections is another funny episode of I Married Joan	What starts out silly becomes hilarious when Joan encounters a man whose wife gets instantly jealous when she sees him near another woman ! Joan tries to get out of her mess by having her neighbor's husband pretend to be Brad but that husband's wife backs him out when he gets too convincingly intimate with Joan ! Mix that in with a milkman ( played by the highly amusing Hal March of The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show ) and a repairman and Jim Backus's constant out-of-the-loop shenanigans and you have one of the most funny outings of I Married Joan ever ! This show is seen late night Wednesdays on Family Net . Check you local listings if you want to see more of this worthy show .
Truth & Consequences is another exciting episode of " Heroes "	As Peter and Adam go look for the mysterious woman in the Company group photo , Hiro goes back in time in 1977 as this woman and his father Kaito has Adam arrested for fooling with this Shanti virus . This woman and Kaito argue about it with her wanting it destroyed . Instead , it's kept under wraps for the next 30 years . In Costa Verde , Calif . , Bob comes back to the Bennett household to give Noah's " ashes " and offer his condolences . He is not welcome . In Viriginia , Sylar and Maya are sitting near a lake when he tells her she can control her powers . To prove it , he says something that makes her almost want to kill him but she stops in time . Her brother , Alejandro , doesn't trust Sylar since he told him he's going to kill him and tries to convince his sister the same thing when he shows the article that reported Sylar's killing his mother . Sylar's confession convinces Maya it was in self-defense and since she's a killer also she sides with him . After she temporarily leaves , Sylar does kill her brother and just as Maya knocks , he comes out shirtless and manages to kiss her outside his door with her dead brother not far behind ! Ewww ! Okay , with that out of the way let's go on . . . Micah wants to show his late father's medal plaque to his New Orleans ' relatives but the backpack it's in is stolen . Turns out his male cousin gave or sold it to a gang . Micah almost beats him up but Monica convinces him to go to the gang to get it back . After she watches someone on a picture phone climbing up some walls , she executes her plan . Unfortunately , when the gang shows up , they find her hiding place and kidnap her . Micah attempts to rescue her . It's at this time that Mohinder calls Niki and tells her he's found a cure for her condition . Niki goes to Micah's room only to find he's gone . Mohinder has also been taking care of Noah who knows he's been revived with Claire's blood . He's not happy about that . Peter and Adam find this woman , Victoria Pratt ( Joanna Cassidy ) , who refuses to reveal where the virus is even after being tied up and held at gun point by both . Peter finds out when he reads her mind . Adam then shoots her after she is freed . As Claire spreads her father's " ashes " she expresses regret in not listening to him and tells West she wants her memory of him erased . He talks her out of it . We find out Elle has been parked nearby where Claire threatens her by smashing her window then as her hand heals in front of her also says she'll tell the world about her powers and blame her for her father's death . Back in Japan , Hiro promises to avenge his father's death and teleports to the Primatech Papaer building where he stops time and sees Peter with Adam . Only Peter is still moving as Hiro tells him not to trust Adam , Peter says he has no choice as Hiro moves in for the kill . . . Wow ! Except for the Sylar / Maya storyline , this was a very awesome episode ! Nice to see Claire mourning her father . Also nice to see two blondes facing off against each other . Should be exciting to see ! Oh , and one more thing to mention : Last we see of Sylar and Maya , they were in Molly's apartment on the phone with Mohinder . Uh-oh ! Hope next weeks " finale " ( with the writers ' strike still on , who knows when the next episodes after one more week will air ) ties most of the loose ends . Until next time . . .
Duck Dodgers . . . is an almost excellent cartoon for me	A lot of comments are saying this is one of the best cartoons ever . I'm not going to go that far but I give credit again to Chuck Jones and Michael Maltese for making some of the most creative cartoons in the history of animation . Loved the back and forth between Daffy and Marvin in trying to one-up each other whether it's claiming Planet X for Earth or Mars , pulling disintegrating guns on each other ( with Daffy's actually literally disintegrating ! ) , or passing bullets from their guns with threatening messages with Daffy's last one saying " Ouch ! " And space cadet Porky once again proves how smarter than Daffy he really is . So while I don't think Duck Dodgers in the 24 and a Half Century is a great cartoon , it's certainly a very good one .
Little Blabbermouse is an entertaining Friz Freleng musical cartoon	Just discovered this on the Misce-Looney-ous site linked from YouTube . In this one , a mouse barker who sounds like W . C . Fields tells his customers to take a ride in a basket for 10 cents . One little boy mouse who talks constantly bothers the Fields mouse but is tolerated by him when he offers his coin . On the ceiling ride in the store we see lots of products that literally live up to their names and many of them sing some popular songs that are in the Warner catalogue . I'll stop there and say what a very amusing and entertaining cartoon this was and with Friz Freleng as director it's no surprise how good musically this short was . One of the voices here is Thurl " Tony the Tiger " Ravenscroft who I didn't recognize as I watched this . Maybe I will when I decide to see this again . . .
Goofy's Freeway Troubles is another entertaining and educational Goofy cartoon	Just watched this Walt Disney educational cartoon starring Goofy on YouTube . This is the sequel to Freewayphobia # 1 and is the last time original Goofy voice Pinto Colvig would play this iconic character before his death in 1967 . This time , the Goofy character plays Stupidus Altimus-someone who's careless about everything especially driving and the many other things involving either packing , checking , or repairing his car . Quite a few hilarious visual gags like when the tire detaches from the running car on the freeway or when stripped to his boxers while stopping on the road , another running car takes away the polka dots on them ! And narrator Paul Frees can be both humorous and serious in making his points of how important a checklist is when preparing to take the automobile for a ride . So on that note , for Disney enthusiasts especially those of Goofy , I highly recommend Goofy's Freeway Troubles .
Dogs Is Dogs is a nearly perfect mixture of pathos and humor for " Our Gang "	This Hal Roach comedy short , Dogs Is Dogs , is the one hundred tenth in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series and the twenty-second talkie . With their father away , Wheezer and Dorothy are stuck with a mean stepmother and equally mean stepbrother in Spud . In addition , while Spud's dog Nero is allowed to play in bed with him because of his being pedigreed , Wheezer's Pete is dismissed as an alley dog . Since she's going out for awhile , Spud's mother tells Wheezer not to get her son dirty . During breakfast as Spud helps himself to some ham and eggs while Wheezer and Dorothy are stuck with the same old hash , Stymie comes in and manages to con skeptical Spud to cook some more ham and eggs by saying they can talk . As he , Wheezer , and Dorothy eat their breakfast , Spud has left and gotten himself stuck down a well that his dog pushed him into . Hearing this news , Wheezer and Stymie take their time in rescuing him and when they finally do , Spud threatens to tell his mom so they let go of the rope making him fall down again ! This time , Spud constantly tells them he won't tell then reneges again after he's finally out ! " Well , the dunking you got is worth the whipping I'll get ! " exclaims Wheezer proudly . At this point , Spud finds chicken feathers on Mr . Brown's farm and knows Nero's been striking again but blames it on Pete . So as Mr . Brown brings his gun , Wheezer , Stymie , and Dorothy , try to hide Pete in the hayloft before pelting Mr . Brown with eggs . A policeman stops Mr . Brown as he's readying to shoot Pete who gets sent to the pound since he has no license . A woman notices Weezer crying for his dog and pays the $2 . 00 to get Pete out . She turns out to be his aunt who explains her brother was too ill to care for Wheezer and Dorothy . With no love lost between the stepmother and the aunt , the aunt leaves her alone but not before literally kicking her butt ! As the car leaves , Weezer wishes Stymie was with him . He doesn't know it but his wish comes true when the bald-headed kid with the derby stows on the trunk tire as we fade out . . . With equal parts pathos and humor , Dogs Is Dogs is one of the most heart-wrenching and hilarious " Our Gang " shorts ever . The highlight is definitely Stymie's putting one over on Spud on the whole " Ham and Eggs talking " bit especially the quotes he gives them . Blanch Payson is certainly one of the meanest adults ever depicted in an " Our Gang " comedy and Spud himself makes later " Our Gang " - er Butch a pansy in comparison ! While Billy Gilbert usually goes for laughs , his Mr . Brown is appropriately cruel in trying to get rid of our favorite ring-around-one-eye dog Pete . And frequent adult " Our Gang " player Lyle Tayo makes the most of her scenes as the kindly aunt that rescues Wheezer , Pete , and Dorothy at the end . So in summation , I definitely recommend Dogs Is Dogs .
Lizards brings more intriguing stuff to " Heroes "	When we last left " Heroes " , Peter , who has amnesia , was being beaten by some toughs in Ireland . After getting knocked out , a woman who's associated with them looks at his bloody face and gets startled when the stains disappear in thin air . In California , Claire , after recovering her mom's ring from boiling water wants to know why she has to pass as " normal " when she feels constricted . Noah explains about people wanting to torture her if they're found out . In New York , Matt investigates Hiro's father's death and questions Ando about the symbol discovered on the picture of the father just before the murder . Hiro is also briefly mentioned as we go back to 17th century Japan where Hiro , after finding his hero out cold , takes his costume and becomes " Takezo Sensei " as he uses his teleporting powers to make his foes ' weapons vanish from one place to another . This all impresses the lady who was fighting them beforehand and she waits for his kiss . But Hiro disappears as pink blossom leaves fall all around her . In Hounduras , the twins , Alejandro and Maya , struggle to find a way to get to America as a healer fails to heal Maya and , later at night , an elderly female guide dies inadvertently under Maya's bloody eyes before Alajandro makes the stain disappear and the guide gets up cursing them as she leaves . Mohinder goes to Haiti to cure someone who has the same disease that killed his sister in 1974 . It's the guy who worked for Noah by erasing minds ! Next we see after Mohinder injects the needle , he's back to where his employer that we saw last week asks about him and all Mohinder remembers is the assignment he just got from him ! Back at school , Claire watches in fascination a film about lizards regenerating after losing an arm and asks questions about humans doing the same thing which arouses the curiosity of the boy who flew last week . She brushes him off . And then finds her car stolen ! Back in Japan , Hiro is confronted by Takezo about his stolen costume when the lady comes and thanks Takezo personally . Because of her , he agrees to fulfill his destiny but then gets shot by arrows that seem to kill him . But , suddenly , the blood seems to disappear . Back in New York , Matt questions Mrs . Petrelli about the murder of Hiro's father . She admits to once having an affair with him but refuses to answer any more . Reading her mind , Matt gets some info about revenge but is told by her reading his mind to back off ! As Matt goes to meet son Nathan , they hear a noise and find Nathan's mother in critical condition as her picture is found with the symbol on it . In Ireland , one of Peter's tormentors finds a box and with it , now knows the name of the amnesia-afflicted victim . He offers to give him the box if he does something for him and the woman who treated him . Mohinder calls Noah and tells him about the Haitian . As Noah hangs up , he sees that Haitian in front of him as they get reacquainted . Claire , at home , cuts her smallest toe and , 30 seconds later , grows one back just as that boy sees the scene through the window . Claire goes outside to confront him but he disappears leaving a book by Mohinder's father that he recommended to her earlier as " To Be Continued " appears on screen . . . Wow , a lot to mention as you can tell by my long synopsis . All of them pretty intriguing . Disappointed not to be seeing DL , Niki / Jessica , Micah , or Sylar like the promos seem to be promising but as the weeks go , I'm sure we will . Should really make for another interesting season . On that note , until next time . . .
In Trust Issues , Jamie suffers a tragedy on " Bionic Woman "	In this episode , Jamie and Antonio are assigned to protect a president of a country from an assassin despite his reputation for letting politically motivated killings occur from where he resides . Antonio , however , has a personal stake in his mission and leaves details out of Jamie's ears though she eventually figures everything out . Also , while Tom seems to get along with Jamie and her sister Becca , he also has a couple of fellow agents keep tabs on her . . . This was a very exciting episode with all the suspense of recent action movies like the Bourne series whenever Jaime is running to try to prevent some catastrophe about to happen . I found the tragedy occurring at the end touching and I found myself caring about him when it happened despite me making some not-so-complimentary comments about him before ( I'm sure anyone who've read my previous " Bionic Woman " episode reviews knows who I'm talking about ) . Some of the levity of the last two episodes are missing though it was amusing when that psychiatrist put that plant in her office in order to make Jamie feel at home . And it was nice to see Becca really wanting to make her big sister feel good about herself when she prepared dinner for her and Tom . With the ratings falling and the writers strike still in effect , I don't know how much time " Bionic Woman " has this season but I'm willing to watch till the end to see how further this reboot of the late ' 70s series develops so until next time . . .
Katee Sackhoff makes Sisterhood a very interesting episode of " Bionic Woman "	Well , this episode of " Bionic Woman " was a vast improvement over the first two and the big reason is because of Katee Sackhoff as the bad and complex first bionic woman Sarah Corvus . Her physically and line readings give this episode most of the life this series badly needs and makes Michelle Ryan as Jamie Sommers a bit more interesting as a result . The other story of Jamie babysitting a Canadian female teen because her father is with some weapons company was blah for me in contrast with the continuing sub-plot with Jamie's own teenage sister who I really deeply cared about after Sarah drugged her to blackmail Jamie into taking her someplace to cure her illness . If you've seen the episode , you know why Jamie can't help Sarah on such short notice . The next episode continues this storyline so I'll tell more about what happens there . . .
Pipe Dreams is another Harmon-Ising cartoon from M-G-M I would recommend	This is a Hugh Harmon-Rudolf Ising Happy Harmonies cartoon distributed by M-G-M . In this one , three monkeys representing " See No Evil-Hear No Evil-Speak No Evil " sing those words before each takes a turn smoking a pipe and seeing things like three singing cigars , a matchbox horse , a train that is connected by matchboxes , and some dancing wooden matches dressed like Mexican dancers-both male and female ! Beautiful animation and backgrounds throughout and while the smoking content here might make one give pause to show this to children , the hallucinatory result may make one want to not smoke at all if some of the images here bother them too much ! Pipe Dreams is recommended to any animation buff curious about these pre-Hanna-Barbera and Tex Avery M-G-M cartoons .
Glimpses of Java and Ceylon was another interesting James FitzPatrick Traveltalks short	In this James FitzPatrick Traveltalks short , we go to Java-where there's plenty of rice topple with lots of unusual ingredients and a " nightmare " dance with unique music of the time-and Ceylon , Sri Lanka now , where the men wear their hair long and do " feminine " stuff like sewing and cooking and water buffalo tell time by leaving work to go to bathe in the lake . Other stuff that were mentioned by narrator FitzPatrick I can't remember right now but trust me , there were many interesting sights that was captured in perfect color throughout the short . This was another of various films , clips , and opening titles that I found on the TCM site . Many of the shorts featured there are the FitzPatrick Traveltalks color films that were shown before the main feature in various theatres that were owned by M-G-M's parent company Loew's Incorporated . To anyone interested in these vintage series entries , I highly recommend Glimpses of Java and Ceylon .
Studio Visit is worth a look for Lena Horne's deleted bathtub number from Cabin in the Sky	This Pete Smith Specialties short , Studio Visit , is an extra on the DVD of Cabin in the Sky . In between Louis Zingone displaying his sleight-of-hand peanut shell game and a little girl named Helen Sue Goldy displaying her balancing act with her father while eating an apple , we get a deleted scene from aforementioned movie of Lena Horne , while washing herself in a bathtub filled with bubbles covering her naked body , singing " Ain't It the Truth " . While I can guess why it was edited out , I'm now wondering why it managed to get a showing in this short three years later and also why they didn't also show Louis Armstrong performing his own version , that is now lost , in the same film . So on that note , Studio Visit is an interesting curio for Horne fans . P . S . There's also a running gag of a crew member trying to put a kerosene lamp on a hanging wire that provides the short's finish .
Women in Hiding is a pretty compelling " Crime Does Not Pay " short subject	Before I begin , I'd like to note that the leading actress here , Marsha Hunt , was born in my hometown of Chicago , Ill . and is still alive at 90 , and that Barbara Bedford , who plays the head nurse , Miss Townsend , died in Jacksonville , Fla . , a city I once lived in , in 1981 . Ms . Hunt is Jane Taylor , a young woman whose unexpected pregnancy leads her to go to an illegal clinic whose medical staff makes its patients sign contracts that allows the mothers to give up all rights to the child , no matter what . When one of the mothers dies in childbirth , one of the staff attempts arson but Jane secretly alerts the cops in time . . . A very compelling caution to any expectant mothers or anyone in her family on the dangerous consequences of going to any back alley clinic to " care " for the baby . Seeing one of the mothers express joy on seeing her child for the first time after initially saying she doesn't want to look at it is very touchingly handled here and becomes heartbreaking when her reactions change for the worse when she finds out how the doctors sold her baby to a middle-aged married couple behind her back . I found this short on the DVD " Film Noir : Bringing Darkness to Light " which has four other " Crime Does Not Pay " short subjects inside . Worth a look for anyone who's curious about these vintage two-reelers .
Frewayphobia # 1 was a pretty entertaining and educational Goofy cartoon	Just watched on YouTube this Walt Disney educational cartoon starring Goofy . Or at least three of them , each given a Latin name representing what kind of car driver he is : Driverius Timidicus-the timid driver , Motoramus Figitus-the fidgety driver , and Negleterus Maximus-the neglectful driver . Each one demonstrates how disastrous their driving on the freeway is by doing several " don'ts " that get them into trouble with the last character providing the most laughs from me . The original voice of Goofy himself , Pinto Colvig , is allowed to be a little more insulting here since these Goofys are nothing like the more " aw shucks " version of the character like when Motoramus tells many of his other cars stuck in accidents to " Get a horse ! " Quite entertaining while providing a lesson on driving . So on that note , I highly recommend Freewayphobia # 1 ( a . k . a . The Art of Driving on the Super Highway ) .
Field and Scream is one of Tex Avery's last entertaining cartoons he made for M-G-M	Just watched this M-G-M / Tex Avery cartoon on Daily Motion as linked from the Cartoons , Model Sheets , and Stuff blog . This is a primer on fishing / hunting as represented by an everyday Joe named Ed Jones as the narrator tells of his trials in getting fish , duck , or deer . . . If you're familiar with Avery's sense of humor then you'll have no trouble imagining what to expect here though you might still be surprised by what happens ! By the time this cartoon was released , Avery had left M-G-M and went back to the Walter Lantz studio where he started as an animator . Field and Scream , while not great , is still highly entertaining for one of Avery's last shorts made for Leo the Lion . Highly recommend .
It's All in the Game is a fine latter-day episode of Columbo	It's All in the Game is one of the more fascinating of the latter-day Columbo movies for three reasons : 1 . Peter Falk wrote this episode . 2 . Faye Dunaway plays a character who flirts with the Leutenant in order to distract him from his suspicions . 3 . Columbo almost seems to fall for her . As another poster mentioned , I did see some kind of lesbian subtext in an early scene between Dunaway's character and that of Claudia Christian's in the latter's apartment before the big reveal at the end . Also appearing were Bill Macy as the building super and Shelley Morrison , years before playing Karen's maid in Will and Grace , as the murdered victim's maid who is amusing showing Falk how she cleans the refrigerator . So the Leutenant likes peanut butter and raisins . O-k-a-y ! Highly amusing and suspenseful and Ms . Dunaway deserved her Emmy . Definitely recommended for Columbo fans .
Pool Party was another funny episode of " Miss Guided "	With Mrs . Pool's ( Edie McClurg ) 40th anniversary as a teacher at the same high school coming up , Principal Huffy has picked Becky Freeley and Lisa Germain to plan a party for her since they were next on the alphabetical list . Problem is nobody likes her . In fact , the feeling is mutual . Add to that Bruce Terry and Terry O'Malley have been doing errands for her because of secrets she knows about each that neither wants anyone to find out . Things go so bad with the planning , however , that Becky and Lisa resolve to confront her with complaints . Just as Becky starts to say her peace , however , Lisa slinks away . It's just as well since what Becky says shocks Mrs . Pool so much that she dies seconds after Becky leaves while the students cheer her on . Despite this , the party goes on with Becky , Lisa , Terry , and Bruce saying what they didn't like about the just departed Mrs . Pool though there's some embarrassment when Bruce reveals he had sex with her . Oh , and during much of this , student Karey ( Charlyne Yi ) has been painting graffiti on cars because Becky's been telling her to take art to express herself . . . Written by creator Caroline Williams , " Pool Party " seems to take every characteristic of a mean teacher and put her in Mrs . Pool to the nth degree . Ms . McClurg seems to be so perfectly spot on as this bitchy woman that I didn't recognize her at first since I'm used to her portraying as something more demure and soft-hearted . And how funny to see Becky tell off like that before the unfortunate result . And seeing Bruce and Tim bond over their secrets and then Bruce's humiliation over telling about his relationship with the dead woman in front of the faculty was pretty hilarious ! Also loved what Karey wrote on Lisa's car with Becky laughing at the end . This was another entertaining episode of " Miss Guided " .
Fast Company is another worthy " Our Gang " comedy short	Fast Company is the sixteenth short in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series created by Hal Roach . Many of the boys here want to go swimming but Mickey has to make a delivery . On the way , he encounters a rich boy waiting at a station for his mom and as they get to talking they trade places since Mickey has never seen the inside of a hotel and the rich kid just wants to play . When the rich kid returns to the gang with the goat-pulling wagon , however , they resolve to go where Mickey is which is where the fun really begins . . . Plenty of very funny gags abound like Joe's heavyset parents arguing with the mother using a rolling pin to hit her husband that-when the target's head gets it-causes the appliance to jump up and down , Farina tries to drink some water from a hose that keeps squirting and unsquirting because of the other kid turning it off and on and when " she " finally gives up says to Ernie ( via inter-title ) " ' At ol ' water kaint make up its mind ! " , a hotel monkey using firecrackers to surprise many of the adult patrons , and the gang trying a pipe that later gives them a really unwelcome feeling . Long considered lost , I found Fast Company on YouTube with , I guess , the best prints that were available and with the wonderful LeRoy Shield score from the " Little Rascals " talkies added for sheer pleasure . Regular director Robert McGowan had suffered an injury when a camera platform collapsed just before this short began filming so Charley Chase ( under his real name Charles Parrott ) was hired in his stead though he couldn't finish it since he also had meetings with executives at Pathe , Roach's distributor at the time . So a year later , McGowan completed it and , with the help of Mrs . Roach , secured cameos for her children with Hal , Hal Jr . , 6 , and Margaret , 4 . When Mr . Roach saw them in the screening room , he was pleasantly surprised . So on that note , I highly recommend Fast Company .
Uptown Saturday Night was an enjoyable first teaming of Poitier and Cosby	In reviewing movies in chronological order that featured African-Americans for Black History Month , we're now at 1974 with Uptown Saturday Night . This was the first of three buddy comedies that paired Sidney Poitier with Bill Cosby . This was also Poitier's third directorial assignment after Buck and the Preacher and A Warm December . Instead of the perfect professional characters superstar Sidney had been playing for years , here he's just a working class man named Steve Jackson who's pals with Cosby's Wardell Franklin . As Steve's wife Sarah , Rosalind Cash has some nice , and partially racy , dialogue with Poitier but Ketty Lester seems wasted as Wardell's spouse Irma . With a script by Richard Wesley , Poitier shows some amusing touches though it does take a while for the story , about getting robbed as the two leads spend the night at an illegal gambling joint called Zenobia's before Steve finds out his winning lottery ticket was among the stolen items , to kick into gear . When it does you get treated to a hilarious supporting cast like Flip Wilson as the Reverend , Richard Pryor as Sharp Eye Washington , Roscoe Lee Browne as Congressman Lincoln ( dig the way he turns a frame of Nixon to that of Malcoln X and then puts on his African digs when he meets his " constituents " Steve and Wardell ) , Paula Kelly as Lincoln's wife Leggy Peggy who the boys previously met at Zenobia's , and dancer Harold Nicholas as Little Seymour Pettigrew . That last character has a hilarious encounter with Cosby and Poitier himself cuts loose with some jokes you didn't think would come out of him . Also loved many of the " fights " the Cos instigates . Then there's Calvin Lockhart as Silky Slim and Harry Belafonte as Geechie Dan Beauford . These are rival gangsters that Steve and Wardell seek out to help find the stolen goods . Belafonte looks like he's having the time of his life impersonating Marlon Brando's Godfather role though I found him fitfully amusing like when he threatened to " knock the black off " Poitier and Cosby . Still , Uptown Saturday Night was a mostly enjoyable comedy that I bought on DVD with A Piece of the Action on the disc's other side . Dig Cosby's beard !
The Party is a nearly excellent non-Panther collaboration from Blake Edwards and Peter Sellers	After years of enjoying their collaborations on the Pink Panther movies , I finally got to see Blake Edwards'-Peter Sellers ' only non-Panther film , The Party . Playing a just-blacklisted Indian actor accidentally invited to a Hollywood party , Sellers inadvertently causes one disaster after another as guests just tolerate his presence despite no one really knowing who he is or why he's there . It's not until much later that producer Gavin MacLeod even remembers him for ruining his picture in the movie's beginning scenes . By then , Sellers ' character gets to know MacLeod's latest discovery ( and potential conquest ) Claudine Longet . Their scenes are some of the sweetest in this mostly very funny movie . And there's plenty very humorous stuff concerning mishaps caused not only by Sellers but also by a drunken waiter played to great hilarity by Steve Franken . It threatens to lose steam in the middle part but comes to a wonderful crescendo at the end . By all means , if you're a great fan of both Edwards and Sellers , don't pass this one by ! P . S . Having previously only known Ms . Longet from a shooting scandal of hers 30 years ago that was parodied on an SNL sketch the first season , I'm now glad to finally see her on screen as she was years before that unfortunate incident and hear her wonderful singing voice and French accent .
Ratatouille is another highly enjoyable Disney / Pixar animated feature	Ratatouille is another highly enjoyable Pixar / Disney animated feature film that should do very well at the box office in its opening weekend . Having just said that , I must admit that the constant laughs I was expecting mainly seemed to come in fits and starts . Despite that , however , I found the story very enjoyable especially near the end when All is revealed . I found myself crying when that came so this movie definitely touched me on some level . Now that I think about it , I can't think of anything I would cut out or shorten so if the humor doesn't always flow smoothly , when the laughs come from me or the audience I feel they are deserved for the most part . Loved the scenes involving the old lady discovering the rats in her house and her attempts to shoot them all . Loved the constant weird movements involving the garbage - boy - turned - chef - with - a - rat - in - him that made the other staff look at him . And definitely loved the relationship between that garbage boy and the rat Remy and the way they cooperated together . Not to mention Remy's constant speaking to an image of his idol , Gusteau . So while not the funniest Pixar feature ( The first Toy Story probably deserves that distinction ) , Ratatouille is certainly one of the most touching . So on that note , I definitely recommended it .
One Million B . C . , while old-fashioned , can still entertain today	Just watched this classic Hal Roach production on the TCM site . It's the story of a man and woman and how they get their previously enemy tribes together . Actually , what I just said made the movie sound simplistic which , despite the prehistoric setting , it's not . In fact , I was surprisingly enthralled by the story , the acting of Victor Mature and Carole Landis ( though Ms . Landis is also good eye candy ) , the fights of the " dinosaurs " ( actually lizards , alligators , and armadillos ) , and the exciting special effects concerning the volcano eruption . Roy Seawright deserves mega-kudos for that last sequence and possibly for Mature's fight with what looked like a model dinosaur worthy of Willis O'Brien . Also loved the music score that was played throughout . That score might have broken whatever monotony the slower scenes may have had . So with all that said , I'm recommending One Million B . C . for anyone interested in these old-fashioned effects movies .
This DVD documentary brought a lot of curiosity on my part of the movie clips shown	This DVD compilation of various ' 40s-'50s movie clips that explore dark themes culled from M-G-M , RKO , and Warner Bros . ( since Warners and / or Turner own the films they're from ) explores , from multiple viewpoints , the impact Film Noir has had on future filmmakers and the world at large . Among the people interviewed : the departed like Edward Dmytryk , Jane Greer , and Sydney Pollack ( as of last week ) . Also Brian Hegeland , James Ellroy , Paul Schrader , and Frank Miller among others . They talk about music , the men , and , of course , the fem fatale . And they talk about films outside of the library that have no clips shown ( such as Paramount's Double Indemnity ) . Many of them are clips of movies I've yet to see so there's a lot of curiosity on my part to check them out . Of course , that may take a while so it may be a long time before I comment here on them . Stay tuned . . .
Mickey's Trailer is another entertaining Walt Disney / Mickey Mouse cartoon	Just watched this Walt Disney / Mickey Mouse cartoon on YouTube as linked from the Federator blog . In this one , Mickey-along with Goofy and Donald Duck-inhabit a trailer which can literally become a house in a beautiful setting as evidenced by the beginning scene when it's revealed to actually occupy a city dump ! As the trailer moves , the Mouse gets corn and milk from outside ( and without permission , I must say ! ) , while sleepy Donald has his room transform from a bedroom to a bathroom to a table as he , Mickey , and Goofy-who leaves his attached moving car going to the table-eat to their heart's content . Then the Goof realizes no one's driving . . . This mostly amusing Disney animated short takes its own sweet time in presenting the various gags and thrills that makes this so entertaining and the characters so lovable in how they react . Mickey's Trailer is well worth seeing for animation buffs of Walt Disney .
Popeye Meets William Tell is an amusing cartoon directed by Shamus Culhane	Popeye Meets William Tell is one of several animated shorts in which our favorite sailor meets with a classic literary or folktale character . In this one , Popeye pretends to be Tell's son after the king demands to see William's arrow-through-apple trick . There's some chuckle-inducing banter about who should hit whom . There's also a funny gag involving a photo of Groucho Marx with his trademark " moving eyebrows " and some choice " anti-smoking " punchlines that might amuse some PC watchers though some of the results may also make them cringe . Nonetheless , I enjoyed this one Popeye cartoon that James " Shamus " Culhane directed and recommend it to any of his fans .
Ain't She Sweet is an amusing Max Fleischer Screen Song cartoon from the talkie era	I discovered this rare Max Fleischer Screen Song cartoon on Thad's Animation Blog . It basically takes place in a barn dance inhabited by cats . Many funny gags provided by director Dave Fleischer dominate most of this short like the one where one of the felines puts some punch in a cup and then drinks the rest of the bowl himself ! Or another one where a cat uses his tail to grab some food off a plate and then gets it cut off ! Then singer Lilian Roth , in live action , appears on screen and sings the title song in her bouncy and bubbly manner that makes her the living embodiment of the tune . Then there's a bizarre animated ending that has to be seen to be believed . Oh , and this one has the original Paramount opening and closing credits . So on that note , I recommended you go to Thad's and watch this short .
Tex Avery's The Isle of Pingo Pongo is another of the " Censored 11 "	This is another of the " Censored 11 " Warner Bros . cartoons that will probably never be seen on commercial television again . It starts harmless enough with various spot gags about the Sandwich Island ( shaped like a . . . well , you know ) , as well as the Thousand Island ( with a giant bottle of the salad dressing on board ) . There's also various birds represented such as a Mockingbird ( who mocks everything the announcer says ) . Then there are various scenes with the natives who are portrayed here in animated form as black with white lips . As demeaning as these stereotypes are , they do provide some entertaining musical moments singing " Sweet Georgia Brown " and " She'll Be Comin ' Round the Mountain " , the last number in a Country-Western vibe . Then there's the running gag of Egghead ( precursor of Elmer Fudd ) asking the off-screen announcer , " Now , boss ? " with the boss saying , " Not yet . " When that boss finally gives his approval at the end , Egghead provides the short's topper . Since this was directed by Tex Avery , I do recommend The Isle of Pingo Pongo . Just be aware of the political incorrectness that pervades the last few minutes . . .
Shrek the Halls may become a holiday classic for a new generation	This Shrek the Halls holiday special can be both frantic and funny and enjoyable and maybe a little exasperating all at the same time and will probably be another classic to be enjoyed for years to come for adults and children and their families in subsequent Decembers to come . Eddie Murphy's Donkey still has that endearingly irritating quality that makes him often the funniest character in this franchise . Mike Myers's Shrek still has that exasperated appeal we can identify with when Donkey almost goes too far in his constant cheeriness . Cameron Diaz ' Fiona makes a nice balance for Shrek when he needs cheering up . Antonio Banderas ' Puss in Boots is still at his suave and cute best . And the Gingerbread Man's frightening reaction to Santa Claus is a great touch of a twist in this wonderful parody of various animated Christmas specials over the years ! So if you thought there weren't any more original holiday shows to be made , Shrek the Halls may slightly change your mind about that .
The Texas Chain Saw Massacre was one really effective horror movie	Well , after 27 years of curiosity of this controversial cult classic horror movie , I finally saw The Texas Chain Saw Massacre on YouTube which uploaded it a couple of weeks ago . When I first read about this in the Baton Rouge Morning Advocate in 1981 when the movie was re-released , the paper's critic at the time , David Foil , called it " awful " and gave a zero rating . I also read in Danny Peary's " Cult Movies " book that , compared to Wes Craven's Last House on the Left ( which I have yet to see ) which to him encouraged the audience to cheer for the killings , we're shocked at them here . No kidding ! I especially felt sorry for the wheelchair-impaired Franklin especially when his sister Sally treated him badly before his fate . Sally though , as played by Marilyn Burns , does get the sympathy since she suffers the most especially when director Tobe Hooper cuts to extreme close-up on each of her eyes as she screams constantly dreading what Leatherface and his family are going to do to her . Not sure if I want to say this is a great horror movie but it's certainly one of the most effective ever . In fact , I'm not sure if I could have handled this film when I first read about it at age 13 . . . P . S . Being a Louisiana resident , I'd like to acknowledge that the narrator was New Orleans native John Larroquette .
Ripples is another cool experimental Jim Henson short	This experimental short by Muppet creator Jim Henson lasted only about a minute . In this one , an architect ( Jon Stone ) is throwing little things in his cup in his office which he imagines doing to a pond in a forest outside then dreams during this " ripple " effect of various events that happened throughout history interspersed with still images of many events that are also cultural in nature before we're back in his office with his cup . The end . With suitably eerie sound and music by Raymond Scott , Ripples is another innovative Henson film short that revealed his talent for the unusual that served him later on " Seseme Street " during that show's live-action film segments . I saw this on YouTube where I also watched his Oscar-nominated previous short , Time Piece , that is also highly recommended .
Bosko's Easter Eggs is a treat for anyone that are MGM cartoon buffs	Having just seen Bosko and Bruno ( with the monkey-looking version of the character ) and now Bosko's Easter Eggs ( with the more realistic-looking black boy character ) , I noticed a couple of contrasts : besides the designs , the big difference between monkey-Bosko and real black boy-Bosko is that monkey-Bosko is actually an adult while black boy one is , well , a kid . Also , in Bosko and Bruno , Bruno chases chickens while here , the dog is scared of her because he helped Bosko steal her eggs . The reason this is is because Bruno sorta ruined the ones Bosko was originally carrying in his basket . And the one who automatically figures it out without being told is Honey , here also different from her previous characterization as an adult to that of a little girl . Not much for laughs but entertaining nonetheless with Bosko's rhymes and the way the chicken constantly chases them . Well worth seeing for anyone interested in MGM cartoons made before Tom and Jerry and Tex Avery catapulted them to everlasting fame .
The Music Lover is one of the most interesting Melies shorts	This is one of Melies ' most unusual shorts in which he portrays a music teacher who is trying to teach his students some harmony by having various heads of his representing notes on a large series of lines above him . I've always wondered how those various heads keep popping up from his body like that . In the documentary film , The Magic of Melies , I found out Georges stops film in camera , covers his head with a black sheet to match the background , then starts film again . Of course , any technical problems are fixed in editing . The way short ends with all those musical head-notes flying around is one of the most awesome sights I've seen in silent movies . By all means , seek The Music Lover out !
Brewster McCloud is one of Altman's underrated classics	Having read many tributes to the late Robert Altman , I was fascinated by one that mentioned Brewster McCloud was on YouTube . So I clicked the movie there and marveled at seeing Rene Auberjonois ( whom I loved in the TV series " Benson " ) talking about birds and humans and then Margeret Hamilton singing the National Anthem as the credits roll but stopping to correct the key before she sings again with the credits starting again ! Bud Cort is mesmerizing in the title role and Sally Kellerman is luminous as his guardian . Newcomer Shelley Duvall is appealing as Cort's sometime girlfriend but I'm really fascinated by Jennifer Salt's performance as a health store worker who delivers goods to Cort's place in the Astrodome and gets off just thinking of him while he does pull-ups in his underwear ! Perhaps the funniest and sexiest performance in the movie . She and Auberjonois are the best parts in the film . So by all means , if you love Altman , watch Brewster McCloud and be stunned by the tragicomic ending !
Get bewitched by Veronica Lake in I Married a Witch	Ten years after taping this from AMC and about thirty after first reading about this in the East Baton Rouge Parish Library film listings ( when they used to show movies on Saturday afternoons or weeknights ) , I finally watched Rene Clair's adaptation of Thorne Smith's I Married a Witch starring Fredric March and Veronica Lake . What a wonderful fantasy-comedy-romance concerning the two leads and surrounded by such hilarious supporting performances of Robert Benchley , Cecil Kellaway , a young Susan Hayward , and that lady who kept singing " I Love You Truly " ( Helen St . Rayner ) ! Witty lines , awesome visual effects , and perfect timing combine to make this one of the most pleasant surprises from the Golden Age of Movies when audiences wanted escapism from the war that was raging at the time . It was perhaps because of this movie-and possibly Smith's original source novel-that helped make the classic TV series " Betwitched " - with Elizabeth Montgomery as another stunning blond witch you'd love to go home to-possible . Certainly , Ms . Lake is at her most beautiful here and-despite what I've read about her and Mr . March's dislike off-screen-has great chemistry with her co-star . Most hilarious scenes involve Mr . Kellaway and his drunken forgetfulness concerning his spells ! For anyone who doesn't mind a classic fantasy filmed in black-and-white , I Married a Witch should be right up your alley !
By Leaps and Hounds was a pretty hilarious Famous Studios cartoon	Just saw on Thad Blog linked to Daily Motion this Famous Studios cartoon ( though this version had the Harveytoons banner ) written by Irv Spector whose son now has a blog dedicated to his father . It concerns a new boy hound named Herbert who's a pupil at a fox hunt academy . His teacher gives him a horn to signal for him and the other students to hunt for a fox . But since Herbert hasn't seen one before , the actual fox at first tricks him and the others into a cave . . . That's all I'll say about the synopsis except for when they find the " fox " , he throws them out and says , " Can't a bloke hibernate in PEACE ! " LOL ! Plenty of funny gags and lines abound . Liked hearing the teacher say " Silly Arse ! " and seeing the result of the " one lump or two " question that I used to think was exclusive to Bugs Bunny cartoons . So on that note , I highly recommend By Leaps and Hounds .
Modern Mexico City is a fascinating look at a wondrous place from James FitzPatrick	This is actually a review of producer / director / narrator James A . FitzPatrick's travelogue short Modern Mexico City that I saw on the TCM site but for some reason , IMDb doesn't have an entry for it ( which instead led to this title as one of the links and the only one associated with FitzPatrick ) . There are no night scenes here , just daytime ones of the wonderful city that resides south of the border of our country . Among the sites there is a statue of George Washington we gave to them on the honor of Mexico's 100th year of independence . There's also a mariachi band and some bullfighting ( nothing violent , however ) and some views of various buildings and apartments . And the studio , M-G-M , plugs itself there since they have space at the city . All done to beautiful music and wondrous Technicolor . Modern Mexico City is just one of several shorts that Mr . FitzPatrick made during much of his lifetime that showcased the splendor of the various places he traveled . It is highly recommend .
Wild and Woozy West is another funny Columbia cartoon	Wild and Woozy West is another of the unsung cartoons from the Columbia studio of the ' 40s . It concerns the capture of the western wolf villain Angel Face , wanted dead or alive ( perferrably dead ) . Among his list of crimes is " using naughty words " . The setting is Pivot Point , pop . 502 . After Angel arrives , however , that would change to 112 . . . I'll just stop right there and mention there are plenty of other visual gags that I don't think I've seen in other cartoons of the period like when the wolf leaves the sheriff's office the wooden door falls down , nails , wood , and all . When the sheriff escapes being locked in his safe and comes outside to find the wolf , the destroyed door comes back together the reverse way it fell apart ! So on that note , anyone seeking these obscure Columbia cartoons can find many of them on YouTube . And Wild and Woozy West is worth seeking out if you do !
How to Make an American Quilt provides some interesting lessons on life	Filled with veterans , ( Ellen Burstyn , Anne Bancroft , Jean Simmons ) recognizable character actors , ( Rip Torn , Holland Taylor , Esther Rolle , Alfre Woodard ) , hot young adult stars ( Winona Ryder , Dermot Mulroney , Samantha Mathis ) , some up-and-comers ( Jared Leto , Claire Danes , Johnathon Schaech ) , and a poet ( Maya Angelou ) , How to Make an American Quilt is an inspiring movie about a young college student staying during the summer at her aunt's house with many of that aunt's friends sewing a quilt while sharing memories of their young lives that provide material for the young woman's college paper . Based on a novel , this film provides detailed flashbacks of some of those lives and less so on others but they mostly provide some impetus for the aspiring author's decisions as she makes up her mind of what future she decides on . As a result of the constant flashbacks , some of what happens may be confusing but most gets explained at the end . So on that note , I recommend How to Make an American Quilt .
Snow Foolin ' has some amusing gags before the song " Jingle Bells " is playing	Both previous commenters have gotten certain animals mixed up : It's a rabbit who declares the start of winter just before snow falls on him and a hen who tells us to follow the bouncing " hen egg " . Now that I cleared that up , I thought this was a highly amusing , if not hilarious , cartoon with wonderful gags that lead to the song before the last gag afterwards . Loved the ostrich doing " eight the hard way " , and the skunk saying , " Nauseating , isn't it ! " ( What's he responding to ? Watch the cartoon ! ) And then there's a kangaroo and her son falling down from the sky ( don't worry , the son is all right ! ) . When " Jingle Bells " is playing with the bouncing egg jumping on the lyrics , you also see the second and third verse which I don't think I've ever heard anyone else singing whenever I listen to Christmas songs on the radio . On that note , Snow Foolin ' is worth seeing for anyone who loves holiday cartoons .
Shemp Howard in Society Mugs was very funny to me	While I saw lots of Three Stooges comedies on afternoon television in the late ' 70s , I admit I don't remember Termites of 1938 . So on discovering Society Mugs on YouTube , I found myself laughing at the antics of Shemp Howard and Tom Kennedy as exterminators mistaken for escorts from college . They turn a society party upside down with their unorthodox manners concerning dining and music . That plus lots or rats , some near-close calls with drills , some Stooge foils like Christine McIntyre and Vernon Dent , and a nice appearance by Charles Williams from It's a Wonderful Life makes this a very hilarious short for me . A look at Shemp outside of brothers Moe and Curly and Larry Fine . Society Mugs comes highly recommended .
One Man's Journey is a rare gem recently rediscovered	Just discovered on Mark Evanier's blog that Turner Classic Movies-on their blog-are running a feature every month . One Man's Journey is for June . This just-rediscovered RKO release from 1933 stars Lionel Barrymore as Dr . Eli Watt , a widowed man with 6-year old son Jimmy ( Buster Phelps ) coming back to his old country roots . Since many of the townspeople are nearly poor , Dr . Watt accepts payment in potatoes or other foods . That's what the husband of his first patient offers to him . This husband-a McGinnis ( David Landau ) - gets some good news and bad news . Good : He has a healthy baby girl . Bad : The mother died giving birth . McGinnis wants no part of his girl's life and threatens to kill Eli . For four years , Eli helps raise the girl with Jimmy , a dog , and their housekeeper Sarah ( May Robson ) . Then McGinnis , having rehabilitated himself , wants her back . We then flash-forward about 15 or so years with that daughter Letty ( Dorothy Jordan ) grown up and helping Dr . Watt care for several children with smallpox . Son Jimmy ( now played by Joel McCrea ) is becoming a doctor himself . I'll stop here and mention some other players : James Bush as Bill Radford-Letty's eventual husband , Frances Dee as Joan Stockton-Jimmy's fiancée ( and later McCrea's real-life wife ) , Dorothy Gray as Letty's daughter who has a heart-tugging scene with Barrymore when he's carrying her , and Samuel S . Hinds ( or Sam Hinds as he's credited here ) as Dr . Roger Babcock who pays Eli a very high compliment at the end that makes a marked contrast to me when I remember their later roles on It's a Wonderful Life as-respectively-Peter Bailey and Henry F . Potter-fighting over foreclosures in front of Bailey's son George . All of them give wonderful performances with Mr . Lionel Barrymore at his most heartwarming throughout . There's also some stirring yet underplayed musical scoring by Max Steiner . In summation , One Man's Journey is one of those " they - don't - make - them - like - they - used - to " pictures that makes you wish they still did !
The Return of the Pink Panther is a return to form for the Sellers-Edwards collaboration	With both their careers in somewhat decline , director Blake Edwards and actor Peter Sellers decided to team up again for another Pink Panther movie despite their love / hate relationship off screen . Also returning were Herbert Lom ( now Chief Inspector Dreyfus ) , Andre Maranne ( Francois ) , Burt Kwouk ( Cato ) , and Graham Stark in a different role as snitch Pepi . And Frank Waldman , who previously co-wrote with brother Tom the non-Sellers-Edwards movie Inspector Clouseau , was Edwards ' writing partner for this and the next series entry . And once again , Henry Mancini provides the score which returns the " Pink Panther " theme to the animated opening credits . Joining them were Christopher Plummer as Sir Charles Litton ( replacing David Niven ) and Catherine Schell as Lady Claudine Litton . With an 11-year gap between A Shot in the Dark and this , both Edwards and Sellers seemed to only improve in their collaboration of mining their talents in getting the surefire gags milked for all they're worth . And Lom , especially , is a hoot as the superior of Clouseau who gets more mentally mad every time he fails to kill him . While admittedly , Ms . Schell is a little distracting whenever she noticeably laughs at Sellers ' antics , she's also at her most charming during these scenes and besides , her beautiful face makes those scenes worth it . And the way Cato surprises Clouseau are quite hilarious especially when Edwards uses slow motion . If anything slows the film down , it's the Charles Litton sequences which are the more dramatic parts of the picture . Still , even those scenes provide some humor whenever Stark as Pepi has his fingers constantly hurt by either Charles or someone else . And for the first time , The Pink Panther and The Inspector are teamed in the beginning animated credit sequence to humorous effect with Pink imitating some movie stars while The Inspector chases him . That sequence , by the way , is by Richard Williams Studio with help from Chuck Jones ' animator Ken Harris . So on that note , I highly recommend The Return of the Pink Panther . P . S . Monty Python supporting player Carol Cleveland has a cameo as a Swimming Pool Diver who dives as Clouseau falls backwards into the pool . Next up , The Pink Panther Strikes Again . . .
Second episode of " Back to You " is even better that the first	At the end of the pilot episode of " Back to You " , we found out that the 10-year-old daughter ( who was originally said to be 8 ) of Kelly Carr , Gracie ( Laura Marano ) , was also Chuck Darling's . Kelly didn't want him to know because she doesn't think he'd be responsible enough . On the second day , the news director gives Chuck a goldfish bowl as a present . Chuck manages to kill fish by overfeeding him . He keeps making the news director get him new goldfish after the previous one dies accidentally to keep Kelly from knowing so she'll think him capable of caring for their daughter . Meanwhile , Marsh is trying to figure out how a magician performed a certain trick he saw recently . Montana , a former magician's assistant , eventually reveals after much begging from Marsh . And Gary reluctantly agrees to get tazered on live TV after a previous incident involving a Llama's ear . . . This follow-up after the pilot gets excellent comic mileage out of ways various goldfish die and the attempts of keep Kelly from finding out . Great support from Fred Willard and , once again , Ty Burr , especially the scenes after he gets tazered . Hope the ratings improved from the previous week's !
See Star Spangled Girl and laugh your head off !	I watched this movie on DVD after seeing a Living In TV Land on tape that featured Davy Jones knowing that his song , " Girl " , would be in this movie after reading the other comments on this film . ( Personal note : I saw Jones on stage at the Florida Theatre in Jacksonville , FL , where he performed this song in The Real Live Brady Bunch which enacted the episode that had Marcia trying to get him to her prom . ) Based on a Neil Simon play adapted by Arnold Margolin and Jim Parker , Star Spangled Girl comes through fast and furious with the wisecracks that makes us forgive the initial annoyingness of the lead characters played by Sandy Duncan , Tony Roberts , and especially Todd Susman in a role completely different from Officer Shifflet on Newhart . Jerry Paris ' direction times everything with a sledgehammer that hits more than misses occasionally slowing down so we can take a breath . If you're a fan of all of the above players as well as composer Charles Fox , what are you waiting for ? By all means , seek this one out ! By the way , Susman would later be the voice of the Greyhound dog on TV and radio . In case anyone didn't notice , Duncan rides Greyhound buses in the movie .
Smile , Darn Ya , Smile ! is another Foxy Merrie Melodies cartoon	Smile , Darn Ya , Smile ! is a Merrie Melodies cartoon starring Foxy from Hugh Harmon-Rudolf Ising Productions in association with Leon Schlesinger and distributed by Warner Bros . In this one , Foxy is a train conductor who needs passengers . A lady hippo comes on board but being heavy makes the train lean over . Foxy solves this by getting a pin and literally deflating her to small size ! Offended , she backwards insults him and goes on her way . Foxy later picks his girlfriend up as they sing the theme song ( I must tell you here that except for the bushy tails and ears , they both resemble Mickey and Minnie Mouse . No surprise here since Harmon and Ising once worked for Walt Disney ) . They later encounter some friendly hobos who also sing the title song and a stubborn cow who won't move from the tracks . If you want to know what happens after that watch the animated short on YouTube . Certainly worth a look for any animation fan of Warner Bros .
The Fox and the Grapes is hilarious Frank Tashlin cartoon	Frank Tashlin's The Fox and the Grapes was the first of several Fox and Crow cartoons produced by Columbia Pictures . In this initial effort , the Fox is planning a picnic in the forest . The Crow , wanting the food for himself , posts signs to the perfect place . As the Fox prepares to eat , the crow steals some hot dogs and mustard that the Fox witnesses . He puts a match on the crow's foot and lights it making the crow go to his home to cool it off in water . Crow reads " Elsop's Fables " and finds out that " Foxes are suckers for grapes ( looks further down page ) . . . Especially in glorious Technicolor " ( Technicolor is spelled in various colors ) . I'll stop there and mention that some well-timed blackout gags concerning the Fox's attempts to get those grapes the Crow hangs from up high his tree are hilarious and it's not surprising to know that Chuck Jones ' revealed this short as the inspiration for his Road Runner series . Tashlin later made his mark on many classic live-action comedies like The Girl Can't Help It and many Jerry Lewis entries . Well worth seeing for animation buffs .
Forbidden Passage is another " Crime Does Not Pay " short entry and is compellingly directed by Fred Zinnemann	This is another in the " Crime Does Not Pay " series of M-G-M shorts that I found on the DVD " Film Noir : Bringing Darkness to Light " . Forbidden Passage got an Oscar nomination ( 1941 ) and was directed by Fred Zinnemann , who would eventually win two of those . This one is about foreigners sneaking into our country illegally because of the constant delays when trying so legitimately , resulting in some of them winding up dead in sacks at the bottom of the ocean . That's what happens to one Otto Kestler wanting to see his wife and child after going through a couple of other countries . Among the players are Bill Edmonds-best known to me as Mr . Martini in It's a Wonderful Life-as one of the immigrants who brings his little girl along and a pre - " Leave It to Beaver " Hugh Beaumont who plays a U . S . customs agent speaking in a slightly stereotypical Swedish accent in disguising himself as a fellow immigrant . Nicely played drama throughout and Zinnemann provides some of his talents that made him such a world-renowned filmmaker .
Elvis : The Tribute is my final comment on the loss of The King , 30 years ago	Elvis : The Tribute is my final comment for this , the 30th anniversary of when we lost the King forever . John Stamos hosted this all-star concert and took us through Graceland , the house bought by Presley in 1957 . Among the artists paying great tribute were : Michael Bolton ( " Jailhouse Rock " ) , Melissa Etheridge ( " Burning Love " ) , U2 ( " Can't Help Falling in Love " ) , Tony Bennett ( " Love Me Tender " ) , Carl Perkins ( " Blue Suede Shoes " which he wrote and originally performed ) , Tanya Tucker ( " Teddy Bear " ) , and many others . In addition , we have an extra scene from the ' 68 comeback special of Elvis performing " One Night with You " and various clips of Presley performing his hit songs individually spliced together . Two of the weirdest scenes here were of Jim Belushi and Quentin Tarantino performing " Viva Las Vegas " on location video and seeing Priscilla Presley , her and Elvis ' daughter Lisa Marie , and that daughter's then-husband Michael Jackson in the audience . Boy , a lot has changed since then with M . J . getting more weirder than the King did near the end of his life ! In closing , I'd like to quote Groucho Marx , who died three days after Presley , in a clip included in the special , his reaction to a large female contestant on his game show , " You Bet Your Life " , who was an Elvis fanatic who said she got a lock of his hair : " A lock of his hair ? You want cream cheese with that ? "
Cilly Goose is another pretty enjoyable Famous Studios cartoon	This was one of those rare Famous Studios cartoon shorts that I just discovered on Thad's Animation Blog which linked this from YouTube . The title character had just laid an egg for the first time but finds her other farmland animal friends unimpressed since they have had plenty of children before her . After reading about how valuable a golden egg is , Cilly paints hers that color and gets so much attention , she gets booked at the Madison Square Garden to lay several in person ! As in many Famous cartoons in the ' 40s , the animation is quite good and the music matches them perfectly . Nice use of pantomime in most sequences with an ending you may or not predict if you're familiar with many cartoons . Well worth seeking out .
Big Top Bunny is a pretty entertaining Robert McKimson Bugs Bunny	When the circus hires Bugs Bunny as an attraction , Bruno-an Eastern European bear , gets jealous and tries to sabotage him . He succeeds the first time but the rabbit catches on . The gag where Bruno ends up in the band's kettle drum isn't funny but everything else is . I especially liked the one when Bugs , after being given a handle with bear hands by Bruno on his trapeze , uses that handle and " peddles " his way back to the bear's starting base . Robert McKimson didn't make the greatest Warner Bros . cartoons compared to Chuck Jones , Friz Freling , Bob Clampett , Tex Avery , or Frank Tashlin but because of all that talent that surrounded him , he could still make good animated shorts that can be entertaining in themselves . Big Top Bunny is one of them .
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler make a good team in Baby Mama	In a nutshell : real-life friends from SNL-Tina Fey and Amy Poehler-play an odd couple of sorts with Fey playing a businesswoman trying to have a baby and Poehler becoming a surrogate . No surprise concerning their chemistry and they're surrounded by a who's who of capable supporting players : Sigourney Weaver , Maura Tierney , Holland Taylor , Dax Shepard , Greg Kinnear , and Steve Martin as Fey's boss who likes to reward her with five minutes of staring at his face . Also look for former and current SNLers Fred Armisen , Will Forte , and Siobhan Fallon . Alternately hilarious and touching , Baby Mama should please many fans of the two leads and most of the above . So with that , I highly recommend it ! Oh , and congrats to Ms . Poehler and hubby Will Arnett on their upcoming blessed event !
Subway Hero is a treat of an episode of " 30 Rock " with Tim Conway and the return of Dean Winters as Dennis	As Liz enters his office , Jack has two requests for her : to attend John McCain's fund-raiser so it won't be a " massive sausage-fest " ( she refuses ) and to book the " Subway Hero " on TGS , so called because he saved the life of someone about to be hit by a train . As Jack turns on the TV , Liz is stunned since the man Mayor Bloomberg is giving the medal to is her ex-boyfriend , Dennis Duffy , who embarrasses himself on live television by saying " Baba booey ! " Still , he seems to get along with the writing staff and Liz herself seems to enjoy him again . Only Jenna thinks Liz can do better . Meanwhile , old-time TV star Bucky Bright ( Tim Conway ) drops in as a Republican star for the fund-raiser . Jack turns him away but Kenneth decides to talk to Bright about the good old days . Turns out many of them were pretty bizarre such as when men had a spot in their suits where they stored " opium and switchblades " ! Kenneth seems flabbergasted until he recounts some of his errands for Tracy and then sees Bucky in a new light . Tracy , after being electrocuted after using a screwdriver to fix a repeat on the word " Nixon " on a CD of " We Didn't Start the Fire " , dreams he's in heaven with the late president ( Alec Baldwin ) and Sammy Davis , Jr . ( Keith Powell , who's usually Twofer ) . As a result , he agrees to be the black Republican in a TV spot . After one in which he says Dr . King had a dream to install a wall to " keep Mexicans back " , he tells Jack blacks always vote Democratic , no matter what . So his next spot simply tells his race to not vote . It's paid for by the " Commitee to Re-invade Vietnam " . After hearing enough of Dennis ' dumb remarks , Liz turns down his proposal in front of a crowd who turn on him after he says " I can have my pick of any woman , not just the fatties and butter-faces " . Then when she sees him back at the subway where he did his good deed and is now depressed , because of TGS dropping him after his public faux pas , Liz tries to assure him his luck will come . She calls him a loser again , however , after he tries to push her onto the tracks-not realizing the train was on the other side-in order to save her and she runs away with Dennis saying , " You'll be back ! " . . . Not as funny as the previous episode but funny enough with the subversively funny lines of Tim Conway ( especially about Conan O'Brien ) and of the welcome return of Dean Winters as Dennis . And I loved Tracy's dance to Billy Joel's song about American history from the ' 50s to the late ' 80s ! So this was another worthy episode of " 30 Rock " for this second season .
Succession is another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock "	Since he doesn't believe in nepotism for his business handlings , network chairman Don Guiess picks Jack Donaghy over soon-to-be-son-in-law Devon Banks as his successor . Since it won't be announced publicly for awhile , Jack only tells Liz and appoints her as his successor . Liz initially declines until she sees the salary . Meanwhile , Tracy is despondent because he found out his son didn't take him on " Take Your Dad to School " day . In fact , when he arrived returning his flute , he made a fool of his son when he took off his shirt and danced . So he resolves to change the world by creating a porno video game . That makes Frank jealous since he tried to do that for years while Tracy does it in one day . Back on Jack's front , Devon arrives and tries to one-up him for Guiess ' favor . While on an elevator with Liz , he finds out from her some juicy secrets he can't wait to reveal to his future-father-in-law but Liz French kisses him in front of the camera inside that she threatens to show Don . At the later announcement party , Liz , Don , and Jack share some corporate humor while Devon looks forlorn knowing Jack is getting the job since Guiess told him . Just as him and Jack calmly reminisce " good times " , Liz discovers Don in a diabetic coma . Jack calls Dr . Leo Spaceman who confuses 411 with 911 and can't find Guiess ' heart . While Liz backs Jack on knowing who Don picked to take his place , Devon denies it . It's Devon who convinces the board to pick Don's mentally mute daughter to succeed him with him as consultant . As he's telling Jack this , Devon throws him out . . . This was another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock " with welcome returns of Rip Torn , Will Arnett , and , especially , Chris Parnell as Spaceman . Loved hearing Jack mention Clay Aiken in " Spamalot " as the reason Devon returned in his presence with Devon adding he'll see him every day until the show closes or Clay leaves . And how about seeing Leo's entrance carrying a cape ! With two more episodes left this season , I can hardly wait for " 30 Rock " again next week . . .
Sandwich Day is another very funny episode of " 30 Rock "	In a nutshell : Jack has been reduced to talking to the comatose Geiss and working on the 12th floor , Liz finds out from Jenna and Pete about a surprise phone call from Floyd who's flight back to Cleveland has been delayed , this being Sandwich Day-Tracy , Frank , and Lutz take the one the absent Liz left on her desk and , after Liz threatens to give them all chins , go to the teamsters ' office ( led by Brian Dennehy ) and get challenged to a drinking contest-with Jenna in tow-to get this unique one with a special sauce back to her , and Geiss ' daughter has trouble opening the women's rest room door ( she pushes when it's supposed to be pulled ) . . . Lots of hilarious stuff happens here like when Liz says she wants to be Marcia for once instead of Jan just before something hits her on the face , Liz looking fabulous in front of Floyd just as Pete instructs a crew member to hit the wind fan , and . . . well , you'll have to just watch the episode . With one more episode to go this season , 30 Rock is firing on all cylinders . I can't wait to find out if Liz is pregnant or not next week ! So until then . . .
SeinfeldVision marks a hilarious new start for " 30 Rock " s second season	After more than 3 months , " 30 Rock " is back with a new episode . Glad it's back , especially after it won the Emmy for Best Comedy ( loved Ms . Fey's acceptance speech in which she thanked " dozens and dozens of viewers " ) . This episode begins with Liz and Jack saying how good their summers been ( Liz doing a long quilt after breaking up with Floyd , Jack putting successful reality shows like " MILF Island " on after his surgery ) and how it's going to be a great year . Both , though , have their own troubles : Jack has been digitalizing Jerry Seinfeld on all the NBC shows without Jerry's approval , Liz keeps calling Floyd's apartment in Cleveland . Also , Tracy Jordan now lives in the building with Kenneth since his wife threw him out . Meanwhile , Jenna has gained a lot more weight since she kept eating pizza while performing in " Mystic Pizza : The Musical " on Broadway . And Seinfied , having found out about Jack's deceit during his family vacation in Europe , comes back to NBC . . . Many funny lines abound in this Fey-written season premiere with some favorites being Alec Baldwin's " Liz , women your age are more likely to be mauled by a bear than getting married " or Cerie's ( Katrina Bowden ) exchange to Liz after Liz accepted a bridesmaid invitation : " Now I've got something old . " Also loved Kenneth's creepy grin whenever he sees Seinfeld and his reciting the guy's TV theme in front of him to which Jerry can only reply , " Really ? " So much stuff that was funny that I won't reveal here . And nice to find out the ratings have indeed improved so on that note , to quote Jack and Liz , I think it's certainly going to be their year !
Brian De Palma's Phantom of the Paradise is one campy horror surprise !	Having recorded this movie from AMC in 2002 , I thought now , Halloween day , was the perfect time to finally watch Brian De Palma's Phantom of the Paradise . This modern-day retelling of The Phantom of the Opera is so ' 70s dated but that's what I found so fascinating about this cult horror-musical . Paul Williams , William Finley , and Jessica Harper are so right in their roles and the songs by Williams are very entertaining whether in ballad mode or the more hard rocking sound so prevalent in that decade . Ms . Harper is so luminous that when she sometimes seems a little overwrought in both vocalizing and dancing she's still fascinating anyway . Certainly her unlikely love scene with Mr . Williams ( with her unbuttoning his shirt ! ) is very sexy the way DePalma plays it . And the way Finley is pained when he watches is so heartbreaking . There's also some funny scenes concerning Gerrit Graham as the rock star Beef . This is one campy musical horror film that I enjoyed and may see again next year ! And what a treat to hear Rod Serling in the introductory narration shortly before his untimely death .
Daylight was a thrilling Sylvester Stallone flick despite some clichés	My dad and I felt like staying up late and he wanted to watch a movie . He picked this one among many HD-DVD's he bought by mail . A throwback to the disaster movies from the ' 70s made by Irwin Allen ( The Towering Inferno , The Poseidon Adventure ) and Universal Studios ( Earthquake , the Airport movies ) which distributed this one as well , Daylight provides plenty of thrilling action , plenty of explosions , and many supporting characters that you may or not care about . I did like that black guard character and the way he managed to help the Sylvester Stallone lead hero even after he got injured by that vehicle that crushed him as he give Stallone instructions though I did half think it convenient that it was another black guy giving his life for the white guy cliché . It's the same feeling I had when it looked like that dog was going to drown but I knew in movies like this that he would eventually turn back alive since I personally think that no audience would stand to have a pet , especially a dog , die ( it only worked in Old Yeller because that one was already rabid and had to be killed ) . And there were times that the Amy Brenneman character could get on ones nerves . Having said all that , Daylight was indeed well made and entertaining from beginning to end . Only really sad part about the final scene was the sight of the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center and the knowledge of what would happen to them and their inhabitants some five years later . . .
RoboCop is Paul Verhoeven's classic sci-fi action picture	Quick , what do Peter Weller , Ray Wise , and Paul McCrane have in common ? If you say they were all in RoboCop , you're all halfway there . What they also have in common was they all were in Day 5 of " 24 " ( with McCrane's role partly expanded to Day 6 ) . Besides those names other familiar faces include Ronny Cox ( Beverly Hills Cop series ) , Nancy Allen ( ex-husband Brian De Palma movies , I Wanna Hold Your Hand ) , Miguel Ferrer ( " Twin Peaks " ) , and , in the movie's best role , Kurtwood Smith ( " That ' 70s Show " ) as the main villain , Clarence Boddicker . While partially predictable , RoboCop has some of the most badass action in movie history with wonderful humorous touches throughout . Director Paul Verhoeven really keeps a constant pace during the chase scenes . Check out Leeza Gibbons as one of the news anchors in the TV clip sequences . This movie is most highly recommended .
Corporate Crush is another seriously funny episode of 30 Rock	After the fiasco of last week's fireworks show , Jack is relieved of his responsibilities of the microwave division of NBC-Universal . Liz is delirious about her relationship with Floyd . She arranges him to meet Jack who hits it off well with him causing Liz some concern . Meanwhile , Tracy , having found out about his ancestry from Thomas Jefferson , tries to get his multi-character Jefferson movie off the ground but gets a no from chairman Don Geiss ( returning guest Rip Torn ) . He wants a Fat Bitch 2 instead . At a museum , Jack gets reacquainted with a woman named Phoebe ( Emily Mortimer ) who previously helped his now ex-wife get some jewelry for her . Jack likes her so much he asks to marry her . . . Hilarious episode with highlights being Tracy's preview of his movie , Liz mouthing Jack when he tells Floyd a story during a basketball game , and Jack calling Floyd in Liz ' apartment with various phones ringing as they try to avoid him . Show keeps getting funnier and funnier . Too bad the ratings still haven't reflected that .
Love Will Find a Way marks an impressive second episode of " Swingtown "	When I previously reviewed the pilot episode of " Swingtown " , I forgot to mention it took place in my childhood hometown of Chicago , Ill . This episode had some good exterior scenes of the downtown area there as we see Bruce at his job as a trader . As enjoyable as this episode was , however , I have to once again mention some anachronisms concerning music used in the summer of ' 76 setting : 1977's " Best of My Love " by the Emotions and ' 78's " Love Will Find a Way " by Pablo Cruise . Unlike last week , both the adult couples ' and the teens ' stories provided equal interest especially the one concerning that teen boy and the runaway girl who provided some background about the ring she wore around her neck that belonged to her father who fought in Vietnam . I'm not sure I liked that all-female production of " Waiting for Godot " as much as that other teen girl did but it certainly was an interesting presentation as it was briefly played here . The way various couples were interacting and / or avoiding each other was of high interest to me as was the way certain objects stayed still while the rest of the scenes were dissolving . What I've seen of " Swingtown " looks good so far . Can't wait to see what the next episode provides . . . P . S . I also loved Janet's dream sequence involving she and her husband and the swinging couple they encountered previously . . .
Double Exposure has more than one ( or two ) meanings on " Swingtown "	Okay , so in this episode , Susan suddenly wants to go to church after she and Bruce hadn't gone for a while and they take their kids with them . How convenient Janet and Roger is there ( but their son isn't ) . Susan asks old friend Janet for a welcoming party at her new home which Janet accepts . At the party , new neighbors Tom and Trina , the swingers , also turn up along with Brad and Sylvia , the couple we met at the Playboy club last episode . They upset whatever balance Janet had control over the proceedings . Susan , however , opens up a little more when she tears the wallpaper she hated and invites everyone to write anything on it . Trina also warms a little over frosty Janet when she asks for one of her recipes which Janet writes on the wall . On the teens ' side , Susan's son's attempts to bond over the druggie woman neighbor's daughter is slow going especially when his previous best friend says he doesn't like it , and his sister is spending time with her summer school teacher at the library , after closing , searching books that have stayed on the shelf for about five years . The time there has her kissing her teacher that she had a crush on for a while . At show's end , Susan and Bruce resolve to be more open to each other before filming , for the first time , themselves having sex . . . Another compelling of " Swingtown " . Best surprise for me was when after Susan tore the wallpaper down , she also fixed the top part of her dress so that her shoulders were bare . What a woman ! That kiss from her teen daughter to her teacher almost chilled me but since the man didn't return it , maybe it won't lead to something more pervy . Trina sure likes to spice things up with that fondue , doesn't she ! And I loved that conversation between the fathers and sons about how the Playboy women weren't " real " ! Oh , and I didn't spot any anachronisms concerning music this time . So for all that , this was another enjoyable episode of " Swingtown " . Until next time . . .
Secrets and Lies was another funny episode of " 30 Rock "	Jenna got an award for a " movie based on a musical based on a movie " which gets Tracy jealous so Liz makes one up for him . Tracy then wants to stage an award presentation . Jack and C . C . are tired of sneaking around but while C . C . settles with her company in order for her and Jack to go public , Jack still refuses . James Carville just happens to stop by and helps Jack change his mind . He also helps Frank and Twofer settle their feud . Then he helps someone break into a candy machine . All " Cajun style " . Jenna , feeling jealous of Tracy's preferential treatment , becomes difficult herself until Liz reveals her award was a fake and how she's had to coddle her too . That gets Jenna in forgiving mode . After Jack and C . C . come out to his Republican friends , many of them start confession things too , the last one saying , " I killed my wife " . . . Another funny episode of " 30 Rock " . I loved Tracy when he was about to " shark " Jenna ! Everyone's on fire here and was glad to see Josh back in this and the last episode after being absent much of this season . Also like the American Express Christmas commercials that featured Kenneth and many of the supporting cast especially the one with Pete on " his time " about to watch the lesbian scene in Mulholland Drive when he suddenly gets surprised by Kenneth and Pete's kids ! With one more episode to go , I hope NBC keeps this show on after the writers ' strike ends despite the not-so-impressive ratings .
Cougars is another funny episode of " 30 Rock "	Okay , here's this week's " 30 Rock " plot in a nutshell : After making excuses for declining co-workers ' invitations , Liz is convinced by Jenna to become a " Cougar " ( i . e . an older woman preying a younger man ) after a coffee boy gets interested in her . Fellow comedy writer Frank also gets interested in him making Frank " gay for Jamie " . Jack and Kenneth offer to help Tracy with his boys club baseball team which almost leads to disaster . Needless to say , things gets awkward for Liz when she first reveals how much older she is and finds out how much younger Jamie is ( " This just went from a senior dating a freshman to Mary Kay Letourneau . . . " ) and then how his mother resembles her . Later , Frank finds out at a gay bar how non-gay he truly is . . . Mostly pretty funny if not hilarious episode of " 30 Rock " here . Loved many of the lines from Liz to Jamie about her trying to get some of his culture and him not getting many of hers ( except the one about Demi Moore ) . Also liked many of Tracy's kids lines about being certain stereotypes when they grow up . And then many of Frank's and Jenna's attempts to one-up Liz were pretty highly amusing ( Loved Frank's painting of a " one-armed mermaid who's part unicorn with Bigfoot " ) . Too bad " 30 Rock " hasn't picked up enough numbers in audience size . . .
The Collection was another funny episode of " 30 Rock "	Jack tells Liz he's getting an investigation on himself to keep G . E . from finding out about anything scandalous about him . The detective he meets ( Steve Buscemi ) does tell him he has to get rid of his cookie jar collection since the only reason Rudy Guiliani became New York mayor was because no one found out about his doll collection . Jenna is worried about losing her weight since her popularity increased from that so Kenneth tries to say mean things to make her hungry again . Instead it makes her horny for him . And while Liz agreed to watch Tracy when Angie goes somewhere , when Angie's gone Tracy goes to a strip club which doesn't sit well with his wife . . . Many hilarious stuff concerning Jack's cookie jar collection and Jenna's commercial for Enormie , the perfume for plus-size women ( " Make him chase the chunk . " ) After missing for the first two second season episodes , Pete was back for a brief conversation with Liz . Buscemi's appearance was perhaps a bit brief . Maybe he'll be back in another episode . Kenneth , as always , has the best lines . Sherri Shepherd also was funny as Angie . Be back next week with another review . . .
The Flying House is a fascinating Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend short	Watching The Flying House , I couldn't help but think that many of the sequences of the house spinning around up and down was just Mr . McCay showing off as I believe if the couple's home was really doing that they would've been really dizzy ! This must've been the first time there was an animated depiction of space with the earth and moon moving side-by-side . Also love the detail of the gas engines with all the wheels pulling all the pulley gadgets constantly and the final sequence where we see a rocket about to explode on the moon instead destroying the house leaving the couple spinning around before they start to fall hastening the woman to wake up . . . Fascinating if less known of Winsor McCay's animated shorts , this Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend entry certainly keeps on its toes in movement and , through written balloons , dialogue . Highly essential viewing for any animation history buff .
This episode of " The Hollywood Palace " should be of great interest to fans of Groucho Marx and Margaret Dumont	Just watched on YouTube this special episode of " The Hollywood Palace " hosted by Groucho Marx . What was so special about it ? Well , besides his 18-year-old daughter Melinda singing her Petulia Clark-like number called " The East Side of Town " as well as a duet with her father , this particular show marked the last appearance of Groucho's frequent movie and stage co-star-not to mention " The fifth Marx Brother " - Margaret Dumont who died not long after this show was taped and a few weeks before this aired . It's the " Hooray for Captain Spalding " number and despite Groucho's claim that Ms . Dumont never got any of his or his brothers ' jokes , the real-life wealthy dowager cracks up every time he opens his mouth . By the way , loved the " Peyton Place " reference ! There was also a unicycle act called The Four Kents , a Scottish comedian who plays the piano named Don Saunders , African singer Miriam Makeba , flamenco dancer Lydia Torea , and husband-and-wife singing team Gordon and Sheila MacRae ( I did not see other scheduled guest Shecky Greene so I must have watched an edited version online ) . Mr . Marx was entertainingly witty the whole time and hardly seemed old compared to ten years later . If you're a die-hard Marx Brothers fan and are curious about the last team-up of Groucho and Dumont , I highly recommend this episode of " The Hollywood Palace " .
Hi-De-Ho ( 1947 ) was a mostly excellent musical showcase for Cab Calloway	At first , I wasn't too thrilled about this movie because of Cab's rough treatment of Minnie ( Jeni Le Gon ) and her insolent attitude in return . And the idea of Calloway going to an audition arranged by his manager Nettie ( Ida James ) when , at this point in his life , he had already entertained millions of people in several movies , on radio , and in concerts makes this very much a plot for the birds . Good thing then that not too much time is spent on the " story " though Minnie's tragic end was a little touching with Cab granting her last wish . From then on , it's just a variety show starring Cab with his orchestra along with The Peters Sisters ( a talented group of full-figured women singers ) , and the tap-dancing Millers and Lois ( their tap routines are some of the best I've seen ) . While just every number performed by the Hi-De-Ho man is great , he's especially compelling on the " St . James Infirmary " number . And seeing the wedding number with Cab , Ida without the glasses , and Augustus Smith as the preacher makes an excellent finale for the picture . So on that note , I highly recommend Hi-De-Ho ( 1947 version since Cab previously made a couple of shorts with this name , one of which I reviewed in February ) . P . S . David Betha who plays the Brass Hat Owner here was previously in The Green Pastures ( another movie I reviewed in February ) as Aaron , Ms . Le Gon was born in my birth town of Chicago , Ill . , Mr . Smith was born in Jacksonville , Fl . , a place I lived in from 1987-2003 .
Canned Feud is another funny Friz Freling Sylvester cartoon	Watching Friz Freling's Canned Feud , I found myself feeling very sorry for Sylvester for not getting the can opener , to open tuna , from a mean little mouse since no reason is established for his animosity . Still , its pretty funny seeing the cat trying to do nasty things back to the rodent and failing each time . And the twist at the end shows how exhausted Sylvester can get with each obstacle . So , with that in mind , I'll just say that despite the cat being more sympathetic this time around , that doesn't lessen the laughs I got from all his troubles with the mouse , the can opener , and the way things turned out in the end . Frustration can be so hilarious when one calamity builds upon another . So , on that note , I highly recommend Canned Feud .
Crumley Cogwheel was another highly amusing Paramount Modern Madcap cartoon	Just watched this Paramount Modern Madcap cartoon on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . In this one , the title character is sent to the president of the Michigan Nuts and Bolts company . This boss has kept his eye on Cogwheel for the last 20 years and wonders why he never asked for a raise . He gives him one week to demand one or he's fired . So Crumley goes to a psychiatrist who tells him to get a new look by shaving his mustasche and getting a wig since he's bald . Unfortunately , he's mistaken for someone else by his boss and gets thrown out ! So on the last day , Crumley gets drunk and walks in his boss ' meeting . When he belligerently demands his raise . . . I'll stop there and just say this was a pretty amusing cartoon from writer Irv Spector and director Seymour Kneitel . The voices of the boss and Crumley are those of Eddie Lawrence who is good at the different characterizations . His Cogwheel brings to mind early Woody Allen especially during the gibberish scenes . What I just described were pretty amusing so when the punchline at the end comes it really hits a wallop ! So on that note , I highly recommend Crumley Cogwheel .
The Education of Jamie Sommers is a more fun " Bionic Woman " episode	In this , the first Katee Sackhoff-less episode , Jamie poses as a British transfer student in college in order to investigate a possible suspect-a professor-of whoever is responsible of planting some chip in some returning Iraq soldiers that make them kill their superiors . She also falls for a teaching assistant who also becomes a suspect . Meanwhile , Antonio is tracking a Middle Eastern foreigner who's also suspected of selling these gadgets . . . This is the first we hear Michelle Ryan speak in her natural English accent and it sounds a lot better than her American one ( That scene when she is talking on the phone with one of her handlers while still speaking in that accent as she's walking all alone was a highlight of the episode especially when that handler admits how turned on he is by it ! A similar thing happens when a guy she falls for admits the same thing after he hears her " normal " voice . ) Entertaining scenes of her just enjoying her " college fantasy " like switching with her roommate-a young Asian girl-her science assignment for one on James Joyce which gets Jamie an A . With this episode there also seems to be a sense of fun missing from most of the previous ones though many of those were compelling to watch . Since this ep aired two weeks ago , I'll probably review the next one soon . . .
Two Thousand Maniacs ! was another effective Herschell Gordon Lewis horror film	Having finally watched a Herschell Gordon Lewis horror movie last year on YouTube ( The Wizard of Gore ) , when I found out that Two Thousand Maniacs ! was now there as well ( actually , The Wizard of Gore now seems removed ) , I quickly clicked the first of nine parts that were uploaded . It was fascinating listening to The Pleasant Vally Boys playing their bluegrass music throughout even after all the gory things that happened though there was silence after one of those deaths were depicted that provided some chills . The gore is mostly well done if not as shocking to me since I grew up watching the Friday the 13th movies on HBO as a teen . The stars are Connie Mason , Thomas Wood ( a . k . a William Kerwin who would eventually marry Mason ) , Jeffrey Allen ( who was born in my birthtown of Chicago , Ill . ) , Shelby Livingston , Ben Moore , Jerome Eden , Gary Bakeman , Mark Douglas , Linda Cochran , Yvonne Gilbert ( who would eventually marry director Lewis before divorcing him ) , Michael Korb , Vincent Santo , Andy Wilson , and Candi Conder . Mason and Wood were in Lewis ' previous film , Blood Feast . All the Southern accents sounded exaggerated though Cochran as Betsy was a turn-on for me especially since her top allowed her bare shoulders and some cleavage ! The other women , Gilbert ( Beverly ) , Livingston ( Bea ) , and Mason ( Terry ) , not to mention Conder's cameo as a switchboard operator were also classic beauties . As for the men , well , their performances were all over the place especially those between Allen as Mayor Buckman , Moore as Lester , and Bakeman as Rufus though no one was as irritating as the kid Santo who plays Billy with the most atrocious Southern accent and is way too loud to boot ! Having known about the Bridgadoon reference , I wasn't surprised by the twist . So overall , this was quite an effective thriller from the legendary H . G . Lewis .
The Rare Coin is the first of six episodes of " Amos ' n ' Andy " I'm reviewing for Black History Month	George " Kingfish " Stevens retrieves a letter to Andy Brown concerning a rare nickle from 1877 Andy accidentally found . In trying to get that coin from Andy , Kingfish pretends to be a doctor to get Andy to rest his eyes by blindfolding his face so Andy can sleep in darkness . When the Kingfish tries to call the coin collection company , he accidentally puts the rare coin in the pay phone . . . While lots more happens here , I'll just say that this was a hilarious episode of what is now considered an offensive program because of the stereotypes concerning blacks of the time . Since most of the programs of the time were white-oriented , they probably had a point but now with many multi-cultural choices on the tube , I think they should bring " Amos ' n ' Andy " back on television . TV Land would probably be a good place to start . Anyway , Andy and the Kingfish are a very funny comedy team as perfectly played by Spencer Williams and Tim Moore . Johnny Lee as disbarred lawyer Algonquin J . Calhoun also provides some laughs . Their comic antics are balanced here by many of the African-American cops and judges as well as the good citizen Amos Jones as played by Alvin Childress . So on that note , with this being the first of six episodes I'm reviewing for Black History Month , I'd heartily recommend " Amos ' n ' Andy " .
Friends with Benefits was another pretty entertaining episode of " Swingtown "	After the last episode when Bruce got angry at Susan for going to the Harry Reems fundraiser on her own , he manages to coerce her into joining a country club fundraiser for children's charities for his boss ' wife Rita Pierce's ( Judith Hoag ) wives club . Janet comes as Susan's guest and charms Mrs . Pierce after she cleans her jacket with Sweet and Low after Mrs . Pierce spills her drink on it . So Janet is also invited to join the country club . Meanwhile , Tom and Trina are at the airport scanning potential swingers when one of them turns out to be Trina's old high school flame Luke ( Ryan McPartlin who plays Captain Awesome on " Chuck " and actually is a native of the city this show takes place in as this author also is , Chicago ) . While Tom and Trina's marriage is indeed open , Tom seems jealous for the first time here . There's also a blond stewardess here that may figure in a future story . Anyway , they end up in a threesome . With Janet loving the taste of the upperclass , she persuades hubby Bruce to ask for a raise from his insurance job . When he does , he gets fired due to cutbacks but the only person he tells is Susan . He also tells her he's relieved since he was miserable much of those 15 years . With Janet having been accepted in the country club , Susan initially wants to quit since she senses Mrs . Pierce doesn't know where the hospital for the charity actually is but relents in hoping to set things right with her . Oh , I should mention that Tom , Trina , and Luke , who now runs his father's company , also attended this party . As for the teens side of this story , the boys are off to camp while Laurie's last assignment for Mr . Stephens ( Michael Rady ) is an oral assignment on relating philosophers to her real life . Since her life consists of dreaming of her teacher , she fails . But after it's over , she and Doug , Teach's first name , start kissing . Oh , and one of Bruce's fellow co-workers is the only woman , Melinda ( Rachelle Lefevre ) , who knows of the bets about her sleeping with one of them which Bruce didn't take . . . I had previously expressed reservations about the Laurie / teacher relationship so now that it's happening I'm glad it didn't dominate this episode's storyline and I'm reserving till the next episode to see how farther it goes . Missed Samantha this week so hoping she returns next . Wow ! Janet really seemed happy with her social climbing and her new hairstyle really matched her new attitude . Too bad it may soon fall down when Bruce reveals to her his real job status . Trina and Tom seem fine this episode especially with Luke almost threatening their marriage but next episode Tom may be less open about an affair to his wife which may be with that blonde I mentioned . And Melinda makes a move on Bruce the following week even though she knows he's married ! Wow ! A lot to think about when watching the next episode so until next time . . .
Kiss of Death marks Widmark's Oscar-nominated debut	Since this movie was made while there was still a Production Code , that is before the movie ratings system of 1968 , Kiss of Death may strike some modern-day viewers as dull except for the famous scene of Richard Widmark's Tommy Udo pushing Mildred Dunnock's crippled woman down a flight of stairs , a sequence I first saw as a clip in Sean Penn's 1984 Bad Boys . From a script by Ben Hecht and Charles Lederer with direction by Henry Hathaway , this movie takes its time with the story of Nick Bianco ( Victor Mature ) , a career criminal who can't get a break going legit so he robs a jewelry store during the Christmas season and gets caught . It's in jail that he meets Udo who he befriends . Initially refusing to play " stool pigeon " , he changes his mind after a tragedy involving his wife . That's all I'll tell you except I'll also mention good support from Coleen Gray as the narrator and Mature's second wife and , especially , Brian Donlevy as the attorney who tries to protect Nick . Because sequences involving the first wife were not allowed under the Code , like I said , it might make for dull viewing but when some of it gets mentioned later one can almost put two and two together and make for some compelling visuals for the thinking mind to ponder . It's the performances of Mature and Widmark and the various point-of-view shots and shadowy lighting that makes this one of the more compelling film noir's of the late ' 40s . So for all of the above , I highly recommend this movie . P . S . Look for a young Karl Malden .
Cabin Fever was another pleasantly good episode of " Swingtown "	This was another pretty good episode of " Swingtown " with the three couples of Bruce and Susan , Roger and Janet , Tom and Trina making it a threesome ( not in THAT way ! ) with Janet and Trina having some kind of truce especially after everyone eats Janet's brownies-that Trina laced-after Susan spilled the beans about that . On the teens side , Laurie invites her teacher for dinner . He arrives late after the food was eaten but stays to watch Double Indemnity with her . After he tells her nothing can come of that kiss , Laurie tells him that he's only her instructor for the next two weeks . As the teacher leaves , he's seen by Laurie's former boyfriend who looks jealous . And Ricky , B . J . , and Samantha spend some time at her mom's pool with them all listening to some bootleg KISS from Holland . As Ricky gets drunk , B . J . and Samantha talk about how the neighborhood becomes " freak central " . Oh , and when the women sleep in one room with the men in the other , Trina admits to some loneliness concerning Tom's upcoming flights to Tokyo . . . Nice to see Janet get a little loose in this episode and Trina not push her " buttons " so much . Once again , I'm glad not to see the Laurie-Teach relationship pushed much further , at least not for now . And can I say , seeing Grant Show-who I've been familiar with since " Melrose Place " - with that ' 70s mustache is such a hoot to watch especially when he asks Janet when she's serving lemonade , " Hey good lookin ' , what's cookin ' ? " In summation , " Swingtown " is one of the more pleasant surprises on television this summer . Can't wait for the next episode . . .
Meet Corliss Archer : Corliss the Cheerleader is funniest episode yet !	The announcer says the house is shaking as we see the frame shaking a little bit . Inside , Corliss is practicing her cheers . Her mother Janet comes by and shows her daughter what her cheers were like before breaking her heel . Father Harry also comes by and does a cheer from his school days before snapping his suspenders . Boyfriend Dexter then does one from a small and wide table before breaking it while jumping ! Corliss asks Dexter to get head cheerleader Finlay to coach her . Finlay agrees without pay when he sees Corliss making Dexter jealous ! I'll just stop here and tell you this is the funniest and most believable episode of Meet Corliss Archer I've seen yet . The physical comedy involving the Archers and Dexter is the most well-timed . If you like a nice family comedy mixed with a little slapstick , " Corliss the Cheerleader " is a very good episode to seek out .
Frigid Hare is a cute and amusing Bugs Bunny cartoon	Frigid Hare is another Bugs Bunny cartoon in which he should have taken a " left turn at Albuquerque " and ends up at the South Pole . It's here that he meets a little penguin who he saves from a hunter who wants to capture him . When he tries to get back to Miami Beach , however , the penguin wants to follow him . Bugs pushes him on his way but the little snow-bird ends up in the man's bag . So the rabbit now has to outsmart him . . . This is both a cute and funny cartoon made by a man who knows how to make that combination work : Chuck Jones . Supposedly , this cartoon was banned recently because of the way the man in this short was drawn and depicted in characterization . While there might some traces of a stereotype here , I don't think any harm was intended . Anyway , I highly recommend Frigid Hare . It's on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 .
The Voice of the Nightingale is most charming Ladislaw Starewicz short	The Voice of the Nightingale is Ladislaw Starewicz's most charming short about birds and their relationship with nature and humans . It stars his daughter as a girl who keeps the bird after he accidentally wrecks her doll while walking through her trap cage . The bird briefly turns into a rat while captured , frightening the girl ( and us ! ) . The captured bird sings hanging on a windowsill as the girl dreams first of a grasshopper and spider fighting over a pixie captured in spider's web , and then of the caged bird's wife , whom he was looking for when the girl got him , leaving their child alone . She wakes up and frees her pet . As reward , she now has a beautiful singing voice . Besides the story , there's also wonderful color-tinting to be awed and inspired by . So if you love Ladislaw Starewicz's work , seek out the DVD from Image Entertainment , The Cameraman's Revenge and Other Fantastic Tales .
I Heard is another compelling jazz-flavored Betty Boop cartoon	This is another jazz-flavored Betty Boop cartoon . This time , the band leader whose song is the title of this short is named Don Redman , a now-obscure artist . This short basically takes place in a mine where the workers go through a shower that washes the coal off their clothes before going to Betty Boop's Tavern ( or Betty Boop's Saloon according to the cartoon backdrop display that appears in the live-action credits when Redman and his Orchestra plays ) and then after we hear Don's rendition of a song that mentions the leading cartoon character's name Betty herself performs with a chorus of mice coming out of the stairs she's singing in front of . Lots of other bizarre stuff happens but , as always in a Fleischer cartoon , it's hard to describe . Well , actually after the miners go through the shower head again , the coal dirt comes back on ! And as always , the music and animation matches perfectly . So on that note , I recommend I Heard .
" Rod Serling : Submitted for Your Approval " is another fine episode of " American Masters "	In preparation of watching a couple of Rod Serling's TV films on the internet , I thought I'd rewatch this " American Masters " episode on his life and career , especially of the show he is most famous for . Presented entirely in black-and-white , Lee Grant narrates the first and last segments while other passages taken from Serling quotes and writings are spoken by Mitch Greenberg in an uncanny impersonation of Rod . We also get photos of him at home , in Hollywood , in New York , as a paratrooper during World War II , and near the end of his life when he looks aged and maybe a little tired . Well chosen scenes of the show itself provide astute commentary on Serling's philosophy and attitude and show what a brilliant writer he really was . We also get scenes of his earlier TV successes , " Patterns " and " Requieum for the Heavyweight " . Various actors , directors , producers , and other writers who worked on Serling's shows provide their own commentary on Rod and Mike Wallace gives his take on his interview with him just before " The Twilight Zone " premiered . The most poignant ones , however , come from widow Carol and his two daughters as well as surviving brother Robert . So if you're interested in a good documentary on the life and career of this vastly talented man , " Rod Serling : Submitted for Your Approval " is a fine place to start . P . S . I got a kick out of seeing clips of Serling's teleplay " The Velvet Alley " that featured future Odd Couple stars : original Broadway Felix Unger , Art Carney , talking to TV's Oscar Madison , Jack Klugman .
You , the People is another compelling " Crime Does Not Pay " short subject	Before I begin , I'd like to note that Bill Edmonds-Mr . Martini in It's a Wonderful Life-plays Louie the janitor here . Also appearing are " The Beverly Hillbillies " Raymond Bailey as Bailey Henchman and " Leave It To Beaver " s Hugh Beaumont as Pete . And that Barbara Bedford , who died in a city I once lived in-Jacksonville , Fla . - is a rooming house diner here . Shades ( or maybe not ) of the 2000 general presidential election , this " Crime Does Not Pay " short explores the illegal ways an incumbent mayor's re-election staff tries of " stuffing the ballots " and convincing the " regular folks " to stay home on election day . When someone tries to expose them , however , someone gets shot and police arrive as they try to burn the polling place . . . Gets pretty exciting at the end with the chases and shootings and is also compelling when someone at the end says to shut up since the person he talked to admitted he didn't vote . A pretty good account of how corruptness always seems to be around the corner near election day . Hope nothing like that happens this year with Obama now declared the Democratic presidential nominee . . .
Rocketeers is one of the best Tom and Jerry ( not that one ! ) cartoons	Another Tom and Jerry ( the human Van Beuren ones from the thirties , not the cat and mouse team from MGM ) cartoon and one of their best yet . They're in a parade where they're about to launch in a rocket . As one of the councilmen talks in a clarinet-note voice , the short one ( Jerry ) goes in the rocket joined by Tom ( the tall one ) as pushed by the councilman . The moon with a face says , " Uh-oh " , but the rocket actually aims for the sea . Down there we see various sea animals in one-note gags before a male sounding mermaid host says , " Hello , suckers " as we now see a sea-animal band with the lead characters now embracing a couple of beautiful mermaids of their own . They then sing at the piano with their women now dancing . At this point , the councilmen pull Tom and Jerry up with their women who dive back down with T and J and the councilmen following them , hats now floating as we iris out . . . Not much personality of the lead characters or much of a story but good use of animation throughout with wonderful music especially the song at the end . Possibly available in various public domain collections on VHS or DVD . I saw this one on Google Video when I typed " Van Beuren " and saw other Tom and Jerry ( again not the cat and mouse team ) cartoons listed . Well worth seeking out .
You're Telling Me ! is one of W . C . Fields ' early classic comedies	W . C . Fields was one comedian from the movies ' golden age that took me a while to like as a kid . The first time I remember laughing at him was when , in Fatal Glass of Beer , he keeps looking at the open window and saying , " And it ain't a fit night out for man nor beast ! " after which snow would hit him in the face ! You're Telling Me ! has plenty of funny visual and verbal gems that keep the movie breezing along for little more than an hour . Among the highlights are the beginning when Mr . Fields , coming home drunk , encounters a curtain constantly along with his angry wife who keeps telling him to take off his hat and put down his shoes , his talking a princess on a train out of " suicide " after failing to attempt one himself ( because of constant interruptions ) , his struggles with an ostrich he buys for his wife , and his golf game at the end that also gets delayed with various distractions especially from the caddy ( Fields also did this routine on his talkie debut , The Golf Specialist ) . You're Telling Me ! is one of Fields ' classics that should be essential viewing for anyone wanting to be introduced to his work .
The Break Up is another very funny episode of " Samantha Who ? "	At her workplace , Samantha receives some flowers from Kevin . Her assistant Tracy , already late , frantically offers to take some of the more undesirable parts off of them . Samantha tells her she doesn't have to be scared of her anymore since she's different post-coma . She tells Tracy to treat her as a girlfriend . Before her next date , Sam talks to Andrea , Dena , and her mom Regina about her upcoming first time since the accident of " doing it " . Afterwards , with Kevin still asleep , she declares herself in love so she moves her stuff out of Todd's ( formerly hers ) apartment and moves in with Kevin . Kevin breaks up with her at the next dinner . Seeing Sam put pictures of her and the one from Kevin together with scissors , Andrea tries to cheer her up with a drink . At first refusing because of her alcoholism , Tracy reveals she's really not so off they go with Dena and Regina in tow ! Later , in trying to reach Todd by shouting from the apartment entrance , Frank the doorman takes the drunk Sam to an empty restaurant table as they talk about what love really is . When Sam finally sees Todd , she tells she loved him then though she didn't say so at the time . When she gets back to work , Tracy has shirked most of her responsibilities so Sam goes bossy on her again . She then adds " please " . . . Another hilarious episode of " Samantha Who ? " that fully explores the difficulties of living with amnesia . Loved seeing this new side of Tracy in being the opposite of what we've seen of her especially when she quickly changes back when Sam slips to her old side temporarily . Also nice to see Frank have more of a role here . Another good line was Dena's about the curtain matching the drapes in comparison to Samantha about to choose mismatched bra and panties . Overall , one of the funniest episodes of " Samantha Who ? " yet !
Beyond the Fringe provides early look at the careers of Peter Cook and Dudley Moore	So after decades of reading about the comedy revue that jump-started the careers of the comic duo Peter Cook and Dudley Moore , I finally watched on DVD that revue that also featured Alan Bennett and Jonathan Miller : Beyond the Fringe . Not everything that was depicted in this now-legendary event was funny , in fact , many of the references to certain historical or cultural happenings were dated to me but there were still a few skits that were quite hilarious to me like the beginning one about America , " The Great Train Robbery " with Cook making it clear that it's not a reference to a train being stolen , another Cook sketch in which he's a coal miner who wanted to be a judge and who writes about nude women on the side , and then there's " One Leg Too Few " in which Cook interviews Moore jumping on one foot as he auditions for the role of Tarzan ! That one I recognized immediately since I first watched this sketch on a rerun of " Saturday Night Live " that they hosted when I was a teen . Still quite hilarious to me . Also loved seeing Moore at the piano especially as he makes faces to us or when he performs a pretentious version of " The Colonel Bogey March " . Bennett can be a bit droll here especially when he plays a vicar delivering a sermon about the part of a sardine can you can't reach into and Miller can occasionally amuse when he mugs furiously . So on that note , I'd recommend Beyond the Fringe for anyone who's into satire especially of the British kind .
The Uranium Conspiracy is quite an exciting movie that I just discovered	This is another movie that was just put up on YouTube that I decided to watch . This film , whose English title is The Uranium Conspiracy , is the first time I've watched a Yoram Globus-Menahem Golan production directed by Golan in its entirety . As a spy thriller involving nuclear weapons , this was quite an exciting flick especially during the boat and car chase scenes . Filmed in many European locations and some sea locales , there were many intrigues that got me hooked throughout the picture . Fabio Testi is the Italian agent Renzo who does assignments for Israeli Dan ( Assi or Assaf Dayan ) for a price . Despite that , they're actually friends . Helga ( Janet Agren ) is the Swedish woman who works for a German company that makes nuclear weapons . She falls for Renzo . That's all I'll say except this is one exciting movie that I'm glad I watched on YouTube !
Stan and Ollie star in the ironically titled Perfect Day	This is one of Laurel and Hardy's earliest talkies . It basically involves the boys ' attempt to take their wives and Uncle Edgar Kennedy , who has a gouty foot , to a picnic but because of car troubles are unable to get out . Hilarious use of sound effects throughout especially in the use of the car horn and the sound when Ollie hits Stan on the head with a clutch after Stan literally threw it out per Ollie's commands ! During one ad-lib scene between the wives and uncle , Kennedy says a swear word that I probably wouldn't have noticed had I not read about it in a Laurel and Hardy filmography book . All this plus a rowdy dog , some unruly neighbors-one of whom is Stan's buddy Baldwin Cooke , and brick throwing at windows and you have one of the funniest comedy shorts of the late ' 20s . Well worth the time for lovers of comedy in general !
See Superstar : The Karen Carpenter Story for it's unusual doll depiction of a life	I have seen this long illegally circulated film on YouTube after nearly twenty years of hearing about it . Filmmaker Todd Haynes ' dramatization of Karen Carpenter's life story and her battle with anorexia nervosa with Barbie dolls makes this one of the most fascinating depictions of a superstar's descent into madness . Karen's fellow musician brother Richard and mother Agnes also make impressions though not always positive ones . Interspersed with actual news footage of ' 70s events and Carpenter songs playing at the same time , there's a disorienting atmosphere throughout . You also get commentary , both pro and con , on Karen's music from some real people on screen . Haynes , who would later make Far From Heaven and Safe , plays various Carpenter songs alone to illustrate Karen's feelings clearly when scenes focus on her . The video I saw was a bit fuzzy but don't let that stop you . For the unusual way you see an entertainer's life depicted , Superstar : The Karen Carpenter Story is certainly one of the most mind blowing experiences I've ever had !
Ode to G . I . Joe is amusing tribute to 12 " action figure	The Archies ' " Sugar , Sugar " is playing in the background as we dolly through a child's room filled with mostly ' 70s items ( like a Partridge Family album ) . We then pan to the radio and see a G . I . Joe doll switch to another station . Now it's playing The Staple Singers ' " I'll Take You There " as we see lots of other G . I . Joe dolls dancing ! This continues until we hear an adult voice calling for his son . The son asks what his dad wants . Dad wants him to clean his room . Son says he did . Dad doesn't believe him since he saw the mess ! Way before Toy Story came this stop-motion short by Gregory Grant about the various 12 " G . I . Joe dolls that were on the market from 1964 to 1978 . This film is dedicated in memory of them . Very amusing and highly recommended , Ode to G . I . Joe is one of many shorts from the Volume 5 videocassette of The International Tournee of Animation from 1992 .
Push Comes to Shove is bizarre Bill Plympton animation short	Push Comes to Shove is an animated short about two men looking the same doing various bizarre things to their faces . Like one pulling the other's ears forward , tying them in front of his face , getting a big rock in between the tied ears and pulling said ears with rock toward the face making a big fluffy hole on it . Or using grass seed with water on other's face , growing grass on it , and using a lawnmower to mow it down ! Or painting red marks on it so it looks like a baseball before hitting it , then another face appears literally from the neck up ! Like I said , pretty bizarre and highly recommend ! I saw this on Volume 5 of The International Tournee of Animation from 1992 . Well worth seeing if you like the offbeat .
Musical Charmers is a wonderful showcase for Phil Spitalny and his All-Girl Orchestra	This musical short from Paramount was another rarity that I read about in the Matinée at the Bijou site which linked this to YouTube . As we watch a performance of Phil Spitalny and his All-Girl Orchestra and Choir , the first song being performed is " I'll Bet You Tell That to All the Girls " led by a three-girl chorus . Then we segue to Evelyn and her Magic Violin with singer Maxine for " Rendezvous with a Dream " . After that , pianists Rochelle and Lola provide their version of " Goody Goody " . And finally , the entire orchestra plays " Song of India " with silhouettes of two female belly dancers as the short concludes . . . Very entertaining from beginning to end , Musical Charmers provided another musical act on film that possibly entertained many audience members who otherwise couldn't have afforded to see them live . I myself was familiar with them having seen them in Abbott and Costello's Here Come the Co-eds . This short is highly recommend to anyone interested in vintage period music as well as anyone who just loves to find new discoveries from the cinema of yesteryear . P . S . Evelyn Kaye Klein-the one with the " magic " violin-was married to Spitalny in real life .
Betty Boop and Grampy is another entertaining Fleischer cartoon	Having just rediscovered Betty Boop and Grampy on Mark Evanier's site , I forgot how charming the entire cartoon was especially the fun-loving inventor Grampy ! Betty sings and invites two piano movers , a fireman , and a traffic cop to Grampy's house which is far from the first door the gang arrive at but moves to it once it is rung ! Once inside , they encounter a ceiling punch , an uncovered umbrella that cuts the cake at all sides at the same time , a musical showcase of " Hold That Tiger " involving a Rube Goldberg-like device of a teakettle-playing flute with gloves and a fan and a boot pushing a trash can and a clock , and Grampy pushing chairs to his guests after getting exhausted dancing while he continues doing so . I also marveled at the 3-D like backgrounds in the beginning that seemed par for the course in these Fleischer shorts . While Disney's cartoons may have been more artistically pleasing , Fleischer's were some of the most entertaining at this time . Well worth checking out !
Porky's Tire Trouble is another funny Porky Pig cartoon by Bob Clampett	Just found this on Thad's Animation Blog . This was another Bob Clampett cartoon starring Porky Pig . In this one , it's Porky's dog , Flat Foot Flookey , that gets the lion's share of the laughs especially after following his master to his job at the Snappy Rubber Co . and falling into a vat of rubberized solution that causes his face to morph into various celebrities ( including Edward G . Robinson and Clark Gable ) . The dog also gets into a scrape with Porky's boss who loudly declares , " I hate dogs ! " which scares a hot dog to get out of his bun ! That last incident I mentioned was the funniest thing in the cartoon ! So on that note , I highly recommend Porky's Tire Trouble .
Thank God It's Friday is a fun ' 70s disco dance movie	After almost 30 years of hearing or reading about the ' 70s disco movie , Thank God It's Friday , and having taped it for future viewing from AMC 5 years ago , I finally got around to seeing it a couple of hours ago . I must say , I was mainly expecting some cheesy comedy set in a dance club with lame jokes and a bare plot . Instead , most of the intentional punchlines and visual gags worked and I loved the multi-character story lines that occasionally overlapped . Good musical performances by The Commodores and Donna Summer who here plays a struggling singer named Nicole Sims . Her song , " Last Dance " is the highlight of this movie and helped win an Oscar for Best Song for its writers , Giorgio Moroder and Paul Jabara who also plays a character who gets stuck in a staff room backstage . Also appearing are Jeff Goldblum as the club's owner , Debra Winger as a nice girl , and future Berlin lead singer Terri Nunn , who's 16 here , as an underage club hopper . Special mention must go to the guy who plays Marv Gomez ( Chick Vennera ) who's hilarious dancing on some car roofs having the time of this life . Watch this movie and see if you don't feel the same ! By the way , kudos to whoever animated the Columbia Torch Lady dancing . . .
To All My Friends on Shore presents a touching , dramatic Bill Cosby	Having mainly seen Dr . Cosby ( I refer him as such because of his PHD ) in " Fat Albert " , " The Cosby Show " , his movies with Sidney Poitier , and his guest appearances in various ' 70s variety shows ( as well as starring in his own short-lived ABC show ) , I was wonderfully surprised to see him playing a dramatic role in this TV movie from his own idea about a ghetto man who works various jobs in order to save enough money to buy a home for his maid working / nurse training wife and his teenage son . Because he doesn't let his son out much , there is some animosity between them . Cosby does a good job in fleshing his character's background to his son during many of the walks and drives that are well staged by director Gilbert Gates ( Oh , God ! Book II , The Academy Awards ) . Gloria Foster ( The Matrix I and II ) is fine as the wife . The son ( Dennis Hines ) later gets a disease that is common for blacks so we also get some lessons about Yesterday , Today , and Tomorrow People that leads to a very touching denouement . The $1 DVD I got is double-billed with The Black Brigade with Richard Pryor and Billy Dee Williams . Worth checking out for any Cosby fans .
Unexpected is a step up from the previous few Heroes episodes	When we last saw Claire with her mom , Mrs . Bennett had lost all memory . Claire leaves to get her younger brother and finds her mom get her memory back . A few minutes later , however , Mrs . Bennett collapses . The agent that frees Hiro pulls a gun on him . Seems he wants a piece of the showgirl's action . The showgirl and Ando stop which is when Ando discovers her riches and gets a gun pulled on him . Matt gives his wife the diamond ring he took from the dead guy he guarded . Wife calls to get ring extended and finds out about the stolen merchandise . Matt's about to turn them in when he gets a call from Ted ( the guy who can set fire on himself ) and his new female partner who can use her mind to type on the internet . Mohinder and Syler , who the former still thinks is the guy he was looking for last week , find Dale , a mechanic who can can hear sounds a hundred miles or so away . She plays rap music on her walkman to keep the loud sounds from bothering her . Mohinder and Syler offer to help the next day but she turns up dead by then . Syler had murdered her the previous night and now finds himself overwhelmed with her power . Issac asks HRG to help find Peter with Simone doing the same with Issac and Nathan . Peter and Claude are doing painful test battles when HRG and the Haitian man find them . At this point Peter confidently uses his powers that he's encountered over the last few months and flies himself and Claude out of the pursuers way . HRG gets a phone call from Claire to come home because of his wife's condition . As the showgirl and the agent battle it out , Hiro and Ando run to a bus luggage cabin and apologize to each other . Just as the showgirl is about to shoot them , Hiro regains his powers and prevents the bullet from hitting them . He then leaves Ando to his car as he takes the next bus . Claire lashes out at her father for all the deception he's done . After the Bennetts arrive home , they are held up by Matt , Ted , and the Internet girl ( sorry , don't know her name yet ) . Peter confronts Issac about his telling HRG about his whereabouts and destroys his paintings while turning invisible . Issac uses the gun given him by HRG and shoots at wherever invisible Peter strikes but he ends up shooting Simone who Peter had tried to protect by making her invisible too . They both look on at Simone's dead body . . . Wow , more action packed than the previous few episodes . Loved seeing Marvel honcho Stan Lee as the bus driver Hiro encounters . Claire's father sure got what he deserved from his daughter but what's he going to do now that he knows what she knows ? When will Mohinder find out about Sylar ? Will Peter and Issac reluctantly team up ? And where is Hiro going ? Hope the next episode turns out to be more exciting . Until next time . . .
What's Up Doc ? is an amusing show biz parody cartoon from Bugs Bunny	What's Up Doc ? is a pretty amusing , if not hilarious , cartoon from director Robert McKimson about Bugs Bunny's rise in show biz . As a child , he learns to play Franz Lizst on the piano . Then as an adult , he starts in the chorus in various musical revues . Bugs blows his big chance , however , when his solo act only gets crickets chirping ( a familiar cartoon gag for when a performer bombs ) . Down on his luck , he sits on a park bench with Al Jolson , Jack Benny , Eddie Cantor , and Bing Crosby when headliner Elmer Fudd walks by . Fudd rejects everybody as they do their trademark cues except Bugs . Bugs is basically a stooge to Elmer so he switches punchlines in New York which causes an angry Fudd to get a rifle in the wabbit's face making Bugs say , " What's Up Doc ? " for the first time . As he notices the audience eat it up , he tells Elmer to say it again . He does and the applause gets louder ! That leads to their first screen test at Warner Bros . where Bugs sings " What's Up Doc ? " with Elmer singing and dancing along at the end . Having told all this to a female reporter , Bugs looks at his watch and says he's due on the set for his next starring role . As the curtain with his initials goes up , we see him singing and dancing with . . . those same chorus boys he performed earlier with in his career ! Like I said mostly amusing if not hilarious though I loved many of the jokes that Elmer and Bugs did in the vaudeville segments . And the celebrity voices done mostly by Mel Blanc were spot on . Anyone who saw the live-action What's Up , Doc ? that starred Barbra Streisand and Ryan O'Neal should be very familiar with the " What's Up Doc ? " number since that sequence appeared at the end of that movie . This short is part of Volume one of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection .
Border Incident was one of the late Ricardo Montalban's more compelling movies	With the death of Ricardo Montalban still fresh from a few weeks ago , I thought I'd check from my local library a DVD of one of his more dramatically compelling movies he made for his contracted studio , M-G-M . Directed by Anthony Mann just before his legendary streak of James Stewart westerns in the following decade , Border Incident has a sort of western feel as it tells the story of a couple of agents , one U . S . and one Mexican , trying to protect Mexican immigrants from being exploited and beaten to death in this country . Both Montalban and George Murphy-who's usually a song-and-dance man-are very compelling in their straight roles . As the villains , Howard Da Silva and Charles McGraw also bring their subtle creepiness to somewhat charismatic effect ( well , Da Silva anyway ) . And James Mitchell brings his own charm as one of the migrant workers Montalban tries to help . There's also a naturalistic documentary feel in the beginning and end that make this somewhat realistic for the era which is also achieved by rare uses of the music score throughout . If you've only known Mr . Montalban as Mr . Roarke on " Fantasy Island " or as Khan on the " Star Trek " episode " Space Seed " not to mention Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan , you'll probably be wonderfully surprised by his heroic role here . With that , I highly recommend Border Incident .
Timmy's Wish is one irreverent short comedy	Just watched this pretty blasphemous but also funny short on atomfilms . com . In a nutshell , Timmy , after getting sent to his room for not finishing his dinner because it has Brussel sprouts and liver , prays to Jesus that he wishes his parents were dead . Guess what happens ? The Jesus character is played by the director as someone with an attitude who swears and smokes and lets the boy partake in some vices . That is until he sees . . . Oh , just watch this short and judge for yourself if you get offended at what is depicted here . As a Catholic , I wondered why the son of God acted the way he did but then I decided this was one of those be-careful-what-you-wish-for suspense parodies that was meant to be taken with a grain of salt . So on that note , I'm cautiously recommending Timmy's Wish .
Capital P is scarily amusing depiction of a child's imagination	We see child like drawings of house , sun , hose , and bed . At bed , a child is wetting it with hose . House comes alive and says to child , " Don't wet your bed ! " Child wakes up . Just a dream . He rushes through the dark hallway , scared until he turns on the light . He finds the bathroom and sits on the toilet . As he waits , it is thundering outside so the lightning frightens him ! After he's done , he hurries through the darkened hallway and goes back to bed . Imaginary house reappears and asks , " Did we forget to flush ? " Child wakes up astonished as he dreads going back to bathroom . The end . Amusingly scary cartoon that explores a child's active imagination from Canadian Stephen Barnes . This was a worthy entry from Volume 5 of The International Tournee of Amimation videocassette .
Generalissimo was another quite funny episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , a bunch of white male investment bankers recently laid off are now interns and have roped Tracy Jordan into some all-nighters which is ironic since Jordan quickly gets tired of them , Jack has a hard time impressing Elisa's grandmother because of his resemblance to the villain in her favorite telenova , and Liz checks out mail accidentally left in her apartment and finds out the owner is a handsome doctor just moved to her floor . . . What a hoot to see Alec Baldwin play both Jack and this soap actor with mustache . And this is the first of several eps to have " Mad Men " actor Jon Hamm playing this doctor Liz is smitten with . Not quite as hilarious as previous episodes but there's still some entertaining gems of humor like those concerning " roofies " ! I especially loved Liz ' villainous cackle as she starts acting just like that telenova villain . Next episode takes place on Valentine's Day so until next time . . .
Prosperity Blues is a Krazy Kat cartoon from the Depression that seems relevant to today's times	Just watched this Depression-inspired Krazy Kat cartoon on Uncle John's Crazy Town blog . In this one , Krazy is selling apples for 5 cents though he doesn't seem successful until he sees a limousine . . . then we find out that car has his chauffeur also selling apples ! Not to worry , a customer then buys a couple and gives Krazy a check which he attempts to cash in but the bank he goes to is abandoned with cobwebs all over the place . So when he goes back to the customer , that customer then takes back the check and then plants a fake smile on Krazy who is now so happy he sings " Smile , Darn Ya , Smile " and plants other fake smiles on various peoples and inanimate objects . Then everyone , including buildings and Uncle Sam , starts singing " Happy Days are Here Again " as the whole nation seems to be in a state of perpetual happiness . . . There are a few other funny gags like a bone dropping from the sky which every dog character attempts to get but only one particular one does as we see him put it in a safe . . . with other bones ! Also , Krazy has one customer who has a mouse in his purse that just licks the apples and that's it ! The mice here look just like Mickey so Walt Disney might have sued former employer Charles Mintz if he watched this cartoon ! The whole thing has a surreal Max Fleischer-quality about it and those creepy slapping of smiles might have scared some of the grouches in the audience . With today's economy threatening another Depression , Prosperity Blues seems especially suitable for the times . So on that note , this cartoon is highly recommend for ' 30s animation buffs .
Ken Burns ' Huey Long is interesting documentary of Louisiana political figure	Having grown in Baton Rouge , La . most of my life and visited the State Capitol , as a kid on a school field trip , where Huey Long was shot , I was very interested in seeing Ken Burns ' documentary Huey Long despite airing on WLPB ( our local PBS affiliate ) opposite CBS ' Two and a Half Men and The New Adventures of Old Christine as well as NBC's Heroes ( shows I usually watch or tape around this time ) . As with many of Burns ' subsequent films , Huey Long explores the state governor and senator's life through many still photos of his and Louisiana's history in the early 20th century . There's also many talking heads of various citizens of Louisiana , rich and poor , pro - and anti-Long , including Long's son Senator Russell Long , and Robert Penn Warren , whose book " All the King's Men " was a thinly veiled bio of Governor Long . Many of Long's exciting speeches have also been preserved here . Balance is provided of Long's good and bad points . But without him , Louisiana might have been worse off without the new school textbooks for all the undereducated kids he helped provide or the paved roads and bridges he helped build . So for anyone interested in the life and career of one of the most colorful figures in both Louisiana and American politics , I highly recommend Ken Burns ' Huey Long .
Max Fleischer's The Puzzle is another charming " Out of the Inkwell " series entry	As Max Fleischer goes to his drawing board , he doodles some squares with fragments of pictures in each one . When he arranges them , they become various animals or people until he does one that becomes Ko-Ko the Clown . Max gets the clown to sit on a chair before putting some more puzzle shapes on the board which he allows the clown to play with . However , Ko-Ko just kicks them around so Max draws rope around him and puts wheels on the chair so the clown can get out of his way . It's at this point that Ko-Ko goes to a bridge , a maze , and Puzzle Town where he goes to a hall of mirrors . After going back to where Max is assembling the puzzle pieces , Max draws a cave with the words " This Way Out " on them but Ko-Ko goes inside with the puzzle box making Max go in the cave himself . Big mistake as Ko-Ko goes back out with box and closes the door trapping Max inside ! So while Max tries to get out of the cave with various drawings inside , Ko-Ko assembles the puzzle pieces . A big surprise happens after that but I won't reveal what . . . This was another of Fleischer's " Out of the Inkwell " entries made during the silent era that I watched on YouTube . Another charming piece of early animation that should provide plenty of charms for anyone interested in vintage filmaking . I truly was pleasantly surprised by how this short ended . So for all that , I highly recommend The Puzzle .
House of Hashimoto is an unique entry in the Terrytoons canon	Having just seen this on YouTube , House of Hashimoto is one of the more unusual cartoons to come from the usually conservative Terrytoons . In fact one of the writers , Bob Kuwahara , is Japanese . So this story of an invisible mouse who defeats a " giant cat " seems to have a genesis in Asian legend . It's certainly fascinating to see such a non stereotypical view of another culture from an American cartoon from the late ' 50s . The title character tells this story to an American mouse friend who's a newspaper reporter looking for an angle . He leaves because he doesn't think the readers will believe what Hashimoto tells him . The ending will be surprising to anyone except those who are familiar with various folk tales . Worth a look for any animation fans . P . S . Ralph Bakshi was one of the animators .
Red Hot Music was one entertainingly jazzy Terrytoons short	Here's another animated cartoon I watched on Uncle John's Crazy Town blog . It's a Terrytoon starring Kiko the Kangaroo . Who you ask ? This was an animal character that originated in the Farmer Al Falfa series . In this one , Kiko is a fire fighter who's called to douse the flames of Station KIKO which has a literally hot jazz band playing in the building . The instrumental music provided is highly enjoyable throughout and is accompanied by some amusing gags like taxis dancing or some notes literally moving on air . The Kiko character didn't really have much of a personality to last long in the Paul Terry staple like later characters like Mighty Mouse or Heckle and Jeckle but in cartoons like this , he got showcased in some of the best black-and-white ones the company made in the ' 30s . So on that note , I highly recommend Red Hot Music , .
" Family Portraits : The Marx Brothers " is an affectionate tribute from the children of their famous fathers	Narrated by AMC's host Bob Dorian , this program showcased family members of The Marx Brothers . Among them who appeared on camera were Susan Fleming ( Harpo's wife ) , Bill Marx ( Harpo's son ) , Minnie Marx ( Harpo's daughter ) , Maxine Marx ( Chico's daughter ) , and Miriam Marx ( Groucho's daughter ) . This show was divided into three segments . On Harpo , we see home movie footage of him without his wig and costume . In fact , he's really quite bald here with brown hair on the back but his expressions and movements are unmistakably Harpo's with the playfulness he displays with his wife and kids . On Groucho , there's plenty of stills of him with his first two kids , Arthur and Miriam , and his first wife and their mother , Ruth , who was revealed to be somewhat of an alcoholic . We also see some film clips of other daughter , Melinda , as both child and young adult singing both solo and with her father . And on Chico , there are plenty of stills of him with Maxine and her mother . His taking over management of his team from mother Minnie and his compulsive gambling is also mentioned here but in mostly forgiving terms by his daughter . Loved seeing Harpo's clown painting displayed here and his son Bill mentioning playing piano at Groucho's various parties during the latter's final days . All in all , a very affectionate tribute to the Marx children's fathers as they were off-screen . Well worth seeing for Marx Brothers fans .
The Mayflower Voyagers is a fine informative first episode of " This Is America , Charlie Brown "	Though Thanksgiving was three days ago , I had to at least watch this first episode of " This Is America , Charlie Brown " miniseries-which was a bonus feature on the " A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving " DVD-before November turned into December . As Charlie Brown narrates about the Pilgrims ' voyage from England , we see him and the rest of the Peanuts gang suffer with the adults during the weeks-long sea trip . I'll stop there and just say what an entertaining and educational animated show this is with much of Charles Schulz ' humor intact involving his kid characters along with dog Snoopy and bird Woodstock . Lucy , of course , is her normal bossy self who's not above occasionally touting her feminine wiles while Peppermint Patty and Marcie provide their own humorous give-and-take concerning a snake in the forest . Then there's the round headed kid's worrying contrasted with Linus ' belief in faith that gives the viewers the various feelings about the passengers ' wonderment of whether the trip to leave their home country was worth it . This is highly recommended to Peanuts fans , especially those kids who would otherwise probably avoid learning history which they'd possibly dismiss as something from a boring textbook .
Bugged by a Bee was one of the funnier of the latter-day Warner Bros . cartoons	Just watched this latter-day Warner Bros . Looney Tunes cartoon on YouTube as linked from the Misce-Looney-ous blog . It stars a now-forgotten character named Cool Cat who's voiced by Larry Storch , the star of Warner Bros . Television's " F Troop " ( whose music scorer is the same here-William Lava ) . Cool Cat is a college student who wants to outscore the Big Man on Campus in athletics . With the help of a bee that keeps stinging his tail , he . . . well , watch the short . Directed by Bob McKimson ( yes , that's how he's credited here ) , that bee provides most of the laughs from me in this not-so-limited animation short as there are some movements of Cool Cat that are pretty hilarious if I do say so myself . With this being one of the last of the WB theatrical cartoons in regular production , I'd recommend Bugged by a Bee to any Warner cartoon completist out there . . .
Pluto's Christmas Tree is a very enjoyable Walt Disney Christmas cartoon	Just went on YouTube and rediscovered this classic cartoon from Walt Disney starring Mickey Mouse , Pluto , and Chip ' n ' Dale that I first saw on " The Wonderful World of Disney " on December 25 , 1977 when the episode was the all-animated " From All of Us to All of You " . In this one , Mickey and his dog live in a cabin near the tree that the chipmunks reside in . C ' n ' D have some mischief with the yellow dog before master Mickey chops their tree down . Since the mouse is oblivious to the little rodents , Pluto risks trouble in pursuing them . . . Directed by usual Donald Duck helmer Jack Hannah , Pluto's Christmas Tree shows nice timing in many visual gags especially of the chase variety though they do pale somewhat compared to the kinds of pacing that abound in the Warner Bros . and M-G-M cartoons of this period . Still , it's enjoyable enough and well worth seeing for Walt Disney enthusiasts of all kinds .
See the hilarious unrestrained Ritz Brothers in Hotel Anchovy	Of all the comedy teams that ended up in the movies in the 1930s , Jimmy , Harry , and Al-The Ritz Brothers-were probably the most unrestrained ever and are probably not as appreciated as a result . In Hotel Anchovy-a short made for the low-budget comedy short studio with the ironic name of Educational-their film debut , they are a manager , bellhop , and detective trying to keep customers from checking out so they can get all the money that's coming to them without fear of losing some of it as the female owner tries to sell the title hotel to a couple of bidders . The brothers Ritz run rampant as they insult various guests , confuse the bidders , and keep running into a suicidal man who keeps failing ! Most of the really funny frantic stuff with the bidders are at the end and , boy , what energy they have here ! This is probably where Sid Ceasar and Mel Brooks got their inspiration so for that we fully thank them !
The Haunted Ship is an entertaining early Van Beuren talkie cartoon	The Haunted Ship is an early talkie Van Beuren cartoon . It depicts a couple of humanized cats-one tall , one short-flying a plane when thunder and lightning hits causing their plane to fall in the ocean . They encounter various skeletons-like that of Davy Jones-and many fish and turtles . Four of those turtles drunkenly sing , " Sweet Adeline " . Another turtle becomes an accordion for the tall cat to play . Entertaining mix of music and scares makes for a very fascinating cartoon of the early ' 30s . I think the cat duo was meant to be a precursor of the later human Tom and Jerry characters that were Van Beuren stars a year or so later . Well worth checking out for animation buffs .
" Rudolph's Shiny New Year " was a nice sequel to the previous Rankin / Bass claymation special	Just finished this , the sequel to Rankin / Bass ' " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " . With Red Skelton as narrator Father Time as well as the Baby Bear , Frank Gorshin as the knight Sir Ten-To-Three , Morey Amsterdam as the caveman-O . M . ( One Million ) , Hal " Great Gildersleeve " Peary as the whale Big Ben , Paul Frees as various voices , Don Messick as Papa Bear , Iris Rainer as Mama Bear , and , returning as Rudolph , Billie Mae Richards . Written once again by Romeo Muller , " Rudolph's Shiny New Year " is a wonderful Tall Tale about how the reindeer with the shiny nose managed to make sure that it didn't become December 31st forever . Even as an adult , I was enthralled by the way Muller kept making things up as the story went along and didn't care a lick about logic or stuff like that as long as it was still believable . Although when Red said this story took place just after the events in the previous special , I did question why Rudolph's antlers had shrunk to when he was a kid . Other than that , I still highly enjoyed " Rudolph's Shiny New Year " . P . S . I just found out Frees and Amsterdam were born in the same city as I , Chicago , Ill .
Post War Inventions is a very funny outing from Paul Terry	Gandy takes Sourpuss to a place that has a pill that becomes instant dinner when water is added ( as Sourpuss finds out when he takes several of the pills with water and throws all of them up ! ) , has a kitchen that has an automatic pie maker ( which the cat ends up in ) , has an instant machine that cuts hair ( and leaves the cat bald ) , has a television set that has a lovely lady singing ( and just as Sourpuss starts to kiss her , Gandy turns to the fights and one of the fighters gets off the screen and beats the cat ! ) , and a robot butler . Then they wake up . . . Highly funny outing from Terrytoons made just as World War II was ending . Well worth seeking out for any animation fan of Paul Terry and his output .
Goopy Geer is another entertaining Merrie Melodies cartoon from Harmon-Ising	Goopy Gear is the title character in this Merrie Melodies cartoon from Hugh Harmon-Rudolf Ising Productions in association with Leon Schlesinger and distributed by Warner Bros . He is a piano-playing dog who plays while the customers dance . There's the gorilla waiter who I just saw in Lady , Play Your Mandolin ! Same goes for that alcohol-drinking horse who sees his reflection in the mirror and some hallucinations there as well ! My favorite gag in here is when the waiter orders some soup and the chicken swims in it for a while before it is served ! Loved the keys-playing sequences the best . Worth a look for anyone interested in early animated cartoons from Warner Bros .
Fat and Lean Wrestling Match is Melies ' cartoonish version of wrestling	We see two women covering themselves with blankets . When they uncover themselves , they are now two men . These two men start to wrestle . One of them manages to throw the other around . The other one then literally knocks his head off as well as his arms , legs , and feet ! He then puts the dismembered parts together when he places the body together on the bench . The women come back to take the men away from the screen . Two different men appear who are much bigger . The bigger of the big manages to flatten the other one like a pancake . After the flattened one comes back to normal , he throws the other one up before that other one lands back on him ! They wrestle a little before the less heavy of the big men manages to pin him down and jump on him , causing his arms , legs , and head to disassemble on impact ! After he leaves , the disassembled man assembles and walks out of screen . The end . It is here that Georges Melies takes a popular fairground sport and gives it a cartoonish feel on film . It certainly should be fascinating to today's wrestling fans who think wrestling was invented only recently !
The Scarlet Pumpernickel is an amusing parody of swashbucklers and studio pitches	In this one , Daffy plays himself as an actor tired of comedy roles so he pitches J . L . a script called " The Scarlet Pumpernickel " by Daffy Dumas Duck . The duck's the title character hoping to rescue the fair Melissa from the evil Porky Pig . The pig tries to get Sylvester to marry her to keep her from Daffy . Also involved is Elmer ( done for the first time by Mel Blanc instead of Arthur Q . Bryan ) and the Mama Bear from Chuck Jones ' Three Bears cartoons . Nice humorous touches throughout with Daffy , especially , in fine form . I noticed Sylvester doesn't have any whiskers here . Essential viewing for any Jones fan or anyone who loves animated spoofs of old movies .
The Blow Out was an interesting early Tex Avery cartoon featuring Porky Pig	The Blow Out was an early Warner Bros . cartoon that was the second made by " supervisor " Fred " Tex " Avery as director . It also starred Porky Pig in his early incarnation with original voice Joe Dougherty ( who stuttered in real life ) . Other voices featured were Sara Berner who was later gossipy switchboard operator Mabel on " The Jack Benny Program " , and Lucille La Verne who later voiced the Queen on Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs . She voices the bomber here . Porky is a kid here trying to buy an ice cream soda but finds he's five pennies short . So when he accidentally picks up a misplaced item from a passerby , he gets awarded one cent . After this gets repeated a few times , the pig finds the bomb-which he thinks is just an ordinary clock-and proceeds to give it back to the one who dropped it who of course keeps running away . Soon the cops follow . You may be able to guess what happens from here on but I'm not going to tell you . Needless to say , the ending is one you've probably expected from Tex Avery if you're familiar with his subsequent cartoons for both Warner Bros . and M-G-M . On that note , I definitely recommend The Blow Out .
Speedy Gonzales gave us the " fastest mouse in all Mexico " as we know him today	Despite the title , this is Speedy Gonzales ' SECOND appearance , after Robert McKimson's Cat-Tails for Two . This is , however , his first time in the costume and design we know him from . In this short , after another mouse gets done for in trying to get cheese past the guard-Sylvester , Speedy accepts the challenge . The red-nosed cat is ready for the " fastest mouse in all Mexico " but gets defeated at every turn . This Oscar-winning cartoon from Friz Freling gives us another classic Warner Bros . character that lasts for decades despite some PC controversy that almost got Speedy gone for good . Turns out many Hispanics consider Mr . Gonzales a hero for his exploits and don't find anything offensive about him . I certainly don't and I never understood why anyone would either . Anyway , while I don't consider this a great cartoon , it's certainly another highly enjoyable outing from Mr . Freling .
Heroes : Nothing to Hide slowly provides some details to main characters	Peter dreams of his former patient Charles Deveraux from when he was a nurse and tells him he can fly . He then wakes up and hears knocking . It's his girlfriend and Deveraux's daughter , Simone . She tells him her father died a few hours ago . Meanwhile , Peter's brother Nathan is having brunch with a reporter at his mansion with his mother and his wife who is confined to a wheelchair and has been for about six months . Peter comes in and embellishes a story about how his brother went to Vegas to find a female doctor to treat Peter's " mental illness " to explain reporter's question of Nathan's time with a woman there . That woman , Niki , wakes up from her defeat at the hands of her ex-husband who knocked her out by phasing through her . She calls Nathan for help in finding her son but Nathan declines . She then goes to a friend who she tells about her alter ego . It's about this time that her ex is on the road with their son when he arrives at a scene of a crash where there's some fire involved . Hiro and Ando also arrive . As the ex phases through a car door to save an unconscious passenger and then carries it out , Hiro stops time to save the ex from getting killed in the explosion . Afterwards , all go their separate ways . Matt the cop is assigned plainclothes to help in a case involving comatose bodies . Despite some of his mind not working properly , he does well enough to get another chance on a detective exam . Unfortunately , in reading the mind of the man who tells him about this he also finds out this man's been fooling around on his wife and punches him out ! In Texas , Claire's friend has found the tape of Claire's quick recovery from accidents in his bedroom so no need to worry about anybody finding out . However , Claire's little brother finds it and plays it on his computer just as Claire finds out . Little brother runs with Claire and friend after him and locks himself in the family van . Claire explains to sibling why she doesn't want parents to find out as brother finally unlocks door and gives Claire back tape . Finally , as Niki's ex and son Micah arrive at motel at night , Micah , alone , goes to an out-of-order pay phone and , as he touches it , miraculously gets phone to work as he calls his mother . Niki answers as her bad self startling Micah who asks for her real mother . The bad self , who identifies herself as Jessica , mentions some terms of which Niki comes back just when the ex comes over to Micah . As Micah hangs up phone his dad asks who it was . Macah answers that he was just pretending to call and , sure enough , as the ex takes the phone it is once again out of order . . . Not too much action but still compelling as we see revelations of Nathan's family life for the first time here . Nice intro of Rena Sofer as his wife . Loved her since I first saw her as Bonnie Haines in Ed . Also worth mentioning is the original Shaft , Richard Roundtree , as the bedridden Charles Deveraux . Quite effective in his all-too-brief scene , both here and in the first episode . Almost didn't recognize him without his mustache ! Overall , an intriguing episode that should provide more excitement for next week .
Sun Valley Serenade provides a hot number with Dorothy Dandridge and the Nicholas Brothers	In honor of Black History Month , I've been writing reviews of movies that African-Americans , in front and behind the camera , have been involved on in chronological order . So we're now in 1941 with Sun Valley Serenade . In a brief specialty number at the end of Glenn Miller's " rehersal " of " Chattanooga Choo Choo " , The Nicholas Brothers-Fayard and younger sibling Harold-tap dance up a storm after first doing some steps and singing with Dorothy Dandridge in her only appearance with her future husband ( Harold ) and his brother . They're the coolest thing in the picture and it's a shame that because of some Southern theatres ' resistance of black performers appearing with their white counterparts in the same scene ( unless they appeared in domestic or chauffeur / doorman / porter roles ) that that's their only appearance here . Otherwise , it's a mostly entertaining movie with John Payne providing some excellent physical comedy near the end , Milton Berle being his amusing wisecracking self , Miller playing his great classics with his band before disappearing in a plane during the war after finishing another picture , Sonja Henie as the refugee from Norway doing some pretty good acting for a skater , and Lynn Bari , who while her role as Payne's first love takes a back seat after Henie appears , does the best she can with the material she's given . Love the song she mouthed to in the beginning . Maybe the last skating number by Henie was a bit much but it was still enjoyable . So , all in all , I highly recommend Sun Valley Serenade . P . S . The porter that Berle talked to after Joan Davis ' first appearance was Fred " Snoflake " Toones who I just saw in The Green Pastures .
Betty Boop and the Little King was another entertaining Max Fleischer cartoon	After Van Beuren decided not to renew their contract with King Features Syndicate for their comic strip , " The Little King " , Max and Dave Fleischer decided to try Otto Soglow's creation as a potential star for their series by testing him with their star Betty Boop . Here , his majesty and his queen are at the opera which the king is bored of to death . So he goes further down the street ( where we see the wonderful tabletop 3-D backgrounds the Fleischers were starting to use at this time ) to see Ms . Boop in a cowgirl outfit with horse in tow . In no time at all , the king sells pretzels and performs with Betty and the horse . I'll stop there and say how funny and entertaining this animated short was . The only demerit here is the voice used for this childlike king but that's it . So on that note , I highly recommend Betty Boop and the Little King .
Circus Capers is interesting early sound Aesop's Fables cartoon	If you've read the summary then you pretty much know what happens in Circus Capers . I'd like to comment on some of the animation . At the beginning , there is a group of trombone players whose instruments get elongated as they go forward . Next , there are a couple of elephants who each dance with a tambourine attached to their right legs . After that are a couple of giraffes clog-hopping forward . Then come the main characters : The " Mickey " - like clown and " Minnie " - like bare back rider . As the summary revealed , however , this " Minnie " is a two-timer who deserved what she got in the end ! Good for you , " Mickey " ! This is another Aesop's Fables cartoon produced and directed by John Foster and Harry Bailey after creator Paul Terry left Van Beuren to form Terrytoons . While this is a bit slow moving , it does entertain throughout and has a very satisfying ending when after " Mickey " blew his raspberry to " Minnie " , he moves his head forward for a close-up and winks as we iris out . If you're an animation buff who's interested in seeing early sound cartoons , Circus Capers is well worth checking out !
Bird-Brain Bird Dog was a pretty hilarious end to M-G-M's Barney Bear theatrical cartoon series	Until Filmation revived him as well as Droopy for their " Tom and Jerry " show on Saturday Mornings on CBS in the ' 80s , this would be the last appearance of Barney Bear anywhere in any cartoon series for a while . Here he's looking for a dog to hunt birds . Unfortunately for him , the dog he bought is a member of a bird lovers club as evidenced by his being surrounded by a cheerful aviary . So when this dog encounters one in the forest , he plots with him to play tricks on Barney who keeps getting shot in the head or butt . Directed by Dick Lundy , this was a very funny way for this M-G-M cartoon series starring this bumbling bear to end . So on that note , I highly recommend Bird-Brain Bird Dog .
The Scoundrel's Wife ( or Home Front ) was a nice regional drama from Louisiana filmmaker Glen Pitre	After checking this out of the East Baton Rouge Parish Library a couple of weeks ago , I finally watched Cut Off native Glen Pitre's The Scoundrel's Wife ( or as printed in the movie proper-Home Front ) with my parents . My dad was bored and left partly through but me and my mom stayed for the whole thing and both enjoyed it . Tatum O'Neal plays Camille Picou , a widow during World War II who's ostracized in her community that's the same as the director's because of something she and her late husband did during the ' 30s . Her teen children Florida ( Lacey Chabert ) and Blue ( Patrick McCullough ) don't find out what until the end . Meanwhile , a doctor from Germany ( Julian Sands ) has arrived and takes care of many other men from there as they arrive from U-boats wounded and sick . That doesn't sit will with many of the residents including a Coast Guard Ensign ( Jack Burwell , played by Eion Bailey who I just found out lost the Batman role to Christian Bale for Batman Begins years ago ) who is under pressure to make an arrest . I'll stop right there and mention that Pitre the director takes enough time with his and wife Michelle Benoit's screenplay to figure out who's with who and how times were in the Pelican State during the early ' 40s . There's also an amusing turn by Tim Curry as the local priest also originally from Germany who likes to drink . Many fine performances abound in this regional drama and besides McCullough who's from Metairie , other Louisiana natives acting in this production are Michael Arata ( Coast Guard Commander ) who was born in New Orleans and John McConnell ( Dance Hall Owner ) who was born in my now hometown of Baton Rouge and has a radio show in New Orleans . Wonderful location shots of Lafourche Parish and Lockport flow through the movie . This is the third movie written by Pitre that I've seen , the others being Belizaire the Cajun and Hurricane on the Bayou which I saw at the IMAX theatre in the Cresent City . For anyone interested in Louisiana period flavor , I highly recommend The Scoundrel's Wife ( a . k . a . Home Front ) .
Teacher's Pest is another fascinating Famous entry from the ' 40s-'50s	I had originally mistaken this for a Baby Huey cartoon since a VHS tape I owned had put this title on it . Now I can say that Teacher's Pest is actually a Famous Studios Noveltoons starring a one-shot character named Junior , a little kid owl with glasses . He mother wakes him for his first day in school . Among his ancestors she shows him are NepOWLean , and Night Owl ( " The Black Owl of the family " ) . On his way , Junior encounters a sleeping wolf . When wolf wakes up , Junior says , " I can't let you eat me right now since I have to go to school . " Wolf gets the idea to switch signs that says " School " on one side and " Wolf's House " on the other . Wolf then disguises his house and himself waiting for the little owl . Junior almost goes the RIGHT way before the wolf grabs him and welcomes him as he prepares his kettle and locks his door . Then he hears the mother knocking ! As she is let in she sees the boiling pot with Junior in it and gets smart . Junior runs but his mom is stuck so he runs back and beats the wolf to a pulp as the cartoon ends with him singing , " Though I'm just starting kindergarten / I'll be graduating soooon " . . . This was a pretty bizarre and hilarious cartoon that may be a little intense for anyone under 6 but should probably provide some ghoulish chuckles for anyone older than that . When I first saw this on a bargain basement VHS tape years ago , I was amazed how good the print actually was ! It actually looked brand new save for some skips in frames during the opening credits . And it had the original Paramount logo instead of the NTA or UM & M logo from other Famous cartoons . That's probably because this came out in 1950 since those other companies I mentioned owned the cartoons that came out before that . Anyway , this is well worth seeing for anyone interested in animation from this studio at this time . P . S . The line " So round , so packed , so fully stacked " heard in many of these vintage cartoons was from the radio commercials for Lucky Strike cigarettes . I'm guessing they provided many laughs from theatrical audiences when these cartoons first came out .
Fritz Lang's Scarlet Street gets a fine performance from Robinson	Scarlet Street was one of the most interesting film noirs for me because of Edward G . Robinson's characterization of a meek man forced into crime instead of his usual tough guys . I loved an early scene he had with co-worker Samuel S . Hinds about inviting him to his house . That set the tone of what a nice man Robinson is here . Then he saves Joan Bennett from an attacker and they have a dinner where he lets her believe he's a wealthy painter instead of a clerk who just celebrated his 25th anniversary at his company with a gift watch . What he doesn't know was that her " attacker " was her boyfriend Dan Duryea who likes to slap her once in awhile . While you can see some twists come a mile away , the performances of the three leads and many of the supporting ones are so compelling that you're with them and director Fritz Lang every step of the way . Writer Dudley Nichols ' dialogue is so snappy with irony that while the whole thing is treated seriously you can't help but laugh at some scenes . I especially liked Durea's " For cat's sake , he's lying " at the end of his cross-examination after hearing Robinson's claiming he " copied " Katherine's ( Bennett ) paintings ! Good performances from the actresses playing Katherine's roommate and Robinson's wife Adele . Well worth seeking for film noir fans .
Gnothi Seauton is another pretty exciting episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	Having sent herself and the Connors ahead to 2007 by a computer that was hidden in a bank vault at the end of last week's episode , Cameron , after three days , now tells Sarah about getting new ID's . Sarah and Cameron go to an old friend named Enrique who tells them he's now retired and sends them to his nephew , Carlos . Carlos agrees to make the fake cards for $2000 . Meanwhile , tired of being a " statue " at home , John goes to a mall where he goes on computer to find about events that happened between 1999 and the current time but gets interrupted by an employee there before he finds out about his mother's death of cancer in 2005 . He does find out about Charlie Dixon , Sarah's fiancée , and sneaks into his house where Dixon's pleasantly surprised . John hits him before he can get any closer and leaves . Later , Charlie's wife asks him if he's all right . He says yes but his face reveals otherwise when she leaves . When the Connors and Cameron go to the safe to get the money , they hear footsteps . It's the " teacher " terminator from the previous episode ! They escape . After paying the money and getting their ID's , Sarah , knowing Spanish , overhears Carlos reveal his uncle as a rat . She goes back to Enrique who tells her he did not betray her . While she pointed her gun , it's Cameron who shoots from behind as Sarah cries over Enrique's dead body . It's later revealed from an FBI hidden recording that he lied to Sarah . . . Another exciting episode of " TTSCC " . Loved seeing Cameron do exact movements and attitude of a lady next to her as she stood outside while Sarah was dealing with Carlos . Also cool seeing her get knocked out by a car and thrown outside a window several stories down and then get back up several seconds later as if nothing happened ! And finding out that the wife of Charlie was also Penny of " Lost " from a TV Guide blog was another thing that was awesome ! Both episodes , while having some action , were slow in plot pace but next weeks preview shows the program should up the excitement considerably . So until next time . . . Update / 08-Correction : The terminator after the Connors and Cameron at the safe was not the teacher from the previous episode ( he was still in his skeletal phase with his head missing which he recovered here ) but a different one entirely . If the two out of five that didn't find my comment useful was because of that mistake , I now stand corrected .
The Turk is another compelling episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	While Cameron and John arrive for their first day in their new high school , they encounter a metal detector . After the third beep for Cameron each time she enters , John explains she has a large metal plate on her head so she's now let through without incident . Meanwhile , Sarah visits Mrs . Dyson as she visits her late husband , Miles ' , grave . Miles was responsible for creating Skynet that made the machines that destroyed the world in the future . He had also destroyed it in T2 . Sarah shows the widow some pictures . She recognizes one of them as an Andy who was an intern there . He now works in a cell phone store . When Sarah buys something there , he asks her out for dinner . After some hesitation , she accepts . At his house , among the items is a poster with the familiar robot hand playing chess . Andy explains that this robot is so advanced it has yet to be defeated by any human ! Elsewhere , the FBI agent has a female partner to contend with . Back at school , Cameron encounters some mean girls and after they leave overhears another girl crying about being insulted by some nasty things supposedly written about her on various doors and walls . After she leaves , Cameron tells John just before they find a crowd outside waiting for someone to jump off the school roof . It's the crying girl ! Unfortunately , it's too late to save her . Oh , and the terminator left for dead in the pilot episode manages , in heavily covered clothing , to write a math solution on a board of a scientist who agrees to help him try to solve it . That terminator already has the blood that's needed . . . Okay , while I've provided many of the plot points , I don't want to reveal too much if you want to be surprised by how it's going to end . I do like many of the humor that concerns the cyborg Cameron like her appearance in underwear at the beginning and Sarah's telling her not to kiss her " or anyone else " . Her encounters with the mean girls was also funny . There's also some grossly cool images at the end and I loved Sarah's final line in narration , " Now we are all sons of bitches ! " in quoting one of the atomic scientists from the ' 40s . Nice exposition episode . Should be even more exciting two weeks from now ! Until next time . . . P . S . The agent's partner is played by Catherine Dent , a native of the city I live in , Baton Rouge , La . , who I first saw as the Texas waitress in Steven Spielberg's mini-series , " Taken " .
Joe Dante's The Howling has plenty of scares throughout	Earlier this week , I saw An American Werewolf in London in its entirety for the first time in my life . Now I just saw another werewolf movie from 1981 from beginning to end in my first viewing : The Howling . With direction from Joe Dante and a script co-written by John Sayles , this flick was almost as awesome as the John Landis ' England-based comedy-horror pic . Dee Wallace , who would later be better known as the mother in E . T . , is fine as the television reporter who is recovering from an unpleasant encounter with a serial killer as she and her husband ( Christopher Stone ) take in a retreat in the woods with a community waiting there for them . Many effective werewolf transformation scenes abound although some may take so long that you want to laugh after a while . Still , good support from Robert Picardo , Dennis Dugan , Kevin McCarthy , Slim Pickens , Patrick Macnee , John Carradine , and in cameos , Roger Corman , Sayles , Forrest J . Ackerman , and frequent Dante regular Dick Miller as Walter Paisley , a name he first used in Corman's A Bucket of Blood . Great use of scares throughout up to the ironic finale . So give The Howling a try with maybe An American Werewolf in London as its second feature . . . P . S . Like AWIL , there's references to The Wolf Man with clips shown on a television screen and a picture of Lon Chaney , Jr . in a cabin somewhere .
Vick's Chip is an interesting appetizer of " Terminator : The Sarah Conor Chronicles " for the next and last episode of the season	This episode , Vick's Chip , was the first of a two-hour season finale to air . Derek finds the chip that Cameron took from the Terminator leaving Sarah and John expressing doubts about her intentions . Cameron declares she just wanted to find info about Vick that may provide more clues about how to destroy Skynet . So John watches on his computer screen the POV from Vick concerning his wife Barbara who was an employer in charge of a traffic system that led to the Skynet's creation . Since Barbara is later seen on the chip recording as being murdered , Sarah orders for her body's search in the woods . The corpse found there is not her but someone else who was against the renovations . Sarah and Derek go underground to try to sabotage the traffic lights but are caught by cops so they run for their lives . Later , Derek and John take Cameron's chip to the traffic source and successfully cause a jam delaying any possibility for Skynet to form . Oh , two more things here : Sarah reveals to Derek that she knows he murdered Andy and if he lies to her again she'll kill him and Cromartie , still disguised as an FBI agent named Laslo , is diverted in his search for John Connor by Cameron using John's friend as the one who identifies himself as his alias name . . . Pretty good if not great episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " that provided a nice backstory about this Vick and his attempts to get what he was ordered for before killing his " wife " when all was accomplished . Interesting contrast between Sarah who worries about people dying for their causes and Cameron who dismisses the corpse in the woods as " meat and bones " . With that , let's go on the the next episode . . .
Molly Shannon does a nice dramatic turn in Year of the Dog	Year of the Dog was one of two movies ( the other was The Black Book ) I chose to see at the about-to-close Regal Entertainment Group's ( previously United Aritsts ' ) Siegen Village 10 Theatre in Baton Rouge , La . , on its last day of operation of June 7 , 2007 . I went to the 1 : 45pm showing which had about maybe 7 or so people in attendance . What I saw was an interesting indie about a middle-age woman's emergence as an animal activist after the unfortunate death of her beloved dog , Pencil . Molly Shannon , best known for her comedic talents on SNL , brings a melancholy depth to her sad sack character as she grows out of her skin into a different person despite friends like Regina King and Laura Dern wanting her to stay the same . John C . Reilly is the next door neighbor who briefly dates Shannon after the dog's death . And Peter Sarsgaard is the dog trainer who gives Molly a new dog and helps her handle him . While all of the above characters have some amusing quirks only King and Reilly provide some genuine laughs . Shannon truly shows some dramatic chops here in the way she changes from meek to brave in the space of the more-than-90-minute running time . Reilly's change in what we perceive of him is one of the most funny scenes in the movie . It is refreshing to see Sarsgaard in a role different from his villainous role in Flight Plan ( I've also seen him host SNL ) . The pacing may be slow for some tastes but I liked it just fine . Not perfect but a compelling effort from writer / director Mike White .
Sixth episode of " The Big Band Theory " makes the show get better	As Leonard , Sheldon , Wolowitz ( Simon Helberg ) , and Koothrappali ( Kunal Nayyar ) go to their apartment after playing paint-ball , Penny invites them to her costume party . Before that begins , they all prepare dressing as The Flash . Since no one wants to look alike , Leonard dresses as Frodo , Koothrappali as Thor , Wolowitz as Robin Hood ( though he keeps getting mistakenly identified as Peter Pan ) , and Sheldon as the Doppler Effect ( though some think he's a zebra ) . While the party starts at 7 and they arrive at 7 : 05 , Penny tells them no one really arrives on time . As the night goes on , they still haven't talked to anybody else so they all , well at least Wolowitz and Koothrappali , separate while Sheldon and Leonard stick to each other . They find Penny talking to her old boyfriend so Leonard cuts in with his friend in tow . The ex and Leonard exchange words that threatens to become heated but Penny manages to put a stop to that . Later when drunk , Penny plants a big one on Leonard and confesses she thought her ex had changed . Leonard , not wanting to take advantage of Penny's condition , lets her go . Meanwhile , Koothrappali , who normally has trouble talking to a woman , gets lucky with someone who thinks he's a good listener ! . . . Another funny episode and it's nice to see L and S's friends have almost equal status in this Halloween special . With " The Big Bang Theory " getting better with each episode , I'm glad CBS gave this a full-season order . Will review again next week . . .
Fifth episode of " The Big Bang Theory " is another funny outing	Leonard , Sheldon , and their two friends are at Penny's restaurant playing a game that mixes Civil War generals with various sci-fi heroes . Penny tells them they have to order something or they'll get thrown out . Leslie , Leonard's lab partner , comes by and asks if he'll agree to play cello for her music group . He agrees . Once there , Leslie has to make obvious what her intentions are so Leonard doesn't get confused . Meanwhile , Sheldon asks Penny over to his place in order to get her to tell him what the tie on Leonard's door with music playing inside means . With Penny now knowing about Leonard and Leslie , Leonard makes his move on Leslie but she tells him she won't be available to him " until at least New Year's " . So a relationship is over before it really began . . . Another funny episode of " The Big Bang Theory " with the welcome return of Sara Gilbert as Leslie . Many funny double-entendres abound . Most of the best lines , as usual , come from Sheldon . Glad to know this show is doing well for the CBS Monday lineup . Will post another review next week . . .
Jack Frost is another funny episode of " Mystery Science Theater 3000 "	Okay , I just finished watching this American-dubbed version of the Russian-Finnish Jack Frost on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " on YouTube . The girl playing Nastenka was quite beautiful and is obviously the " Cinderella " character here but I thought this film was about Jack Frost , you know , the title character who doesn't even appear until the movie's almost over ? Good thing Mike and the ' bots are there to make fun of every boring and / or confusing scene that occurs . Too many riffs to mention here but there were several references to the " It's " character on " Monty Python's Flying Circus " including when we see a bunch of bearded men , " . . . a bunch of Michael Palin impersonators ! " LOL ! There's also a Yogi Bear reference concerning a bear character ( " . . . pic-nic basket . " ) and one of three famous fictional pigs ( " Wilbur ! Gordy ! Babe ! " ) when we see three such-looking animals being led on a leash . Also loved hearing Mike imitate the " Benny Hill Show " theme when trees start running in under-cranked speed . The film itself actually looked beautiful ( when it didn't get blurry ) so I'm thinking the original unedited version in its native language was probably artistically superior but this American-dubbed one does seem cheesy much of the time . Not all of the riffs were hilarious but there weren't too much dead spots either so , once again , this was another nearly excellent episode of " MST3K " .
The Battle of the Sexes is a departure from D . W . Griffith's usual fare	After years of doing period dramas like Broken Blossoms , Way Down East , and Orphans of the Storm , D . W . Griffith takes us to present day 20s with The Battle of the Sexes . A young blond curly-haired woman ( Phyllis Haver ) flirts with a married real estate developer ( Jean Hersholt ) in order to get some bonds from him . The developer had just celebrated his wife's ( Belle Bennett ) birthday with his teenage son ( William Bakewell ) and daughter ( Sally O'Neil ) . He tells his family he's working late . The children and mother decide to go to a nightclub . They catch their father with the blond woman inside said nightclub but leave before father catches them . Wife confronts husband about affair . They separate . Daughter later overhears blond woman talking to friend about how she only cares about father's money . I'll stop right here and just tell you how Griffith affectedly puts humor in some scenes like the father's attempts to lose weight , or the blond woman's attempt to attract father by positioning her shirt to show more cleavage . There's also a touching mother's birthday scene at the beginning , and near the end great scenes involving confrontations between father and daughter and blond woman and her real paramour ( Don Alvarado ) . If you only know Griffith as the director of the racist The Birth of a Nation , this is as far from that movie as you get from him . For D . W . Griffith completists and silent movie fans , I highly recommend you seek this one out !
Second episode of " Chuck " improves on the first	With this , the second episode of " Chuck " , the title character tries to keep a normal facade despite his now-frequent computer images planted in his brain . Agent Sarah now works at the Weinerlicious fast-food place next door in order to keep tabs on him . Agent John from another agency not associated with Sarah , now a co-worker with Chuck and his friend Morgan at Buy More , constantly warns him to stay away from her . A scientist contacted by both agents offers to examine Chuck's brain and later agrees to remove those images . As the doctor eventually drives away , an explosion happens . . . I'll stop right there and mention that the continuity from last week seemed almost seamless . I liked most everything that happened this episode like when a lot of young boys suddenly check into Weinerlicious to check out Sarah or the fights between her and John . And to see Ellie's boyfriend " Captain Awesome " get a first name , Devon . And how about Chuck's handling the helicopter finale ! Many good stuff here though I found the dinner scene a little uncomfortable and perhaps too contrived for my tastes . And next week should be even more exciting with Chuck on his first official assignment . Hope the ratings are strong enough for NBC to keep " Chuck " going for the entire season .
Isle of Forgotten Sins is a rousing low budget adventure from Edgar G . Ulmer	Isle of Forgotten Sins is one of those rarities I discovered at my local library . In this case , this was one of Edgar G . Ulmer's low-budget poverty row pictures he made for PRC . John Carradine and Frank Fenton are rivals for gambling club owner Gale Sondergaard but they put aside their differences for a chance to get sunken treasure . Ms . Sondergarrd and her girls ( which includes a crafty Veda Ann Borg ) come along but all of them seem to be pawns for Sidney " Charlie Chan " Toler and his partner Rick Vallin . Also briefly appearing is Bill Edmonds-Mr . Martini in It's a Wonderful Life-as the island chief . Enjoyably and breezily fast-paced ( whenever possible ) B-movie that benefits from Ulmer's expert direction and a suitable underscore by Leo Erdody ( who like me was born in Chicago , Ill . ) mixed in with some public domain classical music . The composer is billed by his last name here . If there's some quibble , it's how some scenes obviously reveal how some boat scenes use a toy model and the underwater ones reveal the diving suit , which is also a small plaything , being manipulated . Otherwise , great fun with even some singing from one of the girls not marring the storyline too much .
Chuck Verses the Alma Mater is another very good episode of " Chuck "	Ever since he got kicked out of Stanford , Chuck has been hesitant about going back there . So much so that he doesn't want to investigate his former professor who falsely accused him of cheating on his tests or see a football game with Awesome and his former frat buddies . But a library book - " The Fall of the Roman Empire " - from there that he has yet to return provides some numbers on the spine that Chuck figures plays into the case so he reluctantly goes . Meanwhile , at Buy More , Morgan plots to have new assistant manager Tang be less of a control freak . . . A very good episode of " Chuck " that explores , via flashbacks , his relationship with late roommate Brice and why he betrayed him in the end . Also loved the ways Chuck got to communicate with many so many college CIA recruits with a simple phrase on his cell as well as that Asian girl from Buy More brutally sexually teasing of Tang in order to get his keys . " Chuck " just keeps getting better with each episode ! Note : this being the week that NBC promotes the environmental uses of green , there's some mention and scenes of it during the pep rally and from Tang and a PSA during the show with Morgan and Casey .
Chuck Verses the Sizzling Shrimp is a very good episode of " Chuck "	As Chuck , sister Ellie , and Morgan go out on the town to a restaurant in Chinatown , Chuck sees an Asian woman that reveals to his computer brain that she plans to kill someone . Later , while Sarah and Casey try to stop her , Chuck sees the man that the woman plans to kill get out on his wheelchair . He helps him to his limousine just as that woman comes out and sees her tied-up brother taken to the trunk of the car . Chuck inadvertently allowed the villain to escape ! He vows to help her get her brother back with reluctant assistance from Sarah and Casey . Meanwhile , Ellie wonders why Chuck doesn't show up for " October Mother's Day " ( won't explain it here ) and Morgan is desperate to keep his job at Buy More . . . Lots of references to classic movies with my favorite line being the Star Wars one : " Help me , Charles Bartowski , you're my only hope ! " from Morgan . The wheelchair man named Lo Pan also appeared in Big Trouble in Little China with that name . Loved the way Morgan got some good scenes like when he seemed to help a beautiful lady customer who in turn offered her number then asked for it back when his fellow Buy More workers embarrassed him by saying not-so-good things about him . Or the one when he and Ellie bonded over Chuck's absences . And then there's the Buy More manager who , since Morgan's the Hispanic employee , says , " If you had quit , Afirmative Action would have been all over me . " This is the most smoothly run episode of " Chuck " yet ! Hope the ratings are good enough for NBC to give this series a full-season pickup . . .
Enchanted is a nice parody / tribute to fairy tales from Walt Disney Pictures	Walt Disney Pictures ' original animated / live-action musical comedy Enchanted is a mostly wonderful tribute / parody of various fairy tale films that made the company the most enchanting for family entertainment . Amy Adams is simply luminous as Giselle , the maiden who finds herself caught between James Marsden's Prince Edward from her animated life and Patrick Dempsey's Robert Phillip in the real New York one . Also featuring Susan Sarandon as the evil Queen Narissa and Timothy Spall as Nathaniel , her henchman . Then there's the chipmunk Pip , voiced by Jeff Bennett in Andalasia and the director Kevin Lima in New York when Pip can only communicate in chipmunk sounds . Finally , there's Idina Menzel as Robert's fiancée , Nancy , and six-year-old Rachel Covey as his daughter , Morgan . All players I've mentioned contribute wonderfully to this movie that lives up to its title . My favorite sequences , however , both involve Giselle when she sings her heart out in New York . The first involves when she calls to some animals to help clean Robert's apartment when he's gone and many of them are rats and roaches ! Then at Central Park when she starts singing to Robert about finding true love , he at first tells her to just keep walking then she encounters some Calypso musicians and they start joining in and then just everyone within walking distance do the same . Well , except Robert who insists he can't sing or dance ! The songs by Disney veterans Alan Menken and Stephen Schwartz move along at a breezy pace . Also nice to see previous animated Disney princesses Jodi Benson ( Ariel ) , Paige O'Hara ( Belle ) , and Judy Kuhn ( Pocohantas ) make cameo appearances and to hear Julie Andrews herself narrate . All in all , Enchanted is another Disney movie that should be entertaining enough for all ages who want that feel-good happy ending with some clever satire that makes , in the words of Andrews ' Mary Poppins character from that Disney picture , " the medicine go down " .
Winsor McCay's The Centaurs is fascinating even in fragments	I saw three versions of this on YouTube ( as linked from Google Video ) . One of them had a heavy metal score that seemed WAY unsuitable . Beautiful images of the forest and the half human-half horse figures that still makes one take his / her breath away some 86 years later . Would be nice to see if any other fragments have survived of this most fascinating film from the father of animation , Winsor McCay . As it is , it's still interesting to watch a young centaur couple try to get the approval of the older one and then have have a young boy who says " thank you " at the end . And thank you , Mr . McCay for all your contributions to the art of animation .
The Pink Panther Strikes Again is another hilarious Inspector Clouseau comedy	For once , here's a Pink Panther movie that follows the continuity of the previous one as former Chief Inspector Charles Dreyfus ( Herbert Lom , as always ) is still at the mental institution that he was committed to in The Return of the Pink Panther . It's now three years later and he's due to get out . Then Clouseau ( once again , Peter Sellers ) arrives . Guess what happens . The set pieces that follow are at their absolute hilarious best and while this movie entry of the series does seem more fantasy laden than others , it still has somewhat of a believable premise . Also great to once again see Francois ( Andre Maranne ) and especially Cato ( Burt Kwouk ) and to see Graham Stark as a hotel clerk who does the old " Does your dog bite ? " joke with Sellers to once again hilarious effect . This Pink Panther movie may be a little more dated than the others since there are depictions of then-President Ford ( Dick Crockett ) and then-Secretary of State Kissinger ( Byron Kane ) though it seems fitting that Ford is here since he has a reputation for doing falls ( which Crockett does here ) especially considering Chevy Chase's portrayal of him on " Saturday Night Live " during this time . One of the assassins is played by Omar Sharif-famous for Dr . Zhivago-and when a sexy spy played by Lesley-Anne Down mistakes him for Clouseau when sleeping with him in the dark , she falls for him when the real detective shows later ! Wonder if Sellers was really turned on when he saw Ms . Down's nude body like that because I certainly was ( and I wish I could have actually seen it ) ! Ditto goes for that bedroom scene at the end though it's unfortunate what happened afterwards ! Oh , and during Henry Mancini's theme on the animated opening credit sequence from Richard Williams Studio , we see The Inspector watching on a movie screen various classic movie scenes that all end with the Pink Panther being unmasked on them ! One of which happens to be " The Hills Are Alive " sequence from The Sound of Music that happened to star director Blake Edwards ' wife , Julie Andrews ! The end cartoon spoofs a more recent movie blockbuster that must have had the cinema audience at the time in stitches ! Nothing more to say except I highly recommend The Pink Panther Strikes Again . Next up , Revenge of the Pink Panther . . .
The Foghorn Leghorn is a classic starring the loud-mouth rooster	Once again , Henery Hawk is looking for a chicken to catch and once again , he doesn't know what a chicken looks like . When he sees his father looking at Foghorn Leghorn , the father , because he doesn't like his son tagging along , tells him he's not a chicken but a " snook " . Supposedly because his ego is deflated , Foghorn keeps trying to convince Henery he really is a chicken . Of course , there's also the Barnyard Dog he has to deal with . . . Seeing the Southern rooster make some awful puns always gets a smile from me and occasionally even a laugh and it's always great to see him and the Barnyard Dog play tricks on each other . While Henery also provides some amusement , I was glad when he was eventually jettisoned for some other supporting characters like Prissy and her intellectual son . Anyway , The Foghorn Leghorn is another classic from the Robert McKimson unit .
Black Tie is another funny episode of 30 Rock	While Liz and her staff are improvising " Yo Mama " jokes , Jack invites her to a prince's ball . He insists it's not a date . Liz accepts . Jenna finds out and asks if she can come . Liz declines . After hearing Pete talking to his kids on the phone , Tracy tries to get him to loosen up by bringing his " homies " to him . At the ball , Liz finds Jenna who got in by showing the guards one of her breasts . Jack finds his ex-wife there too . The prince is handicapped with legs that need fluids . I'll stop right there and just tell you this was one of the funnier episodes this season of this freshman comedy series . Great guest turns by Isabella Rossellini , Paul Reubens , and SNL cast member Will Forte . Tina Fey's reactions are some of the best in this episode . Jane Krakowski as Jenna is hilarious . And Scott Adsit's Pete finally has a story of his own in the series . Once again , to anyone who has not yet watched this show , I highly recommended it .
Rainn Wilson / Arcade Fire is one of the better SNL episodes	The cold opening of this February 24 , 2007 edition takes us to CNN where Wolf Blitzer ( Darrell Hammond ) is reporting on the Iraq War . The crawl at the bottom , however , keeps wanting to report on the Anna Nicole Smith case . " Anna ! Anna ! Anna ! " the crawl keeps saying as it moves . Ms . Smith's face then keeps appearing in place of Blitzer's who is now moving with the crawl as he says , " Stop ! " Rainn Wilson then appears with two fake Smith reports , the second time as he gets held up by a cameraman ! After cutting in to Larry King ( Fred Armisen ) , Hammond says , " Live From New York , It's Saturday Night ! " Wilson comes on stage and shows around the studio which suddenly turns into a parody of his series " The Office " with Kirsten Wiig looking and acting like Pam , Jason Sudeikis as Jim , Keenan Thompson as Stanley , Amy Poehler as Angela ( Wilson at this point hilariously becomes Dwight ) and producer Lorne Michaels doing Michael complete with " World's Funniest Boss " cup . Rashida Jones also appears as her character , Karen , from the series . First sketch after that has four men ( Wilson , Sudeikis , Bill Hader , and Will Forte ) at a bar listening to Loggin and Messina's " Everything's Gonna Be Alright " and recounting increasingly bizarre tales of what happened when they first heard that song . Wilson's tops them all when he mentions having anonymous sex in a bathroom and having " pee coming out of the other guy's ear " as the song was playing in the intercom . It ends in Pulp Fiction style with all four sticking up the bar . An SNL Digital Short has Rainn as an executive trying to cut corners with an increasingly bizarre group meeting with characters like invisible man and sub sandwich . Even Arcade Fire gets in the act ! The building their all in then gets demolished . Next is the Nuni sketch with Wilson and Wiig playing a magazine staff encountering a toast chair with mayonnaise , a disco ball chair that keeps spinning , and son Andy Samberg's cotton candy hair , beard , and lower body ! Yikes ! Then there's a police room ID sketch with Poehler and Mya Rudolph as the detectives trying to get peeper Wilson to find a criminal . He keeps asking to make more like he's peeping to no avail . In the end , Amy and Mya kiss while peeper watches behind a locked door . . . Next , Arcade Fire performs " Intervention " ending with a Pete Townshend-like guitar smashing finish . On Weekend Update , Amy mentions , " The British are leaving , The British are leaving ! " upon news they're taken out of Iraq . Judge Larry Sedlin ( Armisen ) cries about getting no respect . Prince William ( Andy Samberg ) vomits after finding out what fighting a war is about causing Seth to ad-lib " This always happens when Andy Samberg , uh , I mean Prince William comes here . " Following that three office workers ( Wiig , Forte , Wilson ) blandly discuss various oddities involving sex , drugs , and crime . We then get a commercial parody of Black Snake Moan with Keenan and Rainn . Next , a New Age music group trying to beat Eyna for the next award without falling apart . Finally , Arcade Fire performs " Keep the Car Running . " Most of the sketches worked because of Wilson's presence as he kept performing to the best of whatever character's ability . This was one of the better shows of the season . My favorite was " The Office " parody . Come back , Rainn , when you're next available .
Christmas Comes But Once a Year is a wonderful Fleischer Color Classic	You can tell a Max Fleischer cartoon by some of the backgrounds having a 3-D effect such as in Christmas Comes But Once a Year having a realistic looking exterior of an orphanage or the fluorescent umbrella Christmas tree at the end . In between those two images , we see the orphans getting presents that break down causing them to do the same . Grampy from the Betty Boop cartoons ( and his only appearance in color ) overhears the commotion and comes in to cheer them up by taking various appliances inside and making various toys out of them . He then dresses up as Santa and brings joy to them all . The end . For any lover of Fleischer , Christmas , and vintage animation , I highly recommend Christmas Comes But Once a Year .
Songs from the Labyrinth marks Sting's foray into centuries-old music	This special from PBS chronicles Sting's playing , performing , and recording the music of one John Dowland , a songwriter and musician from the 16th century . To perform the songs as they sounded then , Sting plays the lute and collaborates with Edin Karamazov , an expert on Dowland's music . We also get biographical information from a couple of historians , David Pinto and Anthony Rooley . And , yes , Sting performs throughout , either for an audience or in a yard somewhere . Near the end , he also gets a chorus with him . While I found most of the special fascinating , I was a little frustrated that I couldn't understand everything Sting was singing perhaps because the English language was slightly different then or maybe I am not too familiar with the songs to really decipher the meanings behind the words or feelings being described . Nevertheless , the special and the music was compelling and maybe I'll get the CD .
Below Zero is one of the early talkie Laurel and Hardy shorts	In this one , the boys are musicians who have trouble attracting customers for two hours . After they decide to move , Ollie finds out why when he looks at the building's name . At their next stop , one woman pays a dollar to " move a couple of streets " while others throw snowballs . Then there's a real large woman who puts a kibosh on the whole thing by throwing the instruments in the street . So with no means of getting paid , Stan discovers a wallet on the ground . Before a thug threatens to take that away from them , a cop arrests him and gets offered dinner from the grateful boys . I'll stop there and mention that with this being in the early talkie era , there's a minimum of dialogue between Laurel and Hardy as most of their humor is still visual with the gradual slapstick building in fine form throughout the first 10 minutes before the more dramatic part with the cop comes in . But there's one freak ending that Stan especially is fond of that ends this short hilariously . So on that note , I highly recommend Below Zero . P . S . Look for L & H regulars Blanche Payson , Tiny Sandford , Baldwin Cooke and Charlie Hall in their supporting parts .
Bosko's Party is a very entertaining Bosko short	I'm with the previous reviewer , this was a very entertaining short with plenty of gags and the wonderful musical number , " Suger , That's What I'll Name You " as sung by Honey . Loved the cat trying to get out of that flowerpot . Or the pig being too large to hide under the bed until Bosko takes a pin and " deflates " him enough to let him lower the bed . Or Honey getting dressed , recognizing the audience , hiding behind something as a mirror reflection still allows us to see her . Or the dog in the aquarium chased by Bosko . That dog is the same one that appears at the end with Bosko while he's saying , " That's all , folks ! " while the dog is barking . Is he a precursor to Bruno ? Anyway , worth a look for anyone looking for early Warner Bros . animation .
Fast Food Matador is spicily musical in tone	We begin in an abstract version of New York ( with an abstract version of the destroyed World Trade Center ) . Then we start hearing Latin-flavored music with a female group singing of a man surviving traffic like a bullfighter to deliver food to customers . They also sing about a bull driving a car and trying to defeat matador . Like I said , very abstract but highly entertaining . Very worthy entry in Volume 5 of The International Tournee of Animation . At the end is a disclaimer about how bullfighting is illegal in the US and that no bull was harmed during the making of film . For fans of musical animated shorts , I definitely recommend you seek this one out !
Hairspray is one of the most enjoyable movies I've seen this year so far	I tried to see this movie last week with my friend but it was sold out for the showing we went for so we ended up seeing I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry instead ( I gave that movie 6 stars for some good humor and mostly positive message concerning gays though I was turned off by some of the homophobia and Rob Schneider's Asian stereotyped character ) . Having seen Hairspray just hours ago , I have to say : This is one of the most entertaining movies I've seen this year so far ! Everyone in this cast deserves praise : John Travolta ( mostly successful as Edna Turnblad with her swaying hips and speaking voice , though it's obviously a male doing the singing on the songs . Dosen't matter , it's still enjoyable ) , Michelle Pfeiffer ( perfect as the ice-cold beauty who can't let go of her past ) , Christopher Walken ( always good to see him dance , which I've enjoyed since watching him on " Saturday Night Live " ) , Zac Efron , James Marsden ( a hoot as Corny Collins and now the second X-Man-after Hugh Jackman-who has great vocals ) , Amanda Bynes , Elijah Kelley , Queen Latifah ( Loved her in Chicago , love her here ) , Brittany Snow ( perfect contrast from one ' 60s dance role of Meg Pryor on " American Dreams " to here as Amber Von Tussle ) , Allison Janney , and , in her very first performance on film , Nikki Blondsky as social crusading optimistic dancer Tracy Turnblad . From " Good Morning Baltimore " to " You Can't Stop the Beat " , the music never stops completely and it keeps the energy going even through something as serious as a protest march which is handled well by Queen Latifah and her number ( " I Know Where I've Been " ) here . Both my friend and I enjoyed this movie so much , we both rated it a 9 . P . S . Loved the cameos by original movie Hairspray participants Jerry Stiller , Rikki Lake , and , especially , original writer / director John Waters .
The 31st Annual Kennedy Center Honors was a very classy awards show	Just finished watching this annual awards special which had the following honorees : actor Morgan Freeman , choreographer Twyla Tharp , surviving Who members Roger Daltrey and Pete Townshend , Country music singer George Jones , and singer / actress / director Barbra Streisand . Let me first mention some disappointments : When Denzel Washington mentions a " children's show " that Morgan appeared on in the ' 70s ( and they show a clip of ) , he neglected to mention the title : " The Electric Company " which entertained many children like myself when it aired on PBS from 1971-77 . Also , he didn't mention the first movie that got Freeman critical acclaim as well as his first Oscar nomination : Street Smart . Maybe that's because he played a pimp on that one . Not exactly the kind of role that inspires the American Dream . Also , The Who's musical tribute seemed too short to me especially compared to that of George Jones . That said , all the tributes were wonderful . I especially loved the NY police and firemen who survived singing the " teenage wasteland " line from " Baba O'Riley " back to Daltrey and Townshend . And how hilarious was Jack Black's speech at the beginning of their tribute ! And how wonderful were Kelli O'Hara and Nathan Gunn when they sang " Somewhere " in the Streisand tribute . And while I'm not really a Country music fan , I did enjoy Laura Bush's beginning speech and the musical tribute that followed . Finally , the couple that danced the " Sinatra Suite " - which played the entire recordings of " Strangers in the Night " , " That's Life " , and " My Way " - in Ms . Tharp's tribute were class exemplified . The same goes , as always , to host Caroline Kennedy . On that note , I salute all the 2008 Kennedy Center honorees .
While Porky in Wackyland was the original , I sort of like Dough for the Do-Do better	Having now watched Porky in Wackyland on YouTube months after seeing it's almost shot-for-shot identical remake , Dough for the Do-Do , on the first Looney Tunes Collection DVD , I have to admit : I sort of liked the remake better . There are two main reasons for this : the later color version had the " rubber band " sequence that was the most hilarious part of that version and it ended with Porky taking " the last of the Do-Dos " with him with the hundreds of other similar creatures saying " Yep , he got the last of the Do-Dos " and dancing their crazy dance after Porky left . Here , Porky just stays put as he gets astonished seeing all the other birds surround him suddenly as they say their line and that " band " ( with Mel Blanc's unique " instrumentation " ) is nowhere to be found here . That said , Bob Clampett deserves all the credit for doing such a surreal cartoon not long after becoming a " supervisor " ( director ) for Leon Schlesinger . I'm guessing even Tex Avery hadn't yet reached such heights during this time for the same producer . And there were some gags that were deleted from the remake that added some enjoyment here like the prisoner saying , " Let me out ! " constantly while just holding some bars in open space then getting beat up by a guard ! There's another gag in the beginning of a fearsome creature about to scare Porky who just says " Boo " real quiet when he confronts the pig . With all that being said , if you haven't seen Dough for the Do-Do , I definitely recommend Porky in Wackyland .
Wong Kar-Wai's Days of Being Wild is one of the most compelling foreign-language films I've seen so far	Days of Being Wild is the first film I've seen directed by Wong Kar-Wai as well as the first time I've seen any of the actors that I'll now list here : Leslie Cheung , Maggie Cheung , Andy Law , Carina Lau , and Tony Leung . Those beginning scenes with Leslie and Maggie are some of the most erotically charged I've seen in movies yet and I haven't seen too many adult dramas as you've probably guessed if you've read all my comments so far . The gradual , quiet , and eventual shattering desperateness that involves most of the characters made this movie very compelling even during very slow scenes in which nothing happens . Both Maggie and Carina Lau are sexy in their own way with their individual scenes with Leslie Cheung and their one confrontation is one of my favorite scenes here . Also loved Andy Lau's policeman character and his keeping Maggie company as she recovers from her affair with Leslie . Just about everything is compelling about Days of Being Wild though I admit being confused with Tony Leung's only scene at the end . Knowing that an unfinished sequel exists based on that frame makes me hope to one day get to be able to view it eventually . . .
Putty Tat Trouble is another Tweety and Sylvester cartoon	As Tweety shovels show out of his nest , Sylvester in one building and an orange tabby in another are eyeing him for food . After their respective masters let them out , they both try to get the yellow canary for themselves . Guess what happens . That's right , it's a tit for tat in bird catching ! Tweety also meets a friend in a toy drinking bird that bends back and forth in a glass of water and Sylvester and the tabby end up in thin ice with Tweety cutting around them . I think you know what happens after that ! Friz Freling once again mines great humor out the cat-and-bird team as so-called innocent Tweety really one-ups Sylvester . Highly recommended , Putty Tat Trouble is on disc 4 of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 .
An All-Colored Vaudeville Show was a very entertaining music short	This musical short from Warner Bros . - Vitaphone was what the title says in the following order : 1 ) The 3 Whippets-Three dancers that do somersaults , back-flips , and one of them stands at the top of two chairs with each foot on each chair without falling , 2 ) Adelaide Hall-a female singer who does a little dance , 3 ) The Nicholas Brothers-siblings Harold and Fayard , both under 20 , tap-dance up a storm , and 4 ) Eunice Wilson and The Five Racketeers-another fine female singer with a song who then gives the stage to the backup group that then sings " Tiger Rag " ( a . k . a " Hold That Tiger " ) , which is the unofficial theme song for the LSU Tigers , with Eunice then appearing at the end dancing as this very entertaining music short ends . If there was one negative thing I saw here it was the giant watermelon backdrop that was the background of the last act . I saw this on The Green Pastures DVD as an extra .
They're Tearing Down Tim Riley's Bar was possibly Rod Serling's last harrah on " Night Gallery "	William Windom is Randolph Lane , a worker at a plastics company for the last 25 years who's been off drinking and reminiscing at the abandoned - and - about - to - be - torn Tim Riley's Bar . His boss ( John Randolph ) doesn't like it and is considering replacing him with his underling Harvey Doane ( Burt Convy ) who's quite a hotshot . Only his loyal secretary Lynn Alcott ( Diane Baker ) still treats him kindly . Lane's been having memories of his homecoming from the war and how happy he seemed to be when he first worked at his company as well as how sad he didn't get to say goodbye to his now-late wife . I'll stop there and say while Rod Serling wrote a very compelling tale of the effects of aging and how those years can pile on like a sledgehammer ( a suitable word considering the story ) due to alcohol and not having enough time to smell the roses , he backtracked on the ending which was probably forced on him by the network . Still , " They're Tearing Down Tim Riley's Bar " was possibly his last compelling work as a writer before his untimely death four years later . To which I can only add , rest in eternal peace , Mr . Serling .
Porky Chops is a very funny Arthur Davis cartoon	In a nutshell , Porky Pig is a lumberjack who's chopping down a tree that occupies a squirrel who wears pajamas , hangs a " Brooklyn Dodgers " banner over his bed , and reads the racing forms from the newspaper . The squirrel tries various ways to shoo the pig away like putting aluminum siding on the tree and then disguising it with varnish as Porky fails to chop with various axes that keep losing their sharp heads . Many funny chase gags abound and a twist involving a bear especially pays off here . This cartoon came from the short-lived Arthur Davis unit and it shows how talented Davis really was with the timing of the gags and pacing that also marked his predecessor , Bob Clampett . Too bad , due to budget constraints , Warner Bros . later had to cut Davis ' staff . Porky Chops is highly recommended .
This version of Show Boat is still the essential one of film	" Show boat is coming ! " So says a black worker at the beginning of this James Whale-directed movie version of the classic Jerome Kern-Oscar Hammerstein II musical from Edna Ferber's novel . He's played by one Eddie Anderson , years before his famed role as Rochester on the radio and later television version of " The Jack Benny Program " . And what a show boat it is ! It's led by Charles Winninger as the always optimistic and tolerable Cap'n Andy . His reenactment of the boat play's climax by himself with all the physical comedy he does was a hilarious highlight of the picture . Another great performance comes from Helen Morgan who stops the movie with both " Can't Help Lovin ' Dat Man " and " Bill " . And then there's the one and only Paul Robeson singing " Ol ' Man River " that makes the song his and his alone especially with the inserts that has him displaying the lyrics ' meaning visually . Hattie McDaniel also provides some amusing moments with Paul , especially on " Ah Still Suits Me " , that makes some of their stereotypical characterizations tolerable . As for the romantic leads , Allan Jones and Irene Dunne , their duets are wonderful but Dunne is the better actor here and seeing them unite singing at the end seemed a little forced . Despite all that , this is still one of the best movie musicals made during the first decade of the talkies . And so , like " Ol ' Man River " , this picture just " keeps on moving along " .
The Spiderwick Chronicles provides wonderful family entertainment	This was another movie I picked at random for me and my friend to see during our free time . It was playing at a theatre that he's supposed to start working at soon . This was an enchanting movie concerning goblins , fairies , and ogres as well as children affected by divorce and an old lady who misses her long-lost father . There's also some nice humorous touches concerning another creature named Thimbletack who only calms down by drinking lots of honey . He is voiced by Martin Short . Also in the cast are Nick Nolte who voices Mulgarath and appears as him in human form , David Strathaim as Arthur Spiderwick , Jordy Benattar as his young daughter-Lucy , Joan Plowright as the now much older Lucy , Mary-Louise Parker as the mother Helen Grace , Andrew McCarthy as her ex-husband Richard , and as her children , Sarah Bolger as Mallory , and Freddie Highmore as Simon and Jared Grace . I and my friend were pretty much captivated by everything that went on in this movie though initially I was a little irritated by how Mallory kept on harping on little brother Jared . Anyone with kids or is a kid at heart should also enjoy this wonderful production from Nickelodeon Studios . So on that note , I definitely recommend The Spiderwick Chronicles .
' Twas the Night Before Christmas was a touching holiday episode of " The Honeymooners "	I just watched for the first time on YouTube this holiday episode of " The Honeymooners " from their only season outside of being a sketch on " The Jackie Gleason Show " . There's a partial touch of the O'Henry story , " The Gift of the Magi " , here with the standard , but well-earned , laughs whenever Norton ( Art Carney ) shows up . The sentimental speech Ralph gives at the end almost seems tacked on though it's still touching just the same and then Jackie brings his fellow cast members on stage for one more bow as he wishes us a Merry Christmas . All I want to say now is watch the episode and enjoy the chemistry between Audrey Meadows , Joyce Randolph , and especially , Glesaon and Carney in one of the best shows to come out of The Golden Age of Television . . .
Ask Grandma is a sweet and hilarious " Our Gang " short	This Hal Roach comedy short , Ask Grandma , is the thirty-eighth entry in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . Mickey is depressed because his mom wants him to be a " hothouse flower " when he'd prefer to be a weed . In other words , he'd rather be with the other boys and ride the two-plane merry-go-round outside instead of going out for ballet lessons . The only family member he can confide in is Grandma as she loves to do backflips and they play catch and spar together . When he sees bully Johnny pick on little chubby Joe , he confronts him . Then he sees the note his mom gave him with " No Fighting " listed and backs off with Johnny teasing him . There's also a girl , Mary , that both Mickey and Johnny are smitten with and as his rival manages to get her to ride the two-plane ride , Mickey gets jealous and tells his grandma of his feelings for Mary . Grandma encourages those feelings and after Johnny once again teases Mickey , tells him to " keep on slammin ' " . He does just that and is encouraged by nearly everyone , even Mary who's seen Johnny's brutal side and happens to think Mickey's " cute between the freckles " , except at first by his mother . Then she is reminded by Grandma of her tomboyish ways ( provided in flashback with Mickey playing her as a child ) and eventually promises to let her son be a " regular boy " from now on . . . This was one of the sweetest and hilarious " Our Gang " episodes ever with Grandma coming off best in terms of excitement and personality . It's too bad that neither IMDb nor the definitive book on " Our Gang " , " The Little Rsacals : The Life and Times of Our Gang " by Leonard Maltin and Richard W . Bann , has the actress that played her in the cast list . Her scenes with Mickey are so full of joy that you wish you knew someone like her in your life . Mary is at her most alluring here and the way she kisses Mickey and his reaction is one of the most priceless I'm seen of their shorts so far . The fight at the end with Mickey almost defeated by Johnny and his father before Grandma socks the father was the short's highlight and reminded me of a similar ending for the later " Little Rascals " talkie , The First Seven Years with Jackie Cooper that I was charmed by as a child . So as with many of these other silent " Our Gang " shorts I've discovered on YouTube , I highly recommend Ask Grandma . P . S . Once again , I've got to give props to the poster who added the LeRoy Shield music from the " Little Rascals " shorts as performed by the Beau Hunks Band .
The Kindness of Strangers is another good episode of " Heroes "	Twins Maya and Alejandro have escaped from a jail in Houndaras with an American named Derek and are now in Claire's stolen vehicle somewhere in Mexico . They stop when they see a man unconscious on ground . It's Sylar ! After they pick him up , he identifies himself by his real first name , Gabriel , and seeing the book authored by his former mentor / nemeses Chandra Suresh , offers to help his co-passengers go to New York to meet him . In New Orleans , Micah gets acquainted with his cousins : one is a boy his age who loves wrestling that Macah helps illegally get a pay-per-view using his powers , another is nearly grown-up Monica who's passed a management test for her place of employment , Burger Bonanza . In New York , Mrs . Petrelli confesses to Mr . Nakamura's murder but Matt in reading her mind knows she is lying and she in turn tells him in her mind to give it a rest . Her son Nathan comes by to embrace his mom before he and Matt reveal something about themselves ( revelation here : the baby of Matt's ex-wife turns out to be the child of one she fooled around with ) as they look at a group picture of mostly dead members of a circle that included Nakamura , Petrelli , Bob ( Mohinder's boss ) , and a bald man who is Matt's dad who he hasn't seen since he was thirteen . In California , while Claire had promised her dad not to make too many waves , she does lie about going to the library in order to hang with West at night on the Hollywood sign to talk about their situations . Claire comes home late and then tells about rejoining the cheerleading squad to avoid any more questions about her boyfriend . Noah than has a secret meeting with the Haitian about going back to Odessa . Back in Mexico , Derek shows Sylar at a stopover the wanted poster of the twins . Sylar instructs Derek to call the police before killing him . He then leaves with Maya and Alejandro . At her working place , Monica is told by her boss that her management application has been rejected . She later gets told to close early but someone then barges in with a gun and threatens her . However , she defeats him using a move she just saw on wrestling pay-per-view hours before . Is it possible she has powers that has her quickly learning something she sees on television ? At his and Mohinder's apartment , Matt gets Molly to track his dad . She succeeds but falls into a coma as she asks Matt for help in his mind . . . Surprising revelations about Matt's family connections concerning his ex-wife and her child as well that about his father . Looks like Molly's his surrogate daughter . Cool new character in Monica . Nice to see Nathan clean shaven again ! Isn't that burger manager the same boss of Buy More on " Chuck " ? Lots of intriguing stuff for this week's episode . Can't wait for next week when " Veronica Mars " star Kristen Bell comes aboard . . .
Blake Edwards ' The Great Race is one of the finest comedy epics ever !	After about 25 years of only seeing part of this hilarious epic comedy from Blake Edwards on TBS's " Academy Award Theatre " and having taped this unedited version on AMC about 15 years ago , I finally got to see the entirety of this just three hours ago and I've got to say I'm very glad I did ! First off , Jack Lemmon ( audience cue : " Boo ! Hiss ! " ) is excellent in playing both the villainous Prof . Fate and later on the lookalike Prince Hapnick ( what a laugh he does ! ) . As The Great Leslie , Tony Curtis ( " Yay ! " ) provides the amusement of constantly shining his white teeth with Edwards ' assistance of course . And then there's Natalie Wood who as reporter Maggie Dubois is frequently trying to one-up Leslie and others on her superiority concerning women's rights . Of the three , Lemmon comes off best as he's consistently funny throughout with great help from Peter Falk as inept assistant Max . Keenan Wynn as Leslie's right-hand man Hezekiah is less so but manages okay with what he's got . Other fine support come from Arthur O'Connell as Maggie's newspaper boss , Marvin Kaplan as his assistant , Vivian Vance as the wife of said boss , Hal Smith as a town mayor , Denver Pyle as the sheriff , Ross Martin as a fence / sword dueler with Leslie , Larry Storch as Texas Jack , and Dorothy Provine as singer Lily Olay . Screenwriter Arthur A . Ross ( who's from my original hometown of Chicago , Ill . ) provides great punchlines for the stars and Edwards constantly fills the screen with several visual touches , including the biggest pie fight ever , that bring to mind the great silent comedies of the early 20th century . In closing , while The Great Race is a little overlong , it's still entertaining enough from beginning to end and should provide enough enjoyment for the whole family . Oh , and how touching to print at the movie's beginning " For Mr . Laurel and Mr . Hardy " . . .
A Broken Leghorn is another funny Foghorn Leghorn cartoon	In Robert McKimson's A Broken Leghorn , Foghorn feels sorry for Prissy being teased because she can't lay an egg . So he puts one under her which gets hatched right away . He turns out to be a little rooster . Feeling jealous since he was the lone rooster for such a long time , this Southern loud-mouth then offers to give this little guy lessons on his trade in order to get rid of him . They all backfire , of course . While the idea of a grown-up attempting to kill a child sounds gruesome here , knowing Foghorn will always be the fall guy erases most doubt of the entertaining value of this short . While the ending lacks oomph , just about everything that happens to Mr . Leghorn was nothing short of hilarious to me including seeing his beak fall off at one point just like Daffy Duck ! So , for that , I highly recommend A Broken Leghorn which is on disc 4 of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 .
Pencil Mania is one of the most creative Van Beuren cartoons	This is a very entertaining cartoon that pre-dates Chuck Jones ' Duck Amuck by about 21 years in which a short fellow named Jerry draws various objects sometimes to the consternation of his tall partner Tom . Yes , this is the Van Beuren Tom and Jerry , two humans created long before the more famous cat-and-mouse team from MGM when the Van Beuren ones were already discontinued . In summation , Jerry draws an egg that spills on Tom's face , he draws a saxophone whose notes turn into ducks , he draws wooden shoes with a couple of birds dancing on them , he draws some vegetables with faces that sing " Yes , We Have No Bannanas " that then turn into a hero , his girlfriend , and a villain with pencil-thin mustache . All this makes the short one of the most creative from the Van Beuren studio so anyone interested in the early days of talkie animation especially the Van Beuren kind should seek this one out .
Do Not Disturb is the last available episode of " Bionic Woman "	After getting sloppy on her job due to her anger over Antonio's death , Jonas sends Jamie on a vacation at a retreat . Jamie brings sister Becca along . Just as she's settling in , Jonas calls Jamie to assign her to keep an eye on an assassin who has orders from him to kill a spy that's selling secrets to Korea . Jamie finds that assassin dead from a drug overdose . She now insists on the job which falls into her lap when that spy turns out to be the father of a boy Becca just met at the retreat . . . This was the last episode of " Bionic Woman " filmed before the WGA strike went into effect . As such , it's a marked improvement over many previous episodes especially since this time I found myself understanding and caring about what is going on here . Liked the revelation of the female psychiatrist of having once slept with Antonio . Also nice to see Jamie reveal a little about her work life to Becca at the end . It seems a little ironic that just as the strike took effect and ratings were going down that this show seemed to slowly pull itself together . One can only hope that once the strike ends ( soon , I hope and with the writers getting what they demand ) , everything falls into place for this new version of the 70's series " The Bionic Woman " .
Felicity : Pilot helps to mark the WB's final broadcast	Sunday , September 17 , 2006 , marked the official last night of the WB network . It was marked by showing pilots of the following shows : Felicity , Angel , Buffy the Vampire Slayer , and Dawson's Creek . Felicity is the story of a high school graduate who decided to go to college in New York after a boy she barely knew as a teenager signs something in year book after graduation that makes her change plans that were decided by her parents . So there she meets high school crush Ben ( Scott Speedman ) , as well as new best friend Julie ( Amy Jo Johnson ) and resident adviser Noel ( Scott Foley ) . She also has a weird roommate named Megan ( Amanda Foreman ) and sends messages on tape to former French tutor Sally ( voice of Janeane Garofolo ) . A good start to a mostly realistic show about college life and its good and bad times . Written by J . J . Abrams and directed by Matt Reeves , the shows creators and executive producers , they picked fresh-faced Keri Russel for the title role and she is perfect in showing the character's uncertainty and eventual acceptance of New York living , 2 , 000 miles from her hometown of Palo Alto , Calif . A worthy show that helped put WB on the map , it's as good a start as any to mark WB's farewell broadcast . Here's to you , Felicity Porter !
The Time Element is a fascinating find for fans of " The Twilight Zone "	Since I own the book " The Twilight Zone Companion " by Marc Scott Zicree , I had a vesting interest in seeing what in essence was the de facto pilot of the show called " The Time Element " which became an episode of " Westinghouse Desilu Playhouse " . In this one , it's 1958 and Pete Jenson ( William Bendix ) is seeing a psychiatrist ( Martin Balsam ) and telling him of the same dream he's been having for about a week . It's in a hotel in Honolulu on what he later finds out is December 6 , 1941 , the day before Pearl Harbor . He tells both a newspaper publisher and a Navy ensign about his predictions but gets rebuffed both times . He wakes up just as the planes are coming . I'll stop there and just say Bendix is mostly good in his role and provides some good humor in his scenes with Jesse White as a bartender . Balsam also is compelling as the psychiatrist especially when he proposes a theory of what would happen if someone actually came back in time and died in the past . Though some of what he says may be partly contradicted by the ending with Jensen's picture at his bar , this was still a nearly excellent outing for the premise . The version I saw on YouTube had something that was missing that I read about in the book . It was Desi Arnaz ' explanation of what just happened : " We wonder if Pete Jenson did go back in time or if he ever existed . My personal answer is that the doctor had seen Jenson's picture sometime before and had a dream . Any of you out there have any other answers ? Let me know . " One critic at the time was so mad at that " explanation " he simply wrote , " GO HOME , DESI ! " After so many years , it's gratifying to finally see what Rod Serling had initially written for his proposed series that became a bona fide classic these past 50 years . Well worth seeking out .
The Bad Fish Pardigm was a nearly excellent second season premiere episode of " The Big Bang Theory "	As Leonard and Penny are walking to Penny's apartment after their date , a camera is watching their every move . When Leonard arrives back at his place , we find Howard and Raj playing the scenes from that camera from their computer . Leonard thinks his date went well but Raj and Howard beg to differ as they keep replaying Penny's reactions . Sheldon , as usual , doesn't care . The next day , as Sheldon and Penny are washing clothes in the laundry room , Penny tells him a secret she doesn't want Leonard to know : She lied about graduating from community college . Sheldon says he'll try and wonders when she and Penny were ever friends . After a while , though , Sheldon tells Penny he can't do it and Penny says find a way . So he moves out of Leonard's apartment and crashes first with Raj , who gets annoyed when Sheldon insults his favorite Indian actress , and then Howard's mom's house as the son gets irritated at Sheldon's counting favorite Catwomen actresses and X-Men . When Howard brings a slightly drugged Sheldon back to Leonard , Sheldon tells all . That makes Leonard the next day give Penny a flyer for a community college which insults Penny even more as she closes the door on him . At least she still doesn't know about the overhead cameras . . . This was a very funny episode of " The Big Bang Theory " that was presented as the second season premiere . The dialogue between Sheldon and Penny in the laundry room was so hilarious ! In fact , pretty much everything about Sheldon was spot on . Can't wait for the next episode when Sara Gilbert becomes a regular as the returning Leslie Winkle . Until next time . . .
Ballet-Oop is a very good UPA cartoon	I just saw this UPA cartoon on YouTube . It concerns a ballet teacher and her attempts to get her four girl dancers ready for a competition in three weeks . It takes a lot of hard work but when the day comes the girls are ready . During the actual ballet story there's a narration provided by a male member of the audience who's tells his wife he knows this one and gets so excited telling the story to her she has to remind him to be quiet once in awhile ! Directed by Robert Cannon with Bill Melendez as one of the animators . Charming music by George Bruns . Loved the actual ballet depiction and I highly recommended this to any UPA enthusiast out there .
Inside Deep Throat is a compelling look at the film's impact on censorship laws	As Blockbuster was emerging as the nation's video store in the late ' 80s , they had some policies that made some video store patrons try more localized , adventurous places . One was that they didn't stock any X - ( or today NC-17 ) rated movies . That would include such non-porn films like Last Tango in Paris , Henry and June , or this one , Inside Deep Throat . However , they do have Unrated movies meant for over 17 customers available like Dawn of the Dead , Zombie , and Kids-a drama about the sexual exploits of teenagers . To me , that seems like the most hypocritical stance a corporate chain could take concerning a movie's content and the judgment to make whether such movie should be made available to the general public . This documentary makes the point that before Deep Throat was released in the summer of ' 72 at a Times Square movie theatre , there were hardly any porn films that made such a fuss that the government wanted to shut down movie houses that showed it . It also looks at the lives of the three important people involved and how they were affected : director Gerard Damiano didn't make a dime because he sold his share to the mafia who controlled the financial end , male star Harry Reems was going to be jailed for 5 years before the charges were dropped , and star Linda Lovelace ( actual surname Boreman ) , initially defending her participation in the film , then denouncing it after writing an autobiography called Ordeal , then coming back to pose in sleazy magazines because she was dead broke , eventually died that way when she was injured in a car accident in 2002 . Damiano seemed to want to make the point in the film interviews that with the success of his movie , porn was entering the mainstream but emerging obscenity laws would make that an impossibility . Which probably meant that any X-rated movie would make that automatically porn no matter the content simply because of the stigma . NC-17 was supposed to change that in 1990 but there are some newspapers that won't show ads for such films or movie theatres exhibit them . So unless cuts are made in certain director's pictures in order to show in the most possible screens , the only other alternative is showing it Unrated except Major Studios won't accept that in their contracts , only independents do ( this is why Miramax-a Disney subsidiary-couldn't distribute the aforementioned Kids so head Harvey Weinstein formed another distributing company-Shining Excalibur-for the sole purpose of keeping Kids from getting an NC-17 or clipped for an R ) . I've probably talked enough here so I'll just say that Inside Deep Throat puts in perspective what it was like in the ' 70s when both the sexual revolution and feminism was emerging and not on the same paths and how they affected society to this day . Whether what the results that became were good or bad depends , as always , on your point of view .
Dean and Jerry hilarious in Colgate Comedy Hour	This broadcast of December 19 , 1954 starts with Dean and Jerry in their dressing rooms trying out various Colgate products as the announcer mentions the sponsor's product names we see Dean and Jerry display on the screen . Then a big production number of how the show is canceled when Martin and Lewis come on stage and they sing Lose That Long Face while The Nick Castle Dancers all perform . The first sketch takes place in a restaurant that Dean runs . On a chalkboard it says , " Soup 15 cents " . Dean tries the soup , looks around the chalkboard and says , " There was supposed to be a chalk that I was going to use to mark this out to say Soup 10 cents but I can't find it ! " He starts to eat dinner . Jerry looks out the window and starts to make faces to indicate he's hungry . This goes on for a few minutes before Dean offers him a job . Jerry runs to indicate how quick he can be . A lot of customers come in . Jerry chops a long line of prop spaghetti noodles resulting in accidentally chopping a man's coat in half ! Bus call causes customers to leave without paying . Dean gets angry at Jerry and tries to train him as waiter . There's a hilarious set piece involving a big block of ice during this scene . More customers come in . To keep them from taking next bus , Jerry ties bus to counter stools . Bus takes those stools away ! Dean puts Jerry on stove as sketch ends . Dean sings Without a Word of Warning to a female cast member on stage . Next sketch has Martin and guest Vera Miles adopting Jerry here playing Orville . When Dean comes home from a hard day's work Jerry overreacts by hugging and sitting in his chair causing it to fall several times , and trying to take his shoes off by pulling on them while sitting on his legs ! Dean then says he didn't really want children and then wife Miles tells Orville about " present " under couch which Dean opens and reads a humorous and touching speech about little boys which results in Martin and Lewis sympathetically punching each other . Then the Nick Castle Dancers do another number . Then Jerry does a solo piece about having nothing to do for three minutes before Dean sings Mambo Italiano . They then introduce special guest " Phil Abrams " before Love in Bloom plays and it's actually Jack Benny who comes on stage . He just says , " Well . . . " before Dean and Jerry rush him off stage . Their next number is Every Street's a Boulevard which they performed in Living It Up . They introduce Jack Benny for real at the end and Jack mentions " Money's not everything since I got paid nothing to be here . " in mock disappointment . ( Of course , this might have to do with the fact that Jack was then a CBS employee on an NBC show ! ) Then as Jack leaves , Dean and Jerry reprise their last number as the credits roll . Good show throughout considering the conflict that was already brewing between Martin and Lewis before their split two years later . I saw a good print kinescope on a DVD collection of various Martin and Lewis shows so if you love this team by all means seek this one out !
Believe It or Don't is a rare live action / animated short that survives from the work of Charles Bowers	Just discovered this unusual live action / animated short on the Europa Film Treasures site . It's made by the now obscure experimental film maker Charles R . Bowers , an American . A parody of the Ripley's " Believe It or Not " shorts series , Believe It or Don't has three narrated segments : a circus act entirely performed by peanuts with stick hands and legs , a hen that lays eggs from which toy autos come out of , and a humanized lobster who looks like a saloon singer walking the streets but actually becomes cheery when he plays the xylophone ! While the short looks primitive today , Bowers ' Believe It or Don't retains its entertainment value especially during the last sequence that should still amuse some little ones under the age of 10 . Highly recommended .
" B . C . : The First Thanksgiving " was a funny animated special I just watched on YouTube	While writing in " Thanksgiving Cartoons " in the search blank in YouTube , I discovered this B . C . animated special was listed . What a great surprise to find this cartoon after partially knowing about it for years ! Directed by Warner animation veteran ( and Chuck Jones protégé ) Abe Levitow , " B . C . : The First Thanksgiving " does Johnny Hart's classic comic strip a great service to its creator which is not surprising since Hart co-wrote the script . Hilarious stuff like B . C . ' s discovering fire ( not to mention his Jack Benny-like voice and characterization ) and the other cavemen chasing the turkey as the turkey keeps playing tricks on them are among the highlights of many in this inventive and satirical animated special . I also loved the jazz-rock with a little bit of country-flavored score . There was also another character who talked liked Bogart . Among the voices were Daws Butler , Don Messick , and singer Joanie Sommers as both the Cute Chick and the Fat Broad . I highly recommend this for anyone searching on YouTube .
Todd Haynes ' I'm Not There . is a fascinating non-conventional look at Bob Dylan	As a filmmaker , Todd Haynes certainly is an acquired taste . From the bootlegged doll movie bio of Superstar : The Karen Carpenter Story to the ' 50s-style Far From Heaven , Haynes makes movies that conventional-watching audiences must find puzzling . And so it is with his portrait of Bob Dylan in his various phases of his life and music with countless actors playing him using different names each time . Of them , Cate Blanchett probably plays the most familiar one during Dylan's " electric " period when audiences were booing him for changing his style from pure folk to rock and admirers like poet Allen Ginsberg ( a spot-on performance by David Cross ) hung around . Richard Gere represents the more fictional aspect of him during the time he played in Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid and seemed to channel the period as through a revisionist western . And then there's Heath Ledger playing him during the singer's domestic life and his arguments with his wife and her female friend about women's lib . Nothing really connects here until the climax at the end and when it's all over , you'll either really be relieved at such and want to go on to something else or want to watch it all over again and explore other things Dylan . I'm Not There . is certainly a unique way of looking at the life and times of one of the most important musical figures of the last century .
Richard Williams ' A Christmas Carol is a compelling if brief version	I just saw Richard Williams ' Oscar-winning but made-for-TV version of A Christmas Carol on Google Video . Having seen and heard so many versions over the years , I find this the most beautifully animated version with its illustration-style renderings of London and its people in the 19th century . As compelling as the drawings are though , I find the story at 24 minutes a little too short for my tastes so the transformation of Scrooge at the end is not as complete as I would like it to be . That said , it was nice to hear Alastair Sim once again portray the lead character as he had done in the 1951 version . As the Cratchit family and Tiny Tim have said over and over again , " God bless us everyone . "
The Hungry Wolf was another fine Harmon-Ising cartoon from M-G-M	This is an M-G-M cartoon produced by Harmon-Ising that I found on the Cartoons , Model Sheets , and Stuff site as linked from DailyMotion . The title character sees a rope as sausages , a rolling pin as corn , and finds cheese on a mousetrap but after getting nicked by the trap and chasing the mouse for the cheese ( during which he manages to rip the wooden floor and some of the wall ) , the wolf seems resigned to his starvation . Then a little bunny comes in . . . Okay , I'll stop there and say that while things seem bleak for the bunny , things take a turn to some kind of salvation that insures a happy ending for all involved . So while there is some humor here , this is a mostly a more dramatic animated short that gets one feeling for both the bunny and the wolf . Oh , and the author of the site I just mentioned noticed the mouse's resemblance to Jerry of Tom and Jerry which I can see and am not surprised by since they're from M-G-M too . So on that note , I'm recommending The Hungry Wolf .
The Baby Show is another funny episode of 30 Rock	When Cirie mentions her engagement during Jenna's surprise birthday party , Liz suddenly gets an urge for a baby especially after seeing the makeup lady bring hers . Jack is having phone arguments with his mother about her moving in with him . Tracy cannot stand Joss ' constant impersonation of him and threatens Liz to go over her head to Jack about it . After Liz tells Joss about this , Joss impersonates Jack on the phone to Tracy . He then impersonates Tracy to Jack the same way . When they both find out , they convince Joss to fool Jack's mother and Tracy's wife this way to keep from being fired . Makeup lady then asks Liz to carry her baby which Liz accidentally takes to her apartment . Makeup lady then takes a week off as Liz is temporarily cured of her maternal instincts . . . After a couple of really hilarious episodes , this one is funny with some drama concerning Liz's character . Nice welcome return of Chris Parnell as Dr . Spaceman as well as Rachel Dratch's character of the cat wrangler from the pilot episode . Excellent use of Lonny Ross as Joss with his dead-on impersonations of Tracy Morgan and Alec Baldwin . If you haven't seen 30 Rock yet , I suggest you start now since this show is definitely on fire !
Ko-Ko's Reward is another enjoyable Max Fleischer cartoon short	In Ko-Ko's Reward , Max has his daughter ( possibly his real one ) with him when he once again draws Ko-Ko the Clown and his dog , Fitz , with their heads initially on the wrong bodies . After the switch , the little girl gets a little bored and puts magic ink which allows her to become an animated drawing herself as she goes on the drawing board which has a shack illustrated on it . Since Ko-Ko , Fitz , and Max didn't see her enter , however , Max tells his cartoon stars to find his daughter as Ko-Ko and Fitz step outside the drawing board to search a nearby amusement park for her . When they return to the board , they encounter a skeleton , Fitz finds a witch who boils him into hot dogs before he turns back to normal , and they are chased by a sheeted ghost before it's revealed to be the little girl who laughs at the whole thing ! As she goes back outside and changes back to her live-action self , Max tells her to reward Ko-Ko and Fitz for finding her . She obliges be kissing them . . . I saw this on YouTube which had music by Leroy Shield for Hal Roach shorts and sound effects added , all to great effect . Some of the most charming Fleischer shorts ever came from this era . This one had the added enjoyment of some chills especially the hot dog one that probably wouldn't go well on Saturday morning TV today . Still , well worth seeing for anyone who loves all things Fleischer .
This Elizabeth Montgomery-hosted episode of " The Hollywood Palace " was very entertaining	Just watched on YouTube as linked from the Classic Television Showbiz blog , this episode of the ABC variety series " The Hollywood Palace " . The guest host for this October 1 , 1966 edition was the star of the network's very popular show of the time , " Bewitched " : Elizabeth Montgomery . She comes on stage accompanied by four male dancers as we hear an offscreen chorus singing the words to her show's theme ( which was never heard on the series itself ) . Ms . Montgomery then introduces the first act : The Reberte Trio-three male acrobatics . They were an okay amusement though it was nice to hear the late Neal Hefti's " Batman " theme here . Next up is The Baja Marimba Band , a wonderful Mexican music-styled band that performs two numbers . Then Jackie Mason comes on as he comments on George Murphy and Ronald Reagan just starting their political careers , how a plumber wouldn't make a good president ( how ironic since McCain and Obama are now talking about " Joe the Plumber " ! ) , and Nixon being picked for president again after so many losses ! After a Sherwin-Williams commercial , Paul Lynde and Liz perform a scene from Shakespere's " MacBeth " with Mr . Lynde doing his part mostly straight while Ms . Montgomery gets hilarious as she tries fixing her hair , gets rid of her gum on the podium , and and flubs one line with the word " nightie " or " nightgown " ! Then Vic Damone comes on and sings a couple of Rodgers-Hart's songs - " Bewitched , Bothered , and Bewildered " and " Falling in Love with Love " as well as " I Cried for You " . Liz then comes on as she and Damone reprise the " Bewitched " song in a more upbeat and humorous manner considering Ms . Montgomery's TV Show . After another commercial for Head and Shoulders , Liz and Paul appear as a married couple playing darts as " Harriet " asks " George " for a divorce . He refuses before leaving for an assignment for a nuclear product . Then Damone comes out from behind a sofa and asks " Harriet " to come to London with him . She refuses since she's still married . Then a bomb goes off . . . Then Liz says goodnight , mentions Adam West as the next guest host , and goes with the male dancers backstage as they ride on their brooms . Then after the ABC logo appears , there's one more commercial for Tareytown cigarettes . Obviously , this was way before the 1971 TV smoking products ban . . . The IMDb cast list for this episode mentions a couple of other acts that I didn't see on YouTube so this is probably not a review of the complete episode as it originally aired . Nonetheless , this was a very entertaining episode of " The Hollywood Palace " especially with Ms . Montgomery providing her comic and singing talents in full force here . Also was a treat to see her with Mr . Lynde outside of their " Bewitched " parts of " Samantha " and " Uncle Arthur " . Mr . Mason was also funny here even with the dated references to past politicians since many of his comments of them actually could describe some of the ones in office today . He also made a little fun of Ed Sullivan and his hand gestures though he said here they were friends again . And what a treat to see and hear Mr . Damone since I only know him from a " Dick Van Dyke " episode as " Rick Vallone " there . So on that note , I highly recommend you go to YouTube and watch this vintage episode there .
The Dark Knight was another awesome Batman movie from Christopher Nolan	Before I comment on the movie proper , I'd like to mention two things : One , the person I went with-who works at this particular theatre and saw the midnight premiere-thought the bank manager role was played by Jimmy Smits but I immediately recognized him as William Fichtner from " Invasion " , the TV series he did with Eddie Cibrian . Also , when the Joker was threatening Rachel Dawes , it was the only time I was taken out of the picture since I said aloud that he was threatening Jake Gyllenhaal's sister with my friend mentioning her name since we both saw Heath Ledger and Jake in Brokeback Moutain a few years ago . Ledger is fine as the main villain though I stop at saying he's better than Jack Nicholson in the role or deserves an Oscar nomination though it would be fine if he did . And Maggie Gyllenhaal is an improvement from Katie Holmes as Bruce Wayne's former girlfriend though I remember liking Holmes fine too . And Aaron Eckhart as Harvey Dent , Dawes ' new beau , is also fine with his initial role as " white knight " district attorney later turning into what would become known as Two-Face . And I loved having Michael Caine as Alfred the Butler having a previous background in the battling jungles of Burma so he can tell his master of his dilemma there . Throw in Morgan Freeman's Lucius Fox and you've almost got a perfect movie . Certainly , Christian Bale as the Caped Crusader is even better here than in Batman Begins and he is to me , like many viewers , The absolute Dark Knight here . While the movie may be longish in spots , Christopher Nolan lets it be that way so he can make us really care for the characters . I certainly was very touched by the sacrifices the new Commissoner Gordon , as played by Gary Oldman , had to make throughout the picture especially when he had to deal with Two-Face and his family's peril near the end . So the many who went to see this once and want to do it again , what are you waiting for ? P . S . Having not recognized Anthony Micheal Hall previously , I'll have to look for him the next time I watch which may be soon too !
The Long Night is a nearly excellent , if obscure , movie I recently discovered	When I went to my local library to check some DVDs , I stumbled onto this obscure flick that starred Henry Fonda , Barbara Bel Geddes ( in her film debut ) , Vincent Price , and Ann Dvorak . With that cast ( I just remembered that Elisa Cook , Jr . has a memorable role as a blind man here ) , with Anatole Litvak as director , and Dimitri Tiomkin conducting his score ( as well as some Beethoven pieces spread among it ) , I expected an excellent suspenseful movie and I got it ! Well , maybe nearly so since the speech Ms . Bel Geddes says to Fonda at the end is obviously contrived to address the audience as well as the leading character about the faith of people . Otherwise , the dialogue was mostly spot-on especially the heated exchanges between Fonda and Price who , as usual , is absolutely charming even in his creepiness . And Ms . Dvorak marks a nice contrast with her cynicism as compared with Ms . Bel Geddes ' optimism . Fonda himself goes the full range of emotions whether during the flashbacks or his present condition of being holed up in his apartment while the police are waiting outside . So for all that , I highly recommend The Long Night .
The Snow Man was a quite effective atmospheric Terrytoon cartoon	Just watched this Terrytoons winter cartoon on YouTube whose uploader mistakenly identified this as a Van Beuren one directed by Ted Esbaugh . Manny Davis actually made this one and he provides some amusement in the beginning when an Eskimo says goodbye to his seal , who barks like a dog here , into his igloo and sets his alarm clock for July ! Also , his fox blanket licks him before sleeping ! By the time the Eskimo wakes up , the seal had some offspring with the help of the stork that follows them ! While it's now July , there's still snow so all the animals wake up and make a snowman . Then after dancing around it , that snowman turns abominable scaring everyone away . . . During the abominable snowman sequence , nothing funny happens save for one scene when the snowman plays on the organ and does his Jimmy Durante impression saying , " Hot-cha-cha ! " Quite effective during these horror moments so I'd watch any kid under 6 who sees this on television , VHS , or DVD . On that note , I recommend The Snow Man to any animation buff out there .
Loved the cat's reactions in Early to Bet	This Robert McKimson cartoon , Early to Bet , stars a gambling bug who decides to bite a compulsive cat who's trying to give up . But every time the bug bites him , the cat always goes to this bulldog who makes him spin a penalty wheel when he loses the card game . Then after picking the file with the number that the arrow pointed toward , he looks at it and says , " No , not the Geshunheit . Not the Geshunheit ! NOT THE GESHUNHEIT ! " After a few more repeats of this , the dog declines the now-injured cat's attempts to play Gin so the bug takes the dog's place . Bad idea as the bug gets the card one number lower than 3 ! " No , not the Post ! " is shouted as the short ends . Loved the way the cat bounces up and down after the bug keeps biting him . Also loved the penalties he keeps getting . Early to Bet is another cartoon I highly recommend .
Bruno Bozzetto's The Big Bang is pretty weird	A man is lying on a hammock reading and listening to the radio . Wife is tending garden . They each throw something on the ground . Wife tells husband to throw ground trash away . Husband digs ground . Wife points to trash can . Husband puts trash in garbage can . Garbage truck comes to take trash and dumps everything in large pile . Pile gets dumped in a large hole in earth that gets sown up by giant needle . When wife is again tending garden , something with a funny smell comes out . She starts praying to virgin statue . A dog strikes same hole and faints at smell . Husband gets his pickax to strike hole and everything explodes leaving us with space which dissolves into a picture observed by two small green men in a space ship . " The Big Bang " , asks one . " No , the Pig Bang ! " says the other as he laughs and we fade out . Pretty amusing short from the director of Allegro non troppo that makes you think . A worthy entry from the Volume 5 VHS of the International Tournee of Animation .
" Play It Again , Charlie Brown " is one of the late Bill Melendez ' better " Peanuts " specials	When I was growing up in the ' 70s and ' 80s , I somehow managed to watch nearly every Charlie Brown animated special that was made during that time and before . All except this one though I did manage to borrow from my elementary school library a book version that had pictures from the special . So thinking of that , I went to YouTube and I finally managed to watch " Play It Again , Charlie Brown " in its entirety . How giddy I was to at last see Lucy try to constantly show how much she loves Schroeder even though he only lives to play Beethoven on his toy piano . Loved the boy's reaction when Lucy kissed him : " Aaaugh ! I've been kissed by a girl ! Get me iodine ! Get me hot water ! " When Peppermint Patty suggests Schroeder play at the PTA meeting , Lucy thinks she's found a way to his heart . Then Patty mentions it's supposed to be a rock concert . . . Besides what I've just mentioned , there's also a wonderful scene of Snoopy , Charlie Brown , and Pig-Pen playing their rock combo while Lucy dances . There's also the " Beethoven now comes in spray cans " gag that actually works better here since you can hear the music from said object . As always , Mr . Charles Schulz goes to the heart of the matter when Schroeder refuses to " sell out " by playing something he's not in love with that gets its message out after so much observational humor in the previous scenes serves their entertaining point . In final , I'd like to dedicate this comment to the late " Peanuts " director Bill Melendez who passed away a few months ago . It's his hand that has made these cartoons so beloved and inspirational to children and adults alike these past 40 years and he , along with producer Lee Mendelson and musician Vince Guaraldi , should be very proud of how they handled Mr . Schulz ' creation all this time .
Cleveland is hilarious next-to-last season episode of 30 Rock	Jack , having just come back from his Paris honeymoon with Phoebe , suggests to Liz that she and Jenna should have lunch with her . Liz finds she and Phoebe have nothing in common while Jenna compares them to the Sex and the City gals with Liz being the " one who is watching the show " . Tracy can't get financing for his Jefferson movie and finds out Bill Cosby and the Black Crusaders are after him . Floyd , having been passed for a promotion and a new apartment , goes with Liz to his hometown , Cleveland , and gets a job offer there . He wants Liz to move with him . . . Lots of funny stuff happening in this episode like Liz ' cell playing a Wagner tune that Liz likes because Elmer Fudd sang it as Jenna warbles " Kill the wabbit ! Kill the wabbit ! " Nice comment from Lester Holt on TV telling Jordan directly , " The Black Crusaders are coming for you ! " And an affectionately funny song about how great Cleveland is is spot on during the montage of Liz and Floyd traveling the city's sights . One more episode left before the season finale . I can hardly wait !
Somebody to Love is another very funny episode of " 30 Rock "	Another funny episode of " 30 Rock " I had to catch up on nbc . com . In this one , Kenneth loses the pants of Jack's suit so he tries to earn some money to buy a new one by performing some of the writers ' dares like swallowing ketchup that expired a couple of months ago or scaring writer Lutz awake in a gorilla suit . Liz suspects a new Middle Eastern neighbor ( Fred Armisen ) is a terrorist . And Jack falls for a woman at a party named C . C . ( Edie Falco ) who he later finds is a Democratic senator . . . Not as funny as Greenzo , Somebody to Love is hilarious enough with welcome appearances of Tina's former SNL castmates like Armisen and Kristen Wiig who plays an actress who plays C . C . in a very funny Lifetime movie parody . " I'm . . . going into politics " , Wiig says after the dog shoots her in the face ! LOL ! Also loved Tracy's Rerun ( from " What's Happening ! ) impersonation in the cold opening . Some of the most memorable lines are , of course , from Alec Baldwin's Jack . When he mentions to Liz a party thrown by John McCain and Jack Bauer , Liz says she doesn't think he's real . Jack explains , " I assure you , Liz , John McCain is definitely real . " There's many more like that but why should I tell you ? Just watch . Will review another episode soon . . .
Good News is one of the most underrated MGM musicals	Good News is one of the most underrated MGM musicals from the ' 40s I've ever seen from that era . While leads June Allyson and Peter Lawford are no Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney ( who ironically , were the original considered leads for this movie version years ago ) , they sing and dance entertainingly enough for one to not notice after a while . Another underrated talent showcased here is one Joan McCracken who shines in the opening number and the later made-for-film specialty " Pass That Peace Pipe " , which was eventually nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Song . And dig the " Velvet Fog " Mel Torme in his younger days crooning here ! Excellent debut for director Charles Walters and screenwriters Betty Comden and Adolph Green makes this one of the most spectacular musical comedies I've seen yet ! P . S . Among the extras on the DVD are two numbers from the 1930 film version of Good News , the title number and " The Varsity Drag " , both performed energetically and athletically by a young woman named Dorothy McNulty , later to be known as Penny Singleton from the Blondie movies . All of the above are well worth checking out !
Scrappy's Ghost Story is another cartoon gem I discovered starring the now-obscure Scrappy	Just watched on YouTube this Columbia ( though the print I watched had the heading " Samba Pictures Inc . Presents " ) / Charles Mintz cartoon starring a now forgotten little boy named Scrappy . In this one , Scrappy is telling his little brother a ghost story in the dark by the lit fireplace . Then he encounters a real ghost . That leads to a musical sequence of other apparitions ( including some of caricatured blacks that might be considered offensive today ) scaring him and his little brother . I'll stop there and just say how entertainingly atmospheric and musical this cartoon was and how I love watching these now-obscure gems whenever I go on the internet . So on that note , I highly recommend Scrappy's Ghost Story .
George and Gracie are Pulling a Bone	Gracie's boss at the soda fountain tells her she's five minutes late . He also tells her to be polite to her customers or she'll be fired . Gracie asks her workmate if she could at least ask for a raise . A customer complains to manager about the service and refuses to pay . Manager says he'll accept that and offers to pay him two dollars to do the same to his competitor across the street . Customer says he got three dollars to do what he just did ! George goes to a nearby perfume saleswoman and exclaims he has a bone in his throat . She tries to sell him some supplies . George goes to Gracie's corner and she talks about being on an airplane for six months . And trying to get a parasite . And laws of gravity . All this while George keeps exclaiming about " a bone in his throat " ! Then Gracie gets busy with customers . . . Once again , Burns and Allen are amusing with the non-sequeters and puns and what have you . This was made right after their first ( or second ) short , Fit to Be Tied and even this early on George and Gracie are natural on screen . Definitely seek this out if you're a Burns and Allen fan !
This documentary , Edgar G . Ulmer - The Man Off-screen , should prove of interest to his fans	When I went to my local library recently , I looked for something on DVD that was a bit different from the mainstream and the usual classics . This documentary of a director known as " King of the B's " certainly caught my eye . Here , we get interviews of people like Joe Dante , John Landis , Roger Corman , and Wim Wenders who learned many of their methods of making low-budget films entertaining from him . There's also Peter Bogdanovich who interviewed Ulmer and got his stories of working with various immigrant German filmmakers , that may be or not be completely true , into the public eye . Then there's many actors who worked for him like William Schallert , Jimmy Lydon , Ann Savage from Detour-perhaps Ulmer's best known work , and , from his last work The Cavern , John Saxon and Peter Marshall . Many of these people are riding in cars and may or not be conversing with each other . There's also scenes of a funeral near Paramount that many famous movie people like Hitchcock are buried as well as of a shopping center where the lowest of the " poverty row " studios , PRC , that Ulmer once worked for had resided . And then there's reenactment of some of the director's movie scenes that add to the partly eerie atmosphere concerning Edgar's frustrations with " poverty row " and the studio system . It's especially fascinating seeing his daughter Arianne offering her comments . All in all , Edgar G . Ulmer - The Man Off-screen is a fine tribute to someone who once worried all his work would be destroyed and forgotten after he departed . P . S . The Kino International DVD has added Isle of Forgotten Sins , which doesn't have a clip in the docu , as an extra attraction .
Fast and Furry-ous is a nearly excellent first Road Runner cartoon	Fast and Furry-ous is Chuck Jones ' first cartoon starring the Road Runner and While E . Coyote . It was originally supposed to be a one-shot but there was so much demand that a sequel was made four years later which then became a series . Since this was the first one , I noticed a few differences . One , the backgrounds were more detailed than in subsequent ones . Also , when the bird sticks out his tongue a few times , you don't hear the sound effects that Treg Brown provided on later entries . And only once as the Coyote falls do you then see the ground from a sky-view before some smoke appears . Otherwise , there's the spot gags that are similar to other series entries like the scenery While E . paints over a rock formation that the Road Runner runs right through but the Coyote bumps into hard ! And there's some Acme products , of course ! Very funny first entry to a classic , if formulaic , series . By the way , Road Runner is described as Accellleratii Incredibus while the Coyote is Carnivorous Vulgaris .
Cabin in the Sky is a very entertaining fantasy / musical from M-G-M	Okay , continuing the reviews of movies that involved African-Americans in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now in 1943 with the release of Cabin in the Say . This was a very enjoyable movie with the three stars : Ethyl Waters , Eddie ' Rochester ' Anderson , and Lena Horne playing their roles to the hilt . And what a supporting cast : Rex Ingram , Oscar Polk , Kenneth Spencer , Butterfly McQueen , Louis Armstrong , and Mantan Moreland . All involved made this one of the most entertaining and inspirational films I've ever seen . " Happiness is a Thing Called Joe " " Life's Full of Consequences " " Taking a Chance on Love " " Cabin in the Sky " " Honey in the Honeycomb " Classic songs all . Vincente Minnelli did fine for his directing debut . Plus there's Duke Ellington , the Hall Johnson Choir , and dancer ' Bubbles ' John W . Sublett performing " Shine " . Nice mix of humor and near-tragedy . Dorothy Dandridge's mother Ruby is listed in the credits as playing Mrs . Kelso . I think that's her in the church sequence talking about Joe repenting to the preacher at the door . And the guy tap-dancing to " Taking a Chance on Love " is Bill Bailey , Pearl Bailey's brother . Like I said , this was very enjoyable . So on that note , I highly recommend Cabin in the Sky . P . S . Only disappointment is we're deprived of Armstrong's number " Ain't It the Truth " that was cut from general release and supposedly is forever lost with only stills and his recording existing .
The Gun is one of the funniest episodes of " Amos ' n ' Andy " so far	Wanting to make it up to Sapphire for forgetting their 20th wedding anniversary , George " Kingfish " Stevens goes to a shop with Andy to buy her a purse . They get one from a pile of them that , minutes before , had a couple of criminals-one male , one female-hide that female's purse among them . When they come home , Andy looks in the purse and finds the gun . Instead of turning it to the police , Kingfish decides to pawn the weapon . . . Don't want to reveal any more except that the gun results in some of the most hilarious scenes I've seen from this series so far . And Tim Moore's facial reactions as the Kingfish are so funny . I've got to mention here that Ernestine Wade as Sapphire and Amanda Randolph as her mom add to the fun of the troubles that Kingfish goes through with Randolph saying some choice wisecracks about her son-in-law . Recurring player Roy Glenn is fine in his straight role as the District Attorney prosecuting the Kingfish especially in contrast to George's lawyer , Algonquin J . Calhoun with his comic defense . Funniest episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy " I've seen so far .
Gertie on Tour is a very short but interesting sequel to Winsor McCay's Gertie the Dinosaur	There is only a minute and a half of this intriguing sequel to Gertie the Dinosaur in which the title character encounters a train and tries to eat it and dreams being surrounded by other dinosaurs . I think she also puts her tail in her mouth at the beginning . I don't know if Winsor McCay didn't finish this short or some of it is missing but even at such a short length , the footage is fascinating . This time the backgrounds are a little shaded . No doubt , anyone who loves dinosaurs and animation should take a look at this one . I found out about this one in Mark Evanier's news column and he linked a Google video of it there . Well worth seeing for any McCay and animation buffs .
Minotauromaquia provides a unique depiction of Picasso	As with many unique animated shorts that I have reviewed here on IMDb , I discovered Minotauromaquia on Cartoon Brew from Amid . Directed by Spain's Juan Pablo Etcheverry , it is a clay-animated depiction of the great modern artist Pablo Picasso and his dreams and nightmares of his various creations particularly the minotaur after he sees him devour one of his naked women ( this scene is very vivid so I definitely wouldn't recommend this short for children ) . The way scenes go back and forth in recreating many of Picasso's drawings and a dove that provides light provide some of the most fascinating images for such a well done short . This is highly recommended for anyone with a sense of adventure concerning the imagination .
Ballot Box Bunny is another funny Friz Freling-directed Bugs Bunny cartoon	When Yosemite Sam runs for mayor , he vows to " rid the country of every last rabbit " . Bugs , overhearing this in his hole , resolves to " fight fire with fire " and runs against him . Considering the explosions that happen here , that's an understatement ! One such gag you usually find in these Friz Freling-directed shorts has Sam calling truce with Bugs and offering him a piano to play " Believe Me If All Those Endering Young Charms " . The rabbit plays it wrong unknowingly and gets Sam to play it right with the thing literally blowing up in his face ! Another touch I loved is when Sam uses some ants to steal some food from Bugs ' picnic , a speeded up-version of the " William Tell Overture " ( probably more familiar to boomers as " The Lone Ranger Theme " ) is playing . This short ends with a literal " dark horse " winning and the two leads playing Russian Roulette . I won't spoil it for you but if you're familiar with Bugs and Sam , you'll probably guess how it ends . Another highly recommended Warner Bros . cartoon short .
Burns and Allen are Once Over , Light	George is at the barbershop where his cutter has trouble convincing him to buy hair tonic . George asks his barber if he has ever had it . " For ten years " is the reply which bothers George since the barber is bald ! He also owns the tonic since his name is on it ! George then encounters another customer who asks what he thinks of war . George says , " Well , it seems like a nice day for it . " The other customer then cuts George's tie representing various European countries that fought in WWI ( or The Great War as it was then called ) saving Belgium for the very end . George ends this by ripping up the other man's shirt ! Manicurist Gracie encounters an old girlfriend asking what happened to her old fiancée . Before the old girlfriend could completely answer , Gracie mentions how the fiancée had been fooling around behind her back-and was with Gracie the day before . " I married him ! " , answers the old girlfriend . George then encounters Gracie when she asks , " Pointy or roundy ? " This leads to a series of nonsense questions like-George : " A man enters a restaurant ordering a tomato , spinach , and ice cream . How do I know he's a soldier ? " Gracie : " Because he was wearing a uniform . " or Gracie : " What's the difference between a pickle and an umbrella ? " George : " I give up . " Gracie : " Then I give up too ! " As the short ends , Gracie talks about her sister who just had a baby and how the baby goes , " Googie , Googie " when it looks at it's aunt as George gets visibly bored . Googie , as Burns and Allen fans know , is George's nickname for Gracie . Once again , Burns and Allen are at their most amusing doing routines that have survived the test of time . Once Over , Light is most highly recommended !
I Was a Teenage Thumb was another latter-day Warner Bros . - Chuck Jones cartoon I watched on YouTube	Just watched this latter-day Warner Bros . Merrie Melodies cartoon on YouTube . Directed by Chuck Jones with Maurice Noble , this cartoon seemed to be their version of the Tom Thumb story with the parents , especially the wife , wanting a child . Then Merlin , who changes into anything for seconds at a time , grants the wife's wish when he overhears her . Then after the boy is taken away by a cat . . . oh , watch the short on YouTube or anywhere you encounter this if you want to see what happens . What I'll tell you is this cartoon has a " Fractured Fairy Tales " vibe that you'd recognize if you've ever seen that particular segment on " The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show " . Quite dryly funny throughout with a sort-of British flavor that Jones seemed into during this period . So for that reason , I highly recommend I Was a Teenage Thumb .
Sayonara was an entertaining look at America-Japan relations of the time	Having borrowed this movie from the local library a couple of weeks ago intending to originally see this on or a few days after Memorial Day , I finally got to seeing Sayonara just this morning . In this one Marlon Brando plays Major Lloyd " Ace " Gruver , a General's son who's been raised a certain way , being transfered from Korea to Japan where his girlfriend Eileen Webster ( Patricia Owens ) conveniently happens to be . Before leaving , he tries to persuade one of his men , a Joe Kelly ( Red Buttons ) , out of marrying Japanese woman Katsumi ( Miyoshi Umeki ) since that's a violation of military fraternization laws . With the romance of him and Eileen on the outs , however , Ace not only becomes the best man at Joe and Katsumi's wedding , he falls for an Asian himself after he and Captain Mike Bailey ( James Garner ) go out on the town and watch headlining entertainer Hana-ogi ( Miiko Taka ) on stage . Bailey himself is dating one of the dancers , Fumiko-San ( Reiko Kuba ) . Eileen herself seems to have a fancy for one of the Kabuki performers , Nakamura ( Ricardo Montalban ) . I'll stop right there and say that this was a mostly compelling drama about the prejudices concerning American-Asian relations of romance that was very touching from beginning to end . Even seeing Hispanic Montalban playing an Oriental isn't too embarrassing ( though it's a good thing his part is short ) . And there's some nice touches of humor like that of Brando's head hitting the top of Button's and Umeki's inside doorway more than once . Red and Miyoshi themselves deserve their Oscars especially Red with his defiant and proud emotions throughout . Rookie Garner , before being cast in his legendary role on TV's " Marverick " , is fine in his scenes with Brando and Miiko Taka shows great restraint in her initial characterization as an anti-American . While I've read there were some changes from James Michener's novel , I can't imagine director Josha Logan , who had previously adopted another Michener work into the Broadway musical " South Pacific " and would eventually make that into a movie as well , not staying true to the original source . He certainly provided some inspiration with the ending scenes that made the heartbreaking earlier tragedy in the film a somewhat necessary plot twist . Some of the production numbers may have made the movie a little longish but otherwise , Sayonara was wonderful educational experience about the ' 50s mores that permeated America and Japan at the time .
The Young Girls of Rochefort is a wonderful French musical possibly inspired by American jazz	This French musical inspired , I'm sure , by the American M-G-M musicals ( with Gene Kelly's presence being possible evidence of that ) takes a while but once you get into the dances and mostly dubbed singing ( Danielle Darrieux excepted ) the rest of the story and picture takes you to a realm that seems out of this world . The lead twin sisters Solange and Delphine , played by real-life sibs Francoise Dorleac and Catherine Deneuve , provide much of the appeal for me as they appear in various glamorous costumes-and in one scene wigs-for their very appealing numbers with music provided by Michel Legrand ( who actually gets referenced in a number ! ) . Ms . Darrieux is also very appealing as their mother , Yvonne . Nice to see West Side Story performer George Chakiris dancing as one of the two male leads and finally see Kelly actually doing his steps in actual French streets as opposed to the studio backlots in An American in Paris ( though it's a shame that part of his dialogue is dubbed since it's so obvious when that happens ) . His charm as a dancer is still evident even when doing simple steps and his pairing with Ms . Dorleac brings some romantic sizzle to the proceedings . And the many coincidences and missed opportunities that abound bring such delicious irony to the possible inevitable happy endings that make dreamers be glad to dream what they dream . In summary , The Young Girls of Rochefort is an American musical-inspired French delight ! P . S . I realized I had to change screen sizes in the middle of this movie when I found some of the subtitles were obviously not on screen . So I watched the beginning all over again to get the full treatment and I'm so glad I did !
Paris Blues make Poitier and Carroll luminous together	Having just reviewed Sidney Poitier in 1960's All the Young Men for Black History Month in commenting on African-Americans in film in chronological order , we're now at 1961 with another Poitier movie , Paris Blues . Actually , he's a co-star with Diahann Carroll , Joanne Woodard , and her real-life husband , Paul Newman . Poitier and Newman are American jazz musicians in the French city while Carroll and Woodard are U . S . tourists who fall for the leading men . The most interesting scenes , to me , were those between Poitier and Carroll about discussions of living in America to experience the emerging civil rights cause which Diahann's character Connie wants vs . staying in France where people are colorblind which Sidney's character Eddie prefers . The other romance between Newman and Woodard is the kind you've seen in other movies though they make the scenes work nonetheless . And how cool was it to see Louis Armstrong as Wild Man Moore play his trumpet with the Poitier and Newman characters trying to keep up on the saxophone and trombone , respectively . Also cool was the Duke Ellington score ( with possibly some of it done by his longtime associate , Billy Strayhorn ) that got him his sole Oscar nomination . Director Martin Ritt lets the scenes flow at a leisurely pace with only some subplots threatening to interrupt the flow ( such as the cocaine addiction of the band's guitarist ) . All in all , Paris Blues was one of the most pleasant surprises I've seen in a while . P . S . As a longtime Louisiana resident , I have to take note of both New Orleans native Armstrong and LSU graduate Woodard in their only film together . And I just found out Sidney Poitier turned 81 today so on that note , Happy Birthday , Mr . Tibbs !
The Boss is another charming and endearing episode of " Samantha Who ? "	As if her amnesia and attempts to get reacquainted with her friends and parents weren't enough , Sam's workplace gets a visit from the rarely seen partner of Chapman and Funk : Winston Funk ( Timothy Olyphant ) . Andrea coos like a teenage girl when she sees him as she reveals to Sam her crush on him and not just because of his money . ( " I'd love him even if he were a millionaire . " ) When Sam sees him in his office , Funk reveals an engagement ring for her since he's now divorced from his previous wife . Turns out he and Sam had an affair in her old life . Sam explains her condition to him and leaves before coming back to return the ring . Later , after getting another brush-off from Todd who stopped returning her phone calls , Sam talks to Dena , who is practicing writing for an online class , about her situation . Dena takes all this down as material for her story annoying Sam with her constant accents . At home , Sam gets a surprise as Funk shows up with her parents who are happy for her engagement especially since Dad is promised a ride in the helicopter ! Though she still refuses , Sam seems to fall under Winston's charm as he makes snow suddenly appear falling ( though he just saw it coming through a street lamp ) . So a spell seems to cast under the couple . . . then the parents ruin it with Mom taking a picture . At work the next day , Sam giggles at a joke told by Winston . That alone is enough for Andrea to figure out her relationship with him . She leaves , declaring her and Sam no longer friends . While discussing this latest development with Dena who's still writing her story , a limousine arrives to take Sam away . She refuses at first then accepts knowing Todd still doesn't want her back . In the limo , after Sam asks for a coffee from Winston ( the drink , not the franchise ) , she remembers her old self walking into Chapman's office and telling him not to give Andrea that promotion in New York , just so they can stay together . Sam starts to leave again but Funk tells his driver to take her to wherever she wants which turns out to be a cupcake shop where she and Andrea used to just smell since that was " like eating without the calories " . As the best friends reminisce and make up , Todd finds a paper that has the mother's picture of Sam and Winston on the front page . As Sam relaxes at home with a cup watching television , she hears a knock on the door . It's a snow-globe with a note to shake it . As she does , Todd comes in and reveals how jealous he is by kissing her ! Sam smiles as he leaves and the scene ends . . . This was another very funny episode of " Samantha Who ? " told with heart and romance galore ! Andrea is especially charming with her schoolgirl regression concerning Funk and her later hurt when she finds out about Samantha's inadvertent betrayal . And it's nice to see Dena find a new creative outlet for her spare time . She's quite hilarious with those accents ! And Olyphant , who I previously saw as the villain in Live Free and Die Hard , oozes such charm here that it's so easy to see why everyone seems to fall in love with him on first sight . I'm guessing we'll see him in a few more episodes . So with all that , " Samantha Who ? " just keeps getting better and better ! Chirstina Applegate can do no wrong as far as I'm concerned and it's nice to know ABC will renew this show for another season . Certainly the fact it's after " Dancing with the Stars " has something to do with that !
Grindhouse is a once-in-a-lifetime experience for Tarantino / Rodriguez fans	Wow ! Grindhouse is one of the most awesome movie theatre experiences in my life of 39 years ! This Quentin Tarantino / Robert Rodriguez joint effort is the closest I'll ever come to what it was like to see a double feature from the ' 70s of exploitation movie fare . The first thing shown is a bogus trailer for something called Machete , a revenge flick about an assassin turning back on his employers after one of them betrays his trust in a surprise shooting . Cheech Marin has an amusing appearance as a priest . " They've ( f-word ) the wrong Mexican " , indeed ! Oh , and it has an X rating ( what NC-17 was then ) . Then just after the rainbow-colored ' 70s " Our Feature Presentation " intro with the funky music ( boy , does that bring back childhood memories ! ) , Rose McGowan-looking all hot in her stripper ( or go-go ) outfit-dances oh so sexily during the opening credits for Planet Terror . Also appearing are Freddy Rodriguez , Bruce Willis , Naveen Andrews , Michael Biehn , Marley Shelton , and Stacy Ferguson , better known as Fergie from the Black Eyed Peas . Robert Rodriguez doesn't stint on the gore but many of it looks so fabulously over-the-top entertaining that you can't help but be highly awestruck by it all . Of course , there had to be a missing reel for the sex scene ! Oh well , maybe it will be on the DVD ! Next , come three " Prevues of Coming Attractions " ( There's that funky music with the psychedelic rainbow colors again ! ) First , is Werewolf Women of the S . S . with Sybil Danning and Nicholas Cage as a Kung Fu master . Talk about a politically incorrect portrayal of a white playing an Asian ! Then comes Don't , a promo for a haunted house horror movie so common during the ' 70s . Next , is Thanksgiving , a parody of various holiday slasher offerings from the ' 80s ( Halloween , Mother's Day , April Fools ' Day , My Bloody Valentine , Silent Night , Deadly Night and let's not forget , Friday the 13th and its sequels . . . ) See the parade turkey get beheaded ! See that topless cheerleader get knifed in the anus ! ( this scene got heavily edited for the MPAA ) Perhaps the most sick and hilarious fake trailer there was ! Finally , after a cartoon cougar morphed into a Restricted title card , we have Quentin Tarantino's Death Proof ( though there is another title that appears briefly before DP crudely appears on a black card ) . Like many Tarantino movies , this one has many conversations about various pop culture references like the movie Vanishing Point which heavily influenced this movie . Kurt Russell plays Stuntman Mike who likes to kill women either in or with his car . Among some of his victims are Sydney Tamiia Poitier and a blond Rose McGowan . Marley Shelton plays the same character she played in Planet Terror . Then there's a group of stunt women that includes Rosario Dawson and the double for Uma Thurman in the Kill Bill movies , Zoe Bell . The Tarantino dialogue can get a little monotonous here but it's worth it to see the climatic car chase that takes one's breath away . I especially loved the point-of-view shot of Zoe's from the hood of the car . So , in summation , Grindhouse is one of the most exhilarating experiences I've ever had in a movie theater short of actually experiencing a real grindhouse or drive-in . Loved the fake splices and scratches of most of Planet Terror , the previews , and some of Death Proof . Dig Rodriguez's score in his movie and Tarantino's choice of vintage songs in his . Well worth it to experience Grindhouse in a theatre near you ! Oh , and Quentin does fine cameos in both movies .
Invisible Ink is another entertaining short of Max Fleischer's Koko the Clown	Max Fleischer keeps losing the tip of his fountain pen in the inkwell . It seems Koko's been removing those tips from inside . Max doesn't want to play with him on the drawing board so he draws an exit door for him to go through . Koko just dances around so Max draws chains on him and uses a sticker to keep him in one place . Thinking of a better idea , Max then uses invisible ink to draw a bike and some gymnastic equipment so when Koko is set free those items disappear . Koko does , however , ride the invisible bike ! He then draws a line off the drawing board and on to various buildings which Max follows to the letter . The clown then finds other drawing boards where he copies himself hundreds of times . Just as Fleischer finds the real Koko , Koko dives in the invisible ink and disappears . . . Another funny live-action / animation hybrid from the early days of Max Fleischer that were real steps forward in the silent days of films . Well worth seeing for any animation buff .
Buffy the Vampire Slayer : Welcome to the Hellmouth is very good beginning for cult series	Sunday , September 17 , 2006 marked the last broadcast of the WB . It was marked by airing the pilots of the following classics : Felicity , Angel , Buffy the Vampire Slayer , and Dawson's Creek . Buffy the Vampire Slayer was originally a movie from 1992 starring Kristy Swanson and Luke Perry . That movie's writer , Joss Whedon , wasn't satisfied with the final result so he tried again with a TV series with himself as executive producer . Buffy Summers ( Sarah Michelle Gellar ) moves to Sunnydale from L . A . with her mother ( Kristine Sutherland ) , having been kicked out of her last high school . There she's befriended by Cordelia Chase ( Chrisma Carpenter ) who tries to introduce Buffy to her clique . But Buffy takes more of a shine to shy Willow ( Alyson Hannigan ) and her friends Xander ( Nicholas Brendan ) and Jesse ( Eric Balfour ) . As she enters the school library , she encounters a bespectacled man with a British accent named Rupert Giles ( Anthony Stewart Head ) who knows Buffy's a slayer and identifies himself as her watcher . Buffy really just wants a normal life . Giles explains what his and her duties are . Meanwhile , a dead body appears in a girl's locker . . . Very good first episode of what would be an outstanding series . Gellar , Hannigan , Brendan , and Head already make a fine team with Carpenter perfect as the stuck-up one . Also making first appearances are Angel ( David Boreanaz ) who is not yet identified as a vampire and Darla ( Julie Benz ) , not yet known as Angel's former lover . This was the first WB show that truly gave the network an identity as the one that teens could relate to . So it's fitting that it should air on the WB's last day . So long , WB . It's been nice knowing you for the past 11 years . . .
Kung Fu Panda is one of the best from Dreamworks Animation yet	While I admit to falling asleep at some scenes ( parts of Tai Lung's escape and some of Po's training ) , I was mostly highly amused and entertained by what Shifu ( Dustin Hoffman ) was teaching Po ( Jack Black ) . In fact , this was one of the most entertaining of the Dreamworks Animation features . Po gets befriended by five other of Shifu's students : Viper ( Lucy Liu ) , Monkey ( Jackie Chan ) , Crane ( David Cross ) , Mantis ( Seth Rogen ) , and Tigress ( Angelina Jolie ) . The villain , Tai Lung ( Ian McShane ) , was another student of Shifu's whose attitude got him jailed for 20 years . Also of interest is Mr . Ping , Po's restaurateur father ( James Hong ) , who turns out to be quite an inspiration to his son though it doesn't seem that way at first . Black's line readings and the animation movements of his panda character are some of the funniest I've seen and heard on the screen yet and the relationship between Po and Shifu are some of the best mixture of funny and touching especially the end scenes that end up quite differently than you'd expect ( perhaps the fact Kung Fu Panda is mainly meant for kids have something to do with it ) . So on that note , this movie comes highly recommended for the whole family though it's okay if you just watch this alone or with a friend as I did . P . S . I loved the 2-D animation that began this movie ( which included the unique way the Dreamworks logo was done here ) .
A Gun in His Hand is another " Crime Does Not Pay " short well worth seeking	This is another of M-G-M's " Crime Does Not Pay " shorts that appeared in the " Special Features " section of the DVD " Film Noir : Bringing Darkness to Light " . In this one , rookie cop Dennis Nordell ( Tom Trout ) , after graduating from police academy , goes back to his crooked friends in order to pull one heist after another of various warehouses . He seems to have thought it all out , but at the last minute , after he killed a veteran on the force and got transfered to homicide and then tries to finger a crook with a record , some small clues trip him up . . . Another compelling entry in the series that provides some added excitement of underscoring and narration by a mentor of some new recruits about Nordell with a lesson to them at the end . Well worth seeking out for anyone interested in these vintage stuff .
Heores : Better Halves is a bit slower but still moves plot along	As the last episode ended , Peter has answered Issac's phone with Present Hiro on the other line . Peter's message to him , " Save the cheerleader , save the world . " This was the same one Future Hiro had said to Peter previously . Peter also relays to Present Hiro and Ando about Hiro's future self . After he hangs up , Peter asks Issac if there are any missing paintings . Issac mentions Simone taking them to the art gallery to be sold . In Las Vegas , as Hiro and Ando try to drive away , they are stopped by the cowboy-hatted gambler that Ando and Hiro had defeated some hours before . He challenges them to another game . Hiro once again stops time during the card game and changes the cards position . Ando later notices a gun under one of the players ' side and excuses himself and Hiro to the bathroom . While there we hear some violent sounds and see the bathroom door get dented . As Hiro and Ando get out we see all of the players dead on the floor full of blood . Claire agrees to meet her " bio-parents " and asks if there was anything in either parents history she should know about . The bio-father mentions some of his family having diabetes . After meeting is over , Claire's current dad is asked by bios if they'd done well . Also during this time , he gets a call from Eden , the young lady who's been with Mohinder , and she tells him about Peter and Hiro as well as the " Save the cheerleader " phrase . Meanwhile , back in Vegas , Niki gets a surprise visit from her ex-husband who tells her that it was a woman , not him , who took a suitcase containing millions of dollars and killed his ex-cohorts . After making love with him , Niki sees her reflection as well as that of her different self . She later confronts her alone as this different self confesses to both killing those thieves associated with her ex and the gamblers that Hiro and Ando met . Niki's bad self then finds the hidden suitcase , confronts ex as she tries to kill him , and finds herself knocked out by him when he phases his fist through her body . Ex then takes Micah who cries when he sees his mother down . Back in New York , Issac answers the door . It is Eden . . . A bit slower than previous episodes but still compelling enough to move some plot lines along . So Eden is in cahoots with Claire's dad . Whether this means there's something evil going between them or what may be answered in future installments . And what's going on with Matt the cop at the convenience store where we found him last week having took the potential robber's gun and then fainted as he keeps hearing fellow customers ' thoughts on him being the robber . Maybe we'll find out next week . I can hardly wait . . .
Joe marks a great performance of the late Peter Boyle and the debut of Susan Sarandon	Though I saw this movie about 4 years ago long before I started commenting on IMDb , I decided to review it now which is unusual for me since before now I often reviewed something just after seeing it . What can I say ? Well , the best performance is that of the late Peter Boyle as the title character who , after finding out about a man's killing the drug-dealing boyfriend of his daughter , wants to bond with him even though he's a Madison Avenue executive who has nothing in common with the very lower-class conservative Joe . In fact , there are plenty of funny scenes of Joe at this guy's party making smart alecky remarks there . Oh , and it should be noted that the actress that plays the daughter who they're looking for after she disappeared from the hospital after overdosing on some drugs is none other than Susan Sarandon making her film debut ! This was a pretty hard-hitting movie for the time it was made ( late ' 60s-early ' 70s ) and was compelling work from scripter Norman Wexler ( later of Saturday Night Fever ) and director John G . Avildsen ( later to do Save the Tiger , Rocky , and The Karate Kid ) . Certainly the ending packs a wallop even today after all these years ! Highly recommended for anyone curious about the counterculture of that time . P . S . Among the cultural artifacts seen here are a Raggedy Ann doll , a box of Ritz crackers , a bottle of Heinz ketchup , and , unique for the era , a Nixon poster asking , " Would you buy a used car from this man ? "
Marvin Digs hints at Ralph Bakshi's work post-Terrytoons	In honor of Ralph Bakshi's 69th birthday on this day in 2007 , Jerry Beck linked from YouTube on Cartoon Brew this , Marvin Digs , the first one Bakshi made for the fading Parmount Cartoon Studio ( formerly Famous Studios ) . Very much of its time , the title character is a teenager with hair all over him who exasperates his father because he lays around all day without working for a living and gives flowers to everyone he meets outside . So he gets him to do what his wife wanted her husband to do while she's gone : Paint the house . When the mayor on TV , however , asks his audience to decorate the city as they would their own home , Marvin enlists his friends to help decorate the entire apartment building in psychedelic colors to the horrors of his dad . After the mayor comes by and praises the effort though , dad has a newfound admiration for him as he tells stories of his youth to him as the cartoon ends . . . What a radical effort from Bakshi away from his former home studio Terrytoons in the waning days of theatrical short animation from the major studios as Marvin Digs hints at his more ambitious efforts in feature films like Fritz the Cat and Heavy Traffic . Wonderful vocal rock score by The Life Cycle and such imaginative backgrounds by Cosmo Anzilotti , James Simon , John Zago , and Bakshi himself . Well worth seeking out if you're a die-hard Ralph Bakshi fan .
The Bandmaster is a very good Walter Lantz / Andy Panda cartoon	Just watched this Walter Lantz / Andy Panda cartoon on YouTube as linked from Mayerson on Animation blog . Like Mickey Mouse in The Band Concert , Mr . Panda is the conductor of a symphony orchestra though here it's in a circus . They're playing the overture to " Zampa " . While an early version of Donald Duck was the nemesis of Mickey in Band Concert , here it's just a series of unrelated gags that mostly hit the mark . Among them : An audience member attempts to give one band member a " hot " foot but a miniature fan inside the shoe puts it out , a female trapeze artist loses her hair when she goes down , and a drunk tightrope walker sees pink elephants dancing to a particularly dainty section of the piece . Andy himself is used sparingly but has some moments at the end . So on that note , The Bandmaster is recommend .
Surprise lived up to the episode's name in this edition of " Swingtown "	Having finally watched this episode after surviving Hurrricane Gustav ( a tree fell in my parents ' house but neither me nor my dad were anywhere near the master bedroom where the disaster happened , thank God , and my mom was at work at Women's Hospital at the time ) , here's the synopsis in a nutshell : This being the day of Janet's surprise birthday party , Susan tells Roger that they should not see each other for awhile after that since she's mixed about their kiss the last time . During lunch hour , Janet is seen by her male co-worker at the paper she's a secretary at giving advice to many of her fellow female associates who hang on to her every word . That gives him an idea to offer her the replacement stint of the " Dear Trudy " column since the last one took a sabbatical because of her drinking problem . Janet wants to " sleep on it " and turns down a drink offer from her co-worker but invites him to her " surprise " party . Meanwhile , as the swinging Deckers say goodbye to the black couple that we saw a couple of episodes ago , Susan comes over to discuss with Trina her kiss with Roger . She also mentions to her how easy it seems with her and Tom , then apologizes when Trina says how she likes to think she's more complicated than that . While this is going on , at work Bruce strikes a conversation with Melinda as she passes by his bar . Bruce tells her about overhearing her offer to move to another company and he tells her not to . Melinda wants a very good reason not to and asks her to come see her later that night at the bar . Bruce tells her about the dinner he and Susan are supposed to have with the Thompsons later ( he's unaware of the surprise party his wife and Roger are planning ) as Melinda tells her offer to him might not be so open the next day . With school just two weeks away , B . J . and Samantha and Ricky and Samantha's cousin Lisa fool around with Ricky's family's C . B . unit . ( with Sam's C . B . name being " Goldilocks " and Ricky's " Lady Killer " ! ) With B . J . and Sam at their neighborhood and Ricky and Lisa at the beach their signals are still clear indeed . So clear that when Ricky accidentally keeps his radio on , he and Lisa reveal secrets ( Ricky ran away when Lisa took her top off , Sam's going to move due to Mom's drug problems ) that first amuse and then startle Sam and B . J . Supposedly during that time , B . J . ' s sister Laurie is with former teacher / now lover Doug playing volleyball and during one moment when Doug gets a drink for her , Laurie says " I love you too " when Doug was actually saying " I only have Yoo-Hoo " . Since their voices weren't very clear at the time , they both shrug it off as they go to their game . During that game , one of Doug's teammates mentions how Laurie seems to last longer than a milk carton " with only a month left of the expiration date " compared to his previous relationships . That gets her wondering about her future with Doug . Doug eventually tells her he's rejecting his teaching position to be with her . They kiss . Before we get to that night's party , let's see about Roger's landscaping job offer he revealed that morning : he's accepted but the project is in Cincinnati . He reveals this to Susan but not Janet who's also still unaware of their kiss and thinks they've been together during much of her absence because of the planning . Roger wants Susan to tell him of her feelings for this possible change . Susan tells him he should discuss this with his wife as she leaves to check on Bruce who's talking on the phone with Melinda as his wife overhears him saying how much he needs her . Susan then comes back to Roger and tells he should take the job . During much of this , Ricky has taken more than a few drinks and almost ruins the party but mother Janet sets him straight and tells him to do something about his friendship with B . J . if he doesn't want to lose him to Samantha forever . Trina , having just talked with Bruce about his problems with Tom likewise with Susan , watches this and marvels at Janet at how she handles things . Janet mentions how she just takes things as they come . It's at this point that we found out why Trina seemed somber faced in some scenes : she's pregnant ! Janet congratulates her before asking if she knows who the father is . Trina confirms it's Tom's mentioning " We abstained at the right time . " After the party's over , Trina hints to Tom about her condition but Tom shrugs it off as joking . Bruce tells Susan he needs to go back to work and not to expect him home so soon with neither revealing the phone call . Janet does indeed accept her new job offer . And Ricky gives B . J . and Sam his C . B . unit so they can talk long-distance . . . First off , I wonder just what Doug is thinking when he decides to refuse his teaching offer just to be with Laurie . This can't go well , I tell you . And Ricky has actually grown a spine with the way he handled his jealously over B . J . and Samantha . Good for him . And I agree with someone at tvguide . com about how the writers on the show can suddenly treat the Deckers like idiots by having Trina become pregnant when they know about protection like the pill that was prevalent during this ' 70s setting . While part of me thought the hug between Janet and Trina was a bit soon , it was nice to see nonetheless and hope their friendship only grows . That Bruce really is selfish here , isn't he ? Poor Susan . Her mixed emotions between her husband and Roger are really testing her , aren't they ? Judging from previews for the next episode , they're going to be even more intense . Until next time . . .
Little Daddy is one of the best of Stymie's " Our Gang " shorts	This Hal Roach comedy short , Little Daddy , is the one hundred fifth in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series and the seventeenth talkie . With their father in jail ( no mention of the mother ) , Farina is Stymie's sole caretaker . In the mornings , the older brother prepares breakfast using various makeshift contraptions that also gives Stymie a shower ( who uses an umbrella for the occasion ) . Since the authorities are going to take the little brother away , Farina gives him a farewell party but Stymie eats everything when the rest of the gang finally arrives . Their initial upset over that turns over to the orphanage official who gets a handful from the gang . After Farina gets Miss Crabtree , she resolves to find a nice home for Stymie but not before he stows a ride on the official's car trunk ! This was a pretty touching " Our Gang " entry that nevertheless provided nonstop laughs mainly courtesy of Stymie's quips . Particularly funny is Farina's telling of Noah and the Ark that Stymie , because his older brother says " Yeah " before mentioning the leading character's name , confuses the two as brothers ! What a great " Who's On First ? " - type routine ! There's also a gratuitous scene of Chubby lip-syncing to Charlie Chase's vocals on " Asleep in the Deep " . It obviously could have been cut without hurting the story . A final note : During the 1970s , this short , along with A Tough Winter , was banned from syndication . The other one has Stepin Fetchit in a stereotype role that is considered offensive today but in this one , the poor kids just happen to be black and , other than the fact that their father is in jail , are not negative in characterization . Good thing Leonard Maltin put this on a " Little Rascals " VHS tape issued in 1995 with an introduction explaining the kind of humor accepted during the shorts ' time in production . So on that note , I highly recommend Little Daddy .
Retreat to Move Forward was another nearly-great episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , Jack invites Liz to a keynote speaker address meeting where he'll encounter some elderly members of a Six Segma club , Jenna , on Frank's suggestion , looks up Wikipedia for research on her preparation in playing Janis Joplin not knowing Frank put some lies there , and Tracy , after a visit to Dr . Spaceman , finds out he has diabetes but even with Kenneth's telling of a which who eats brains for those how don't eat vegetables , Tracy still eats his candy . . . Another very funny episode of " 30 Rock " with my favorite scene being when Liz was making that Lego train and she mentions dropping it because she thought it was her penis then saying , " Robot penis . " in a monotone voice ! And how about when Jack embarrasses himself by accidentally leaving his body mic on when practicing his speech in front of a mirror . And that twist about Frank being too embarrassed about macking with Jenna to tell his fellow writers when Jenna feels she should be the embarrassed one so she tells them ! And then there's Kenneth posing as the witch . So with all that said , Retreat to Move Forward was another very funny episode of " 30 Rock " .
Gavin Volure with Steve Martin was another very funny episode of " 30 Rock "	In this one , Liz and Jack are invited to a party at Gavin Volure's ( Steve Martin ) mansion where among the guests is John McEnroe who's an art lover who yells ! Volure is interested in Liz who agrees to spend some time with him despite his agoraphobia . Actually , that's a cover since he's under house arrest for embezzling and racketeering ! Meanwhile , Tracy fears for his kids after watching a Melendez brothers special on TV . Good thing he has a Japanese sex doll doppelganger in tow . . . After the partly underwhelming Jennifer Anniston / " Night Court " reunion episode , we're back in shape with this very funny Steve Martin installment of " 30 Rock " . And that Tracy Jordan sex doll was the funniest thing in the show this year . Especially loved " The More You Know " public service ad done by both Jordan and the doll . Thanks to Hulu for providing me the eps I couldn't watch because of house renovation that resulted from the tree that fell on us during Hurricane Gustav . At least I can watch the last two that aired on the disc I taped them when our house was coming back to normal . So until next time . . .
The Herring Murder Mystery is a rare Columbia cartoon that's nearly excellent	This Columbia Screen Gems cartoon begins with a fish screaming as she gets marinated and put in a sardine box . The man who does it feels guilty and as he starts to walk out he hears footsteps that he repeats a few times . Then smoke appears and when it fades a talking fish that's taller than the man shows his card that says " Sherlock Shad " , a detective investigating a " murdered herring " . He and a fellow fish put the man in a barrel and toss him underwater where he ends up in trial with other fish and a shark lawyer . The rest of the short is filled with bad puns ( like " boiled lobster " or , oh , I can't remember ) and a fish jury constantly singing , " There's something at the end of a hook . . . but it's shad roe / shad roe / shad roe to me / ! " ( shad roe basically meaning baloney ) This is one cartoon from Columbia that has the kind of nuttiness that you expect from Tex Avery or Bob Clampett from Warner Bros . or MGM . In fact , there's an Avery-type gag of no sound coming out of the man's mouth with the judge and lawyer asking why and the soundtrack line basically saying there's nothing wrong and telling the man to just speak clearly ! What a hilarious surprise that was ! Found this on Daily Motion as linked from a blog by someone named Thad . Highly recommended .
The Notorious Bettie Page is an interesting look at the title character's period	First , I've got to say that the black and white cinematography on the Tennesse and New York scenes and the color ones on Miami have an authentic period feel for the ' 50s that takes you back to a time that seems so long ago . And Gretchen Mol looks stunningly and uncannily close to the title character in all her attitude and revealing poses . Director / co-writer Mary Harron brings some of the contrasts of attitudes concerning what constitutes obscene material by having the Irving Klaw character mentioning that while some bondage scenes of the Broadway musical Kiss Me , Kate is considered acceptable , his bondage photos are considered too raunchy for mailing for certain customers ! Another person who's prosecuting the pictures defends a slave girl scene in a Tarzan movie as being in a " film meant for families " ! Any abuse Ms . Bettie Page suffered growing up is mainly implied though she seems to have mostly a sunny disposition concerning both her career and life . Nice to see Sarah Paulson ( Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip ) as legendary Playboy photographer Bunny Yeager , Lilly Taylor as Irving's sister Paula , and John Cullum ( formerly of Northern Exposure ) as a Nashville preacher during Bettie's teen years . If not a complete biographical look at the life of Ms . Page , it's certainly a very compelling look at the times and conventions she lived through . Update - / 08 : I just found out Ms . Page died . All I can say is , Rest in Peace , Pin-Up Queen .
The Fighting Irish ends a hilarious first cycle of 30 Rock	This will be the last 30 Rock to air until late April as the next several weeks will have " Andy Barker , P . I . " show in its stead . Another funny episode has Jack telling Liz she has to fire some of her staff . Liz doesn't know who to let go and everyone around is extra nice to her as a result . Then she meets the Flower Guy who she has a crush on and his girlfriend , the other Liz that was supposed to get the flowers Lemon got instead on Valentines Day . Turns out the other Liz works under Lemon as an accountant . Tracy wants to find a religion . Jack's brother comes back to mention their father is dead . That's all I'll mention of the plot . Kudos to guest stars Nathan Lane as Jack's brother , Anna Chlumsky as the other Liz ( remember her in the title role in My Girl ? ) , current SNLer Jason Sudeikis as Flower Guy , and former SNLers Molly Shannon and Siobhan Fallon ( no relation to Jimmy ) as the Donaghy sisters . Loved Pete mentioning Liz's eyes after firing the other Liz looking like " that astronaut woman on diapers who attempted to kill the other woman " ( not a direct quote but you know what I mean ) and Jack insisting his last name is pronounced DON-A-GY ( hard g instead of an h ) . Keep up the good work , Ms . Fey . Hope ratings improve when you come back .
The Sky Princess is one of George Pal's best Puppetoons	The Sky Princess is a George Pal Puppetoon in which the title character is kept asleep in a chamber up in the sky ( or space ) by a wicked witch . A prince manages to wake her up with his violin as he plays some instrumental music that when put to words for Walt Disney's Sleeping Beauty became " Once Upon a Dream " . With help from an apprentice magician , the prince rescues the princess from her slumber as she nonchalantly breaks the glass from her chamber without hurting herself ! It's at this point that the witch gets killed by a lightning as she flies out ! So they all dance happily ever after as " Once Upon a Dream " plays out with the Paramount logo appearing . One of Pal's most charming cartoons with puppet animation worthy of the best Disney cel ones . Definitely worth seeing for any George Pal enthusiasts .
Goodbye , My Friend was another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , Jack bonds with Frank as they and the other writers watch Harry and the Hendersons when they find out their fathers abandoned them as children , Liz bonds with a pregnant donut shop registrar hoping to adopt her baby when it's born , Kenneth gives Tracy his first birthday party and makes Jenna share it with her actual one , and besides Frank , Pete and even the long absent Josh have roles ! I'll stop there and say this was another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock " that mixes the plots of both Juno and that other movie I mentioned to wonderful effect especially when the star of that latter film , John Lithgow , makes a cameo here . Also good in her brief role was Patti LuPone as Frank's mother . And seeing Tracy Morgan and Jane Krakowski in their wacky situations was pure gold ! So on that note , I highly recommend this " Goodbye , My Friend " episode of " 30 Rock " .
Atama-yama is one wonderfully weird animated short from Japan	I just discovered this animation artist from Japan , Koji Yamamura , from Amid on Cartoon Brew . One of Yamamura's animated shorts showcased there was this one as linked from YouTube , Atama-yama ( Mt . Head ) , that was nominated for the Oscar as Best Animated Short for 2002 . It tells how a man who chews cherry pits keeps having some leaves grow on top of his bald head that he frequently cuts off and saves in a jar . After a while , he lets the leaves grow into a tree but then people start hanging around on his head so he tears the tree off leaving a hole with water . As all this happens , a narrator tells what goes on in various pitches . This was such an interestingly weird short that I may watch it again to catch up on all the images . Yamamura is truly an artist among his country's animators . Uniquely funny especially with the way it all ended . So on that note , I highly recommend Atama-yama .
Santa Claus Conquers the Martians is an essential " MST3K " episode	I watched this episode on a 2-DVD set of " Mystery Science Theater 3000-The Essentials " of which the other disc had the short Hired , Part II and Manos , The Hands of Fate . In the invention exchange , Dr . Forester and TV's Frank show a machine that turns great presents into crappy ones while Joel and the ' bots have additions to The Island of Misfit Toys from the Rankin / Bass " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " . During the movie we get references to " Twin Peaks " , the LAPD , dyslexic kids , Larry Storch , Dr . Stranglove , etc . ( incidentally , the same stock footage of planes refueling also appeared in that Kubrick masterpiece ) . Second segment had Joel and the ' bots singing " A Patric Swayze Christmas " with Crow especially enjoying warbling about kicking butts as Swayze does in his favorite movie Road House ! Another one after that had them doing poems of what Christmas means to them with Servo getting upset at the possibility of Santa being killed if he came to the Satellite of Love ! My favorite riff in the entire show came from Crow when , after some noticeable splices during a news anchor's segment in which he mentioned two children seeming to " disappear in thin air " , he says , " Just like some frames of this film ! " LOL ! John Call plays Santa here , Bill McCutcheon plays the dim-witted Droppo , Ned Wertimer ( Ralph the Doorman on " The Jeffersons " ) plays a reporter who interviews Santa and , in her film debut , 10-year-old Pia Zadora plays one of the Martian children . And , yes , Joel and the ' bots make fun of her Golden Globe award . Not every riff line works but this was one of the funniest episodes of " MST3K " I've seen and there are even some touching moments that were a little unexpected to me here . And I loved the snow globe on Tom Servo's head . The movie itself , both intentionally and not , can be funny on its own especially with scenes of Droppo or the villains or both . And you gotta dig a theme song that spells Santa right then calls him Santy in the next line as the words are printed on the screen ! So on that note , Santa Claus Conquers the Martians was truly an essential episode of " MST3K " .
The Story of George Washington provides a unique kid's view from his drawings	This is a unique cartoon in the Paramount archives in that most of it is an animated version of a child's drawings ( or at least what they'd look like according to adult writer / director Jack Mendelsohn ) . It's also narrated by a child who mixes words like saying how George Washington was " the most famous dead American living " or how " Honesty is the best Polly Seed " . LOL ! Or how about when the boy says that George " mustard " his troops with a visual of him spreading that sauce on his first soldier before the next one shows his hot dog or when Paul Revere asks for some minutemen with a couple of them saying , " Just a minute ! " This animated short was part of a brief series called " Jacky's Whacky World " . I found this on the Daily Motion site . The Story of George Washington is well worth seeking out .
Oh , Teacher is another funny Disney Oswald outing	In this Disney Oswald short , the rabbit is , it seems , an elementary school student about to take his fellow rabbit girlfriend on a bike ride to the learning place . A fellow cat student is his rival for the girl . There are plenty of gags inspired by the Felix the Cat cartoon series like a question mark over the cat's head used to become a rope or string in order to trip Oswald or the word ' help ' ( from the girlfriend's scream after falling in the water ) used by the rabbit to ride like a bike , after losing his , in order to rescue her . Another funny outing from the master of animation before Mickey Mouse put him on the map for good . Well worth seeing for Disney and animation fans in general .
The C Word is another excellent episode of 30 Rock	Jack invites Tracy to a party of the network CEO . Tracy accepts . Liz has been driving the writers crazy with her demands for scripts and overhears one of them calling her a very nasty word . It's the one that rhymes with " runt " which is what the animal wrangler says when the other word is spoken . Kenneth is awkward around fellow page Grace Park and tries but can't avoid her . Tracy makes a fool of Jack when he wants to know why there's only one other black man at the party . Liz tries to overcompensate for her bossiness by giving various treats . I think that's all I'll reveal for now except to say this delayed episode was one of the funniest I've seen though still not close to Tracy Does Conan levels . This was Rachel Dratch's third ( or second , depending on when this was originally supposed to air ) appearance as the animal wrangler and is hilarious in the constant saying of " runt " . Rip Torn is sublime as the CEO and everything between Tracy Morgan and Alec Baldwin is way funny . And Tina Fey's speech at the end proves her worth as an actress as opposed to just being the writer and producer of this often ratings-challenged show . ( Damn you CSI and Grey's Anatomy ! )
Watch a pre - " I Love Lucy " Desi Arnaz entertain you in Jitterumba	Found out about this musical short on Mark Evanier's website " News from Me " as linked from YouTube . With the exception of the " Managua , Nicaragua " musical segment which takes place in a classroom with the star Desi Arnaz as the teacher , this appears to be a concert film directed entirely straight through ( give or take a few wipe dissolves ) a single performance in real time during one of Desi's shows with natural audience responses throughout . Another Cuban singer named Dulcina ( who just finished a New York engagement with " Xavier Cumquat " ! ) warbles one number in Spanish , then American singer Judy Clark does a comic turn about hating the rhumba just before Arnaz interrupts and showcases with Duncina how the " Lindy Hoop " is more " back-breaking " than their Latin dance ! The whole short was very entertaining and showcased Desi's comic talents that unquestionably made him such a great partner with wife Lucille Ball a few years later on television . So for any Desi Arnaz completetists out there , I highly recommend Jiterumba . P . S . The YouTube print was from the home movie company Castle Films which renamed this short Melody Masters and misspelled Arnaz with an " e " , instead of an " a " , before the " z " .
Tire Trouble is another winner in the " Our Gang " series	This Hal Roach comedy short , Tire Trouble , is the twenty-second entry in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . In this one , Mickey drives his own makeshift car with Mary , Joe , and Jackie in tow . Among the unusual gadgets : a boxing glove attached to the outside front that knocks out any passersby ! When they stop where Sunshine Sammy and Farina are standing , Sammy gets punched by that glove twice and also gets hit by the front grille that moves ! He's making a delivery to a rich man named J . William McAllister . This man believes he's very sick because of what his doctor and wife says but after the gang come in uninvited , they look at him and think otherwise . He agrees and since all his cars are elsewhere , rides in Mickey's car . After being frightened by a trolley that almost hits the car ( Mickey : " I can come closer than that . " ) and being stopped by a cop ( " You should drive , that kid will do the loop de loop next . " ) , they arrive at the amusement park where the real fun begins . . . Another very funny winner from director Robert McGowan , this is a wonderful with-fulfillment episode that explores the relationship of the old and sickly millionaire with a bunch of kids that give him a new appreciation of life . Loved seeing them all go down a large slide , going on a moving circular floor , and riding the roller coaster with a point-of-view shot that rivals the dog fight scene in Star Wars ( or if you prefer , Episode IV : A New Hope ) for massive thrills . Also loved the way the inter-titles , when Mr . McAllister is truly feeling excited as he descends quickly on the ride , prints " Hot-Diggity " in such a crooked way that conveys the full meaning . Then there's scene stealing Farina , who's left on the moving circular floor while everyone else is on the coaster , moving slowly after it ends and then the director conveys that dizziness by showing the point-of-view of the picture going slowly around . I've really got to give special props to the actor that played McAllister but there's no name on the cast list , either on IMDb or in the book " The Little Rascals : The Life and Times of Our Gang " by Leonard Maltin and Richard W . Bann , of who played him . So on that note , I highly recommend Tire Trouble . P . S . Once again , kudos for the YouTube poster who added the familiar LeRoy Shield music from the " Little Rascals " talkies for this short .
A Date with Dizzy is interesting short for Dizzy Gillespie / John Hubley fans	I found out about this rare John Hubley / Dizzy Gillespie short from Cartoon Brew and viewed it on YouTube . In it , a commercial director is trying to get Gillespie and his band to score music for an animated spot for " Instant Rope Ladder " . Also present is the product's ad representative . The band plays their first music submission which the director says is too long . The next one is then considered too short . Gillespie then plays one that has nothing to do with rope ladder so the filmmaker shows three commercials that Hubley had actually filmed for his Storyboard Studio in Los Angeles . The first is for E-Z Pop , a popcorn product for stove heating with some of the most entertaining jazz riffs I've ever heard in a TV spot . Then there's Heinz Worcestershire , which the animated spokesperson has trouble pronouncing at first that's quite hilarious . Finally , there's one for Speedway " 79 " , a gas company spot with some of the most entertaining abstract animation I've ever seen . At this point , Gillespie gets it and plays one that gets the ad representative singing along ! The end . Well worth seeing for Hubley / Gillespie fans , A Date with Dizzy is also a wonderful satiric look at the advertising industry . Don't miss it !
Francois Truffaut's Fahrenheit 451 is a nearly fine adaption of Ray Bradbury's novel	Having not seen this movie in 25 years ( when it aired , I think , on cable station WGN-TV in Chicago ) , I had an inkling to watch this again when my local paper , The ( Baton Rouge ) Advocate , had an item on their opinion page with the headline , " Smoking hot book event " . It mentioned that Ray Bradbury's original book was the selection of " The Big Read : One Book / One Community " which is a program that encourages a discussion among readers of the same title . Today , February 9 , was the official start of this event which will last through April . The " Smokin ' Hot Kick-Off " Film Screening and Panel Discussion started around 2 in the afternoon at the BREC Independence Park Theatre and Cultural Center when , after a reception that included hot chili , a free screening of Francois Truffaut's version was shown with Louisiana Public Broadcasting president Beth Courtney taking a call from Bradbury just before the movie began . Bascally , the author said that children should start reading at least at 3 or 4 because after that they won't be as motivated . He also mentioned writing a new one called " We'll Always Have Paris " , a title inspired by the fact that every year when his wife was still alive , they'd visit the city at least once during that time . Ms . Courtney also mentioned to the author of the possibility of maybe filming a new version of his novel in Baton Rouge because of the tax revenue the city gets . Mr . Bradbury mentioned that since he's 85 and now on a wheelchair , he can't travel as much anymore . Then Beth thanked him for the call and the movie started . After which there was a forum discussion that I stayed for 30 minutes before I had to leave for work . Now that I've gotten that out of the way , let's discuss the film : It starts with an announcer mentioning the standard movie credits , as opposed to being printed on screen , with a rooftop antenna moving closer each time . Then as Bernard Herrmann's haunting music plays , we see firemen going down the road . A man is in his house eating . He gets a call to get out . After he's gone , the firemen come in , put various books that were hidden in places like behind an old television screen in one pile , and burn them . Okay , I've now realized this review may be a little long so I'll just state my opinion : Truffaut may have thought the English-language dialogue may have been stilted but that seemed perfect for the way various people are being controlled by the way books have been banned from ever entering their thoughts . I almost cried when that old lady decided to burn herself among her pile of books instead of letting herself be forced to leave . And Montag's transformation , as portrayed by Oscar Werner , comes gradually when he first starts reading Charles Dickens ' " David Copperfield " ( including the publisher and copyright date ) and then completely after he confronts his wife's lady friends by reading a book passage that makes one of them cry . Julie Christie herself is fine in portraying both Linda Montag and Clarisse , a girl Montag met on the monorail and befriends after she's let go of her teaching position . By the way , the boy who runs from her after she briefly returns to her former school is Mark Lester who would gain worldwide fame in the title role of Oliver ! a couple of years later . One of the most disorienting scenes is when Montag , after work , discovers his wife lying on the floor , apparently passed out from prescription drugs , and , after the doctors have cured her , she just goes on as if nothing happened and becomes so bubbly she just can't wait to bed him ! Then there's the now-common large wide screen TV and the characters on it asking " Linda " a question of whether she agrees with them or not and then saying she answered in the affirmative even when she doesn't say anything . At the end when one of the book people mentioned being " The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury " , that got a little chuckle from the audience . With all that I've just mentioned , I'll just say Truffaut did a pretty good job in adapting " Fahrenheit 451 " .
Ain't Misbehavin ' is entertaining Waller " soundie " with Myra Johnson providing additional vocals	This last short I'm reviewing from the Kino Video DVD " Hollywood Rhythm Vol . 1 : The Best of Jazz and Blues " was actually a " soundie " ( music videos of the day played on specially made jukeboxes ) starring Fats Waller playing and singing the title song with a bevy of girls , one of whom is Myra Johnson , fighting for his attention . Johnson threatens one of them before joining in song for the finish . She has a good singing voice that's perfectly matched with Waller's . After his appearance in the feature film Stormy Weather a couple years later , Waller would die of pneumonia before appreciation for his achievements were truly publicly acknowledged . It's films like these that keep his image alive for anyone really wanting to see him . Thanks , Mr . Waller for all the great music .
Samson and Delilah was a nearly excellent start for the second season of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	In a wonderful silent slo-mo sequence scored with a song by Garbage , we see Cameron wake up after the explosion in the van and , after we see Sarah and John take care of their kidnappers , Cameron sees them and as we cut to her point-of-view , the words she sees says , " MISSION : TERMINATE " ! That was a great shock for me as John and his mom rush out and drive . There's another great sequence in the middle when , as Cameron is smashed between John's and Sarah's trucks , she unemotionally declares her love for John as he tries to take her chip out before succeeding . Also compelling were the scenes Charlie had with both that FBI agent and Derek Reese . And then there's Shirley Manson , lead singer of the beginning scene's song , playing Catherine Weaver who turns out to be a very formidable enemy indeed ! If you know about the villain in T2 , you'll surely know what Weaver is capable of ! I wish the computer I watched this episode on had a louder volume . ( the power in our house was off when this aired due to Hurricane Gustav ) Other than that , this was a very enjoyable start for the second season of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " .
Ub Iwerks ' Skeleton Frolics is a worthy successor to his earlier Skeleton Dance	Having just seen Walt Disney's The Skeleton Dance on the Saturday Morning Blog as linked from YouTube , I used those same sources to watch a remake done in Technicolor for the Columbia cartoon unit and animated by the same man-Ub Iwerks . The colors , compared to the earlier black and white , are really used imaginatively here and many of the new gags-like when one of the skeletal band players hits a wrong note constantly or when one loses his head and takes another one's off or when one dances with the other with part of that other gone-are just as funny as the previous short . It does get a little repetitious near the end . Still , Skeleton Frolics is well worth seeing for any animation buff who wants to compare this with the earlier Silly Symphony .
The Demon Hand was another compelling episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	As the episode begins , Cameron is dressed as a cop . She's going to the police station to put the power out with her hand so she can get the dismembered hand from the Terminator she killed . A look at the sheet list reveals it's in the possession of Agent Ellison . After Cameron goes home and tells Sarah about the hand , Sarah tells her to look for the man who took the Turk from Andy , Dimitri . Cameron poses as a ballet dancer to find his sister , Maria . It's there she overhears her and Dimitri talking about their troubles with the Russian mob in their native language . Agent Ellison watches some tapes of Sarah when she was put in a mental institution and watched by a Dr . Silberman . He goes to where the doctor now resides : a cabin in the woods . Silberman acts kindly towards him initially then cuts his knee after poisoning him with tea to find out if he's a machine . Ellison then gets tied up and almost killed when Silberman sets fire to his own house . Sarah saves the agent after punching Silberman before taking back the hand to later burn . Ellison then turns Silberman in the same room Sarah was held in . After Cameron gets info from Dimitri about where the Turk is , she leaves him and his sister just as the mob comes up to kill them . During much of this time , John watches one of the tapes of his mother that she earlier took from Ellison's house and is saddened to find out she had years before singed away parental rights when she left him in the care of some now-dead foster parents . And Derek and Cameron each declare that they knew each other from before and Derek tells her , " You may have fooled the others but you haven't fooled me . " Though he must wonder how human-like she's becoming when he sees her ballet dancing to some familiar music . . . While this was more of a drama with expository dialogue that references T2 : Judgement Day , most of it was compellingly played . Certainly the scenes involving Silberman and Ellison were some of the most shocking I've seen so far in this series . And how wonderful to see Summer Glau put her dancing skills to good use here ! No wonder she has such a nice figure . Brian Austin Green gets better with each episode and has managed to ditch his previous role as 90210's David Silver forever ! Can't wait for the two-part season ( hopefully not series ) finale so until next time . . .
Happy New Year , Charlie Brown ! was another fine animated " Peanuts " holiday special	Well , New Year's Eve is coming up but poor Charlie Brown is stuck with having to read " War and Peace " ( which is about a thousand pages ) for his school book report . On top of that , Peppermint Patty invites him for her and Marcie's party while Linus tries to avoid Sally and her calling him her " Sweet Baboo " . Oh , and there's a certain " Little Red Haired Girl " that Charlie's crazy about . . . Another funny and insightful " Peanuts " special with a wonderful script by creator Charles Schulz , direction by Sam Jaimes and usual helmer Bill Melendez , and a not bad musical score by Ed Bogas and Desiree Goyette who also wrote a couple of songs as well as sang on one of them . Too bad no one thought to put the late Vince Guaraldi's " Linus and Lucy " in there but otherwise , this was another fine " Peanuts " holiday special .
Chuck Versus the Marlin is a wonderfully amusing supposed season finale of " Chuck "	Chuck finds a bug hidden in one of the Buy More appliances . He gives it to Casey who shares the find with Sarah as they share the info to their superiors on the computer screen . Devon arrives at the store to ask Chuck for approval of his sister Ellie's hand and hands him the ring for safekeeping for a couple of days . The next day , the store is stripped clean as boss Big Mike discovers when his marlin is missing . Turns out the agencies ordered all items removed when more bugs were discovered which blows Chuck's cover for an enemy station whose mole is someone inside the store . . . Perhaps not as hilarious as the previous episode of " Chuck " that aired earlier last Thursday but very funny nonetheless with a very exciting girl-fight between Sarah and the female enemy agent . Also loved Chuck's awkward attempts in trying to use the gun to unlock the freezer that Sarah was stuck in . Chuck's Buy More co-workers , especially Morgan , were probably a little annoying again though not by much but I wondered , where's Anna ? Nice to see everything turn out well though Sarah's face at the end seems to tell me she now cares enough about Chuck that she hopes Chuck won't eventually have to relocated . Oh , and the show's promos with the cast being themselves , down to Yvonne Strahovsky's natural Australian accent , that aired throughout the night brought out their charms considerably . Hope that NBC's promise of " More Chuck . . . Coming Soon " is indeed fulfilled !
Chuck Versus the Crown Vic is another entertaining episode of " Chuck "	Okay , this is the last episode of " Chuck " before the Christmas break . Since there's still a writers ' strike , only two more new episodes have been filmed so it's hard to tell right now if we'll get an actual full season of this bright new action-comedy . In a nutshell : Chuck , Sarah , and Casey are trying to stop a shipping tycoon from bombing in certain places having found out about his counterfeiting scheme . This guy seems to be way ahead of the game since he makes fools of Sarah and Casey after Chuck ID's one of his boxes and they find nothing to incriminate him . Both of them are taken off the case as a result . After Morgan sends a picture of him and Anna on her parents ' ship , Chuck identifies something in the back and warns first Casey who passes , then Sarah who accepts Chuck's prognosis and rushes off to action . We find Casey in his beloved car waiting for them there as they rush to beat the bad guys and Chuck uses a scanning device to direct the flying bomb to Casey's car . Casey's not too happy about that though he seems to like Chuck now . So when his superior tells him on the phone that the new intel is close to being developed and Chuck may not be needed anymore , Casey declares he will do what he is ordered . Is this the end of Chuck ? Gusee we'll find out next month . . . Another entertaining episode of " Chuck " . Loved hearing an approximation ( to avoid copyright infringement ) of the " James Bond Theme " as we see Chuck enter a casino with Sarah and say his alias like James Bond would say his own name when introducing himself . Morgan himself was hilarious when trying to impress Anna's parents especially when he smokes a pipe and mentions Popeye as the person he idolized when he did that ! The Buy More Christmas . . . uh , Holiday party was also pretty funny with the dreidel gambling and Run-DMC's Christmas song playing in the background . Can't wait for the next episode to air . Until next time . . .
Chuck Versus the Imported Hard Salami is another exciting episode of " Chuck "	Chuck is now going out with Lou , the sandwich girl we met in the last episode . Morgan , hearing this , makes a play for Anna . Too sudden . Lester , on hearing of breakup of Chuck and Sarah , tries to make his moves on the Weinerlicious lady . Sarah comes on too strong for him so he leaves . When Chuck and Lou are kissing in her office , Chuck notices a poster and gets Intel in his brain from it . It has the name of Lou's ex-boyfriend who owns a dance club . He's also the son of an arms dealer . So Chuck is ordered by Sarah and Casey to wear a bug to tail this dealer . Unfortunately , this interferes with Chuck's date with Lou at the club . They make up the following day in her deli after a long wait with other customers but after seeing a photo provided by Sarah and Casey of Lou with one of the dealers , Chuck confronts Lou after seeing her with her old boyfriend . Turns out she was delivering meats . Nevertheless , after this , the ex puts Chuck and Sarah in the car trunk as Casey , having found the watch tail bug in the water glass , goes to Lou's place as an FDA agent and gets Lou to reveal her delivery number after revealing Chuck's true identity . After Casey manages to shoot the captors , Chuck and Sarah run toward a box that carries a bomb that has only seconds to explode . Sarah tells him to run but Chuck refuses . Thinking they'll die right away , Sarah kisses Chuck ! Bomb doesn't explode so Sarah now feels awkward while Chuck feels great . The next day , Lou and Chuck mutually agree not to see each other again . As Chuck leaves a message for Sarah to ask for a date , Sarah and Casey open the " bomb " and find a man inside . It's Bryce ! And he's alive ! . . . Another exciting episode of " Chuck " that is often funny and action packed ! Many wonderful scenes between Chuck and Sarah and Casey , not to mention Morgan and Anna and Lester . Not as funny and touching as the last episode especially with no Ellie and Awesome but entertaining enough that I can't wait for the next one . So until next time . . .
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button provided a unique performance from Brad Pitt	While my friend wanted to watch this movie because he's a big fan of Brad Pitt , I was simply more interested in the premise and the fact it was shot in my neighboring city of New Orleans whose scenery is breathtaking here ( the fact that present scenes are set during Hurricane Katrina was also a fine dramatic touch ) . Pitt is quite touching as a man aging backwards in time and I loved the romantic scenes with both Tilda Swinton as the middle-aged wife of a spy and Cate Blanchett as his childhood friend Daisy especially her dancing scenes . Those scenes on the tug boat with that tattoo captain were also good especially the wartime sequences . If there's one quibble , it's that I didn't see enough of Queenie's daughter to really discern how she got along with either her mother or her brother Ben . Otherwise , this was a fine piece of work from director David Fincher and screenwriter Eric Roth who mined similar adapted territory when he previously worked on Forest Gump .
Tasmanian Devil makes a hilarious debut in Devil May Hare	Robert McKimson's Devil May Hare marks the first appearance of the Tasmanian Devil , an ugly little monster who constantly spins around that will eat any animal especially rabbits . When he comes upon Bugs Bunny , however , he's in for a surprise ! First , he eats a pig that's actually an inflatable raft , then chicken made of bubble gum . Taz is on to Bugs , however , when the rabbit tries to pass a barrel with sticks as a deer even as Mr . Bunny tries to warn a real deer of the monster . He finally gets the Devil a bride as he hilariously marries them in their language ! Those grunts alone make this one of the funniest moments in a McKimson short . So once again , like I've done before commenting on cartoons included on The Looney Tunes Golden Collection DVD , Vol . 1 , I highly recommend Devil May Hare .
Hector's Hectic Life is a wonderfully funny holiday cartoon from Famous Studios	Last week , I reviewed Chips Off the Old Block which concerned a cat who found out about his offspring and kept them away from his female master because he was afraid of being thrown out . That's the same premise here except it's now a dog named Hector with his pups who all wave one of their ears just like dear old dad . Director Bill Tytla-a former Disney animator-provides just the right amount of sentiment with slapstick that makes this one of the more enjoyable one-shots from the Famous Studios factory . There's also Hector's angel and devil fighting it out for his soul after he initially throws his children out that I liked as well . If there's one quibble it's with the obvious stereotypical Swedish ( or is it Norwegian ) accent that is heard from the female head . It least she's only seen from the waist down like Tom and Jerry's Mammy Two-Shoes . Other than that , Hector's Hectic Life is a fine Christmas cartoon that should by seen by the whole family . P . S . I first saw this public domain short in the late ' 80s on a bargain basement VHS tape .
R . O . Blechman's The Soldier's Tale does Igor Stravinsky's music justice	Anyone who's read many of my comments here know what an animation buff I am . So it was as one that I decided to check out R . O . Blechman's The Soldier's Tale from my local library . Based on compositions by Igor Stravinsky and a popular Russian folktale , this concerns a soldier's post-war trials and tribulations after making a deal with the devil to trade his beloved violin for a book that guides him to his future . Various styles of animation come together to form a mostly cohesive whole with Fred Mogubgub , Bill Littlejohn , and Tissa David among the animators . Among the voices , Max von Sydow provides his charming self as Satan . Might be confusing at times but The Soldier's Tale never gets boring . Well worth seeing for animation fans .
Denzel Washington's The Great Debaters is an inspirational true-life based movie	On this , the day of the vice presidential debates that I recorded and will watch later , I decided to watch director Denzel Washington's The Great Debaters right after watching " Survivor " . Co-produced by Oprah Winfrey and inspired by actual events , The Great Debaters is a very compelling history lesson about a small black college called Wiley and that school's debate team that wins enough of them to be challenged by perhaps the biggest university of the country : Harvard . ( Okay , I get that the actual final debate was at USC . Still , Harvard made a more compelling institution here . ) Washington plays the teacher , Melvin B . Tolson , who also organizes a sharecroppers ' union at night that temporarily gets him in trouble with the law . The students who comprise of his team include Henry Lowe ( Nate Parker ) , Samantha Booke ( Jurnee Smollett ) , and James Farmer , Jr . ( Denzel Whitaker ) and yes , he was named after Washington ! Forest Whitaker plays James Farmer , Sr . and no , he and Denzel are not related . With that cast , there was , no doubt , some expectation of quality and that's what you get throughout the picture . All the conflict and some romance between Parker and Smollett are handled with great dramatic clarity and when Washington and Forest are not on screen Parker , Smollett , and the younger Whitaker have enough presence in filling in . All in all , The Great Dabaters is one of the most inspirational movies I've yet seen . P . S . As a Louisianian , I was pleasantly surprised to read that parts were shot in Shreveport and Mansfield and that there was a " Filmed in Louisiana " logo in the end credits .
Goldilocks and the Jivin ' Bears is one more " Censored 11 " cartoon I'd recommend	This is the last of the Warner Bros . " Censored 11 " cartoons I've seen on Thad's Animation Blog and what a cartoon to watch as the final entry since it has hot jazz music performed by the title character animals , the Big Bad Wolf from Red Riding Hood ( who's off riveting ) , Goldilocks wearing out the Wolf from jitterbugging with him , likewise with the returning Red Riding Hood and her Grandma ( with voice by Dorothy Dandridge's mom , Ruby ) . In fact , the story starts with the instruments that the bears are playing ( clarinet , piano , and bass ) all literally getting red hot from rehearsing too much ! So they all take a walk while both the Wolf and Goldilocks go inside . While nearly all of the characters have African-American features , only the piano-playing bear has the stereotyped face , voice , and characterization ( of the Stepin Fetchit kind ) . And with Friz Freling at the helm , you know you're in for an animated musical treat . In fact , Goldilocks and the Jivin ' Bears seems like one of the least offensive of the " Censored 11 " cartoons I've seen here . It's certainly way better than the worst one , Angel Puss . So on that note , I highly recommend this short for animation buffs and jazz music lovers .
Four Months Ago . . . was a compelling flashback for our " Heroes "	As Peter meets with Adam , who previously we saw as Takezo Kensei , we find out they have a history . Adam gives Peter something that makes him remember what he was doing four months ago : After brother Nathan flew Peter away from New York into the stars , Peter told his brother to let him go . Nathan obliges just as he's caught much of Peter's flames so Peter , after dousing his in the wind , catches Nathan again with his charred body and takes him to a hospital , only to disappear through walls before anybody can reach him . In the Dominican Republic , Maya witnesses his brother Alejandro getting married . She also witnesses his new wife getting it one with her ex-boyfriend soon after and after a few choice words , Maya kills them as blood spills from their eyes . Soon , the entire wedding party is dead except her brother who is puzzled . They escape . Back in Las Vegas , Niki , D . L . , and Micah are a happy family again . But Niki still worries about herself and starts taking pills provided by the Company . Then she stops . D . L . gets a job as a fireman and saves Molly on one of his assignments . He's now a hero on television that Micah sees again and again . On his 11th birthday , Nikki puts up a brave face but with the pills gone she gets a new personality : Gina . Gina runs to L . A . where D . L . finds her at a club as she snaps back to Niki . He then gets shot by Gina's partner as Niki looks on . Back in New York , Peter is with The Company with Bob and Elle keeping an eye on him . Elle develops more than a passing interest in him with the way she keeps electrifying him with her hands and her teasing how he'll like it along with those pills he keeps taking . In the adjoining cell is Adam who had been there for about 30 years . He convinces Peter to break out and stop taking the pills . Meanwhile , Nathan's mother convinces his wife Heidi that Nathan is suicidal like his late father . She tells her that he needs some space . Heidi agrees . Back in the Dominican , Alejandro finds Maya is a nun at church and proceeds to have her arrested but she kills the cops then stops as her brother holds her hands . At the funeral , Niki is holding his father's award plaque as the family from New Orleans console him and Niki . After the breakout , Peter and Adam find Nathan and Adam fills Nathan's vial with his blood which cures Nathan as his skin goes back to normal . Peter and Adam leave quickly as Elle and the Haitian find them . Elle causes Peter's shirt to go on fire but Peter takes it off before it could burn him . The Haitian stops him and uses his hands to wipe his mind and then puts him in a crate that ends up in Ireland . It's at this time that we return to where Peter starts remembering as Adam tells him it's time to save the world . . . Wow ! Great chronicles of what happened between the last season finale and the beginning of this season that included many of the main characters and some of the new ones . Too bad about D . L . Kristen Bell sure is creepy and sexy at the same time . So we now know why Heidi left Nathan . And what Elle's connection to Peter is . Can't wait to see the next episode so until next time . . .
Out of Time is a way excellent episode of " Heroes "	Before I start , let me make a correction : The woman that Peter has been hanging with is named Caitlin , not Kate . Okay , so while Noah was in Odessa , Ukraine , his wife has allowed West to come in the house to have breakfast which Claire just found out when she and West were text messaging each other . Her mom loves him . Still in 2008 New York which has been mostly abandoned because of a virus , Peter and Caitlin are separated-with Caitlin about to be deported back to Ireland-as Peter encounters a man who explains about the various dead bodies in a warehouse and then Mrs . Petrelli who tries to bring her son back some of his lost memories as well as mentions that his brother , Nathan , is dead . Still in the Ukraine , Noah calls Mohinder , who's having second thoughts about bringing The Company down , and tells him not to stray from the original plan . He also tells him about one of the paintings depicting Mohinder shooting a gun . Mohinder doesn't understand since he has no gun in his possession . Later , as he's talking to Bob , they're confronted by Nathan and Matt as they reveal the picture with marks on people indicating their deaths with Bob being the next victim . Seems Matt's dad is in the building to wreak havoc on everyone's minds with Niki confronting her late husband D . L . , and Matt confronting his dad in their old apartment with Molly-still in coma but recovering-also stuck there . Matt , using his newfound power of keeping people in their hellish nightmares for good , traps his dad in his prison just as in reality the father is lying comatose on the floor and Molly wakes up having heard Matt say , " I love you . " Nathan helps Niki by having her inject the anti-virus needle on herself . However , despite that , she may still die . It is around this time that Bob tells Nathan that his brother Peter is still alive . Back in 1671 Japan , Takezo Kensai had Hiro drugged and captured but Kensai's former girlfriend , who now loves Hiro knowing of his abilities and heroics , convinces him to teleport them to safety . Later that night , Hiro attempts to defeat the enemy troops by setting fire to their tent of weapons but Kensai tries to stop him there . After the fires spread , Hiro tries to save his idol but Kensai chooses to stay as Hiro teleports to safety . Next morning , he reluctantly says goodbye to his love as he quickly goes back to the present and an ecstatic Ando who then has to tell Hiro about the tragic fate of his father . In California , as Claire and West are kissing , Noah has arrived back . This scares West as he leaves abruptly just as Claire explains that the Horned Rimmed Glasses guy that abducted him was her dad . Noah now knows a little about Claire's boyfriend . Back in future New York , as Peter sees Caitlin about to be taken away , he suddenly finds himself back in the present in a strange place with a guy named Adam waiting for him . He looks just like Takezo Kensai . . . Better than usual episode for this season . My favorite scene is when Matt hugs the still comatose Molly and declares his affection for her which she later reciprocates . His father looks dead but I couldn't really tell for sure . Nice to see Leonard Roberts back as D . L . Should be interesting to see how he dies in next weeks flashback episode . Lots of things to ponder so until next time . . .
Fight or Flight is another excellent episode of " Heroes "	With Molly in a coma , Matt vows to find his father who made her that way . When he gets to the station , Nathan's still there confronting him about his mother . Matt promises no harm to his mother and tells him about his journey . Nathan wants to come along and won't take a " no " . When they arrive there , Matt is reluctant to knock so Nathan does . He also tells Matt to treat his father , who he hasn't seen in 25 years , as just another suspect . Matt does his duty and arrests him then , in trying to read his mind , finds out Dad has the same power . In fact , after he leads his son to a secret room , which Nathan later follows in , his powers are a little more advanced in that he can project Matt and Nathan's worst fears in their heads with Matt confronting his ex with a baby she says is theirs and Nathan confronting his bloody self climaxing in them fighting each other with Matt's dad long gone ! In New Orleans at work , after talking to the police and lying about not knowing the attacker's face , Monica goes home to find Micah playing the piano . Then , without knowing it , she suddenly copies his skills with a quicker pace ! This frightens her but Micah puts her at ease when he reveals his skills with the TV . So she tests her skills by doing the " Double-Dutch " jumping rope she couldn't do before . She succeeds . Ando goes to a scientist to help clear some characters on an ancient parchment left by Hiro from the 17th century Japan . Hiro had remained to help find Tekezo's girl's father . The last part is really difficult to read so now Ando wonders if Hiro is still alive . Feeling he has no other choice , Mohinder takes Molly to the Company's headquarters to have her taken care of there . As he talks to his superior , Niki as Jessica storms in and tries to kill the superior whose name is Bob . Mohinder tazers her and then later tries to get her to escape but Niki really wants to stay in order to get cured . Bob gives Mohinder an assignment which leads him to New Orleans where Monica answers the door . It's during all this time that Noah on the phone , who's with the Hatian in Odessa , Ukraine , ( not Texas like I thought last week ) warns Mohinder what the Company is capable of . In Cork , Ireland where Peter and Kate share some intimate time , Peter looks into his box and finds some plane tickets to Montreal . He then looks in Kate's canvas and paints a picture of two men at the doorway under some street signs there . Also , a mysterious woman named Elle ( Kristen Bell ) is looking for Peter . She's revealed to have powers of lightning coming out of her hands which Peter also had the last few episodes . When she confronts Kate's brother Ricky at the bar , Ricky claims he's never seen Peter but Elle had already talked to others ( including the one who tried to kill Rick the previous week ) who had seen him and locks the door before she does her deed . So when Kate finds out about it , she's in tears as Peter tries to console her and vows vengeance . . . Wow , another exciting episode of Heroes has come and gone ! Loved the editing of the Nathan / Matt fight in which Matt was supposedly fighting a guard from jail and Nathan was supposedly his bloody self . Also loved the Monica / Micah bonding . Looks like Peter is getting out of Ireland with maybe Kate in tow . How is Mohinder going to fare in New Orleans with Monica and Micah ? And just what is Noah and Hatian doing in the Ukraine ? Kristen Bell was okay in her " Heroes " debut . And was that really her " Daddy " she was talking on the phone ? Lots that and more to ponder so until next time . . .
Cautionary Tales was another great episode of " Heroes "	Because his family is in danger again , Noah tells his family they must leave but Claire refuses . She later writes " Sorry " with stones for West to see . When she tells West she's staying , West doesn't seem happy to hear it , in fact he's miffed she didn't tell about her father before . That's what the " Sorry " stones were for . Ando and Hiro attend Hiro's father , Kaito's , funeral . Hiro doesn't accept his father's death and goes back to one week before when Kaito was talking to Angela Petrelli . As Kaito greets his son , they go back to the mother's funeral where Hiro meets himself as a young boy . It's there that he accepts his father's words that " you can't play God . " Matt now has the power to change people's minds as he finds out with Molly and his partner . He then uses it on Angela who's fighting the best she can especially when he questions about a woman standing next to his father in the Company group photo . She tells Matt the way he's going , " You're not just like your father . You are him . " When Bob introduces Mohinder to his partner in getting Claire away from Noah to get Claire's blood , it's Elle who's revealed to Bob's daughter . As Noah gets confrontations about his methods from both Claire and his wife Sondra , he goes out and gets attacked by a flying West . Somehow , he convinces West he meant no harm to him . As Claire is at cheerleading practice , she is interrupted by the coach as she leads her to Bob , who's asking about Debbie's underage drinking and then mistakenly calls her " Ms . Bennett " . As Claire goes back home to warn her parents , Sondra recognizes Bob from her husband's former job at the Primatech Paper building . Noah manages to hold Elle's feet in water for a while as she temporarily gets electrocuted but Mohinder , in having to pick sides , puts Noah at gunpoint and has him lead him to Claire . Bob now has Claire tied up . Noah makes a deal to switch Elle for his daughter with West's help . All ends tragically as Noah threatens Mohinder at gunpoint , West flies Claire away as soon as possible just before her father gets shot in the eye , and Elle also gets shot . Bob manages to get Claire's blood in a vial before any of this happens . Back at the funeral , Hiro does a speech in which he says , " as long as my father word's and deeds live in me , he'll always be here " . Before this , Hiro was shocked to find , when he stopped time as his father fell to his death , that his killer was Takezo Kensei a . k . a . Adam Monroe . As the last words of the eulogy are being said , we find Noah lying with his eyes suddenly regenerating . He then gets up and says , " Holy - " as " To Be Continued " appears on screen . . . Wow ! What another great episode of " Heroes " . Lots of great stuff about fathers and their children . Nice to see George Takei one more time . Also great stuff from Jack Coleman as Noah Bennett . Hiro was the coolest especially with the eulogy . Only two more episodes before the strike happened so until next time . . .
Conquest of Micronesia is an inspirationally balanced Victory at Sea	In the Central Pacific , Americans are ready for the battle with the Japanese as both sides sustain multiple casualties with neither side wanting to surrender . Eventually , more deaths occur on Japan's front than the United States ' . . . This episode seems to live up to the series ' title , at least on the Americans ' side . Wonderful footage of a funeral at the end with appropriate reading of a prayer by narrator Leonard Graves as accompanied by the always stirring music of Richard Rodgers . Also nice footage of our country's military men relaxing in Hawaii , whether having their picture taken with a hula girl , seeing many of them dance , or simply going to the beach . The balance between resting and fighting is inspiring . Worth seeking for any World War II scholars out there .
Baton Bunny is another wonderful mix of classical music and animation	Like Mickey Mouse , Andy Panda , and Tom and Jerry before him , Bugs Bunny plays a symphony conductor in Baton Bunny . Even without his voice , Bugs is hilarious whether inadvertently putting his glasses upside down making the pages look that way , having cuff links move around him , or being annoyed by a fly while he's conducting . Oh , and watch him play lots of instruments ! Once again , Chuck Jones with Abe Levitow as co-director , mixed classical music with quality animated comedy in a heavenly inspiration of styles . Highly essential for fans of both genres I just mentioned . This is on disc 3 of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 .
D-Day details the most important battle in World War II history on Victory at Sea	The Allied invasion of the Normandy Beaches of France is detailed to very compelling effect courtesy of vintage footage taken there . Among the leaders there was General Eisenhower . One of the most important turning points for victory from the Allied side . . . Perhaps one of the most exciting episodes of the entire Victory at Sea series . Certainly well worth it to see all the U . S . soldiers and their allies get off their ships and planes as they ready themselves for the biggest confrontation of their enemies during this pivotal moment of World War II . As always , there was great narration from Leonard Graves and very stirring music from the legendary Richard Rodgers . Most recommended for any World War II scholars out there .
Design for Peace marks final U . S . triumph in Victory at Sea	This episode starts with footage of the atomic bomb that was tested in New Mexico before it goes on to the devastation that happened in Hiroshima and Nagasaki . With that Japan surrenders as that country's diplomat signs the official document prepared by the U . S . military before General MacArthur and fellow offerers also sign on . Before the war's end , however , President Franklin Delano Roosevelt dies during his fourth term in office . Millions attend his funeral to see his casket go by . As the day comes , the U . S . military comes to signs saying , " Welcome Home " before they are treated by mothers , wives , children's , and fellow neighbors . They also attend a parade in their honor as the series come to a close . . . Kudos as always for Leonard Graves ' narration and Richard Rodgers ' music . Also thanks to Henry Saloman and Richard Hanser for writing the whole thing , M . Clay Adams for the direction , Isaac Kleinerman for editing , and Saloman again for producing Victory at Sea . They all deserve a grand round of thanks for making perhaps the most important television documentary series ever made about World War II . Congrats all !
Design for War is great start for series Victory at Sea	In honor of Memorial Day , which this year is on May 28 , I started watching the first two episodes of the documentary series " Victory at Sea " . This one titled " Design for War " is the first . It chronicles the first two years of World War II in Europe before the United States ' full involvement . Germany succeeds in invading Poland and France but is held back by England thanks to Canada and much of the American naval forces . Very compelling use of actual footage is memorably accompanied by the resounding music score of the great Richard Rodgers . This is an excellent start to one of the most historically important documentaries on television . A must for any history buff .
Full Fathom Five is exciting tale of U . S . submarines aid in Japanese defeat on Victory at Sea	In this episode of Victory at Sea , we see how the U . S . submarines contributed to the Japan empire's downfall when they sunk thousands of their battleships . . . Nice footage of American sailors relaxing and having fun between drills before they are ordered into action . And what action there is as we see footage of ship upon ship from the House of the Rising Sun destroyed making Japan very weakened by the time it's all over . As always , stirring narration and music courtesy of , respectively , Leonard Graves and Richard Rodgers , contributes to the excitement of this segment of this classic World War II documentary series as well as perfectly chosen clips to illustrate just what went on . Another highly recommended episode for World War II history buffs out there .
Guadacanal depicts some of the bloodiest WWII battles on Victory at Sea	While also taking sights in Australia and New Zealand , the U . S . Marines suffer defeat after defeat at the hands of the Japanese at the base of Guadacanal . As the reduced crew retreats , however , a new one comes to take its place in a remarkable example of endurance . . . Interesting scenic shots of what the jungles of Guadacanal looked like during this time in history . Essential information is conveyed by the narrator about how some deaths are caused not just by battle but also by malaria that comes from the long stays in the Guadacanal rain forests . The number of people dying on both sides is especially emphasized here . Despite that , a can-do spirit ends another Victory at Sea episode as helped , as always , by the stirring music of Richard Rodgers . . .
Roman Renaissance is compelling account of Mussolini's decline in Victory at Sea	While Hitler's Germany continues to rise , Mussolini's Italy falls leading to a battle between the U . S . and Germany for the European country's soul . Eventually , as destruction upon destruction surrounds Naples , Italy accepts defeat and allows the U . S . to liberate their people as this episode ends with Rome celebrating freedom from tyranny with American flags and the Pope addressing the audience . . . Spectacular footage of air battles and explosions along with the ruins of many buildings and ships of Italy provide some of the most interesting results of the folly of Mussolini's regime . This episode also provides the beginning of the end of Hitler's as well . Compelling series made more so by Leonard Graves ' narration and Richard Rodgers ' music . Highly essential viewing for World War II history buffs .
Rings Around Rabaul is another excellent episode of Victory at Sea	The title of this Victory at Sea episode refers to the circle of ships the military of the U . S . , Australia , and New Zealand manage to surround around the Japanese base of Rabaul in the Solomon Islands . Many of these events happened in the fall of 1943 . . . Besides the stirring action accompanied by such likewise narration and Richard Rodgers ' music , there's some humor concerning the R & R of the military like the sign of Maude's Mansion Masseur : " Sorry , he's a he , not a she " as we see men get massaged by such a man . I also liked the one beer-drinking man seen here who has a shirt with " Vestal Virgin " printed on it . By the way , they're all drinking at a place called Duffy's Tavern which was supposedly named after a then-popular radio program . Another excellent segment of Victory at Sea that should please all World War II buffs !
Some U . S . victories abound in Midway Is East segment of Victory at Sea	After the Japanese successfully invade Singapore and the Philippines with the U . S . bases there , the Americans on another base in Midway manage to bomb many of Japan's ship carriers making the Asian country beat a hasty retreat and giving the U . S . some early victory in the second World War . . . Once again , stirring narration as well as such music from the great Richard Rodgers makes a most compelling episode in this , the fourth installment of the wonderful television documentary series Victory at Sea . For anyone very interested in a visual depiction of World War II as depicted in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans , Victory at Sea is as good a start as any .
Melanesian Nightmare is compellingly somber episode of Victory at Sea	In New Guinea , the Japanese fight a never-ending losing battle against the Allies of Australia and the United States as more and more casualties pile up while their homeland only hears news of victory being broadcast on radio . Eventually , the soldiers ' ashes arrive in white boxes to a mournful nation . . . While depicting several battles between Americans and their Asian enemies , we see just how Japan's people are suffering in defeat as especially shown in a scene of all their bodies laying in waste . Also , a very touching scene of the massive funeral of the Pacific country's men concludes this segment providing a balance of how universal grief truly is . Great narration from Leonard Graves and , as always , touching music from Richard Rodgers . This series is highly essential viewing for World War II scholars .
The Night of the Meek was an excellent Christmas episode of " The Twilight Zone "	This is my fifth consecutive comment on a Rod Serling-related project and my first this month of December on a Christmas-related one . Having never seen this particular episode when " The Twilight Zone " was airing on Superstation WGN-TV in Chicago on cable during the ' 80s , I was ecstatic when I found this on joust . com as linked by Google Video . One of six episodes shot on videotape , Art Carney is Henry Corwin , a drunkard who arrives late and inebriated at his job of a department store Santa . When one parent in particular complains , the manager ( John Fielder ) fires him on the spot but not until Henry expresses his wish to help less fortunate folks , as opposed to the arrogant and spoiled ones in the store , does he leave . Outside as he stumbles into his alley , a cat drops a big bag down in front of him . When he comes to the church of salvation , all the poor souls there miraculously get whatever presents they wanted from that bag ( one of those souls is played by Burt Mustin , who I remembered from a couple episodes of " All in the Family " ) . The organ playing woman there does not approve and gets a cop who takes him in . At the station , Henry's former manager tries to take back what he thinks are his store's stolen goods but sees nothing but tin cans and thinks the cop wasted his time bringing him there . But when Corwin reaches back in the bag , he presents his ex-boss with a bottle of a certain vintage wine that he wished for . I'll stop there and mention how wonderful to discover another great Art Carney performance after years of seeing him as Norton in " The Honeymooners " as well as his Oscar-winning turn in Harry and Tonto . He brings such belief and optimism to his role that when the whimsical turn of events come at the end , you can't help but be happy for him . Not a typical " Twilight Zone " episode , that's for sure , but one worth seeing for anyone who loves the Christmas spirit .
Mediterranean Mosiac is another compelling episode of Victory at Sea	British forces head on to Gibraltar and Malta to hold off the Italian Navy and the German Luftwaffe from invading there . While the English do get constantly bombarded at the Malta Islands , they remain steadfastly determined to keep charging especially after King George VI pays a visit there . . . The most interesting part of this episode is the amount of mealtimes the British sailors have in a day : 5 ( cocoa , breakfast , dinner , tea , and supper ) ! There's also scenes of relaxation on board ship before the , we later find out , 17 months of battle that occurs on the Malta shores . Once again , great narration and wonderfully stirring music as written by the legendary Richard Rodgers . Victory at Sea is essential viewing for the World War II scholar interested in seeing history come alive on television !
Mare Nostrum is compelling depiction of European fight in Victory at Sea	The British and the Greek military teams manage to defeat the Italians and later the Germans in the battle to take over the Mediterranean . At issue is who controls the Suez Canal in Egypt . . . One team of Europeans unite against another team in order to fight for what's right ! Another compelling episode of the great TV documentary series Victory at Sea with stirring narration and music by the legendary Richard Rodgers . History doesn't get better depicted on film than this ! How exciting to see such footage come to life almost as if we're living it now ! One of the most essential documentaries to come about the way World War II was fought and won for the democracy of the world . Can't wait for the next installment !
Killers and the Kill details German defeat in the Atlantic Ocean on Victory at Sea	As the Allies form bombing bases in lands bordering the Atlantic Ocean , the Germans try one more chance at conquering that area by sneaking a submarine from west of Europe . Unfortunately for them , they get caught and attacked from all angles . . . Perhaps the episode of Victory at Sea that most details the German defeat in the Atlantic Ocean at the Allies ' side . Exciting footage dominates the last several minutes with stirring narration from Leonard Graves and likewise music from Richard Rodgers contributing the appropriate mood throughout . A salute to all the men , living and dead , who helped make the world safe for democracy during these trying times indeed . As always , this and other episodes of Victory at Sea are most highly recommended .
Jammin ' the Blues is most innovative of its time	Jammin ' the Blues is an Oscar-nominated short from 1944 that is basically 10 minutes of improvisational jazz played in one long jam . Marie Bryant sings " The Sunny Side of the Street " at one point for the film's highlight then jitterbugs with Archie Savage to bring this most entertaining " jam session " to its exciting end . The director Gojn Mili was a photographer and that experience shows in some of the double exposure shots of some of the musicians that makes this one of the most innovative angles of the ' 40s . According to some notes I read one of the musicians was white and had to be filmed in silhouette in reflection of the social attitudes of the time . What a shame . Still , this most unusual film of the time is available on YouTube so if you love jazz , I suggest you seek it out there .
The Pacific Boils Over is great depiction of Pearl Harbor in Victory at Sea	In honor of Memorial Day , which this year is on May 28 , I started watching the first two episodes of the television documentary series " Victory at Sea " . This entry , " The Pacific Boils Over " is the second . Using Japanese footage , we see the planning , execution , and ultimately the celebration of the Asian country's attack on Pearl Harbor . There's also an explanation provided for the attack and some peaceful moments depicted among the U . S . sailors before the fateful events that use some of the most exciting film provided with the accompaniment of the stirring music score of Richard Rodgers to great effect . Essential viewing for anyone with interest in U . S . involvement in World War II , this one should make you sit up and take notice !
The Magnetic North is another compelling Victory at Sea episode	This episode of Victory at Sea explores the battles between the Americans and the Germans over the Arctic Circle concerning the Nazi-occupied Norwegians and other like-minded nations . After the Germans ' defeat , the Japanese take their turn resulting in another long , drawn out battle . . . A more somber segment in this classic World War II documentary series is once again given excellent treatment by the narration of Leonard Graves and the appropriate music of Richard Rodgers . Spectacular battle footage and the aftermath dominates to pay tribute to the fighting men who died in honor of their country . Well worth it to anyone interested in history as it was filmed for posterity .
The Fate of Europe is another compelling segment of Victory at Sea	The final defeat of Germany is chronicled here due to the Russians and now liberated France's determination to keep fighting . We also witness the meeting of Roosevelt , Churchill , and Stalin on final plans for Germany's surrender and the forming of the United Nations . At the end as Hitler's suicide is mentioned by the narrator , we see the Nazi flags get torn and German military uniforms and hats laying on the ground like discarded garbage . . . Compelling footage of Russians fighting , France celebrating their freedom , the world leaders conferring , and German cities in ruins make this one of the most triumphant as well as somewhat somber episodes of Victory at Sea due , as always , to the narration of Leonard Graves and music of Richard Rodgers . Kudos also for the well chosen clips . Another highly recommended episode for history buffs of World War II .
The Battle for Leyte Gulf is another exciting episode of Victory at Sea	Japan feels the agony of defeat more and more as the Americans attack them at every turn in the battle of Leyte Gulf in the Philippines . The empire of the Japanese is fast disappearing . . . The narration , music , and cuts of shot after shot of explosions dominate this episode in a bombastic show of the battleships of Pearl Harbor avenging their attack with gusto . If anyone wanted to know how different the Japanese of today were from how they were during World War II , watch this episode to witness how determined they were to die without surrendering . This Victory at Sea segment marked the counting of the number of days when the Asian country would accept utter defeat and fully surrender to America . As always , special thanks to narrator Leonard Graves and musician Richard Rodgers for their stirring contributions . Another highly recommended episode for any World War II history fans out there .
Target Suribachi is about the Marines triumph at Iwo Jima on Victory at Sea	The U . S . Marines fight a never-ending battle against the Japanese in their attempt to place their flag on Mount Suribachi at Iwo Jima during the now-legendary events depicted in this episode . . . As we reach the final throes of battle in the Pacific war against Japan , we are once again reminded of the price of lives lost that comes before true victory can be achieved . We also , however , are treated to how our men relax by playing sports and eating and dancing and having a good time just before they fulfill their duties . Kudos , as always , to Leonard Graves ' narration and Richard Rodgers ' music for stirring us to the climatic battles and flag-raising conclusion that made this documentary series the classic that it is . So , as always , this was another highly recommended episode of Victory at Sea .
Suicide for Glory depicts Japan's last attempt at conquest in Victory at Sea	In one last ditch effort at glory , having lost most of their best men in military uniform , Japan employs kamikaze pilots-men who willingly crash their planes on carriers in order to destroy the enemy-to crush the American spirit . But the U . S . Navy and Marines are ready for them with their battleship guns through night and day . On Okinawa , Americans fight one last battle with the House of the Rising Sun before an atomic bomb hastens Japan's surrender . . . Lots of battle footage of carrier guns shooting at Japanese planes dominate this episode with the night film clips of glow-in-the-dark bullets especially compelling to watch . Many casualties and victories are also recounted here aided , as usual , by stirring music and narration from , respectively , Richard Rodgers and Leonard Graves . Another highly recommended episode of Victory at Sea with one more to go !
Sealing the Breach is another compelling episode of Victory at Sea	With war now declared on the U . S . front , naval branches throughout the southeastern states have banded together to bring battleships and submarines with supplies across the Atlantic Ocean to our Allies in England . Among those branches are those in New Orleans which is a two-hour drive from my current hometown of Baton Rouge , La . and one in my former hometown of Jacksonville , Fla . German U-Boats come through and manage to bombard some of the sailors and airplane pilots along the way . Still , Americans are resilient . . . Another compelling episode of World War II history with , as always , stirring music from the great Richard Rodgers . Great narration matches that music to a T and keeps things in perspective . Well worth viewing for any U . S . history buffs there .
Sea and Sand is another compelling episode of Victory at Sea	In this one , the U . S . Army goes forward to defeat German General Rommel's military men in North Africa while the Allies also overtake many of the Mediterranean supply bases . We also see footage of Russians as they try to survive many invasion attempts and American President Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Churchill in conference as they plot the next move which for many soldiers of each country takes place somewhere in Casablanca . . . Exciting footage of lots of tank firings on land dominate another compelling documentary series entry of Victory at Sea aided most suitably by stirring narration and the symphonic music of the great Richard Rodgers . Another worthy entry of Victory at Sea for World War II buffs .
The Road to Mandalay describes Japan's conquest of Asia in Victory at Sea	This episode details Japan's invasion of China in 1936 and subsequent conquest of Burma after Pearl Harbor before China's liberation was aided by the Allies especially the British as they come back to the Mandalay crossing that helped make victory possible . . . Lots of info for a segment that dealt with how obsessed Japan was with conquering the world starting with its Asian neighbor , China . India is also mentioned as one of the Allies that received supplies in the fight against the House of the Rising Sun . As always , stirring narration and music by , respectively , Leonard Graves and Richard Rodgers help make this episode of Victory at Sea as exciting as it is . Most highly recommended for World War II history buffs and anyone interested in real-life drama presented on film .
Tintin and I is excellent documentary of Herge	Tintin and I recently aired as an episode of PBS's P . O . V . series . It's based on a taped interview of Georges Remi a . k . a . Herge , Tintin's creator , from 1971 in which in discusses his various experiences publishing his popular character , first in a Catholic newspaper , then in his own series of comic books . Awesome sweeping views of various comic pages and surreal images of Herge's dreams . I first encountered Tintin in the pages of Children's Digest at my local elementary school library reading The Secrets of the Unicorn . My mom later got a subscription to CD and I read the entire Red Rackham's Treasure every month in 1978 . I remember seeing some Tintin comic books in a local book store after that but for some reason I didn't get any probably because I was 12 and I thought I was outgrowing them . I do have Breaking Free , a book written and drawn by J . Daniels , published in 1989 , six years after Herge's death . Haven't read it yet . This film also covers the artist's personal life as when he left his first wife after his affair with a colorist in his employ ( whom he later married ) . Her name is Fanny and she is interviewed here . If you love Tintin and his creator , this film is definitely worth a look . Update : / 07-I've now read Breaking Free . Tintin and The Captain are the only regular characters that appear here and they are tailored to the anti-capitalist views of Mr . Daniels with Tintin portrayed as a rabble rouser with a chip on his shoulder who nevertheless cares for The Captain who he's staying with . The Captain here is just trying to make ends meet with a wife and daughter that he loves dearly . They and other construction workers vow to strike after a fellow employee dies from a faulty equipment accident . The whole thing takes place in England with working-class cockney accents intact . Not the kind of thing Herge would approve of but an interesting read nonetheless . Oh , yes , dog Snowy only appears in the top left corner of the cover ( which has Tintin running over the police ! ) and the dedication page .
The Turkey Shoot showcases Japan's invasion and eventual U . S . rescue of Guam in Victory at Sea	Guam , a U . S . territory , gets invaded by Japan a few days after Pearl Harbor and continues under the Asian country's occupation for two and a half years before the Americans take Guam back amid various Japanese casualties , either by suicide or self-defense . The Guam people are thankful as the episode ends on their smiling faces . . . A wonderful tribute to Guam and their resilience of survival from the Japanese invasion and eventual American rescue that makes this one of the most inspiring segments of Victory at Sea aided , as usual , by the stirring narration of Leonard Graves and music of Richard Rodgers . Another essential recommendation for any World War II historical fan out there .
Rabbit Fire is one of my favorites from the " Hunting Trilogy " series	Of the three shorts directed by Chuck Jones and written by Michael Maltese that starred Bugs Bunny , Daffy Duck , and Elmer Fudd in the " Hunting Trilogy " series , this , Rabbit Fire was the first . When I originally saw this as a nearly 10-year-old kid in the late ' 70s , I laughed out loud at the way Bugs kept tricking Daffy into saying , " Duck season , fire ! " with the result of Elmer shooting the duck's face and Daffy's beak either falling off , or spinning , or his head hanging upside down . Other funny stuff involves the wabbit and duck impersonating each other in costume , their reading recipes of what each other would taste like followed by " mmmm-mmm " sounds , Bugs fooling Elmer with his female disguise ( again ! ) , an " elephant gun " gag , and the final twist that I won't reveal here . After all these years , this is one of my favorites among many classic Warner Bros . cartoons .
Bully for Bugs is another classic Chuck Jones Bugs Bunny cartoon	This is another cartoon in which Bugs should have taken a " left turn at Albuquerque " and ends up at a place not of his choosing , in this case a bullfighting ring . After Bugs insults the bull , the bull butts the rabbit sky high as Bugs declares , " Of course you realize , this means war ! " Boy , does it ever ! Watch Bugs one-up the stubborn animal at every turn . Love the slaps the rabbit gives him to the beats of some Mexican music . Like Elmer Fudd and Yosemite Sam , this animal will not give up no matter how much Bugs manages to defeat him at every turn . Once again , kudos to Chuck Jones and Micheal Maltese for making another hilarious classic cartoon . And special thanks to their boss Eddie Selzer for telling them " bullfights aren't funny " !
Million Dollar Baby was certainly one of the best pictures of 2004	I've now seen this movie twice . The first time was in the theatre after it won the Oscars for Best Picture , Best Director ( Clint Eastwood ) , Best Actress ( Hilary Swank ) , and Best Supporting Actor ( Morgan Freeman ) . The last was hours ago on HD DVD with my parents . My dad thought it dragged a little while my mom thought it was about more than boxing and liked the slow passages . In between the drama with the three stars , there's some humor involving Clint and Morgan as well as with Morgan and some of the other boxing hopefuls including a really enthusiastic kid who initially calls Freeman the " N " word but says he doesn't really mean it . Morgan's character also narrates the story in what is revealed to be a letter to Eastwood's long-estranged daughter who we never see . The movie does take its own sweet time and makes Paul Haggis ' dialogue shine throughout . Since I've only seen one of the other Best Picture Oscar nominees of 2004 ( The Aviator ) , I can't judge if this was indeed the finest of that year . However , Million Dollar Baby was certainly one of the most compelling .
Christopher Crumpet is wonderfully animated UPA short	Just saw this classic UPA short on YouTube . It concerns a little boy who turns into a chicken when he doesn't get what he wants from his parents . In this one , he wants a rocket ship . His father gets a toy one . " I want a REAL one ! " , Christopher exclaims . The father sees an ad for a real one in the paper . He gets it but it turns out ( as evident when the boy comes outside and sees it fall apart ) to be used . " I wand a NEW one ! " , comes the reply . Christopher keeps turning into a chicken every time he gets disappointed . During all this , the dad's officemate tries to win a bet with his boss about this unbelievable event . While the boss does see the boy and the chicken , he never sees the transformation so the officemate loses his pay for a year . All this is narrated by an illustrator to a dog that results in a surprise ending that I won't ruin here . Well worth seeing cartoon directed by Robert Cannon with Bill Melendez as one of the animators . Many other UPA classics like Gerald McBoing Boing and The Tell Tale Heart are also available for viewing on YouTube so to anyone with a love of all things animated , I highly recommend you seek them out there .
Elvis : From the Waist up showcases great Presley performances in his first year on national television	Elvis : From the Waist Up was a VH1 special I taped about 10 years ago that I'm just now seeing since a few days from now , it will be 30 years since Elvis " left the building " . This special , narrated by Bono of U2 , chronicles Elvis ' national television appearances in his first year from his debut on the Dorsey Brothers ' " Stage Show " to singing to an actual hound dog on " The Steve Allen Show " to his first " Ed Sullivan Show " appearance when he was introduced by guest host Charles Laughton to his third and last one in which Ed called Presley and his backup singers , The Jordanaires , " fine young boys " . All those performances are shown completely intact and with such clear picture considering they're all kinescopes from 50 years ago . Oh , and there's an appearance on " The Milton Berle Show " that ends with Berle himself trying to impersonate Elvis ' moves to hilarious effect in front of the King himself ! If you find this on VHS or DVD , I strongly suggest you check it out !
Abou Ben Boogie is a wonderfully sexy Walter Lantz ' 40s cartoon	Abou Ben Boogie is one of Walter Lantz ' Swing Symphony cartoons that relied heavily on the swing-jazz music that was so popular during the ' 40s era this short was made in . It takes place in some Arabian country at a restaurant where all the men go ga-ga over a dancing harem girl with bare midriff who sings the title song . Many gags abound around the men , that girl , and a camel who also dances . Lots of Tex Avery-inspired scenes like the enormously widening eyes and other funny reactions to the sexy dancing of the girl provide most of the short's humor as hilariously directed by Jimmy " Shamus " Culhane . Well worth seeing for any ' 40s animation buff .
Swinging the Lambeth Walk is another unusual Len Lye animation short	Another Len Lye animated short which has paint abstracted directly on film . The music is , as usual , an excellent score for its period . It begins and ends with a silhouette of a hand with its thumb pointed up . I guess all I can say after having seen so many of these Len Lye shorts on YouTube is if you've got a taste for the unusual , or the possibly bizarre , or a collage of colors , white lines , and shadows , if you don't mind seeing something that makes you think you're in some kind of mind trip , then anything by Len Lye should be what you're looking for . Swinging the Lambeth Walk can be one of the most trippiest experiences you've ever have without taking any controlled substances . So by all means , seek this one out !
This French animated short highly deserved its Oscar nomination from yesterday	Meme les pigeons vont au paradis is one of five Oscar-nominated films in the Best Animated Short category . In this entry from France , an old man with a red bag of lots of gold coins is visited by a priest who tells him to sign something in order to insure his entry into heaven . He also brings a machine that gives the old man a " preview " of what the afterlife will look like . I'll stop there and mention that there are many amusing characteristics in the short's brief running time that abounds in the dialogue exchange between the two characters . And the way the whole thing ends is a hilarious shocking surprise ! This was an excellent short that highly deserves it's important nomination that was announced yesterday . If if wins , I'd be very glad indeed !
Fantastic Planet is very innovative French-Czech animated feature	I just discovered on YouTube this English-language version of Fantastic Planet , which was distributed in the U . S . by Roger Corman's New World Pictures . A kid Traag adopts a human-like little Om after the mother dies . This Traag learns lessons from a multiple-headphone-like device . As the Om grows , he absorbs all the Traag knowledge and eventually escapes to his homeland when he steals the Traag learning device . From there comes the climactic battle that leads to the pacifist denouement . Wonderful animation throughout with weird touches provided in this French-Czech production . Among the voices : Barry Bostwick ( Rocky Horror Picture Show ) , Janet Waldo ( Judy on The Jetsons ) , and Hal Smith ( Otis on The Andy Griffith Show ) . By all means seek this rare gem out !
Big Business is the best Laurel and Hardy holiday comedy I've seen	Hours after I rewatched The Fixer Uppers , I remembered another Laurel and Hardy short that had something to do with Christmas : This one called Big Business ( also the title of a feature starring Lily Tomlin and Bette Midler from 1988 ) . The boys sell Christmas trees in this one and are not very successful at it ( maybe because it's sunny in this short's setting ) . One customer who's particularly annoyed is played by usual nemesis James Finlayson . The gradual destruction caused by these three as well as their reactions to each indignity make this one of the funniest of the L & H silents . There's also notable bit players like Charlie Hall , Lyle Tayo , and as a cop watching all the shenanigans , Tiny Sandford who's also good in his role . So on that note , this is my favorite of the Laurel and Hardy holiday comedies . P . S . If you can read lips , you've probably noticed Stan addressing Ollie by his nickname , Babe , which he was called when he first worked in the film industry when it was briefly based in Jacksonville , Florida , which is where I once lived during the late ' 80s-early 2003 .
Bridge to Terabithia is a wonderfully essential family film	Based on the Newberry Award-winning book , Bridge to Terabithia is the story of two tween outcasts , Jesse and Leslie , who bond over their creative endeavors , drawing and writing , respectively . After school , they swing a rope across the brook and go to their tree clubhouse where they imagine being in the land of Terabithia , fighting various creatures and racing each other . Josh Hutcherson and AnnaSophia Robb are wonderful as the lead characters . Among the adults , I especially liked Zooey Deschanel as the music teacher and Robert Patrick as Jesse's dad . Despite some sadness along the way , this is essential viewing for the whole family . Kudos to Gabor Csupo and the Disney Company for making it .
Chuck Jones ' Duck Amuck is his most abstract and funniest cartoon short	Duck Amuck is Daffy's frustrations of being trapped in an animated short that keeps changing scenery , has him playing a guitar with shooting sounds , fighting with himself in another frame , gets drawn in different sizes and colors , and basically is at the mercy of an unseen animator . This is Chuck Jones ' and Michael Maltese's masterpiece of abstract animation . One of my favorite parts was at the changing scenery sequence when , after Daffy changes into a farmer outfit singing " Old McDonald Had a Farm " in front of a barn background , it changes into a winter scene with a snow-house as the duck then sings , " And on this farm he had an igloo . . . " LOL ! At the end , the duck demands to know who is behind the whole thing . All I'll say is that person says , " Ain't I a stinker ? " Duck Amuck is definitely worth seeing again and again .
Toby Tortoise Returns is a very hilarious sequel to The Tortoise and the Hare	After watching The Tortoise and the Hare on YouTube , I quickly watched the sequel right after on there and I found this one more hilarious than the predecessor . Actually , I thought Toby Tortoise Returns was very funny while TTATH was only amusing . Especially since the competition is now in the boxing ring and there are cameos from other stars of other Walt Disney Silly Symphonies cartoons . I was especially very amused by the Mae West bird caricature Jenny Wren and the Harpo Marx rooster ( whose hair is red as opposed to the more familiar blonde ) from Who Killed Cock Robin ? ( whose scenes I'm familiar with from seeing them in Alfred Hitchcock's Sabotage ) There's dynamite , Mexican music , a couple of hospital orderlies , and plenty other hilarious stuff that I don't want to spoil for you . Needless to say , I very much recommend Toby Tortoise Returns .
A Simple Plan is a great suspense film from Sam Raimi	The leading performances of Bill Paxton , Billy Bob Thornton , and Bridget Fonda are excellent as is that of Gary Cole in a role that shouldn't be a surprise to anyone who knows his work . Two supporting players that really impressed me , however , were those of Brent Briscoe and Becky Ann Baker ( who I recognized from " Freaks and Geeks " ) as Lou and Nancy Chambers . Brisco brings a slightly obnoxious but somewhat lovable vibe as the co-conspirator in the money laundering scheme that when his fate happens , you feel a little sorry for him . Ditto Nancy as she cries when she sees what happens to her husband and her eventual fate as well . Great atmospheric direction from Sam Raimi accompanied by a very suitable score by Danny Elfman . And the constant scenes of snow and the animals that inhabit them are so beautiful despite the mostly suspenseful tone throughout . So having said all that , I highly recommend A Simple Plan .
A Colour Box is highly worthy experimental animation short	Just saw this on YouTube and was blown away by the various paints of colors directly on film and the post office prints at the very end . Reminded me a lot of Chuck Jones ' The Dot and the Line where we see lots of shapes and sizes of various colors of lines , circles , and what have you . Great period music to set the mood to whatever abstraction is matched for the rhythm of the picture . This , The Peanut Vendor , and Free Radicals are the first time I've seen anything by Len Lye . Great experimental work from such an independent artist . Makes me wish I can find a DVD or VHS that might possibly have some of his works preserved . I guess I'll keep on searching YouTube . . .
Wild Wife is a great Robert McKimson cartoon	Just watched this Warner Bros . cartoon on YouTube . In it , husband John ( Mel Blanc , of course ) asks his wife Marsha ( Bea Benaderet ) if she's done various chores . When she replies " no " on the lawnmower question , he tells her she doesn't do enough work during her free time . Marsha rebuts with a tale of what her work day entailed . . . Director Robert McKimson fills this day - in - the - life - of - a - housewife premise with lots of hilarious verbal and visual gags that keeps building until the much deserved finale . And the stylized ' 50s design that was probably UPA-inspired is perfect here . And music director Carl Stalling , as always , provides many familiar music cues-like the " Powerhouse " score by Raymond Scott which is my favorite-their suitable moments in the short . So for all that , I'm highly recommending Wild Wife .
Watch The Tantalizing Fly for one of the earliest appearances of Koko the Clown	The Tantalizing Fly is one of the earliest appearances of Koko the Clown in Max Fleischer's Out of the Inkwell series . In this one , a fly is bothering Max at the drawing board and Koko on it . In fact , Koko follows the fly as the clown twists and turns every which way on his body ! The fly also goes around his face , and near his nose bothering Koko so much that he gets an ink spray that also sprays Max's face ! Max eventually gets a fly swatter that ends knocking Koko out after which Koko draws a man in a chair , hits him on head when fly goes near it , chair man gets mad , Koko uses pen to siphon man back and Max then takes sheet Koko is drawn on to siphon the clown back in inkwell . When fly also enters inkwell , Max covers it with hand . The end . Very amusing early entry in Max Fleischer's Out of the Inkwell series . Seek this one out if you're a die-hard animation buff .
Pie-lette marks a great start for unique series " Pushing Daises "	" Pushing Daises " is the most critically acclaimed new show of the season and I can't help but agree how great the pilot or " Pie-lette " is ! Lee Pace is charming in a role that requires him to not show too much personality as Ned . Chi McBride shows a flair for comedy as Detective Emerson Cod , Ned's partner on cases and his pie restaurant . Kristen Chenoweth as Olive Snook , Ned's waitress , brings her pixie spriteness to the table , and Anna Friel brings a spunky optimism to her role as Charlotte " Chuck " Charles , a childhood crush Ned brings back to life he dares not touch again if he wants her to keep living . Also want to mention Swoosie Kurtz and Ellen Greene as Chuck's aunts that she lived with after Ned , when they were young children , inadvertently killed her father ( which she doesn't know about ) . What wonderful veterans they are ! This show is worthy of all the acclaim it got and the ratings it got means that a lot of people were willing to try this one out . Can't wait to see what the rest of the season brings !
This parody of Romeo and Juliet is Felix at most creative	Felix the Cat as Romeow is funny from beginning to end ! The best one I've seen so far . It begins as Felix is riding his bike to a fair maiden's castle . When he arrives , the smoke from his bike carries him to the fair maiden's balcony . While Felix woos with his banjo , his rival is on his way on his horse . As he arrives , he challenges Felix to a duel but not before he squeezes his horse like an accordion ! They use swords . Felix manages to cast his rival's sword out so the rival uses an ostrich's beak instead ! After that ends , Felix wanders out and comes to a flower , blows its petals out and turns it into a microphone ! He sings to it which comes out of the fair maiden's phonograph . A duck comes behind Felix and quacks into the mic causing the fair maiden to use some kind of medicine to feed her speaker and Felix to tie the duck's beak with a handkerchief ! The duck goes to his father who unties the handkerchief which then becomes a rabbit that hops away ! The duck's father than tries to confront Felix who keeps kicking him away . The father duck then uses the mic to preen as if looking in a mirror ! Then a donkey comes and licks the mic before dropping it . Then a mouse comes and turns the mic into a unicycle ! Felix then goes back to the castle and uses the tire from his bike as some kind of viewfinder to eye his maiden . He climbs back up to find the maiden and his rival in embrace . He then finds two megaphone shaped things and uses one of them to shrink his rival to mouse size ! Felix then embraces the maiden as we iris out . I'm sure there are some gags I've neglected to mention but trust me : This short is quite hilarious ! It's also nearly perfectly synchronized with sound effects and music which I'm thinking came from a reissue since it came from a year that The Jazz Singer was just premiering . By all means , seek this one out !
Buffy the Vampire Slayer : The Harvest is excellent conclusion to series pilot	This is the second part of the pilot episode that aired on the WB's last broadcast of September 17 , 2006 . In this one , The Master and his minions are trying to " harvest " lives in order to free The Master from the underground Hellmouth . We find out Jesse is now a vampire , Willow is good with computers , Cordelia's not ( I love Willow's " Push the deliver key " line to her ) , Harmony ( Mercedes McNab ) is Cordelia's friend here , and minion Luke ( Brian Thompson ) is not too bright ( another favorite line , " It's about nine hours , moron " from Buffy after tricking Luke to look through a broken glass window with the sun shining ) . The final line from Giles , " The earth is doomed " after Willow , Xander , and Buffy joke about possible ways Buffy could get kicked out of school makes this the perfect beginning of this wonderful comedy-horror hybrid for the next seven years . . .
Little Rural Riding Hood is another hilarious Tex Avery cartoon from MGM	I first saw this one as a ' 70s kid watching The Tom and Jerry Show on weekday afternoons . That show had lots of outrageous cartoons that are so funny you can't help yourself . This one is more outrageous than usual since it parodies two well known stories : The Little Red Riding Hood and Country Mouse / City Mouse . Here , the title character is a hillbilly girl who speaks in a southern drawl who's bringing some jug of moonshine for her granny . Granny here is , of course , a wolf but he speaks in Goofy's voice ( Pinto Colvig ) who , instead of wanting to eat her wants " kiss her and chase her " acting all country bumpkin crazy . So the chase ensues when Red arrives but stops short of the wolf kissing her when a telegram arrives from his city cousin to come to his house where he'll promise a " real red riding hood " . I'll stop here and mention that when we see her , it's reused footage from Swing Shift Cinderella as animated by Preston Blair . During this sequence , Colvig's wolf is so out of control , it's hilarious . And the city wolf's voice is none other than Daws Butler , best known for the southern drawled Huckleberry Hound . Tex Avery has done it again with this entry in the Red Hot Riding Hood series he made for MGM in the ' 40s with the typical wackiness and sexiness one never gets tired of seeing from this man . Most highly recommended for animation buffs especially of the Avery kind .
Martin Scorsese's Bob Dylan documentary is excellent	I watched Martin Scorsese's No Direction Home having only known Bob Dylan mainly from hearing " Like a Rolling Stone " and " Everybody Must Get Stoned " on the radio or seeing recent live TV performances in which his voice usually sounded garbled , so this was truly a revelation of how much of an impact Dylan made in American music as well as who in turn impacted him ( His encounters with Woody Guthrie were especially interesting ) . It's great to see vintage performances and interviews of Pete Seeger , Joan Baez , and Mavis Staples as well as some of Dylan's fellow musicians and poets from Greenwich Village . We also get small wraparounds in Part 1 of his 1966 concert in which he gets booed for his first electric set that shows how fans can turn on you when you try something different . As soon as I see Part 2 , I'll post an update . I've now seen Part 2 and , boy , what a journey as we see Dylan perform for Martin Luther King's March in Washington , in the Newport festival , doing press conferences in which he says he's a song-and-dance man instead of a " protest singer " , and then his first electric concert in which Pete Seeger threatens to cut the wires ! During the second half , you hear footage of " boos " and " traiter " being yelled in England and America although they lessen when you hear Dylan's biggest hit , " Like a Rolling Stone " . In the beginning of this second part , Dylan keeps his sense of humor as when he mangles interpreting a road sign for his own pleasure but becomes a bit surly when a couple asks for an autograph later on . No Direction Home ends right before Dylan's motorcycle accident in 1966 so most of his great stuff is covered here . Afterwards , Charlie Rose interviewed director Martin Scorsese who explained the meaning of the title , " When you die , you're home . " No better words have been spoken !
Long-Haired Hare is another hilarious Bugs Bunny cartoon by Chuck Jones	Another classic Bugs Bunny cartoon directed by Chuck Jones . In Long-Haired Hare , our rabbit likes to sing and play the banjo , harp , and tuba . But Giovanni Jones , an opera singer who lives nearby , is constantly distracted to the point of joining along . So he hits Bugs with those instruments . After getting his ears tied to a tree branch causing his head to go up and down , Bugs declares , " Of course you know , this means war ! " Attaboy , Bugs ! If you haven't seen this yet , I won't spoil the rest for you . Instead , I'll just say this : When Bugs gets even , he GETS even ! As always , Michael Maltese deserves credit for thinking up some of the funniest cartoons of all time .
The Children's Hour has subject matter relevant even today	In this time weeks after California became the second state to recognize gay and lesbian marriages , I thought I'd finally get a look at a time when anyone even accused of loving someone of the same gender got him / her ostracized by watching The Children's Hour , a movie made in 1961 based on a play written by native New Orleanean Lilian Hellman in the 1930s . In this one , bratty girl Mary ( Karen Balkin ) lies to her grandmother ( Fay Bainter ) about a relationship between her teachers Karen Wright ( Audrey Hepburn ) and Martha Dobie ( Shirley MacLaine ) . Another girl , Rosalie ( Veronica Cartwright ) gets roped to play along because she " borrows " some jewelry and doesn't want to get ratted out . A Dr . Joe Cardin ( James Garner ) defends fiancée Karen and Martha's honor in front of the rich grandmother but is unable to stop all the girl students from being sent elsewhere . And it doesn't help when Martha's actress aunt Lily ( Miriam Hopkins ) is conveniently away during most of the trial that results from a suit against the grandmother that she wins . This was a well done movie about how some lies can snowball to tragic consequences and how some truths can be found in those lies . Director William Wyler , who had previously filmed this as These Three but had to change some of the material to suit the Production Code of the time , brings his usual classy treatment to such sensitive material . Leads Hepburn and MacLaine , especially MacLaine , bring emotional power in their roles that challenge them to the fullest . Mr . Garner acquits himself nicely in his scenes with them . Hopkins and Bainter-with Ms . Hopkins a veteran of These Three-also provide fine support . As for the children , while Ms . Balkin does indeed seem too annoying as Mary to be convincingly charming even to her grandma , Ms . Cartwright is just the right side of frightful in her reluctance as Rosalie to cross Mary to her face . Of course , I think Grandma is so prejudiced that thinking what her granddaughter whispered was out-and-out lies was the last thing on her mind . And the difference between attitudes then and now is heartbreakingly brought out at the end when Martha reveals her true feelings to Karen before Karen takes a walk and then the aftermath when she runs back in . . . While homosexuality may be more open and accepted today , there's still some backlash that makes this movie even more relevant now . And seeing Garner back-to-back in this and Sayonara just now makes me appreciate how brave he was in appearing in these then-provocative films . So on that note , I highly recommend The Children's Hour . P . S . My condolences to Hepburn's and Mel Ferrer's son Sean on the recent death of his father at the age of 90 .
Santa Claus Is Comin ' to Town is perfect Rankin / Bass Christmas special	I've just seen Santa Claus Is Comin ' to Town for the first time since I was an under-12 kid in the late ' 70s . It brought back such memories of seeing the origin of the big red-suited man when it used to show on the Sunday at 6 central time period on ABC opposite NBC's The Wonderful World of Disney . Fred Astaire is perfect as the Special Delivery Mailman guiding us through the story . Mickey Rooney is fine as the orphan baby originally named Kris Kringle by a family of elves with that surname . Keenan Wynn is touching as the Winter Warlock who convincingly turns from mean to nice after Kringle gives him a toy . Paul Frees is appropriately mean as Burgermeister Meisterburger who bans toys in Sombertown ( When I was a kid , his burning all the toys in front of the children was particularly sad to me ) . And Robie Lester as Jessica who eventually becomes Mrs . Claus is very sweet in her transformation from frosty to warm when Kris gives her a doll . Rankin / Bass was the name you trusted to give you a perfectly doll-animated Christmas special . ( Two more that come to mind are Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer and The Year Without a Santa Claus ) So , to quote Nat King Cole , " to kids from 1 to 92 " , I highly recommend Santa ' Claus Is Comin ' to Town !
Smell of Success is another hilarious episode of " Pushing Daises "	This is the funniest episode of " Pushing Daises " yet ! I'll just mention what this show has : murder by scratch-n-sniff , rival authors , rival colleagues , Paul Reubens , " Follow the yellow hose " , Olive in a mermaid outfit , Olive's cleavage , and Chuck's aunt Vivian singing , " Morning Has Broken " . There's plenty more I haven't mentioned but one more thing I have to say is : Thanks , ABC , for giving this whimsically funny series a full-season pickup ! Also glad to know the ratings have gone up . Every week this show just keeps getting better . Now if only the writers ' strike ends soon ( with the writers getting what they want ) so we can get that full season in bloom ASAP !
A Charlie Brown Christmas is one of the best holiday specials ever !	On December 9 , 1965 , the first broadcast of what would become a holiday classic would debut : A Charlie Brown Christmas . From the beginning song , " Christmastime is Here " , we hear Charlie Brown talking about always getting depressed during the holidays with friend Linus who responds , " Lucy's right , of all the Charlie Browns in the world , you're the Charlie Brownest . " Somehow , this leads to Charlie directing a Christmas play but no one's paying attention . ( It's here that the unofficial Peanuts theme , " Linus and Lucy " is introduced ) He and Linus then decide to get a Christmas tree with Brown getting the smallest , weakest-looking one . After everyone laughs , C . B . , feeling defeated , asks , " Is there anyone who knows what Christmas is all about ? " Linus then goes on stage , asks for spotlight , and tells of the birth of Jesus . After he finishes he says , " That's what Christmas is all about , Charlie Brown . " ( I've always wondered how someone who knows about Christmas ended up believing in the Great Pumpkin ) Chuck then takes the tree to his dog Snoopy's home , gets depressed when the light from his dog's decoration basically kills the tree , and leaves . The rest of the gang then comes to put the rest of the lights on the now beautiful Christmas tree as Charlie comes back , looks at what his friends have done , and gets greeted with , " Merry Christmas , Charlie Brown ! " as they all sing , " Hark the Herald Angel Sing " . . . Charles Schulz , Bill Melendez , and Lee Mendelson should be commended for making such a meaningful and poignant Christmas special that addresses both the commercial and religious aspects of the holiday with a little bit of sophisticated humor . And Vince Guaraldi's jazz score is some of the coolest I've heard in an animated cartoon . Most of all , at a time when adult actors were still doing children's voices , the producers insisted on using real kids approximately ages 7-10 to voice the Peanuts gang bringing a down-to-earth quality to the Charlie Brown specials over the years . So here's to over 40 years of one of the most popular holiday specials ever . Merry Christmas , Charlie Brown indeed !
Get Out and Get Under is an excellent Harold Lloyd short from Hal Roach	Get Out and Get Under is Harold Lloyd's first film after an exploding accident that caused him to lose a two fingers and a thumb in one of his hands requiring him to wear a prosthetic glove in movies for the rest of his career . This is a very funny short in which Harold is hurrying to get to the theatre for his performance . Lots of hilarious scenes concerning ways to fix his car , his dealings with a kid ( Ernie " Sunshine Sammy " Morrison of the original Our Gang ) who keeps hanging around while he's working , a dog , some engineers of a train ferry the car accidentally goes on , a parade , a banana peel ( no surprise there ) , a steep hill , a water tower , a fire hydrant , a " road closed " sign , and some motorcycle cops . His leading lady is played by his eventual wife , Mildred Davis . Produced and directed by comedy mastermind Hal Roach . The music I heard in this version was provided by Vince Giordano and his Nighthawks Orchestra . Highly essential viewing for silent movie comedy fans especially those of Harold Lloyd .
The Babysitter is one hilarious adult themed short !	Just watched this on Atomfilms . com . This was a pretty hilarious comedy short about an-18-year-old blond babysitter reluctantly being left in charge of a much older-than-her offspring whose girlfriend just left him . To entice her to stay the guardians ( one of whom I recognized as Molly Hagan from " Herman's Head " ) offer her $100 . Things are strained until this " offspring " offers some beer . . . Directed by one David H . Steinberg ( is he related to the comedian with the similar name ? I gotta check him out ) , things start slow until the events after the beer . And wait till you see the surprise ending ! Like I said , it's on Atomfilms . com . I highly recommend this one !
Der Schneemann is a wonderful vintage animated short from Germany	Just watched on YouTube as linked from Saturday Morning Blog this German cartoon known in the U . S . as The Snowman or Snowman in July . Whitey Snowman comes to life one winter day and enjoys running in the snow and ice skating . When he falls in the ice river , he comes back much thinner but gains all his weight by rolling in the snow . He also loses his head at one point but gets it back quickly . Then at home , he looks at a calendar and wishes it was July . So he hibernates in a fridge ( guess the idea of suffocating in there doesn't pertain to snowmen ) and waits for the coming spring . . . This was a very touching and amusing cartoon that I had read about but didn't get to see until now . I liked seeing that dog snatch Whitey's butt in the beginning before he threw back a snow that reattached said butt and when that bug in the spring segment skied on the snowman . The version I saw had an English-speaking narrator that made the short quite entertaining from beginning to end . So on that note , I highly recommend Der Schneemann which was directed by one Hans Fischerkoesen . P . S . There seemed to be some of that 3-D like tabletop background one usually associates with Max Fleischer . Additional P . S . - I just watched the original German version that had different music and had the snowman singing in that language at the end . Still excellent .
Good Ol ' Charles Schulz is a fine episode of " American Masters "	Just finished watching " Good Ol ' Charles Schulz " , an episode of the PBS series " American Masters " . This celebrated cartoonist had long been a hero of mine because of the way he made universal the insecurities of everyday life by putting them in the leading character of his long-running comic strip " Peanuts " , one round-headed kid named Charlie Brown . We follow Mr . Schulz as he grew up as the only child of Norwegian-immigrant parents who rarely spoke much or shown much affection , then through a courtship with a woman named Donna who became the inspiration for Charlie Brown's Little Red-Haired Girl crush , his first wife Joyce who became Lucy in the strip , his second wife Jeanne , and finally his cancer and death . We also get interviews with his children , some friends , some art instruction colleagues like one actually named Linus , fellow cartoonists Jules Feiffer and Lynn Johnston , and his partners in the animated Charlie Brown specials-Lee Mendelson and Bill Melendez . In between all of this , we are shown panels that illustrate some aspects of Charles Schulz ' life that brought out some of the most profound humor in him . During the whole 90-minutes , one gets the feeling that despite his success , Mr . Schulz always wondered if he truly was loved by all the people that praised him or was it simply because of his fame . Hopefully , any mail he received after he announced his retirement shortly before he died in 2000 put any doubts he had to rest . This was a wonderful special that truly honored the life of Mr . Schulz . May " Peanuts " , which has rerun his classic episodes for millions of readers for the last 7 years , always be in the hearts of anyone who's ever felt like Charlie Brown ( which may be most of us ! ) .
A Tuna Christmas is a nice change-of-pace from the usual holiday fare	Having long seen this video on display in my local library and wanting to see anything that fits the Christmas season , I decided to check out A Tuna Christmas out of curiosity . Joe Sears and Jaston Williams are the only actors playing a multitude of characters that live in the small Texas town of Tuna as they all prepare for Christmas . It begins at a radio station then goes to a woman with two grown twins-a girl and a boy-at a house then to a diner then back at the radio station . . . and many other stuff that is impossible to describe . The humor comes naturally and is always based on characterization as opposed on one-liners . Ed Howard co-wrote with Sears and Williams a sort of Robert Altman-style of pacing that seems more improvised than scripted . Nice spreading of various holiday songs provided by mainly country artists like Randy Travis or Buck Owens throughout many transitions . Taped live at a theater in Dallas , A Tuna Christmas was a most enjoyable play that provided plenty of laughs with some touching drama near the end . If I ever come across its predecessor , Greater Tuna , I'll certainly check that out !
The House That Ahmet Built is one of the most essential docs of music history	This American Masters episode showcases the wonderful influence of Ahmet Ertegun , the founder of Atlantic Records . Since the label's founding in 1947 , some of the most popular Rhythm and Blues and Rock ' n ' Roll artists have worked for Atlantic . Among them : first artist Ruth Brown , Big Joe Turner , Ray Charles , Bobby Darin , The Coasters , Aretha Franklin , The Rolling Stones , Phil Collins and many more . Also covered are many of the Atlantic crew like engineer Tom Dowd , producer Jerry Wexler , and songwriters Mike Lieber and Jerry Stoller . Mostly , this two hour documentary covers Ahmet's life from his childhood in Turkey to his moving to the United States as a teenager when he experienced some of the most happening sounds of Harlem to his discoveries of some of the greatest musicians the world has ever known . Atlantic artist Bette Midler narrates this loving look at her boss that manages to capture Ertegun's essence just before he died after falling backstage at a Rolling Stones concert last December . Well worth seeking out for anyone interested in the history of Rock ' n ' Roll .
Jubilo , Jr . is an excellent " Our Gang " short with honest sentimentality	This Hal Roach comedy short , Jubilo , Jr . , is the twenty-ninth entry in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . In this one , the title character walks through a field and sees three tramps singing " That Old Gang of Mine " . As he sits with them , he reminisces about his boyhood days when his parents were poor . On his mother's birthday , the father refuses to buy her something since he felt he spent too much on Christmas . So Jubilo resolves to get a job that paid enough for $3 . 00 for a hat he sees through a store window . His first offer is to dig a hole for a dollar but the man who requested it was an asylum escapee . His friends , who had previously been turned down for baseball , offer to pay for covering the hole back up . Next , Jubilo hopes to get paid for carrying cement but , after the man refuses , he ends up dropping it in the muddy water with the rest of the gangs ' feet now stuck with the cement on the way home ! Finally , he decides to hold a circus with Joe posing as a strongman and Jackie posing as a Chinese juggler with balls attached to his head from strings . The profits only reached $2 . 70 so Jubilo reaches to the coin hidden on the refrigerator top for the rest of the balance . On the way home after the parents looked for the missing coin , the father spanks him before everything is explained and all is forgiven . And while the mother knows the hat is a bit fancy , she wears it to church the following Sunday . As Jubilo finishes his story , he's called back by director Charley Chase for the next take . Noticing the flower on his coat for his mother's birthday , Chase says , " You'll have to take that off , Mr . Rogers . " Will Rogers obliges then , with the take done , his mother arrives in a limousine and shows off that same hat she got from him all those years ago as they laugh and then Will introduces his crew to her after one last look at his old gang as we fade . . . While Leonard Maltin and Richard W . Bann were a bit confused by the way this story turned out in their definitive book about Hal Roach's Rascals , I was willing to take it as the way Will's ( fictional ) life was in the context of the short . Certainly , Mickey Daniels is excellent as the title character as a young man . Loved the way Mary , in flirting with Mickey , suddenly does a " pshaw " every time he ditches her . And some of the scenes I mentioned in the synopsis were quite funny in this very sentimental short . So on that note , I highly recommend Jubilo , Jr . P . S . The grocer that Jubilo ( Mickey Daniels ) offered to work for was his father , Richard . And , once again , kudos to the YouTube poster who added the music of the " Little Rascals " composer , LeRoy Shield , to this short .
Parasite ends Heroes ' second cycle	As Peter and Issac still grieve over the dead Simone , Issac gets angry at Peter for her death and still blames him as Peter gets away . Hiro still gets himself thrown out of the Las Vegas hotel even when he says he's with Linderman . Mr . Bennet explains to his boss that he can't remember anything from the previous day . When he comes back to his wife , she reminds him of what he told her about everything about himself and Claire before the Hatian guy wiped his mind . HRG's boss had retained Matt to read his mind but Matt got nothing and he's upset that the boss is not letting him go . Hiro gets Nathan to get him inside the hotel . Nathan has a deal with the FBI to turn in Linderman . A woman named Candace comes to HRG's room and tells him Thompson , his and her boss , have an assignment for him . They go to Issac's where he suddenly sees Simone back alive seconds after seeing her lay dead just before he answered the door . Then she turns back into Candace who can change into anybody . She and HRG convince him to go back to painting . With some help with drugs , he does . He does not like what he sees . The Hatian man is supposed to send Claire to Canada to assume a new name with a new family . But Claire manages to ditch him at the airport and flies to New York to look for Peter . She finds his mom who is at the door with the Hatian waiting with her . She calls Claire by her name and says she's her grandmother . Hiro finds the hotel museum curator and asks for something , then as the curator leaves , Hiro uses the computer and ID's the sword which opens the drawer that it's in . Hiro gets it and gets caught by the curator who presses an alarm that alerts the guards . One of them turns to be Ando who teleports with Hiro to New York only to find it already ruined . HRG goes back to his wife and finds she's Candace in disguise and she's with Thompson and some of his men . Nathan is found by Jessica , who just killed the FBI men , and has his wire taken out by her . When Nathan fights her , she turns back to Niki who warns him about Linderman . Nathan confronts Linderman and tries to kill him but backs down . During all this , Mohinder and Sylar ( who Mohinder thinks is the guy Sylar stole powers from ) , are trying to contact some people from the list but Mohinder is exhausted so Sylar tells him to relax . Sylar is drinking tea Mohinder served him and suddenly feels faint . Mohinder knows who he is and pulls a gun on him to exact revenge for his father's death ! After he shoots , the bullet stops near Sylar's face . Sylar has managed to use his mind to keep from getting hit and by the end of the episode when Peter arrives , Mohinder is hanging on the ceiling with blood spilling . Sylar prepares to cut Peter's brain as we see some of Peter's hair falling . . . Wow ! What a way to end another cycle before the next batch of episodes come April 23 . Nice to see Ian Gomez , who previously played Javier on Felicity which also featured Heroes ' Greg Grunberg , as the curator . There's also Life as We Know It's Missy Peregrym as Candace and Malcolm McDowell , who I know mainly from A Clockwork Orange , as Linderman . It's going to be a long wait until then but it'll be a nice way to think about what might happen before the next batch airs . Until next time . . .
Dr . Seuss ' Horton Hatches the Egg is an excellent Bob Clampett cartoon	This afternoon while I was waiting for Enchanted to begin , there was a preview for the new computer-animated feature , Horton Hears a Who ? with the voices of Jim Carrey and Steve Carrell . After going home and checking out the Cartoons , Model Sheets , and Stuff blog , I discovered the presence of another Horton tale from Dr . Seuss that I remembered from childhood called Horton Hatches the Egg that became a Warner Bros . - Bob Clampett cartoon . Anyone who's read HHtE will be glad to see how faithfully Bob adapted both the story and drawings to his short while adding some of his own gags and a ditty called " The Hut-Hut Song " . One of those gags had a fish that looks like Peter Lorre and as he sees the elephant sitting on an egg on a tree in a boat moving in the sea for the circus , well . . . Oh , watch the cartoon . And kudos to Mr . Clampett for making such a wonderful Dr . Seuss animated cartoon . The Cartoons , Model Sheets , and Stuff blog linked this from Daily Motion .
A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is another great Peanuts holiday special	Charlie Brown and his little sister Sally are planning to go to Grandmother's place for Thanksgiving dinner but Peppermint Patty invites herself , Marcie , and Franklin to the Browns expecting one themselves . Linus suggests making one before going to Grandma's so Snoopy and Woodstock start getting the table and chairs . As Peppermint Patty and friends arrive , she's disappointed at getting popcorn , toast , pretzels , and jellybeans instead of turkey , mashed potatoes , and pumpkin pie . Marcie apologizes on her friend's behalf before Patty also says she's sorry . Chuck's grandmother then calls and invites everyone over . . . Another great Peanuts holiday special that's as much a classic as the Great Pumpkin and Christmas one . I especially liked the " Little Birdie " song sung by the late great Peanuts score musician Vince Guaraldi . Snoopy's battle with a lawn chair during this number is the most hilarious scene in the special . As with the Christmas special , Linus recites a wonderful story of Thanksgiving's beginnings with great heart and sincerity . Unfortunately , ABC cut the scene of Snoopy and Woodstock walking to Charlie Brown's house in Pilgrim outfits and the tag of Snoopy and Woodstock pulling the wishbone with the bird falling backwards with the broken wishbone . So my rating of 10 here is based on the original unedited broadcast .
The Big Little Jesus is a touching Christmas episode of " Dragnet "	Having just seen the more tragic " Dragnet " holiday episode - " The Big . 22 Rifle for Christmas " - I'd thought I'd check the more positive-influenced one called " The Big Little Jesus " . In this one taking place on Christmes Eve-which is the same day of when this was broadcast in 1953-Friday and his partner Frank Smith ( this time played by Ben Alexander ) have promised Father Rojas ( Harry Bartell who was born in New Orleans in my home state of Louisiana ) to recover the stolen baby Jesus statue for the church nativity by the Christmas Day mass the next morning . I'll stop there and just say that this was a more lighter episode concerning the holidays as evidenced by Friday and Smith's banter about presents in the beginning scenes and that the ending was one of the most touching in the series history . Also appearing are Walter Sande , who died in my birthtown of Chicago , Illinois , as Captain Bernard and child actor Billy Chapin as Joseph Hefferman . His sister , Lauren , would later become one of the stars of the hit show " Father Knows Best " . Now I'm going to watch the remake for " Dragnet 1967 " . . .
The Tender Game is a wonderful showcase for jazz great Peterson and animator Hubley	The Tender Game is one of two animated shorts scored by the recently departed Oscar Peterson that Amid at Cartoon Brew showcased as linked from YouTube . John Hubley directed with wife Faith Elliott as editor and Robert Cannon and Emery Hawkins as animators . It's basically a boy-meet-girl story as abstractedly depicted to the strains of the song " Tenderly " as sung by Ella Fitzgerald in the beginning with Peterson and his Trio providing the rest of the instrumental bridge . What wonderful feelings are played on screen as advanced by both the music and the way the characters move to the rhythm ! Hubley gives a romantic dream-like vibe throughout with compelling aid from Ms . Fitzgerald and Peterson . Highly recommended for both jazz and animation buffs .
A Trip to the Moon may be Georges Melies ' most memorable film	Long considered Melies ' masterpiece , A Trip to the Moon is certainly his most memorable . Take that iconic rocket-in-the-moon's-eye image . That picture survives to this day because of its appearance in books about movies and sci-fi literature . There's also the fact that this was the first time that anyone had filmed an adventure that took place in outer space . And the way they defeated the moon " selenites " by simply hitting them ! Must of been wishful thinking to some enemies on Georges part . There's also some fascinating sequences of animated stars with faces on them followed by snow falling while the rocket passengers were sleeping . Obviously , we've come a long way in movie fantasy from Melies ' day . But because this film came WAY before moon landing existed , it's still incredibly intriguing seeing how people thought space travel might be like then . MOST definitely worth seeing for Melies enthusiasts and silent film lovers !
Gerald McBoing-Boing deserved its 1950 Oscar win	If there's one cartoon that helped to put UPA on the map more than any other , It's Gerald McBoing-Boing . This tale of a little boy who only speaks in sound effects has kept its charm for the last 57 years . Besides the effects , loved the music , the abstract animation and backgrounds , the narration by Marvin Miller , pretty much everything . And it won the Oscar for Best Animated Short of 1950 . Glad to have seen it on YouTube after reading about this Dr . Seuss story for so many years . And Rocky and Bullwinkle creator Bill Scott also contributed , how awesome ! Hope to see the subsequent shorts made in the series , if not on YouTube , then maybe in a DVD collection . Now I guess I'll watch another UPA short there . . .
Suzy Snowflake is another classic holiday stop-motion animated short	Like a previous song " Hardrock , Coco , and Joe " , " Suzy Snowflake " was made into a stop-motion animated short by Centaur Productions . As with the previous one , the choir sings with no musical accompaniment . They are the Norman Luboff Choir with Norma Zimmer singing lead . She would eventually be a " Champagne Lady " for Lawrence Welk . This was a pretty amusing short about the title character who makes snowmen . Loved the scene of a human innocent bystander accidentally becoming one . As with the above and a couple of UPA shorts , Frosty the Snowman and Peter Cottontail , they were all licensed by the song publishing company Hill and Range and were staples of kids ' Chicago TV for years . As with the others , this one is definitely worth a look .
See Leslie Caron's Oscar-nominated role in Lili	Lili is a romantic fable expertly visualized by director Chuck Walters and the MGM studio art department . Leslie Caron deserved her Oscar-nomination for her title character role . Kudos also to Mel Ferrer as the puppeteer who could only express his love to Lili through his characters . I also liked Jean-Pierre Aumont and , yes , Zsa Zsa Gabor as the magician Lili has an unrequited crush on and the woman assistant eventually revealed to be his wife . Look also for pre-Gunsmoke Amanda Blake in an early sequence . Wonderful dance sequences and use of the song " Hi-Lili , Hi-Lo " . One of the most awesome coming-of-age / showbiz movies ever made . Great for young and old alike .
Oral Hygiene is one weird short !	Oral Hygiene is a modeling clay depiction of a skeletal skull lip-syncing to the short's title recording by Bongos , Bass , and Bob , one of whose members was Penn Jillette ( presumably before he teamed with Teller ) . Animator David Fain has fun having various skulls with small arms and legs dancing and brushing and flossing to this unique tune . You also see some modeling clay ( each with one eye ) stepping up to the music . So snap your fingers to this entry from a Volume 5 videocassette of The International Tournee of Animation of 1992 . You'll be glad you did . This film was made at Cal Arts , the animation school founded by Walt Disney .
The Impossible Voyage is a fascinating Melies version of Jules Verne	After the success of A Trip to the Moon that had the iconic moment of the rocket lodged in the moon's eye , Georges Melies made The Impossible Voyage and had a train go into the sun's mouth . Then we see the passengers get all hot so someone gets all the ice but then all of them , except one who stayed outside the train , now gets frozen ! How they get unfrozen shouldn't be too hard to guess but I won't reveal here . There's also some good slapstick pieces involving fire and steam and luggage in the beginning . Wonderful use of color-tinting throughout . Like A Trip to the Moon , The Impossible Voyage is based on a Jules Verne tale and is just as fascinating as the previous film . By all means , if you're a Melies enthusiast , seek this one out .
Magic Fluke is another funny Fox and Crow cartoon from the newly formed UP	Just discovered this , the second Fox and Crow cartoon made by UPA for distribution by Columbia . With the Crow narrating , we're treated to him and the Fox as swing musicians at a nightclub just as the Fox gets an offer to lead a live symphony orchestra . He drops the Crow right then . Much later , the destitute Crow comes upon a large hall and sees the Fox once again , now a successful conductor . But no one can find his baton so the Crow steals one from a magician nearby and gives it to his old pal who leads in the same music that Bugs Bunny played in Rhapsody Rabbit years back . Like in that earlier short , some disaster results since the wand of the Fox is indeed magical as we witness the tricks that result . . . Quite hilarious , this cartoon , that it seems a shame that after one more cartoon , Punchy de Leon , the Fox and Crow were no more . I suppose UPA , being such an independent unit , didn't want to handle characters created by anybody else and went about creating their own like Mr . Magoo and Gerald McBoing Boing . But those characters probably wouldn't have had a chance if Columbia hadn't made them use their most successful creations at the time first .
The Field Mouse was another excellent M-G-M cartoon by Hugh Harmon	Just watched this M-G-M cartoon produced and directed by Hugh Harmon on YouTube . It's about these children mice on a farm doing work for their mama and grandpop . The mom catches one of her offspring , Herman , sleeping late and wakes him up by spanking him . After he cries to Grandpa , the ground starts shaking . The tractor is on the way ! And Herman and Grandpa get caught up in it ! No laughs here ( well , maybe near the end ) but a very thrilling chase ensues as one worries whether the two will make it . Those scenes inside the tractor and other machines are really well done . Oh , and I liked Mel Blanc as the voice of Grandpa especially when he's singing . And some of the most exciting scenes were animated by Don Williams . So on that note , I highly recommend The Field Mouse .
Jumping is one of the great animated shorts from Osamu Tezuka	Directed by Osama Tezuka , Jumping is one of the best entirely hand drawn animated shorts from the late ' 80s . After the title sequence with the credits quickly going up and down , we see point-of-view jumping shots going from the suburban neighborhood to some forests to some seascapes to over some tall city buildings to many war-torn areas to a giant mushroom cloud to hell twice with both times the devils trying to get you with their pitchfork to finally back to the beginning neighborhood where we hear a little child joyously crying , happy to be back in familiar terrain . Then the credits again jump as we fade to black . . . This short is most highly recommended to any animation fan . I first saw this in a VHS collection called The International Tournee of Animation , Volume 1 when I checked it out in the Jacksonville Public Library in the late ' 80s in that city's downtown area .
Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter ? is Frank Tashlin's masterpiece	First , let me mention a spoiler : Groucho Marx appears with Jayne Mansfield at the end as someone she used to know and was very much in love with . When she asks him why he never tried to kiss her , Groucho says , " I could never get that close ! " before his trademark raising-eyebrows-up-and-down . Because I knew of this beforehand , I decided to watch this on the 30th anniversary of Mr . Marx's death , which is today . Frank Tashlin has made one of the most satirical comedies of the ' 50s that makes great fun of television and the advertising industry . Tony Randall is great in the title role and Ms . Mansfield oozes both sexuality and humor in her over-the-top role . And there's a great cameo of her husband Mickey Hargitay . Kudos also to Joan Blondell , John Williams , and Henry Jones in support . Well worth seeing for anyone interested in all of the above .
Dough for the Do-Do is basically Porky in Wackyland filmed in color this time	Dough for the Do-Do is basically a color version of Bob Clampett's original black-and-white Porky in Wackyland with some changes done by Friz Freling . I actually haven't seen the first film version in its entirety yet so I wrote the previous sentence based on other comments I've read here . It certainly has many of the touches one usually associates with Clampett like the " rubber band " sequence ( with Mel Blanc's hilarious " music notes " that he would also use for Marvin Martian's trumpet ) . There's also a guy saying , " Let me out ! " constantly while holding just a jail cell window and a duck who looks like Daffy frequently saying , " Mammy ! " Porky is perfectly perplexed throughout the whole short as he tries to get the " last of the Do-Dos " . Loved the bird's constant " Do-do " sounds . Well worth seeing .
Chuck Jones ' Drip-Along Daffy is a very funny spoof of westerns	This cartoon from director Chuck Jones and starring Daffy Duck ( " western-type hero " ) and Porky Pig ( " comic relief " ) is a hilarious spoof of westerns that dominated kiddie matinées for years . Daffy is the new sheriff in town assigned to get rid of Nasty Canasta . A favorite sequence is Canasta ordering a certain drink that requires the bartender to wear a steel mask as the liquid is so poisonous that the ice run away in fear ! When Daffy gets his glass , he gives it to Porky who seems all right after swallowing it . Daffy then gets another serving , takes it , then gets a funny look on his face as he suddenly starts to recite " Mary Had a Little Lamb " with Porky then saying the next line with the same look ! There's a twist ending that vindicates Porky that I won't reveal here . All in all , Drip-Along Daffy is one funny cartoon .
The Old Man of the Mountain is a great Calloway / Fleischer cartoon	This was another awesome collaboration between the Fleischers and Cab Calloway . During the live-action credits sequence , dig the drummer who throws his drumstick up in the air twice and catches it both times ! Then hear Cab sing the title song with the orchestra playing throughout as Betty goes up to meet this bizarre old man who has designs on her . Both the music and the animation go together perfectly and I was feeling such a high watching this that I never wanted it to end but I was very relieved when it did so I could catch my breath ! In fact , rewatching this on my old VHS of " Betty Boop-Special Collector's Edition , Vol 1 . " , I have a new appreciation for the animators at the Max Fleischer studio . So on that note , The Old Man of the Mountain is highly recommended . P . S . Absolutely love the duet between the old man ( Calloway ) and Betty ( Mae Questel ) .
The Big . 22 Rifle for Christmas marks an initial " Dragnet " holiday offering	Christmas cheer has been emphasized all these years on radio , television , and most especially , the movies despite attempts to have more dysfunctional families in these holiday staples recently . For " Dragnet " s initial attempt at doing a holiday episode , however , they focused on a tragedy . First done on radio taking place on the date that was also the name of the broadcast day-December 22 which was the airdate in 1949 - " The Big . 22 Rifle for Christmas " was later filmed for the second television season before airing on December 18 , 1952 . In both , Joe Friday ( Jack Webb ) and his partner ( Barton Yarborough as Ben Romero on radio , Herb Ellis as Frank Smith on TV ) investigate a missing child with blood residue and a bullet being the clues in his backyard . Another child who he played with is also later missing . I'll stop there and say besides Webb the other performer who appeared in both the radio and TV version here was William Johnstone as one of the boys ' father . ( Interesting note : His surname was Morheim on radio and Martin on TV . ) Both versions were compellingly presented but there were some noticeable differences . Like on radio , the partner talked to one of the boys while here it's Friday meaning Ellis doesn't do much here . There's also one visual addition : as Johnstone slams his door , a Christmas ornament from a wreath falls and breaks . Most chilling in both versions is the last line from Joe : " Don't get a kid a gun for Christmas . " I'm sure even the N . R . A can't disagree on that ! With that said , " The Big . 22 Rifle for Christmas " episode of Dragnet explores just how traumatic childhood tragedy can really be though at least here some forgiveness is visited to the parties involved . . . P . S . I have to mention that Olan Soule , who played Ray Pinker here , had acted on stage in my birthtown of Chicago before going on radio in 1933 .
False Alarm is an irony-laden sex comedy short I found on atom . com	This is another short I found on atom . com under the heading " Sexy Comedy " . A man on the internet is arrested in his own apartment for being a child sexual predator . But he explains to the female detective , her partner , a fellow officer , a newspaper reporter , and his mother that he was just looking for someone who likes " golden showers " which is a semi-legal sexual practice of peeing or being peed . After all that is cleared , the female detective gets curious and tries it on her former culprit and finds she likes it ! Then there's an irony after the end credits . . . This was another hilarious short concerning humiliation surrounding taboos and other such stuff that I found on this comedy site atom . com . If you read between the lines of what I just wrote , you have probably guessed what the ending after the end credits is but the way it's presented doesn't seem too offensive unless you really don't find anything that I just described funny . . .
Vinni Pukh i den zabot is another charming Russian Pooh short	Another Russian Pooh story . This time the donkey , known from the Pooh stories as Eyeore , is sad because he has no tail . Pooh goes in search of one and finds it attached to a bell that hangs from the treehouse of one Owl . She ( yes , in this version it's a she ) is offered a bowl of honey from Pooh but she refuses to give the tail in return . Meanwhile , Piglet searches for a flower . I'll stop there and tell you that this short is twice as long as the previous ones at 18 minutes . The music , as usual , is charming and there's humor and sadness that should charm anyone , regardless of age or nationality , interested in all animation . Check it out on YouTube .
Ryan Larkin's Street Musique is a wonderful collage of animated images	Just watched this on the National Film Board of Canada site where they have about 300 of their material presented for your enjoyment . Having previously viewed and commented on a couple of shorts associated with animator Ryan Larkin , I was excited when Street Musique was presented on the NFB site twice in both French and English title form ( otherwise , it's the same film ) . Starting with black-and-white live-action of a fiddle player and a mandolin player performing on a downtown sidewalk , Larkin then does abstract line drawings on white that become images that are very hard to describe . He then does some watercolor ( at least that's what I think it is ) images that are likewise . All this is done to the music of those two players that matches the drawings perfectly . Nothing else to say except for anyone who loves abstract animation , I highly recommend Ryan Larkin's Street Musique .
Despite stereotypes , Bob Clampett's Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs is his masterpiece	This cartoon , Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs , has a unique place among the Warner " Censored 11 " cartoons : This one is highly inventive and very entertaining ! Oh , yeah , there's some unflattering stereotypes here like Prince Chawmin ' having a couple of dice for front teeth and the Queen being an ugly Mammy character ( who seems to speak with a male voice ) so jealous of So White she intends to have her " blacked out " but otherwise , it's so full of the fast pace of gags typical of Bob Clampett that you can't help but laugh your behind off ! And wait till you see Chawmin's face after constantly trying to bring So White back to life with his kisses ! Or the Dopey-looking dwarf's energy that he gives when doing the same thing ! There's also great use of jazz music that livens the short considerably . Perhaps the most interesting thing to point out here is that the storytelling Mammy in the beginning and end is Dorothy Dandridge's mom , Ruby , and So White is her older sister , Vivian . There's also a dated reference to killing Japs that I can excuse because of the wartime setting . So for all that , if you want to watch Warner Bros . cartoons at their wackiest as done by the highly creative Bob Clampett , I highly recommend Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs , stereotypes and all !
Wanted : No Master is a purely hilarious Milt Gross cartoon	This cartoon is so full of fast-paced " anything goes " humor that some things that would normally be now offensive , like putting something looking like blackface on a white character and having him talk in stereotypical " black talk " of the time , actually adds to some of the hilarity of a dog ( J . R . the Wonder Dog ) trying to get rid of his master ( Count Screwloose ) , because of how he keeps hogging the food at home , by getting him married to a rich frequent widow with loads of children . Despite the fact that the widow is homely , the dog fools his master initially when he pastes a classic beauty picture from another page over that of the widow's without him knowing . Milt Gross was probably an acquired taste at the time so one can't blame MGM for only letting him make two cartoons for them . Too bad , he'd probably be a cult figure today . . .
" Conjuction Junction " is another cherished memory from " Schoolhouse Rock ! "	With lyrics by Bob Dorough , Jack Sheldon ( who I just discovered was born in Jacksonville , Fla . , which is where I once lived for 10 years ) providing lead vocal and Terry Morrell backing vocal , " Conjunction Junction " is another great " Schoolhouse Rock ! " short animated musical that entertains while educating about the importance of " hooking up words and phrases and clauses " with and , but , or . The leading character is a train conductor who has those words printed on the side of the train cars . There's also a couple of hoboes who illustrate some of the verses . Done in a Big Band style , " Conjunction Junction " is one of the catchiest ditties I've ever heard in my childhood . And I love the ending line " I'm going to get you there if you're very careful . . . " Another gem I rediscovered on YouTube . Thanks , guys !
This Guy is Falling is a wonderfully quirky short from the studio responsible for the opening credits of Juno	Shadowplay Studios , the company responsible for the opening titles of the current hit Juno , is also responsible for this quirky computer animated short This Guy Is Falling , directed by Gareth Smith and Michael Horowitz . As a teenage couple in the front of a used car is arguing about the driver's ( a girl ) wisdom in her vehicle purchase , the boy next to her accidentally pushes a lever that suddenly causes the car ( and the other vehicles and people around them ) to go floating up in the air weightless . Among the people was another teenage passenger in the back seat who decides to leave them and find his girlfriend who's in danger of being weighted toward the propeller of a jet plane . I won't reveal anything else except that things get wonderfully weird and exciting after that with a twist that extends to a scene after the credits end . I found this on AtomFilms as linked from Cartoon Brew and recommended by Jerry Beck . Well worth seeing .
Automania 2000 is a British look at future materialism gone amok	Automania 2000 is a British animated short from Halas and Batchelor that depicts a future that is overrun by cars as the result of public demand for bigger and better ones . The effect is that cars stack up so much space in the world that people start living in them without going outside much . And then cars start reproducing themselves which cause even more girdlock . Partly humorous in tone owing to the cheery narration but pretty eerie visually , Automania 2000 is a compelling look at the not-too-distant time beyond the present that should give us lots to think about . Well worth seeing for animation fans . I discovered this unique short on YouTube through Cartoon Brew .
Little Miss Sunshine was much better than last year's Best Picture winner	If I was a member of the Academy and I had to pick Best Picture of the previous year with the choices between Martin Scorsese's The Departed and Little Miss Sunshine , I'd definitely pick the latter . This dysfunctional family road comedy-drama ( or dramady ) has some of the most realistic-funny dialogue I've watched from recent times . And the performances are all great from Greg Kinnear to Toni Collette to Steve Carell to Oscar nominated Abigail Breslin ( what a cute girl ! ) and , especially , Oscar winner Alan Arkin as the heroin taking grandpa who loves his grandchild and is so hilarious with his salty take on life ! Also loved Wallace Langham as the guy who played the music picked by the grandpa ( and didn't turn it off when some people got upset ) and , nice surprise here , Chloe O'Brien herself , Mary Lynn Rajskub as the lady who accompanies Olive ( Abigail's character ) to the stage . One of the best independently made movies I've seen in a while !
Rabbit Seasoning is another hilarious Bugs / Daffy / Elmer cartoon	Rabbit Seasoning is one of three cartoons that feature Bugs Bunny / Daffy Duck / Elmer Fudd in a war of words and wits about whether it's rabbit season or duck season . Love Bugs and Daffy stirring up " pronoun trouble " with Daffy always the victim of Elmer's shotgun resulting with his beak always getting dismembered . Then there's the rabbit's cross-dressing that always gets Elmer in his love struck mode . Chuck Jones and Michael Maltese are always favorites of mine in the writer-director team category because of these hilarious hunting trilogy cartoons I've laughed at since I was a kid . And at least two of them end with Daffy's exclamation to Bugs : " You're despicable ! " Can't get better that that !
Ugly Duckling is a sentimentally fine farewell in the Disney Silly Symphony series	This was the last Disney Silly Symphony and a very touching one to end the series on . In this one , a white duck that stands out in the crowd honks instead of quacks so his family instantly rejects him . After similar reactions from birds and a wooden mallard , he finally gets accepted by swans who all also honk . The end . Very touching from beginning to end and it's great to see such beautiful animation throughout . Especially good were those scenes of his reflections in the water the title character sees himself in that were suitably scored here . This is perhaps one of the most sentimental cartoons made by Walt Disney Productions during this time . So with all that said , I highly recommend The Ugly Duckling .
Four Monts Later is an awesome start for new season of " Heroes "	As Mohinder is lecturing , a bald figure wearing glasses watches . Afterwards , he gets an autograph from Mohinder who threatens him when asked about his sister . Seems he wants to form a new organization with him . In Honduras , grown brother and sister are running . They later take a ride on a caravan that doesn't turn out well . In California , Claire and father Noah ( formerly HRG ) start a new life as Claire enters eleventh grade . She almost gets hit by an SUV driven by a boy she later befriends . In New York , Ando and Hiro's father find on a picture of father a symbol that tells him he has 24 hours to live . Mrs . Petrelli finds same on her picture as she and Hiro's father confront each other . Her son Nathan , now drinking and unshaven , mourns the loss of brother Peter . When Hiro is dropped in Japan in 1671 , he manages to stop arrows in mid-air from killing him . He then finds out his hero ( David Anders , formerly Sark from " Alias " ) is from England , fights for money-not honor , and lets a village burn while drinking . After an awkward dinner , Noah takes a call from Mohinder who tells him that the plan with his old building is set up . Matt Parkman , who's just been made detective , is now divorced and living in Mohinder's old apartment with Molly , who's now having recurring nightmares about someone . After Claire calls bio-father Nathan who says he can't help her , the boy she met at school is revealed floating at her window before he flies away ! On the rooftop of the building Hiro's father stands , an unknown assailant with sword confronts him as the two fall off just as Ando runs toward them with a sword he was to give the father . He screams as he finds the dead bodies down below . We're then in Ireland where three men open a storage space with someone chained inside . It's Peter ! As they get closer to him , he manages to strike them back with a lightning-like speed ! As the episode ends , we find he doesn't know who he is . . . What an awesome way to start the new season ! Everything's intriguing here and so far there's no dead spots . I do wonder where Micah , DL , and Niki / Jessica are but we'll probably find out next week . Speaking of which , in the previews of such , we see Sylar is back . Should make another fun season of " Heroes " indeed ! Until next time . . .
The Christmas Story is perhaps the most touching episode of " Dragnet 1967 "	Having just seen " The Big Little Jesus " episode of the original " Dragnet " , I just went on Hulu to watch the remake for " Dragnet 1967 " called here " The Christmas Story " . It's basically word for word and scene for scene with some additions like Bill Gannon ( Harry Morgan ) bringing a little pine tree in the office and Friday narrating about giving suspect Claude Stroup ( Bobby Troup ) his rights since this episode was made after the Miranda rights were established . Once again the priest whose baby Jesus statue was stolen was played by Harry Bartell . Other reprise of original supporting actors were Herb Vigran as a hotel desk clerk and Ralph Moody as Mr . Flavin , a pawn shop owner . In fact , I chuckled when he questioned how Friday knew his name and declared they never met before ! ( The answer was his name being on the store window . ) I should note here that altar boy John ( not Joe as in the original ) Hefferman was played by Barry Williams two years before he became Greg Brady on " The Brady Bunch " and that Bobby Troup was married to singer Julie London who earlier was once wed to Jack Webb . Also , Byron Morrow , who plays Captain Mack here , was born in my birthtown of Chicago , Illinois . As with before , this version of the " Dragnet " Christmas story was one of the most touching in the entire series history . Well worth seeking out . By the way , this originally aired on December 21 , 1967 .
Peter Lorre is hilarious in Jack Benny Program role	Paired on Universal VHS with the last episode ever with The Smothers Brothers . Peter Lorre is hilarious whether trying to convince Jack he's not who he's like in the movies or in the sketch in which he tries to hide his identity as a wanted man in a doctor's waiting room with Jack as one of the waiting patients and Mel Blanc as the doctor ! Joanie Sommers sings a wonderful love song that probably sold some records despite rock'n'roll already conquering the country ( and with the Beatles U . S . arrival the following year , the world ) . This was one of Mr . Lorre's last performances before his death the following year so it's a real treat seeing him with one of the most deadpan comedians ever ! By all means , check this one out !
Fantasmagorie is a fascinating early animation short of chalk drawings	Emile Cohl's Fantasmagorie is perhaps one of the earliest film depictions of animation , in this case it's chalk drawings on a black board morphing from one scene to another without any real connection except for the way lines keep moving to any shape or form Cohl can think of . And it all happens in the space of two minutes ! So , historically , this is one of the most fascinating animated shorts ever . Audiences might have been even more awestruck then than we would be now what with all the improvements that have happened in the nearly one hundred years since then . So for all of the above reasons , this short gets a 10 .
Episode 210 or Caffeine marks an excellent season finale ( supposedly ) of " 30 Rock "	In a nutshell : Jack and C . C . are trying to make their relationship work , Liz attempts to buy an apartment , Jack is also attempting to make a deal with a German company to merge , and after Tracy buys a coffee machine-Kenneth gets addicted . . . Lots of random funny stuff happened in this episode that I can't recall them all but I'll try : In the cold opening Jack sees Liz first when she and C . C . are waiting at the same time . This results in Liz being rushed then after Jack's assistant says his 11 : 10 appointment is here ( C . C . ) and Liz leaves , Jack tells C . C . his last one took too long ! Then there's Liz taking the meeting with the Germans , since Jack is with C . C . in a park , and she inadvertently , because her German's not the best , gets NBC bought by them ! Finally , after Kenneth realized he's been " sodomized " ( because he's now doing " New York " things like buying sunglasses ) he decides to leave to go back to Georgia . That gets Tracy and his entourage singing " Midnight Train to Georgia " with Jenna joining in ( to Tracy's consternation ! ) . Kenneth comes back , however , because his train is actually leaving at 11 : 45 ! Then to top it all off . . . well , just watch the episode when it next airs or wait for the season 2 DVD . Like I said , a very funny episode and a nice way to end this strike-shortened season . That said , I hope the WGA settles with the producers and studios soon with many of the writers ' demands met by the end of the season so we actually have a next one . So in the words of Liz : Blurg ! P . S . Kudos to the Golden Globes for awarding Tina Fey , Best Actress-Comedy or Musical TV Series .
MILF Island is a most hilarious comeback for " 30 Rock "	Yay ! After a three-months-long writers ' strike , 30 Rock is back with a new episode ! Okay , in a nutshell : While the staff is watching " MILF Island " , Kenneth alerts Liz to a Page Six column that reveals a " TGS " staffer called Jack a " first class moron " who " eats poo " . Liz gets called to Jack's office and , after hearing from him how successful " MILF Island " is , asks about the Page Six item . So Liz now has to find out which one of her staff talked to a reporter . After getting nothing but the finger from everyone , Kenneth confronts Liz alone and reveals he knows it's her ! While he lectures her about how wrong lying is , Liz threatens him calling him an " apple-faced baboon " . Back in Jack's office , Jack tells about his stuttering days as a child that forced him in a special class with another one who " played with himself by the corner " . Liz then reveals her own childhood malady of having an extra foot that left her pigeon-toed after amputation . Meanwhile , the staff have been held in Jack's waiting room in humid conditions hoping someone would break , but everyone just bickers . Kenneth , having enough , takes the blame to Liz ' surprise and satisfaction . With that done , Jack should relax but reveals to Liz he still feels like the stuttering boy and starts to revert to his childhood condition when Liz confesses right there . Jack , his fake stutter gone , says he knew it all along and has her agree to write a spin off of the " MILF Island " winner on condition of silence . As the program ends , we see Liz still is pigeon-toed as she's walking ! Oh , and during much of this episode , Pete has his hand stuck in a candy machine where he was attempting to score some snacks . . . What a hilarious episode to come back to ! I especially loved the way some of the " MILF Island " scenes were running parallel to the events at " 30 Rock " and particularly when Liz mentions about looking for No . 1 at the same time a character on " MILF Island " was saying the same thing ! I also loved Kenneth's movements of prayer concerning Liz . At this point , I have to say this was the funniest episode of any television episode of the season so far . Welcome back , " 30 Rock " !
Hiatus marks a great season one end for 30 Rock	We hear a voice-over of Kenneth saying " Previously on 30 Rock " as we watch scenes from the last episode . Jack's mother ( Elaine Stritch ) comes by Jack's office and mistakes Liz , who she likes , for Phoebe , who she doesn't . Tracy escapes to a Pennslyvania town where he goes under an assumed name and stays with Kenneth's cousin , Jesse ( Sean Hayes ) . With Floyd in Cleveland , Liz communicates with him on the internet but when the picture " breaks up " , Liz decides to do the same . So does Jack when he suffers a heart attack while simultaneously trying to make love to Phoebe and listening to his mother shout through the door . Tracy comes back to the show in time after Kenneth purposely injures himself so they can ride the emergency vehicle after getting stuck in traffic . Sitting in Jack's hospital room , Liz playfully threatens to pull the plug as we end 30 Rock's first season . . . Lots of funny stuff this episode with virtually everyone in the cast appearing . Hilarious performance once again from Chris Parnell as Dr . Spaceman with my favorite part being when , after checking Jack's prognosis , he appears with blood on his suit and says , " Don't worry , I was at a costume party when a dog attacked me . So I had to stab him ! " Also great were Stritch and Hayes in their guest roles . Not so great was Rachel Dratch as Tina's doctor but hopefully she'll do more recurring roles next season . Hope Baldwin returns next season since the show wouldn't be the same without him . Have a nice summer , Ms . Fey , you deserved it ! Bring on the next season !
James Taylor got a wonderful tribute on Great Performances	This was an all-star musical tribute to MusiCares 2006 Person of the Year : James Taylor . The Dixie Chicks started the evening with their rendition of " Shower the People " . From there came Bonnie Raitt , Jimmy Buffett on tape amusingly comparing himself and Taylor over the years , Sting , Sheryl Crow with David Crosby and Jackson Browne , Allison Krause , Cheech Marin introducing Dr . John and Taj Mahal , India Arie , a surprise appearance by Bruce Springsteen , and Carole King singing " You've Got a Friend " which she wrote and sang on her best-selling " Tapestry " album and then Taylor made a No . 1 hit , all during 1971 . He joins Carole here to delightful effect . Then after accepting his award , James sang a song that saluted Martin Luther King , " How Sweet It Is " with his family on stage and then ended the show with " Fire and Rain " . All in all , a glorious treat to such a glorious person .
Greenzo is the most hilarious episode of " 30 Rock " this season yet !	Because the machine I recorded this episode on had to be returned , I had to go on nbc . com to watch Greenzo . This is the funniest episode of " 30 Rock " this season so far ! In a nutshell : Jack hires an out-of-work actor named Jared ( David Schwimmer ) to play an environmentally conscious character named Greenzo to appeal to kids on the " Today " show ( with an appearance by Meredith Vieira ) . A chipper Pete makes Jenna think he's having an affair which Liz doesn't believe . Kenneth sends invitations for his birthday party which initially only Liz accepts ( as she had the previous year ) . Tracy , though , resolves to make it an event by spreading rumors about various famous guests that he himself starts to believe in . What results is this : Jared gets too full of himself and is replaced by a Famous Politician , Liz finds Pete having an affair with his wife ( Paula Pell ) when she finds them in her bed , and Kenneth's party is an unmitigated disaster with everyone ashamed of themselves . . . I loved all the lines concerning Kenneth's party before the event , many of Schwimmer's concerning the environment , and especially Kenneth's admonishing everyone on their behavior at his party which , in quick-cut flashbacks , weren't as funny but when added to Kenneth's stern lines were pretty hilarious . Funniest visual was seeing Pete and his wife in Liz ' bed with the wife covering her breasts and seeing the pop-tart in that bed . Knowing Ms . Pell once wrote with Fey on SNL added to the humor for me . Everyone involved deserves a round of applause ! Oh , and that final line about the whale . . .
Jack Gets in the Game is another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock "	Jack invites Liz to his office to eat his $52 steak in front of him since his surgery has made him health conscious . While she's eating , he mentions Guiess ' retirement consideration and Jack wants his job . He then sees Liz finish the steak in two minutes . She says the dog ate some of it . Then quickly left . Jenna goes to Dr . Spaceman for weight reduction . He points to some clients on the wall which includes ALF and the unabomber . However , she changes her mind after a roller-disco fall on live television that results in her saying , " Me want food ! " , a writer's suggestion that was originally rejected by Liz , increases her popularity . Jack's rival for the chairman job , Devon , comes with Guiess ' daughter and tells him he intends to marry her despite being gay . While tailing his crush Kenneth , Kenneth slips about Jack's condition just as Jack comes in . So at Guiess ' dinner , Devon gives Jack his steak and lots of wine to goad him . Later at Guiess ' yard , Devon chokes on a hot dog which makes Jack make him promise to not make any more insinuations about his condition . Tracy sees Kenneth and his wife Angie flirting with each other but it's all a ruse to get them back together . In fact , according to Angie , Kenneth threw up right after kissing her . So the plan worked . Guiess tells Jack he knows about his health and tells him he's on the list and that he wants to eventually know his " secret family in Canada . " Liz moves on after using her wedding dress that she borrowed prop up a table that has two short legs on one side . . . Hope the synopsis I gave you was enough to tell you how hilarious this episode was . Everything was in fine form here and the guest turns by Rip Torn , Sherri Shepherd , Chris Parnell , and , especially , Will Arnett are welcome with the return of their recurring characters . Wish the ratings hadn't gone a little down after last weeks . Hopefully , NBC wasn't too worried about that . . .
High Diving Hare is a hilarious Bugs Bunny cartoon from Friz Freling	In this cartoon directed by Friz Freling , Bugs is the carnival barker announcing high diving daredevil Fearless Freep as the big attraction . Yosemite Same gets so excited he buys hundreds of tickets . Bugs gets a telegram saying Freep won't show because he's delayed by a storm . Sam ignores explanation and attempts to make Bugs do the dive . Several times . Now that you know the premise , I won't tell you the rest except to just watch . And the one scene where Sam says , " You notice I didn't say Richard . " is a reference to a then-current popular song called , " Open the Door , Richard " . Simply hilarious especially Bugs ' line at the end .
Smothers Brothers guest on final Jack Benny Program	This final regular episode of The Jack Benny Program starts with The Smothers Brothers singing what has long been Jack's Theme : Love in Bloom . Tom , of course , interrupts halfway through with Dick expressing annoyance throughout before completing their number . Jack then talks to the boys before they go to their skit : A " What If ? " concerning Jack's encounter with the boys during WWII . The skit ends with all three blown up then we see them ( or their dummies ) fall down at Benny's regular home stage and ( after editing ) reacting to what just happened . Jack and the brothers wave goodbye to us for what Jack must have thought was the last show of the season but turned out to be the final regular episode ever . He would only do occasional specials until his death in 1974 . This episode was amusing throughout and has no dated elements but low ratings made this Jack's only regular season on the NBC television network after fourteen years on CBS . I saw this on a Universal VHS with a hilarious Peter Lorre ep preceding it . By all means , seek this out !
Hard Ball is a very hilarious episode of 30 Rock	Josh's contract is up and Jack wants to play hardball but Liz just wants to be fair to her friend . Jenna is posing for the " Sexiest Funny Women " section of Maxim but gets in trouble when she gets misquoted about " hating " the troops ( she thought she was being asked about theater troupes ) . Tracy asks Kenneth to be part of his entourage but fires his other two when he finds out how they let him win at everything . I'll just stop there and say this episode is almost as hilarious as Tracy Does Conan . Love Jenna's slips and falls during her Maxim shoot , Tracy and Kenneth's singing , the way Josh's negotiation went , and the way Jenna's patriotic number went wrong at the end . Rachel Dratch is , as usual , hilarious as a Jenna protester . The fact that not too many viewers are watching this show is bothering me . Hopefully , that will change by the end of this season .
Fleischer's Popeye the Sailor is great animated start for Elzie Segar's comic strip character	The Popeye character we know and love is already intact in this , his first animated appearance on film . So is Olive Oyl and Bluto . Betty Boop is also in this , in fact , she was put on in order to attract filmgoers already familiar with her but not with Elzie Segar's popular newspaper strip . It's already known that William Costello was the first voice of Popeye but very few know that a woman named Bonnie Poe was the first voice of Olive , in fact when I first saw this cartoon I already noticed how different she sounded from Ms . Oyl's usual voice ! Since she was also Betty Boop , Mae Questal probably didn't want to do two voices in the same cartoon or maybe the public would be confused since they both sound the same anyway ! Before Jackson Beck , William Pennell did Bluto , though I really can't tell the difference here . Fleischer-type gags abound throughout and , yes , we have the now-famous Popeye theme song and spinach finale introduced here . Well worth seeing for Popeye and animation fans .
Bedtime for Sniffles was a cute Christmas cartoon from Warner Bros .	" In about 1 hour , 33 minutes , and 47 seconds , Santa Claus will be here ! " So says Sniffles , a cute mouse from Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros . Cartoons ) during the ' 40s . He's trying to stay up late waiting for the bearded man in the fat red suit by drinking coffee , listening to the radio , etc . Will he succeed ? Chuck Jones , the one animation director during this period of Looney Tunes-Merrie Melodies that didn't go for straight gags , takes his own sweet time in finding various ways to get Sniffles ' attempting to stay awake as entertaining as possible for the next 6 minutes . Nothing hilarious here , just some mild chuckles but Jones succeeds in his goal . I was especially amused by one magazine ad that reminded the mouse of sleep that had a boy toddler in nightgown holding a candle with the slogan , " Time To Re-Tire " which was an actual one for the now-defunct tire company Fisk ( there was still one in the Baton Rouge area when I first moved there in 1975 ) . For fans of both Christmas cartoons and those made by the folks at Termite Terrace , I highly recommend Bedtime for Sniffles .
Pan-tele-tron is an wonderful animated educational short	Just saw this British animation short on Cartoon Brew . Pan-tele-tron is a pretty entertaining look at the way communication was achieved through the eras from wires to telephones to radio to television . Produced and sponsored by Phillips , this film has that wonderful ' 50s abstract look so common for this era . While you do see the Phillips logo at the beginning and end , there are no blatant product placements of their items anywhere in this animation short . Instead , you get a wonderful education of communications throughout the centuries and their inventors like Alexander Graham Bell and Marconi . Well worth seeing for animation and history buffs .
Hear hilarious Mel Brooks in The Critic	After years of hearing of the short narrated by Mel Brooks as a very old man , I finally got to see The Critic on YouTube . All that abstraction and Brooks as an 81-year-old Jewish man from Russia about to die soon has got me in stitches ! And that harpsichord music ! If you've only known Brooks as the co-creator of " Get Smart " or the director of such movie classics as The Producers , The Twelve Chairs , Blazing Saddles , Young Frankinstein , and Spaceballs ( I know some might dispute the last title ) or as the 2 , 000-year-old man with straight man Carl Reiner , then I highly recommend you seek out The Critic on YouTube and hope someone puts it out on DVD soon ! Also recommended to animation buffs especially Ernie Pintoff fans .
Go Your Own Way is the best episode of " Swingtown " yet !	Wow , " Swingtown " just got a lot more interesting ! How , well , in a nutshell : Trina invites Susan to a fund-raiser she and Sylvia , who's a lawyer , are having for an actor in trouble with the government . Turns out he's Harry Reems from the porn movie Deep Throat . Susan , not having seen the film in question , declines and gets Sylvia asking if she lets her husband have the opinions . Trina later checks on her new neighbor at Janet's Tupperware party and asks if she's all right . Susan explains she felt stupid in front of Sylvia . Trina says that's the last thing she expects to hear from her new friend and gives her the papers that tell of why Reems is being prosecuted . When hubby Bruce arrives home , he's upset that his wife didn't pick him up and that she wants to go to a porn party . Susan , in turn , wonders why she didn't get to see Deep Throat when Bruce went with his co-workers some time ago . Her hubby says it wasn't for her . Since she doesn't accept that , Susan goes to see the movie by herself and later tells Janet about it hoping she would go with her to the fund-raiser . Janet declines not wanting to associate with " filth " despite not having seen the movie either . Before getting back to that plot point , let's recap a few others : Tom began his first Tokyo flight and makes calls to Trina when he arrives there . He's not completely alone since his co-pilot brings a Japanese woman at his hotel along with other stewards and stewardesses . B . J . and Samantha buy a volleyball net using money Sam got selling a couple of her mother's " cigarettes " and later bond a little more when that mom goes to the Reems party . Laurie's ex-boyfriend tells her about seeing Teach leave her house and warns her he might not be one any longer . And Roger wonders what happened to his wife's " pot smoking-skinny dipping " self when she still insists on having sex every other Friday night ? Okay , with that out of the way let's go back to the party : Harry Reems is greeted warmly by everyone , even Janet who comes after all to mainly support Susan and manages to giggle at some of Harry's lines . Only Samantha's mom , Gail , unnerves Harry . Meanwhile , Bruce and Roger are at their bowling place celebrating their victory when talk turns to Susan and Janet and their going to the party . They quickly go there with Bruce demanding Susan leave while Roger offers Janet to do the same as a private screening of Deep Throat starts . Janet decides to watch the movie as Roger likewise stays with her but Bruce leaves in a huff . Trina leaves partway during the screening to comfort Susan who's wondering if Bruce is willing to accept the changes she's gone through lately . Trina , no doubt thinking what she's going through with Tom , says change is never easy for any couple . Sylvia , by this time , also apologizes for her behavior which Susan accepts . And with that , all seems to go well : After Samantha admits to B . J . she wishes she was perfect like Nadia Comaneci , B . J . tells her through the walkie-talkie to look through her window as he gives her a 10 . 0 . Laurie tells her ex to just let her go after reminiscing about how they met . Tom decides not to go to the " basement " since he wants to just be with his wife . After accepting Reems ' singed picture , Janet and Roger spontaneously make love back home . Well , almost all went well : After telling Bruce she wasn't trying to upset him with what she did but was simply making her own choice , Susan gives him a kiss but with hubby still upset she goes to the kitchen with daughter Laurie sitting there . When Laurie finds out her mother went to the party after all , all she says is , with pride , " Way to go , Mom ! " . . . This was an excellent episode about a real-life event that provided enough drama and humor to keep me entertained throughout . Loved Reems ' invitation to Janet and Roger to go to the " basement " , which Janet in the pilot had been appalled at earlier , and the couple's quick and polite decline . And that Janet wished Harry good luck ! Loved Samantha's smile when she got her score . Loved the way Laurie handled her ex's threats though once again I'm worried about her relationship with Teach . And the period songs they pick here are great though once again there's an anachronism : " Couldn't Get It Right " by The Climax Blues Band came out a year after the summer of ' 76 setting . Other than that , this was the best episode of " Swingtown " I've seen so far . So with that note , until next time . . .
Ryan is an excellent tribute of Canadian animator by Chris Landreth	When Ryan Larkin , the Canadian animator from the late ' 60s / early ' 70s died recently , Cartoon Brew paid tribute by showing Syrinx ( 1965 ) and this Oscar-winning short by Chris Landreth . It follows Landreth interviewing Larkin is a visual style that I can only describe as psychedelic with the florescent way each faces were colored and lighted . Various associates of Larkin like his longtime girlfriend Felicity comment on the artist's life and career like his troubled childhood with his father or his cocaine and alcohol addiction . Well worth seeing for various animation types of both Landreth and Larkin as displayed in clips of a couple of his shorts like Walking ( 1969 ) and Street Musique ( 1972 ) .
The Christmas Story is a wonderful holiday version of " The Amos ' n ' Andy Show "	Today , I decided to listen to the radio version and watch on Google Video the TV version of " The Christmas Story " episode of " The Amos ' n ' Andy Show " . Both are pretty much the same story word for word and scene for scene . Well , actually , the TV version has an additional scene of the birth of Amos ' child Arbadella ( Patti Marie Ellis ) who nine years later wants a talking doll for Christmas . Her uncle Andy , despite being broke , resolves to get it for her by becoming a Santa's helper in the Globe department store . There he encounters kids both kind and bratty . I'll stop there and mention that Alvin Childress as Amos really shines here especially when he explains to daughter Arbadella what " The Lord's Prayer " really means . Andy himself is more of a sympathetic character here then his usual more slightly naive portrayal . Both Lightnin ' and Kingfish provide their own brief amusements . All in all , both the radio and TV version of " The Christmas Story " are very worthy tales for the holiday season . By the way , the Paul Taylor Chrous provided the " The Lord's Prayer " song and " Silent Night " on the radio version from December 22 , 1944 . And I have to mention that Charles Correll-who played Andy on radio-died in my birthtown of Chicago , Illinois on September 26 , 1972 . Also Amos ' wife Ruby ( Jane Adams ) was added for the TV version .
Five Years Gone is a very poignant episode of Heroes	At the end of the last episode , Hiro and Ando had teleported to a devastated New York five years later and had encountered Future Hiro . Suddenly , Matt Parker , who's with Home Security , and his men have the present day Hiro arrested while Ando and Future Hiro escape . During interrogation , Matt receives a call . It's President Nathan Petrelli . He threatens to replace Matt if he can't get info out of Hiro ( of course he means the future one but neither know Matt has the wrong one ) . Petrelli has staff member Mohinder prepare for Plan B , the destruction of all special-powered people . Mohinder voices his opposition but reluctantly agrees to it as a last resort . Peter now hangs at a strip club where his girlfriend Niki performs in order to forget the tragic deaths of D . L . and Micah from the New York bomb that Peter reveals he caused but Nathan , his brother , put on Syler to protect him . Future Hiro finds him there to get him to help him take the other Hiro back . While Peter thinks this over HRG is now in charge of protecting other super-powered peoples ' identities in his version of the witness protection program . His daughter Claire now has black hair and is a waitress in a diner that HRG frequents . She is also engaged to a fellow employee there . Her father tells her to relocate again but she hesitates so she goes to her bio-father Nathan in his office . She starts to leave when she hears of his Plan B but Nathan uses his powers to stop her and cut her brain as it's now revealed he's actually Syler ! Matt finds the Future Hiro and almost arrests him but then Peter freeze-frames everything and has Hiro and Ando escape leaving a confused Matt . The next day is the 5-year anniversary of the New York bombing as Syler as Nathan addresses the nation downtown . Future Hiro , Peter , and Ando are now teamed up to get Present Hiro just as Mohinder and the Haitian are about to drug him . Mohinder , at the last minute , gives the needle to the Haitian instead as he helps P . H . escape . As Future Hiro reaches his other self , he's about to tell him how to teleport to the right era just as Parkman shoots him dead ! Hiro , shocked at seeing his future self die , suddenly has doubts but Ando tells him to not succumb to them as Hiro and Ando will themselves back to the present . " Now comes the hard part . " Hiro declares . . . During the whole episode , I felt myself become almost emotionally drained at the despair of the Future Hiro and Peter's revelation to Ando when F . H . is out cold that Ando's death during the bombing stripped Hiro of his optimism . That and Future Hiro's death really got to me . It was nice to know that Matt's wife and future boy were protected . After Peter's " death " at Sylar's hands in last week's episode , it was great to see them battle again here ! New York's 5-year bombing anniversary memorial seemed reminiscent of televised live anniversaries of every year . A very poignant episode . Only three more to go .
How to Stop an Exploding Man an excellent season finale for Heroes	As scenes from the last 22 episodes are flashed on screen , Mohinder narrates about purposes . Hiro searches for Ando who took the sword and is seeking Sylar . Hiro's father reluctantly agrees and gives his son his own sword . In Issac's apartment , Ando finds Sylar and attempts to kill him . Sylar banishes him to a window and tries to cut his head off just as Hiro teleports there and eventually succeeds in transferring himself and Ando back to their Japanesse offices where he leaves Ando with his own sword and takes his father's with him back to New York . Mohinder and HRG are pointing guns at each other as little tracker girl Molly looks under a bed and recognizes a passed out Matt Parkman as the cop who saved her way back . Matt vouches Molly's character as all three use her to identify Sylar's whereabouts . Peter takes Claire back to his brother-and her bio-father-Nathan who , in private with Peter , tries to talk him into keeping Claire out of the situation . When Peter refuses he goes back to find Clarie gone . As he searches , Peter teleports from one place to another and , as he passes out , finds himself back to when he was a nurse caring for Charles Deveraux who is visited by mother Petrelli and his daughter Simone who meets Peter for the first time . After past Peter leaves Charles and Mrs . Petrelli , current Peter overhears his mother and Mr . Deveraux discuss the upcoming bombing and debate the merits of the Petrelli brothers . After his mother leaves , Peter is startled to hear Charles acknowledge his current self's presence and asks if he's dreaming or traveling through time . Charles says it doesn't matter and there is a reason for everything . At this point , Peter is awoken by HRG , as they prepare to go to the top of the Kirby building to stop Sylar . It's here that we find out HRG's-Mr . Bennet's-first name is Noah . In that building , Niki is propping bullet-ridden D . L . and leaves him at elevator promising to come back . She searches a room where she finds Candace-as-Jessica waiting to beat her . During the fight , Jessica in a broken mirror glass reveals to Niki she's not fighting her and convinces her to knock Candace out . She does as Candace turns to her real self . Micah , who was lying on the floor this whole time , vanishes as Niki hears his voice and opens to find him locked in a closet . They then leave to find D . L . It's at this point that Molly senses Sylar nearby as Mohinder and Matt leave to go to the elevator where Micah and Niki have arrived toward D . L . Molly tells Micah the elevator doesn't work but with his hand Micah fixes it as they all go to the top of the building . Up there , Peter and Sylar duke it out with Matt and Hiro helping out . Matt gets his bullets thrown back at him while Hiro's sword goes through Sylar's stomach but not enough to keep Sylar from throwing Hiro off the roof . Peter's hands are still lighting up , however , as he begs Claire to shoot him . Just then , Nathan appears and flies Peter off into space as the explosion detonates far , far , away . Mohinder , as narrator , sums it all up as " End of Volume One " prints on screen . Then we're in a grass hill as " Volume Two , Generations " is printed . Hiro lands here in what is 17th century Japan about to be surrounded by some samurai . Fade to black as the screen says for the last time this season , " To Be Continued " . . . A mostly wow finish with Claire going out the window several feet above then regenerating once again on ground one of the coolest effects ever . Loved seeing Richard Roundtree and George Takei again . Also loved seeing Niki hit Sylar with the parking meter . Maybe some inconsistencies but very enjoyable season finale nonetheless . Hope to be back next season . Until next time . . .
. 07 % is another excellent episode of Heroes	In the first new episode in over a month , HRG , in one cell , mind-communicates with Matt in another to get Ted from another cell as they plan their next move after escaping . Linderman shows Nathan his collection of paintings that were bought from Issac and talks of saving the world while looking at one with New York City being destroyed . Peter walks into Mohinder's apartment and finds him on the ceiling being held by Sylar . Mohinder watches as Peter and Sylar battle with various power skills ending with Sylar using shattered glass to kill the invisible Peter . Mohinder then takes Peter to Mrs . Petrelli before leaving . Nathan arrives in mourning then Claire , having just discovered Nathan is her bio-father , requests to be alone with Peter . As she pulls a shard glass from Peter's back of head , Peter suddenly wakes up . Peter convinces Nathan to talk to his newly found daughter . Nathan convinces Claire to go to Paris for a week , as suggested by his mother , during the final stages of his upcoming election in order to avoid a scandal . Linderman has a meeting with Jessica . He wants her ( actually Niki's ) son Micah for something . Jessica says , " No Deal . " ( Not an exact quote but you get what I'm saying ) When Linderman arrives at her house , she seemed to have changed her mind . After Micah is gone , however , Jessica turns back to Candace , the woman who can change into other people , just as the real Jessica arrives . After Issac gives a departing fan his final works and his sketch book , Sylar confronts him and succeeds in killing him just like in his painting : by chopping his forehead off . We then dissolve to five years later as we find Hiro and Ando to when we last saw them : in a devastated New York . Hiro then goes to Issac's apartment where we see string of various articles and photos representing a timeline before he and Ando go back outside where Hiro meets his future self . . . Awesome episode from beginning to end . Loved the whole sequence between HRG and Matt as Matt keeps following his orders and the way some jump cuts were made here . I have to admit I cried when Claire looked at the dead Peter and said , " I didn't even get to know you . " Hope Nathan keeps his promise of Claire coming back to the family after the election . The battle between Sylar and Peter was so rockin ' and intense , I was beside myself ! And the way they cut to Issac's painting of the chopped forehead just as it was actually happening should be scary enough to anyone under 12 watching . Poor Issac , rest in peace . Next week's episode , Five Years Gone , should be good .
The Wise Little Hen is notable as the debut of Donald Duck	Just watched on YouTube this Disney Silly Symphony that's important for one reason and one reason only : It's the debut of Donald Duck and that of his creator , Clarance Nash . In this one , it's the musical version of the moral fable " The Wise Little Hen " with Florence Gil voicing the one who asks Donald and his friend Peter Pig ( Pinto Colvig ) for help in first planting the corn and then harvesting them . The both fake bellyaches and when it comes time to eat the results . . . well , watch the short . Both entertaining and educational , The Wise Little Hen is highly recommend for fans of Disney and animation and especially that lovable short tempered duck ! And it's all because of Mr . Nash that we owe a heap of thanks so thank you , Clarance , wherever you are !
Jasper's in a Jam is a most excellent musical George Pal Puppetoon	Jasper's in a Jam is one of the most entertaining shorts from George Pal Puppetoons to feature a little black boy . Instead of the usual shanty that the Jasper shorts usually take place in , this one's setting is at a big-city apartment that has a pawn shop with various musical instruments . When Jasper finds himself trapped in this pawnshop , many of these instruments come to life . With music by Charlie Barnet and vocals by Peggy Lee , Jasper's in a Jam has some of the most coolest collage of melody and visuals from a doll-animated film . So it is with great enthusiasm that I recommend this short to any fan of Big Band music and to many George Pal completists , bar none !
Tulips Shall Grow is another excellent George Pal " Puppetoon " short	Like a few other shorts I just reviewed , Tulips Shall Grow was another one I just discovered on the Europa Film Treasures site . George Pal directed this " Puppetoon " after he moved to the United States and started to work for Paramount . In this one , a Dutch young man and young woman are enjoying themselves among the tulips dancing before an ominous team of war soldiers called " Screwballs " ( who are literally screws with bolts for heads ) wreak havoc in planes on windmills . The tragic happenings that follow truly pack a wallop before the inevitable happy ending comes and the message " Tulips Shall Always Grow " prints on screen . Once again , Pal outdoes himself in quality which became evident when this short got an Oscar nomination . Highly recommended .
Rudolph , the Red-Nosed Reindeer is the most classic of Rankin / Bass holiday specials	What can I say about Rankin / Bass ' initial doll-animated Christmas special Rudolph , the Red-Nosed Reindeer that hasn't already been said by many of the posters here ? Only that despite some now sexist notions of many of the adult male characters , this special seems very forward thinking in promoting individuality , represented by Hermie and Rudolph , as opposed to stifling conformity . Of course , the real reason this special has stood the test of time is because of the innocence of the Rudolph story that continues to charm both kids and adults who have never outgrown this classic every year . Burl Ives is at his most charming as narrator Sam the Snowman singing , besides the title song , " Silver and Gold " and " Holly Jolly Christmas " . Writer Romeo Muller has added such charming characters as Yukon Cornelius , Clarice the Doe , and the head of Misfit Toys , Charlie-in-the-Box . Having seen this for the first time since the ' 80s , I can still get touched when Santa says the famous line about Rudolph with his nose so bright won't . . . well , you know . So watch with some kids , or relieve your own childhood , and enjoy The Most Famous Reindeer of All on regular TV or VHS / DVD every Christmas . It sure wouldn't be the same without Rudolph !
Photocopy Cha Cha is surreal and a little bit . . . erotic	Chel White takes images , all from black-and-white photocopied pictures , and mixes them in a dissolving dream-like state to a somewhat familiar whistling electronic instrumental that blows your mind . Various men and women in stages of undress keep you in a sexy state of mind that you won't forget . I most certainly do not recommend this for children until they at least turn 18 ! This was a unique entry in The 23rd International Tournee of Animation available in a Volume 5 videocassette from 1992 . Definitely seek this out if you're looking for something unusual . Dedicated in loving memory of Duke Ellington and Perez Prado .
Seance on a Wet Afternoon is a great British suspense film	This was a British picture that I had long wanted to see so when I went to my local library and found this there , I quickly checked it out . Kim Stanley and Richard Attenborough are perfectly chilling as the séance wife Myra and reluctant kidnapper Billy . Judith Donner , in her only role , brings a subtle naturalness as the child Amanda who they " borrow " from a wealthy couple . Also good were Mark Eden and Nanette Newman , who's married to the film's director Bryan Forbes , as the child's parents , Mr . and Mrs . Clayton . John Barry's score brings various shades in many chase scenes and some quietly chilling ones involving Myra and Billy . And Forbes brings measured tension in many point-of-view shots . The suspense involves psychological emotions that cut to the bone and brings a compellingly British flavor to the concluding scenes . So for all that , I highly recommend Seance on a Wet Afternoon .
Corpsicle is one of the best episodes of " Pushing Daises " yet	Because Chuck has left after finding out Ned inadvertently killed her father , Ned can't concentrate on the case at hand which is this : an insurance salesman is found dead this snowy day in front of a snowplow . When Ned touches him , this salesman says he was hit with " kindness " which was written on a bat with that word . This trail leads to a boy with no heart who's been refused a transplant by this company . When Ned asks Olive about Chuck , Olive reveals she's with her by answering Ned's questions with more of those . Wanting someone to confide in , Chuck reveals to Olive why she's still alive but Olive doesn't believe her . When Oscar from underground comes by The Pie Hole's roof , Chuck allows him to take a lock of her hair so he can find out about her . After some time has passed , Chuck feels better and when Oscar tells her he'd rather she told him about her unusual smell , Chuck takes back her hair . Oh , and with Olive making the pie for for Vivian and Lilly , she puts a little too much of the " vanilla " Chuck usually puts in resulting in Lilly , who ate the whole thing , revealing she is Chuck's mother . . . Another wonderfully whimsical episode of " Pushing Daises " that takes further steps in forwarding characterizations . Like that Emerson has a daughter he hasn't seen for a while . Or the revelation of Lilly . Hilarious seeing her hallucinations like that of a crab suddenly appearing ! Also loved Olive's constant mentioning of " bosoms " . Or Chuck's of " bum " in referring of Digby's hair there being cut . Paul Reubens is great as Oscar . And nice seeing Grant Shaud , formerly Miles Silverberg on " Murphy Brown " , as another insurance salesman . So much good stuff here , it's too bad this is the last episode before the writers ' strike went into effect . Hopefully , it will end before the season does . Until then . . .
The Gallery Show is the best episode of " Samantha Who ? " I've seen so far	In a nutshell : Samantha receives an invitation to ex Todd's photo gallery show . She goes to the apartment intending to tell him she's not going but Todd spills that Chloe didn't want Sam to come . So Sam tells him she's now dating someone named Rance . Moments later , after failing with Andrea and Dena's help to find someone suitable at the library , Sam finds someone trying to illegally unlock a car named Craig ( Jerry O'Connell ) . She's found her Rance ! At the gallery , her parents Regina and Howard are looking around with Howard bored throughout when they spot a picture of a naked woman with no head and her breasts covered by her arm . Howard stops at that then turns when Regina reveals it's their daughter . Meanwhile , Dena turns up at the wrong gallery that has a talking man in a glass cage because Andrea intentionally gave her the wrong instructions . The glass cage man gives her the right one after getting irritated at Dena's constant jabbering . Back at the real gallery , Craig offers to take her coat and purse which gives Sam a flashback of when her bad self was mugged . Guess who the mugger was ? So Sam tries to get him off the premises before anyone noticed just as she confronts Todd and Chloe . After the usual rounds of " I'm over you " , Sam tells Craig about their earlier encounter and Craig confesses stopping after encounter after she broke his arm . Just as things become okay with them however , the alarm sounds when Craig leaves temporarily prompting Sam to shout " Thief ! " Turns out Howard was stealing Sam's photo to keep anyone else from looking . That prompts Chloe to bare her breasts to Todd in a fit of jealousy . Oh , brother ! After Craig leaves for good , Todd admits to Sam he put the red dot ( meaning it had been sold ) on her display because he couldn't part with it so it seems they might be an item again . Just before they leave together , Dena finally arrives with Chapman to tell Andrea her new office will be in the copy room ! . . . Wow , this episode fired on all cylinders ! The lines were so hilarious here that I dare not quote them lest I spoil anyone's else fun . If anyone wonders if the girl - loses - memory - tries - to - be - better - person premise would actually work for the long run , the events happening here seems to be as good a place as any to apply in the affirmative . With only two episodes left , I can't wait to see how it all ends up this first season !
The Butterflies is another hilarious episode of " Samantha Who ? "	As Sam talks with Dena about her encounter with Todd in the last episode on her way to work , her boss , Mr . Chapman , walks by . He overhears Dena tell Sam to " let your heart be your dog " in comparing love and pets . When Sam gets on the elevator with Chapman , they both stay quiet until Chapman , about to exit , tells her , " I want her . Make it happen " . Sam is reluctant even after Andrea tells her about wanting new chairs that make butts comfortable . Then she realizes her mall project has attracted protesters because it's being built on a ground with rare butterflies in danger of extinction . So after Dena agrees to date Sam's boss and getting along so well with him as a result , Sam and Andrea give their requests which Dena relays to him . The result : Andrea gets her chair but Dena got convinced how good business the mall project is . Then Sam comes up with alternate plans that would spare the butterflies but all her boss can talk about is Dena and wants to know from Sam what her feelings are for him . Sam agrees on condition the mall project is delayed . She then convinces both lovebirds to hold back on their feelings and also tells Chapman about Dena's old boyfriend coming back . With both finding out the truth at dinner however , Dena admonishes Sam about her intentions and says the bulldozers are operating in the morning . Sam's joining the protesters gets her on the local news and while apologizing on-air to Dena as she and Chapman are about to make love , Dena accepts . With the dozers still going through however , Sam quits her job and waits with Frank the doorman for Todd , who brushed her off the last time by lying to her of a new photo job with the local paper , to come out . As he does and tells Sam of wanting to make it work with Chloe , Sam kisses him , then pushes him back saying , " Lose some sleep over that ! " She then leaves with her belongings as she encounters that rare butterfly which continues flying through the credits and the logos at the end of the program . . . Another hilarious episode of " Samantha Who ? " with highlights being the chemistry between Melissa McCarthy and Rick Hoffman . Their dialogue and facial expressions are so spot on here . Jennifer Esposito as Andrea is also compellingly funny here whether enjoying her new chair or the coffee machine as the result of Dena's newfound stature . Can't wait for the next episode so until next time . . .
Porky Pig gets an education in Old Glory	I first saw this Porky Pig educational cartoon short on Buskin Bill's Storyland in the Bicentenial year of 1976 . I later saw it after James Cagney's Yankee Doodle Dandy on a Saturday night on that same channel of WAFB-9 , Baton Rouge , La . ( possibly on the 4th of July ) . Having recently seen it on YouTube , I must marvel at how bright the colors are compared to the washed-out tones I remember from way back when . Great use of having Uncle Sam telling our stuttering hero about the American Revolution and subsequent events with wonderful realistic animation throughout to make their point . Highly recommended to any child who wonders why history is so important to learn .
Take It to the Limit was an intriguing season finale to " Swingtown "	At the last episode's end , Susan realized Bruce lied about leaving his briefcase at his workplace where he was " going to " when she saw its place at home . So when he returns home and " explains " why he wasn't home past midnight , Susan gives him the keys to the car and doesn't return his kiss . At the Thompsons ' , Roger reveals Janet his accepting the landscaping job offer in Cincinnati and tells her to start moving . Janet doesn't seem too thrilled and is even less so when her male co-worker reveals that the editor wants to meet her about becoming the permanent author of " Dear Trudy " . Afterwards , Janet tells him she turned it down . As Laurie mulls with Doug at his apartment about what elective courses to take for her senior year ( she doesn't have to worry about college required ones since her summer school classes took care of that ) , a female friend of Doug's tells him of the Guatemala earthquake that a Peace Corps friend of his is at . Doug has suddenly turned somber . At the Deckers ' , Trina wakes to the smell of lobsters as Tom had crates of them delivered marking the annual Labor Day event . The smell is too much so some winds at the Millers ' where Doug is frustrated looking for reports on Guatemala on television and finding just game shows as Laurie gets held up calling a newspaper . Bro B . J . is also there looking at the lobsters and wanting to free them . Before that , he was at Samantha's with Ricky and Lisa waiting for Sam's and Lisa's moms . As we see the car that carries Sam's mother Gail and her sister Maggie , Gail sees her daughter's packed bags and yells at her sister as she leaves her in a huff . Maggie follows and explains how she doesn't want Sam to end up like they did and how good rehab was to her . During this fight , Sam and B . J . sit on the roof and hold hands . Later , Susan arrives at the bar seeking Bruce and finds Melinda as she confronts her about Bruce . Melinda reveals they didn't sleep together and that she and Bruce have a connection that Susan has lost lately . As Susan leaves , she finds Roger waiting looking for Janet . He tells Susan he's indeed accepted and wonders how Janet will handle the moving . Susan tells him she'll manage . Actually , Janet has by this time seen a new paper headline saying " Dear Janet " from her male co-worker Henry who tells her she " unturned " her new job down . Janet , thrilled at this , invites him for a drink . He says he has a date . With that female receptionist in accounting Janet asks . Henry replies with someone named Mike . Oh , Janet says , a little flustered but still happy for Henry . She later goes to Trina's , Trina points to the current September calendar and tells her it's 1976 , not 1953 , and that father doesn't always know best . So with that , Janet tells Roger that she doesn't want to move though her husband tells her that she may be the heart but he's still the head and their moving , case closed ! As the beach party begins , Tom reveals a fishbowl of keys meaning anyone who picks will go home with those keys ' owner . Bruce declines his since he and Susan are there just for the seafood . That gives Trina a little worry as she and Susan talk before she reveals her pregnancy and that she's going to terminate it without Tom knowing . Susan wonders with the Deckers open honesty why Trina is so secretive this time . As Roger and Janet briefly arrive , the male Thompson is congratulated by Bruce and Tom while Susan and her long-time best friend embrace missing growing old together . Before party's end , Bruce , as he watches keys taken one by one , holds Susan's hand but that hand abruptly pulls back resulting in a big confrontation outside of the crowd . Susan is upset over the lying while Bruce argues it was her idea when they committed to an open relationship . The wife then goes to the key bowl and randomly takes the owner of that key with her . When Laurie then goes to the house with mother alone there , Susan tells her daughter to come back soon after saying goodbye to Doug ( neither parent knows their daughter plans to go Guatemala with him ) . Laurie plans this with Doug even though we find that Doug's Peace Corp friend is fine and Doug just wants to help the victims . And Laurie is stubborn about going so Doug agrees saying he loves her . But when Laurie arrives , Doug is gone and his female friend tells her if she wants some consolation , she's on the second floor . Laurie then is handed a letter telling her to look under his pillow where his key is at so she'll always be allowed in his apartment . She cries in his bed . On the C . B . ' s B . J . and Ricky use as they talk to Samantha as she keeps moving , the frequencies become so muffled that static replaces her voice . Bruce meets Melinda at the bar and they kiss passionately . Susan , still home alone , gets a phone call . Silence before she asks , " Roger ? " Roger answers and tells her he couldn't get on the plane and will she come to this airport hotel . A knock on the door is answered and as The Eagles ' " Take It to the Limit " plays , we leave Susan and Roger eyeing each other as the scene fades . . . Wow , so much on this season finale of " Swingtown " . And that cast : Grant Show , Lana Parilla ( the Deckers ) , Jack Davenport , Molly Parker ( the Millers ) , and Mirimam Shor and Josh Hopkins ( the Thompsons ) . I also liked the kids though the one who played Laurie was partly irritating . Also enjoyed Liz Phair's theme song . Knowing creator Mike Kelley has a two-year contract with CBS , I like to think he'll finish this series but who knows ? So despite the uncertainly of the series ' fate , I'll just say until next time . . .
Respect Yourself : The Stax Records Story is one fascinating doc	Quick , what recording studio became known as " Soulsville , U . S . A " ? Stax Records . Founded by Caucasians Jim STewart and Estelle AXton , this Memphis-based company showcased some of the most soulful musicians on the planet and was colorblind concerning equal employment of black executives like Al Bell . Among the great songs chronicled here : " Last Night " - The Markeys , " Green Onion " - Booker T and the MGs , " Knock on Wood " - Eddie Floyd , " Soul Man " - Sam and Dave , original version of " Respect " - Oits Redding , " Shaft " - Issac Hayes , " Respect Yourself " - The Staple Singers , and many more from some of those artists . From the ' 60s through the ' 70s , Stax's rise and fall is chronicled by many of that label's participants I've mentioned with the bittersweet nostalgia that colors how unique that era truly was . And how fortunate we now are to have a museum and training institute built in Stax's honor . All in all , a very interesting documentary narrated by Samuel L . Jackson . Personal note : I was fascinated to learn that a cherished hit from my childhood , Rick Dees ' " Disco Duck " , was produced by Ms . Axton after the company she co-founded closed .
The Cunning Little Vixen was a wonderfully animated version of Leos Janacek's opera	Just watched this animated featurette of Leos Janacek's opera as directed by Geoff Dunbar on YouTube . It's mainly about a female fox who as a child gets taken from her mother to this man's house . Three months later as an adult , she escapes but not before killing all the chickens that her master and his wife had raised . Back in the forest , she meets a male fox and falls for him . After she gets pregnant , he agrees to marry her . . . I'll stop right there and say this was a pretty touching story of this lady fox and her adventures despite her brutal nature concerning other animals . Both the music and the voices chosen to verbalize the story are wonderfully played throughout . And Dunbar's animation provide some of the most beautiful scenery I've ever seen in an animated project . So with all that said , I highly recommend The Cunning Little Vixen .
John and Faith Hubley's Herb Albert and the Tijuana Brass Double Feature was a pretty humorously entertaining Oscar-winning animated short	Just watched this Oscar-winning John and Faith Hubley-written and produced animated short distributed by Paramount on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . The title's meaning is that two Herb Albert selections - " Spanish Flea " and " Tijuana Taxi " - are illustrated in animated form in their entirety . " Spanish Flea " has the title character annoying a donkey , chicken , a gangster and his girlfriend and other people at a hotel party . " Tijuana Taxi " has the driver trying to get his passengers to the plane on time . Both segments have compellingly humorous abstract line drawings set to the beat of the wonderful music . Don't want to say anymore except I highly recommend Herb Albert and the Tijuana Brass Double Feature .
Christmas Shopping Show episode of " The Jack Benny Program " is one hilarious holiday entry	Before I watched the Jack Benny holiday episode I'm reviewing here , I listened to a couple of episodes of his radio show that aired consecutive weeks on December 14 and 21 , 1941 . The first of those had Jack and Mary shopping for Christmas presents while Dennis and Rochester waited outside ( or maybe they shopped themselves ) . It's here that Frank Nelson appears as a floorwalker though he has yet to say , " Yeeessss ! " Anyway , the running gag concerns Jack's use of what a toy bird he wants to get Dennis sounds like . The following week has Jack planning his Christmas party which threatens to be ruined by his border , Mr . Billingsly who has a screw loose . Also , among the movie stars Jack invited was one Rodney Dangerfield who in this episode is a talked-about-only singing cowboy ! I wonder if the real one-who was 20 at the time and was then Jacob Cohen-ever heard this show and thought of it when he became a professional comedian . Both episodes were hit-and-miss concerning various gags but since the shows aired live , there were plenty of bloopers that Benny hilariously kept commenting on so they were a little less uneven . Now on to this TV episode . Jack and Rochester are shopping at a department store . Jack decides to get Don Wilson a $40 wallet . The person who's wrapping it up is a sales clerk played by Mel Blanc . Because of the various times that Jack keeps changing his mind about certain things , Blanc gets more upset every time he comes back . My favorite line of Blanc's concerning him is " The customer is always right . And this jerk is a customer ! " LOL ! I also loved the way Rochester keeps saying " No " when another clerk asks him what kind of person his boss is . There's also an amusing cameo of Richard Deacon-you know , Mel Cooley on " The Dick Van Dyke Show " - as another clerk talking to Dennis Day who sings " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " here . And then Don himself has a bizarre cameo with Santa Claus ! Oh , and Frank Nelson is back as the floorwalker . I think I've said enough so all I'll now say is : Watch this show if you're a die-hard Jack Benny fan !
A Shot in the Dark marked the introduction of Inspector Clouseau's regulars	With Steve Martin's Pink Panther 2 coming a few days away , I thought I'd look back at the previous entries in the movie series before I watched the latest one . I'm now on the second entry , A Shot in the Dark , that was originally a mystery play with different characters . For many , this was probably the true beginning of Inspector Jacques Clouseau's adventures since here is where we meet his regular supporting cast of characters of Commissioner Dreyfus ( Herbert Lom ) , his assistant Francois ( Andre Maranne ) , and house servant Kato-later Cato ( Burt Kwouk ) . Also Graham Stark , who's Clouseau's partner Hercule here , would subsequently play other roles later in the series . This time , Clouseau is defending maid Maria Gambrelli ( Elke Sommer ) against a murder charge . Among his suspects are George Sanders and Tracy Reed . This is also the first time Clouseau mispronounces some words to comic effect . With Peter Sellers having more scenes here than in The Pink Panther , he mines his physical shtick to most of what he's able to do with only one or two instances where a stuntman is needed . Gotta dig those scenes at the nudist colony where Clouseau his to hide his frontal part with a guitar ! Also liked seeing Dreyfus talking on the phone to a woman saying he loves her before being informed of his wife on the other line . " Tell her I'm out of town . " the commissioner exclaims . And Herbert Lom is really funny whenever his right eye blinks every time Clouseau is mentioned ! With no Pink Panther in the animated credits or his theme song playing , we get instead a short little man with mustache and trench coat with his own Henry Mancini theme whose presence causes such a stir with the preview audiences that DePatie-Freleng would start a second cartoon series called The Inspector not long after The Pink Panther animated series was already beginning . There's just so much that's hilarious here but I'll just recommend this to anyone who loves Sellers and his character or great movie slapstick comedy in particular . Next up , Inspector Clouseau . . .
Kids would be provocative viewing for the age group depicted here	When I watched the beginning of this movie with Telly ( Leo Fitzpatrick ) deflowering a young girl who we found out later is one of many virgins he has used since they are " clean " , I can now understand why many parents who were members of the MPAA at the time would want to rate this NC-17 . Not that I'd actually support their stance since I would still want any adult with teenagers to have the option of taking them to or renting for their viewing this disturbing depiction of city kids having sex and male and female teens talking about it openly segregated by gender , but it's understandable for any adult who doesn't want his or her kid exposed to such depravity among the young . During the 24 or so hours that the film takes place , another girl Telly had sex with the year before , Jennie ( Chloe Sevigny ) , tries to find him to tell him she is HIV positive . Meanwhile , Telly and Casper ( Justin Pierce ) steal Telly's mom's money , help some friends beat an angry black teen , buy and smoke some weed , and go to a party at a friends ' house where Telly brings his next conquest . During this time , Jennie rides a taxi whose driver tells her to " stay happy since life's too short " bringing an ironic point that lasts throughout the picture . Also appearing is Rosario Dawson who plays Jennie's friend Ruby who tested negative at the same clinic building as her friend . Many parents may not want their growing children to be exposed to such a provocative view of teen life , but if teens do watch Kids , they may think before doing many of the things depicted here . . .
The Dumpling Paradox is the first excellent episode of " The Big Bang Theory "	As Leonard , Sheldon , Howard Wolowitz , and Raj Koothrappali play the TV video game Halo , Penny barges in and asks if she could stay for awhile as her cousin from Nebraska , Christi ( Brooke D'Orsay ) , makes herself at home in her apartment there . Turns out she can't stand her as Christi has a slutty reputation , especially with members of Penny's immediate family ! Hearing this , Howard goes to Penny's apartment and charms the socks off Christi so much they spend the night there . So Penny not only defeats Sheldon on Halo , she begs to stay overnight at his and Leonard's place to Sheldon's consternation ! Next day , Christi agrees to live with Howard who lives with his mother ! This upsets Sheldon's sense of equality later at a Chinese restaurant since instead of splitting for four , they have to split for three . When the following week , Penny gets asked to be a fourth partner on Halo again , she declines having already dressed up for dancing . So they all go to Howard's house where they overhear arguments between his mom and Christi . Not wanting to stay for that , Howard goes back for another round of the game . . . This is the funniest episode yet of " The Big Band Theory " . I must also mention how nice to see James Hong again as the restaurant owner here after seeing him as the wheelchair crime boss on " Chuck " a few weeks earlier . As always , most of the best lines came from Sheldon though Simon Helberg also has his share . So glad this is doing so well on Monday night on CBS ! Now let's hope the writer's strike ends soon so we'll see new episodes through the end of the season and not just til January . . .
The Art of Skiing is one hilarious Goofy cartoon short	Just watched this very funny Disney Goofy cartoon short on YouTube . In this one-as the narrator instructs on the fine art of dressing and then going skiing ( which he insists is pronounced SHEE-ING ) - the Goof does the opposite in every hilarious way one could think of and more . Director Jack Kinney and his animators milk every bit of humor and slapstick comedy out of this premise and provide a new bit for the humanized dog-his yodel . That yodel was not thought of by the character's original voice-Pinto Colvig who was at Fleischer in Miami at the time-but by his temporary replacement , George Johnson ( other yodels were recorded by Hannes Schrolle ) . That particular bit proved so popular that it became a recurring thing in subsequent Goofy cartoons . So on that note , I highly recommend The Art of Skiiing .
Is It Always Right to Be Right ? is a relevant live-action / animated short even today	Just watched this Steve Bosustow Productions animated short on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . It was the last one to win an Oscar for " Short Subject , Cartoon " before the category was changed to " Short Subject , Animated " . Narrated by Orson Welles , Is It Always Right to Be Right ? addressed the polarizing views of the nation as they were divided over the Vietnam War , Nixon's election , and the world in general . Mixed with limited animation and live-action footage , this short is relevant even today with the divisiveness of the recent presidential election . So on that note , I highly recommend Is It Always Right to Be Right ?
" Interjuctions ! " is another educational , yet entertaining , animated musical short in the " Schoolhouse Rock ! " series	With lyrics by Lynn Aherne and Essra Mohawk providing the vocal , " Interjections ! " is another great short animated musical for the " Schoolhouse Rock ! " series-the three minute segment that aired after many ABC Saturday morning programs during the ' 70s and ' 80s . When a boy gets a shot in the butt ( yes , that part is depicted ) , he says , " Ouch ! " When a beautiful lady gets insulted by a man's constantly courting her , she says " Well ! " Then says , " Hey ! You're kinda cute . " And then there's a football game when the player quarterback threw the ball in the " other direction . " You hear , " Aw ! " " Darn ! " and then " Hooray ! I'm for the other team . " ( You can probably guess what humiliation the last suffers there ) Like the other " Schoolhouse Rock ! " cartoons , this one is worth showing kids today when trying to make education fun for them . And just try not to smile when the " Halleujah " girl says , " Darn , that's the end " after the song suddenly ends . . .
Water , Water Every Hare is another fine Bugs Bunny cartoon from Chuck Jones	Six years after Hair-Raising Hare , Chuck Jones and Michael Maltese revisit the Bugs-encounters-an-evil scientist ( with neon letters saying " EVIL SCIENTIST " on his castle ) - and his pet monster premise with Water , Water Every Hare . In this one , instead of Peter Lorre , the scientist looks like Boris Karloff with green skin in an inside joke to his Frankinstein's Monster role . And the fully red-haired giant monster is named Rudolph here instead of Gossamer . This time , Karloff wants a brain for his giant robot so Bugs conveniently becomes the target . Of course , Bugs escapes both the scientist and Go . . . I mean , Rudolph and when ether makes everything go slow , Bugs escapes and then sleeps as the water that flooded his hole-in-the-ground takes him back there and as he wakes back up , he says , " Must have been a nightmare . " What happens after that brought big laughs from me ! This short was just as funny , maybe even more so , as HRH and , once again , I loved when Bugs turned into a gossip-chattering nail filer shooting the breeze with the fully red-haired monster who doesn't realize how crafty the rabbit really is . Most definitely recommended .
The Bat Jar Conjecture is another excellent episode of " The Big Bang Theory "	As Leonard , Sheldon , Howard , and Raj prepare for the Physics Bowl with Penny moderating , Sheldon keeps giving the answers even when someone else buzzes first . To make his rejection from the team easier , Leonard gives Sheldon a Batman cookie jar as a gift . In picking a new team member , Leonard reluctantly asks his one-night-stand girl , Leslie Winkle ( a welcome return from Sara Gilbert ) , to join . She refuses until she hears Sheldon is on the other team . On the big day , with Leonard , Howard , Raj , and Leslie representing the Pumonary Movement Sound ( PMS ) and Sheldon and three middle-aged ethnic custodial staff representing the Atom Ants ( AA ) , the game is on with Dr . Gablehauser presiding . With Penny in the audience sleeping through the quiz show , PMS and Sheldon alone keep answering questions correctly making it a close game with one more challenge for either one to win . It involves a chart that neither PMS nor Sheldon can figure out . Fortunately , the Russian janitor in AA who was a professor in his home country figures its solution correctly . Unfortunately , Sheldon's ego is such that he can't accept it as the official answer since it wasn't his meaning he forfeits and gives victory to PMS , which Howard celebrates by taking off his shirt in front of several girls in the audience ! Later , Penny challenges Leonard and Sheldon with her own Pop Culture quiz about " The Brady Bunch " , Britney Spears , the two-time People Sexiest Man Alive , and Tweety Bird's catch phrase . Many of these are answered wrong with " Star Trek " - related things though Penny lets the last one , " I taught I taw a Romulan " , fly making Sheldon the champion in his home while Leonard still shows off his trophy . . . This episode was on fire with Sheldon's arrogance once again making him venerable especially with Leslie ( who once made him cry like a girl ) challenging him . Great lines with just about everyone here with Gilbert especially hilarious in her put-down of Sheldon . My favorite part was the arguing about the team name when Sheldon was still part of them . Another team name suggested but rejected was The Bengal Tigers by Raj who , in rejecting Sheldon's Atom Ants , says Tigers don't get fried by a magnifying glass ! Chuck Lorre , once again , you rock ! With this and " Two and a Half Men " still going strong , you're certainly the renaissance man of sitcoms this season .
The Coopeer-Hofstadter Polarization is a hilarious comeback for " The Big Bang Theory "	While Sheldon , Leonard , Howard , and Raj are being awestruck at the way they've used the internet to communicate with the world in order to turn on the lamp , stereo , and other electrical appliances , Leonard discovers a letter inviting him and Sheldon to share their scientific knowledge to an audience of fellow colleagues . Sheldon threw it away because he doesn't feel the need to share while Leonard decides to go and has Penny help with the wardrobe . Penny tries to patch things up with the two former buddies but inadvertently makes things worse . So with her , Howard , and Raj in the audience , Leonard presents his theories to a crowd of 25 before Sheldon reveals himself among them as they get into a knock-down fight in front of everyone . Suffice it to say , Howard sent his cell-phone version to YouTube which also accepted his same-place filming of him and a sleepy Penny with the caption of " his girlfriend " . We find out later that a couple of nerds in China have seen this and are also awestruck at their lamps turning on and off at will . . . With the strike finally over ( congrats to the writers for getting much of what they deserve ) , CBS presented an all-new Monday comedy lineup starting with this one in the middle of March . With this episode , " The Big Bang Theory " comes back funnier than ever ! Loved the references to Scanners whenever Sheldon tries to " blow " up Leonard's head . There's also a running joke told by Leonard that only Penny doesn't get . And how about those clothes Penny tries to discard or the model city of Kandor she discovers . All I can say is , bravo to CBS for renewing this very entertaining show for a second season . Oh , and loved Chuck Lorre's reference to producing two shows competing with a " deaf diva dancing her ( behind ) off " on his vanity card at the close !
The Grasshopper Experiment is another excellent episode of " The Big Bang Theory "	In Sheldon and Leonard's apartment , Raj Koothrappali introduces his parents on his computer screen to them and Howard Wolowitz . The parents tell their son about a grown Indian woman Raj knew previously as a fat child coming over for an arraigned marriage . Her name is Lalita ( Sarayu Rao ) . Penny comes over and asks for help in mixing drinks to prepare for her new bar tending job . In her apartment , Sheldon keeps ordering a drink with an unusual name that basically is Diet Coke while Raj , having drank her Grasshopper and had previously just whispered to his friends in order to communicate with any woman , opens up to Penny about his insecurity in meeting his future bride . When he meets Lalita later at Penny's bar , he does nothing but inadvertently insult her . Sheldon , however , when he meets her , charms her when he tells her she's the spitting image of a princess of an Indian folk tale his mother read from a book when her son as a child was often sick . Latita leaves with Sheldon which upsets a now jealous Raj . The next day , Raj tries to talk on computer screen to his upset parents alone while Sheldon reveals to Leonard that nothing romantic happened between him and Lalita . Later at the bar , Sheldon performs a " Fidler on the Roof " number on keyboard thanks to some alcohol Penny put in his Diet Coke . . . Another very funny episode of " The Big Bang Theory " that served as a nice showcase for Koothrappali and his Indian family and upbringing . Great performances from everyone here with special mention going to Ms . Rao for her great sense of humor . Now if only the writer's strike would end so this series could bloom to its full potential for the rest of the season . . .
Dim Sum : A Little Bit of Heart is Wayne Wang's slice of life of Chinese widow and her American-raised grown daughter	Dim Sum : A Little Bit of Heart is basically the touching story of a Chinese immigrant widow who becomes sad because she's told by a fortune teller that she would soon die , so she constantly reminds her last single daughter to marry and resolves to visit her homeland one last time . Kim Chew is the widow and her real-life daughter Laureen is the one who feels pressured to tie the knot . They both give good , wonderfully nuanced performances along with Victor Wong as the uncle who wants to marry Kim . Look for Amy Hill , who I remember as the Grandma in " All-American Girl " , as one of the other married daughters and Joan Chen as one of the young mah-jong players . Director Wayne Wang provides exquisite Chinese-American atmosphere in the Chinatown setting of California . Plenty of subtle humorous touches throughout . Nothing more to say except if you want to experience the Chinese-American way of life on film , Dim Sum is as good a place to start as any .
Begone Dull Care showcases Oscar Peterson jazz over images by Norman McLaren and Evelyn Lambart	With the recent death of jazz great Oscar Peterson , Amid at Cartoon Brew showed his tribute by linking from YouTube two animated shorts scored by him . One was directed by John Hubley . This one , Begone Dull Care , was done by Norman McLaren and Evelyn Lambart with the abstract paint done directly on film . Peterson provides three jazz pieces with the second one just played to white lines on black background and the other two mixed with that and various other colors , mostly red . Wonderful Jackson Pollock-like images that might have inspired many a trip during the ' 60s ! What a great tribute to a recently departed music genius from Canada .
It's the Great Pumpkin , Charlie Brown is still wonderful after all these years	Today , October 27 , 2006 , ABC showed It's the Great Pumpkin , Charlie Brown , for its 40th anniversary . After all these years , Linus still believes in the Great Pumpkin rising up from the pumpkin patch to give presents to all the boys and girls , Snoopy dresses as a WWI flying ace to battle the Red Baron , Charlie Brown cuts too many holes in his sheet and gets nothing but rocks from trick-or-treating , Lucy dresses as a witch , and Vince Guaraldi plays the most wonderful music ever made for an animated cartoon . This is still one of the best cartoons made from Charles M . Schulz's Peanuts comic strip and one of the best holiday specials ever ! Worth seeing by yourself or your whole family over and over again . God bless you , Mr . Schulz , wherever you are .
A Pest in the House is another hilarious Daffy Duck cartoon	With this cartoon the second consecutive Daffy Duck one I've seen in which he's in his prime , I've now completely recovered from the mediocre one he made with Speedy in the ' 60s I watched before them . He's a bellhop who unwittingly ( or maybe not ) disturbs a man who just wants quiet while he sleeps but keeps hitting Elmer the manager as a result of the duck's shenanigans ! And this guy's room number is 666 ! LOL ! Hilarious from beginning to end , this Chuck Jones entry just kept me guffawing in due time . I especially loved hearing Mel Blanc's singing as both Daffy and a drunk in the next room when they're both warbling ! A Pest in the House is well worth the time for anyone who loves classic Looney Tunes . P . S . How surreal was it to hear Arthur Q . Bryan as both Elmer and that man who threatens to " bust you right in the nose ! " ?
The Old Mill Pond is excellent tribute to African-American entertainers of the ' 30s	The Old Mill Pond is more of a tribute to the African-American entertainers of the ' 30s than any denigration of the entire race ( Stepin Fetchit caricature notwithstanding ) . Besides who I just mentioned , there's also frog or fish versions of Cab Calloway , Fats Waller , Joesphine Baker , Bill " Bojangles " Robinson , and Louis Armstrong . This Happy Harmonies cartoon from Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising is very entertaining musically with perfect characterizations all around . They all sound so much like the real thing that half of me thinks they could possibly be . If not , they're certainly very flattering impersonations . Even the lazy , shiftless Fetchit characterization gets an exciting workout here when he gets chased by a tiger as " Hold That Tiger " plays on the score . Highly recommended for fans of ' 30s animation and jazz music .
Mask-A-Raid is another bizarre early Betty Boop cartoon that comes highly recommended	Just discovered this early Betty Boop cartoon on YouTube courtesy of one of various cartoon blogs I've been looking up on . The author of this particular blog thinks the singing voice and mannerisms of Bimbo near the end sound a lot like Louis Prima and I have to heartily agree . This short being made pre-Code , there are lots of stuff that it wouldn't get away with after 1934 like Boop's skirt going up revealing her panty and someone helping skirt stay down with the help of a bobby pin . Lots of bizarre things involving some vintage songs happen that are hard to describe so all I can say is Mask-A-Raid is highly recommended for any fan of Max Fleischer especially during this period .
Senor Macho Solo is another excellently funny episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , Jenna auditions to be in the Janis Joplin movie Jack is producing , Tracy and Jack gets Tracy's wife Angie to sign a " post-nup " but when Angie says she'll be with her husband till he dies , they make out to everyone's consternation , Liz gets a date with a U . N . representative ( Peter Dinklage ) named Stewart when she touches his hair mistaking him for a child ( Stewart is a " little person " who doesn't know why Liz did what she did ) , and Jack falls for his mother's caretaker , a Puerto Rican named Elisa ( Salma Hayak ) . . . This was another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock " . Two of my favorite lines were when Kenneth the page asked Stewart , " How does it feel to live under the bridge ? " which gets Liz ' dander up until Stewart explains he lives in an apartment called " Under the Bridge " and when Tracy takes Jack's cell to find about Jack's testicle lump , Tracy says , " It's positive ! " to Jack's chagrin before explaining that it's positive news . And Liz ' constant " foot-in-mouth " mistakes concerning Stewart's size makes her failure to have a relationship with him endearingly pathetic . And how about Elisa telling her relatives at a park picnic about Jack's lump in her language ! There's lots more I'm not telling so I'll just say , " 30 Rock " is still one of the best comedies on television this season !
Christmas Special is a most excellent holiday episode of " 30 Rock "	Liz decides to become a secret Santa because her family doesn't want her , Jack makes everyone do a Christmas special because he doesn't want to be with his mother who he accidentally ran over with his car , and that mother , Colleen , is proving to be such a nuisance to her son . . . As in the last episode , someone says he / she isn't going to die . In " Reunion " , it was CEO Don Guiess , here it's Colleen . The back and forth between Alec Baldwin and welcomed back guest star Elaine Stritch are priceless . Seeing Dotcom and Grizz have more scenes were also pleasurable as they were last episode as well . And what a treat to not only see Jane Krakowski once again display her singing talents but Ms . Stritch as well . All I want to say now is , Merry Christmas to the cast and crew of " 30 Rock " . May the new year bring even more fans to this highly excellent comedy series !
A hilarious Reunion happened on this episode of " 30 Rock "	Liz reluctantly goes to her high school reunion with Jack along with her pretending to be former student Larry who apparently was very popular . It seems Liz was actually a " mean girl " ( nice reference to Ms . Fey's movie from a few years ago ) whom many former classmates ( including one who's gay ) didn't like . Meanwhille , Tracy and Jenna try to stop Kenneth from being the center of attention in the elevator rides since that's THEIR jobs . Oh , and the reason Jack pretends to be someone else at Liz ' reunion is because Don Guiess , having woke from his coma , is staying as network CEO and isn't planning to die soon . . . Another very hilarious episode of the sublime " 30 Rock " series what with moments from Don's mentally challenged daughter Kathy and a revelation from a former girlfriend of Larry's , not to mention the almost " Carrie " moment that Liz narrowly missed . Oh , and if that " former girlfriend " looks familiar , it's Janel Moloney , formerly Donna on " The West Wing " . All right , now I'm going review the Christmas episode of " 30 Rock " . . .
Believe in the Stars is another very funny episode of " 30 Rock "	Jenna and Tracy do a " Freaky Friday " , Jack fakes Synchronized Running during the Summer Olympics , Liz meets " Oprah " on an airplane , Kenneth has a crisis of conscience . . . . Lots of funny stuff are once again happening on " 30 Rock " what with Jenna miffed not getting compensated for her voice work on Tracy's porn video game so they turn it into a woman-vs . - black discrimination thing as they try to literally try each other's skin ( especially hilarious hearing Tracy telling how they wouldn't put some on " my butt " ) . And seeing Liz in a Princess Leia outfit with the cinnabun hair or confession to " Oprah " about her fears on an airplane in a stream-of-conscious mode is what makes Tina Fey such a comedic genius ! And seeing Kenneth actually being noble when he thinks the elevator is actually losing air . Jack McBrayer can do no wrong as far as I'm concerned ! So for that , I recommend this episode of " 30 Rock " .
St . Valentine's Day was another hilarious episode of " 30 Rock "	What a hilarious episode of " 30 Rock " this one was especially considering the Vanentines Day theme ! Jack wants to take Elisa to his favorite dessert restaurant but has to go to a Catholic church with her first . Liz has a disastrous first date with her doctor neighbor which isn't helped when he also has to look out for his troubled teenage daughter and his mother is taking a turn for the worse . And , in a nod to Cyrano , Tracy pretends to be Kenneth when a blind woman Kenneth's smitten with proves too much for the page to communicate with verbally . I'll stop right there and just say how once again the barbs run fast and furious that I just couldn't stop laughing ! My favorite line was Liz ' when she said about Elisa , " If I had those knockers , I'd be thanking God , too ! " ( By the way , Tina's cleavage got a nice show-off here too ! ) Oh , and if the blind woman looked familiar , you've probably seen Forgetting Sarah Marshall since in that one , Jack McBrayer was on a honeymoon with the same woman that he's dating here : Maria Thayer . Once again , you rock , " 30 Rock " !
Very glad to have finally seen Let It Be after so many missed opportunities . . .	Having never seen any VHS copies of this last Beatles movie and since it will probably be a very long time before it gets on DVD , I was stoked when I found out YouTube had this uploaded since the later part of summer 2007 and it was still there . All the things director Michael Lindsay-Hogg filmed were fascinating to me especially when Ringo played some piano with Paul or when John and Yoko danced or when Heather-a young pre-teen who's Paul's future wife Linda's daughter from a previous marriage-hung around the Apple Studios . ( Oh , and while I did know of George's argument with Paul over George's guitar playing from an outtake that was used in " The Beatles ' Anthology " , only Paul's explanation to him about that is in here . ) Then there's organ pianist Billy Preston who might have officially become the fifth Beatle had the group not split up some time after this film . The real exciting part was the legendary rooftop concert that caused some traffic and had Paul ad libbing some lines about getting arrested at the end of " Get Back " ! What a way to end the film and loved hearing mostly positive comments from the crowd below . So on that note , Let It Be is very essential viewing for all Beatles fans or just any that loves good music performed live on film .
The Funcooker is another hilariously great episode of " 30 Rock "	In this episode , both Liz and Jack have a bad day . Liz when she has to go to jury duty leaving no one in charge of her show , Jack when he has trouble thinking of a non-offensive name ( in any language ) for a little microwave product he's trying to sell . Oh , and Jenna and Tracy incur the wrath of a St . Patrick's Day organizer when Jenna falls asleep-because of her taking on both her show and a movie-and Tracy calls her an obscene name during the parade's festivities as the event is airing which now has him taking a huge fine from the FCC as well . Oh , and wait till you find out what the episode's title refers to . . . The title part is definitely the funniest part of this episode . And welcome back Chris Parnell as Dr . Spaceman who gives Jenna a solution that has her acting more weird than ever ! And after watching the network version , I went to Hulu to find out what dirty words Liz and Tracy said that had to be bleeped on NBC . Unfortunately , Hulu had them bleeped as well . As Liz would say , Blurg ! Oh well , at least Liz thinks her worst day became her best when she found out the little microwave works in the shower . . .
" A Noun Is a Person , Place or Thing " is another excellent entry in the " Schoolhouse Rock ! " series	Written and sung by Lynn Aherns , the ditty " A Noun Is a Person , Place or Thing " is an excellent composition with accompanying animation of a girl demonstrating her adventures via the four verses in a perfect amalgamation of sounds and images . Once again , " Schoolhouse Rock " has presented an entertaining way to make education fun for children in between the cartoons ABC presented on Saturday mornings during the ' 70s . Though perhaps a little dated with mentions of The Beatles , The Monkees , Chubby Checker , and that the drugstore record machine is only ten cents , " A Noun Is a Person , Place or Thing " still entertains overall with it's cheerful way of telling us how important it is to learn what nouns are and their usefulness it is to everyday language . So this musical animated short gets another 10 from me . Guess I'll review another one now that I just rediscovered from YouTube . . .
My Financial Career is another excellent animated short from the National Film Board of Canada	Just watched on the National Film Board of Canada site , this Oscar-nominated animated short by Gerald Potterton . It's a highly amusing tale of a young man's attempt to deposit some money at a bank for the very first time . The narration and its account of the reactions of many of the bank people provides much of the deadpan quality of humor that made me laugh in small bursts that became a little bigger with each absurdity that occurs . Much of that amusement is also provided by the child-like drawings . If you love animation and its many forms , Gerald Potterton's My Financial Career is definitely one I'd recommend . I discovered this one when Warren Leonhardt linked this from the NFBC site .
Swingus Interruptus is an excellent episode of " Swingtown " with some much needed humor added	Bruce confesses his kissing Melinda twice to wife Susan . While Susan wishes it hadn't happened , she doesn't yell at him like he wishes she would . In fact , since Brad-who's conducting interviews on open marriages for a book-and Sylvia have invited them to the Pendulum Club-which is basically an orgy place , Susan wants Bruce to go with them for the night . Trina tries to get back on Janet's good side by making some cupcakes . They share a laugh over the fact they're sticking on the pans . Later when Janet comes back to give some cooking tips to Trina , she sees Susan and almost gets jealous again before they all agree to go the the sex club together even though Trina and Tom's marriage is closed for now . While all this is going on , Laurie and Doug go her parents ' home to watch Ford get the Republican nomination and B . J . and Samantha go to B . J . ' s friend's house to play some Pong and later some Spin the Bottle which results in B . J . ' s friend and Samantha in the closet . Sam doesn't want to kiss this friend and neither does he but tries to wedge her and B . J . ' s friendship by saying how attracted to strays B . J . is . Then he forces a kiss on her forcing Sam to slap him and storming out with B . J . following . Back at the club , as Bruce is kept from going to the private orgy room by himself , Roger goes out followed by Janet in a state of daze . Susan then approaches her husband and says that Brad and Sylvia have agreed to go to their house . As they leave , Tom and Trina then offer to take Roger and Janet home but they decide to take their car . As Laurie and Doug are getting it on the couch , they're forced to hide in the liquor closet as her parents and Sylvia and Brad arrive . As the swinging couples smoke pot and prepare to swap partners-though Brad actually wants to make omelet during this time-a flabbergasted Laurie tries not to scream so she and Doug try to sneak out but they get caught as Brad , Sylvia , and Doug now leave with Bruce and Susan deciding to wait until morning to punish their daughter . Meanwhile as the Pendulum club people come to the Deckers , Roger and Janet arrive to bring a dress Janet wore back to Trina . As Roger is getting lap danced by a lady he met at the club , Trina and Janet come to an understanding with each other . Janet almost loses it when she sees what's happening to her husband and goes by herself before Tom comes to her , kisses her ( ! ) , and tells her she's a very beautiful woman and she shouldn't forget it . So Janet confronts Roger and tells he can stay while she leaves . Roger decides to go with his wife . As the episode starts to end , we see B . J . still chasing Sam to her home as she tells him she's not a stray . B . J . then kisses her which she doesn't slap him for . It's at this time that we see the guests of B . J . ' s parents ' home leave with much of the arguing between Sis and Mom and Dad being overheard by him and Sam . Sam-who has an alcoholic mother to deal with-sympathetically puts her hand on his pants leg in a reassuring mode . And with only the Lap-Dance Girl left , Tom and Trina put a blanket over her as they call it a night . . . Despite the reservations I've had with the Doug / Laurie pairing , their having to deal with the girl's parents and this other couple provided some needed laughs for the show . And it was very nice to finally see Sam and B . J . have a tender moment to themselves . And I hope the truce that Janet and Trina shared here stays put this time . And if Bruce is upset at his daughter , what's going to happen once he finds out about Susan and Roger ? What about Janet ? Well , I guess we'll find out tomorrow night ( unless many of you reading this are going to watch the Opening Ceremonies of the Chinese Olympics instead ) , so on that note until next time . . .
Puzzlerama was another excellent episode of " Swingtown "	We begin with Susan in the Deckers ' pool . Tom is on one side and Trina , the other as they take turns caressing her . Roger ( ! ) then jumps in . As this happens , both Bruce and Janet-fully clothed , rise up in the water and make negative judgments on their spouses . As Susan calls her husband's name , she wakes up from her dream as Bruce tells her to go back to sleep as he leaves early for work . At the real Decker house , Tom and Trina prepare for their annual Puzzlerama game which Tom explains as a " truth-or-dare on a roller-coaster " involving neighborhood secrets to Susan and Bruce as they have breakfast with the kids . Before this sequence , B . J . - back from camp-is warmly greeted by Samantha who receives a " wish bag " from him . Sister Laurie watches and asks her brother if Sam wants to come in , which Sam politely declines . Laurie herself is on her way to help in the Carter / Mondale presidential campaign by helping Doug get signatures . This turns into a bet for who gets the most of them to do as the winner wishes for the rest of the night . Before we get back to the Puzzlerama game , we find Janet washing clothes as she finds swimming trunks that obviously isn't Roger's ( it's the one Tom gave him in the last episode during the pool party ) . Thinking they're Bruce's from the cabin episode , she gives them to Susan who later hides them in her drawer which is where Trina finds them when she puts the question discs there as well for her game . At the Decker party , Susan gives those trunks back as Trina gives back Susan's earring she misplaced from the Fourth of July party . Susan also tells her that Janet doesn't know about Roger's presence at the pool party as those two arrive and Trina takes the trunks off Susan's hands . Also arriving is Bruce's coworkers Moreno and Melinda and Gail-Sam's mother-who gooses Moreno as they decide to fool around . The rest participate as each receives a drink with a certain colored dot at the bottom with two with the same color picking the pairs . Susan is with Roger , Janet with Tom-who's told by his wife to keep an eye on her , and Bruce with Melinda though it was originally supposed to Gail who switched drinks to be with Moreno . Both Janet and Tom and Susan and Roger bump into Laurie and Doug in front of the grocery store where the Carter campaign takes place . Laurie awkwardly introduces her former teacher to her mom who seems to have figured out their relationship especially after her daughter mentions " similar interests " concerning Doug . Meanwhile , Bruce and Melinda mention about their previous night of which Melinda mentions he was the " perfect gentleman " which means nothing scandalous happened . Then they go to an adult newsstand for more of those discs hidden there where Melinda makes a pass at Bruce and he reciprocates ! Tom sees them and keeps Janet from finding out . He later warns Bruce about " dipping in the company ink " as Trina comes by . As Bruce leaves , Trina asks her husband about what happened as Tom mentions it possibly being revealed in next years party . During this time , Samantha is watching for people to give the party discs to in order to keep them from going inside finding out about her mom and Moreneo . B . J . stays with her to keep company . Just as things seem to end in a three-way-tie , Janet takes one more paper that reveals Tom's kimono gift to his wife after his affair . As Janet takes the discs from that gift , she knocks the box with Trina's pictures and finds the one with Roger in those trunks which she angrily confronts Trina with calling her a slut . After Susan and Roger tell the truth , Janet storms out . Roger later tells his wife how she always wants to be perfect and that's why he couldn't tell her everything . When Susan explains to Bruce the reason she didn't tell him about Roger , she says she respected his quest for secrecy . She promises her husband no more secrets though Bruce doesn't tell his despite also promising . Oh , and since Laurie won the petition drive , she goes to Doug's apartment and has her way with him . All that's left to say is with the party over , Tom and Trina are relieved they are still together as we fade on the hanging question mark in the house . . . Well , this was a very intriguing episode with the various couplings or not happening though my dread of Laurie and her former teacher has now reached the danger zone . Now all that's left is wondering what the aftermath is going to be though I hope Laurie doesn't get pregnant ( mabye someone will reveal she was on the pill or he had protection ) . The other teen relationship between B . J . and Samantha is what intrigues me and I hope gets more play as the weeks go on . Wow , Bruce is becoming more of a jerk here with his treatment of Melinda even if she's becoming a notorious flirt ! Do love the way she keeps smiling when Bruce again reminds her how he's married . Wonder how long that will last ? Tom's " dipping in the company ink " line no doubt is a reminder of why he's doing those Tokyo flights that's causing some strain with his wife . But they seem to be holding it together for now . And with Janet mad at both her husband and best friend Susan , how is their friendship going to hold up and with Bruce still being distant with his wife , how long will Susan and Roger succumb to temptation ? All intriguing questions and despite the Laurie / Doug storyline , Puzzlerama was an excellent episode of " Swingtown " that explored many of them . So on that note , until next time . . .
Babel is one of the most challenging films of the year	First off , I'd like to say that both Rinko Kikuchi and Adriana Barraza deserved their Oscar nominations for their roles in Babel this year . And Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett deserve thanks for lending their star power to this picture . Babel is a mostly compelling film about how four different stories taking place in the countries of Mexico , America , Morocco , and Japan are loosely connected . Some of the most interesting sequences concern a Mexican wedding that a nanny ( Barraza ) from that country takes her American charges ( one of whom is Dakota Fanning's sister , Elle ) to , and a Japanese deaf-mute teen's ( Kikuchi ) attempted seduction of the police detective when he arrives at her apartment . This movie can be frustrating to anyone who wants a conventional storyline but it mostly pays off at the end . It's certainly one of the most challenging movies I've seen this year .
Lomax the Songhunter is an excellent documentary	For years , I've heard about Alan Lomax and his folk recordings for the Library of Congress but it wasn't until I saw this documentary on the PBS series P . O . V . that I even had an inkling of what he did . This film is as good a start as any to learn about this important researcher and his preservation efforts among various folk artists around the world . We go to Italy , Spain , and , Ireland to hear various work songs and we see Lomax himself sing some of his favorites . He is shown in various times in his life up to just before he died in 2002 when he could hardly speak . And Pete Seeger recounts of his own discovery by Lomax . So if you love to hear unique music of various cultures , I suggest you definitely seek this one out .
Walt Disney's The Skeleton Dance deserves its scary classic status	Just watched this classic Walt Disney Silly Symphony ( the first ) on the Saturday Morning Blog as linked from YouTube . This was a mostly funny and atmospheric cartoon that must have really made an impact on the movie industry since after this there were a lot of cartoons that involved things that bump in the night . Animated by Ub Iwerks with music by Carl Stalling , The Skeleton Dance has four of those creatures having fun scaring fur out of cats and an owl before swaying to and fro , tap dancing simultaneously , and one playing the other like a xylophone . The most shocking part for me was when another played a cat's tail like a violin ! Excellent stuff all around so if you're in a Halloween mood , I definitely recommend The Skeleton Dance .
Awful Orphan is a really funny Porky Pig-Charlie Dog cartoon	This is one of several cartoons starring Porky Pig and directed by Chuck Jones that also stars Charlie Dog who is always trying to get Porky to accept him as a pet with the pig always refusing . Love hearing Mel Blanc give Porky a really evil laugh whenever he tries to get rid of Charlie . Also love many of the disguises of Charlie and one of Porky . But Charlie always comes back , more obnoxious than ever ! Plenty of hilarious visual gags and the turnaround at the end was really funny . Writer Michael Maltese really outdid himself this time . This is on disc 3 of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 . Well worth seeing for animation fans especially the Warner Bros . kind .
Rainbow Dance is another entertaining experimental Len Lye short	Ranbow Dance is another great abstraction animated short by Len Lye . This time there's a silhouette of Rupert Doone dancing in front of a rainbow in the beginning . Doone plays tennis later on in the short . All this is combined in a collage of images of color and various money bills , coins , and press clippings . At the end is an announcement : " The Post Office Savings Bank puts a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for you . No deposit too small for the Post Office Savings Bank . " The music is by Walter Leigh . Having seen most of these shorts on YouTube , I just can't get enough of these experimental shorts ! I can't believe I stayed up all night just to see anything by Len Lye , who I haven't heard of until today when there was an item in the Cartoon Brew . Maybe , I'll look another Lye short up . . .
Carol Burnett : A Woman of Character is another great episode of " American Masters "	A few weeks ago , I watched this wonderful documentary about the life and career of one the most talented comediennes ever : Carol Burnett . From her early life growing up with her grandma watching various movies to her early live performances on " The Garry Moore Show " and Broadway to her defining moments on her 11-year classic run of her own variety program " The Carol Burnett Show " , Ms . Burnett shows us how consistently entertaining she has been over four decades . We also see clips of " Once Upon a Mattress " her breakthrough Broadway triumph as first taped in black-and-white by CBS in the early ' 60s . Among the interviewees besides Carol are , of course , many of her show's regulars : Harvey Korman , Lyle Waggoner , Vicki Lawrence , and Tim Conway . Also interviewed : costume designer Bob Mackie , Tracy Ullman-who played Carol's role in the recent version of " Once Upon a Mattress " with Ms . Burnett playing the mean queen , Richard Kind-who appeared on a couple of failed attempts at reviving Carol's variety show , Garry Shandling-who had Burnett as a guest on " The Larry Sanders Show " , old friend Florence Henderson , Carl Reiner-a frequent guest on Carol's show , and many others I can't remember right now . One of the most valuable of clips here is one from " The Garry Moore Show " when Ms . Burnett first did a fall on live television : It was Neil Simon sketch with Carol as Jill who follows Jack after he falls out of a hospital window . After Carol did her fall on a mattress , she revealed to us she gasped a sign of relief which revealed to everyone within earshot she had never done this thing before contrary to what she told the producers . We then see her take several falls afterward in quick clips which shows how expert she became on this sort of thing . Also shown are clips of her movies like Pete ' n ' Tillie and Annie . For Carol fans , I highly recommended this to them as well as anyone curious about this great lady's versatility and attitude as well as entertainment ability !
Soundies : A Musical History is highly recommend for film and music fans	Singer Michael Feinstein hosts this special about Soundies , three-minute film shorts of the popular songs during the ' 40s that were played in video jukeboxes called the Panorams . We start with what is called the best of the best : Duke Ellington's " Hot Chocolate " which has various gymnastic-style dances of the Jitterbug . Formed by the Mills Publishing Company in 1940 , these music videos of the day takes us through the various big band sounds of Jimmy Dorsey , Fats Waller , Louis Armstrong , Gene Krupa , and The King Cole Trio featuring Nat King Cole . Since World War II began soon after , many of the films also showcase the patriotic nature of many of the tunes like " You're a Lucky Fellow , Mr . Smith " . We also see the earliest film debuts of Doris Day , Yvonne De Carlo , Walter Liberace ( best known by only his last name ) , Mel Blanc ( hilarious as a drunk in a Spike Jones Soundie ) , Dorothy Dandridge ( sexy in a jungle outfit ) , and Cyd Charisse . Wonderful recollections by Kay Starr and Les Paul along with commentary by Wynton Marsalis , Leonard Maltin , Hugh Hefner , and Joe Franklin add to the nostalgic flavor of the whole enterprise . Negative stereotyping involving African-American musicians of the day are also addressed here . Worth seeking out on DVD or PBS for anyone with an interest in musical film history .
Vau-Vau is one of a few animated shorts I've seen from Zagreb Films	Just discovered on Cartoon Brew linked to YouTube this unique animated short from a company called Zagreb Films . In Vau-Vau , a dog in the forest scares many small creatures like a bird , a snail , and a ball . Then he encounters a cat who tries to scare the dog back . Then they both go at it with smaller versions of themselves . . . Wholly done by one artist , Boris Kolar , Vau-Vau seems to have been decorated by a magic marker with black representing the dog and purple the cat . Wonderful orchestral music throughout especially when the flute is showcased . Anyone interested in unique animation forms from other countries should give this and others from Zagreb Films a chance . I'm now going to watch a couple more from Cartoon Brew . . .
Fallout is excellent end-of-the-year episode of Heroes	Peter is in the interrogation room questioned by FBI agent Audrey and mind-reading cop Matt . When Matt tries to read Peter's head , Peter ends up reading Matt's ending with a colliding block effect . Peter mentions that Claire , not the dead Jackie , was who Syler was after so Matt and Audrey leave to get her as Peter is left behind . Jessica hit Niki's ex-husband D . L . but the bullets went through him though Jess doesn't seem to know this yet ( she must have memory loss from when D . L put his hand through her previously ) . The next morning , D . L . and son Macah go to a cabin to settle down just before Niki comes nearby and sees her Jessica reflection on a puddle with Jessica saying how stronger she is for anyone , especially Niki , to take her on . Jess must have figured out by this time that D . L . was still alive and takes her gun and hides it as Micah finds her , thinking it's his mom , and takes her back to the cabin . As Micah calls to his dad , D . L . kicks the door open and attempts to knock out Jessica . Sometime after kicking down Micah , Niki comes back and turns herself in the the police . Back to the interrogation room , Claire is questioned with her father witnessing stopping short of revealing her powers since her dad doesn't want anyone else to know . Claire later stops by Peter's cell to tell him what a hero he is to her while her dad confronts Syler and calls him by his real name of Gabriel Gray . He later gets orders from above to keep Syler alive though Eden , with her powers of persuasion , mentions being able to make Syler kill himself without anyone being the wiser . Eden then visits Issac and gives him a cell phone and a card . Issac calls the number on the card and gets Hiro , still at the diner in Texas . They agree to meet at a bus station . At a nearby hotel room , Issac tries to paint without drugs for the first time as Hiro and Ando watch . The result is a scene of Hiro with a sword confronting a dinosaur . Hiro looks at that and says , " I gotta get me a sword . " Eden calls Mohinder in New York and confesses she lied to him , promising to tell him everything after she takes care of some business . She goes to Syler's cell and attempts to kill him , but he manages to break the glass between them and somehow quickly point the gun back at her instantly killing her . Before going home , Claire is assured by her dad that he'll take care to explain to her little brother about knowing her powers and is ordered to have the tapes Zack recorded of her to be destroyed . She does just that when Zack brings them , then goes to her brother who has no memory of the incident . Neither does Zack later on and he's now wondering why Claire is speaking to him since she's ignored him since sixth grade . Claire , now feeling alone , calls her dad who reassures her everything's all right . Just then his Haitian assistant , who was always silent previously , surprises Claire and reveals he's wiped certain memories of everyone she's been close to and was going to do the same to her but reneges this time . He only asks her , " Can you keep a secret ? " During this whole time , Peter has been having dreams or visions of his brother Nathan , Syler , and now of being back in New York with all the other heroes except his brother running away from him as he begins to explode . . . But wait , now he's back in present time feeling normal with Nathan embracing him and some of the others coming back . . . Wow , what a way to end the year before the month-long hiatus ! So Eden's now dead . Although I mentioned that Syler pointed the gun back at her , I now wonder did Eden purposely turn the gun around to keep him from getting her persuasion powers or did Syler manage to get some of Eden's powers before or after killing her ? When Matt shook hands with Claire's dad , he didn't recognize him but on a later stakeout he did recognize his Haitian assistant with him . So how long before he figures out that his mind's been wiped by the Haitian man ? And was Peter actually about to cause the bomb explosion or did he get close to that man who actually makes things burn sometime before ? I can't wait to find out all these things and more come January 22 , 2007 !
Trade Tattoo is Len Lye's most entertaining work	Trade Tattoo is one of Len Lye's most entertaining experimental shorts . Placed against documentary footage and silhouettes of various trains and workers quickly mailing various packages , it's a kaleidescope of images with various typed-words printed on screen like : " The rhythm of trade is maintained by the mails " over and over again . With music by the Lecuona Band , you can't help but be overwhelmed by all the collage of images that Lye bombards you with . Having been intrigued by Cartoon Brew's item of Lye's The Peanut Vendor on YouTube , I had to see the rest of his work just to find how innovative he really was . I'm very glad I did and I highly recommend to anyone who loves the experimental to seek all of Lye's work out !
The Bourne Ultimatum is the best in series so far	Matt Damon and Paul Greengrass do it again ! They provide great action while presenting a logical story and beautiful expository dialogue to help explain most of what is going on . Kudos also to returning cast members Joan Allen and , especially , Julia Stiles , who has more to do here and a better reason for her character to matter than she did in the first two . The relationship between her and Damon's character before his changed identity is a little ambiguous but very interesting . David Strathairn and Albert Finney also shine through here in their provocative roles . All in all , The Bourne Ultimatum is the best in the movie series so far !
Leisure is a wonderful Australian animated short that won the Oscar	This most deservedly Oscar-winning animated short from Australia in 1976 starts with a line drawing on white background of a man relaxing by him self . Then we see him working various jobs to achieve his leisure time . Then we go through a history of mixing work and leisure through photographs , paintings , illustrations , and other animated depictions in a collage of images all accompanied by a narrator and some flute and other music from the ' 70s . A very unique short that deserved its recognition , Leisure seems a wonderful ' 70s tribute to more innovative art forms of that adventurous decade . If you have Google Video and love animation , I definitely suggest you seek it out there .
Heroes : Collision moves the series along briskly	One thing I forgot to mention from the last episode , Niki the stripper took her son Micah to his grandmother's house where the grandma believes her son , Niki's ex-husband , is innocent of the charges he is in jail for . In the beginning of this episode , we find Matt the cop , after passing out in the bar after witnessing a black man as the only one he couldn't read the mind of , strapped to a machine with that black man and Claire's dad watching over him . Claire's dad tells the black man to " dig deep " just as Matt asks , " Who's Claire ? " Hiro and Ando are in Las Vegas where Hiro reluctantly uses his stop-motion powers to help Ando win at gambling . Hiro eventually gets knocked out by some guards while Ando stands helplessly . Mohinder tries to warn politician Nathan about some future crisis but gets the brush-off . Because of this latest humiliation , he wants to go back to India but gets sucked backed in by Nate's brother Peter who brings Mohinder's father's book with him . Peter mentions his possible ability to siphon other people's powers to a skeptical Mohinder . Meanwhile , as Claire wakes in the morgue , she magically heals her skin and leaves without notice . Back at school , she encounters another girl who confides in her that the quarterback had done to her what Claire had just experienced as that quarterback appears before Claire's eyes and blatantly flirts with another girl . Claire takes that quarterback for a speedy ride hoping to get him to apologize for his behavior with her . No dice . She speeds up till they crash into a brick wall . Niki is at the Vagas hotel doing her job when she encounters Nathan who is on a trip . As they get to a room , Nathan mentions he's married with two sons which seems to make Niki resists his advances . After she leaves , Niki encounters someone who wants some payment his now-dead cohorts didn't get . It is in the elevator that Niki switches to a more aggressive personality and threatens this someone with her heel . She tells this someone to " leave our child alone " . She then comes back to Nathan's room and is recorded on camera as she makes love to him . Peter convinces Mohinder to come to painter Issac's apartment to see Peter siphon Issac's ability to paint the future but the artist is too into his work to even answer the doorbell . As they get back on the train , Mohinder again displays his skepticism as everything stops except Peter , then a Japanesse man from the future greets Peter and says , " I am from the future , it's nice to see you without your scar . " It is Hiro , speaking perfect English , with a katana and long hair and no glasses ! Okay , so this has just got more interesting ! I liked all the developments though like many others I did wonder why Mohinder suddenly seemed to do a 360 degree turn in his personality . Hope to see more of Greg Grunberg as Matt next week and that he still has some of his mind-reading abilities intact . Oh , and to Claire : You go , girl !
Heroes : Hiros is another excellent episode of the best new series	At the end of the last episode , Future Hiro contacted Peter on a subway train with Hiro having stopped time for everything and everyone around them . He instructs Peter , " Save the cheerleader , save the world . " Then he leaves as everything moves again . In Las Vegas , Claire's dad and his black assistant are holding Peter's brother Nathan in custody but Peter manages to fly off before they can do anything to him . Present Hiro and Ando are thrown out of a car near a diner after being beaten by guards from a casino . Ando goes while Hiro stays at the diner . Hiro looks out the window and sees Nathan landing in the desert with nothing but his pajama pants . Nathan comes and orders some food and a shirt while Hiro introduces himself and mentions his powers . Nathan then offers Hiro a ride . Meanwhile , Matt the cop's wife is on the phone worried about her husband when she sees him on the couch waking up . He's been gone for a day and doesn't remember much . He reads his wife's mind and eventually fixes her dinner and they start to make love . Claire the cheerleader and the quarterback are in the hospital being treated for injuries . Claire tells her dad what happened at the bonfire . The dad confronts the quarterback and threatens him , then has his black assistant do something to his mind . When Claire tries to apologize to the quarterback for wrecking his car , the quarterback doesn't even know who she is . Niki the stripper returns home to find the police there looking for her ex-husband believing he's there . Ando trespasses and gets held for questioning . Niki lets him go then we find her ex hiding where no one has found him yet . Matt goes to a convenience store to get his wife some ice cream when he hears a customer's thoughts of robbing . He confronts him and convinces him to put his gun down on a shelf then takes the gun himself and frightens the customers before passing out . Ando and Hiro reunite and call Issac the artist at his home where Peter is finishing Issac's painting of the cheerleader running from something that's covered in blood . Peter answers the phone with Hiro on the other line but since it's Present Hiro technically they haven't even met yet . . . Another intriguing episode with some revelations that are sure to be answered in future installments . Most entertaining characters in this episode are Hiro and Matt . Most loathsome is definitely the quarterback . This is the best new series on television right now , so by all means check it out if you haven't seen it already !
Up Is Down is a wonderfully unique animated short from Millie and Morton Goldsholl	Inspired by June Brindel's children's short story " Luap " , designer-writer-director Millie Goldsholl's Up Is Down tells the story of a boy who walks with his hands with the result being his visualizing everything in a more sunny , optimistic view than the more coldly and cynically detached one of many of the adults that surround him trying to change him into their viewpoints by using all the experiments at their disposal . The abstract animation of the humans mixes with various fast-cutting of various photos that illustrate many of the turbulent events that illustrated the era this film was made in . Included in those pictures is one of the late Martin Luther King , Jr , who is dedicated in memory of in this provocative short . Along with the compelling narration of Hans Conried was the childlike music of Dick Boyell that made Up Is Down quite a statement of how polarizing opposite viewpoints can truly be and how one needs to find some middle ground to truly make things balance out . Produced by Millie's husband , Morton Goldsholl , Up Is Down is well worth seeing for animation buffs and those who agree with the message this short is sending .
Company Man is one of the best episodes of Heroes	The last episode ended as the Bennet family was being held hostage by Matt and Ted . This one almost exclusively keeps the focus on them . During the whole hour , Matt reads the minds of Mr . Bennet and Claire and finds out most of their backstories as a result . As a result , Matt shoots Claire , who is indestructible , then he and HRG take her to her room to talk things over about revised plans that don't include Ted . They let Ted stay while they go to the paper factory Claire's dad works at to get the needle that reduces the power of Ted's fire making . Ted has the mother and son tied up after the son tries to hit Ted with a baseball bat . When Matt and HRG return , they give Ted all the info he wants temporarily distracting him while Claire unties her mom and brother . Ted's thirst for revenge overwhelms him , however , so he flames up to the point of burning the house . The father tries to inject Ted but is led out of the house by Matt as Claire takes the needle to do it herself . She comes out burned but alive as she slowly heals herself and gets embraced by her family . Much of this is witnessed by HRG's boss who now wants Claire in the " organization " . Later on , HRG , Claire , and the Hatian man come to the bridge where , in a flashback , Mr . Bennet shot the invisible man and left thinking he died there . Now the Hatian man shoots Claire's dad below the fatal heart area and then wipes his mind . Claire cries and embraces her dad saying , " I love you " . . . Perhaps the best episode of the season so far with a more singular focus than we've been used to in the last few weeks . Fascinating use of black and white in the use of various flashbacks of the father's initial hiring and subsequent events of his adopting Claire from Hiro's dad ( welcome return of George Takei with amusing depictions of young baby Claire-with her half smile-and an under 12 , video game playing Hiro ) , his partnering with the teen-aged " mute " Hatian , getting assistance from his daughter in picking glasses , and the invisible man's shooting . Eric Roberts makes an appropriate creepy debut as HRG's boss . Great emotional performance from Hayden Panettiere . Next week should be just as , if not more , exciting . Until then . . .
Breach is excellent true-to-life story of Robert Hanssen	Breach is based on the true story of the capture of Robert Hanssen , an FBI agent responsible for many treasonous acts against the United States . Chris Cooper is excellent throughout in portraying a Catholic family man who goes to church constantly with his wife and kids while hiding his sexual perversions . Ryan Phillippe is Eric O'Neill , Hanssen's new assistant who is assigned by boss Laura Linney to keep tabs on Hanssen to use as evidence against him . Caroline Dhavernas as Eric's European wife who wants Eric to come clean about his job , Gary Cole as another agent , and Dennis Haysbert as Linney's superior round out the fine cast in a film that slowly but surely builds up suspense in the various ways of snooping that brings the bureau closer to catching Hanssen in the act of treason . Don't expect James Bond or Alias action here . Do expect an excellent drama about an agent who almost slipped from the FBI's hands .
It's the Natural Thing to Do is a hilarious Fleischer Popeye short	This is a Max Fleischer Popeye cartoon . As such , there is a lot more inventive humor than in the more formulaic Famous Studios ones from many of the same animators . I guess the real difference is in the presence of Max and his brother Dave , as usual credited as director . The short begins with Popeye and Bluto fighting outside . Olive Oyl , washing dishes inside , gets a telegram that she passes to the boys that says in essence to stop fighting and act more civilized as signed by the Popeye Fan Club . So they do while getting some food service that results in the three of them trying to balance various food and drinks literally on their hands ! They then try to make conversation about conversing and language . Eventually , it ends with a gradual slapstick scene that ends with them all singing , " It's the Natural Thing to Do ! " . . . Hilarious from beginning to end , it's a shame that perhaps because of the black-and-white imagery , this and other Fleischer cartoons have not been seen by many of the public in nearly 30 years . Perhaps this will be rectified when Warners finally releases a Popeye collection later this year . Anyway , if you're interested in seeing Popeye outside of the formula plots of the Popeye / Bluto / Olive triangle then It's the Natural Thing to Do is as good a start as any . . .
Jitterbug Follies is another funny Milt Gross cartoon from MGM	Jitterbug Follies is one of only two MGM cartoons to star comic strip characters Count Screwloose and J . R . the Wonder Dog as directed by their creator , Milt Gross . The other one was Wanted : No Master . In this one Screwloose and J . R . try to bilk some money out of a bogus talent contest but are forced by a couple of thugs for " Citizens for Fair Play " to put one on . So we see a hippo singing opera , Mother Goose singing big band as she strips to reveal a young woman with a short-skirted dress , an ostrich " fan dancing " , and a couple of penguins who keep going on stage attempting to sing despite constantly getting thrown out . Those gags make this one of the most creative cartoons for MGM before Tex Avery and Tom and Jerry put the studio on the animation map . Too bad Gross didn't make any more films after this one . You can see both this and Wanted : No Master on YouTube .
Julia Louis-Dreyfus has great homecoming on Saturday Night Live	On this May 13 , 2006 broadcast , the cold opening takes us to an alternate universe as we see President Al Gore address the nation on how well our country's been doing . Yes , that's the real Al Gore ! He then says , " Live from New York , it's Saturday Night ! " During the monologue , Julia Louis-Dreyfus mentions being on SNL from 1982 to 1985 and being the first female former cast member to host ( it's at this point that I wish they had shown some sketch highlights from her earlier period-like the spit-take talk show skit from her last show or The Julia Show when she talked about just herself even with guests Eddie Murphy and Jamie Lee Curtis ) . She then mentions her new show , " The New Adventures of Old Christine " in which she talks about alternate titles like " CSI : Christine " . She then discusses the " Seinfeld Curse " leading to a film of her encountering Jason Alexander and discussing his being on the show . Jason leaves happily before getting hit by a car ! " Oh , well " , shrugs Louis-Dreyfus . Then a ceiling light almost hits her . " Curses " , says a taped Jerry Seinfeld up above holding scissors . Next comes Techpack , a commercial parody about carrying Ipod and other entertaining gadgets on a belt that could also carry a bomb . We then go to a restaurant where Louis-Dreyfus is joined by Amy Poehler , Rachel Dratch , and Maya Rudolph and a homeless guy ( Bill Hader ) outside the window makes obscene gestures to Poehler , Dratch , and Rudolph but not to Louis-Dreyfus who gets jealous at not getting the same attention as her friends . While I enjoyed this sketch , I half thought that maybe Louis-Dreyfus and Dratch should have switched places but that's just me . . . Next is a morning talk show skit where every technical thing that can go wrong does . Hilarious ! In the next sketch , Louis-Dreyfus plays a mom with a teenage daughter who is in a MySpace class with perverts and pedophiles portrayed by nearly the entire male cast . Very amusing . She then introduces Paul Simon who sings " How Do You Live in the Northeast ? " On Weekend Update , Tina Fey mentions George Bush approval rating going down " $3 . 00 a gallon " . Al Gore debates with Poehler about global warming . Finesse Mitchell talks about suitable prom wear . David Blane ( Andy Samburg ) talks about holding his breath at Update desk for 9 min . but only manages 22 seconds of it . On ' 70s game show Charades , first-time contestant Louis-Dreyfus is facing five-time champion Poehler in performing such pantomime bits like " licking two ice cream cones " or " seal blowing horns " . Both contestants seem to border on the sexual in their moves but the celebrity guests correctly guess Amy's charades while Julia's is described is either " fraternity party " or " stag party " ! After commercial , camera pans audience and there's husband ( and fellow former SNL cast member ) Brad Hall with their two boys ! Julia then portrays an actress who's reenacting an " Unsolved Mysteries " segment of a woman who's been abducted by E . T . , Dracula , and Gremlins with Col . Sanders to the rescue ! Kristen Wiig plays the woman who believes all this happened to her while Julia's character can't believe a word of it . Simon then performs , " Outrageous " . On An SNL Digital Short , Will Forte tries to convince Andy Samberg not to jump . . . then we find out Samberg is standing in front of Forte as the film ends with a picture of peyote with the announcer mentioning how the ad was sponsored by the Peyote Growers Foundation . Before the goodnights , we see a photo of former cameraman Al Camoin who died two days before this broadcast . Then Louis-Dreyfus thanks everyone and says , " I'm not gonna wait another 21 years to come back , I'll tell you that ! " as credits roll . Paul Simon makes his fourteenth appearance overall and first with Louis-Dreyfus . This was perhaps the best show of the season and what a homecoming for Julia Louis-Dreyfus ! Please , Lorne , if you can , bring her back as soon as possible !
Thundering Fleas is the most hilarious silent " Our Gang " short yet	This Hal Roach comedy short , Thundering Fleas , is the fifty-first in the " Our Gang / Little Rascals " series . Inspired by her older sister's upcoming wedding , Mary stages a mock one with Joe as the groom . He refuses to kiss her since he doesn't want the gang to laugh at him , however . They indeed do when Mary does the deed on Joe's lips . After one of them throws a shoe to Joe's face causing a track there , they point to Farina ( who had nothing to do with it ) who gets chased by the tracked-faced boy with dog Magnolia in tow . After Joe stops , Farina and the dog encounter a flea circus with the star attraction-Garfield . That flea ( which is amusingly animated here ) lands on Magnolia and decides to reside there with the dog now scratching herself . Along the way , Farina encounters a new friend , Scooter , who says his father is the vice-president of the U . S . They drop a bowl of fish with the amphibians jumping up and down . Scooter's mom then shows and sends Farina on his way . Meanwhile , Garfield's owner offers the rest of the gang $1 for finding his star flea . At this point , the rest of the owner's fleas are set free as Garfield tells his friends to " come on up " on the dog . It all ends in a hilarious disaster of Mary's sister's wedding . . . This has to be the most hilarious of the silent " Our Gang " comedies I've seen yet ! Besides what I've just mentioned , there's plenty of now familiar faces of other Hal Roach comedies that provide additional pleasure starting with the up-and-coming Oliver Hardy as the cop who's the first victim of the fleas as he loses his trousers and paints his bright white long johns black to prevent further embarrassment , Charlie Hall as one of the wedding musicians , Charlie Chase with a big walrus mustache that hilariously moves from side-to-side , and James Finlayson without his usual prop mustache as the preacher reacting with his familiar fisheye reaction when the groom shakes his head as if to say " no " before the fleas then also lands on the preacher . Once again , kudos to the YouTube poster who added the familiar LeRoy Shield music from the " Little Rascals " talkies for providing the topper for this very enjoyable " Our Gang " entry , Thundering Fleas .
Thirteen Days was a fine dramatization of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Earlier this month I visited my sister in Maryland , to see her first-born child , a boy , get baptized . While there , her husband showed this historical drama to me , my mother , and my other brother-in-law . We were all enthralled at the drama of what happened over 40 years ago being played on the just-unwrapped DVD . Seeing Keven Costner , as White House consultant Kenny O'Donnell , speaking in the same accent and mannerisms of the Kennedy brothers Jack ( Bruce Greenwood ) and Bobby ( Steven Culp who I didn't recognize as the same actor that played Rex on " Desparate Housewives " ) made me almost forget his movie star magnetism . Also fine in their real-life roles were Dylan Baker as Robert McNamara and Michael Fairman as Adlai Stevenson . Director Roger Donaldson takes his time in depicting the title's events that , no matter what one knows of the outcome , still provides some suspenseful turns as well as also explaining how and why certain results became . I was especially impressed at how Culp as Bobby was seeming so impatient with the way Stevenson as a UN ambassador was slowly taking his time with the Soviet premier . Maybe Donaldson was a bit much with a couple of shots of the nuclear film footage inserted but overall , I'd say Thirteen Days was an excellent depiction of how close to World War III our country was during what must have been very tense days of October 1962 .
Those Awful Hats is amusing early Griffith	A very amusing D . W . Griffith short featuring an appearance by future producer / director Mack Sennett . The entire 3-minute short , Those Awful Hats , takes place in a nickelodeon as we see an audience watching a movie up on the screen ( one of the earliest depictions of a film-within-a-film scene ) . Most of the action concerns ladies who won't take off their hats . There is one particular lady who gets so obnoxious about it a steel bucket takes it from her ! After the other ladies take theirs off , another lady keeps making a scene by keeping hers on , so that bucket then takes her up ! The end . Well worth seeing for fans of Griffith , Sennett , and anyone interested in early movie history . I managed to see this one on YouTube .
3 Godfathers is underrated John Ford-John Wayne classic	What movie do you think of when you see or hear the names of John Ford and John Wayne ? Stagecoach ? She Wore a Yellow Ribbon ? The Searchers ? The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance ? How about 3 Godfathers ? If you haven't heard of the last one , by all means search for it ! This story of three outlaws on the run who accidentally find a dying mother with infant is quietly touching from beginning to end . It is dedicated to Harry Carey , an actor both Wayne and Ford had worked with who died before filming and whose son Harry Carey , Jr . played one of the outlaws . There's also Ward Bond as the Marshal tracking Wayne and his cohorts . The music is beautiful and Ford makes great use of silences and silhouettes . As great a movie as any of the above classics from the Ford-Wayne collection !
See Greater Tuna for the eccentric characters played by Jaston Williams and Joe Sears	After seeing A Tuna Christmas on a VHS tape I checked from the library several weeks ago , I went back and found that play's predecessor , Greater Tuna , on DVD there . Once again , it was authored by Ed Howard and the show's stars ( and only players ) , Joe Sears and Jaston Williams . And once again , some of the same characters they played there appeared here starting with the morning radio personalities who inform the small town of Tuna , Texas of the local happenings . We go on from there to a woman who has a depressed daughter who didn't make cheerleader tryouts ( again ) to a man who died in a bathing suit to another man who claimed to see a UFO to . . . Oh , just watch it . The humor is mostly gentle if a little outrageous as the play goes on . As I said before , this was the kind of thing that could have been a movie directed by Robert Altman . So on that note , Greater Tuna is highly recommended .
Homecoming is another awesome episode of Heroes	All the cheerleaders seem to snub Claire because she injured the quarterback , especially co-captain Jackie . They're all gathered together in assembly outside to find out who the homecoming queen is . To everyone's surprise , it's Claire . Her friend Zack and many of his geeky and freaky friends cheer her on . Meanwhile somewhere in the desert , Jessica-the alter ego of Niki-is preparing rifle target practice with a friend in order to find Niki's ex-husband D . L . who is still with their son , Micah . Micah keeps telling his dad they need to go back since he knows about Jessica . In New York , Nathan finds Simone with one of Issac's paintings and splashes it black before Peter arrives . When he does , Simone gives him a photo of it which depicts a dead Peter lying on stairs with the clock at a certain time . In India , Mohinder looks for and encounters the boy from his dreams and asks what path to take . " You already know , " the boy says before going back to his soccer game . Peter calls Hiro's number and gets Ando who is still waiting for Hiro to come back from trying to save dead waitress by going back six months . They later meet and introduce themselves before Peter leaves for the homecoming game in Claire's school . Because he knows his daughter is in danger , Claire's father has grounded his daughter from going to the homecoming . Zack later sneaks up to Claire's window to take her away . Claire meets Peter as he looks at news clipping of Jackie taking credit for saving that fireman weeks ago when it was actually Claire who deserves it . Claire doesn't mention any of this to Peter as she leaves for the game . She encounters Jackie and they fight over Jackie's ego vs . Claire's honesty . Just then a cloaked figure who is named Syler comes to Jackie and slices her head , killing her . He also knocks down Claire who manages to escape and bumps into Peter who warns her to go as Peter tries to take Syler down as they both fall over a ledge knocking them both down . Her father is waiting for her as Claire embraces him but she goes back to Peter who , having the ability to absorb other people's powers when near them , puts himself together much like Claire does as she comes by . In India , having dreams of the boy again , Mohinder witnesses his father having the same conversation with a fellow professor as he just had with him about the boy being the figment of his imagination . Once again , the boy tells him he's known what path he'll take . So he's going back to New York . In Las Vegas , D . L . and Micah decide to go back but they find out Jessica's aiming at them in another car . And while Ando's still waiting we see Hiro in his place . It's now six months earlier and Hiro is at the waitress's birthday party . As her fellow workers take her picture , she motions Hiro to come to her side . . . Wow , I've gotta say to Claire when she knocked Jackie down after she teased Zack , you go girl ! And how awesome that Peter finally met Ando and Claire . And give Eden points for refusing Claire's dad request to get more info from Issac and persuading Syler to not go near her just as the black assistant comes by to possibly erase some of Syler's mind . Can't wait for next week , till next time . . .
Zodiac was an excellent drama about the search for a real-life serial killer	When my dad decided to watch Zodiac , he asked if I wanted to join him . I agreed to even though the movie was 162 min . I was so enthralled I didn't care about the length after a while . Director David Fincher provides the most compelling drama of this real-life serial killer despite most of the scenes leading to several false leads and one man's complete obsession to get the right man . Jake Gyllenhaal is that obsessed man , a cartoonist named Robert Graysmith whose Eagle Scout demeanor leads to his determination of finding what makes this killer tick to the point of following reporter Paul Avery's ( Robert Downey , Jr . ) files and later browbeating police inspector David Toschi's ( Mark Ruffalo ) time . This then leads to a strained marriage with Melanie ( Chloe Sevigny ) . Also of note are performances of Anthony Edwards ( Inspector William Armstrong ) , John Caroll Lynch ( suspect Arthur Leigh Allen ) , Brian Cox ( lawyer Melvin Belli ) , Richmond Arquette , Bob Stephenson , and John Lacey ( other Zodiac killer suspects ) . The whole thing just enthralled me from beginning to end and I especially was on the edge of my seat when Graysmith visited this man's house who used to work at a theatre where a Zodiac suspect was a projectionist . So on that note , I highly recommend David Fincher's Zodiac .
Presto is another excellent Pixar animated short	This is the second of five Oscar-nominated animated shorts I've watched from last year . It's from Pixar and was originally presented before their feature WALL-E which I have yet to see . A magician's bunny just wants a carrot but his master keeps taking it away from him so during the performance with the master on stage with his own hat and the bunny at the side hidden by curtains holding the sorcerer's hat that serves as the connection between where the magician's hand goes , the bunny does all kinds of tricks of his own on his master while the audience thinks it's all part of the act . . . Reminiscent of the wacky stuff done by Tex Avery , Bob Clampett , and Frank Tashlin in the ' 40s , Presto provides non-stop slapstick that gets more outrageously funny with each gag before the crescendo that satisfyingly comes . And dig the beginning logo credits done in the way they might have been if this short really was made during that Golden Age of animation . In short , Presto is magnifico !
Jack-Tor is funniest ep of 30 Rock yet	Movie star Tracy Jordan has not gotten used to the constant rehearsals so he skips out whenever he can . In addition , Liz finds that he rarely follows the script or even Emergengy Exit door signs making her think he's illiterate . Meanwhile , the network exec Jack Donaghy has asked for a product placement for GE , the parent company , in the show . Liz writes a sketch that makes fun of product placements and asks Jack to appear in it since he did the GE instructional video that was shown to the writers . Two of those writers , in order to shake up Jenna , tell her that Jack plans to fire an actor in order to make budget cuts . Jenna tries to flirt with Jack's boss to keep herself from getting sacked . Liz confronts Tracy about his lack of reading skills and mentions he could get help . Since it means he can skip rehearsals , he agrees . An intern who worships Jack requests Liz and her producer not to put their boss on live TV , then shows them the long rehearsals on the GE instructional tape that took 129 takes and two days . Liz finds Tracy may have played her on the illiteracy thing and vows to catch him by putting " smallest penis " on his poster . He finally gets caught when he sees a sign saying " Lesbians wanted " and only sees Liz and the producer in the room . Liz gets Tracy to agree to follow the scripts as written . She also gets Jack to just be himself on camera and not to look at it . He later replays video of his line about firing a couple of castmembers . Jenna found out Jack's " boss " was actually an extra , having misunderstood a scene that originally looked like Jack and the " boss " were talking to each other but , in actuality , was Jack talking through an earpiece while the extra was speaking on a pay phone angry at the Extras Guild . Jenna vows to get even with the writers but only gets one of them naked on the roof before leaving him by himself . Later , she does a sexy sketch that she doesn't know is not airing . . . Even though this was a super-sized episode , I hardly saw any filler . Funniest scenes were when Liz refused to sell out , she and the other characters were suddenly plugging the Snapple drinks culminating in a walk-on by someone wearing a Snapple costume . I also loved Tracy's sudden outburst of his acknowledgement of his " illiteracy " to everyone after being told of being allowed less rehearsal time as a result . I said last week's was the funniest yet . I now stand corrected . Hope 30 Rock does well following Scrubs on Thursday next week .
The Grasshopper and the Ants was a fine Disney Silly Symphony that starred the voice of Goofy : Pinto Colvig	Just watched this Disney Silly Symphony on YouTube . In this one , a grasshopper fiddles away singing , " The World Owes Us a Living " while the worker ants prepare for the winter storage . The queen of them warns the grasshopper of what will happen if the grasshopper doesn't prepare himself but he pays her no mind . Then the blizzard comes . . . If the voice of the grasshopper sounds familiar , that's because it's the same one that will voice the eventually popular Goofy : Pinto Colvig . He provides ample charm here despite his character being somewhat lazy in nature . And when he does learn his lesson , he changes the words to reflect that learning . I'm sure the Depression audience that watched this in theatres came away with that attitude as well and possibly whistled that tune going out . Uncle Walt himself probably liked it as well since it became-with a few note changes-Goofy's theme as well . So on that note , I highly recommend The Grasshopper and the Ants .
Stardust is an underrated humorous fairy tale of the summer movie season	While I don't consider myself a big fan of fairy tale movies , Stardust intrigued me based on seeing Michelle Pfeiffer in the trailers as a villain ( especially since I was about to see her as the bossy Velma Von Tussle in Hairspray ) . Boy , is she so convincingly evil here as a witch , especially with her age-ugly makeup in the beginning and end ! Robert De Niro is also great as the pirate captain who's forced to hide " in the closet " to protect his " reputation " ! Just about all the actors like Claire Danes , Rupert Everett , Ricky Gervais , Peter O'Toole and many others do fine work here . While Danes and Pfeiffer are classic beauties , there's also stunning faces of Sienna Miller , Olivia Grant ( as Girl Bernard ) , and Kate Magowan especially when we first meet her . Newcomer Charlie Cox is fine as the lead Tristan and he looked so much like his father Dunstan as a young man that I thought that was him in early scenes with Magowan ( actually Ben Barnes ) . Many comments have compared this to The Princess Bride and while I can see some resemblances , the main difference was that with PB , you always knew it was just an imaginary tale as told by an old man to his grandson . Stardust makes you believe , for the most part , that what you're seeing and hearing could have actually happened even with all the hilarity that happens throughout . So on that note , I highly recommended Stardust .
35 Years Later-Freedom River is still relevant today	I just saw on YouTube an interesting animated short called Freedom River which depicts how the people inhabiting near this red , white , and blue sea start planting crops to feed their families and show their pride . Then that pride becomes arrogance as they turn away strangers who look different from them and they start throwing things in the river that make them turn away from the reality of how ugly they've become with themselves . This short is basically telling us that only WE can turn things around . Orson Welles is very effective with his narration in presenting this parable about the Vietnam War and pollution that was so prevalent during the year ( 1971 ) this short was made . Worth a look to find how timely this short is even today with the environment , immigration , and the Iraqi War dominating the headlines .
This final episode of " Late Night with Conan O'Brien " caps 16 excellent years for the carrot-topped host	With this final " Late Night " episode , Conan O'Brien said goodbye to Studio 6A , Rockefeller Plaza , and New York as he now prepares to go to California and take over " The Tonight Show " on June 1 . During this final original telecast , the tall , pale , red-haired host showed his favorite segment of all : his interviewing and later playing with various members of a baseball team reenacting the sport as it was during its beginnings in the 19th century . Quite hilarious especially when Conan flirts with a shy brunette ! As he had throughout the week , O'Brien then took apart his set and gave parts of it to the excited studio audience . The " surprise guest " that was promoted for this particular show turned out to be none other than Andy Richter who frankly was no surprise to me since I thought , well who else but the sidekick from the first seven years who helped Conan get over beginning nerves all those early days ? Great to see them together again , not to mention all those clips like when Conan tricked Andy into appearing with Matt Lauer on " Today " stark naked ! After final musical guest The White Stripes perform , Conan then thanks all the people who helped him in his success among them : David Letterman , Jay Leno , Lorne Michaels , etc . Our last image of him is of giving every audience member a piece of his set that was just dismantled by various crew members . Oh , and Will Ferrell also appeared during the monologue as former President George W . Bush before again stripping to his leprechaun undies ! You've given us 16 entertainingly hilarious years from New York City , Mr . O'Brien . Here's hoping more from you in California in a few months . . .
Do-Over was a more than adequate welcome back for " 30 Rock " s third season	First off , kudos all for Alec Baldwin's Emmy win as well as Tina Fey's 3 . They were all deserved ! Now for the third season premiere , Liz tries to get in good with the adoption representative ( Megan Mullally ) while Jack tries to get his job back as Devin ( Will Arnett ) threatens to shut the network down . With Ms . Fey as writer , one shouldn't be surprised at the many disastrous things that happen during both plots as they threaten to collide to hilarious results . Don't feel like revealing any scenes right now but I will reveal Liz ' last line to Jack : " Glad to have you back . " And very glad this show is back for another season . The ratings went a little up for this first episode of the new season possibly because of Ms . Fey's additional exposure on her old " SNL " grounds as Vice President candidate Sarah Palin ( which I though was funny as hell ! ) . So on that note , Welcome Back , " 30 Rock " ! P . S . The line Liz says to Jack was actually , " I just like seeing you in there . " I just found out ( and remembered ) courtesy of the TV Guide TV blogs .
The Mousetrap is the best " T : TSCC " episode so far this season !	When I wrote the comment for the last episode , I forgot to mention that Sonya Walger-who is best known to " Lost " fans ( like me ) as Penny there-returned as Charlie's wife Michelle . She gets kidnapped here by Cromartie in order to get to John . This is a very intense episode that's nail-bitingly suspenseful throughout . Great performances by all involved especially by Ms . Walger and Dean Winters as Charlie . There was also another appearance by Busy Phillips as the pregnant house owner who brought some needed humor in the beginning . Oh , and I once again have to mention how mature Brian Austin Green has become in his acting compared to his juvenile " 90210 " - days . The Mousetrap is the best episode of " Termnator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " so far this season . Very highly recommend !
Another Classic Felix Cartoon	This is another Felix cartoon worth preserving that you can see on YouTube . It starts with a mouse about to walk a rope tied to a ship being chased by Felix . After they both get on , a sailor unties the rope leaving them stuck in ! As the ship sails , Felix gets seasick . The ship lands in Holland . Felix flirts with a human Dutch girl . Her boyfriend catches them and throws the cat out but not before Felix gets a pump from a nearby car and pumps the boy's pants up causing it to hoist the boy to the sky . Felix then takes a banjo and serenades the girl . It bothers a big man in a nearby house who throws a shoe that hits Felix's head . Felix uses the shoe as a boat and an exclamation point above his head as an oar ! He goes to the man's house and finds a bottle of milk he'd like to drink . The man tells him he can't have it unless he waters the plants . Before doing so , Felix accidentally backs unto a table of gin which knocks the gin into a water spray can ! The cat picks that spray can and sprays some flowers that keep asking for more . Then he sprays a tree trunk that gets drunk and starts staggering all over the place ! The man is furious at this and chases Felix all the way to a windmill . Felix dispatches his tail and uses it to spin the windmill fan which forces the man's clothes off and the man himself to blow away . Felix laughs as we iris out . It's easy to see why Felix was such a phenomenon during the ' 20s , since pre-Mickey Mouse there hadn't been such an animated character with such personality . By all means seek this one out !
Free Radicals is another amazing Len Lye short	Along with A Colour Box and The Peanut Vendor , Free Radicals is another highly exciting experimental animated short by Len Lye . Seeing chalk white lines constantly moving on a black background with African drums playing throughout makes for one of the most unique experiences I've ever seen in animation history . How is it I've never even heard of this guy until today when I looked up Cartoon Brew and there was an item about The Peanut Vendor ( an early experimental stop-motion from the early thirties ) that depicted a monkey and various uses of his tail . The item took me to YouTube which also had Free Radicals and A Colour Box and I was blown away by all three shorts ! To anyone with a taste of the unusual , I suggest you seek all them out !
The Screwy Truant is hilarious Tex Avery cartoon from MGM	When I was a kid watching the Tom and Jerry show on weekday afternoons in the late ' 70s and early ' 80s , I watched most of the cartoons they aired that was from the ' 40s including those starring Droopy or Barney Bear . For some reason , however , they never either showed or I never saw any Screwy Squirrel cartoons made during the same time . So The Screwy Truant is the very first one starring this admittedly unappealing , both visually and personality-wise , character I've ever seen . Despite that , I loved the " everything but the kitchen sink " ( actually , don't think too much about that one ) humor of the entire premise of the title character playing hooky and getting chased by the truant officer with all the fast-paced wackiness you can only expect from the one and only Tex Avery . Absolutely nothing is sacred , certainly not " Little Red Riding Hood " or jokes related to WWII air raid uniforms . So to anyone who loves great animation and great laughs , The Screwy Truant is for you !
Hardrock , Coco , and Joe : The Three Little Dwarfs is a charming stop-motion holiday short	The Hill and Range song publishing company , which also licensed UPA animation to film shorts of songs " Peter Cottontail " and " Frosty the Snowman " that became staples of kids ' shows on Chicago TV , asked a stop-motion company named Centaur Productions to make one of Santa's elves that are the names in the title above . The chorus , which sing with no musical accompaniment , tell of their travels with the big red-suited man as he goes on his holiday rounds . Wonderful visualization that captures the song perfectly . By the way , the head of Centaur was a man named Wah Ming Chang who would later work on some Disney projects as well on George Pal's Tom Thumb . He would also design Elizabeth Taylor's jewels and headdress in Cleopatra and some " Star Trek " props like the communicators and , in one episode , Tribbles . Definitely worth a look .
Christmas with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir may be just right for the holiday spirit	With the dearth of Christmas variety specials since the deaths of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope , I have looked more and more at PBS for any Christmas music specials that help me get in the holiday mood . This year was the first I decided to watch one with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir in its entirety . It starts with plenty of garland-flowered young girls dancing up the aisles as the various male and female choir members sings of holiday cheer . Many of the songs are led by a beautiful woman , in both looks and charms , named Sissel . Such a wonderful display of music and enchantment that perked up whatever depression I might have experienced up to that time . So to anyone feeling a need to get in the right Chirstmas mood , this special from PBS that's also now on DVD may do it for you .
The Drag is both entertaining and educational in showing the dangers of smoking	Nominated for the 1966 Oscar , this animated short from the National Film Board of Canada depicts a man on a psychiatrist's couch who's telling him about how he came to start smoking in order to join the " cool " crowd and after finding about the cancer scare has a difficult time stopping . Filled with background collages of various cig ad slogans as well as many figures the protagonist tries to emulate , this jazz-scored animation project is both entertaining and educational in showing how difficult it really is to kick an addictive habit as illustrated by a dream sequence when he tries for the first time . So for that reason , The Drag is highly recommend .
Queen's Gambit is the best episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " so far	Sarah gets a call from Andy Goode , the guy whose house she blew up when she realized his computer-Turk-would be in Skynet's future , and finds out he made a new one that's being entered in a chess contest with Japan with the winning country getting a contract with the military . With John and Cameron in tow , Sarah watches as the American picked by Goode seems to be winning but at the last minute the Japanesse woman wins by default . At school , Cameron asks John about all the notes the girl who committed suicide , Jordan , is getting . He replies , " Somtimes crying's not enough . " Cromartie , in the form of an FBI agent that he killed , arrives at Charley's house asking about Sarah Conner . Charley explains he knows a Sarah Resse not a Sarah Conner . After the agent leaves his card , his wife Michelle says she knows by his " tell " when he's lying . So he tells her the truth about seeing John when he broke in while she was gone . After Andy got angry at his partner for losing , he later turns up dead as Sarah discovers him as such just after seeing someone come from his room accidentally hitting her . She then confronts him knocking him down just as some cops arrest him . Later , when she goes to his cell in disguise , she finds out from him he's her former lover's , and John's father's , brother Derek . Back at school , the guidance counselor asks Cameron about Jordan since Cameron is the last person Jordan saw . He gets Jordan's last words from her in Jordan's own voice that must have given him some chills . He then lets her go . After Sarah gets Derek out of jail , another Terminator breaks in his door and finds him gone leading to a chase that climaxes this episode . Needless to say , Cameron defeats the Terminator after he loses him arm and gets a button in his head screwed off . She also tries to fix the wound the Terminator shot on Derek who initially resists because of what she is before Sarah says , " She's on our side . " The wound is too big so Sarah tries to use her tazer to find the nearest doctor but John goes instead and finds Charley who appears stunned at seeing Sarah before working on Derek . . . This was a very exciting episode with a tighter plot and more interesting characterization . I am also impressed at the development of Agent Ellison with his finding that Terminator's hand near the end of this episode . Also , how cool is it seeing former " Beverly Hills , 90210 " player Brian Austin Green as Derek ? The stubble on him pretty much made me forget he was once David Silver . Also , it was once again cool to see Sonya Walger-Penny on " Lost " - as Charley's wife Michelle . Hope her character doesn't die too soon . And it was nice to see Cameron become a little more human first by trying to get Sarah to write her feelings about Andy's death by offering her a pencil ( of course , Sarah breaks them ! ) , then seeing Cameron herself sitting at a desk with paper on them . And that chase that I referred to was the most exciting I've seen on this series so far ! So in summary , Queen's Gambit was the best episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " I've seen right now . Until next time . . .
Dr . Seuss ' How the Grinch Stole Christmas ! is highlight of Chuck Jones ' animation career	Chuck Jones ' animated retelling of Dr . Suess ' How the Grinch Stole Christmas ! has been an annual TV holiday staple for the last 40 years despite the recent live-action version starring Jim Carrey and directed by Ron Howard . Anyone who loves Suess and Jones and animation should definitely love this definitive version of someone who's meaner than Scrooge simply because he wants to take Christmas away from everyone . Boris Karloff lends his iconic voice as both the narrator and title character . June Foray is perfect voicing the little girl Cindy Lou Who as she wonders why the Grinch is taking the Christmas tree . Thurl Ravenscroft , Tony the Tiger himself , is appropriately bombastic singing " You're a Mean One , Mr . Grinch " throughout . Albert Hague , best known as the music teacher in both the TV and movie Fame , brings wonderful music to the three songs with lyrics by Suess . And Eugene Poddany is fine scoring the rest of this wonderful holiday special . As for Jones , who else would you get to bring such a witty book on film than the one who always gets Bugs Bunny to say after being provoked , " Of course you know , this means war ! " Welcome Christmas , everyone , indeed !
Dungeons & Dragons was another cool episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	This episode begins when the last one ended : With Charley attempting to fix Derek Reese who can't lay still because he thinks Cameron wants to harm him . We then see flash-forwards of the future he came from with Kyle , his brother and the father of John Connor with Sarah , and other rebels trying to avoid the Skynet machines that flash lights on them . We see them get captured and chained in an abandoned house and then somewhere down the road , Kyle disappears , presumably to where Sarah lived before John was born . . . Back in the present , Sarah tells Charley everything ( well , almost . He figures on his own Kyle's connection with John ) and while he doesn't understand , he accepts . He does think that Cameron , while hot on the outside , is a " very scary robot " on the inside as he sees her about to burn the exoskeleton of the Terminator from the last episode . We also once again see the part from his head that she puts in her pocket . What's up with that ? Back in Derek's flash-forward , he's encountering Cameron here who is also in the protect mode there but because of his harsh treatment by other machines immediately tries to shoot but is prevented so from a superior . After demanding a few times , he finally gets to see future John but he looks like his younger self . That's because by this point we flash back to the present with that John waking Derek up and telling him what a great hero his brother was without revealing his relation to him with respect to his mother . In the last flash-forward scene , Derek and his comrades are teleported to the present Los Angeles naked where the ruins they came from are replaced by the still-standing buildings from perhaps a time before any of them were even born . Oh , and before that , we find out that Andy Goode was chained with Derek and Derek actually killed him when he went to his room . With that , this episode ends . . . Another awesome episode with some cool gore scenes that lives up to the " Viewer Discretion Advised " warning that always appears in the beginning of this program . Compelling use of closeups and lighting for the future segments and good exposition dialogue between Charley and Sarah . By the way , Sarah looks particularly luminous in those close-ups . Is Cameron's mentioning of some machines " going bad " a foreshadowing of what is going to happen to her especially after getting some parts from the destroyed Terminator following her statement that " all parts must be destroyed " ? ( or was that Sarah that said that ? ) Oh well , since I don't want my head to keep on spinning ( or exploding ! ) , I'll just say Dungeons & Dragons was another excellent episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " .
What He Beheld was excellent for what became the season finale of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles "	This episode begins sometime in April of 2011 , Judgement Day . We see a teen boy throw a ball for his younger pre-teen brother to hit . They're Derek and Kyle Reese as kids . Then we see nuclear planes fly above . Their world is about to end . Flash to present day as Sarah plans to find Sarkissian , the one who was sold the Turk by Dimitri . We see this guy , Sarkissian , going to the boy who sold Sarah the fake IDs trying to find her whereabouts . He manages to wipe out his gang after initially denying knowing her . During a field trip to a museum , John reveals to Cameron that it's his birthday and his mother has forgotten . Cameron then finds a person she recognizes as one looking for John and tries to get to him only to be told to stay in her group . We find out later she eventually killed him and put him in a random car trunk . When John's friend hears this from her , he laughs thinking she's joking and then asks her to go to prom with him . She hesitates before John , in a hurry , tells her to say , " Yes . " She does with an attitude . John's friend is over the moon ! Agent Ellison meets with Charley Dixon and asks about Sarah Connor . Dixon denies knowing then goes to Sarah's to tell her Ellison might believe her about the machines mission . She doesn't care and tells Charley to forget about her and John . The woman who had guarded Carlos , the one who dealt in fake ID's , goes to the Connors ' house and leads them to Sarkissian's whereabouts . He had earlier met Sarah and blackmailed her into giving more money so he would keep shut about her fugitive status in exchange for the Turk , which we later find out he sold . Now knowing she was double-crossed , the Connors , Reese , and Cameron go to his office and Derek , despite Sarkissian holding John and Derek holding a girl not his daughter , shoots him with no mercy though he does cover the girl's eyes before doing so . A little before that , Derek wishes John a happy birthday and gives him a nice surprise : A glimpse of him and Kyle as kids younger than the ones at the beginning playing ball with Kyle , John's father , briefly looking at him . It's at this point that Derek reveals he knows of the relation between Kyle and Sarah . As the episode reaches it's climax , we see Ellison raiding the motel that Cromartie inhabits . Then , one by one , in a beautiful single shot underwater to the score of a Johnny Cash tune , all the SWAT team drops down to their death as we here the muffled shots coming . When Cromartie confronts Ellison , he is spared . Sarah reveals to her son she knew about his birthday and plans are made to go out before they get interrupted . The last scene is of a man who was the clerk at the internet café who is the real Sarkissian passing by Cameron as she is starting her SUV . Suddenly , it explodes ! . . . Well , this was a very exciting episode to end the season though it really wasn't supposed to be the last one of such since this was only the ninth of what was going to be an initial 13-episode run . I laughed when Cameron said " Yes ! " to John's friend when he asked about the prom . That was a genuine human moment for me . All the other cool scenes I've already described as such above so on that note , I definitely hope Fox renews this show for another season and am so glad the writers ' strike is over ( and that they got much of what they deserved ) . Until next time . . .
Carmen Jones was a shining highlight for Oscar-nominated Dorothy Dandridge	In reviewing African-Americans on film and television , in front of and behind the scenes , for Black History Month , I had always intended to start from their earliest available work all the way to their latest by the end of February . We're now at 1954 and the release of Carmen Jones . Harry Belafonte and Dorothy Dandridge , who were the leading players previously in 1953's Bright Road , sizzle as Army man Joe and the very alluring title character . They're accompanied by a very capable supporting cast : Olga James as Joe's spurned nice girlfriend Cindy Lou , Pearl Bailey as Frankie and Diahann Carroll as Myrt-two of Carmen's best friends , Joe Adams as boxer Husky Miller , Brock Peters as Sergeant Brown , and-in a nice surprise for this " Amos ' n ' Andy " fan-Roy Glenn and Nick Stewart as Rum Daniels , Husky's manager and Dink Franklin , Daniels ' associate . In fact , my favorite scene was the " Whizzin ' Away Along De Track " number as performed by Bailey , Glenn , Joseph E . Crawford ( Dink Franklin's singing voice ) , Bernice Peterson ( Myrt's singing voice ) , and Marilyn Horne ( Carmen's singing voice ) . When I looked up Stewart's IMDb listing , I was also pleasantly surprised to find out he also appeared in the other All-Black musicals I reviewed-Cabin in the Sky and Stormy Weather . Anyway , despite the dubbed singing for many of the players ( which also includes LeVern Hutcherson for Joe and Marvin Hayes for Husky Miller ) , this was one of the best movie musicals I've ever seen , certainly of the kind that had lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II . And Ms . Dandridge deserved her Oscar nomination as Best Actress-the first time such a nod was given to a woman of color . Only thing left to say is I highly recommend Otto Preminger's Carmen Jones .
This Pete Seeger documentary is excellent in most every way	Just watched this on " American Masters " and all I've got to say is : What a great documentary on a great man ! What a chronicle of Seeger's journey in music and activism from playing and riding with Woody Guthrie to going overseas to getting married to singing first with the Almanacs and then The Weavers to getting blacklisted for his views on the public stage and network television to getting invited on the Smothers Brothers show and being allowed to sing the anti-war song " Waist Deep in the Big Muddy " to having annual concerts on saving the Hudson River from pollution to getting various awards late in his life ( like the presidential medal from Bill Clinton and the Kennedy Center Honors ) to just enjoying life , this is one of the most life-affirming and enjoyable music documentaries I've ever seen . As another one of his songs goes , " To everything turn , turn , turn " . . . indeed !
My Daddy the Astronaut is one of the best of the Shamus Culhane-directed cartoons from Paramount cartoon studios	Just watched this Paramount Fractured Fable on YouTube . Made in the waning days of the Famous / Paramount cartoon studios , this Shamus Culhane-directed cartoon was unique in that it was basically done in a style of a child's crayon drawing as animated by Al Eugster . With accompaniment from Winston Sharples ' harmonica and an unknown child's narration , this was a very amusing tale of one boy's father who becomes an astronaut after initially flying planes and then after all those physical test rides and the spaceship journey without any sickness involved , when he takes his son to a carnival the dizziness starts ! That's all I'll say except how the irony continues as the boy keeps mentioning how fine he is during the rides while his dad keeps getting sicker and sicker ! So on that note , I highly recommend My Daddy the Astronaut .
Santa Claus gets hilarious riffing on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 "	Well , this one was even funnier than the Santa Claus Conquers the Martians episode of " MST3K " . Besides Santa , there's also Pitch the Devil ( loved Mike and the ' bots comments on his dancing , " He really seems to enjoy pantaloons too much ! " LOL ) , and Merlin the Magician . This being a Mexican production , the little girl is named Lupita and " Feliz Nadivad " is printed on the store window . There's a couple of good Holiday songs especially written for the show . Those white mechanical reindeer are some of the most creepiest I've ever seen in a movie and one of them has a really creepy laugh that gets laughed at in derision by the Satellite of Love gang . Oh , and there's also a bulldog that gets distracted by a doll cat that runs on skates ! " The Hot Wheels cat ! " LOL This was one weird movie that deserved all the catcalls by the " MST3K " gang . And it's from schlockmeister producer K . Gordon Murray . That info alone should warn you about this American-dubbed picture's quality . So for any die hard " MST3K " fans , Santa Claus is definitely recommended .
Swing You Sinners is one of the most surrealistic Fleischer cartoons ever !	Bimbo , who gets his comeuppance for stealing chickens , encounters various talking gravestones with faces , many farm animals , a walking barn , and plenty of spooks and ghosts in one of the most musically jazzy surrealistic cartoons I've ever seen . Both the music and the animation makes you wonder how much drugs were taken to get the images that were presented here in the pre-Code era . Everything presented here is so unusual , so collage-like , that there's no way this would pass muster on Saturday morning television . Anyone with a love for both jazz and Fleischer animation should definitely check this one out . Hard to imagine Disney doing something like this , even when he made Fantasia .
Pussycat seems to be a unique claymation short by Takena Nagao	This clay animation short by a Japanese artist named Takena Nagao is filled with unsubtle sexuality ( but no nudity ) and plenty of gore involving the female title character in a tight dress , a business pig , and a stalker wolf . This guy Nagao seems to be the Quentin Tarantino of clay animation shorts ! There is another short of his on YouTube called Chainsaw Maid which also has plenty of gore that-because of the clay-is very comical to me . Unfortunately , this short that I'm reviewing now is the only one of Nagao's that's listed here on IMDb . So I'll just say if you love offbeat things involving animation , Pussycat should fit the bill . And one more thing , this short is definitely not for children !
Chuck Versus the Nemesis is the funniest action-packed episode of " Chuck " yet !	This episode takes place on Thanksgiving and Black Friday the next day so I'll just mention some tidbits here : With Bryce now revealed to be alive , Chuck gets in the interrogation room with him and has to prove he's the real one to Bryce by talking in Klingon which he's rusty at . At Ellie's Thanksgiving dinner , Anna shows jealousy at seeing Morgan's looks at Ellie as well as the way he's REALLY enjoying her food . Chuck also is envious watching secretly Sarah and Bryce ( who's unbeknownst to everyone else ) kissing in his bedroom , so much so he's tells Casey in encoded form about it . Chuck says " pineapple " to warn his fellow employees of an emergency as he's being held up by some enemy agents threatening to kill everyone in sight . Morgan awkwardly seeing Bryce and saying how he reminds him of Chuck's old roommate who he thinks is a " douche " . And then seeing Jeff hit on the head a couple of times after revealing how he liked being hit by a pineapple by his dad during his childhood . The episode ends with Sarah having to choose between two calls : One from Bryce on a classic antique phone made for mansions or on her ipod phone from Chuck . What to pick ? . . . Most hilarious and action-packed of " Chuck " yet ! With all my favorite characters and thousands of soccer mom shoppers contributing to the fun ! Very glad to know NBC gave this one a full-season pickup . Hope the writers ' strike ends before the episodes run out .
