Great film . NOT !	The following is in My opinion and may contain spoilers . I really wanted to like The Cell . The good things that people say about this film such as great visual effects and great acting by the film's actors maybe true and the killer may have looked bizarre and the music is good by Howard Shore but that is all that is great about this film . Why don't I like it ? Simply because this movie show its sucky scenes . It seems like the film can't make up its mind if it wants to show disturbing things or if it wants to show happy things . The film should have in My opinion took a different turn with the story . Why must there be Clive Barker like stuff in this movie ? Some of the things were just completely unnecessary . Only see The Cell if you like really strange things like the killer hung by hooks and other weird things in films otherwise stay way from this worthless junk !
The Million Dollar Waste !	Why in the whole world was this movie made ? How could it of been released with such a story and who would want to make a film with such a story and its sub-angles ? Even more questionable is why in the world did Mel Gibson even think if he'd want to be in this film ? Beats Me ! This movie is so incredibly stupid its even worse than a than asking a very grouchy person a question a hundred times in row ! Gibson's great talent is so misused here . I am surprised that this didn't hurt Milla Jovovich's career . Tim Roth is totally wasted in this film . And what in the world was with Jimmy Smits ' character ? His character was so unnecessary . I won't even go about Bono ! Many films that are good are on the IMDb Bottom 100 list . Why isn't this ? This needs to replace one and quickly too ! I don't recommend this film to anyone unless they want to see great actors being total jokes in a sucky film .
3000 ways to make a movie suck !	May contain spoilers . I think this movie had a lot of potential but since it did all of the wrong things it just made itself suck ! Why ? I'll tell you why ! It had a great cast which these great actors were totally misused especially Howie Long and Kevin Costner . Here , Costner's character is built up so well and he gets gunned down by dozens of guys which how it was filmed it made the viewer feel sorry for him . I mean that was just plain sad . What was the deal of Kurt Russell playing two of his old characters ? He played a character that dressed up like Elvis and said some of the quotes in Big Trouble in Little China and when he said these lines it sounded like it was meant to make fun of it . It seemed to Me someone disliked the quotes which that too is sad . Another thing is the sex scene . That part was so stupid and so damn unneeded which just ruined the movie from the beginning . Bokeem Woodbine really was used poorly . I don't recommend anyone to watch it even if its totally free ! I think you'll enjoy watching the side walk crack better . Many good films are on the IMDb Bottom 100 that I really like and this needs to take the place of one of them and I think that this film would be fine in the bottom 10 ! In My opinion this movie sucks !
Wendigo is such a disappointing film in My opinion : (	May contain spoilersI thought this film was going to be a true horror fest with a great creature and is I got out of Wendigo was confusion and a disappointing time . In My book the film was really about the the maniac and the Wendigo was just part of the story which most of the story focused on the family . Here we have a guy looks like Tim Roth and a kid who has action figures older than he is ! I know because the Wolf Man figure was made by Imperial and that Voltron ( not Transformers as his father character said in the film ) was the one of the first versions . Wendigo had some potential at times but having a very unnecessary strong sex scene , confusing moments , and finally seeing the Wendigo ( which turned out to be a huge dear that stood on to legs with dozens of tree branches for antlers ) at the last part of the film which the spirt or creature really did nothing . When the mess that is Wendigo ended I said that's all ? I thought there was going to be a lot more than that . If you like legends of creatures such as Bigfoot and the Mothman and like to be scared and see great horror movies then stay away from this Wendigo that went no where !
The Last Broadcast is about the Jersey Devil that you never see !	Spoiler - To Legendary Creatures fans , You will be disappointed , I'M sorry . please read on why belowWhen I rented this at video store I thought this would be great because its about the Jersey Devil and I'M a big fan of legendary creatures so I thought The Last Broadcast was going to be awesome but it failed badly and I'M so disappointed that I wasted MY money and MY time ! In the tradition of your annoying neighbor's camcorder session The Last Broadcast is a thrill to see not in the way of great acting or special effects or even the quality of a A & E Bio but in the way of a public access channell . The way The Last Broadcast starts out it looks promising and even through thirty minutes of it still seems like it has potentienal but when the movie comes close to a hour and the narriator slightly mentions the legendary Jersey Devil and it seems like the people that made this waste of film wanted theirselves and all of the people in the town to be on camera . It was like they forgot what the story was about and wrote the script as the film was rolling and especialy the end seemed like it was written at the very last minute just before I rented it . I mean The Last Broadcast seemed like it was a live broadcast tour of some town in Jersey . Some of you people maybe wondering about why The Last Broadcast is a bad movie . Simply because it sucks and here is just a few reasons why it sucks so bad and yes acording to the year this piece of garbage was made it was filmed before The Blair Witch Project but I really don't care cause both films are home movies and when I watched them I think what did I just watch ? Who thought of these home video movies is beyond ME . I guess its somebody that has a low budjet as low as thier iq . I don't know but I do know this , if you are going to make a film about something scary and / or legendary then show the dang thing and stop disappoiting ME with stuff like TLB and TBP ! 1 . This movie was about The Jersey Devil , wasn't it ? Well if it was , I didn't see it , Did You ? 2 . The Camra work is horrible and the camra seems like it needs its battery charged and the color changed and the lighting is very dimmed and most of the time when you watch The Last Broadcast you wonder what your looking at because most of the not so important scenes are poorly shown with bad editing . 3 . When we meet the town you forget that your watching The Last Broadcast for awhile and you think you are watching the 10 ' o clock news on channell what ever . 4 . Most of the actors ( if I can call them that ) seemed shy to the camra and / or didn't want any part of The Last Broadcast for some reason . I wonder what it could have been ? 5 . Did I mention there is no Jersey Devil ? The bottomline is this : Blair Witch fans will be glad to see its predeseor but fans like MYSELF of legendary creatures will be very disappointed because there is no monster , no creature , no Jersey Devil , just your normal home movie on a video cassett that you can rent at your local video store . I'M very displeased with The Last Broadcast and I hope it is the last broadcast and won't have a sequel and I give The Last Broadcast a huge 0 !
What sucky movie ! Did I say this movie sucks ?	Shadows Run Deep is a horrible movie ! Its definitely not one of those " its so bad , its good " type of films . What makes Me sick , yes absolutely sick about the movie is all of the nudity in it ! There is so much it the movie should have been called " What woman can bare it all the most before she get killed ? " : { If you are a guy and love nudity where it shows the top and the bottom for at least a half of a minute in each scene ( which to Me it seemed to be days before a scene ended ) then hurry up and find and buy this movie IMMEDIATELY ! In My opinion it would have been a good if there wasn't so damn much filth in it because the music was ok and the acting by William J . Kulzer was decent . I guess they thought it would it be great if THAT MUCH was in it ! Well , in My opinion this just totally ruins a movie . The gore factor here was really non-existent . For hardcore slasher fans there was a few killings and blood but there was only one killing on screen . My advise is if you are a fan of the Friday the 13th series , the Halloween series , and / or the Scream series ( which most of them films keeps nudity to a minimum ) don't expect something really great to happen as this crappy excuse of a slasher doesn't even come close to them and even the appearances by Kevin Costner doesn't save this movie : ( Only watch the movie if you are a nudity freak ! I hate to say it but this movie SUCKS ! ! ! That's My opinion !
What a disappointing film !	Geesh this film kinda sucked . I guess what made it so bad was the so unneeded sexuality and the use of veteran actor Gary Busey . They made made as a deranged weirdo that had an obsession with chickens ! How sick can one get ? I don't like it when I have seen a great actor many great movies and in many great roles and then some director or someone has them in role that makes them a total joke and I don't care if the actor agreed to it or not it shouldn't be done in My opinion ! And why of why was Rance Howard and Bo Hopkins in this ? The only good aspect ( I guess ) of this film is that the killer kills everyone ! That is something that rarely happens in a killer / slasher movie . Only watch this film if you have absolutely nothing to do whatsoever otherwise stay away from the film watch something else that's much more greater like Halloween !
Very disappointing monster flick : (	This film had some big potential but when the monsters , the giant komodo dragons don't do anything except for some dumb stunts and get hurt and / or killed which this was very disappointing for Me as I was expecting a much better film . If you like monster films and like to see giant animals and / or monster kill people then don't see this film because it doesn't happen : ( Avoid it if you don't want to waste your time and money .
A disappointment : (	The Flight of the Phoenix remake DVD has a nice bonus under the Special Features menu . A short Documentary called Phoenix Diaries ! Dennis Quaid , Miranda Otto , Giovanni Ribisi , Tyrese , and more make appearances in this forty-minute plus feature . This is a behind the scenes look at the film and stuff . I don't think that this one was an enjoyable as it could it have been . Why ? I will tell you ! Its all because of John Moore . Is it actually necessary to get all hyper and yelling like that ? Was it necessary to say the ' F ' word dozens of times in front of the camera while being interviewed ? I don't think so ! Who the heck does he think he is ? I sure wouldn't want to be in his one of his films especially since he threatens to kill you if you do something wrong . I mean if that is his way of joking he can lose it right now because its not funny ! As you can tell I don't like his personality . It is so unneeded to be like that ! A couple of the other actors even the ' F ' word but I think it because being around him . So I thought that I would warn you viewers if 1 . Foul language and unneeded fit throwing is not your game , 2 . If you wanted to see a pleasant making of the film because this isn't , 3 . If you have young children interested in watching documentaries . I hope that this has been helpful , Thanks for reading !
Very disappointing dinosaur movie : (	Minor SpoilersThe following is in My opinionI thought this film was going to be spectacular with all kinds of dinosaurs and action ! Boy was I disappointed : ( I don't mind films that have a lot of dialogue but this was supposed to be an adventure / dinosaurs film and is I got was the relationships between the people . This was well over two hours and I believe it was about three in a half or so and I was so disappointed about this . If want to rent or purchase this film please don't rush it because if you like any Jurassic Park film of any dinosaur film for that matter I think just about any dino movie would beat this any day because at least even the worst dino films had the guts to show the dinos and don't let the box of th film fool you because that great looking T-Rex on the box is no where to be seen in this never ending no-dino fest : ( Avoid this movie !
Disappointing film : (	Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl in My opinion is not one of the greatest movies of all time . Sure , it has a huge budget , a different cast ( which included Johnny Depp , Geoffrey Rush , Orlando Bloom , Keira Knightley , and Jonathan Pryce ! ) , great special effects , and a lengthy two hour plus run time but this film never did anything for Me and here are the reasons why it didn't . The following is in My opinion . 1 . Johnny Depp is a good actor but I just didn't know what to think of his character whether I should like him , hate him , or feel sorry for him . 2 . I'm an action movie nut and there was a lot of action but the action just wasn't exciting enough that its so great it'll be one of the films I'll see over and over . In other words nothing special or spectacular happened in this one . 3 . The music by up coming composer Klaus Badelt was ok but most of it was just recycled of Hans Zimmer's one of a kind score from the greatest epic called Gladiator ( 2000 ) ! Badelt composed an excellent score for the Time Machine and retooled the music and this is what we get for this ? Why ? 4 . Some of the things that happened in the film was supposed to be funny but I didn't think it was and I didn't think the comedy stuff was needed . 5 . The late great Trevor Goddard had a brief role in this movie and I believe it was his last one . Why give an actor with an incredible muscular build , a unique accent , and amazing talent a scene where it makes him look like a complete joke ? You may be thinking why I am saying this . How can I say this about a movie that is so high in fame and stature ? I am just saying how I feel about the film . The film had all the potential and everything going for it but it just didn't do it . I wanted to like the movie but it never changed . I don't agree about it being on the IMDb's Top 250 : # 235 ! In fact , I think it shouldn't even be on the list . There are many other films that deserve to be on the list more than this film ! You mean to tell Me that this is on the same list with The Lord of the Rings Trilogy ? Plus there are many more movies with much more excitement similar to this movie like the Planet of the Apes ( 2001 ) , The Mummy , and The Mummy Returns , and Cutthroat Island ! In My opinion Pirates of the Caribbean's competion The Hulk and Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines was so much better and exciting in My opinion ! Anyway I feel if you wanted to watch a much more epic pirate movie instead see Cutthroat Island , its much more exciting ! I hate to say this but Pirates of the Caribbean is awfully dull , boring , uninteresting , uninspiring , it has no depth , and it should be avoided like a flood !
Disappointing film but Michael Paré's performance was great !	May contain spoilers but its important for the viewer to know . This movie , In the Dead of Space or Space Fury was a total mess ! Instead of doing it the usual way of explaining I'll do it this way ! The Good : The special effects were surprisingly good . The music was also good . The actors were good . Michael Paré put on one heck of a performance which was so chaotic I laughed at him ! He was really good performing the knife tactics . There was some action . The Bad : I didn't understand the movie at all . Its confusing because this is going on , that's going on etc . There was no explanation how Paré's character became such a great knife fighter like a Green Beret or something . Same thing for Lisa Bingley's character . She acts so sad and such and then when its time to fight Paré she becomes a great martial artist and can beat him up every time ! Her character was like several types of people in one . What was the deal with her and her boyfriend ? She is in bed with him and does the love stuff with her top and stuff on and then he gets killed and then when she goes to bed she's topless ? That didn't make sense at all and on top of that the other guy is supposed to be a superstar of some kind . If his character was really a celebrity wouldn't it be helpful to tell what he is ? Why in the world was Paré's character brainwashed in the first place ? You mean its perfectly all right to let a psycho be part of a crew in a space station ? I could go on and on about this movie . Really in My opinion the film had major potential but it failed . I only recommend anyone to watch this movie if they are a big fan Michael Paré otherwise watch something else instead !
A very disappointing movie indeed : (	With Jeff Goldblum being the star I thought this was going to be a dark murder mystery but I was very disappointed with this movie . I don't know if the movie tried to be a moral movie about don't do drugs , talk to your parents if you have something bad on your mind , or a murder mystery ? Why was other top notch actors such as Samuel L . Jackson , John C . McGinley , and Famke Janssen used in the film ? McGinley was uncredited and I don't know why ? What was really the purpose of having Rosanna Arquette as the psychic ? All four had such short roles in the film . Through out the beginning is all there was the big talk about the chew and didn't find out what the chew is until the middle . I really don't know what I watched . Jeff Goldblum performed very well . If you must watch this movie prepare for a hundred minute boring fest ! If you are not sure about renting the film or not don't let the box fool you ! Avoid it no matter what you do ! Though if you want to see another Goldblum movie however watch the superior Mister Frost !
Krocodylus !	Blood Surf AKA Krocodylus is a fair film that has an okay cast which includes Dax Miller , Taryn Reif , Kate Fischer , Duncan Regehr , Joel West , Matt Borlenghi , Maureen Larrazabal , Cris Vertido , Susan Africa , Archie Adamos , Rolando Santo Domingo , and Malecio Amayao . The acting by the actors is fairly good . The thrills are fairly good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed fairly good as well . Same thing goes for the music The film is fairly interesting and the movie does keeps you going until the end . This is a fairly thrilling film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
Wired movie .	One night I saw this film from about the middle to the end of the film and I wasn't to pleased with it although Christopher Lambert was good and the film was directed Russell Mulcahy but the film was just to bizarre with dark screening , very sloppy and shaky camera angles and other things . I don't like to bash movies but this wasn't great but Highlander and horror fans I think you'll like it !
The Minority Report is such big disappointment : (	Contains disgusting SpoilersThe following is My opinions and Mine only ! When I saw this film I couldn't believe it . Right then and there from the beginning I knew it was going to be a very , very different film . Don't get Me wrong here , I love futuristic films and I . Have seen plenty of them but this film here went way out of line in My opinion . I can't believe that the great Steven Spielberg directed this . Sue he did a nice job and John Williams score was neat but this film just is too much . I said out loud that's so stupid when this dumb scene appeared and that one scene I'm talking about is when Tom Cruise just got those eye implants several hours later he is at that door and he must use his old eyes via take them out of the bag and scan them or one of them to enter . Next thing you know he drops them and you hear the old squishing sound of them being dropped and we have the pleasure seeing them roll on down the floor and he runs after them and one falls into the sewer and he catches the one by the socket ! Yes , I say again he grabbed it by the socket ! How disgusting can you be ? I want to know how this neat looking but dumb film got on the IMDb top 250 : # 131 ? Max Von Sydow is a great actor and he is one of the best actors ever but his talents are wasted here . Sure the role he played was good and he played it well what he was given but even he couldn't save this film . Again I can't believe Spielberg was a part of this . HE could have made another Indiana Jones or something I mean lets face it people wouldn't you want to see another Indiana Jones film instead of the garbage that is the Manurety Report ? Just because the film is directed by Spielberg doesn't make it a good film . If haven't seen it yet then please don't see it but if you do see it expect a hard to follow story / plot and stupid things to happen . Avoid it and see something else that Spielberg did right like any of the Indiana Jones films or Jaws to name a couple ! Once again I expected a good film out of this and am so disappointed that I got to see Tom Cruise chasing his own eyes ! That's what I always wanted to see ! NOT ! ! !
I wasn't happy with Severed	This is one of them movies that has a awesome video box but has wired camra work and unknown actors that speak with bad dialogue . Its so dark when the killings happen you can hardly see it plus the movie is hard to understand . The only star in this is WCW's Vanessa Sanchez ( Tygres in WCW before it folded ) and she is a good actress . I like low budget film especialy ones that has errors because they are fun to watch but Severed unfourtunatly isn't one of them . This movie is ok to see if you like voodoo and severed heads but this is no blockbuster but if you need something new to watch then rent Severed .
Python !	Python is a fair film that has an okay cast which includes Frayne Rosanoff , Robert Englund , William Zabka , Dana Barron , Sara Mornell , Wil Wheaton , Jenny McCarthy , Chris Owens , Sean Whalen , Gary Grubbs , Theo Nicholas Pagones , Scott Williamson , David Bowe , Keith Coogan , John Franklin , LoriDawn Messuri , Kathleen Lambert , Robert Lepucki , Ed Lauter , Marc McClure , Natasha Roth , Trevor Baer , Greta , and Casper Van Dien . The acting by the actors is fairly good . Robert Edglund and Casper Van Dien were good . The thrills are fairly good and some of it is surprising . Beware of the stupid lezbo scene . The movie is filmed fairly good as well . Same thing goes for the music The film is interesting and the movie keeps you going until the end . This is a fairly good film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
An ok comedy .	I am not big on comedies like this but it was a ok film . It did have good acting Gwyneth Paltrow and Jack Black but the thing with Jason Alexander was just stupid in My opinion . If you want a comedy then rent check out Shallow Hal today !
Disturbing horror Craven style !	People Under the Stairs is really a disturbing horror film that has a good cast which includes Brandon Quintin Adams , Everett McGill , Wendy Robie , A . J . Langer , Ving Rhames , Sean Whalen , Bill Cobbs , Kelly Jo Minter , Jeremy Roberts , Conni Marie Brazelton , Joshua Cox , John Hostetter , and John Mahon . The acting by all of these actors is very good . McGill is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like includes Brandon Quintin Adams , Everett McGill , Wendy Robie , A . J . Langer , Ving Rhames , Sean Whalen , Bill Cobbs , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great looking Godzilla , fantastic effects , but everything was just not used right .	May contain spoilers for MAJOR GODZILLA FANSAs a huge fan of Godzilla films I had huge hopes when this movie came out in the theatre that this was going to be one of the best movies ever . Boy was I disappointed . Don't get ME wrong here , I loved the way Godzilla looked and infact I don't think he could have looked better , his spines and and face was so awesome ! But what I didn't like about this film was how they used Godzilla . They made him out like an invader and shooting him for no reason and he turns about to be pregnant and not immortal like the the other Godzilla films . He looked to ME like a super hero and then turned on . The people who made this I think should have let someone else do it or not have done it at all . I was so sad when it ended and I couldn't stop crying . I'M sorry but I just don't like this movie like the TOHO movies . The bottom line is this : Great looking Godzilla , fantastic effects , but everything was just not used right . I hope you fellow Godzilla lovers have not seen this please don't because it'll bring tears to your eyes with so much disappointment .
Wishmaster 3 !	The Wishmaster series is a very different series . In this Wishmaster Andrew Divoff is gone as the the Djinn though the new plays the character well . The film in My opinion isn't as good as the first one but it is gory but its a film for horror fans ! . If you like Michael Myers , Freddy , and Jason , then you'll love the Djinn , the Wishmaster !
Disappointing film : (	The movie is ok , it has good acting and effect but that's just about it . I was disappointed about the end . Sci-Fi fans may want to check this out and James Spader is good in it and if you are fan of his you'll like him in it but I think you'll be disappointed like I was . It was just a ok film , that's all .
A fair film !	Britannic is a good film that has a good cast which includes Edward Atterton , Amanda Ryan , Jacqueline Bisset , Ben Daniels , John Rhys-Davies , Bruce Payne , Alex Ferns , Eleanor Oakley , Archie Davies , Ed Stobart , Adam Bareham , David Lumsden , Wolf Kahler , Philip Rham , Daniel Coonan , Daniel Tatarsky , and Martin Savage ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Rhys-Davies and Payne are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The nudity scene was a bit unneeded and I thought it brought down the impact of the film a few stars . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Edward Atterton , Amanda Ryan , Jacqueline Bisset , Ben Daniels , John Rhys-Davies , Bruce Payne , Alex Ferns , Eleanor Oakley , Archie Davies , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , Romance , War , Action , Mystery , and interesting true stories films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen !	Minor SpoilersThe League of Extraordinary Gentlemen is a mixture of a film and what I mean by that is I really don't know what to think of it . Should I think of it as a really cool film that has all of these characters together in one film or should I think of it as a silly film trying be the X-men ? Sure Sean Connery is in it and it has several other cast members but I saw some problems such as Stuart Townsend as the immortal Dorian Gray . Was it just Me or did he just not look like but also acted like Johnny Depp's character Jack Sparrow in Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl ? Also another similarity I noticed was when Dr . Henry Jekyll turned into Mr . Hyde I noticed that the face of the CGI creation resembled Brian Thompson and Thomas F . Wilson's character Biff in the alternate 1985 in Back to the Future part II ! I was very disappointed that M was the Phantom and that the Phantom wasn't a legit character in the film I mean with that long hair , silver mask , and cane he had the potential to be one of the best villains ever in My opinion ! The story is also a bit confusing . Most of the special effects were very good but I hate to say this but the super Hyde or whatever you want to call him near the end of the movie looked like a character or monster from some kind of video game ! I mean in My opinion it was really bad . The movie has a lot of action and has lots of potential itself but since it doesn't know if it wants to be a different kind of Universal Monsters film or a X-men film I can't say what I really think of it . Only recommended if you love Sean Connery and if you want to see lots of famous characters together in one movie then see The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen !
An ok sequel .	The Arrival II in My honest opinion is just a ok sequel . I was much more pleased with the original as it didn't have any sex or any think like that plus it showed the great looking aliens a lot more and views of the sky . Don't get Me wrong here the movie is not boring or dull its just that I think that the original one is the better of the two but if you like the Arrival and haven't seen the sequel then check it out and see what you think !
A disappointing dinosaur film : (	This film was really good until they discovered the land that time forgot . I mean it just seemed like the film focused on who is in control of the sub and killing all the dinosaurs that the could and pushing around the poor caveman . I really dislike it when films have dinosaurs and people kill them . If you are like Me and don't like to see dinosaurs getting killed then just watch the Jurassic Park Trilogy ! You'll be safe there with great entertainment !
Buy Blind Fury instead !	Cold Blood is a fair film that has a great cast including Rutger Hauer , Vera Tschechowa , Horst Frank Walter Richter , Günther Stoll , Walter Sedlmayr , Andreas Mannkopff , Anna-Maria Asmus , and Erich Kleiber . The acting by all of these actors is OK . The movie didn't get a high rating from Me here because of the lack greatness and the for the several nudity scenes from the woman . It seems like she will freely show her body on film even in the sex scene . This all brought it downhill for Me . I mean it did have a good villain and some good action but I would not recommend this film even to the hardcore fan of Haurer to watch this movie . One movie I do strongly recommend is Blind Fury ! Now that was a great Rugter Hauer movie . Nevermind this film and buy Blind Fury instead !
Great looking box , good monster but bad sound and camera work : (	Minor SpoilersI looked at this new movie at the video store and I thought let's rent it because it looked good . This wasn't the greatest horror , sci-fi , monster flick but it was watchable . The monster looked like a new breed of ape with big claws or something and it killed very differently like rooting thru a drawer or opening up a package . It even hid in the chimney like Santa Claus ! Half of the time you couldn't understand what the unknown actors were saying because it had very bad sound and it was filmed very strange . If you like to see a new horror movie then pick this Carnivore up today !
A disappointing film : ( The only good thing about it was the music !	The Caveman's Valentine was really a disappointing film . Sure Sam Jackson put on a great performance and Terence Blanchard's score was great especially the theme but other than that this one is a stinker . During the whole film I thought that Colm Feore looked just like Liam Neesan but without hair . Sometimes you just don't know what is happening in the film and I didn't care for that mixed sex scene either . I really can't say any more except only see this if you are a hardcore fan of Samuel L . Jackson !
Guilty as Charged !	Guilty as Charged is a fair film that has a good cast which includes Antonio Sabato Jr . , James Remar , Duane Davis , Yuji Okumoto , Melissa Lewis , Elijah Mahar , Emilio Rivera , Johnny Urbon , William Jones , Deron McBee , Randy Mulkey , Gary Cervantes , Robert Crow , Bob Rudd , and Dean Hayman Mason . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The only downfall is the sex and nudity scene which I thought brought the excitement of the film down a few stars but however , the film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Antonio Sabato Jr . , James Remar , Duane Davis , Yuji Okumoto , Melissa Lewis , Elijah Mahar , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Highlander fights Dracula in a very dark area of the world which is called darkness .	Minor SpoilersI watched this movie on Starz and I didn't know what to expect . Well what I got was a mixed up movie . The story is simple : A cop fights a vampire with the help from another vampire . It was like watching two movies at the same time , a highlander film and murder mystery all in one . Bokeem Woodbine is a cop and he finds out that vampires are real and that there is thousands of them living all over the globe . His new partner Adrian Paul is a vampire aswell . Theres lots of action in it and happenings and bizare ellements . The vampire make up isn't bad looking , actully it was pretty neat . I don't know why this movie wasn't a direct to video release or even in theatres ? Make sure you see it on tv or rent it on video when it is available . You'll have to watch this one atleast a couple times to get everything . If you like Blade or Highlander you'll love the The Breed ! Note : Was it just ME or did Bokeem Woodbine act like Miguel Ferrer ?
A fair film !	Mach 2 is a good film that has a good cast which includes Brian Bosworth , Shannon Whirry , Bruce Weitz , Cliff Robertson , Michael Dorn , Lance Guest , David Hedison , Andrew Stevens , Robert Pine , Ai Wan , Clark Reiner , Jennifer Hammon , Amir Aboulela , Ron Chaney , Grant Cramer , Sondra Currie , Ron Chaney , Grant Cramer , Sondra Currie , Charles Cyphers , and Nikki Fritz . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Bosworth and Robertson are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Brian Bosworth , Shannon Whirry , Bruce Weitz , Cliff Robertson , Michael Dorn , Lance Guest , David Hedison , Andrew Stevens , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Secondhand Lions !	Secondhand Lions is a family type film that stars Michael Caine and Robert Duvall ! Their acting was good especially by Duvall but I think their roles didn't allow them to do much . It just seemed like they were there only to say a few words and that was it . I think when Caine's character was telling the story and you saw all of those action scenes didn't fit in . Hey I love action in movies but in this film's case I think the movie would have been much better if those scenes were not in it . Also like the two main stars the rest of the cast could only do what they given . To be honest the best part in the film is whenever the animals are screen . The music was fine . Now on to the subject of recommending this film . I don't recommend it for fans who want to see an action film unless you want to see some action that doesn't fit in the film . However I do recommended it if you want to see a family film with some cute animals , some action , and stuff . I also recommend Secondhand Lions if you like Michael Caine and Robert Duvall . All of this is My opinion . Thanks !
Fair film !	Delta Force One : The lost Patrol is a good film that has a good cast which includes Jonathan Cherchi , Jacob Gyir Cohen , Gary Daniels , Sasson Gabai , Uri Gavriel , Michelle Kapeta , Orr Malka , Jack Messinger , Bentley Mitchum , Mike Norris , Ze'ev Revach , and John Rhys-Davies ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Daniels , Mitchum , Norris , and Rhys-Davies are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Jonathan Cherchi , Jacob Gyir Cohen , Gary Daniels , Sasson Gabai , Uri Gavriel , Michelle Kapeta , Orr Malka , Jack Messinger , Bentley Mitchum , Mike Norris , Ze'ev Revach , John Rhys-Davies the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , War , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Submerged with Dennis Weaver and Coolio !	Minor SpoilersThis is a ok air plane flick Dennis Weaver and Coolio . There is note here about Submerged . Don't quote Me on this but I believe Submerged and and another plane film called Sonic Impact has the same score ! Yes the same music in both different films ! Anyway the movie is entertaining and is a good one to watch !
An Underwood High Noon , how about that ? ? ?	I thought Dark Descent was going to be a sea monster movie but it turned out to be an underwater high noon . I say this because the story was nearly identical and and lot of the lines were aswell . Dean Cain was good as usual and the movie was ok . If I wanted to see High Noon again I would have rented it !
A good movie to watch that keeps you going ! ! !	A good movie to watch that keeps you going ! ! ! Now I ain't gonna lie to ya , this is a good movie but it does has its flaws . The movie's camra work is sloppy especialy when some action scene is shown or the camra goes to show the city or something . The camra is very off level and it pans out incorrectly and just isn't used right . Another thing , Rod Steiger is great , I was really suprised to see how well he acted in this movie , his acting was really neat , I enjoyed him in it . Brad Dourif's acting wasn't bad either , he was his same old long haired villian as he always is . Damian Chapa's role is really something , he can't make up his mind if he wants to act silly or serious . Like he kept asking Steiger stupid questions and got yelled at many times . Cool Moe Dee had a very short part in this movie aswell . As the story its quite good . It keeps you going and its not predictable . Though the whole movie you'll be guessing who did it who did it ? Its a good one see it if you have the time .
Decent flick but . . . .	May contain spoilersThe movie was good but it just didn't explain much . I wondered what were the hooded monsters and why were they after the people ? What was the mine ? Was it the gate to hell or another dimension ? How did the woman know about the strange happenings in that area ? There are many other questions to be answered like these that are part of the Channeler . Dan Haggerty was very good but he didn't show up untill the middle of the film . It was a good movie but there isn't much blood and gore for big horror fans plus with its many unanswered questions it may turn away the fans of the genre but if you have nothing to do and want to watch something different then rent the Channeler .
Just a ok horror film .	Minor SpoilersGhost Ship is just a horror film in My opinion . I really didn't find it scary and the beginning of it was really nerve-racking to Me . Gabriel Byrne , Julianna Margulies , and Karl Urban were good though . If you like horror films and seen the new 13 Ghosts and love gore you'll be disappointed because all of the gore was in the beginning . To Me is was just a ok movie , it was nothing special to Me but if you like the cast that's in it then do check it because the do perform well but big time horror and gore fans will be disappointed but that's just My opinion .
The Wishmaster 2 ! Andrew Divoff is awesome ! !	The Wishmaster series is a very different series . In this Wishmaster Andrew Divoff plays the Djinn very good ! The film starts in My opinion isn't as good as the prequel but it is gory but its not The film is a good horror movie . If you like Michael Myers , Freddy , and Jason , then you'll love the Djinn , the Wishmaster !
Silent Warnings !	Silent Warnings is very similar like Signs but it does a good job from keeping itself looking like a rip off like other people say but that's just My opinion . Billy Zane was good in the film and Stephen Baldwin was very good in a very different role . The music is good by Richard McHugh . The aliens in My opinion didn't look as realistic as they could have but they did look cool . In My opinion its not the best alien movie but its certainly not worst and well worth to rent ! If you like Aliens , Zane and Baldwin then watch Silent Warnings ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Aykroyd is great in this film !	Earth vs . the Spider is a good film that has a good cast which includes Dan Aykroyd , Devon Gummersall , Amelia Heinle , Theresa Russell , Christopher Cousins , Mario Roccuzzo , John Cho , Randall Huber , Zia Harris , Lloyd Lowe Jr . , Michael Keenan , Ted Rooney , Dan Martin , and and Rob Hill . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Aylroyd is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Dan Aykroyd , Devon Gummersall , Amelia Heinle , Theresa Russell , Christopher Cousins , Mario Roccuzzo , John Cho , Randall Huber , Zia Harris , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Action , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
A good sequel !	The second sequel to Darkman is action packed but lacks the greatness of its prequel , Darkman . The action scenes are good and the acting by the returning Darkman played by Arnold Vosloo are good . This sequel is a good film but I prefer the original Darkman first .
The Rundown !	The Rundown is fair film . The acting is very good by the Rock ! His character is very convincing ! The action is very good and in fact there was some really incredible scenes such as when the Rock used two shot guns at the same time ! Seann William Scott was also good and Christopher Walken was as good always . Yes its true that Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sven-Ole Thorsen have very brief parts in the movie . The scene with Arnold was extremely short but you could see the size of him next the Rock which they are nearly the identical stature . Peter Berg did a good job directing the film and Harry Gregson-Williams composed the score good . I think The Rock is a fine actor but in My opinion for him to be a real action hero and icon like Arnold was / is when he made classics such as Commando , The Running Man , and Predator he has to take on a more serious role and more violent film but this is just My opinion . If you want to see The Rock in a modern day action flick with Christopher Walken and special cameos by Arnold and Thorsen then watch The Rundown !
An ok remake but doesn't even come close to the classic original !	The remake of 13 Ghosts is good but this was a totally different type of horror film . I like the old classic one alot better . I just like the old classic spooky stuff better than this newer horror . Embeth Davidtz was very good and as always very attracive . F . Murray Abraham was good and Matthew Lillard was good but not as good as he is in Scooby Doo ! Though this has a good cast and horrible looking ghosts its just as good . If you havn't seen either one I recommend you see the original first and then this one . I just like the old classic spooky stuff better than this newer horror . Embeth Davidtz was very good and as always very attracive . F . Murray Abraham was good and Matthew Lillard was good but not as good as he is in Scooby Doo !
OK film !	Storm AKA Storm Chasers is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Luke Perry , Martin Sheen , Robert Knott , Renée Estevez , Alexandra Powers , Marc McClure , David Moses , E . E . Bell , Mark Chaet , Tim Colceri , Mark Conley , Justin Connor , Brendan Cowles , and Jonathan DePaz . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Perry and Sheen are very good . The special effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Luke Perry , Martin Sheen , Robert Knott , Renée Estevez , Alexandra Powers , Marc McClure , David Moses , E . E . Bell , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
First and Second viewing comments ! Fear Runs Silent ! Does It ?	A potential title with a potential story that loses potential ! ? ? ! The movie is confusing but not really when it all comes down to this . Stacy Keach is a teacher and he has taken his students on a big field trip . A teenage girl who is bothered by memories and seeing strange things like human like beings in animal type coats is being treated by a shrink to see if this is her imagination or if its something else . Her and her friends are terrorized by the beings on this field trip . So is it true that her thoughts are real or is this just a bunch made up stuff by her ? Is this beast-man is Bigfoot ? A werewolf , a mutant bear , perhaps a wild cave man or Neanderthal man ? Could it be a new breed of human ? Could it be the imagination man or could it be a old guy who thinks he is the last of the great vikings . Could it be a cat-man ? Maybe it could possibly be the legendary ghost of the forest that harms any who comes . With all of these great possibilities it could be any one ! So you know things happened in this film but did it really ? Well yes and no . Everything you saw didn't happen but when the movie is over then it will ! You see , she was psychic and nobody knew it , not even her . I hope when you see it you'll understand it because it is a good film . Stacy Keach and Billy Dee Williams are good in this film but their parts could have been larger . By the way , Keep your eye on the beast at all times , when it runs and hope the camera follows it and the beast constantly growls and makes noises and shows its teeth . I was laughing the whole time . Its just funny . Rent this and see for yourself . Its a fair movie its just that it takes a lot of patience to get use to this type of film , thats all . I rented Fear Runs Silent and gave the film another chance . The results was that I was confused even more this time . I had no problem with the cast at all as they gave all their effort for what they were given . The scene with the couple in car that was having problems in the snow had big time potential . The movie would have been a great one if it was just about the field trip and the happenings there instead of the confusing subplot with the girl's bad memories or nightmares .
Different flick !	Hatchet for the Honeymoon is one of those drive in type movies which this one is a strange one indeed ! The acting is good by the film's actors . The music seemed to Me like it didn't know what it wanted to sound like if it wanted to be a score for a horror film or a love story . Some of the music I thought sounded very similar like the classic movie Infra-Man ! There is some killing but there isn't much gore or anything graphic in this picture . I really don't know what else to say about this flick other than it is really , really different . This is part of a double feature which the other on the tape is called Anatomy of a Psycho which is also a fair oldie ! The movie is not perfect and maybe on the strange side of things but like I said its weird so give this movie a chance if you like old bizarre horror movies .
Cool film ! Bosworth is incredible in this one !	The Operative is a good film that has a good cast which includes Brian Bosworth , John Tench , Rachel Hayward , Jerry Wasserman , Teryl Rothery , Bob Dawson , Jenny Clark , Taras Kostyuk , John B . Lowe , Christopher Shyer , Gordon May , Robert Saunders , Bruce Pinard , Dan Rae , and Jason Marshall . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Bosworth is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . I thought it was cool seeing him play a duel role ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Brian Bosworth , John Tench , Rachel Hayward , Jerry Wasserman , Teryl Rothery , Bob Dawson , Jenny Clark , Taras Kostyuk the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
OK film !	Reaper is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Chris Sarandon , Catherine Mary Stewart , Vlasta Vrana , Joanna Noyes , Rob Pinnock , Gillian Ferrabee , James Bradford , Isabelle Cyr , Doug Sutherland , John Sanford Moore , Stephen Morgan , Bruce Dennis , Elizabeth Stevens , and Susanne McDonald-Boyce . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The special effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Chris Sarandon , Catherine Mary Stewart , Vlasta Vrana , Joanna Noyes , Rob Pinnock , Gillian Ferrabee , James Bradford , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Horror , Dramas , and interesting Bee films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
A ok film but if it wasn't for Arnold Vosloo it wouldn't have been as good .	The film is OK . If it wasn't for Arnold Vosloo and the train scenes this film wouldn't have been a good one . Though I didn't think the nudity was needed but it seemed after that part the film really began . Vosloo put on a great performance and his Russian accent was really good . The other two villains were good and had big potential but the film never gave them a chance to be real bad guys . The music was really good and it could have been in a blockbuster film . Overall like I said the film after close to an hour or so the film really began after the nude scene with some good action especially the bald bad guy scene on top of the train . If you like Arnold Vosloo and train action then see this film soon !
Midnight Edition ! Stars Will Patton !	Midnight Edition is a true story based on the brutal killings of a family in Georgia that star Will Patton ! This film is really unlike any other especially in the true story department . It is very different . The killer played by Michael DeLuise performed very well and this character has a big part in the film too as you would think . In My opinion Patton is a very good and underrated actor and by having stellar acting here in this film he can be in any type of film and play any kind of role . I believe he is that good of an actor ! This film , Midnight Edition is really a different film like I said above which really keeps you interested . You see how the killer works , how the relationship between Patton and the killer is and how it nearly destroys his life . The music fit the movie good . If you like Will Patton and want to see him play a good role in a true story then watch Midnight Edition !
Timeline !	One of the most talked about films is Timeline . The movie has such a different history . With all of the editing , re-shoots , and the hiring a different composer it change the film a lot . Paul Walker , Frances O'Connor , Gerard Butler , Billy Connolly , David Thewlis , Anna Friel , Michael Sheen , Lambert Wilson , and Marton Csokas . Butler , Connolly , and Csokas have excellent performances here and all of the other actors are very good in this picture . The action is very good as well . The replacement of Brian Tyler is excellent . In My opinion this maybe his greatest score ever ! Richard Donner's direction is very good as well . The film may have a few flaws like a couple plot holes and too much action and not enough of explanation of the Timeline but really Timeline is a fantastic film . If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see a very good sword fight film then I recommend Timeline !
The fourth 007 is a good one !	This is a good Bond film . It has action and the water fights are spectacular ! Sean Connery does it again ! Luciana Paluzzi looked great ! If you like James Bond and spy , and action films then check the fourth James Bond film out !
The Game !	The Game is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Michael Douglas , Sean Penn , Deborah Kara Unger , James Rebhorn , Peter Donat , Carroll Baker , Ana Alexander , Armin Mueller-Stahl , Charles Martinet , Scott Hunter McGuire , Florentine Mocanu , Elizabeth Dennehy , Caroline Barclay , and Daniel Schorr . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Douglas , Penn , and Mueller-Stahl are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Howard Shore . Good directing by David Fincher ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael Douglas , Sean Penn , Deborah Kara Unger , James Rebhorn , Peter Donat , Carroll Baker , Ana Alexander , Armin Mueller-Stahl , the rest of the cast in the film , Mystery , Thrillers , Adventure , Action , Dramas , and interesting Afilms then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Joe Estevez returns in The Remnant !	Minor SpoilersAfter just coming out we had to see it . It sounded really good and it was a good film . It has a low budget but it doesn't matter as long as the film is good . The Remnant is produced and directed by Rick Jordan . He is also the villian in the movie as well and he plays the role very good but this here isn't the story , the story is Joe Estevez ! I thought he was going to beat his great role in Werewolf but he didn't . I'M not saying that he acted bad in the Remnant but his role in Werewolf is just so much better . That role as joel was a masterpiece ! Now as for The Remnant it was a good film but don't expect it to be a super b-flick like I did .
Campbell is very good in Icebreaker !	Icebreaker is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Sean Astin , Bruce Campbell , Stacy Keach , SuzanneTurner , George Adair , Jayson Argento , Erick J . Barbic , Scott Bigelow , Sandra Cartner , Kent Cassella , Athene Cira , Stephanie De Carreau , Rusty De Wees , Jason Dolmetsch , Adam Grimes , Peggy Hayes , John James , Tom Joyce , and Mark ' Woody ' Keppel ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Sean Astin , Bruce Campbell , and Stacy Keach , are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . Its amazing seeing Bruce Campbell bald ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Sean Astin , Bruce Campbell , Stacy Keach , Suzanne Turner , George Adair , Jayson Argento , Erick J . Barbic , Scott Bigelow , Sandra Cartner , Kent Cassella , Athene Cira , Stephanie De Carreau , Rusty De Wees , Jason Dolmetsch , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Naked Gun 33 : The Final Insult !	Naked Gun 33 : The Final Insult is a good and mystery film that has a good cast including Leslie Nielsen , Priscilla Presley , George Kennedy , O . J . Simpson , Fred Ward , Kathleen Freeman , Anna Nicole Smith , Ellen Greene , Ed Williams , Raye Birk , Matt Roe , Wylie Small , Sharon Cornell , Earl Boen , Jeff Wright , Lorali Hart , Mallory Sandler , Karen Segal , Vanna White , ' Weird Al ' Yankovic , Rick Scarry , Mary Lou Retton , Glen Chin , Philip Yamaguchi , Shannen Doherty , Olympia Dukakis , R . Lee Ermey , Morgan Fairchild , Elliott Gould , Kevin Grevioux , Raquel Welch , Timothy Watters , Randall ' Tex ' Cobb , and James Earl Jones ! The acting by all of these actors is very good , The movie is hilarious and never lets up and the action is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Ira Newborn ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very thrilling film . If you like Leslie Nielsen , Priscilla Presley , George Kennedy , O . J . Simpson , Fred Ward , Kathleen Freeman , Anna Nicole Smith , Vanna White , ' Weird Al ' Yankovic , Rick Scarry , Mary Lou Retton , Shannen Doherty , R . Lee Ermey , Morgan Fairchild , Elliott Gould , Kevin Grevioux , Raquel Welch , Timothy Watters , Randall ' Tex ' Cobb , James Earl Jones , the rest of the cast in the film , the Naked Gun series , Comedy , Crime , Action , and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
First and Second viewing comments ! Not black but very discolored !	When I saw the box I thought I was in for a very big action / fighting movie . Dang was I in for a big surprise . Here is what you are in for if you rent and fall for this very different movie that seemed like a very non-u . s . a . made film with very lazy camera work , stupidish dialog , very weak atmosphere and very little action that seems really poor planning that doesn't work ! In the beginning you see these two guys arguing about nothing . The one guy says BS about 10 times . Its like he wanted your attention or that was his favorite thing to say . And then we see Gary Daniels fight this chunky guy . The camera poorly shows them fight like almost the whole time we only saw a part of their body's plus the camera was sideways and nearly upside-down . There is a lot more of this great camera work in other parts of the film . On the box Gary Daniels has a katana sword , I didn't see him use it in the film , where in the heck was it and according to the box his family is in a house and he wanted to get them out because bad guys were going to blow the home up and after all of the fighting you never saw him get them out or at the end or at any time at all . Daniels talks to this guy who in prison on a filthy bench for 15 plus minutes ! What a waste of film and time . Is all the guy was talking about was I gotta stop taking drugs and get out of here . If I wanted to a conversation like that I'LL talk to MY next door neighbor . There was so much silly talk , some of the worst camera work and it looks like some one was rubbing the color on the film , oh it was so messed up . It looked like this was a practice feature instead of a movie . I can't even describe how horrible the score and music was . This movie was so dang bad I laughed and laughed and I said I can't believe this , that someone actually made a film like this . What a terrible piece of film , I just can't believe it . Its some of the worst I have seen . Do you believe ME ? If not just rent Black Friday and see for yourself . Black Friday is one of best of the worst films ever made ! So the bottom line is if you like really bad films this is thing is for you otherwise if want a really big time action flick but I rented Black Friday and gave the film another chance . The results was that it made Me laugh even more ! The fight scene between Gary Daniels and co-fight coordinator Tsuyoshi Abe was even funnier in the green lighted car garage . The scene was a slow fight but Daniels delivers with a great kick with a mean look on his face to the sturdom area of Tsuyoshi Abe's character as he hits the wall hard . The conversation on the bench did last almost fifteen minutes ! The villain I thought was better than before but he still said BS about six times during the beginning : ) The music was very bizarre but yet it grows on you as the films goes on . I am glad I saw Black Friday again . Its an action film that's serious but make you laugh which is fine with Me !
Great performances by Jeremy Irons and Forest Whitaker !	This movie , The Fourth Angel is quite good and it has two very good role performed excellently by Jeremy Irons and Forest Whitaker ! The story is good the things in it allows Irons to do a lot . In Fact he does quite a bit in the movie . His performance is very believable as it makes the viewer believe something horrible happened to his family . The terrorists are different in the film . The music is pretty good and it fits the film very well ! The scenes when Irons and Whitaker are together really makes the film good and Whitaker does a very good job here . I feel he is really an underrated actor . Plus I like to see two unusual actors together in a film and see how they can make it interesting ! Jason Priestley was different in this one and he performance showed Me that he can be a big star ! Really the part I didn't like is the hunting scene . Other than this is a decent film ! If you want to see Jeremy Irons and Forest Whitaker is superb performance then watch The Fourth Angel !
This Steven Seagal movie is good !	I really liked Out for a Kill ! Its one of the most different Steven Seagal films ! Like The Foreigner , it is directed by Michael Oblowitz ! I am starting to like his direction and his approach to movies ! Out for a Kill is very action packed . Some of the scenes are just simply incredible like for example when the camera shows a very close up look the machine gun and the bullets that go thru the jeep ! Seagal's fighting was awesome ! He looked really neat in the back jacket and blue jeans . Honestly I thought the dialog was good and especially from Seagal and I found Myself smiling about it because he said it good ! I think he is fine actor . The sword fight scene was really the highlight fight but there are some other interesting fights as well ! For those of you who like it there was bit of nudity in strip joints but nothing major because it shows it very fast and one little part with Seagal's character's wife but it is long at all . I could give a rat's behind about all of that ! Anyway , Another thing that was very different was the intros of the characters of some of the villains . It showed bios and the camera freezed for a few seconds so you can read it ! It also showed the title of the location just about every time the film went to a new place . Overall I think it is a good movie , a little like The Foreigner but a different film ! If you are a hard core Steven Seagal fan give Out for a Kill a try because in My opinion its a good Seagal movie !
Alien Hunter !	Minor SpoilersAlien Hunter is a decent film that stars James Spader ! Yes , he is in another alien film ! It was cool to know that Roy Dotrice was in the film ! The film in some ways is very similar like The Thing from another World and I noticed that some dialog scenes were very similar like the ones in Stargate . Spader's dream sequence was quite scary . The music was good . I thought the acting was good by Spader and the other cast . In My opinion this isn't the all time best alien movie but it isn't the worst and If you like James Spader , Roy Dotrice , and alien films then watch Alien Hunter today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Super creepy movie !	The Unborn is a very , very different film . James Karen & Brooke Adams are in the film and they performed quite well . this film is builds up solidly and it keeps you going . Though I think you must be a horror fan to watch this because of the scenes and the plot . There is one brief sex scene with no nudity that could have been left out and to some people this scene may disappoint someone like Me that's into the film and thinks that stuff ruins a good film but that's it when it comes to that . There is a scene where Adams ' character goes nuts and kills a cat but you can tell its not real . The music is very different but very good . The Unborn in My opinion is a really creepy film that's superbly unpredictable and that's quite strange ! I recommend all horror fans to this movie !
A good 50s dinosaur flick !	This old Dinosaur flick is good with good acting by the cast . Cesar Romero was very good . The only complaint I have about this is the dinosaurs looked good but they seemed pitiful . Anyway if you like a movie where guys are trapped in an unknown place with dinos then watch this film !
A good horror film !	The Evil Dead series is a very dark and yet humorous series directed by Sam Raimi and it stars Bruce Campbell ! The first one is good but takes a bit to get use to . There are no sex scenes but a little nudity and the film is dark and gory . Bruce Campbell looks so different in the film . The first two are good but My favorite of the series is Army of Darkness but I recommend seeing them is order . This great for horror fans !
Die Another Day is an ok Bond but not the best .	This James Bond film was ok . It may not be the best but it does have very good action and effects . The music and and title song were good . The film is some times confusing . It seemed really different with Michael Madsen in it . Its a descent film but its not the absolute best ever . If you need about two hours to go by then watch this movie !
This is a cool animated feature !	This animated feature is no cartoon . I don't think children will understand and plus there is alot blood and sword fighting . I would not recommend this to a child but to a teenager . I am suprised the the film followed this so close but in this film most of the characters look different . This film is nearly flawless with great action for a animated film and it is never boring . I hope all Lord of the Rings get to see this !
Good flick !	This here movie is one of those old drive in type movies which actually its a fair film . The cast is different though and the movie maybe slow at times but this movie does have its moments . Some of the scenes in My opinion was ahead of its time and similar ones wasn't seen until films made later on down the road . The film has solid acting and interactions between the characters . Anatomy of a Psycho is written by the late Don Devlin who is the father of epic movie writer Dean Devlin . The late writer also has a part in this film . I wouldn't consider this film a horror film but more like a crime or a thriller . Sometimes movies like this one are some of the most realistic ones . This is part of a double feature which the other on the tape is called Hatchet for the Honeymoon which is also a good oldie ! The movie is not perfect but like I said it has its moments . Give this movie a chance if you old crime flicks !
The Missing !	The Missing is a very good film . Tommy Lee Jones was very good and I thought Cate Blanchett acted rather well . I was surprised to see Val Kilmer in the film . James Horner's music is good in the film and it has very good direction by Ron Howard ! The film has good action and is emotional . Though its wired on the box it says that what has taken Maggie's daughter is a hooded phantom with shape shifting powers . The evil witch as he is called in the movie does not shape change or is he ever seen with a hood . Is this Ron Howard's best film ? Its up there but not his best . In My opinion Howard's all time greatest is Willow ! Is this the best film Tommy Lee Jones has been in ? In My opinion no it is not ! I really like his roles in The Hunted and the Fugitive . Anyway The Missing is a good film and if you like to see a western with a big mystery then see The Missing ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Fans of Tommy Lee Jones , check out these other great films ! The Package , Under Siege , The Fugitive , Batman Forever , U . S . Marshals , Double Jeopardy , and The Hunted , Fans of Ron Howard check out Willow , Backdraft , Apollo 13 , and Ransom ! Fans of James Horner check out these great movie with scores composed by one of the greatest ! Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan , Star Trek III : The Search for Spock , Krull , Commando , Aliens , Willow , The Land Before Time , and Humanoids from the Deep ( 1980 version ) .
Good film !	Gloria is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Sharon Stone , Jean-Luke Figueroa , Jeremy Northam , Cathy Moriarty , George C . Scott , Mike Starr , Bonnie Bedelia , Barry McEvoy , Don Billett , Jerry Dean , Tony DiBenedetto , Teddy Atlas , Bobby Cannavale , and Sarita Choudhury . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Stone is really excellent in this film . I thought that she performed good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Sharon Stone , Jean-Luke Figueroa , Jeremy Northam , Cathy Moriarty , George C . Scott , Mike Starr , Bonnie Bedelia , Barry McEvoy , Teddy Atlas , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Dramas , Crime , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good one !	This film is really good . It was really neat how they made the mantis that big ! Good acting and effects make this a winner and a quite interesting and entertaining film ! This is a good one to check out especially old 50s flicks !
A different movie that has the late great Chuck Connors !	The film is very different and good at the same time . Chuck Connors was great . Marc Singer was good and I thought he looked a lot like Kevin Bacon in the film . This movie looked at a different way of aliens . If you like Chuck Connors and strange films about aliens then see High Desert Kill !
An entertaining film !	Beowulf is a fair film that has a good cast including Christopher Lambert , Rhona Mitra , Oliver Cotton , Götz Otto , Vincent Hammond , Charles Robinson , Brent Jefferson Lowe , Roger Sloman , Layla Roberts , Robert Willox , Patricia Velasquez , Marcello Cobzarju , Vlad Jipa , and Diana Dumbrava . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good until the nudity and sex scenes appear then it takes away all of the excitement seen previously . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end if there wasn't the sex scene then this would have been a very excellent film . If you like Christopher Lambert , Rhona Mitra , Oliver Cotton , Patricia Velasquez , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Action , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Creepshow !	Creepshow is a good multi segment horror movie ! I don't want to spoil any thing for you but My favorite story of the film is The Crate with Adrienne Barbeau ! It really a awesome story ! If you like horror films especially one with several stories then you'll love the horror fest that is known as Creepshow ! !
The Butterfly Effect !	The Butterfly Effect is a very unique film that has a different cast including Eric Stoltz , Ashton Kutcher , Melora Walters , Amy Smart , Elden Henson , William Lee Scott , Nathaniel DeVeaux , and Ethan Suplee . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Kutcher and Smart are excellent in this film . I thought they were really great together . The mystery is really good and some of it is unbelievable . The movie is filmed very differently . The music is very good . The film is quite exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . The Butterfly Effect is not for everyone . There are some scenes that are unsuitable for the squeamish but it is a decent and thrilling film . If you like Eric Stoltz , Ashton Kutcher , Melora Walters and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and unpredictable films then I recommend this film !
A very different film !	Minor Spoilers The film , directed by Roland Emmerich is a very different film indeed . The dummy was really cool and the film had lots of special effects and good music . I liked it when I saw all of the Star Wars stuff . I really can't explain it any further . If you want a different film to watch I recommend you watch Making Contact !
Different film !	The Contaminated Man is a good film that has a good cast which includes William Hurt , Natascha McElhone , Peter Weller , Katja Woywood , Michael Brandon , Nikolett Barabas , Hendrick Haese , Désirée Nosbusch , Arthur Brauss , and Christopher Cazenove . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Hurt and Weller are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like William Hurt , Natascha McElhone , Peter Weller , Katja Woywood , Michael Brandon , Nikolett Barabas , Hendrick Haese , Désirée Nosbusch , Arthur Brauss , Christopher Cazenove , the rest of the cast in the film , Actio , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The second 007 film ! Robert Shaw's villain was awesome !	The second 007 James bond film has its moments indeed . Robert Shaw's villain was something else . The fight between him and Bond was very realistic and exciting . I was surprised how the film ended . This is a good Bond film !
A Return to Salem's Lot !	A return to Salem's Lot is a fair film that has a good cast which includes Michael Moriarty , Ricky Addison Reed , Samuel Fuller , Andrew Duggan , Evelyn Keyes , Jill Gatsby , June Havoc , Ronee Blakley , James Dixon , David Holbrook , Katja Crosby , and Tara Reid ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Moriarty and Reid are good in this film . The thrills is good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . Good directing by Larry Cohen ! The movie may not be as great as the first one to some people but the film is interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael Moriarty , Ricky Addison Reed , Samuel Fuller , Andrew Duggan , Evelyn Keyes , Jill Gatsby , June Havoc , Ronee Blakley , James Dixon , David Holbrook , Katja Crosby , Tara Reid ! the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like Stephen King then I recommend that you check out the following films ! Creepshow , Creepshow 2 , The original Dead Zone , Salem's Lot , Silver Bullet , Maximum Overdrive , The Running Man , Graveyard Shift , It , The Shining ( mini series ) , Nightflyer , The Green Mile , and Dreamcatcher !
Okay movie !	This film is a fair film . Michael Madsen , Chad McQueen , Melanie Shatner , Teri Thompson , and Larry Thomas are all good in the film . The film has good action scenes . It was different seeing how close McQeen's character was with Thompson's character . There is a brief nudity scene but not much . The musical score by David Wurst and Eric Wurst was good . But I noticed a lot of the score sounded like Jerry's Goldsmith's score from First Blood which is odd . Near the end I laughed when Michael Madsen got a cigarette out and asked his brother if he wanted a smoke and he took it and smoked it . It was funny because it seems Michael Madsen is always smoking a cigarette no matter what his character is . If you like Michael Madsen , Chad McQueen , the other cast members , and want to see a different type terrorist and war film then see Surface to Air !
The Truth About Charlie !	The Truth About Charlie is a fair action film that stars Mark Wahlberg , Tim Robbins , Thandie Newton , Joong-Hoon Park , and Ted Levine ! There are many surprising moments in this picture . The action scenes are done very well . Wahlberg and Newton had good charisma together and they both looked really different . Tim Robbins was good as well . The chase and action scenes were really neat . Jonathan Demme directing is great . The film is very different and being that it takes place in France this makes the film unique . Give this movie a chance because its a very different film and the cast are in some good roles . So anyone who likes Mark Wahlberg , Tim Robbins , Thandie Newton , and Ted Levine give it a chance and check it out !
The Master of Disguise !	The Master of Disguise is a fair comedy film that has a good cast which includes Dana Carvey , Brent Spiner , Jennifer Esposito , Harold Gould , James Brolin , with Erick Avari , Jessica Simpson , Bo Derek , Paula Abdul , and Jesse Ventura ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Carvey is really excellent in this film . I thought that he had an excellent performance ! Gould and Spiner also have good performances ! The comedy is really good . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good as well . The film is quite funny and some of the stuff is just so hilarious . Currently this film has 2 . 8 at 10 stars and is at the bottom 100 : # 57 . In My opinion this movie doesn't deserve it because its just plain silly and there isn't many films like this one . This is a fair film . If you like Dana Carvey , Brent Spiner , Jennifer Esposito , Harold Gould , James Brolin , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedies , and Action then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Action packed film that has Lithgow as the bad guy !	Ricochet is an intense movie that stars Denzel Washington , John Lithgow , and Ice-T ! I really don't want to say much in case you haven't seen it . I will point out a few things though . Lithgow really steals the show here as he puts on a great performance as a very mean villain ! There is one small sex scene and a little nudity in a bard but it really doesn't show it that long . The music is excellent by Alan Silvestri ! I love it when the haunting music starts when Lithgow shows up in some scenes . There are some really intense moments . Jesse Ventura is in the film for a while and boy does his character look different than his others in previous movies . Washington and Ice-t were very good . Anyway it a cool film directed by Russell Mulcahy ! If you haven't seen Ricochet before than now is the time to check it out !
The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes !	The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is one of the most silliest comedies ever in My opinion ! The acting by all of the movie's actors is really something . The noises the Killer Tomatoes make is so funny and it really gives them personalities . The action scenes when the Killer Tomatoes attack are extremely hilarious as well ! The film is very silly and its hilarious and the singing music by is outrageous . Its funny that the people on the front of the box of the movie isn't even in the film . This really is one of the most unusual comedy film and if you like low budget films that are so bad their good and hilarious then I Strongly recommend this film !
Battlefield Earth : A Saga of the Year 3000 !	The following is in My opinions . Truth is which many may not believe it but I like Battlefield : A Saga of the Year 3000 . I really don't know what is wrong with the movie ? John Travolta was very , very good ! He played his role excellently in My opinion ! Barry Pepper , Forest Whitaker , and Kim Coates performed well . I was a bit disappointed that Richard Tyson didn't have a big role because he is an excellent actor ! The music by Elia Cmiral is very good and sometimes quite haunting ! The Psychlos looked neat and in My opinion they spoke like some of the characters in Star Trek ! The movie has good action and good special effects ! I think this movie is very misunderstood . Anyway , if you like alien films and want to watch John Travolta in a very different role then see Battlefield Earth : A Saga of the Year 3000 ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Good and unique comedy !	I'm not big on comedies but Kate and Leopold was pretty good . Good acting by Meg Ryan and a very good by Hugh Jackman and Liev Schreiber was funny ! This movie is really different and if you haven't seen it then check out Kate and Leopold today !
The immortal Jason Voorhees is back ! ! ! !	Minor Spoilers for Big Jason Maniacs . Jason was at it again . More monstrous then ever before Mr . Voorhees causes more destruction in Jason X ! I have seen most of the Friday the 13th movies with the monster Jason in them and most of them are very violent and gory and the second last installment Jason Goes To Hell was really plain silly . This Jason movie however is actually well written and has a bigger budget with some good effects . The battle between Jason and the android was neat . When Jason became Uber-Jason that was really good but near the end when the guy is trying to fool jason in the Crystal Lake area was believe it or not to ME was funny . I thought is was funny because the girls were stupid going in those sleeping bags and what happen ? Jason picked them bags ups and banged them against the trees repeatedly untill they were dead . This to ME is the best Jason film to date because less sex , nudity , a more a variety of Jason kills and and lots of action . All Jason fans check this one out soon !
Good old Werewolf movie !	The film is good but has some slow parts though . The make up is really good and the acting was good . If you like the Universal Monsters movies then check this out soon ! I also recommend Lon Chaney's great movie , The Wolf Man !
A great adaption ! Lara is so cool !	Following the game you wonder if they make a movie of it will it be just as good ? Like will the main character be the same and will it follow the story close ? Well in MY opinion this movie did very good . Angelina Jolie is perfect as Lara Croft . If she isn't who else could have played here ? Lara is such a neat woman , if only more women were like her . This is one good movie . This came in a jammed , action packed blockbuster year of great movies like The Mummy Returns , The Planet Of The Apes 2001 , Jurassic Park / / / and Pearl Harbor .
Very different film for Van Damme !	Jean-Claude Van Damme's latest film In Hell is in My opinion is his most different film to date . He was good as always and its unbelievable that Lawrence Taylor had a big role in this movie . It has some interesting characters and some good action . Some of the stuff is really brutal . I was surprised to see Juan Fernández in such a bizarre role but he played it good ! Robert LaSardo is also in the movie along with the huge Michael Bailey Smith ! In Hell in My opinion is a decent film but not Van Damme's all time best but the movie does give him different things to do here . If you love Van Damme check out In Hell ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you are a big fan of Van Damme then check out these other great films ! Bloodsport ( one of his best ! ) Cyborg ( one of his best ! ) , Kickboxer ( very good ! ) , Lion Heart ( one of his best ! ) , Death Warrant , Universal Soldier ( Terrific film ! ) , Hard Target ( in My opinion his best film ever and to be honest I feel its one of the best movies ever made ! ) , Street Fighter , Sudden Death ( great ! ) , The Quest ( great ! ) , and Double Team ( very good ! ) !
Good sequel to RoboCop !	The last film in the series RoboCop 3 is different than its predecessors as it has violence but it is toned down . The way Robert John Burke is fixed up he does look like the original RoboCop . Nancy Allen has a smaller role in this film and I liked the villain ( s ) but I just wasn't satisfied with the result . RoboCop 3 has a lot of action and good music by Basil Poledouris . If you haven't seen any RoboCop films yet I recommend that you see the series in order . As for big fans of RoboCop I think you'll like the third installment but if you like big time graphic violence then you'll enjoy the original film much more !
Different 50s film !	The film is quite fun to watch and the Mole People are a little on the wired side but nonetheless they looked good especially for the 50s ! If you like the Universal Monsters movies then check this out soon ! I think you'll like it !
A good horror film !	The film is dark and clever and has good acting especially by Brian Cox . The music by Hans Zimmer is great ! The film is hard to understand at times and when the film is over it isn't so keep watch after the end credits ! Its a good film but hard to get and it is great for horror fans !
Mortal Kombat Annihilation !	Minor SpoilersThis sequel is just as good as the first one and I'M not diappointed not one bit the change of actors . I like how James Remar acts as Lord Rayden and the people who acted as Sonya and Jax did a good job but MY favorite is Brian Thompson's Shao Khan . I don't think anyone could have played this part any better . This Mortal Kombat seems to have more action than the 1st one . I saw a couple downsides to this film though . I don't think ardcore fans of Mortal Kombat will be pleased to see Johnny Cage and Sheeva get killed so quickly . Why was this done I'LL never know and Scorpion and Nightwolf only showed up once and why wasn't there more annimalities ? There was some guys missing like Kintaro , Cabal , Stryker , Sector , and some others but other than this Mortal Kombat Annihilation is a very good sequel and a very entertaining action packed film .
High Noon is a classic but in my opinion they picked the wrong star .	High Noon is a good western with a big build up that delivers though my favorite actor Lon Chaney Jr . should have been the star instead Gary Cooper . To me he just didn't fit the part and Chaney did but that's my opinion . Lloyd Bridges was very different with his young age and the music was very good . I'm not big on old westerns but this one is A-OK !
Good sequel !	This film may not be as good as the original Creature film but the movie does have its strange ideas and the film is quite entertaining in My opinion . If you like the original Creature from the Black Lagoon and Universal Monsters then check this out also !
Mission to Mars !	Mission to Mars is very good . I don't know what is wrong with it . It has a different cast , good acting , good music , and effects ! Sure you may not be in love with the ending but its just another theory or at least it in My opinion . If you like Gary Sinise , Tim Robbins , Connie Nielsen , Brian De Palma , sci-fi , and aliens then watch Mission to Mars ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , The Abyss , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Signs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Nowhere to Run !	This Van Damme film is pretty good . I don't agree what the video box says " The best Van Damme movie ! " The film is different and has a good story and Van Damme has a different role here . The movie has Ted Levine as a good villain ! Joss Ackland performed well . Also The film has special appearances by Thomas Rosales Jr . and Sven-Ole Thorsen ! The music by Mark Isham was good and the music in the beginning sounded similar like his other work in Fire in the Sky . Like I said before this is not Van Damme all time greatest but its good and different . If you haven't seen it yet check it out ! Movie Nuttball's Note : I Also recommend Hard Target ( which I believe is Van Damme's best ! ) , Bloodsport , Cyborg , Lionheart , Street Fighter , Sudden Death , Kickboxer , The Quest , Double Team , and Double Impact .
The Omega Man	The Omega Man is a very unusual movie starring Charlton Heston ! Heston , as always was very good ! Anthony Zerbe was good ! The acting by the other cast member is good . Decent directing by Boris Sagal ! The movie is made very well and it has some cool action ! I like how the people look like druids ! It gives the film a scary edge ! The music is good . Though how the movie is and some of the things that happened in the film I am surprised that it was rated PG . Another thing I was surprised about was the ending . Like Heston's other Science Fiction movie the Planet of the Apes , The Omega Man has an unexpected ending that will probably surprise most fans of the genre !
A good sequel .	The film had a great beginning ! The film overall was better than I thought it would be . Busta Rymes was funny and I was surprised what he did in the film . The music and theme was great . I don't mind to have another Halloween film just have Jamie Lee come back ! Honestly though I think they should have just quit with the first two as they are classics !
Frantic !	Frantic is indeed a unique film . Harrison Ford stars in this picture . Its directed quite well by veteran director Roman Polanski . The two actresses that are in this movie Betty Buckley and Emmanuelle Seigner act very well . The film has other familiar faces as well . The music composed by veteran movie score composer Ennio Morricone is really good and matches this flick perfectly ! Its a great score ! The movie is filled with great dialog and acting from its actors in some very interesting scenes and the movie has a powerful first thirty minutes or so . The movie really takes a turn later on . This must be the most different type of film Harrison Ford has ever been in . If you love Harrison Ford then check out Frantic !
Creepshow 2 !	Creepshow 2 is a good multi segment horror movie that is a sequel to Creepshow ! I don't want to spoil any thing for you but My favorite story of the film is The Hitchhiker . It really is a good story and I even found it funny ! If you like horror films especially ones with several stories then you'll love the horror fest that is known as Creepshow 2 ! !
Good comedy !	I am not big on comedies but this was a cool one . Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson were good . There are some funny parts in the film . It is a longer movie closing in on about two hours . If you want to see something funny and like the cast then check out How to lose a guy in 10 Days today !
The third TMNT movie !	This Turtles film is good but the truth is it is My least favorite of the three . Its funny and has action but in My opinion it just doesn't have the same stuff the other two films . If you like the Turtles give it a chance !
Stephen King's Graveyard Shift !	Stephen King's Graveyard shift is a very different but styling film . Brad Dourif's performance was very good as The Exterminator ! The monster is very different and should please most Stephen King , horror , and monster fans .
Red Water !	The movie called Red Water is yet another shark film but it takes things in a different direction . It stars Lou Diamond Phillips , Kristy Swanson , and Coolio . The actors were good in the film and well in My opinion Lou Diamond is always good but Coolio had long part in the film and I found him quite funny believe it or not . The shark looks good but there isn't as much gore in the film compared to other shark films so gore fans maybe disappointed . The music is good and fits the film OK . The movie is OK and will give the viewer something interesting watch . If you want to see a shark movie that stars Lou Diamond Phillips , Kristy Swanson , and Coolio then watch Red Water today ! Movie Nuttball's Note : If you like shark films then I recommend you also see Jaws and Deep Blue Sea !
Good animated feature !	This is a very different animated feature . Its funny in some parts and the animation is good but different . The voices are cool ! The famous Monster Mash song is present as are some other songs and the original Monster Mash song is included after the end credits ! If you would like to watch a different animated feature around Halloween time then this is it !
The Last Samurai !	The Last Samurai is a decent film . I think Tom Cruise was very good in the movie and in fact I think this maybe his best performance . His look was very fitting . All of the actors were also good including William Atherton , Billy Connolly , Scott Wilson , and Tony Goldwyn . The film has some great action but since the film is well of the two hour mark and only a handful of battles this will probably disappoint many fans of the genre . Despite the movie's slowness the end is really incredible . The music by Hans Zimmer was very good . The movie has very good direction by Edward Zwick . Everything looked very realistic like the armor the Samurai's wore was awesome looking ! This film in My opinion is original and does not try to be like other films . If you like Tom Cruise and the cast mentioned above and want to see some great sword fighting action then I strongly recommended you watch The Last Samurai today !
God film !	Godsend is a good and mystery film that has a good cast including Greg Kinnear , Rebecca Romijn-Stamos , Robert De Niro , Cameron Bright , Merwin Mondesir , Sava Drayton , Jake Simons , Elle Downs , Edie Inksetter , Raoul Bhaneja , Jenny Levine , Thomas Chamber , Munro Chambers , Jeff Christensen , and Deborah Odell . The acting by all of these actors is very good , The mystery and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Brian Tyler ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very thrilling film . If you like Greg Kinnear , Rebecca Romijn-Stamos , Robert De Niro , Cameron Bright , Merwin Mondesir , Sava Drayton , Jake Simons , the rest of the cast in the film , Drama , Horror , Action , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
A good sequel to Superman !	Superman III is good but very different . As always Christopher Reeves is great in this as the Man Of Steel . The story is good but I would have stuck with big bad villains instead of what the film is about . This is my least favorite film of the series but its a good film , it just doesn't match up to the two previous movies of Superman !
The Legend of Sleepy Hollow with Jeff Goldblum !	This version with Jeff Goldblum is pretty good . It is one of them films where nothing spectacular happens until the end but the end is worth waiting for ! Some of the scenes are very similar like the cartoon . Goldblum was the perfect choice to play Ichabod Crane as he is tall and thin ! That's all I'll say but if you like The Legend of Sleepy Hollow story and the new film and are able to check this out do so because it is a very rare film and it is a good watch for the mystery and horror fan !
Slaughter in San Francisco !	Slaughter in San Francisco is a different film . Don't let the box of the film or anything fool you because even though the film stars Chuck Norris he is barley in it ! The movie really focuses on Don Wong most of the time . What does Norris do in the film being the crime boss ? He eats , smokes , practices the martial arts on boards and at all different times of the film all of this only takes a couple minutes . At the end he finally fights Don Wong and the star of the film gets beat up ! Also Chuck's voice is dubbed and speaking of dubbed . It seemed like the entire cast was dubbed ! Even the police dog ! The dog was barking while you saw him panting ! It was crazy ! The fighting however is really great and the sound effects used was funny ! One thing I wanted to point out is when Wong's partner gets out of the bar and he and Wong are both drunk they fight each other and the punching sounds sound really loud but it looks like they are just easily throwing punches instead of aggressively doing so and after this they split up and Wong's partner is stumbling around very drunk on the street and several seconds later he is ambushed by a bunch of Norris ' henchmen and he fights like a sober miracle happened ! It was hilarious ! The quality of the movie isn't too good but it really makes the nature of the film like the dubbing and sounds even better ! Fans of Chuck Norris will probably be disappointed due to his small part and the lack of his real voice but fans of martial arts films in general will think of this as a special treat !
Monkey Shines !	Monkey Shines is a good horror movie ! It has very good action from the actors and the monkey was was excellent ! I don't want to spoil it for you if you haven't seen it but its excellent for horror fans ! If you have seen it I also recommend Link and Shakma ! Anyway I recommend Monkey Shines !
The Wishmaster ! Andrew Divoff is awesome ! !	The Wishmaster series is a very different series . In the first Wishmaster Andrew Divoff plays the Djinn excellently ! The film starts off with a bang and it is gory but its not that bad . The film is really a good horror fest ! If you like Michael Myers , Freddy , and Jason , then you'll love the Djinn , the Wishmaster !
Second comment with a little update !	As you know , I am a big believer Cryptozoology ( a study in animals that are not known to science ) and in the Jersey Devil . The 13th Child : The Legend of the Jersey Devil is a different film . I really didn't know if I liked it or not but up to the point when Cliff Robertson makes his appearance it really changes things around ! I could care less about the brief nudity & sex scene . The music was pretty good and scary ! Go to the official web site and listen to it ! I just wanted to say that I liked Peter Jason in the film . He performed well and Cliff Robertson was really , really good and spooky looking to with his beard and long hair ! You get a good look at the monster and was it just Me or what ? When the demon walked and the camera showed the hoof of the beast it was nearly identical to the scene in Legend when Darkness comes through the mirror and also the creature's mouth opened like the Aliens from the Alien saga ! Sure , the story isn't of the real Jersey Devil legend as they ignored it and made up their own but it sure beats the ultra stinker The Last Broadcast and major disappointment that is Wendigo ! If you are a Jersey Devil fan and believer like I am and want to see a film that is the closest to Jersey Devil then see the movie !
New Alcatraz ( Boa ) is a good snake flick !	We rented this film which on the box it is called Boa . Dean Caine acts good and Elizabeth Lackey really looks good in the film . This is a good snake film with some good acting but some noticeable goofy dialouge for a movie but if you think about it and this was real then it wouldn't be that silly . This along with Anaconda is one of the best big size snake movies . The snake looks real and the effect are outstanding . What I really like about this film is the end . All snake movie fans , check this one at soon !
Great Godzilla and monster film !	This Toho monster film is very good . The all star cast of monsters is great but Baragon and Varan have little or no screen time . The newer version has an all new dubbing and digital recording which makes this serious film funny . If you love Godzilla and other Toho monsters then check Destroy All Monsters out today !
Bubba Ho-Tep !	Bubba Ho-Tep is a very , very different film . Bruce Campbell and Ossie Davis arguably put on the best performances of their careers ! Campbell's Elvis is so realistic , so great , so human ! His looks , voice , and accent are almost identical like the real legend ! Ossie Davis's Jack is a cool character also and I thought his performance was a dandy ! Bob Ivy as Bubba Ho-Tep himself was a neat and unique looking mummy ! Brian Tyler's score was very good and fit the film well ! The movie has old fashion humor , great acting , and great conversations with Campbell and Davis ' characters ! If you like Bruce Campbell and are a big of the Evil Dead series especially Army of Darkness and like Ossie Davis then Bubba Ho-Tep is a great film to watch ! If you love mummy films I recommend the following : The Mummy ( 1932 ) , The Mummy ( 1959 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) The Mummy Lives ( 1993 ) , Tale of the Mummy ( 1998 ) , The MuMmy ( 1999 ) The MuMmy Returns ( 2001 ) , The Scorpion King ( 2002 ) , The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) , and The MuMmy : QUEST FOR THE LOST SCROLLS ( The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) VHS movie ) !
A very different alien movie !	What a horror and gore fest this movie is ! Its low budget , has unknown actors , a ton of gore , and takes a serious bite ! I really can't say much else other than these few things . The acting was pretty good and music was different . For the gore there is a lot but some of it just looks like make up and stuff . The creatures or the aliens was just totally disgusting which is what an ultimate alien gore movie needs ! They eat people , they eat anything at all but they love to munch on humans ! The beginning of the film where the meteor falls from the sky was good and the effected worked ! I was really surprised by the ending ! Why is this movie called Return of the Alien's Deadly Spawn ? Is this a sequel to some movie ? Does it have a prequel ? Whatever the reason is it makes the title sound funny ! If you can take very , I mean very gory horror films and haven't see The Return of the Alien's Deadly Spawn then this is a dream come true for you ! I recommend you to watch it if your able to rent it !
This is the one that started it all !	The film is very good and for its time it is very realistic . It has great sets , good acting , good costumes , and everything else . Boris Karloff is great as the Frankenstein monster and his make up is remarkable ! This is the Frankenstein film to see first if you havn't seen it and its sequels . This is the one that started it all !
Very good movie !	This film Detonator was actually very good and it consists of some good actors . Bokeem Woodbine , Randall Batinkoff , Peter Jason , Stan Shaw , Elizabeth Berkley , and the late Denis Forest . The acting by this cast was very good especially by Denis Forest . There has been mentioned this film has scenes from movies . The only one that I noticed was one from The Glimmer Man which was the scenes when the apartment exploded but I doubt that it was from another film . The action which there are several scenes of cars and buildings getting blown up one big shooting scene . The stadium scene was cool and it was a surprise . If you like mad bomber movies and like Bokeem Woodbine , Peter Jason , and the other actors mentioned above then this is another good one watch !
Good Movie !	Dead Silence is a good film with good actors and acting ! The two good performances to talk about are by Vladimir Kulich and Bruce Boxleitner ! Vladimir was really the ultimate villain in this film . I think he could be awesome as other types of bad guys in movies if he is given the chance . Boxleitner also put on a good performance . Kristy Swanson and Vincent Spano were good and one of the kings of horror Tony Todd also was good and actually the acting by the girl was pretty good . The film is handled in a different way . I thought It was unusual and different that this film was filmed in Kansas City , Missouri . Overall I think Dead Silent is fair film and if you are a fan that likes the actors that I mentioned above and want to see them is different film then I recommend that you watch this movie !
Good E . T . like film !	Mac and Me maybe similar like E . T . but I really like the movie . It has many good moments and and is some times funny . The acting is good and the story is fine . and the effects are good . The music by Alan Silvestri is pretty good too . If you are a fan of E . T then I think you'll like Mac and Me !
Good Seagal movie !	I bought this from Blockbuster video cheap and I am glad I did ! As you know I am a huge Steven Seagal fan and everyone of his films is a must watch ! The film is action packed and it is really different for a Seagal film as it was filmed in Warsaw , Poland . It has a unique look and feel to it ! I liked Gary Raymond in the film and Dhobi Oparei was really good . Anna-Louise Plowman was good and I think she sounds like and resembles Rachel Weisz . Seagal didn't fight much like in Ticker but he did have some neat tricks up his sleeve . Well , I really like this one now and if you are a big Steven Seagal fan and didn't like the Foreigner please do give it another try or if you haven't seen the movie do so because it not boring , its action filled and very different plus I recommend it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you are big Steven Seagal fan like Me then I strongly recommend you to check out these other great movies ! Above the Law , Hard to Kill , Marked for Death ( Must see because it great ! ) , Out for Justice ( Great ! ) , Under Siege , On Deadly Ground ( Really good ! ) , Under Siege 2 : Dark Territory ( Very good ! ) , The Glimmer Man ( In My opinion his all time best and one of the greatest films ever ! ) , Fire Down Below ( Excellent ! ) , The Patriot , Ticker , Out for a Kill , Belly of the Beast , and Into the Sun ( Great Sword fighting ) !
Good movie with great action !	One of Brandon Lee's best films is Rapid Fire ! Powers Boothe , Nick Mancuso , Tony Longo , Tzi Ma , Kate Hodge , Al Leong also star ! The action is very good in this movie and in fact in My opinion its some of the neatest fighting action in a movie ! The music is by composer Christopher Young which it is a very different score ! The acting in the film is solid . Brandon Lee did a lot in this film and his fights with Tony Long and Al Leong were very good ! I think that Lee had a potential to be a huge star because this film proves it ! If you like big time action in a film with martial arts and are a fan of Bruce Lee , Chuck Norris , Steven Seagal , Jean Claude Van-Damme , Bolo Yeung , Michel Qissi , and Jet Li and want to see Brandon Lee and Powers Boothe in different performances then Rapid Fire is a good one to watch !
The Ghostbustbusters are back ! ! !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . SpoilersGhostbusters was sure a great movie but its sequel is also pretty good aswell . The story is similar and the special effects are real dandy and the entire cast and writing / directing team is back and so are the ghosts ! You can tell its been a few years since the 1st Ghostbusters was made because this seems just different . The people and how things are in it shows it . Watch out for some appearences by Brian Doyle Murray , Kevin Dunn , Bobby Brown , Kurt Fuller , and Cheech Martin in Ghostbusters II . I just love the villian in Ghostbuster II , Vigo is such a force to see and when the Ghostbusters brings Statue of Liberty , boy is that a sight to see . This sequel to Ghostbusters is a very good film , its as good as the 1st one in MY opinion . If you like Ghostbusters and havn't see Ghostbustbusters II then I seriously recommend you see ASAP !
A very good Baseball film !	The Fan is good movie and Robert De Niro's performance was excellent . Once again Wesley Snipes was in a tough spot but this time as a Baseball player . John Leguizamo was good as always and Benicio Del Toro played his part well but Kurt Fuller and Chris Mulkey in My opinion was't given a lot of time to act their best . The Fan is a fast paces movie and some times it gets really hyper . The Baseball scenes are good and realistic especially when you see the Stadiums . The film delivers a lot and I think most Robert De Niro and Wesley Snipes fans will like The Fan ! Note : As a very big Baseball fan the arguments and incidents that happened between Bobby Rayburn ( Wesley Snipes ) and Juan Primo ( Benicio Del Toro ) reminded Me a lot of the real life Baseball feud between homerun king Barry Bonds and slugger Jeff Kent . In My opinion it is really ashame two great people like them have to dislike each other but that's how people are .
Great Marvel Comic film !	Blade , The Marvel Comics Vampire movie ! It loaded with action , vampire action , and more ! Wesley Snipes , Kris Kristofferson , Stephen Dorff , and Udo Kier were very good ! Snipes looks so cool ! The film has some shocking moments and the end is awesome ! Highly recommended for fans of Snipes , vampires , action , sci-fi , and horror !
A good sequel !	The sequel to Darkman is action packed but lacks the greatness of its prequel . The action scenes are staged good and the acting by the new Darkman played by Arnold Vosloo and the returning Larry Drake are good . The sequel is a good film but I prefer the original first .
Octopus !	Octopus is a fair film that has an okay cast which includes Jay Harrington , Ravil Issyanov , David Beecroft , Carolyn Lowery , Ricco Ross , Jeff Nuttall , George Stanchev , Martin McDougall , Vasil Banov , Nikolai Urumow , Krasimer Vankov , Michail Elenov , Velislaya Stoyanova , Kristina Krasteva , Marianne Stanicheva , and Maya Dimova . The acting by the actors is fairly good . Carolyn Lowery was good . The special effects were good . The thrills are fairly good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed fairly good as well . Same thing goes for the music The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
Great movie ! Christopher Lambert and John Lone are great in the Hunted !	This film is great ! Christopher Lambert is good and John Lone was very good . I love the action and music . Its a bit sad at times . The fights are great and bloody but its nothing you haven't seen before . If you like ninja movies this a great one to see !
A good Clint Eastwood movie !	Blood Work is one Clint Eastwood's best movies ever ! He acted great and the since with him and the shotgun was something ! Jeff Daniels acted good too . Anjelica Houston looked very good and Wanda De Jesus looked stunning ! If you like Clint Eastwood and cop / murder mystery films than look none other than Blood Work !
James Bond number 5 is a cool film !	This one is great ! Donald Pleasence is great ! Lots of non-stop action all throughout the film ! This is one of My favorite Bond films ! I think this is arguably one of the best 007 films to date ! Check out You Only Live Twice !
Good film !	Nothing But Trouble is excellent comedy with a great cast which includes Chevy Chase , Dan Aykroyd , John Candy , Demi Moore , Valri Bromfield , Taylor Negron , Bertila Damas , Brian Doyle-Murray , Peter Aykroyd , and Daniel Baldwin ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Aykroyd has a great performance and Candy is really wonderful in the movie . Chase and Moore are also very good . I think that they were excellent together . The music by Michael Kamen is good . The film is very exciting and its just so hilarious the entire time . This really is good comedy and in My opinion . If you love John Candy , Dan Aykroyd , Chevy Chase , Demi Moore , and the rest of the cast mentioned and great comedies then I Strongly recommend this film ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you love John Candy then I recommend that you see the following films : Summer Rental , Armed and Dangerous , Spaceballs , The Great Outdoors , Who's Harry Crumb ? , and Uncle Buck !
OHMSS is a very good action packed Bond film with a great ending !	George Lazenby played a very good James Bond and its a shame he didn't play the role anymore . OHMSS is a very good 007 film that is filled with lots of realistic fights . I just couldn't believe the ending of the film . I was really surprised . Telly Savales played Blofeld very good but his Blofeld was much different that the late great Donald Plesence's Blofeld . If you like James Bond I think you'll like this one a lot !
The first film to feature the crew of the Next Generation !	This is the first film to feature the crew of the newer Next Generation series . It is a good film and it also features some of the original crew aswell . It has good effects , acting , and music . Its a welcomed addition though some Star Trek fans may find it sad and disappointing .
Pumpkinhead is one scary movie !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Some minor spoilersA long time ago when I first saw this movie I felt really scared and nearly hated Pumpkinhead . I just recently rented the film and saw it for only the second time and I approached Pumpkinhead in a different way and I'M glad I did because I now like Pumpkinhead . The creature is so awesome , he is very tall , has huge long arms with really long claws and long legs and huge feet and a long tail . His face is very neat as well . When the monster was after the punks ( who accidently killed Lance Henriksen's charector's son ) I was rooting for beast to win . The old witch believe it or not is as scary as Pumkinhead is ! The movie is directed by super monster creater Stan Winston and he did a great job ! There is Pumpkinhead 2 but that is nothing like this . Make sure you pick up the McFarlane Movie Maniacs series 2 figure of Pumpkinhead ! Overall Pumkinhead is a scary , well put together classic monster movie that you'll want to see again and again .
Another good 007 film !	The Spy Who Loved Me is an action packed 007 film . Roger Moore was very good as Bond . Barbara Bach and Curd Jürgens were good and Richard Kiel was excellent as Jaws ! The action especially the fight scenes are staged very well ! I recommend all James Bond fans to see The Spy Who Loved Me !
Good Arnold movie	This Arnold is actually quite different than his other films . It has action and a good plot . Arnold was good , James Belushi was funny , Peter Boyle performed good , and Ed O'Ross played a cool bad @ $$ villain and looked really rugged ! The then Larry " now " Laurence Fishburne was good . Gina Gershon was good and played a different role than her one in Out For Justice . Kurt Fuller didn't have a big part but it was really cool to see Sven-Ole Thorsen in yet another Arnold movie and he has a short but awseome fist fight in the beginning with Arnold ! The music by James Horner is very good ! Red Heat is a good movie and if you like the above mention cast and haven't seen it then rent it or even buy it because its worth it ! Other Arnold recommendations : ConanThe Barbarian , Conan The Destroyer , Red Sonja , The Terminator , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day , The Running Man , Raw Deal , Commando , Predator , Total Recall , Kindergarten Cop , Last Action Hero , True Lies , Eraser , Jingle All the Way , Batman and Robin , The 6th Day , and Collateral Damage !
Good film , see it on video soon !	I saw this on video recently and its a good film and Billy Zane is great and in MY opinion this is his best on to date . The film itself could of been in a theatre easily and this film has action in it and it starts out with a bang . Any Billy Zane fan should check this one out !
Spiders !	Spiders is a fair film that has an okay cast which includes Lana Parrilla , Josh Green , Oliver Macready , Nick Swarts , Mark Phelan , David Carpenter , Leslie Harter Zemeckis , Mark Totty , Andrew Stoddard , Jonathan Breck , Steven Sullivan , Corey Klemow , and Simone Levin . The acting by the actors is fairly good . The special effects were good . The thrills are fairly good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed fairly good as well . Same thing goes for the music The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
Good killer primate film !	Shakma is a good film and the Baboon is very mean . He maybe cute and neat looking but I know I wouldn't want him anywhere near Me . Roddy McDowall was very good and Christopher Atkins was good . If you like horror films about killer primates like Link or Monkey Shines then Shakma is one to watch !
Good film !	Tommy Lee Jones and and Ashley Judd are very good in the film . It is really a good mystery and revenge film ! The characters Jones and Judd play are very likable . The film has some intense action and emotional scenes . If you like Jones and Judd then watch Double Jeopardy !
Hilarious !	Choke is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Dennis Hopper , Michael Madsen , Chelsy Reynolds , Bradley Armstrong Donohue , Tamara Cholakian , Robert Baugh , Roy Tate , Paula Stevens , Robert Reiser , Beny Hafkamp , Baron Gerrick , Brian Dill , and Racquel Krupsaw . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Hopper and Madsen are really hilarious together in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Dennis Hopper , Michael Madsen , Chelsy Reynolds , Bradley Armstrong Donohue , Tamara Cholakian , Robert Baugh , Roy Tate , Paula Stevens the rest of the cast in the film , Comedy , Action , Thrillers , Crime , Adventure , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Underworld !	Underworld is an action packed horror movie ! I think Kate Beckinsale was great in the film ! I really liked her look ! Seeing a woman with black pants , black shirt , and a long black jacket that can handle guns and fight with ease is truly an amazing thing to watch ! Bill Nighy played Viktor very well ! He was fixed up neat with all kinds make up ! Kevin Grevioux , who has been in many other films but most recognized in the 2001 version of the Planet of Apes was very good in Underworld ! The music is very good in the film and matches its dark nature ! The film has a very dark nature and I like the story where Vampires and Lycanthropes fight each other ! The special effects look good especially the scene with the moon ! Underworld is a decent horror film that takes the two legends of Vampires and Werewolves to a different stage . If you like Kate Beckinsale , these two different factions of monsters , horror , and action then I recommend you see Underworld !
The Battle For Endor !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Back in the early 80s there were two good movies about the the Ewoks from Star Wars : Return of the Jedi . Both film have the spirit of the Star Wars film in MY opinion and especialy ROTJ . Both films are sad in a way but they are never boring and both have good special effects and the whole nine . Both film has some great music aswell ! Seeing Wilford Brimley in this film is a treat . The begging is quite sad but this feature is never boring and like the other its action packed . Fans of Brimley and Star Wars should see this !
Stallone & Russell !	Tango & Cash is a very good 1980s action film that stars Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell ! Yes , That's right two great action stars together in a movie ! They both act together very well in this movie ! I was thrilled to see them together ! Its a treat in My opinion ! Teri Hatcher , Jack Palance , Brion James , James Hong , and Marc Alaimo all put on very good performances . Stallone , Russell , Palance , and James all looked really neat ! Hatcher also looked amazingly good ! There are so many familiar faces that are in this movie in brief roles and they are Philip Tan , Michael J . Pollard , Robert Z'Dar , Lewis Arquette , Edward Bunker , Michael Jeter , Clint Howard , Elizabeth Sung , Roy Brocksmith , Billy Blanks , Richard L . Duran , Saveli Kramarov , Geoffrey Lewis , Salvador Espinoza , Andre Rosey Brown , and Phil Rubenstein ! The acting like I said is good . There is a bit of comedy here as well that is funny . The movie's action is top notch ! There are some really explosive action scenes , and story is good and its always interesting in My opinion . The music by Harold Faltermeyer was good and fit the film nicely . The direction by Andrei Konchalovsky and Albert Magnoli is decent . Tango & Cash is a fine cop movie to watch and if you like Stallone , Russell , Palance , Hatcher , and any of the actors mentioned above then I strongly recommend you watch this movie ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The following is something I noticed that some viewers may not know ! Isn't it strange that Kurt Russell and James Hong are together again in a movie ? Before they were battling it out in Big Trouble in Little China ! Brion James and Saveli Kramarov is in this film together and they were also in Armed and Dangerous . Same thing with Roy Brocksmith and Marc Alaimo because they were in Total Recall . Its just something interesting I noticed !
Africa Screams with Abbott , Costello , Howard , & Besser !	This Abbott and Costello movie is decent . The duo is always great ! The Baer brothers were good ! What really makes this film interesting is the fact that two members of the legendary Three Stooges , ( who were not with each other at the time mind you ) Shemp Howard and Joe Besser are in the movie together ! Joe has bigger part than Shemp does and I was disappointed about this because Shemp was an incredibly talented individual ! The music was very good ! Africa Screams is funny film and if you wanted to see Abbott and Costello meet two of the Stooges & and to see how they are in Africa then see Africa Screams !
A good 007 film with good action !	The Man With The Golden Gun is very good 007 film . Moore was good , Christopher Lee was excellent as Francisco Scaramanga ! I was glad to see Clifton James return as Sheriff J . W . Pepper ! Hervé Villechaize was very good as Nick Nack . I think he is very funny . This 007 film is good and I recommend James Bond fans to see it !
Abbott and Costello Go to Mars !	This Abbott and Costello movie is good . The duo is always good ! Mari Blanchard was good . The movie is funny and has some good moments ! The spaceship effects were really cool ! Good music ! Look for Stanley Blystone , Jean Willes , and Dudley Dickerson who were in many Three Stooges shorts ! If you like Abbott and Costello see Abbott and Costello go to Mars !
Deal of the Century !	Deal of the Century is a serious action comedy that stars Chevy Chase , Sigourney Weaver , Gregory Hines , Vince Edwards , Richard Libertini , Bradford English , and Charles Levin ! There are many surprising moments in this picture . The action scenes are done very well . Chase and Weaver had good charisma together and they both looked really different . Hines was good as well . The special effects were really neat . William Friedkin's directing is great . I really can't see what is wrong with the movie . Give this movie a chance because its a very different film and the cast are in serious roles . So anyone who likes Chevy Chase , Sigourney Weaver , and Gregory Hines give it a chance and check it out !
Good team work by Candy and Pryor !	Brewster's Millions is a good comedy ! I like the baseball subject ! Richard Pryor and John Candy were really good in the film ! Jerry Orbach , Pat Hingle , Rick Moranis and the rest of the cast were good ! I don't want to tell to much about it but if you like comedies then check it out ! This is a hard film to obtain and if you see it somewhere get it ! You won't be disappointed ! Movie Nuttball's note : If you like John Candy and haven't see his other great and classic movies then I recommend that you see Summer Rental , Armed and Dangerous , Spaceballs , Who's Harry Crumb , Uncle Buck , and in an excellent cameo , Home Alone !
Good movie !	Al Pacino , Robin Williams , and Hilary Swank was very good ! The action scenes were good ! This film is entertaining and it was cool to see the scenery like that ! If you like the above mentioned cast then check it out for a good time !
Q : The Winged Serpent !	Q : The Winged Serpent is a very different film ! The cast was very good ! Larry Cohen's direction was good ! The music was good ! The monster was excellent looking and looked very realistic ! I highly recommend Q : The Winged Serpent !
I bought Demonicus for 3 bucks at Hollywood Video ! ! !	When I was over at Hollywood video I looked through their clearance out movies and there was DEMONICUS for five buckaroos plus fifty percent off ! I saw it only once before and couldn't pass up this great deal ! The second viewing was much better than the first . The box is so cool and the music is very good . If you haven't seen Demonicus yet I recommend that you do or if you rented and hated Demonicus do give it another chance as another viewing of it may change your mind . If you seen a copy at Hollywood Video for the price I got it for don't pass it up as it is a great deal ! Demonicus is well a very different but entertaining movie . Believe it or not is like watching a interactive video game with out playing it ! It has very low budget and actors I'M sure that nobody is familiar with . We began the the video game uh I mean film with a guy and a woman some where in Italy and there is a cave that actually looks like a rail road / train track tunnel and she says don't go in there and what does he do ? The normal stuff ! HE DIDN'T LISTEN TO HER ! He goes in there and find lots of gladiator artifacts and armor and a almost perfectly preserved body of a legendary gladiator named Tyrannous ! Where did the chair come from that Tyrannous was sitting on and how did his body stay so good and where did the Cauldron Pot come from ? So every cave is complete with a Caultron Pot ? Tyrannous is wearing his armor , helmet , and has a weapon or two . He does the dumbest thing a person could do , he puts on the helmet and is taken over by the spirit of Tyrannous ! From there he walks around just killing all of the campers near by to bring back the real Tyrannous . Now , I said before its like a video game . Its hard to explain but it just feels like it . The music even sounds like video games . The acting is really terrible . The actors say things like why is he doing this , oh he was nuts already and Fine since he's nuts i'm going home ! Also the movie also has some major errors like a guy is running and trying to find his girlfriend in the night and is still running in the day time still searching for her with out taking a break ! This movie has some errors but it isn't a classic like Werewolf but it is entertaining if you like really low budget error prone movies then you better see Demonicus !
Good movie !	Time Walker isn't really a bad movie at all . I really liked the very beginning with the planets and how the prolog was presented . It was a different mummy film with a different story . The effects were really good especially the crystals in the mummy / alien's device . The music by Richard Band was very good . I really don't know why people dislike this film . The from of the video box is really cool and the film is from Charter Entertainment but the box itself looks very much like CBS Fox box . If you are able to find Time Walker and haven't seen it before then get it because its out of print and its worth it in My opinion ! Check it out !
Great Marvel Comic film !	Blade , The Marvel Comics Vampire movie sequel ! It loaded with action , vampire action , and more ! Wesley Snipes , Kris Kristofferson , and Ron Perlman were very good ! Snipes looks so cool here ! The film has some shocking moments and the end is really awesome ! Highly recommended for fans of Snipes , vampires , action , sci-fi , and horror !
Its a good film .	The first Swamp Thing is an ok film but I really recommend the sequel more . Why ? Because the first has action but to me its just a normalmonster film that is sad where the sequel ( The Return of Swamp Thing ) is more of a action / super hero film . Adrienne Barbeau is as beautiful as ever and Louis Jourdan and Dick Durock are good but I like their performances better in the sequel . Of course this Swamp Thing is good in many ways for example : the ending but I just like the sequel a lot more .
Out of Time	Out of time is pretty good film . Denzel Washington , Eva Mendes , John Billingsley , Alex Carter were good but Dean Cain was really good ! The music by Graeme Revell good ! The film is very suspenseful ! If you like crime thrillers watch Out of Time today !
A very different Shark film !	Minor spoilersThis shark film about the Megalodon is a different one . It has good acting , a good story , and the giant shark looked pretty real and it was amazing to see how big the shark was in the movie . I was very surprised y the ending . If you like big shark films or movies about legendary creatures then give Shark Hunter a look . Movie Nuttball's Note : I believe in the Carcharodon Megalodon and I believe that this huge species of shark may still exist today . Though the Megalodon I believe is nothing more than a giant Great White Shark . If it still lives I think the gigantic species is around Australia and some other places in very deep waters . One day I believe the Megalodon will be discovered soon and the world won't believe how massive these shark are !
They Live !	They Live is good movie . I thought Roddy Piper was really good . Keith David , Meg Foster , Peter Jason , and George ' Buck ' Flower was also good . Look for Al Leong ! The film is a clever one . Good music . They fight between Piper and David was excellent ! If you like The actors mentioned above and John Carpenter then Watch They Live ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
The Mummy Lives is quite a different mummy film but Tony Curtis delivers !	The Mummy Lives is a good mummy film . It is very different from all the rest . I was very surprised to see the legendary Tony Curtis in a film such as this one . He put on a good performance . The introduction of the film is very interesting with the star and the figures . The woman talking through the prolog sounded quite serious ! The music is pretty good . The sets and costumes look like the real thing . I am a very big fan of mummy films and this one is pretty good to watch if you like the other mummy films but like I said its quite different but in a good way ! NOTES : The picture on front of the box of the film isn't even in the film and on the back of the Tony Curtis ' Mummy is seen that looks like the grim reaper or some evil being . This look of course has excellent make up but is only seen for a brief second in the film if seen at all : ( The box looks exactly like a Warner Brothers box but it is from Cannon Video .
Runaway Jury !	Runaway Jury is a pretty good film . It has an unusual and interesting all star cast ! This cast includes Gene Hackman , Rachel Weisz , Dustin Hoffman , and John Cusack ! Other cast members include Cliff Curtis , Bruce Davidson , Luis Guzman , Orlando Jones , Dylan McDermott , Gerry Bamman , Leland Orser , Jeremy Piven , Bruce McGill , Joanna Going , Jennifer Beals , Nick Searcy , and Bill Nunn ! All of the actors and actresses were very good ! I think Gene Hackman and Rachel Weisz played the highlight characters especially Weisz ! Really she had the big part in the movie but Hackman is as ruthless as he has ever been in a film ! Fantastic acting by one of the best ! The music is by one of My favorite composers Christopher Young . His score is much different than his others . The movie itself in intense at times and the action scene with Rachel Weisz was a surprise ! Its a fair movie but if you like thrilling drama films then I recommended you watch Runaway Jury Today !
Good film !	Bay Coven or Bay Cove is a good film that has a good cast includes Pamela Sue Martin , Tim Matheson , Barbara Billingsley , Jeff Conaway , Woody Harrelson , Susan Ruttan , James Sikking , Inga Swenson , and Nigel Bennett . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Martin is really good in this film . Mathesson is good and Harrelson is very good . I thought The mystery is good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Pamela Sue Martin , Tim Matheson , Barbara Billingsley , Jeff Conaway , Woody Harrelson , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Death Wish !	The Death Wish films are some great movies . Charles Bronson is very good in them all especially the first and the third of the franchise . The first three are in My opinion the best in Death Wish series . In My opinion the films are not for young children . Its the trilogy directed by Michael Winner . The movies are packed with very realistic graphic violence , great music , good by acting the actors , and good directing . The first one is the one that started it all ! Charles Bronson is great in the film ! His emotions are very believable ! Jeff Goldblum believe it or not is in the film and has a big part ! He looks like a very young man . If you like Charles Bronson and want to see him bust up some punks and like to see great revenge films with great action then watch Death Wish !
Great but crazy movie : )	This movie is very funny ! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are really good in it ! Lauren Holly is very good and ! I don't want to go any further and spoil it but if you like the cast mentioned and silly and / or insane movies then check it out and be sure to watch the sequel / prequel when it hits the theatres !
Another good Tim Burton film !	This film by Tim Burton maybe a little crazy but I like it ! The cast is great , the acting is good , the action is good , the effects are great , and the music by Danny Elfman is great for the film and boy what an intro ! Just that is worth watching this film ! If you like Burton , Jack Nicholson , action , some comedy , and alien films then this is the perfect one for you !
The first 007 film !	The first Bond film Dr . No is a good film . It has some slow parts but good acting and action scenes and great villain ! If you haven't seen any James Bond films and want to see this one first as this is the one that started the huge series !
This is what Wendigo should have been !	This film is really different and it really wasn't disappointing . I feel this what Wendigo should have been ! Any way Lance Hendrickson was very good and the other cast members also acted very well . The Bigfoot looked very different but in a neat way . Being someone who believes in Cryptozoology it was cool to know a character in a film that talks about it and such and it was awesome to watch another mystery beast film ! I hope they keep em comin ! I am not sure why this film is called The Untold because the video I seen is simply called Sasquatch . Well , the film is entertaining and if you like Lance " Bishop " Henrickson , action , horror , thrills , and mysterious hidden animals and / or Cryptozoology like Me then go to your nearest video store and rent it !
Good sequel !	The sequel crazier than the prequel and has some really insane comedy but I can't help but laugh at it : ) Jim Carrey was very good and Bob Gunton was good . This film is arguably funnier than the original . I don't spoil it for you so if you like the cast I mentioned and really silly stuff and a very entertaining movie then watch Ace Ventura : Pet Detective !
Good movie !	This film is really good and its cool . The introduction is good . The music is good . Cornel Wilde , Scott Glenn , and the rest of the cast performed well . Stan Winston's Gargoyles are really neat and the film has a good ending . If you like the above mentioned names , Gargoyles , and horror films then check this movie today !
Excellent Steven Seagal film !	This is an excellent Steven Seagal film ! Kelly Le Brock and Branscombe Richmond were good . The fighting scenes are incredible . If you like Steven Seagal , action , and fighting films then look no further because Hard to Kill is a good one !
Part of a great trilogy !	Michael Gross returns and some of the original cast members from the first film do aswell . In my opinion the film isn't as spooky or scary as the other two prequels but is it a good film and I recommend it for the people who enjoyed the other two Tremors in this great trilogy and horror and science fiction films fans alike !
A different crocodile film !	This monster crocodile film is pretty good . If you can find it would be a good collector's video because its a hard one to obtain . If you find it get it ! Its not boring , it has some good scenes and a different ending and should satisfy most horror fans !
Good horror film !	28 Days is really a strange movie . Its good though and it has some good acting from its actors including Brendan Gleeson , Cillian Murphy , Naomie Harris , and Christopher Eccleston . The film has some good music and fits the film well . Whenever the infected people or zombies attack is really amazing . They come running fast like mad men shown with awesome Gladiator type camera shots . Whenever the killers are on screen get ready for a tasty horror feast ! There is one scene in the film near the end that I haven't seen to many of and the other one that comes to mind is in Marked for Death starring Steven Seagal . Speaking of the end , The VHS version has an alternate ending after the end credits . 28 Days is good film and its quite different to watch and isn't too gory but isn't without it either so for horror and zombie fans , I strongly recommend this film !
Good horror movie !	This film is very good . Look for a very young Sam Rockwell . The film is scary whether you like clowns are not . I don't think the new viewer will be bored because its an interesting film and a different one at that so if you got time check Clownhouse out !
A very different dinosaur film !	The film is very good and entertaining . It has good acting but the dinosaurs just resemble I guess you could say maximized current day lizard with little costumes on like spikes , plates , horns and such and the big roars that come out of their mouths are really loud . At the end when the little egg hatches and the little lizard comes out and makes that little cry I think that is so sad and I have tears in My eyes . I don't know why but I always have . Anyway if you like a movie where guys are trapped in an unknown place with dinos then watch this film !
The Eliminators is such a good movie , please come back on video	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Some minor spoilersI saw this movie only a couple times in the past but those two times I was grateful because I didn't know what I was in store for . I just love the cyborg guy and his arch rival . The special effects is some of the coolest I have ever seen . I loved it when Roy Dotrice shot the lightning bolts out of his hands and the woman , Bayou Betty , wow is she manly , boy she is something in it . I just loved the big boat chase in this film . I wish I could buy this movie this very minute but Hopefully it'll be on video very soon . I won't pass it up and I hope you don't either .
Cool spooky film !	This film is great ! Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow is a very dark film . The cast is good and I especially like Christopher Walken as the Headless Horseman ! Johnny Depp Christina Ricci was good . Christopher Lee's short part was good and he performed very well ! Alun Armstrong , Ian McDiarmid , and Michael Gough were all good . The fights were great and yes the film is spooky ! If you haven't seen Sleepy Hollow is a good horror film to check out !
Good Looeny Tunes movie !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most unique Three Stooges shorts is Scrambled Brains . In this short are Babe London , Emil Sitka , Vernon Dent , and Royce Milne . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent and Sitka . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
Arguably the best in the trilogy !	This film is great with good action and acting ! Bruce Willis , Samuel Jackson , and Jeremy Irons is all very good in this film ! Look for Tony Halme who was Ludvig Borga in the WWF ( WWE ) . You never know what is going to happen next in this film ! The music by Michael Kamen is good . If you like terrorist films with tons of action then this film is for you !
Good older horror movie !	The Alligator People is really a good horror movie that doesn't disappoint ! My favorite actor Lon Chaney jr . played a very good villain with a cool accent ! His unpredictable southern character sports a hook for and old town dirty look ! His performance was very good ! As for the film it keeps you going for some time and with out spoiling it the end should satisfy most fans of the genre ! Check it out !
Alligator II : The Mutaion !	Alligator II : The Mutation is a good film that has a good cast which includes Joseph Bologna , Dee Wallace-Stone , Richard Lynch , Woody Brown , Holly Gagnier , Bill Daily , Steve Railsback , Brock Peters , Tim Eyster , Voyo Goric , Buckley Norris , Julian Reyes , Deborah White , Bill Anderson , Chavo Guerrero Sr , Evelyn Guerrero , Tim Hayes , Kane Hodder , and Thomas Rosales Jr . ! The acting by the actors good . Lych and Wallace-Stone was good . The special effects were good . The thrills are good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed good as well . Same thing goes for the music . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
Romancing the Stone is a classic !	Romancing the Stone is a classic film that has a great cast including Michael Douglas , Kathleen Turner , Danny DeVito , Zack Norman , Alfonso Arau , Manuel Ojeda , Holland Taylor , Mary Ellen Trainor , Kymberly Herrin , and Ron Silver ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Douglas is really excellent and hilarious in this film . I thought that his performance was great . Turner , Devito , and Norman were also very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Alan Silvestri . Great direction by Robert Zemeckis ! The film is really magical and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a classic and thrilling film . If you like Michael Douglas , Kathleen Turner , Danny DeVito , Zack Norman , Alfonso Arau , Manuel Ojeda , Mary Ellen Trainor , Kymberly Herrin , Ron Silver , the rest of the cast in the film , Alan Silvestri's great score and Robert Zemeckis great directing , Action , Adventure , Family , Thrillers , Comedy , Romance , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Batman Begins is one heck of a great film ! Its cool with an excellent cast and a astounding score !	It was on the 4th of July , 2005 I saw Batman Begins ! It was an awesome experience to see the Dark Knight on the big screen once again ! I have been anticipating this film and it did not disappoint . The movie is solid with an outstandingly large and famous cast , great acting , super storytelling and character development , excellent action and effects , a tremendous musical score , and great directing ! There are many points in the film I want to talk about including the cast and characters , composers , and scenes . The commentary is below . Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne / Batman : Bale has a great performance . He is younger than Michael Keaton but he pulls off the charisma Wanye needs . He is nearly identical as Keaton when it comes to the putting on the suit . He has very good movement that makes you believe he is the Batman ! His voice fits the character really well . I know that there are people who think that Keaton IS Batman . In My opinion Bale comes very close being number one . Michael Caine as Alfred : In My opinion Caine was the perfect choice to play the famous butler . Caine provides very good acting here . In fact its some the best I have ever seen him do ! Liam Neeson as Henri Ducard : Arguably his greatest role and greatest performance Neeson is terrific in this film and literally steals the show ! He is one of My favorite actors of all time and it was just awesome to see him as a big time villain ! I love the way he looks . His goatee , hair style , clothing , fighting ability , everything ! If you are a fan of his and loved how he performed in Star Wars : Episode I - The Phantom Menace then you WILL LOVE HIM HERE ! Katie Holmes as Rachel Dawes : I was very surprised by this actress . I have read many , many comments saying how weak , dull , and boring her performance is . Well I didn't see any of that ! I thought that she was very good and not to mention looked the same . Her character IS A WOMAN and she is very convincing as A WOMAN ! I like female characters like this ! Holmes is a very fine actress and I hope to see her in many other great action films in the future ! Gary Oldman as Lt . Jim Gordan : He is excellent as Gordan . A very likable character indeed . I like the way he is and looks . Another top notch performance by Oldman ! Cillian Murphy as Dr . Jonathan Crane / Scarecrow : He is something else . Just by looking at him I thought that he was insane ! The Scarecrow character is good and scary . Tom Wilkinson as Carmine ' The Roman ' Falcone : One of the most talented actors performs greatly as the big time mobster . Wilkinson's British accent is gone and a very good Italian accent has taken its place for his role . I was really anxious to see how he would perform as someone of this stature in a comic book feature film and in My book he was great ! Morgan Freeman : Freeman is a dandy charmer here ! Great acting as always . Rutger Hauer as Earle : Hauer was very good . He's not his usual action hero self here as he is a business executive . Ken Watanabe as Ra's Al Ghul : Great performance here . He makes his character mysterious and fearful at the same time . He has an awesome sword fight and shows you why he's a master ! Mark Boone Junior as Flass : A good performance by this big man ! Linus Roache as Thomas Wayne : In a brief performance he is very good . Musical Score by Hans Zimmer & James Newton Howard : This is an extraordinary score . It fits so perfectly in it and it is completely different than the music that Danny Elfman and Elliot Goldenthal composed for the previous Batman entries . I love those scores but this one is excellent as well . Its just so dynamic and exciting ! If there are more Batman films which I hope there will be I hope that they will be chosen to score again and again ! Direction by Christopher Nolan : He really put it together here . The fight scenes and everything is just marvelous . I hope that he directs more Batman movies in the future because I like his direction . Fight Scenes : People are talking about how bad the fight scenes are . I liked ' em ! They were very exciting and some of them were long too like the Wayne vs . Ducard scenes . I loved those ! The street chase was really cool with all of the city lights and such . So there you have it ! I loved the film . There many , many things I love about it . The things above like cast , music and the fight scenes are just a few . I like the fact that all of the cast members have a decent amount of time on screen . I saw Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith twice and I adore that movie and I just love this one ! People , we have a very exciting movie year in 2005 and so far I am pleased and you should be too ! I want more of the Batman movies because I love the people in this film and there are limitless possibilities that can happen in them ! I would love to see the return of the Scarecrow ! Bring fourth the Joker , Man-Bat , Killer Croc , The Huntress , Harley Quinn , the Spoiler , Cain , Egg Head , Mad Hatter , and the rest of the gang to the big screen ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Before the movie started the trailers of War of the Worlds and The Island were shown and boy do they look great ! Bring on more DC films like more Batman , Superman Returns , Wonder Woman , The Justice League of America , The Legion , The Green Arrow , Justice Society of America , The Death and the Return of Superman , I could go on ! I want DC & Marvel to come out with a whole bunch of films including Crossovers ! It'll be so awesome !
Awesome animated series !	I am a big fan of the Darkstalkers . If anyone wanted an alternate source for the title other than the video game then the animated series is your great alternative ! Most of the classic characters are in it ! Demitri Maximov , Morrigan Aensland , Lord Raptor , Donovan , Bishamon , Pyron , Hsien-Ho , Lei-Lei , and Felicia . I have only seen Anakaris , Jon Talbain , Sasquatch , Victor Von Gerdenheim , and Aulbath in the credits so far . In My opinion all of the characters look exactly like they do in the video game . The male characters look super and the female fighters look absolutely gorgeous ! The animation is so crisp and clean ! This film may not be suitable for youngsters because of the minor language such as " hell " and " damn " and blood coming from the characters ' wounds . There is much violence in this animated series and I'm quite surprised by it . Another thing was the music . Really awesome music through out the entire thing ! The characters are really great . The voices were chosen wisely and fit the characters well . Demitri is an awesome character . His voice is just excellent . He reminded Me of Dwight Renfield in Stephen King's Night Flier . Moorigan is just cool . She has got a great personality . Lord Raptor is just totally rad man ! Pyron also has great voice and he is also awesome ! It was like this was a real movie . The fighting in the animated series is simply amazing and I really liked how realistic everything was like the sky and the moon ! If you like Darkstalkers and the Darkstalkers games , and the Street Fighter II video games and animated films then go to Amazon . com and purchase this today ! Strongly recommended !
Good film !	Basic is a very different film that has a good cast which includes John Travolta , Connie Nielsen , Samuel L . Jackson , Timothy Daly , Giovanni Ribisi , Brian Van Holt , Taye Diggs , and Harry Connick Jr . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Baldwin is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The mystery is really good and some of it is unbelievable . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Klaus Badelt . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the last moment . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like John Travolta , Connie Nielsen , Samuel L . Jackson , and the rest of the cast in the film , action thrillers , dramas , and interesting films then I recommend this film !
Excellent film ! ! !	This film is very good and it has tons of action ! Wesley Snipes is good as always and Bruce Payne performed as the ultimate villain ! What a bad guy ! His fellow colleagues are very convincing and I like Elizabeth Hurley in the film as part of his team ! Tom Sizemore was good . The music was very good and it was very 80s like which was very cool ! If you like terrorist films on air planes and like Wesley Snipes and especially Bruce Payne then see Passenger 57 !
Arguably the best of the trilogy !	Mild SpoilersIndiana Jones trilogy , from the masters George Lucas and Steven Spielberg comes a great action packed series of films that takes place in the early 1900s . Indiana Jones is really a hero , he goes from from country to country to find a special artifact and / or place and he usualy succeeds ! This trilogy reminds ME alot of Star Wars . These are truly some of the best films ever . The Last Crusade is arguably the best of the trilogy with the addtion of Sean Connery as Indiana's father . Connery is quite funny in this movie . The story is fantastic and end is some what shocking . This is a great film and and doesn't fail at all .
Cool alien film !	The film is a very good alien thriller ! There is cool looking aliens , good acting by the cast especially by Karen Black , awesome effects , and the film is creepy and when you think about it the film can be scary . The very good music in the film by the great composer Christopher Young is chilling and the directing by Tobe Hopper is very good . Invaders from Mars is an 80s film that delivers the goods ! If you haven't seen it yet and are able to rent it then do it because you won't be disappointed !
Alligator	Alligator is a good film that has a good cast which includes Robert Forster , Robin Riker , Michael V . Gazzo , Dean Jagger , Sydney Lassick , Jack Carter , Perry Lang , Henry Silva , Bart Braverman , John Lisbon Wood , James Ingersoll , Robert Doyle , Patti Jerome , and Angel Tompkins . The acting by the actors is good . Forster and Silva was good . The special effects were good . The thrills are good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed Good as well . Same thing goes for the music . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
One of the best in the series !	In the theatre years ago when I saw this film I thought gosh this is really different for a Star Trek film . It had so much suspense and conspiracy , and so much mystery that this was one of the best films in the collection . The acting is great , the action and the effect are superb , and the music is very good ! I recommend this to all Star Trek and sci-fi film fans !
Great movie ! Jon Voight is excellent !	This film , Anaconda is a very good film in My opinion . The cast is different and they all acted well which this cast includes Jon Voight , Eric Stoltz , Jennifer Lopez , Ice Cube , Jonathan Hyde , Owen Wilson , and Kari Wuhrer . As I said all of the actors are good but Voight's Paul Sarone is one of the coolest and meanest I have ever seen and he is one of My favorite villains in a movie . Those looks he gets on his face are something else ! He is enough to scare a super hero ! I think that this is Voight's best role ! The music by Randy Edelman is in My opinion one of the best musical scores for a movie . The snakes look very realistic and the directing by Luis Llosa is very good . I have always like this film because of its great acting by Jon Voight , the special effects , great musical score , and lots of excitement ! If you like Jon Voight , J . Lo , giant snake movies then I strongly recommend Anaconda !
good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Excellent feature !	This special program is located on the special Restored edition of Halloween after the excellent movie starring Donald Pleasence and Jamie Lee Curtis ! Featuring in interviews in this brief making of the film Halloween are Dee Snider , Debra Hill , John Carpenter , Jamie Lee Curtis , Nick Castle , P . J . Soles , Tommy Lee Wallace , Dean Cundey , Irwin Yablans , Joseph Wolf , Brian Andrews , and Moustapha Akkad . There are some amazing parts and facts of this feature . The Director and Composer John Carpenter and Co-Producer Debra Hill has a good amount of screen time on this feature so if you are one of their fans then this'll be good for you to check out ! I thought that this was a great feature I strongly recommend the classic and thrilling film !
Great comedy !	This movie is really has some really insane comedy but I can't help but laugh at it : ) Jim Carrey was very good and Courtney Cox was really good . I was very surprised about the performance by Sean Young ! Randall ' Tex ' Cobb , Tiny Ron , Udo Kier , and Tone Loc were good . I don't spoil it for you so if you like the cast I mentioned and really silly stuff and a very entertaining movie then watch Ace Ventura : Pet Detective !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a great Three Stooges short and it has become one of My favorites ! I just love it when Joe Palma talks to Cy Schindell and says about the corpse moving and Schindell says something like sure if he'd have wings he'd fly away , maybe I should ask if he is dead and Curly replies and Schindell says to Palma that see he told you himself that he was dead and then they realize what has just happened . Its hilarious ! Great one from beginning to end !
House II - The Second Story is a great sequel !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Spoiler WarningSequels sometimes doesn't match their prequels but this one sure does . Of course it really doesn't follow the first one but that doesn't matter to ME . The beginning is so creepy when first see Tex . Jesse jr . moves in his deceased parents ' house and his friend stays with him . They see in a old book that there is an old aztec crystal skull in his Grandfather's grave in the cemetary near by . They go and dig it up and we find out he isn't dead yet . He says to them they can call him Gramps . He moves in the house and puts the skull on top of the fire place . Gramps warns Jesse and and his friend that they must protect it from the forces of evil . They get to know each other become and family and Gramps tells that he fought Tex long ago and that he has been in the before . Through out the film we see acient aztec warriors , dinosaurs , the old west and among other time periods . Its really a good movie . Its one of MY favorites . This has 2 more sequels and a prequel but the first two is MY favorite ones . If you like a movie about haunted houses that have lot of time travelling then is for you !
Midnight Run !	Midnight Run is a good action comedy film that has a great cast which includes Robert De Niro , Charles Grodin , Yaphet Kotto , John Ashton , Dennis Farina , Joe Pantoliano , Richard Foronjy , Tony Darvo , Robert Miranda , and Philip Baker Hall . The acting by all of these actors is very good . De Niro is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The action is really good and some of it is incredible . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good and unusual by Danny Elfman . The film is very interesting and exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the last moment . This is a very good and funny film . If you like Robert De Niro , Charles Grodin , Yaphet Kotto , Dennis Farina , Joe Pantoliano , and the rest of the cast in the film , Action Comedies , and interesting films then I recommend this film !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Shemp is none other than Bedlam in Paradise ! All appearing in this short are Philip Van Zandt , Vernon Dent , Sylvia Lewis , Symona Boniface , Judy Malcolm , Sam McDaniel , Marti Shelton , and Victor Travers . Van Zandt has a great performance and so does lewis . There are so many funny parts here . This is a very hilarious short . There is another similar Three Stooges short like this one called Heavenly Daze and I recommend both !
Great movie !	This film is very good . The late , great Raul Julia , Anjelica Huston , and Christopher Lloyd performed well . Even though there is a sequel this film is one of a kind . In My opinion this is a good dark comedy for everybody !
Check it out just for Mel's speech because its wonderful ! !	We Were Soldiers is a great Vietnam movie and is arguably the best . Mel Gibson played a great and historic role in my opinion . The speech by Gibson was , in my opinion the greatest speech I have ever witnessed in a film . Though Mel's character was focused on very much through out the film I feel when Barry Pepper finally showed up in the picture it then focused him a lot more than Gibson . To Me when Pepper finally arrived on the scene it seemed like it was Pepper's movie and not Mel's but that's just Me . Sam Elliott was great and I feel he should play more roles like and was it just Me or did he resemble R . Lee Ermey in the film ? Greg Kinnear was good for the role . I liked the film and I think most war movie fans will aswell but it has a lot of action and emotional moments but it didn't have a lot of " war gore " in it like most of the other epic war films such as Windtalkers and Saving Private Ryan so that may disappoint some but the film has good acting and such . In My opinion I think Mel Gibson performed better in signs but his speech in this film was terrific and I recommend Gibson fans to check this film out just because of his speech because its that wonderful !
Another good Garfield animated cartoon !	This is really a different Garfield animated film ! It is quite emotional when the lasagna eating fat cat meets up with his mom ! The short is very funny as is all Garfield cartoons . I really like the Garfield cartoons as they are some of My favorite animated cartoons ! If you have a chance to see it don't pass it up because its very good !
The Missing Link ! Excellent make by Rick baker !	The Missing link is very different film but an interesting and intelligent film . The scenery was fantastic ! I thought the Man-Ape was cool and actually funny at times . the film has good music and a good narration by Michael Gambon . There are some real life killing in the wild like a lion going after a baby zebra and other animals and the part with the chameleon eating the insects was really cool & the scenes with the mating frogs or toads was unusual with the amphibians doing back flips like stunt men ! This movie a like very different documentary ! If you like a movie that focuses on one character and the animals around him check this movie out if you can because its is very hard to find ! Recommended !
Above Suspicion !	Above Suspicion is a very different film that has a unique cast which includes Christopher Reeve , Joe Mantegna , Kim Cattrall , Edward Kerr , Geoffrey Rivas , Finola Hughes , and William H . Macy ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Christopher Reeve is excellent in this film . The action is good . The music is good . The film is quite exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Christopher Reeve , Joe Mantegna , Kim Cattrall , Edward Kerr , William H . Macy , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above , thrillers , dramas , and exciting action films then I recommend this film !
Back to the Future Part III is a great sequel !	Back to the Future is a great movie and it is part of a great trilogy . Many people may not like the time travel movies but I do and BTTF trilogy is the movies for ME . I just love the fact that one of MY favorite actors Christopher Lloyd is in all three of them and I just love the way he is in them . And not to mention Michael J . Fox , Thomas F . Wilson and most of the others are in the three films . Part III continues where part II left off perfectly ! This takes place in the old west and I'M not gonna spoil the rest . This is a good film and it is the most different of the three . The Back to the Future trilogy is one of the best trilogies there is in MY opinion and I hope everyone gets to see this great film series !
The UFO Incident is a must see ! ! !	This film is a classic . James Earl Jones ' performance is powerful as we get to see the big man cry , yell , scream , and more ! Estelle Parsons put on a great performance as well as the other fine actors . The film is very good and even though not much happens it is not boring at all because it is very interesting . I am aware this film is hard to find on tv or on video but If you ever a have a chance of seeing this film don't miss it because you will not regret it !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Bubble Trouble . In this short are Christine McIntyre , Emil Sitka , and Victor Travers . The acting by these actors are good especially by McIntyre and Sitka . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . There is another similar Three Stooges called All Gummed Up . I recommend both of these shorts !
Great Van Damme movie ! One of his best !	This is one of Van Damme's best films ! I thought his acting was really good especially when he was crying . Michel Qissi and Dennis Chan very good good . There is a lot of action in the film . Tong Po's introduction was cool ! The music by Paul Hertzog was good . Kickboxer has three sequels and I think the the second movie is arguably better than the first one and this one is excellent ! If like Van Damme's other great movies such as Bloodsport , Cyborg , Hard Target , and Sudden Death then I recommend you watch Kickboxer !
Excellent movie ! One of the best ever !	Minor spoilersI can't believe how great Spider-Man 2 is ! Hey , you know the story so I won't go there but I'll talk about what I liked about the film ! Well , everything ! Tobey Maguire performed greatly as Spider-Man ! I was really impressed how he acted ! The many looks he got on face was really good ! Kirsten Dunst , and Rosemary Harris were very good . James Franco also acted good . I thought J . K . Simmons really performed well and so did Donna Murphy . Ted Raimi is back in this the sequel . Dylan Baker was good in a short part but his Dr . Curt Connors character doesn't turn into The Lizard in this picture . Also Willem Dafoe has a surprise appearance , John Paxton , and Cliff Robertson has brief appearances . Bruce Campbell is in a very short part and he was very funny ! But the one who really caught My attention was Alfred Molina ! I was so amazed by his acting and the personality he gave his character Doc Ock / Dr . Otto Octavius ! I can't say enough how good he was ! His villain has immediately became one of My all time favorites ! The villain is that awesome ! Now on to a different subject , if anyone is complaining about this movie for any reason why don't you do something different and use your noggin and talk about the many wonderful messages this film has and how well the cast performed and how everything greatly was ! Anyway back to other stuff like Danny Elfman's score , it was outstanding ! The action was remarkable especially the battle scenes with Spidey and Dr . Octopus , the special effects were incredible , and the direction by Sam Raimi was astounding ! The end of the movie may surprise many people ! This film is a winner and I think its one of the best films ever with great performances , great characters interactions , great musical score , and a tremendous villain to boot ! If you like Spider-Man check out Spider-Man 2 because I strongly recommend it !
Very good movie !	If you want to see a different movie then check out The Stepford Wives ! It has very good acting and character involvement ! Its not a action packed film at all but Its an intelligent movie that is interesting to watch ! They are remaking the film which will be interesting ! If you like different movies then check out The Stepford Wives !
Suburban Commando is one of Hogan's best films !	Suburban Commando is a very good film and its one of Hulk Hogan's best films . It is one of My favorite films . I was thrilled when it came out because back when wrestling was wrestling it was so fun watching the then WWF Prime Time Wrestling show and seeing the promotions on it while watching some of the best wrestling ever seen back in 1991 . Anyway the film is action packed and has many , many funny moments . One of My favorite actors Christopher Lloyd stars along with the Hulkster and he is very good in it . Christopher Neame had a very short part and I think he should have had a much larger role in the film . William Ball , Shelley Duvall , Roy Dotrice , and Larry Miller all put on good performances . I was amazed to see Mark Callaway ( The Undertaker ) in the film . The film has good effects , good music and is an enjoyable film . If you like Hulk Hogan and Christopher Lloyd and love action , comedy , sc-fi action then see this film ! Notes : The first version of Suburban Commando released has a special message by Hulk Hogan before the movie starts . The following November Hulk Hogan fought fellow co-star Mark Callaway ( The Undertaker ) in the 1991 Survivor Series . During the song in the intro Hulk Hogan has a few words in the song . Hulk Hogan is the Executive Producer for Suburban Commando . Hulk Hogan's long time friend and legendary wrestler Brutus " the Barber " Beefcake ( Ed Leslie ) performed many of the stunts in the film .
Great show !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Very good sequel to First Blood !	The sequel to First Blood , one of My favorites and is arguably one of the best films ever is actually a very decent movie ! The acting is good and Stallone and Crenna were really good . Charles Napier put on a good performance . The music by Jerry Goldsmith was very good but in My opinion it is nothing compared to First Blood's . If you liked First Blood check out Rambo : First Blood Part II ! It is really a good action packed film !
The Nest !	This movie here called The Nest is a decent horror film . The cast performs well and it includes Robert Lansing , Lisa Langlois , Franc Luz , Terri Treas , and Jack Collins . The special effects are good . There are some really gory effects in this picture and should be enough for the big horror fan . Someone who doesn't like horror may think this film is too much on several categories but this is a horror movie fan's and a roach lover's dream come true ! The music is good . There aren't many films like this one . In fact there are very few and I don't think they make em like this anymore . Back in the 1980s this was made and that great decade allowed films like this to be created . This is a very different movie and if you are a horror fan , insect movie lover , and / or a fan of any of the cast members I mentioned above then watch The Nest !
Great film !	The Island of Dr . Moreau is a great and entertaining film that has a great cast including Marlon Brando , Val Kilmer , Fairuza Balk , Temuera Morrison , Ron Perlman , David Thewlis , Daniel Rigney , Marco Hofschneider , William Hootkins , Peter Elliott , Mark Dacascos , Miguel López , and Nelson de la Rosa . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Brando and Kilmer provide really good performances in this picture ! I was surprised how well they did together and by their selves in this picture ! Balk was good . The mystery and thrills is really good here and a lot of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . the make up and special effects are really amazing by Stan Winston ! The music is great by Gary Chang ! Great directing by John Frankenheimer ! I love how the movie begins when the credits are seen . The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This really an entertaining , exciting , and thrilling film . If you like Marlon Brando , Val Kilmer , Fairuza Balk , Temuera Morrison , Ron Perlman , David Thewlis , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thriller , Action , Drama , and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Excellent Three Stooges short with Shemp ! Curly's appearance is classic ! McDonald is great as well !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Shemp ! All Appearing in this short are Vernon Dent , Kenneth MacDonald , Heinie Conklin , Dudley Dickerson , Blackie Whiteford , and Curly Howard ! This one is so hilarious ! Shemp has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . Culry has a great cameo ! There is a similar one like this called Hold That Lion and I strongly recommend both of these Three Stooges shorts !
Alien Planet !	This is a very good program that aired on the Discovery Channel on / 05 and I think that this program was very interesting and informal one with theories and it is narrated very good by John C . McGinley . It shows many incredible and bizarre alien-like animals that vary in size from the size of small frog to the size of a large skyscraper building ! The CGI is excellent ! James Garvin , Stephen Hawking , Jack Horner , Michio Kaku , George Lucas , and J . Craig Venter give their insights to possible like of other planets ! In My opinion are are probably similar like these creature featured here plus much more ! If you can watch this on TV and like the subject and like to see theories of what could be out there and to know their possible origins then check out this amazing feature today or buy it on DVD ! Strongly Recommended !
Good film with great action !	Stone Cold is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Brian Bosworth , Lance Henriksen , Illana Diamant , William Forsythe , Arabella Holzbog , Sam McMurray , Richard Gant , Paulo Tocha , David Tress , Evan James , Tony Pierce , Billy Million , Robert Winley , and Gregory Scott Cummins ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Bosworth , Henriksen , Forsythe , Grant , and Toca are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Brian Bosworth , Lance Henriksen , Illana Diamant , William Forsythe , Arabella Holzbog , Sam McMurray , Richard Gant , Paulo Tocha , David Tress , Evan James , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is All Gummed Up . In this short are Christine McIntyre , Emil Sitka , Symona Boniface , Florence Lake , Cy Schindell , Al Thompson , and Victor Travers . The acting by these actors are good especially by McIntyre and Sitka . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . There is another similar Three Stooges called Bubble Trouble . I recommend both of these shorts !
Adventures Beyond : Chupacabra ! A great video !	I am a believer in Cryptozoology and with many unusual Cryptids such as The Jersey Devil , the Goatman and more famous ones such as Bigfoot and the Loch Ness Monster this video has its sights on one of the most bizarre creatures ever which is none other than the Chupacabra which means Goat Sucker ! The people all give the same descriptions of the beast . They say its from four to six feet tall , biped , humanoid shape , has reptilian skin , spines or quills on the back , wings , muscular arms with three fingers and a thumb with big thick sharp claws , large red eyes , many sharp teeth , and a long tongue or extractor . First I will tell some about the video and then what I believe what the creature is . This video is really amazing ! It is narrated by Jay Robinson which he does a good job . Everything in the tape is all real . It shows the killings of these poor animals in Puerto Rico . These animals which range from all kinds of farm animals such as cows and chickens and even people's pets like dogs and cats have small holes in the necks or backs which the blood is drained and / or some body parts are removed from the punctures . This is incredible because there is no evidence whatsoever that there was no other wounds on the bodies . Bob Schott , the director of the film asks questions to the people of the country and they explain what happened and what they think they are dealing with . Most say it is an extraterrestrial because many people have seen bright lights and strange flying crafts up in the sky and people have seen more then one of these beasties . Some others say it was an experiment and was set loose . Now what do I think it is ? I really can't say . Its quite possible that can it can be any thing the people say but one thing is for certain that there is something there and to this day these animals are being slain and no one knows why and this something is unlike anything we have ever seen ! This video , Adventures Beyond : Chupacabra is really extraordinary ! If you are a Cryptozoology believer and are interested in the Chupacabra or just found out about this and want to know more about this interesting subject then I strongly recommended you buy this video now from Amazon . com !
The Wasp Woman !	This is a very good old flick directed by Roger Corman . In My opinion the movie's plot is very much like the Wolf Man except the monster is woman instead of a man and that woman is Susan Cabot ! Her performance was very good . The effects in the film is good and the music is different . The film is exciting and I think that it should keep horror and sci-fi fans busy whether you like old classic horror or new horror because the film is built up pretty good and you see the Wasp Woman pretty good and the make up and stuff looks good . Some people may think its not but keep in mind that this was a low budget film and stuff . I think that the cast acted good and did the best they could do and the crew did the same as well in My opinion . I think that most horror fans will like this so check it out !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is Slippery Silks . In this short are Vernon Dent , Symona Boniface , Eddie Laughton , William Irving , and Jack ' Tiny ' Lipson . The acting by these actors especially by Dent is very good . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! I recommend this one !
Beyond Justice !	Beyond Justice is a very good and action packed film that has a good cast including Rutger Hauer , Carol Alt , Omar Sharif , Elliott Gould , Kabir Bedi , Stewart Jan Bick , David Flosi , Brett Halsey , Peter Sands , Christopher Ahrens , Larry Dolgin , and D . R . Nanayakkara . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Ennio Morricone . Great direction by Duccio Tessari . The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very thrilling film . If you like Rutger Hauer , Carol Alt , Omar Sharif , Elliott Gould , Kabir Bedi , Stewart Jan Bick , David Flosi , Brett Halsey , Peter Sands , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , War , Dramas , and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good film !	Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Robert Hays , Nancy Stafford , Ryan Phillippe , Gina Philips , Gregory Gordon , Dennis Christopher , Danielle von Zerneck , Michael A . Nickles , Whitney Danielle Porter , Jeff Johnson , Mindy Lawson , Donré Sampson , Carolyn Hennesy , Thomas E . Jacobsen , Thom Dillon , Anthony Leger , Jenniffer Buckalew , Douglas Patrick , and Jerry Penacoli ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . I was surprised to see the beautiful Danielle von Zerneck in this picture ! The special effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Robert Hays , Nancy Stafford , Ryan Phillippe , Gina Philips , Gregory Gordon , Dennis Christopher , Danielle von Zerneck the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Horror , Dramas , and interesting Bee films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
This great animated Looney Tunes short is a classic !	This short is a special feature is on before the classic Daffy Duck's Quckbuster movie ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you buy the film today !
Good film !	It Came from Outer Space II is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Brian Kerwin , Elizabeth Peña , Jonathan Carrasco , Adrian Sparks , Bill McKinney , Dean Norris , Dawn Zeek , Lauren Tewes , Mickey Jones , Iilana B'tiste , Jerry Giles , and Howard Morris ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Kerwin and Norris are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Shirley Walker . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Brian Kerwin , Elizabeth Peña , Jonathan Carrasco , Adrian Sparks , Bill McKinney , Dean Norris , Dawn Zeek , Lauren Tewes , Mickey Jones , the rest of the cast in the film , Mystery , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I noticed this is the second film that Dean Norris and Mickey Jones were in a movie together . The other being the classic violent epic Total Recall ! Funny seeing them in another alien flick ! If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , Contact , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Pitch Black , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
X2 - X-Men United - In-depth Comment !	The sequel to X-Men is here and is arguably better than the first ! Though I like both films and I can't decide which is better but both are great and that's awesome ! The first was a dark and mysterious film and X2 is a thrilling action sequel ! There are more characters in this one though Toad and Sabertooth are not in it but there are plenty of others that are just as cool ! The music is by John Ottman this time around and not by Michael Kamen . People may think Ottman's score is more fitting for the sequel than what Kamen composed for the prequel but I think Ottman's score sounds similar like the original score by Kamen which in My opinion is good for the movie ! The acting in the film is top notch and so is action and also the special effects ! Below is an In-depth look at the characters of the film X2 : X-Men United ! The characters ! Hugh Jackman as Wolverine - Still searching to find out who he is , Logan as he is called finds an empty base up in the great north but it appears empty as it hasn't been used for some time . Since the base is empty and his questions remain will this great fighter return to Professor Xavier back in the states and seek his help or will Wolverine search else where on his own ? Patrick Stewart as Professor Charles Xavier - The powerful minded leader of the X-Men goes with Scott Summers to check on how Xavier's old friend Magneto is doing . How is he doing ? Has anything gone wrong in Magneto's prison ? If so will these two X-Men be able to handle it without the others ? Ian McKellen as Magneto - Still imprisoned in his plastic jail , Erik Magnus Lehnsherr and the lovely Mystique are still partners from what is left of the Brotherhood of Mutants but will she be able to free Magneto ? Brian Cox as William Stryker - This military leader has done some strange things and word has it that he has experimented on mutants ? If this is true what kind of experiments were they ? Is it possible that he responsible for Wolverine's uniqueness ? Is he still active in his duties as of now ? Is he a threat to mutant kind and if so will the X-Men be able to stop him ? James Marsden as Cyclops - Still protective over his girl Jean Grey , Scott Summers prefers not to interact with Logan simply because Summers thinks that Wolverine wants Grey to but is this the case ? Famke Janssen as Jean Grey - Jean Grey is more powerful minded now and her mind is almost as great as Professor X ! If there is a time that the X-Men are in danger will she save the X-Men from an unspeakable situation ? Halle Berry as Storm - The Egyptian beauty goes on a mission with Jean Grey on the X-Jet . When enemy jet fighters attack she produces incredible storms but will this be enough to stop the enemy ? Anna Paquin as Rogue - Rogue has a more developed relationship with Iceman since time has gone on . Still wearing gloves since she cannot touch anyone and this makes her relationship with Bobby Drake difficult . Rebecca Romijn-Stamos as Mystique - The beautiful shape shifting Mystique is back and returns as Senator Kelly . The master metamorph changes into many others to her advantage . Does she and Magneto join their enemies ? Since she fought and was defeated by Wolverine will she fight him again and have revenge or will she do something else ? Does she have a relationship with Nightcrawler ? Does she and Rogue have a relationship of some kind and if so what kind would Rogue have with the blue skinned beauty known as Mystique ? Kelly Hu as Yuriko Oyama - The bodyguard like fighter for William Stryker is quiet but an incredible looking woman . Lady Deathstrike finally faces off with Wolverine and reveals that she is not afraid of him . She battles with each of her long extracted fingers of steel ! She also has similar healing like her foe so how can he defeat a woman that has the same techniques as he , is more agile , and a more skilled fighter who knows martial arts ? Shawn Ashmore as Iceman - An amazing mutant is Bobby Drake or Iceman as he wants to be called can freeze anything he wants with his hands . Though his relationship with Rogue is difficult but he loves her and will not let her mutant skills get in the way . Kea Wong as Jubilee - She can produce electricity from her hands but what else can Jubilation Lee do ? Aaron Stanford as Pyro - John Allerdyce can control fire as a powerful weapon ! When Magneto and Mystique arrive on the scene will Pyro join them or will he become a member of the X-Men but what has come to have him make such optional decisions ? Alan Cumming as Nightcrawler - Born in Germany and raised by a Gyspy woman , Kurt Wagner went into the circus but when it changed to new ownership he then later was going to be put in a freakshow and he decided that is not his destiny . Even though this mutant known as Nightcrawler resembles a demon of ancient times he is quite peaceful and in fact studies to be a man of God . Wagner is very agile and is capable of teleporting from area to area . With his German accent and kind personality he joins Storm and Jean Grey onto their mission ! Daniel Cudmore as Colossus - Piotr Nikolaievitch Rasputin who is also known as Colossus is a huge strong man and he has the ability to change his body into steel like covering . This steel also makes him have incredible strength ! I love the X-Men films and I would really like this franchise to be a trilogy or even a saga ! There is so much more that Bryan Singer can do with his projects especially since he has a great cast and knows how to make great movies ! I hope you have enjoyed this In-depth look at X2 : X-Men United !
Very good movie !	Outrage is pretty good movie ! Robert Culp was very good in the movie and was perfect for the part ! Its hard to believe that this is a true story but what can you do ? When I watched this I thought why do they have to do all of those things . It isn't right but they learned their lesson when they picked on the wrong man ! Anyway if you ever see this movie on TV watch it because its a good one !
Abbott and Costello meet Mummy !	This Abbott and Costello movie is a great one and in My opinion its a classic . The duo are excellent in this film ! Also starring in this one is Marie Windsor , Madame Rontru , Michael Ansara , Dan Seymour , Richard Deacon , Kurt Katch , and Eddie Parker . Marie Windsor has a great performance in this picture . The movie is hilarious and has some terrific moments ! The mummy make up is really cool ! The film also has great a musical score ! If you like Abbott and Costello then I strongly recommend that you see Abbott and Costello meet Mummy today ! MovieNuttball's NOTE : If you love mummy films I recommend the following : The Mummy ( 1932 ) , The Mummy ( 1959 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) , The Mummy Lives ( 1993 ) , Tale of the Mummy ( 1998 ) , The MuMmy ( 1999 ) , The Scorpion King ( 2002 ) , The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) , and The MuMmy : QUEST FOR THE LOST SCROLLS ( The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) VHS movie ) , and Bubba Ho-Tep ( 2002 ) !
Abbott and Costello Meet the Keystone Kops !	This Abbott and Costello movie is pretty good . Abbott and Costello was good as always ! Its a funny movie . One funny scene is when Abbott and Costello are in the house and Abbott play the robber and Costello plays the cop . It was hilarious ! If you like Abbott and Costello then see Abbott and Costello Meet The Keystone Kops !
Piranha !	Piranha is a very good horror film . The cast includes Bradford Dillman , Heather Menzies , Kevin McCarthy , Keenan Wynn , Dick Miller , Barbara Steele , Belinda Balaski , Melody Thomas Scott , Bruce Gordon , and Joe Dante ! All of the cast members were good especially Steele , Dick Miller , and Dillman . The film is directed very good by underrated director Joe Dante ! There is some gore but not much so I think the film should be OK for the big horror fan and the fan that is a bit squeamish . The fish are really the stars here . I really liked the small humanoid fish creature near the beginning . It really looked real ! That creature was so neat that it itself could have been the monster of a movie ! The special effects here are very good . They music by Pino Donaggio is good . If you are a horror fan then I recommend that you watch Piranha ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like director Joe Dante then I strongly recommend that you see Gremlins , Explorers , Innerspace , The Burbs ( one of the greatest films ever in My opinion ! ) , Gremlins 2 : The New Batch , Matinée , Small Soldiers , and Looney Tunes : Back in Action ! If you like sea monster movies then I recommend that you see Jaws , DeepStar Six , The Abyss , Leviathan , Deep Rising , Sphere , Lake Placid and Deep Blue Sea !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Shemp ! All Appearing in this short are Margie Liszt , Nanette Bordeaux , Emil Sitka , Vernon Dent , Helen Dickson , Mary Ainslee , Symona Boniface , and Heinie Conklin ! This one is so hilarious ! Shemp has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . There are two others similar like this one called Ants in the Pantry and Termites of 1938 ! I strongly recommend all three of these Three Stooges shorts !
Good Three Stooges short ! Hilarious !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is How High is Up ? In this short are Vernon Dent , Cy Schindell , and Bert Young . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent , and Schindell . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Great film with good actors , effects , and more !	This film is very good and I think it is just as good or arguably even better then the Wizard of OZ . Fairuza Balk was really good . Nicol Williamson put on a very good performances and Jean Marsh as always did a good evil job ! The newer characters are good . The music is very good . I've always thought that when ever the scenes come and show the Nome King's Mountain from a distance the music that plays during them is much like some of Ghostbusters . If you haven't seen the Return of Oz then see it because its a good film and yes its a classic !
House of Frankenstein !	This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series ! The monsters look great ! Lon Chaney Jr . is excellent as the Wolf Man once again ! Glen Strange performs excellently as Frankenstein's monster ! In My opinion he is arguably neater than Boris Karloff . John Carradine is great as Dracula ! Look for Three Stooges star Philip Van Zandt ! The music is great ! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good . In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original ! In My opinion I think that its great to have these characters to be in the same film ! If you like Lon Chaney Jr . , Glen Strange , the classic Universal Monsters , great black and white movies , and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today !
Great film ! Below is My thoughts !	I just watch the Time Machine for only the second time but I appreciated the film much more than I did before ! The effects is very good , the acting is good , the sets look very realistic , and the story is fantastic ! Guy Pearce was good and I thought Orlando Jones was good . The music is extraordinary . The truth is I cried when this wonderful part was at the end credits . It starts when the credits say about Stan Winston Studios . It was of course in the film when Guy Pearce lost his necklace in the Time Machine . Also it is located on the original score track number six " I don't belong here " . It is really an emotional piece of music composed by Hans Zimmer's colleague Klaus Badelt ! I really liked this short but epic picture . Great for time traveling movie fans ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The following is in My opinions and My thoughts . This movie has an important message I believe . To make it short a person should appreciate life even if it isn't a perfect world . A person should look up at the sky and look at the moon and think how beautiful it looks and what ever time it is whether the sky is a twilight , a cloudy , or what ever kind of sky and thank the lord that he / she can look at it . Us people should be very thankful that we have all of the great trees and animals to live together in the same world . The person should make life better for a better future just not for the person but for everyone around the person . We don't know how the future will be in several years or decades or even further . We should start and use ours minds and stop being cocky and thinking we know everything when we really haven't even begun to learn . Think about , We don't know what God and his heaven looks like . Heck , we don't even know all of the species of fish and other life forms in the ocean . Sure we humans have existed for thousands of years but how long have we had our great technology of today such as televisions . video games , and of course electricity . This hasn't been around long at all compared to how long our human race has . We should all appreciate everything and think before we leap . I just think of things that are important and that most that don't care . This is My thoughts ! Thank you for reading !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This Three Stooges short is one of My favorites of all ! The Stooges are really funny here and Vernon Dent and Christine McIntyre are very good here as well . Duke York was very good as the wolf man and he was funny in some scenes as well . This Three Stooges short is a great one to watch around Halloween time !
The Naked Gun is one of the funniest movies ever ! ! ! !	Minor SpoilersI just laugh at this movie ever time I see it which I have seen this alot ! Everything is so funny . I don't know what part is funnier whether its when Nielson is in Ricardo's room playing with the rare pen and the fish or when he is at the press conference or when he is up on the siding of the building or could it be the beginning of the film or could it be the great baseball game ? Like I said this movie is so funny . There are two sequels to the Naked Gun but to ME this is the best of the three . If you need a good laugh or cheer someone up this is the movie to watch !
A great sword fighting classic !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . This is such a great sword fighting moving that is really magical . Arnold is very good as always and Brigitte Nielsen is something else ! She is perfect for the part and she is so neat . Pat Roach aslo has a good part and he does it well . Sandahl Bergman is beautiful ! Wow is she pretty ! Anyway all Conan , sword fighting , and Arnold fans with love this for its nonstop action , its scenery , its terrific and magnificent score , and it great scenes with Arnold and Sonja herself !
Independence Day - In-depth Comment !	I have always loved this movie Independence Day . I love alien movies and this is the ultimate one to watch ! It has the most unusual all star cast which all perform well , great music by David Arnold , and some of the greatest special effects ever seen in a movie . I don't know about other people but I believe in aliens and other life in the universe . There is just so much out there and who are we to say that we are alone ? To think that there could be hundreds of thousands of intelligent species on other worlds is such an extraordinary thought . In My opinion most of the things in this movie are accurate . In My opinion ID-4 is one of the greatest movies ever made ! Below is an In-depth look at most of the characters in the film ! Bill Pullman as President Thomas J . Whitmore - He is the President of the United States of America . He fought in the Gulf War . He is an excellent pilot and an intelligent man . Invading forces are entering the Earth's atmosphere and this means that the United States and the rest of the world is going to have company like it never has had and the President must make decisions like never before ! Jeff Goldblum as David Levinson - This tall man is a cable worker and he is a computer genius not to mention is a very smart man to begin with . He will play a big part in trying to save the world . Margaret Colin as Constance Spano - She is the secretary to the president . She also has had long relationship David Levinson and as time goes on it looks like they will be back together again ! Will Smith as Capt . Steven Hiller - This smart fighter pilot is really a daredevil . He lives with his girlfriend Jasmine Dubrow and her young son Dylan . Will Capt . Steven Hiller marry this attractive woman if he goes out fights an enemy like the world has never seen ? Judd Hirsch as Julius Levinson - He is the father of David Levinson . He gives David a great idea and if it wasn't for him the world wouldn't have an advantage against the aliens . Mary McDonnell as First Lady Marilyn Whitmore - The wife of the President of the USA . Her and Thomas J . Whitmore are a very close couple . Randy Quaid as Russell Casse - This man served in Viet Nam and was abducted by aliens many years . He may have become a alcoholic but when the time comes he'll quit and try to save the world ! Robert Loggia as General William M . Grey - This top official is the first to know about the invaders from another world ! James Rebhorn as Albert Nimziki - This Secretary of Defense has not told the President everything ! Harvey Fierstein as Marty Gilbert - This man cares about his brother , his mother , his housekeeper and ever his lawyer . Adam Baldwin as Major Mitchell - This large man is one of the high commanding officers in Area 51 ! Brent Spiner as Dr . Brackish Okun - He is the head doctor in Area 51 and has had the experience at studying alien life and the arsenal they possess ! Vivica A . Fox as Jasmine Dubrow - This beauty has been waiting for Capt . Steven Hiller to marry her . Since things in the world have gotten a little bit out of hand their marriage has to halt . Ross Bagley as Dylan Dubrow - He is the young boy of Jasmine Dubrow . Mae Whitman as Patricia Whitmore - She is the young daughter of the President and the First Lady . James Duval as Miguel Casse , Lisa Jakub as Alicia Casse , Giuseppe Andrews as Troy Casse - They are Russell Casse ' kids . Bill Smitrovich as Captain Watson - He gives orders to the fighters that will have a dog fight like they have never imagined ! Harry Connick Jr . as Captain Jimmy Wilder - This wild pilot has a charming personality and is Capt . Steven Hiller's best friend . Leland Orser as Tech / Medical Assistant # 1 - When there's an emergency procedure he along with Dr . Brackish Okun must perform an unbelievable surgery on a being from another planet ! Erick Avari as SETI Chief - After being woken up and banging his head he hears the extraordinary sound of other life on the phone ! Dean Devlin as Eagle 2 Pilot - This fighter pilot will have a flying time of his life ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If love Roland Emmerich then I recommend that you see the following films : Making Contact ( a very different movie ) , Universal Soldier ( an awesome movie , one of the best ! ) , Stargate ( another excellent film ! ) , Godzilla 1998 ( Don't get Me wrong , its a great movie but I still feel that it is nothing like the classic Godzilla movies so I only recommend you see it if you like American monster films and / or Roland Emmerich ) , The Patriot , ( 2000 , this is fine film ! ) , and The Day After Tomorrow ( Great movie ! ) If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
This Turtles movie is cool too !	Minor Spoilers I was amazed how fast this one came out ! Tell you the truth I like this one the most out of all of the movies . The film is really presented well and when the Turtles show up boy is that a great scene . I just love it when Shredder returns ! April is played by a different woman and there is no Bebop and Rocksteady but it has two new mutants which doesn't fail . The end of the film is really cool . Shredder takes the ooze and becomes Super Shredder ! Super Shredder is played by wrestler Kevin Nash . When I saw him I wanted to see him again and again . This is really a good movie . Its one of the best !
Great classic !	Too Late for Tears is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Lizabeth Scott , Don DeFore , Dan Duryea , Arthur Kennedy , Kristine Miller , Barry Kelley , Jimmy Ames , Georgia Backus , Robert Bice , John Butler , David Clarke , Jimmie Dodd , Renee Donatt , Charles Flynn , John Mansfield , and Alex Montoya ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Scott , Defore , Duryea , Kennedy , Miller and Keeley are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Lizabeth Scott , Don DeFore , Dan Duryea , Arthur Kennedy , Kristine Miller , Barry Kelley , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Dramas , Film-Noir and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
One of the most excellent thrillers in years ! Great action and actors make this film extremely entertaining !	Cellular is an excellent film that has a great cast including Kim Basinger , Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , Willaim H . Macy , Noah Emmerich , Jessica Biel , Rick Hoffman , Valerie Cruz , Caroline Aaron , Eric Etebari , Brendan Kelly , Matt McColm , and Dean Deviln ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Basing , Evans , Stratham , Emmerich , and Biel is really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed greatly ! I like Evans and I love when it Stratham is a bad guy ! Macey surprised Me here ! The thrills is really great and some of it is very surprising . The movie is filmed excellently . The music is great by John Ottman ! Great directing by David R . Ellis ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a superb end extremely thrilling film . If you like Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , Willaim H . Macy , Noah Emmerich , Jessica Biel , Rick Hoffman , Caroline Aaron , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Action , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Horsing Around . In this short are Emil Sitka , Harriet Tarlor , Harriette Tarler , and Tony The Wonder Horse . The acting by these actors are good especially by Sitka Tony The Wonder Horse . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Hoofs and Goofs . In this short are Benny Rubin , Harriette Tarler , Tony The Wonder Horse , and Joe Palma . The acting by these actors are good especially by Rubin and Tony The Wonder Horse . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one !
One of the greatest movies of all time ! ! ! !	When I first saw previews of this great film in 1990 I just couldn't wait to see it . In 1991 I finally saw it I was so amazed at the special effect in it and how different it was compared to the first the Terminator . Arnold this time was the good guy and his new villain was T-1000 cyborg played by Robert Patrick . The battles between these two Terminators were awesome . There is so many gun fights and people getting shot and thrown around that the movie is action packed that it never slows down . I just love the the beginning where where you see the war of the machines and another scene where the T-000 and the Terminator is in the back of the mall and continues to shoot each other and another great scene is where near the end where they fight on the road and in the metal plant . I just love how Linda Hamilton acts in this movie , she is so good . This is I think James Cameron's best direction . T2 has great music as well and at the end credits make sure you listen to the some by Guns ' n Roses . Make sure you get the McFarlane Movie Maniacs Terminator and T-1000 action figures . They are great ! Special VHS Edition Comment : Fans of Terminator 2 : Judgment Day will love this ! I was really pleased with restored scenes , My favorite one is when beautiful Sarah Connor is dreaming about Kyle . Sarah looks so good and I have always like Linda's character but now I love her character even more now . She is such a incredible woman . There are a lot of other key scenes that were missing on the first release but they are here now ! T2 is an explosive epic and is in my opinion one of the greatest movies of all time . Movie Nuttball's NOTE : This is one of the greatest movies of all time . This is one of MY favorites . I rank this movie with some of MY other favorites like The Mummy Returns , The Planet Of The Apes 2001 , Legend , Predator 2 , Masters Of The Universe , My Science Prodject , The Relic , and The Glimmer Man , and among others .
Great movie !	Breakdown is a excellent thrilling movie ! Kurt Russell was very good and it is amazing how he play so many different role and do so many different things ! The late great J . T . Walsh was very good as well ! Kathleen Quinlan , M . C . Gainey , Jack Noseworthy , and Rex Linn put on very good performances ! Great music by Basil Poledouris and direction by Jonathan Mostow ! I strongly recommend if you want to watch Russell and the other cast members mention above in a great action thriller the see Breakdown !
Great movie ! One of the most entertaining films !	Turbulence is very good film . Every acts very well and Lauren Holly is very good and Brenden Gleeson is really a cool bad guy ! In My opinion this is arguably Ray Liotta's best film ! He is such a cool dude in Turbulence and just about everything he does is funny ! It was an excellent role for him ! Hector Elizondo , Rachel Ticotin , Jeffrey DeMunn , Catherine Hicks , and Ben Cross were all good . Once again J . Kenneth Campbell got killed as pilot . The other film that I know of the he played nearly the same role was in Sonic Impact . You wouldn't think such a thing would happen to a handsome man . Any way Liotta is as funny as heck in this film and I've seen it many time and he just gets funnier and funnier ! If you air plane disaster films this is the one to watch !
Close Encounters of the Third Kind !	Close Encounters of the Third Kind is really a unique movie ! I don't want to spoil it so is all I'll say is Steven Spielberg did a great job here and John Williams score is great ! The special effects are tremendous ! I just love the sky views in this movies ! It a fantastic movie and I strongly recommended anyone to watch it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds ( 1953 and 2005 , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Mission to Mars , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Signs , The Forgotten , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Excellent movie !	Great pirate film ! Its one of the best ! I really liked Geena Davis in this and Frank Langella was awesome ! Matthew Modine was good . Great action and great music by John Debney ! This is a very underrated and misunderstood movie and deserves a lot appreciation it has over the years . If you like pirate movies and the cast mention then check out the ultimate pirate movie , Cutthroat Island !
Great film !	Resident Evil : Apocalypse is a great film that has a good cast which includes Milla Jovovich , Sienna Guillory , Oded Fehr , Thomas Kretschmann , Sophie Vavasseur , Razaaq Adoti , and Matthew G . Taylor . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Jovovich in My opinion had one heck of a performance . She worked very hard fighting and handling the weaponry . The zombies are filmed really cool ! The RE characters such as the Lickers and the zombie canines are cool . Nemesis is awesome in this film ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is outstanding by Jeff Dana . I recommend that you stop by Amazon . com and buy the score ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film and I don ; t understand why this film didn't do well at the box office and now it has a IMDb rating of . You got tons of great action , some RE characters from the games , and whole lot more ! What more could you want ? If you Milla Jovovich , Sienna Guillory , Oded Fehr , Thomas Kretschmann , the rest of the cast in the film , Resident Evil video games and the first film , Horror , Sci-Fi , Action , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Congo is a great adventure !	Minor Spoilers Congo is such a good movie . I love the tagline Where you are the endangered species ! Such a great beatutiful movie with fantastic music by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith and Congo has a great cast aswell including Bruce Campbell , Joe Don Baker , Tim Curry , Ernie Hudson , Dylan Walsh , Laura Linney , Delroy Lindo , Peter Jason and many others ! I really don't know why people don't like this movie . It has action , great stars , great visuals , and so much more ! I love Congo !
Good John Candy movie !	This is a classic John Candy movie in My opinion . Richard Crenna and Rip Torn are also in it ! I don't want to spoil it but here is just a sample of what's funny in this movie ! The eggs in the car , the woman that got breast surgery , the restaurant scenes with Crenna and Candy , all of the beach scenes , and last but not least the heavy set belching smurf watching man ! This is a good John Candy movie that I recommend !
Terrific movie !	Great movie ! Harrison Ford and Tommy Lee Jones are great ! Jeroen Krabbé was good as always . The acting is good and the score by James Newton Howard is great ! The film is never boring . The special VHS version is boast a lot of cool features . Look for the sequel U . S . Marshals because in My opinion is just as good . If you like Ford and Jones then see this excellent movie , The Fugitive !
Great film !	The Philadelphia Experiment is a very good film that has a good cast includes Michael Paré , Nancy Allen , Eric Christmas , Bobby Di Cicco , Louise Latham , Kene Holliday , Joe Dorsey , Michael Currie , and Stephen Tobolowsky . The acting by all of these actors is very good especially by Paré and Allen I thought The mystery is good and some of it is surprising . Great special effects ! The movie is filmed good . The music is great . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael Paré , Nancy Allen , Stephen Tobolowsky , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Science Fiction , Thrillers , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great movie ! Its one of the most intense ever !	Road Rage or A Friday Night Date is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Casper Van Dien , Danielle Brett , Joseph Griffin , Catherine Oxenberg , Chuck Byrn , Anthone Tullo , James Millington , James Binkley , and Wayne Lame . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Lowe is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Casper Van Dien , Danielle Brett , Joseph Griffin , Catherine Oxenberg , Chuck Byrn , Anthone Tullo , James Millington , James Binkley , Wayne Lame , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Action , Dramas , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
With grand storytelling and fabulous acting by these actors Unbreakable is one of the best films of this decade !	Unbreakable is a great film that has a great cast including Bruce Willis , Samuel L . Jackson , Robin Wright Penn , Spencer Treat Clark , Charlayne Woodard , Eamonn Walker , Leslie Stefanson , Johnny Hiram Jamison , Michaelia Carroll , Bostin Christopher , Elizabeth Lawrence , David Duffield , Laura Regan , Chance Kelly , Michael Kelly , Firdous Bamji , Johanna Day , James Handy , Bostin Christopher , and M . Night Shyamalan ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Willis , Jackson , Penn and Clark are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by James Newton Howard . Great directing by M . Night Shyamalan ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Bruce Willis , Samuel L . Jackson , Robin Wright Penn , Spencer Treat Clark , Charlayne Woodard , James Handy , Leslie Stefanson , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , Fantasy , Mystery and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good movie !	Love , Lies and Murder is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Clancy Brown , Sheryl Lee , Moira Kelly , Tom Bower , Ramon Bieri , Cynthia Nixon , Nestor Serrano , John M . Jackson , John Ashton , Shelley Morrison , Cathryn de Prume , Gerry Bamman , Paul Perri , and Joe D'Angerio . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Brown is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . So is Jackson ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Charles Bernstein . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Clancy Brown , Sheryl Lee , Moira Kelly , Tom Bower , Ramon Bieri , Cynthia Nixon , Nestor Serrano , John M . Jackson , John Ashton , Shelley Morrison , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Mystery , Dramas , and interesting True Stories then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good film !	Homeward Bound II : Lost in San Francisco is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Michael J . Fox , Sally Field , Sinbad , Stephen Tobolowsky , Veronica Lauren , Jon Polito , Adam Goldberg , Kevin Chevalia , Robert Hays , Kim Greist , Ralph Waite , Benj Thall , Kristina Lewis , Al Michaels , Nathaniel DeVeaux , and Bob Uecker ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael J . Fox , Sally Field , Sinbad , Stephen Tobolowsky , Veronica Lauren , Jon Polito , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Drama , Family , Comedy and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Scorpion King !	I am a very big fan of the Mummy movies and The Scorpion King film is decent ! I'm a big fan of the Conan movies as well and to Me The Scorpion King isn't like them at all . The Scorpion King delivers all of the goods . Tons on nonstop action , a little humor , and great sets . The actors were good as well . The Rock did an excellent job for his first major motion picture and Michael Clarke Duncan looked more massive than ever before . His performance was great ! The long fight between the huge men was awesome ! Steven Brand was tremendous as Memnon . The way he performed made you believe he was the greatest fighter at the time . Ralph Moeller looked excellent and he did great as a villain . His accent was really cool . I was glad to see Grant Heslov make a good appearance and in fact I think he did just as good as he did in True Lies and Congo . Kelly Hu performed good . Branscombe Richmond , Bernard Hill , Peter Facinelli , Roger Rees , Al Leong , Gus Rethwisch , Peter Navy Tuiasosopo , and the legendary wrestler Tyler Mane all have brief roles which they all perform well . Great music by John Debney ! Chuck Russell is a great and underrated director in My opinion and directs everything in this movie greatly especially the sword fights between Mathayus and Balthazar . This is the movie where you see the Scorpion King become the first Pharaoh of Egypt ! All Mummy movie , action , Egyptian , Rock and fans of the actors mentioned above must see this movie !
Good one !	Extreme Limits AKA Crash Point Zero is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Treat Williams , Hannes Jaenicke , Gary Hudson , John Beck , Julie St . Claire , Ava Fabian , Steve Franken , Susan Blakely , Lorissa McComas , J . Patrick McCormack , Bridget Butler , John Putch , Allan Kolman , Richard Riehle , Sean Kanan , William Monroe , and Jack Shearer . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Lowe is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Treat Williams , Hannes Jaenicke , Gary Hudson , John Beck , Julie St . Claire , Ava Fabian , Steve Franken , Susan Blakely , Lorissa McComas , J . Patrick McCormack , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Just as great and epic as the FOTR !	This may contain spoilers and the following is all of My opinions . The Two Towers is an epic ! In My opinion its just as great as the Fellowship but TTT is a much darker and violent film than the first part and has about same amount of humor . Viggo Mortensen was excellent and I really like his character . In the FOTR he showed a lot but in TTT he shows even more ! Liv Tyler was great and she looked so good . The new characters such as Eomer , Faramir were very likable . Brad Dourif was awesome as Grima Wormtongue ! Cate Blanchett really wasn't in TTT very long but she was very good . Another top notch performence ! Christopher Lee was great and the others like Orlando Bloom as Legolas and John Rhys-Davies as Gimli was good like before . Ian McKellan was good as Gandalf but since he is Gandalf the White his character seemed different than he was in first part of The Lord of the Rings . Bernard Hill as King Theodon was good as well . As for the other stuff I was really fascinated by Treebeard and the Ents . I honestly thought that they would be to cartoony and wouldn't fit in the film but they were great . The Gollum CGI character was good and very realistic . I loved the giant elephants and the Wargs . I couldn't believe it when I saw the Ringwraiths riding dragons and the Cave Trolls are great . As for the film itself its a wonderful film . The scenery , the battles , every thing was great ! The prolog was great with Gandalf and the Balrog . The Battle at Helms Deep was very epic and the three battle scenes at different places didn't hurt . Is all I can say is that TTT is a great film and its one of the best ever . I am glad the story is continuing with The Return of the King later this year and I can't wait to see it ! If you haven't seen TTT yet and saw FOTR then go see TTT as it is phonemail film !
Arguably the greatest film ever made !	May contain Spoilers . The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King is arguably the greatest film ever made ! The Fellowship of the Ring and the Two Towers are two great films no question about it but I think this is the one that has the most epic happenings ! The cast was as great as before ! I really like John Noble as Denethor ! What a great actor playing a great character ! Paul Norell was awesome as the King of the Dead ! He is arguably the neatest character in the movie ! Lawrence Makoare was very good as the Witch King ! The music by Howard Shore was excellent again ! The battles were so dynamic ! I can't explain it ! The creatures were fantastic ! The Fell Beasts caused much more havoc this time and the Trolls wore armor and I loved how they played those huge drums marching into battle ! They were something else ! The giant Elephants , Rhino beasts , Wargs , and Thunderbird like Birds were awesome ! Shelob the giant spider was great and she is really a villain ! It is so incredible how all of this action was filmed ! You get to see how Gollum became Gollum ! The armor all of the characters wore is so realistic ! The scenery is beautiful ! The battles and every thing was spectacular but there was one part that is so extraordinary and that is when Sam and Frodo are in Mount Doom ! I admit I can't explain it well but I believe it was the way it is filmed . I have never seen anything like it before in a movie ! Gollum comes behind Sam and attacks Frodo and gets the one ring ! Gollum is dancing in victory with his precious ! Frodo makes a return and battles him ! I won't tell you what happens ! When I saw this entire scene I just couldn't believe it . Maybe I'm the only one that this large scene amazed in disbelief but in My opinion it is one of the greatest scenes ever filmed if not the greatest scene ever filmed ! There are shocking moments in the battles and especially when the creatures are fighting ! I was disappointed that Christopher Lee and Brad Dourif was not in the film but even though they weren't in the film the film was still epic ! If you love The Fellowship of the Ring and the Two Towers then this is a must see ! I strongly advise you to see The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King , the movie that is arguably the greatest film ever made !
Second viewing was even better ! ! !	I saw Signs again and let me tell ya , This movie is the most scariest movie I have seen in a long time . In my opinion the performance by Mel Gibson is flawless and is arguably his best film to date ! Joaquin Phoenix was good and what he did during the end was very cool . In my opinion this is still one of the best films this year and is tied with Star Wars : Episode II . This is the first movie I can recall that sent shivers up and down my back ! I recommend this film ! Note : Didn't M . Night Shyamalan ( as Ray in Signs ) act and have the same facial expressions as Hayden Christensen ?
The Green Berets ! One of the greatest war films of all time !	The Green Berets is a great John Wayne film ! He is very good in the movie . The cast is also good . George Takei is excellent in the movie . The music is by Miklós Rózsa which is a very good score . The action is unbelievably realistic and I am amazed how the battles and fighting scenes were especially since it was made decades ago ! The end of the film is quite emotional . The box of the movie has John Wayne on the cover which the picture has him as a tired and angry man . It is such an unusual picture . This is one of the best and finest war films I have ever seen . With its good acting , incredible and I mean incredible action , great special effects , and awesome directing this is a classic ! It is arguably The Duke's best film ! If you want to see a great war movie that is way ahead of its time then this is truly the ultimate one to watch !
An excellent film !	Copycat e is a great film that has a good cast which include Sigourney Weaver , Holly Hunter , Dermot Mulroney , William McNamara , Harry Connick Jr . , J . E . Freeman , Will Patton , John Rothman , Shannon O'Hurley , Bob Greene , and Tony Haney ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Weaver , Hunter , Mulroney , McNamara , Connick Jr . Patton and Rothman are really excellent in this film . I thought that they all performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Christopher Young The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Sigourney Weaver , Holly Hunter , Dermot Mulroney , William McNamara , Harry Connick Jr . , Will Patton , John Rothman , the rest of the cast in the film , Crime , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , Action and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Sigourney Weaver and John Rothman were also in the classic film Ghostbusters !
In the beginning there was Howard The Duck ! ! !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Minor SpoilersI was just crazy about this movie when it first came out . Seeing the Dark Overlord was really scary . The special effects in Howard The Duck are great . Its really amazing to see how Lea Thompson , Jeffrey Jones , and Tim Robbins are so young in this and that this is part of a Lucas film . Jones ' voice is really spooky when he becomes poesed by the Dark Overlord . HTD also has a great score by John Barry . Any Lucas , sc-fi , action , monster movie fan should liked Howard the Duck . I think its a classic !
Very good Three Stooges short ! Christine McIntyre and Dick Curtis are great in this short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This one is a very good Three Stooges western short . The Stooges are really good . Christine McIntyre and Dick Curtis put on a great show here . She looks excellent and she puts on a great performance as a pitiful character . Curtis looks good and different without his trademark mustache . His Blackie character is a great villain . Also appearing are Hank Bell , Steve Clark , Budd Fine , Joe Garcia , Ethan Laidlaw , Blackie Whiteford , and Victor Travers . I recommend this Three Stooges short !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a good Three Stooges short . Tiny Braur plays a good part and he and the beautiful Beverly Warren make a good couple . She also performs very good ! Also appearing in this one is Joe Palma . The Stooges are all good and the baby scenes are good . This one is similar like the other Three Stooges short with Curly called Sock-A-Bye Baby which is just as good . I recommend both of them to Three Stooges fans !
Riddle of the Desert Mummies !	This is a very good video . This program aired on TLC and I believe the Discovery Channel a few years ago . I think that this program is a very interesting and informal one and it is narrated very good by John Malkovich . It shows many mummified people that are hundreds and thousands of years old from all over the world including many parts in Asia , China , and Ukraine to name just a few of the countries these mummies are from . I think it is amazing the way these ancient were people mummified . This video really fascinating . In My opinion to watch this you must like to see mummies and interesting things because all of this is real and these mummies really look like the way they do so if you like to see real mummies and to know their origins then check out this amazing feature today !
Excellent Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a hilarious Three Stooges short and its always been one of My favorites ! The part when the Stooges are using the tools is funny ! Vernon Dent is very good in this one . Al Thompson , Cy Schindell , and Ethan Laidlaw are also in this . Three Stooges Short ! The lovely Christine McIntyre is very good in this one ! This is an excellent one ! One of My favorites !
Great Chris Farley movie !	This is a extremely funny Chris Farley movie ! There is too much to tell ! It has some really good fighting scenes and how about that Mortal Kombat music near the end ! I thought Robin Shou and Chris Rock were good and funny ! If you like silly comedies and Chris Farley then check out Beverley Hills Ninja ! I strongly recommend it !
One of the greatest animated feature films ever !	This is a great animated feature film . It was so cool to see He-Man and She-Ra and Skeletor and Hordak together ! I loved it when He-Man and She-Ra did their transformation after each other near then ! That was wonderful ! I loved that ! Most of the characters from both series ' were in the film and the music was great as always ! If you like He-Man and She-Ra then watch this masterpiece . In My opinion this was one of the greatest animated features ever ! Just like the series ' its a classic and I think it'll be hard for something to top this ! I really love this movie and I don't think you'll be disappointed !
Excellent movie !	A Simple Plan is a good movie . The cast includes Bill Paxton , Bridget Fonda , Billy Bob Thornton , Brent Briscoe , John Paxton , Gary Cole , and the movie is directed by Sam Raimi ! The cast all acted really well . Bill Paxton was really the same as he always is which is great acting ! Billy Bob looked different and so did Fonda . Gary Cole was good but I think Brent Briscoe did one heck of an acting performance ! The music is by veteran composer Danny Elfman and his music in this film is is very good ! Sam Raimi did an excellent job directing this flick . The movie always keeps your attention with it great story . You follow these characters and see them get into one situation after another which this is one of the many things that keeps you wanting find out what is going to happen in the end ! Great movie and if you like Bill Paxton and the other cast members then I strongly recommend you watch this film today !
Good film ! Sobieski , Lane , Skarsgård and Dern provide very good performances in this picture !	The Glass House is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Leelee Sobieski , Diane Lane , Stellan Skarsgård , Bruce Dern , Kathy Baker , Trevor Morgan , Chris Noth , Michael O'Keefe , Vyto Ruginis , Gavin O'Connor , Carly Pope , China Shavers , Agnes Bruckner , Michael Paul Chan , Rachel Wilson , Rutanya Alda , Erick Avari , Mia Barrentine , John Billingsley , and Rita Wilson ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Sobieski , Lane , Skarsgård and Dern are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Christopher Young . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like s Leelee Sobieski , Diane Lane , Stellan Skarsgård , Bruce Dern , Kathy Baker , Trevor Morgan , Chris Noth , Michael O'Keefe , Rita Wilson , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Horror , Action , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Another good Batman movie !	This Batman movie is great ! Arnold is perfect as Mr . Freeze ! I just love his voice and his comedy parts ! Clooney is is good as Batman but in MY opinion his is better as Bruce Wayne . O'Donnell did a job and Silverstone looked very good . Thurman was great as Poison Ivy and infact she is a beautiful woman . Jeep Swenson was good as Bane and you can see how large his arms are and I sad to know that this huge wrestler passed away . Hingle and Gough did good as usual . Look for appearences by legendary wrestler Jesse Ventura , Ralph Moeller , and John Glover . All Batman fans check this nonstop action adventure soon !
Sesame Street Presents : Follow that Bird !	I think that Sesame Street Presents : Follow that Bird is good film . It mostly for kids but there is plenty of stuff for the adults here . There are some brief but great performances here by John Candy , Chevy Chase , and Waylon Jennings . Also there also great performances by Joe Flaherty and Dave Thomas . In My opinion they are the star here . But a lot of the Sesame Street Muppets have a lot of time here noting the Cookie Monster and Oscar . There are some really hilarious scenes here as well . I mean they are really funny . The Dodos are funny , the " Don't Drop In " restaurant scenes were incredibly funny , and there are more here . The songs in this picture are especially the one by Waylon Jennings is good . I think that most people would like this especially if you have young kids or just want to watch something hilarious then I recommend this great film !
Classic Disney !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Lethal Weapon ! A great action film !	The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars . There's Lethal Weapon 1 , Lethal Weapon 2 , Lethal Weapon 3 , and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions ! Steve Kahan and Paul Tuerpe are in all four as well . Shane Black did a great job with the writing ! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Clapton , and director Richard Donner has directed all four ! Lethal Weapon is the one that started it all ! It stars Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , and Gary Busey ! Also in the movie is Mitch Ryan , Tom Atkins , Ed O'Ross , and Grand L . Bush . Look for Joan Severance , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Mic Rodgers , Peter DuPont , and Al Leong ! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson puts on an excellent performance ! Good music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton ! Looking for action and love Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , and Gary Busey ? Watch Lethal Weapon today ! I strongly recommend it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I noticed that Danny Glover , Gary Busey , and Steve Kahan were all in two movies together and they are Lethal Weapon and Predator 2 ! Interesting !
Fire in the Sky , what would you do if you saw it ?	Minor spoilersFire in the Sky has some very scary moments or at least the movie did for me ! When the guys discover the " fire " that is an incredibly shocking scene and near the end when we see it all that there scared the $ & # out of me and to this day it still does ! Robert Patrick , James Garner , D . B . Sweeney , and Peter Berg are all good in this ! I recommend all alien fans to watch this and get scared !
No Michael Myers but its a good horror film ! They don't make ' em like this anymore !	Halloween III : The Season of the Witch is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Tom Atkins , Stacy Nelkin , Dan O'Herlihy , Michael Currie , Ralph Strait , Jadeen Barbor , Brad Schacter , Garn Stephens , Nancy Kyes , Jonathan Terry , Al Berry , Wendy Wessberg , Essex Smith , Maidie Norman , and Dick Warlock ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Atkins and O'Herlihy are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by John Carpenter and Alan Howarth . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Tom Atkins , Stacy Nelkin , Dan O'Herlihy , Michael Currie , Ralph Strait , Jadeen Barbor , Brad Schacter , Garn Stephens , Dick Warlock , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Yet another great animated classic from Disney !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
A great werewolf movie !	One of Stephen Kings ' greatest stories of all in My opinion is Silver Bullet ! Good acting by all of the cast and Gary Busey is very funny and Everett McGill pulls off another great performance ! The music is great and the movie is just plain great ! Silver Bullet is one of the best Werewolf films ever as it delivers great scares and a great looking werewolf ! Note : Watch for a great old wrestling match when the hilarious Milt Sturmfuller watches the tv !
Lethal Weapon 2 ! A great sequel !	The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars . There's Lethal Weapon 1 , Lethal Weapon 2 , Lethal Weapon 3 , and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions ! Steve Kahan , Paul Tuerpe , and Mary Ellen Trainor are in all four as well . Shane Black did a great job with the writing ! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton , producer , Joel Silver , and director Richard Donner has directed all four ! Lethal Weapon 2 ! It stars Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , Joe Pesci , Joss Ackland , Derrick O'Connor , and Patsy Kensit ! Also in the movie is Jenette Goldstein , Grand L . Bush , and Jack McGee . Look for Pat Skipper and Danny Wynands ! Ackland is really a good villain in this picture ! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson puts on an excellent performance ! Good music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton ! Looking for action and love Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ? Watch Lethal Weapon 2 today ! I strongly recommend it !
Great film ! Sheen has a great performance !	Under Pressure AKA Bad Day On the Block is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Charlie Sheen , Mare Winningham , David Andrews , Noah Fleiss , Dawnn Lewis , Chelsea Russ , John Ratzenberger , Keone Young , Reggie Jackson , Cody Jones , David Hewlett , Phillip Jarrett , Tino Monte , Sheldon Turcott , and Karen Brigman . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Sheen is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Gary Chang and good directing by Craig R . Baxley . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Mare Winningham , David Andrews , Noah Fleiss , Dawnn Lewis , Chelsea Russ , John Ratzenberger , Keone Young , Reggie Jackson , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Mystery , Dramas , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great Three Stooges Shemp short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges western short with Shemp . It has a good spooky theme to it ! Don C . Harvey performs really well here . Also appearing in this short is Marion Martin , Emil Sitka , Paul Campbell , George Chesebro , Slim Gaut , John Merton , Victor Travers , and Blackie Whiteford ! This is a very good one and is hilarious ! Strongly recommended !
Very misunderstood Steven Seagal film : (	I really don't know what is so horrible about this film . As of this writing On Deadly Ground is on the IMDb bottom 100 : # 99 and that is just sad . On Deadly Ground is a very decent film . I admit When I first saw it when it came out I didn't appreciate it but after a recent viewing , that has changed one hundred percent ! The movie has got it all ! A great story , great action , and one heck of a cast ! Look , you have Steven Seagal , R . Lee Ermey , Michael Caine , Joan Chen , John C . McGinley , and Billy Bob Thornton ! Plus Sven-Ole Thorsen and Jules Desjarlais , Mike Starr , Nils Allen Stewart , and even Irvin Kershner ! Ermey's character was neat and he acted very well ! Seagal's direction is good and I loved it when he showed up for his first scene in the movie . The film is really good in My opinion and at the end when Seagal's speech came up it was really deep and seeing those real clips of animals was sad . For those who have seen it before just give this film another try and for the people who didn't see the film also see this film if you like Seagal and the above mentioned cast and action movies . I am sure you will disagree with the others and like the film like I do . I recommend it !
Great movie ! Possibly a classic !	I thought Hellboy was an excellent film ! The cast was chosen well . Ron Perlman was awesome in My opinion . He put so much excitement into the Hellboy character . He looked so neat as well . In fact his character has not only become of My favorites but Perlman himself has become one of My favorite actors . Selma Blair was also good and she looked neat . Doug Jones also played a great and colorful character . John Hurt , Jeffrey Tambor , Brian Steele , Corey Johnson , Rupert Evans , Ladislav Beran , and Biddy Hodson was also very good . All of the characters have great personalities in My opinion . The music by Marco Beltrami is very good . The action is awesome to watch , the special effects are realistic , and the direction by Guillermo del Toro is great . In My opinion The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen should have been like this . I strongly recommend this great action packed movie !
Driven ! A very good movie !	Driven is a very movie that stars Sylvester Stallone , Burt Reynolds , Kip Pardue , Stacy Edwards , Til Schweiger , Gina Gershon , Estella Warren , Cristián de la Fuente , Brent Briscoe , and Robert Sean Leonard ! I think this is a one of Stallone's finest films ! All of the other actors were really good as well . Was it just Me or was Cristián de la Fuente a lot like Jean-Claude Van Damme in this picture ? The characters are likable . The music is good . The direction by Renny Harlin is excellent ! The race car action was fantastic ! I think that Driven is a very good movie and very exciting ! In My opinion it deserves much more than a 4 . 4 rating . If you haven't seen the movie and like Stallone and the other cast members and want to see great race car action then don't go by the very low rating and bad comments , just watch the movie ! I strongly recommend it !
Great action movie !	The Last Siege is in My opinion a very good action movie with an unusual cast ! Jeff Fahey , Ernie Hudson , Ernie Hudson Jr . , Patrick Kilpatrick , Frank McRae , Beth Toussaint , and Brent Huff were all good in this movie . Brent Huff reminded Me a lot of Michael Wincott . Its something that Patrick Kilpatrick was in a similar movie called Under Siege 2 : Dark Territory years before this was made . He even plays a similar character in this film and not to mention he is very good in the movie ! I think he is an underrated actor . The music is very good in the movie , it has solid acting , action , directing , musical score , and everything else . If you liked Under Siege 2 : Dark Territory and want to see another great film similar like it then The Last Siege is an awesome film to watch !
One of the most spectacular events of all time !	Being a big Metallica fan I was amazed that Metallica was going to have a concert with an Orchestra and that one of My favorite movie composers Michael Kamen was going to be the Orchestrator and Conductor I couldn't believe it ! This was an awesome experience seeing such an extraordinary event ! The camera work is remarkable . It catches so many great moments perfectly in My opinion ! The songs that were chosen are great and I thought it was really cool to have two new songs just for this concert ! The band really performs greatly and James Hetfield's singing is incredible and I just love his voice ! Michael Kamen is just so great here ! The sound is also great ! Overall in My opinion this is one of the most spectacular events of all time ! If you love Metallica and want to see them in one of the greatest concerts ever and want to see Michael Kamen do his stuff then I strongly recommend that stop by at Amazon . com and buy the video and / or the DVD and the audio CD today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The DVD version has an Easter Egg on it . You can have the Orchestra performing by themselves Its a unique feature and it makes it a totally different experience !
Very different Scooby-Doo cartoon !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Great Tremors movie !	Tremors 4 : The Legend Begins star Michael Gross ! He returns in this prequel and he is playing a different character but he plays the great-grandfather of Burt Gummer in the other films ! He is very good in this picture just like he was in the other films ! Veteran bad guy actor Billy Drago really surprised Me with his role as Black Hand Kelly ! In My opinion he did a great acting performance in this movie ! He looked really neat the way he was dressed . His character was one of a kind in My opinion ! The rest of the cast was good . The special effects look great ! The musical score by Jay Ferguson was good and it has decent direction by S . S . Wilson ! Tremors 4 : The Legend Begins in My opinion is a good and welcomed addition to the Tremors series ! If you like the other three Tremors movies , Michael Gross , and want to see Billy Drago in an excellent role then I strongly recommend you watch Tremors 4 : The Legend Begins !
Great film !	The Perfect Storm is a great film that has a great cast including George Clooney , Mark Wahlberg , Diane Lane , John C . Reilly , William Fichtner , Bob Gunton , Karen Allen , Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio , Allen Payne , John Hawkes , Christopher McDonald , Dash Mihok , Josh Hopkins , Michael Ironside , Cherry Jones , Rusty Schwimmer , Janet Wright , and Bruce Mahler ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . George Clooney , Mark Wahlberg , Diane Lane and John C . Reilly really excellent in this film . Micahel Ironside is great in this picture ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The special effects are great . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by James Horner . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like George Clooney , Mark Wahlberg , Diane Lane , John C . Reilly , Bob Gunton , Karen Allen , Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio , the rest of the cast in the film , True Stories , Action , Disaster Films , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great action packed Stallone movie with some REALLY bad guys !	This movie is really nerve racking Cliffhangin movie ! Stallone was good as always ! Michael Rooker put on a surprising performance and John Lithgow play a excellent villain ! The music is fantastic especially the theme ! The movie is action packed and never dull ! If you are a Stallone fan then watch Cliffhanger , you won't be disappointed !
First Blood is a classic !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Some minor spoilersFirst Blood has been one of MY favorite movies for a long time like ever since it came out . The poster of Stallone with the machine gun and being in the storm with lightning bolts is so cool . I just love looking at it . The movie itself is a classic . I don't know what it is but First Blood is special to ME . I feel sorry Stallone when he comes to town and finds out the bad news and the way Sheriff Brian Dennehy and his deputies treats him and I love it when Colonel Richard Crenna is around , he is justy super in First Blood . Keep you eye out for a very Chris Mulkey and David Caruso , they look like they are kids ! Mulkey is very agressive in this movie . There is lots of action and violence in First Blood . The music is by Jerry Goldsmith and its great ! Buy the score ! I adore it ! Don't pass this movie up its a good one and you'll probaly want to watch it again . There are two sequels to First Blood , Rambo : First Blood Part II and Rambo III . They are good but First Blood is the best of all three in MY opinion and one of the best period !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Triple Crossed . In this short are the beautiful Connie Cezan , Diana Darrin , Mary Ainslee , and Angela Stevens . The acting by these actresses are good especially by Cezan . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
The Negotiator !	The Negotiator is an excellent action film in My opinion ! Samuel L . Jackson and Kevin Spacey have great performances ! Big David Morse also was very good and so was J . T . Walsh and Paul Giamatti ! Also good in the movie are Ron Rifkin and John Spencer . The movie boasts a lot of great acting , exciting action and mystery ! The direction by F . Gary Gray is very good and I love the the close ups of the actors because in My opinion it make the film much more intense ! The music by Graeme Revell is very good . If you like the cast mentioned above and thrilling action films with great suspense then i strongly recommend that you watch The Negotiator today !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts ! This one is with Shemp ! Dick Wessel performs good here as a gentleman and as rugged boxer . Frank Sully was good as the villain . Cy Schindell also was good . Also in this short is Claire Carleton , Heinie Conklin , Joe Palma , Sammy Stein , and Tom Kingston . There is another Three Stooges short with Shemp very similar like this one called Fright Night . I strongly recommend both !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short . Richard Fiske performs really good here . Lynton Brent , Evelyn Young Wife , Johnny Kascier , Philip Van Zandt , Charles Dorety , Eddie Laughton , Cy Schindell , and John Tyrrell are also in this and all of them are good in this one ! This is a funny one . The beginning of it is really hilarious ! I think that this is one of the underrated Three Stooges shorts . Its really good and I recommend this one !
Very good Vincent Price movie !	House of Wax is pretty good Vincent Price movie ! He looked really awesome ! To Me the movie isn't scary as it is more of a mystery horror ! Price acted very well , a great performance from one of the masters of horror ! The other cast was fine and the music was good ! The fight scenes were good ! Vincent Price fans , see House of Wax soon !
Good spooky film ! Keaton is excellent !	White Noise is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Michael Keaton , Chandra West , Deborah Kara Unger , Ian McNeice , Sarah Strange , Nicholas Elia , Mike Dopud , Marsha Regis , Brad Sihvon , Mitchell Kosterman , L . Harvey Gold , Amber Rothwell , Suzanne Ristic , and Keegan Connor Tracy . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Keaton is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Claude Foisy and good directing by Geoffrey Sax . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael Keaton , Chandra West , Deborah Kara Unger , Ian McNeice , Sarah Strange , Nicholas Elia , Mike Dopud , Marsha Regis , Brad Sihvon , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Monster in the Closet !	Monster in the Closet is a hilarious horror movie that's serious ! There is an all-star cast , it has no gore , it has good music , and the movie is just plain silly fun ! I really like the monster ! He is played by the late great Kevin Peter Hall ! The monster is unstoppable and the noises he makes with his inner jaw is amazing ! The movie is very good and if you want to watch a silly horror film then watch Monster in the Closet !
Good movie ! One of Gibson's best ! The action is really rough !	Payback is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Mel Gibson , Gregg Henry , Maria Bello , David Paymer , Bill Duke , Deborah Kara Unger , John Glover , William Devane , Lucy Liu , Jack Conley , Kris Kristofferson , Elizabeth Berridge , David Tweet , Sterling Wolfe , and James Coburn ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Gibson , Henry , Bello , Duke , Glover , Devane , Lui , Conley , Kristofferson , and Corburn are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . There is some unintentional hilarious moments in this dark picture ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is very good by Chris Boardman . Great directing by Brian Helgeland ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Mel Gibson , Gregg Henry , Maria Bello , David Paymer , Bill Duke , Deborah Kara Unger , John Glover , William Devane , Lucy Liu , Jack Conley , Kris Kristofferson , James Coburn , Action , Crime , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Resident Evil : The Movie ! ! !	Minor SpoilersI am a big Resident Evil fan and I admit without the characters in the game such as Leon and Claire it wasn't as close to the game but it was pretty good . The middle and end parts were the best and I really digged the end ! It was so awesome the way she walked out of the facility with that big gun and the city is dead ! It was executed perfectly ! The scene really rulez ! The Zombies were just like they were in the game , the Zombie dogs were really cool , and the Licker was totally grossout-cool ! Milla Jovovich looked like a different person after she got wet and I think she looks alot better like that and Michelle Rodriguez , did she have a bad attitude or what ? The prologue was just like the game and I can't wait for Resident Evil 2 : Nemesis !
Hilarious one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This one here is one of the funniest and cool Three Stooges shorts ever ! I love the dance Curly has with Dorothy Appleby and the all of the scenes with Eddie Laughton ! Look for Bud Jamison , Vernon Dent , Symona Boniface , John Tyrrell , and Victor Travers ! The music in this short film is excellent ! I strongly recommend this classic !
The Glimmer Man ! Second Comment !	In this comment I wanted to say that I just love the feel of this movie ! How it starts with the WB logo and that awesome music playing ! The score is tremendous ! The movie is perfect in My opinion . I love the direction and editing . The action is very paced and the movie is as well . It goes by so fast because of the uniqueness it delivers ! This I feel is Steven Seagal's best film . With his good acting and the emotion he shows during the scenes when he goes to his deceased wife's house and when he is in the church . What also makes this movie good is the villain play by John M . Jackson . He is very colorful . Also the appearances by Michelle Johnson , Bob Gunton , Brian Cox , Richard Gant , Stephen Tobolowsky , Peter Jason , Ryan Cutrona , and Dennis Cockrum ! Awesome music by Trevor Rabin too ! I really love The Glimmer Man . It has many exciting fights and just very good moments . In My opinion I think it one of if not the best movies around ! That's all I can explain about it . I love Seagal and The Glimmer Man ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you are big Steven Seagal fan like Me then I strongly recommend you to check out these other great movies ! Above the Law , Hard to Kill , Marked for Death ( Must see because it great ! ) , Out for Justice ( Great ! ) , Under Siege , On Deadly Ground ( Really good ! ) , Under Siege 2 : Dark Territory ( Very good ! ) , Fire Down Below ( Excellent ! ) , The Patriot , Ticker , The Foreigner ( Surprising great ! ) , Out for a Kill , Belly of the Beast , and Into the Sun ( Great sword fighting ) !
Paycheck !	One of the most thrilling and exciting action films ever in My opinion is Paycheck ! The movie stars Ben Affleck , Aaron Eckhart , Uma Thurman , Paul Giamatti , Colm Feore , Joe Morton , and Michael C . Hall ! All of these actors acted very well . Eckhart has a great performance as a villain and he has a phenomenal presence in this film . Feore also has a good performance as a villain . All of the characters are really good . The action is really incredible . I was amazed by the chase scenes ! The music by Media Venture John Powell is great and its arguably his greatest score to date ! The film is directed excellently by John Woo and this maybe the best film that he has directed in My opinion ! If you Ben Affleck , and want to see Aaron Eckhart in a great performance and want to see an exciting action Sci-Fi film then I strongly recommend that you see Paycheck today !
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Great movie !	This true story is very good . Val Kilmer and Michael Douglas and the rest of the cast is very good . The film is superb when it comes to the views of Africa and it is scary . There is one funny part too and I'll talk about that in a minute . To Me it was really wired why the Lions did what they did . The music by Jerryn Goldsmith is great ! Now onto the funny part . I always laugh when Remington and Samuel were talking . It goes like this Charles Remington : I'm always considerate . It's something my mother taught me . Samuel laughs . Charles Remington : Why do you laugh ? You don't think I'm considerate ? Samuel : I don't believe you had a mother . If you like spooky animal films and especially if there true then this is a great one to watch !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts ! This one is with Shemp ! Dick Wessel performs good here as a gentleman and as rugged boxer . Tiny Brauer was great as the villain . Cy Schindell also was good . Also in this short is Claire Carleton , Stanley Blystone , Heinie Conklin , Dave Harper , Sammy Stein , and Tom Kingston . There is another Three Stooges short with Shemp very similar like this one called Fling in the Ring . I strongly recommend both !
WCW Clash of the Champions !	This was one of the coolest things about World Championship Wrestling was their special WCW Clash of the Champions show that would air a couple times a year on TBS the Superstation and feature many of the top WCW superstars in big time matches and all of the current champions at the time of the event . Their were many , many classic match ups on this program until WCW was no more . I really miss this show and even more WCW . The program aired from 1988 to 1997 . If you are a classic wrestling fan like I am and are able to watch any of the Clash of the Champions editions on tape somehow do so because it was a classic and in My opinion there will never be a show like it again ! I strongly recommend it !
A great fantasy movie !	Krull is an excellent Sci-Fi action fantasy adventure ! Ken Marshall was a good choice to play the hero ! Lysette Anthony was good . Alun Armstrong and Liam Neeson were really good ! In My opinion I think Neeson would have done a good performance as the hero if he was chosen to be the hero ! There is a lot of action and the special effects are spectacular ! The evil soldier or slayers were really cool and when they got killed they yelled similar like the ones in Flash Gordon ! The beast was awesome ! Beautiful music by James Horner ! I wouldn't say it is the all time greatest in cinema history but it is one of the greatest ! This is a fantastic and classic film of the 1980s ! If you like fantasy action movies check out Krull ! Movie Nuttball's note : If you like Krull check out the following movies : Flash Gordon , Clash of the Titans , Legend , The NeverEnding Story , Willow , The Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers !
Great film !	Carlito's Way is a very different film that has a good cast which includes Al Pacino , Sean Penn , Penelope Ann Miller , John Leguizamo , Ingrid Rogers , Luis Guzmán , James Rebhorn , Joseph Siravo , and Viggo Mortensen ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Pacino is really excellent in this film . Mortensen and Ann Miller are as well . The suspense is really good and the action scenes are very good . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Patrick Doyle . Brian De Palma directed the film excellently ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the last moment . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Al Pacino , Sean Penn , Penelope Ann Miller , and the rest of the cast in the film , action thrillers , dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend this film !
The Original Planet of the Apes !	The original Planet of the Apes is a classic ! The whole movie is great . The apes especially for the time it was made looked very real . Charelton Heston put on a fantastic performance . The music by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith is very different but yet a superb score ! I really like this film and the new 2001 version as well but I really can't say which one is My favorite . If haven't seen the original go check it out !
The Bourne Identity is a cool action movie !	The Bourne Identity is superb movie with great action and suspense ! Matt Damon is really a action hero in this film and in My opinion he could be a new action star . Franka Potente was very good and she is a promising actress if she is the good roles . Chris Cooper was very good . Brian Cox was very good and he looked different than he did in earlier films . Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje was good but the role he was given didn't allow him to do much but he is becoming one of My favorite actors . TBI is a very good film with some great action scenes that I never saw before ! If you like Matt Damon and spy films then go rent The Bourne Identity !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most unique Three Stooges shorts is Nutt But Nice . In this short are Vernon Dent , Lynton Brent , Cy Schindell , John Tyrrell , and Bert Young . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent and Schindell . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
All of the Monsters are here ! ! ! !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Some minor spoilersA monster fan's dream ! Dracula , Frankenstein , The Wolfman , The Mummy , and The Creature From The Black Lagoon is all here ! Everyone who plays as the monsters is very good . The costumes and fx looks are right on the mark . The kids and everybody else is ok to although I would have had the the cop's partner a little smarther than that . The german is ok too . The beginning is just a treat to see and how the monsters are introduced to us is just totally awesome man I mean its just so good to watch and it seems very real aswell . I was so thrilled when this movie was made and they havn't made a movie like this ever since . The monsters in this movie are as great as they come . Arguably MY favorite monster in this movie is the wolfman , I like how he acts and portrays his role . Its just a good good movie .
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
My favorite Three Stooges movie !	This is My favorite Three Stooges feature film . The intro is very good and the Stooges are as funny as ever . The settings are very good and the music is very good . I think all Three Stooges fans with like this movie !
Killer Klowns from Outer Space !	Killer Klowns from Outer Space is a cool and hilarious film ! This film stars the legendary Royal Dano , John Vernon , Grant Cramer , Suzanne Snyder , and John Allen Nelson . The actors act good in the film . Dano is hilarious and is such a unique actor . Vernon is really excellent here in a great role . As for the Killer Klowns , they have very good personalities and they are neat looking . They are very intelligent and funny . Klownzilla , the King Klown was really a surprise how awesome he is ! I love these Klowns ! If you like to see Klowns in a different fashion and see Royal Dano and John Vernon in the same film then I strongly recommend this classic ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Evolution , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
An awesome film ! The music in Impostor !	I love this film ! Gary Sinise is great in Impostor ! Vincent D'Onofrio was very good . Madeleine Stowe looked good and the rest of the cast was good . The chase and action scenes are good and I really like the camera effort in this film . This film has a very surprising end ! The music is very cool and it has one of the best themes in My opinion ! You can really enjoy it through out the credits ! Anybody who likes Gary Sinise and sci-fi alien films will like Impostor ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
This Gamera movie is great !	I am a huge Gamera fan , I grew up with Gmaera , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well . Like Godzilla , Gamera is an icon ! This Gamera film is a great one . This is the one that started it all ! Titled in the U . S . as " Gammera The Invincible stars Brian Donlevy . The story is very good and I really love the way Gamera looks in this film . I love it when he roars and walks around . The acting by the film's human stars are also very good . The beginning of the film is incredible and it is just awesome seeing Gamera for the first time in the film . The special effects in My opinion are great . I really love this Gamera film for many reasons and its arguably the best of the series ! Its truly a wonderful film ! If you love Gamera and Godzilla films I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Gammera The Invincible today !
Truly one of the greatest films ever made and is one of the best movies of all time !	Minor SpoilersI finally got to see the Lord of the Rings a few days ago in the theatre and I must I was very thrilled see a huge movie of this stature . For months I wanted to see this because of several reasons but the biggest one of them was Christopher Lee ! I knew he was going to be awesome in this movie which he was . This cast was great and it was a treat seeing Ian Holm in it aswell . I knew LOTR was going to be one of the greatest movies ever and I just love the scenery in this movie and the special effects were flawless and it has great music by Howard Shore . There was so much in the three hour movie that I can't explain it all but I will say it has great battles and sword fights , and seeing the variety of character is neat like wizards , trolls , dwarfs , hobbits , elvs , and among other creatures and a awesome prolouge . This in MY opinion ranks up in the greatest of films and this is on MY favorites list now just not fantasy movies like Willow and Legend but other of MY favorites like other great films such The Mummy / The Mummy Returns , Planet of the Apes ( 2001 ) , Jurassic Park trilogy , Star Wars ( all four of them ) , Gladiator , Terminator 2 , Predator , and others . I just can't wait for the sequels to come . Be sure to get all of the LOTR action figures by Toy Biz and they look great ! I was very happy to see this film and I hope everyone gets a chance to see this epic !
Mummies : The Real Story !	This is a very good video . This program aired on TLC and I believe the Discovery Channel a few years ago . I think that this program is a very interesting and informal one and it is narrated excellently by Brenden Fraser . It shows many mummified people that are hundreds and thousands of years old from all over the world including many parts in Egypt , China , Urope , and Chile to name just a few of the countries these mummies are from . I think it is amazing the way these ancient were people mummified . This video really fascinating . In My opinion to watch this you must like to see mummies and interesting things because all of this is real and these mummies really look like the way they do so if you like to see real mummies and to know their origins then check out this amazing feature today !
A very good Bio-film of the legendary Bruce Lee !	I saw this film a long time ago and bought it at the video many , many years ago ! I loved it that much . The star maybe not Bruce Lee but is very exciting when it comes to the Martial Arts action . If you ever come across this film either rent or if it were possible to buy it then do so because this film is a treasure to have just not for Bruce Lee fans but Martial Arts fans as well ! Its a great movie !
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Great movie !	Stay Tuned is a excellent movie ! John Ritter , Pam Dawber , and Eugene Levy was good . Jeffrey Jones performed well . I like how the film was made . The scenes were really cool and the segment of Duane's Underworld was really funny ! The wrestling match segment was awesome ! George Gray played Mr . Gorgan . He was better known in the old wrestling days ( when it was special in My opinion ) of the WCW in the early 1990s as The One Man Gang and in the old WWF days in the 1980s as The One Man Gang and " The African Dream " Akeem ! It was so cool seeing this 6'6 , 400 plus pound wrestler because he is one of My all time favorites and also it was good to see Captain Lou Albano ! Good music by Bruce Broughton and direction by Peter Hyams ! Anyway , there is a whole bunch in the movie and is all I can say is that if you like Ritter , Dawber , Levy , and Jones and want a wild ride of a movie then I suggest you see Stay Tuned !
Straight Shooter !	Straight Shooter is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Dennis Hopper , Heino Ferch , Katja Flint , Hannelore Hoger , Ulrich Mühe , Jürgen Schornagel , Bernhard Bettermann , Maximillian Beckmann , Bianca Brad , Georg Blumreiter , Klaus Czizek , Walter Gontermann , Holger von Hartlieb , Stefan Hunstein , Nadine Klante , and Nicole Leòn . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Hopper is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . I couldn't help but laugh at the dubbing ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you Dennis Hopper , Heino Ferch , Katja Flint , Hannelore Hoger , Ulrich Mühe , Jürgen Schornagel , Bernhard Bettermann , Maximillian Beckmann , Bianca Brad , Georg Blumreiter , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Mystery , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Cookoo Cavaliers !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Cookoo Cavaliers is a funny one ! The fish sale scenes are good . In the beauty salon scenes is where all of the big time hilarious stuff happens ! Especially all of the scenes when the Stooges are working on Dorothy Appleby ! Lynton Brent is in the short and his accent is sounds realistic ! I recommend this Three Stooges short , Cookoo Cavaliers !
One of the funniest Three Stooges episodes !	This ancient Rome short is hilarious ! I love the dinner table scenes and also the scenes with Vernon Dent . The armor and clothes looked realistic . The things the Stooges do in their store is hysterically funny ! This is a great one to watch !
Really cool spooky movie !	Boogeyman is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Barry Watson , Emily Deschanel , Skye McCole Bartusiak , Tory Mussett , Andrew Glover , Lucy Lawless , Charles Mesure , Gordon , Aaron Murphy , Jennifer Rucker , Scott Wills , Michael Saccente , Louise Wallace , Brenda Simmons , Josie Tweed , Ian Campbell , and Robyn Malcolm . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Watson and Deschanel are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . I love the Gladiator-esquire camera work ! I also love the spooky park and wind scenes ! The music is very good by Joseph LoDuca . Great directing by Stephen T . Kay ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Barry Watson , Emily Deschanel , Skye McCole Bartusiak , Tory Mussett , Andrew Glover , Lucy Lawless , Charles Mesure , Gordon , Aaron Murphy , Jennifer Rucker , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most unique Three Stooges shorts is Sweet and Hot . In this short is Muriel Landers . The acting by this unusual actress is great ! There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts and it very good . I strongly recommend this one !
Cool classic ! The creature is unreal !	The Brainiac is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Abel Salazar , Ariadna Welter , David Silva , Germán Robles , Luis Aragón , Mauricio Garcés , Ofelia Guilmáin , René Cardona , Rubén Rojo , Rosa María Gallardo , Susana Cora , Roxana Bellini , and Magda Urvizu ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . I like how the Brainiac is and the noises that he makes makes ! It really wold ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Abel Salazar , Ariadna Welter , David Silva , Germán Robles , Luis Aragón , Mauricio Garcés , Ofelia Guilmáin , René Cardona , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I got this film on a special DVD that has Doctor Blood's Coffin , The Brainiac , and The Fury of the Wolfman from Vintage Home Entertainment ! See if you can find this winner with three bizarre but classic films on one DVD at Amazon . com today !
One of the best horror movies ever !	The Fly series is a remarkable one that makes sense , if a scientist actually had a teleportation pod or some type of machine this is the way it would happen n real life . The movies are jam packed with great acting , action , effects , superb horror and excellent gore . Both movies are very unpredictable and very scary and both films follow right after the other and both main cast in The Fly / Fly II have love interests ( Fly I , Goldblum and Davis , Fly II , Stotlz and Zuniga ) which is pretty cool . All in all The Fly series is a fantastic series of the 80s ( which was a great decade I might add ) . In MY opinion there will never be movies like this again , they are classics , a real thrilling horror series . When the last time you got scared of a movie ? ? ? Heres a tip : DON'T WATCH THEM IN THE DARK ! ! ! The Fly part 2 has a great beginning much like its predecessor with a great promo . You get to know Seth's ( Goldblum in Fly 1 ) son Martin ( Stoltz ) as he goes on with life much faster than everyone else . You feel sorry for him as well much like Goldblum in the first movie . You also feel sorry for Beth ( Zuniga ) as she trys to help martin . Yes its true Strathis ( Getz ) reprises his roleThere are lots of doctors and security guards you just hate because of what they do to martin . Once martin evolves into the Fly , all hell breaks loose . You never know what is going to happen next . This is really one heck of monster movie and you won't believe what you'll see ! By the way , listen to music score by Christopher Young , it really makes this movie even better . When you here the main title theme you think holytoledo , this is really gonna be good and you know what ? It is , I suggest you buy buy the score , you'll love it ! The film is great , like the other a bit sad but very good . The Fly II is an excellent horror movie ! The acting by Eric Stoltz was really good ! The part with the dog was sad but you can tell its animatronic . The real horror begins when Martin discovers the camera in his room ! His transformation is really gruesome . I think the fly monster is one of the most terrifying monsters ever ! I just love the score by Christopher Young ! The music is beautiful , dark , and aggressive ! My favorite part is the main titles ! It is one of the greatest songs ever composed in My opinion ! I liked in the main title how the credit says the Fly II in nice and bright blue letters ! The Fly II is My favorite of the Fly movies and even though Jeff Goldblum acted superbly in the first , the sequel has some big time moments ! Speaking of Goldblum , he has two archive footage scenes in the film ! Some of today's horror movie are very good but there hasn't been a movie like the Fly II since it came out . In My opinion , if your looking for a great horror movie then this is it ! Horror movies just ain't made like this often ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : As you know I love the music and in fact I adore the score to the Fly II ! There is a special edition CD of the score . It contains the score of the Fly and the Fly II ! If you are a fan of the scores I recommend that you get it ! It is well worth the buy !
Cool film !	I really like Attack of the Super Monsters . I thought it was neat to have a cartoon and Godzilla like monsters in one film . The story is good . I thought it was a good idea to have film like this and if you haven't seen this and are able to find it then do so because I don't think you'll regret it !
Great Three Stooges short ! Bud Jamison is great !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of The Three Stooges ' best western shorts ! Its very funny . Bud Jamison puts on a fantastic performance ! His accent is very authentic and his personality is cool . There are many hilarious scenes here including the fishing scenes ! I seriously recommend this Three Stooges short to all Three Stooges fans !
One of the greatest movies of all time !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . E . T . the Extra Terrestrial is a powerful and magical film that I feel is arguably Steven Spielberg's best film ! It has a lot of emotion even in the scenes that are not emotional ! What makes this effect work in the movie even better is John Williams ' incredible score ! E . T . I believe is arguably his greatest score ! I love the views of the sky and how beautiful the stars look and those trees are awesome ! Even today this film is wonderful . I don't think there will be anything like it again ! If you like Spielberg , Williams , & Alien movies then you must see this incredible movie called E . T . the Extra Terrestrial ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , Contact , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Jeepers Creepers II ! An excellent sequel !	Jeepers Creepers 2 is one heck of a horror movie ! I love the first one and this was a must see ! The sequel did not disappoint Me at all ! Ray Wise had a very good performance ! Jonathan Breck was excellent as the Creeper ! The Creeper is such an unusual character / monster ! There is much we know about him but then there's so much more we don't know about him ! The Creeper has such a raw but interesting personality ! I really liked the chemistry Diane Delano , Thom Gossom Jr . , and Tom Tarantini had together ! When they are on screen it makes the movie really good ! I like the attention to the sky when the Creeper would fly ! It was so neat seeing the stars and the moon ! That radio report was something else ! I really liked how they talked about the burned church as it helps the movie tell what happened in the first ! A very clever idea ! The music by Bennett Salvay is excellent once again ! There are some scary and surprising moments in this film and you don't know who the Creeper will get next ! In My opinion there are some original and bizarre scenes and like him or not Victor Salva did an excellent job at directing this motion picture ! I hope there will be a third film ! If you liked the first one and have not seen this one or if you haven't seen the prequel and are thinking about seeing both movies then I recommend you see the first and then the second ! I strongly recommend Jeepers Creepers and Jeepers Creepers II !
Awesome movie ! My favorite of the M : I series so far ! Zimmer's and Gerrard's score is just excellent !	Mission : Impossible II is a very good film that has a great cast including Tom Cruise , Dougray Scott , Thandie Newton , Ving Rhames , Richard Roxburgh , John Polson , Brendan Gleeson , Rade Serbedzija , William Mapother , Dominic Purcell , Matthew Wilkinson , Nicholas Bell , Cristina Brogers , Kee Chan , Billy Morts , Tory Mussett , and Anthony Hopkins ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Cruise , Scott , Newton , Rhames , Roxburgh , Gleeson , Serbedzija , and Hopkins all have excellent performances ! The action and thrills is just phenomenal ! The movie is filmed greatly ! The music is great by Hans Zimmer and Lisa Gerrard ! Just great directing by John Woo ! He is one of My favorites ! This is My favorite of the Mission : Impossible series so far ! the movie takes a new a direction with Woo on board ! I love the scenes when Niya takes the Chimra , the confrontation with Hunt and Ambrose , and the fight between Hunt and Ambrose ! When Niya injects herself this is the scene that changes the rest of the movie in My opinion ! It just awesome and Zimmer's and Gerrard's score makes it so good ! The film is quite interesting and exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Tom Cruise , Dougray Scott , Thandie Newton , Ving Rhames , Richard Roxburgh , John Polson , Brendan Gleeson , Rade Serbedzija , Dominic Purcell , Tory Mussett , Anthony Hopkins , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a hilarious Three Stooges short in My opinion . The Stooges are so funny . Jean Carmen , Lucille Lund , and Earlene Heath all perform well and they look excellent ! Bud Jamison and James C . Morton were good . Also appearing is Bobby Burns ! There is another Three Stooges short with Shemp very similar like this one called A Missed Fortune . I strongly recommend both !
Good violent movie !	Reservoir Dogs is a great movie . It has an all star cast and all of them are great ! The film has a lot of violence and bad language but I couldn't help but laugh at it . All of the scenes are performed very well . Pulp Fiction is ok but I like this one much better . The Reservoir Dogs is indeed a classic !
One of the best animated cartoons !	This Garfield short I love ! It is a terrific Halloween show and the first time I saw it many years ago I was very surprised about what happened in the old house and it is actually scary ! Lorenzo Music was very good as the fat cat Garfield and he is just hilarious in this one ! Thom Huge was good as John and Binky the Clown ! If you love the season of Halloween and autumn time then this is the perfect animated feature to watch !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
One of the best of the year !	Ladder 49 is a great film that has a great cast including Joaquin Phoenix , John Travolta , Jacinda Barrett , Robert Patrick , Morris Chestnut , Billy Burke , Balthazar Getty , Tim Guinee , Kevin Chapman , Jay Hernandez , Kevin Daniels , Steve Maye , Robert Lewis , Brooke Hamlin , and Spencer Berglund ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Phoenix and Travolta provide really good performances in this picture ! I was surprise how well Barrett did and Patrick did a good job as well ! Was it Me or did Getty look almost identical like Charlie Sheen ? The emotion and thrills is really good here and a lot of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Willaim Roos ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This really an entertaining , exciting , and thrilling film . The film should get nominated for best picture ! I mean in My opinion its one of the best of the year ! If you like Joaquin Phoenix , John Travolta , Jacinda Barrett , Robert Patrick , Morris Chestnut , Billy Burke , Balthazar Getty , Tim Guinee , Kevin Chapman , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Drama , Thriller , and interesting movies similar like the great Backdraft then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The 13th Warrior is a great sword fighting film !	The 13th Warrior is a great sword fighting film that Antonio Banderas and Omar Sharif ! The rest of the cast is good . It has great scenery and sword fights and great music by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith ! The 13th Warrior is a must see for all movie fans !
Very good movie !	Firestorm is an good action film that casts Howie Long , Scott Glenn , William Forsythe , Suzy Amis , Barry Pepper , and Vladimir Kulich ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Long was very good in the film . Forsythe and Kulich were excellent in this film . The action is really good and the fire scenes are really are really excellent . The film is very exciting and the music by J . Peter Robinson is good . The film is directed by underrated film maker Dean Semler and in My opinion he did a fine job . This is a good and thrilling film . If you like Howie Long , Scott Glenn , William Forsythe and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Vernon Dent , Charles Dorety , Bud Jamison , Ethelreda Leopold , Theodore Lorch , Cy Schindell , Blackie Whiteford , Harley Wood , and Bert Young ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . I strongly recommend this Three Stooges short !
One of the funniest movies of all time !	Dennis the Menace is a great hilarious movie . The music composed by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith is perfect especially for the scene when we fist see Christopher Lloyd . The cast is great and it was great seeing Llyod and Lea Thomson in the same film again ala the Back to the Future trilogy . Walter Matthau , Joan Plowright , and Paul Winfield were very good and I think it was a fine choice of putting Mason Gamble for the menace job as Dennis . The film has non-stop laughs especially the scenes with Matthau and I just love the scene when the end credits are playing . If you want to laugh look no further than Dennis the Menace !
A great movie !	Link is a very good film . The acting by Elisabeth Shue and Terence Stamp was very good especially by Stamp but the real stars of the movie are the apes ! The great ape that played Link was excellent ! I couldn't help but laugh at him because of the way he acts , the things he does , the faces he makes , and the way he moves . I know it isn't suppose to be funny but he makes this classic a very serious but a hilarious film ! The chase scenes with Link were cool ! The music by Jerry Goldsmith is excellent ! A very good theme he composed and the entire score is perfect for the movie ! Link is great and is an entertaining movie ! I strongly Recommend it !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Good Popeye animated series !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Arguably the greatest Superhero movie ever ! Arguably the best movie of the year ! Extremely exciting ! Everything in this movie is PERFECT !	I had the chance to see The Fantastic Four on / 05 and I was totally blown away ! For months I dreamed of seeing this film and now the task is complete ! I am a big time F4 fan and love the characters and I love the actors and actresses that made them real ! I'll go by steps of the big time things that happen in the movie and a little more so without a further a do ! The Beginning : I loved it when the 20th Century Fox logo came and then the Marvel logo appeared with F4 comic pages turning by and hearing John Ottman's excellent score ! The movie begins quite differently with only the title and no credits ! The Story : I love how the story surrounds the viewer with five main people . Reed and his old girlfriend Sue , her new fiancé Victor , her brother Johnny , and their friend Ben . Just fantastic ! Actors & Acting : Ioan Gruffudd as Reed Richards : I was surprised by this actor I am really not familiar with . He really has good talents . He resembles MLB's Tino Martinez and actor Gary Sinese in My opinion . I think he was the perfect choice to play Mr . Fantastic ! Whenever something happens he makes it so believable because of the looks he gets on his face and such . He's just a very talented actor ! Jessica Alba as Sue Storm : Not just a beauty but also a very good actress ! She was really something here . So convincing ! She was a very good choice to play the Invisible Woman ! Chris Evans as Johnny Storm : Another good choice ! Actually I feel nobody could of pulled off this role as the Human Torch ! Michael Chiklis as Ben Grimm : Just excellent ! I never did give any credit to this actor in the past but now I see that this man is full of talent ! I felt sorry for him as the Thing and actually had tears in My eyes when his girlfriend left him . The Thing suit works out really well believe it or not . They could have chosen CGI but this worked out ! He reminded Me a little bit of the Hulk but the Thing is a totally different character . Like the others he to is very convincing ! Julian McMahon as Victor Von Doom : My favorite in the movie ! Though I am not familiar with him but also like Gruffudd I am an instant fan of his ! He was the absolute perfect choice to play Dr . Doom ! His looks are very neat and right away I knew that he was going to be a top notch villain ! As the film went on as Victor Von Doom got more power hungry the more I liked him ! When he became Dr . Doom he really changed into a menacing foe and had a really big presence throughout the last fifteen minutes of the film . He is just excellent in this film ! Kerry Washington as Alicia Masters : This actress was really good . The Action & Special Effects : The movie so exciting in many different departments and action is one of them . The action is just unbelievable ! Mr . Fantastic's stretching , Johnny's flame on , Sue's invisible powers , Grimm's looks , and Dr . Doom's lighting bolts are all so magnificently superb ! The Scenes : There were many scenes that I thought were really good . The entire bridge scene was just really cool , the small fight between The Thing and Mr . Fantastic , I laughed at all of the humor between the Thing and Johnny and of course the fight between Dr . Doom and the Fantastic Four at the end ! That was awesome ! But the cosmic storm scene was extraordinary ! It was so emotional seeing the huge storm hit the four of them . That was really a one of a kind scene ! One of the greatest scenes ever in My opinion ! That's all I can explain about it ! The Musical Score : This is one of the reasons what makes the film so spectacular ! This is arguably John Ottman's greatest score to date and possibly ever ! Every scene the score is played is just right ! He should definitely get nominated for best score at the Oscars ! The Directing : Tim Story is a great director and I just love the way he made this film ! Final : Its just a spectacular film ! It has very good actors , great characters , great character development , great special effects , a tremendous musical score that's one of the best I have ever heard , and great directing ! So I don't know why everybody is complaining . I have seen what I call the big four which are Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith , Batman Begins , War of the Worlds , and now Fantastic Four ! All of them are outstanding and does not deserve any negativity ! I'd love a sequel to the F4 and I hope everyone returns ! I really like the people in this one ! I also hope Ottman and Story returns as well ! I want this movie to become a saga ! I'd also love see other Marvel characters join this team in movies like the X-Men and Spider-man and what about crossovers like the Fantastic Four and Superman ? I'm ready for more Marvel and DC ! F4 2 , Hulk 2 , X-Men 3 , Spider-Man 3 , Blade 4 , Daredevil and Elektra 2 , and what about Iron Man , Ghost Rider , She-Hulk , Thor , Alpha Flight , and so much more ! Imagine the possibilities ! Bring it all on ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Before the film began I saw the trailers to Ice Age 2 : The Meltdown , New World , and the Transporter 2 ! All look really good ! There is a scene when Chris Evens holds a Toy Biz World Wide Marvel Legend Action figure of the Thing ! If you like Marvel Comic movies then I recommend The Punisher ( 1989 & 2004 ) , The X-Men , X2 : X-Men United , Spider-Man , Spider-Man 2 , Daredevil , Elektra , and The Hulk !
Classic animated Movie !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Great entertaining action film ! Stallone and Snipes look awesome !	The film boasts some incredible action and fights with good acting and some humor ! Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes have some really cool characters ! Sandra Bullock , Dennis Leary , Glenn Shadix , and Bob Gunton were all good ! I was disappointed that Jesse Ventura didn't speak and didn't have a fight Stallone . Its really a different film with much excitement to satisfy the big action fan ! If you like Stallone and Snipes then this is one film that you must see !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is Beer and Pretzels . In this short are Ted Healy and Bonnie Bonnell . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Great one !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . The big G is joined by Angilas and he is great and I love it when he roars as well ! As for his enemies Gigan and King Ghidorah , they too is awesome . I love it when they roar . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . Gigan today !
The Latest James Bond film is a good one !	The World is Not Enough is a good Bond film as it has lots of action like it prequels . The villain ( s ) are good this time around . Pierce Brosnan is good as always Bond , James Bond and Samantha Bond as Moneypenny was good . All James Bond fans should like this one . Die Another Day should be another great Bond film when it arrives in theatres November 22nd , 2002 . Notes : The theme song is a great one by Garbage . I love it when she says The World Is Not Enough . Its just perfect for a 007 film ! The video features a special look at Desmond Llewelyn as the James Bond 007 character Q . It is a sad feature indeed .
The Great Outdoors !	The Great Outdoors is excellent comedy with a great cast which includes Dan Aykroyd , John Candy , Stephanie Faracy , Annette Bening , Robert Prosky , and John Bloom ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Aykroyd has a great performance and Candy is really wonderful in the movie . Faracy and Bening are also very good . I think that Candy and Faracy were excellent together as a couple . The music by Thomas Newman is good . The film is very exciting and its just so hilarious the entire time . This really is great comedy and in My opinion its a classic ! If you love John Candy , Dan Aykroyd , and the rest of the cast mentioned and great comedies then I Strongly recommend this film ! MovieNuttball's NOTE : If you love John Candy then I recommend that you see the following films : Summer Rental , Armed and Dangerous , Spaceballs , Who's Harry Crumb ? , and Uncle Buck !
Ice Age !	This is a fantastic animated movie starring Denis Leary , John Leguizamo , and Ray Romano . Leary plays the Saber-Tooth Tiger Diego , Romano play the huge Wooly Mammoth , and Leguizamo plays the Prehistoric Sloth . All of these actors play these wonderful characters excellently ! Each and every individual has a great personality and they look accurate and real . The animation is flawless ! It crisp , clean , and clear ! Just beautiful ! Everything looks so realistic ! The movie is hilarious as well . The bonus animated short called Scrat's Missing Adventure is a very funny treat ! The music by David Newman is very good . If you are fan of the cast mentioned above and like the animated feature Dinosaur then I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy this wonderful film today !
Stephen King's The Green Mile !	Stephen King's Green Mile is an excellent film ! Tom Hanks , David Morse , Michael Clark Duncan , James Cromwell , Barry Pepper , Michael Jeter , Harry Dean Stanton , William Sadler , Gary Sinise , and Jeffrey DeMunn put on strong performances ! In My opinion Duncan's was the best performer as he played his great character well ! The Green Mile is a great film ! I recommend this to everyone !
Great Mummy flick ! ! ! ! !	This is really a good Mummy movie . I admit that when I looked at the back of the box I didn't know what to think but being a huge fan of Mummy movies I had to rent it and I am glad I did . Ofcourse this is not like the Mummy with Brendan Frazier because it isn't suposse to be . This is the first or one of the first Mummy flicks I can recall about a Aztec Mummy . You get really use to this movie because the guys stay in one place and doesn't jump from city to city like other movies . I like films amd horror films that focus on in one place . As for the Mummy himself , he really isn't a bad looking mummy , he carrys his sacred stabbing weapon and as for the gore there really isn't any at all and the acting isn't bad either by the youngsters . In My opinion this movie is presented like a old late 30s , 40S flick , especialy the begaining of the movie when the credits are shown . Overall I like this movie . Here is a tip , when you watch the movie listen as close as you can to the music , the music I love and it fits perfectly , it is composed by new compposer Jared DePasquale . By listening to this you may want more of his music , I know I did .
The Santa Clause !	The Santa Clause films are a great and wonderful series of films that are excellent to watch around the holidays ! The Santa Clause stars Tim Allen , Wendy Crewson , Judge Reinhold , Eric Lloyd , Peter Boyle , and David Krumholtz . Tim Allen is excellent in this film . He's hilarious and a very realistic character . Peter Boyle is good in this film in a brief role . Crewson and Reinhold are good in this film together . The comedy scenes are very funny and the Santa Clause special effects are very good . The music is good as well . Really every thing is fine in this film ! If you are looking for a great Christmas film and if you like the cast mentioned above that I strongly recommend The Santa Clause !
Great classic !	An amazing little adventure is the film Bill and Coo ! In this underrated classic you see so many birds doing so many things its unbelievable ! Its really incredible seeing these little animals do all of these activities . There are many different kinds of species of birds here like the Ravens and Parakeets and among many other kinds . What is really good about this little film is that each bird has a character ! The little guys are just adorable nd so cute in My opinion . If you like to see movies that focus on animals that do all kinds of thing that'll make you laugh and would love to see a film that doesn't even touch CGI then I strongly recommend that you watch this classic today !
Great animated Disney film !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Bats !	I really like this film Bats ! Lou Diamond Phillips , Dina Meyer , Bob Gunton , and Leon stars in this picture . The movie in My opinion has non-stop Bat action ! The actors especially Phillips and Meyer have very good performances . I like the way the movie is filmed . Everything is bright and I think that the camera work is awesome ! The Bats are really neat and scary looking little creatures . I love the effects when they fly every where and across the moon ! The music by Graeme Revell is very good . Everything else is very good in this movie . I don't know why it is currently on the IMDb bottom 100 : # 84 . I have no clue . The film in My opinion has just about everything and the killer Bats are great ! I recommend everyone who loves monster films to ignore the bad rating and comments and watch Bats today because its great film and I strongly recommend it !
One of the greatest animated films of all time !	This animated film by Dreamworks is very funny and is fantastic ! It has an all-star cast which includes Sylvester Stallone , Sharon Stone , Gene Hackman , Christopher Walken , Jennifer Lopez , Woody Allen , Anne Bancroft , Jane Curtin , and Dan Akroyd ! All of the actors play their characters well and it is something else how these actors bring such much life and personality to these wonderful characters ! I thought it was amazing that Curtin and Akroyd was a couple again ! The animation is really incredible and I was amazed by the termite wars and the ant army marching scenes ! They are so cool ! The color is really clean and crisp and not to mention very clear . The story is very good and each and every character has their own personality . The music by Harry Gregson-Williams and John Powell is very good as well . If you love the cast mentioned above and animated films that are hilarious then I strongly recommend then you check out Ants today !
Great film !	Armageddon is a great film that has a great cast including Bruce Willis , Billy Bob Thornton , Ben Affleck , Liv Tyler , Will Patton , Steve Buscemi , William Fichtner , Owen Wilson , Michael Clarke Duncan , Peter Stormare , Keith David , Kimsey , Chris Ellis , Jason Isaacs , Udo Kier , Judith Hoag , Shawnee Smith , Lawrence Tierney , and Charleton Heston ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and special effects is great . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Trevor Rabin . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Bruce Willis , Billy Bob Thornton , Ben Affleck , Liv Tyler , Will Patton , Steve Buscemi , Owen Wilson , Michael Clarke Duncan , Peter Stormare , Keith David , the rest of the cast in the film , Sci-Fi , Action , Thriller , Diasaster , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Alamo !	The Alamo is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Dennis Quaid , Billy Bob Thornton , Jason Patric , Patrick Wilson , Emilio Echevarría , Jordi Mollà , Leon Rippy , Tom Davidson , Marc Blucas , Robert Prentiss , Kevin Page , Joe Stevens , Stephen Bruton , Laura Clifton , Ricardo Chavira , Steven Chester Prince , Craig Erickson , Nick Kokich , and Rance Howard ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Quaid is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . Billy Bob was very good . Jason Patric performed greatly in this film in My opinion ! This could be his greatest role to date ! The thrills and action is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Carter Burwell . Great directing by John Lee Hancock . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Dennis Quaid , Billy Bob Thornton , Jason Patric , Patrick Wilson , Emilio Echevarría , Jordi Mollà , Leon Rippy , Tom Davidson , Marc Blucas , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adenture , Thrillers , War , Western , and interesting true films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
This version does the book justice !	In My opinion this is the real Shining movie ! Don't get Me wrong , Stanley Kubrick's The Shining is a somewhat spooky movie but its no where near the book and if you want an almost exact duplicate version of Stephen King's The Shining this mini series is it ! One big note is it has the animal hedges in it which Kubrick's film really lacked . The film focuses on the boy and his shining which the other version did not ! Is all the other version focused on was an excellent performance Jack Nicholson . In My opinion Steven Weber actually played the father quite well and Rebecca De Mornay was very good and looked great ! Melvin Van Peebles was good and he fitted the character more than Scatman Crothers in My opinion . If you have read the book on the Shining and haven't seen either film do see both but see Kubrick's for Jack's performance but see Stephen King's The Shining Mini series for the real thing but if you haven't read it and seen neither of them then see both and compare them . I really liked the mini series a lot better and I think you will too !
Arachnophobia is a good spider flick !	Arachnophobia is a great spider film that stars Jeff Daniels , Harley Jane Kozak , John Goodman , Julian Sands , and Peter Jason . The film isn't really scary but its the creepyness that gets to you ! Arachnophobia has good acting and it has a great beginning ! Good music too ! I recommend Arachnophobia to all creature and horror film fans alike !
Great movie !	Minor spoilersIts a real good film ! I really like how the film's Cinematography and just about everything else is . Jackson and Affleck were great and I was surprised how Amanda Peet's role was and she acted it very well so she can be a beautiful serious woman ! The film goes way beyond road rage and through the film its so much more than that . I liked the film and I hope it gets more credit than it has .
Night of the Living Dead !	Night of the Living Dead is an excellent horror film that has an unusual cast including Duane Jones , Judith O'Dea , Karl Hardman , Marilyn Eastman , Keith Wayne , Judith Ridley , Kyra Schon , Charles Craig . The acting by all of these actor are very good . The special makeup effects are superb and the zombies look great . The music by is great as well . Its cool how radio announcer and TV personalities talk about the incident in the film . The film is very exciting and keeps you interested until the end ! This really is a great film . If you like the cast I've mentioned above , classic black and white films , and horror films then I strongly recommend this film , Night of the Living Dead !
Black Dog !	Black Dog is a great film that has a good cast which includes Patrick Swayze , Meat Loaf , Randy Travis , Gabriel Casseus , Brian Vincent , Graham Beckel , Brenda Strong , Charles S . Dutton , and Stephen Tobolowsky ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Swayze is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . Meat Loaf , Travis , Beckel , Dutton , and Tobolowsky were all very good ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Patrick Swayze , Meat Loaf , Randy Travis , Graham Beckel , Brenda Strong , Charles S . Dutton , Stephen Tobolowsky , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is funny Three Stooges short with Curly . Dick Curtis and Bert Young have to interesting role here and the two actors play them well . The same goes for Dorothy Comingore , Dorothy Appleby , Lorna Gray , and Kathryn Sheldon ! The fishing scenes and the bed scenes with The Stooges are hilarious ! Recommended !
Good film !	Nowhere to Land is a fair film ! It stars Ernie Hudson , Jack Wagner , Christine Elise , James Sikking , Mark Lee , Rachael Blake , Helen Thomson , Damian Pike , and Laurie Foel . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Hudson is really great in this film ! The action is good . The music is good . The film is quite exciting and the movie keeps you going until the finale . This is a very good and thrilling film . Just ignore the bad comments and give this film a try ! If you Ernie Hudson , Jack Wagner , Christine Elise , James Sikking , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above , thrillers , air plane disaster films , and exciting non-stop action films then I recommend this film !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Vernon Dent , Dorothy Appleby , Lynton Brent , Dudley Dickerson , Joe Palma , Cy Schindell , Al Thompson , and John Tyrrell ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . I strongly recommend this Three Stooges short !
A very cool film !	Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever is a superb movie with non-stop and I mean non-stop action ! The action scenes are so cool and explosive . I love the slow motion scenes and when the bad guys gets blown thru the air and one gets dropped hard on a car ! That was awesome ! Antonio Banderas looked very and good acted good and Lucy Liu was very good . Ray Park was good and I just loved his fight with Lucy Liu ! Talisa Soto looked beautiful ! Gregg Henry was good . Wych Kaosayananda ( Kaos ) is a great director in My opinion and I hope he will continue to make more awesome films ! I would like to see Banderas in more action films as well ! If you love Banderas and huge non-stop action films then rent Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever ! Movie Nuttball's Note : I don't understand why this is at the IMDb bottom 100 : # 91 ? If you haven't see Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever then please don't listen to the bad reviews because I think it is really cool film !
This is one heck of a Mummy movie	The title speaks for itself . This is arguably the greatest mummy movie ever made ( well next to The Mummy Returns ) . You ask why is this the best one ? Its the best one because it has a great story , good acting , beautiful sites at how it really was in acient egypt and some of the greatest visual effects ever seen by the human eye ! Everything in The Mummy is fantastic ! Vosloo , Frasier , and Weisz and Fehr are very good in it . Lots of familiar faces are in this one too . Listen to the music , buy the score , its by Jerry Goldsmith ! Oh , by the way , The Mummy Returns is coming out in a few days , the soundtrack is composed by Alan Silvestri ( don't worry , he did a terriffic job ) is available now ! Buy it , it is the most impressive music you will ever hear !
National Treasure !	National Treasure is a great film that has a great cast including Nicolas Cage , Diane Kruger , Justin Bartha , Sean Bean , Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel , Christopher Plummer , David Dayan Fisher , Stewart Finlay-McLennan , Oleg Taktarov , Stephen A . Pope , Annie Parisse , Armando Riesco , Erik King , and Mark Pellegrino ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Trever Rabin ! Great directing by Jon Turteltaub ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very entertaining film . If you like Nicolas Cage , Diane Kruger , Justin Bartha , Sean Bean , Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel , Christopher Plummer , Oleg Taktarov , Mark Pellegrino , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Action , Mystery , Thriller , and excellently interesting and entertaining movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Walking Tall !	Walking Tall is a very good action film that stars The Rock , Johnny Knoxville , Neal McDonough , Kristen Wilson , Ashley Scott , Khleo Thomas , John Beasley , Barbara Tarbuck , and Michael Bowen . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The acting is very good by the Rock ! His character is very convincing ! McDonough was also excellent The action is very good and in fact there were some really incredible scenes . I was amazed by it ! The music by Graeme Revell is very good . The film is very exciting and is never boring . If you like The Rock , Neal McDonough , Johnny Knoxville , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film !
Good film !	I thought this was really a treat to see a biography movie about one of the most talented wrestling personalities of time and one of My favorites just not in pro wrestling but also appearances in features films such as classics The Running Man , Predator , and No Hold Bared ! I'm talking about the one and the only Jesse ' the Body ' Venture ! The Jesse Venture Story is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Nils Allen Stewart , Nancy Anne Sakovich , Thomas Brandise , Christopher Bondy , Nola Augustson , Jef Mallory , Jonathan Potts , Elias Zarou , Bobby Johnston , Dwight McFee , David Huband , Phillip Jarrett , Michael Ruperco , Kevin Rushton , Tommy Dorrian , and Chris Kanyon ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Allen Stewart is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . It was cool seeing wrestler Kanyon in this film ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Nils Allen Stewart , Nancy Anne Sakovich , Thomas Brandise , Christopher Bondy , Nola Augustson , Jef Mallory , Jonathan Potts , Chris Kanyon , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , Action , and interesting True Stories then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : After the movie was I was shocked when the newscasters on the local channel I saw the film on were talking about that WWF wrestler Owen Hart and that he had died . I just couldn't believe it . He was doing his Blue Blazer gimmick and it went wrong and he collapsed and died . I thought it was weird that it happened on the same day as the premiere . As a big time wrestling fan I had followed his career for such a long time . He will be missed and not forgotten !
APE : Best of the ape b-flicks !	As a big fan of giant monster movies from the orient such as Godzilla and Gamera I had a to check out APE , the film that has so many alternate titles which in My opinion is hilarious such as APE : Attacking Primate Monster , Super Kong , and The New King Kong . I have seen most giant gorilla films and from viewing The original classic King Kong , The Son of Kong , the 1976 remake of King Kong , it's sequel King Kong Lives and ToHo's King Kong vs . Godzilla and King Kong Escapes and the Q . T . flick the Mighty Peking Man . I can tell you that APE is the most different of them all and the most horrible one of the lot but I really don't mind the fake looking ape with the zipper on the side of the costume which sometimes they forgot close it all the way , the really bad dubbing , the stupid dialogue , the paper thin buildings ( I say paper thin because when the buildings are on fire it sounds like paper burning ! ) , the toy vehicles , the toy cow , the pool that is supposed to be the ocean , the rubber shark , the maximized snake , the army and the people running over and over and over again and such and plus what made it even better was it was filmed in 3D ! I don't mind this terrible stuff in APE because it makes the film funny and even better than what it supposed to be . APE is so dumb that I couldn't stop laughing . Minor briefing on the goings on in APE : In the beginning of APE it starts out with a bang with the boat and we are introduced to two workers on the freighter ( shouldn't the film have begun and told how the APE was captured and where he came from ? ) . They have the slowest conversation and it really helps with the very out of place dubbing . In this conversation they talk about the big guy and that he is going to Disney Land and all of a sudden the toy boat is blown up out of proportion . The screen is black and all you see is fire and the pool that is supposed to be the ocean for several seconds . Then immediately we see APE fighting with a giant great white shark that in My opinion resembled more of a basking shark . The shark never fought back and APE just thrashes him back and fourth a dozen times . This was an excellent seen for what it was . Through out the film we see Ape dance , gave the finger which was an awesome excellent experience to view and he never makes any roars and I noticed that there were no stomping sounds whatsoever ! The character Colonel Davis was hilarious ! he said lines such as " to hell with the press , I'm going to smoke this cigarette " ! The film is a total laugh fest and I think people who love horrible movies with many mistake and fake looking stuff this is THE FILM for you ! Notes : For the people who are interested in buying APE on video go to the following web address http www bijouflix com index html They have an excellent selection on rare low budget films at great prices with super fast shipping and service ! This is a dream come true if you love this movie and were unable to see it when it was TV or find it at a video store . This is what I believe the only way to find the film unless you find on DVD at Amazon . com
Great Three Stooges Shemp short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a good three Stooges short . Vernon Dent , George J . Lewis , and Frank Lackteen all performed well . There and many funny scenes here and The Three Stooges are hilarious ! There is another short very similar like this one called Rumpus in the Harem . My favorite of the two is Malice in the Palace but I recommend to see both of these Three Stooges shorts !
The Gauntlet !	The Gauntlet is an excellent film that is very much like a Dirty Harry film ! It stars Clint Eastwood , Sondra Locke , Pat Hingle , William Prince , Bill McKinney , and Michael Cavanaugh . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Eastwood and Locke are great together ! The action is really awesome and the bus scenes are excellent . The movie get quite rough at time . The film is very exciting and the music is very good . The movie is directed greatly by Clint Eastwood . This is a great and thrilling film . If you like Clint Eastwood , Sondra Locke , Pat Hingle , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and the Dirty Harry series and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film !
Hit List is a awesome movie !	Hit List is a great 80s action film that has an all star cast ! Jan-Michael Vincent was good , Leo Rossi played his role good ! Lance Henriksen was incredible ! Charles Napier was good as always ! Rip Torn was awesome as He reminded Me of Jack Nicholson ! The movie Hit List is a dang good one ! It is one of those special movies of the 1980s ! It has a ton of action through out the film and it has a very aggressive approach toward violence ! The story is good , the cast is excellent , the acting is great , the action is totally superb , the music is unique , and the entire film is special ! I strongly recommend this film !
Exorcist : The Beginning is an awesome and scary epic horror picture ! Its one of the year's best !	Exorcist : The Beginning is a great film that has a great cast including Stellan Skarsgård , Izabella Scorupco , James D'Arcy , Remy Sweeney , Julian Wadham , Andrew French , Ralph Brown , Ben Cross , David Bradley , Alan Ford , Antonie Kamerling , Eddie Osei , Israel Aduramo , and Patrick O'Kane ! I was really surprised how good this film is because you don't know what's going to go on next ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Skarsgård was really good and I think that he could carry many other films in leading roles . He reminded Me of Russell Crowe because in My opinion he looks like and sounds like him . Izabella Scorupco was really good in this film . She is a fine actress . Ralph Brown and Ben Cross were very good as well . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is very surprising . I was really surprised how the scene with the boy and Hyenas how they kept on attacking and chewing him ! There is some other gruesome but not to gory happenings in this picture as well ! The movie is filmed greatly . The filmed kinda reminded Me of the MuMmy ! The music is great by Trevor Rabin and I don't understand why his score didn't get released . For crying out loud its one of the man's best to date ! Great direction by Renny Harlin ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a extremely thrilling and very scary film . If you like Stellan Skarsgård , Izabella Scorupco , James D'Arcy , Remy Sweeney , Julian Wadham , Andrew French , Ralph Brown , Ben Cross , David Bradley , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great hilarious Dracula movie !	Dracula : Dead and Loving It is really a funny film ! Leslie Nielsen was awesome as Count Dracula ! His acting and accent was really good ! Peter MacNicol was tremendous as Renfield ! He did a great job with the famous laugh and his performance is arguably the best in the film ! Steven Weber and Harvey Korman were also very good ! Mel Brooks played Van Helsing pretty good as well ! Really everyone in the movie had great accents and their acting was top notch ! The music is very good by composer Hummie Mann and like the movie it can get serious at times ! I really don't know if this is Mel Brook's best film but this and along with the classic Spaceballs is two of his funniest ! If you love Leslie Nielsen , Mel Brooks , Peter MacNicol , and Dracula then see Dracula : Dead and Loving it !
Legend is a beautiful Movie ! Ultimate Edition comment !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time . Legend is a fantastic movie ! I have seen this beautiful film countless times . There is just so much in this film and everything is wonderful . The prologue is a very interesting reading and after you hear the bell sounds get ready to see a visually stunning epic of greatness , love , action , and darkness ! This movie here is one of the greatest that I have ever seen . By watching the original theatrical version and the Director's Cut of the film on the Ultimate Legend DVD I have realized that Legend is indeed arguably the greatest movie ever filmed and even though there are two versions they are equal . What makes The Director's Cut different is it longer with added scenes , more character development , and has a different musical score by Jerry Goldsmith . The actors that are in this make the characters just so wonderful and full of personality , the music by Tangerine Dream and Jerry Goldsmith is just so extraordinary , two of the greatest score ever written in My opinion , the action is tremendous , the scenery is just so neat , and I just could go on and on . The actors in this as I mentioned are great . Even though Tom Cruise is not one of My favorites his performance is great . A likable character . Mia Sara is just lovely in this film . I just can't believe how Tim Curry played Darkness . His voice is incredible . Curry has arguably the greatest performance ever in this film . Out of all of the dozens of great villains in movies Darkness is My favorite . David Bennent , Alice Playten , Billy Barty , and Cork Hubbert are very good . Ian Longmur and Mike Crane as the Demon Cooks are excellent . Legend is really special . I strongly recommend that you purchase the Ultimate Edition of Legend on DVD at Amazon . com like I did and I hope everyone has the chance to see this masterpiece .
This movie is cool !	Minor SpoilersI began collecting the Turtles action figures in the late 80s and I watch the great cartoons as well and when I saw a preview of the motion picture I just couldn't believe it . I said I gotta see it . I saw it in the theatre and I was not disappointed . The 1st appearances of the Turtles , Shredder ( an underrated icon ) , and April was really neat . The fighting is great and the movie is very close to the cartoon . Any TMNT fan will love this . This is one of the best movies I have seen .
Raw Deal !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Raw Deal is an excellent film ! I think its one of Arnold's best ! Also starring is Kathryn Harrold , Darren McGavin , Paul Shenar , Robert Davi , Ed Lauter , Steven Hill , Sam Wanamaker , Mordecai Lawner , Joe Regalbuto , Tony DiBenedetto , Dick Durock , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Thomas Rosales Jr . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Arnold is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed great . Kathryn Harrold was also good and she reminded Me a lot of Cate Capshaw . McGavin , Davi , and Shenar also had good performances . The action is really awesome and in My the action this film shows why the 1980s was the decade of action films ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great . The film is superbly exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a great and truly a wonderful action film . If you love Arnold , Kathryn Harrold , Darren McGavin , Paul Shenar , Robert Davi , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , and interesting Thrillers films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Here are some other Arnold recommendations : Conan the Barbarian , Conan the Destroyer , Red Sonja , The Terminator , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day , Terminator 3 : The Rise of the Machines , The Running Man , Red Heat , Commando , Predator , Total Recall , Kindergarten Cop , Last Action Hero , True Lies , Junior , Eraser , Jingle All The Way , Batman and Robin , End of Days , and Collateral Damage !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! A good Three Stooges short with Shemp ! Dick Curtis and Jean Willes performed really good together as a couple . The scenes when The Stooges do their census stuff in the hall is funny . The short has some really funny scenes especially the mirror scenes . Also the scenes when Dick Curtis is doing his stuff is also really good . I recommend this Three Stooges Short !
A great horror movie !	Tales from the Darkside : The Movie is a great film with three great stories . The wraparound story : Its pretty good and it has a good ending . LOT 249 : Julianne Moore looked so different . This story is a good mummy tale with a lot of gore ! Cat From Hell : William Hickey and David Johansen put on very good performances . Lover's Vow : Excellent story , excellent music , excellent monster , excellent acting by James Remar and Rae Dawn Chong . This story gives Me the creeps . It makes you wonder what if ? This story right here is worth the rental or purchase alone ! Tales from the Darkside : The Movie is a great movie and I recommend all horror fans to check it out !
The Package !	The Package is one of Andrew Davis ' finest films ! Gene Hackman and Tommy Lee Jones were really good . I liked the charisma Hackman and Joanna Cassidy had together ! The music by James Newton Howard is good . The action is top notch . There are so many cast members that was in Andrew's other films in the package and if you are a big fan of Davis's other movies then I'm sure you know who they are ! If you want to see another winner by Andrew Davis that stars Gene Hackman and Tommy Lee Jones then check out the Package !
This is one informal program !	Below are my opinions . This special program is located on the features menu on the DVD of the excellent movie Cellular starring Kim Basinger , Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , and William H . Macy ! Larry Cohen , Martin Cooper , Joel Engel , Xeni Jardin , Don Kilhefner , and Ian MacRury are all featured in this and talk about the history of the cell phone . These people on this program talk about many things and its really amazing to know these facts . Such as these : There are over a billion people who use cell phones a day in this world and how it has changed our conversations from speaking face to face to phone to phone . One thing that is shocking in My opinion is the thing that these people are very serious about is that in the future of implanting phones in the human body to save time and other factors for our society . According to these people this'll work by us thinking of the numbers we want to dial and have our speakings to whoever or whatever . I think that this is a terrible idea and could go horribly wrong as it could cause serious damage to the human race and not to mention the world . This is an idea that should never ever be made into an reality . Its bad enough as I write this that people talk and talk on cell phones in their cars and cause things to happen by not having total concentration on the driving area and people just talking up a storm in a store and / or a theater when its simply a regular conversation about normal things that could be talked about at a later time and distracting other people from their activities . All of this above and below is My opinion about cell phones and the cell phone plantation master plan in the body idea . Since most of the people on this planet crave cell phones imagine what kind of future their kids and their kids will have ! Yeah , they'll be more cell phone crazy than their predecessors and they'll also be living phone projects ! Now isn't that one of the greatest ideas ever ? If there is a poll or polls soon or any time about this subject I for one am voting a big NO ! I don't want to be experimented on especially not like that . Its not My idea of fun . I hope that you think this over and say no in case this does become a reality . Those are My opinions and thank you for reading !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This has always been one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts ! The entire thing is extremely hilarious ! The scene where Curly performs music in the radio and the restaurant scene is great and when the Stooges come out of the building dressed as high officers are so funny ! Bud Jamison as usual puts on a great performance ! This is a super funny Three Stooges short !
A great Disney Classic !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
The Intruder is an excellent film !	A movie before its time is The Intruder ! William Shatner stars in this film ! His performance is a very good one ! Before he became the hero James T . Kirk in the Star Trek saga he was causing havoc as The Intruder ! There are many great scenes in the film and all of the scenes are filmed really well ! Some of the scenes I like are when the KKK make their first appearance that was really an excellent scene ! It was filmed remarkably ! Shatner's Character is a cool and peaceful man yet determined to accomplish a mission that would bring a time to remember . I also like the conversation Shatner had with character Ella McDanielin in her room . Really this is a fantastic film and in My opinion one of Shatner's greatest performances ! If you like William Shatner and if you like the movie To Kill a Mockingbird ( that stars Gregory Peck ) then I strongly recommend The Intruder !
Cats and Dogs !	Cats and Dogs is a great comedy action film that stars Jeff Goldblum , Elizabeth Perkins , Alexander Pollock , Miriam Margolyes , Tobey Maguire , Alec Baldwin , Sean Hayes , Susan Sarandon , Michael Clarke Duncan , Jon Lovitz , Joe Pantoliano , and Charlton Heston ! There are several hilarious moments in this picture . The action scenes are done very well . Goldblum and the other actors were . The castle scenes were really cool . The music by John Debney is very good . The movie is totally funny . I thought it was something else seeing all those different types of dogs and cats . So if you who like Jeff Goldblum and the rest of the cast mentioned and comedies with animals then I strongly recommend this film !
Great movie that has it all !	Minor Spoilers . The following is in My opinion ! In My opinion Daredevil is not only one of the best films based on a comic book but also one of the best movies period ! The actors that play the main characters I believe that this is the best movie they have been in and they probably will not have excellent roles like this again unless there is a sequel like the people say which I hope is true ! Let Me explain what I mean . Ben Affleck as Daredevil / Matt Murdock - The Murdock character was good . Ben put a lot in it but when he is the Daredevil I was really amazed by his acting . He showed rage , emotion , and pain like he really was ! Jennifer Garner as Elektra - She to put some effort in the character especially her fighting skills ! Colin Farrell as Bullseye - He put all he could into this excellent villain ! With a very good accent , fighting skills , and evil face expressions makes Bullseye seem like a real person ! Michael Clarke Duncan as The Kingpin , Wilson Fisk - Is all I can say is that every time the huge man is on screen you see award potential performance ! Now as for others stars in the movie David Keith , Joe Pantoliano , Erick Avari , and Kevin Smith were good . The music by Graeme Revell was very good . The action and effects are superb ! Daredevil is a great movie ! Its dark , it has barely any humor , and the above mentioned cast and action makes this movie arguably better than any comic movie released so far ! I can't wait for Mark Steven Johnson's Ghostrider ! It would be cool if he would direct the announced movie of Elektra and a sequel to Daredevil ! I highly recommend this film to everyone ! Movie Nuttball's note : Keep on watching the end credits for a special scene with none other than Bullseye ! It is weird that some of the cast members were also in other films together . Ben Affleck & Jennifer Garner were in Pearl Harbor and Michael Clarke Duncan & Erick Avari were in the very misunderstood 2001 version of the Planet of the Apes !
Great sequel to Poltergeist !	Poltergeist II : The Other Side is a great sequel in My opinion to the first Poltergeist ! It is really good and as spooky as the original ! JoBeth Williams , Craig T . Nelson , Oliver Robins , and Zelda Rubinstein was very good and the new cast members Julian Beck and Will Sampson were excellent ! Julian Beck was great as Kane ! The way he looked and acted made him so scary ! Will Sampson was really good as Taylor ! The special effect is terrific ! The score by Jerry Goldsmith was perfect ! Even arguably better than the first with his new Indian themes and new ones mixed with the original theme ! The end was great and it really gave Me tears in My eyes ! I guess it was because it was so phenomenal with Jerry Goldsmith's music ! If you liked Poltergeist and love horror and ghost movies and love to be scared then I strongly recommend you watch this great movie soon !
A good funny and spooky film !	I just recently seen this good film a couple days ago and I think its a funny film . The Munsters are Hilarious especially Herman and Grandpa and Lily is something else ! What a woman Yvonne De Carlo is ! I really like Maria Lennard as Millie the bar tender / maid . She is a very pretty and different woman and she reminds of the beautiful Rachel Weiz . This is a good film for all monster , horror , comedy , and Universal Monsters fans !
2001 : A Space Odyssey	2001 : A Space Odyssey is a terrific film and is one of the greatest ! There is so much to this film that there is to much to explain ! All of the people in this film are very good . The beginning is a one of the most unique introductions ever in a film in My opinion . The Apes all looked real and the behavior and characteristics were good . The mystery that surrounds everything is fantastic . Hal is really a baddie and I just love the horror and spookiness in some scenes . The special effects are simply beautiful and is arguably the greatest and most realistic looking ever in cinema history ! The music is fabulous ! Though some of the things in the movie maybe easy to figure out I for one have not figured out everything in this movie . Anyone looking for a superb science fiction mystery then I strongly recommend 2001 : A Space Odyssey !
The 2002 MLB All-Star Game !	One of the most incredible Major League Baseball All-Star games was the 2002 edition . There were many surprising moments in this game and every second of it in My opinion was exciting ! So many great players were chosen in this game . Including Barry Bonds , Sammy Sosa , Lance Berkman , Todd Helton , Vladimir Guerrero , Mike Piazza , Scott Rolen , Ichiro , Alex Rodríguez , Jason Giambi , Manny Ramirez , Jorge Posada , Alfonso Soriano , and so many other greats ! One of the many things I like about the All-Star game is that the viewer gets to see some of the greatest MLB players the sport has to offer that some states in America and even other countries don't get the chance to watch . It always seems that the American League has the upper hand but I for one will never count out the National League . I am a huge Baseball fan and just love everything about the sport ! When the first moment on Joe Buck and company broadcast the game you know its gonna be an epic event ! If you are a Baseball fan and are able to watch this game on TV or even on tape do so because its a classic ! I recommend it !
Elvis : Aloha from Hawaii !	Elvis : Aloha from Hawaii ! If anybody wanted to watch a special feature concert on Elvis then this is it ! In this you get to see Elvis do his incredible movements , him risking his life getting kissed by the women fans . There are many songs in this special event . It is amazing how spectacular this concert is . The King is something else here . His performance is incredible and hilarious ! If you love Elvis then I strongly recommend that you watch this ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The following notes contain some special info and the rest is is My thoughts . There was a special program many years ago called The Elvis Files . It was a two program hosted by the late great Bill Bixby . The show was live and it showed the evidence that he is still alive . Many years ago there was an edition of Sally Jessy Raphael and it had several guests there including Elvis ' stepbrother , cousin , and friend Charlie Hodge . All three were against that he is alive . Elvis was a very unique man . He was one of the greatest singers and performers the world had ever seen . He was a very serious individual . He was kind , he could have fun , he could be silly but there was really a mystery to this man . What I am about to say here is all in My opinion and is My thoughts . Do I believe that his is alive ? Since I believe in just about anything I really can't say that he is or he is not . I do know this however that there is something fishy going on and it has been like that ever since . If he is no longer with us then how do you explain the photo is Graceland ? The telephone calls that sounded exactly like him ? How do you explain all of the sightings ? Sure the most simple thing to say is that they saw impersonators and people that simply resemble him but the people that say they saw him would swear that it was really him . You can believe what you want to but like most mysteries in the world this mystery of Elvis Presley has yet to be solved . Thanks for reading !
Great Mummy movie !	This Mummy film is very good ! Perter Cushing and Christopher Lee are excellent in the film ! Also Eddie Byrne was good . All of the other actors were fine . I like the great color and music in this mummy film as well ! Christopher Lee is awesome in the picture ! His walking is very neat ! I think he did a great job ! I thought the designs of his character ( past and present ) looked great and fixed up nicely too ! In his mummy form his eyes look scary ! This is one of the best mummy films to watch in My opinion ! If you like the cast members above , mummy movies , and horror then I strongly recommended this ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you love mummy films I recommend the following : The Mummy ( 1932 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) The Mummy Lives ( 1993 ) , Tale of the Mummy ( 1998 ) , The MuMmy ( 1999 ) The MuMmy Returns ( 2001 ) , The Scorpion King ( 2002 ) , and The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) !
One of the greatest horror monster movies of all time ! ! !	One of the greatest horror monster movies of all time ! ! ! SPOILER WARNINGWhen I saw the trailers to this horror fest I thought I gotta go see this at the show cause it looks incredible and MY type of movie . Well , guess what ? Leaving the show , I was only disappointed in one thing and that is I wanted to see it again . The monster in it is so neat . The acting is very good , the suspence is great and the violence and gore terribly good . Penelope Ann Miller and Tom Sizemore are very good in this . They both look great ! John Whitmore is very good and keep your eye open for Audra Lindley as Dr . Zwiezic . She has a short part but its a great one at that . There is so much that happens in this movie I can't begain to tell but I will say this , I love it when you see the city and you know that this and that is happening , it pumps you up when you watch The Relic ! The special effects is top notch and well , everything is just great . This is one of MY favorite movies . This movie is misunderstood and I wish more people would watch it and appreciate The Relic and know how great this movie is . The Relic has such a creepy , scary presence you don't know whats going to happen next type of atmosphere and thats why I love this movie . This is a great extravaganza superb monster fest ! The music is excellent . It is by John Debney ( Cutthroat Island , ) . Its his best next to Cutthroat Island . WARNING : If you have a weak stomach and can't stand to see monsters mauling , mutaling , destroying , and decapitating people's helpless bodies then please don't watch The Relic but If you like very scary and viloent horror movies then this is the best one you will ever see !
Excellent film ! One of the best !	The Punisher is one of My favorites films . Dolph Lundgren is perfect as the Punisher ! Louis Gossett Jr . , Jeroen Krabbé , Kim Miyori , and Nancy Everhard were all very good . The Punisher boasts excellent non-stop action and the two different mafias are good . I just adore the music as it is one of the greatest scores in a movie in My opinion . If you like Lundgren , Gossett Jr . , the Punisher comic , and great action then The Punisher is the one to watch !
An unbelievably insane classic cartoon !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short . Lynton Brent , Bud Jamison , Dick Jensen , and John Tyrrell are in this all all are good ! This is a funny one . The beginning of it is really hilarious ! The short has a bit of a great mystery and spooky feel to it . I think that this is one of the underrated Three Stooges shorts . Its really good and I recommend this one !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short . Harry Semels and Al Thompson are in this one . Richard Fiske is also in the short but his scenes are from archive footage from another Three Stooges short called Boobs in Arms . This is a very good Three Stooges short with many funny parts and I recommend it !
Temple of Doom is MY favorite in the series !	Mild SpoilersIndiana Jones trilogy , from the masters George Lucas and Steven Spielberg comes a great action packed series of films that takes place in the early 1900s . Indiana Jones is really a hero , he goes from from country to country to find a special artifact and / or place and he usualy succeeds ! This trilogy reminds ME alot of Star Wars . These are truly some of the best films ever . The Temple of Doom is MY favorite in the trilogy . I just love them jungles and the villan in this one . MY favorite part of Temple of Doom is the diner ! Yummy ! I just love the guy that say , Ah Desert ! Temple of Doom spooky as well . This movie has action from beginning to end !
Another great monster film !	For people who have seen the box of the movie and thought it looks to be Krudd ! the Sea Monster well I have news that it isn't ! The movie really good . Sure is its one them bad films that I love but the Kraa looks awesome ! I also really like Lord Doom and his voice ! Some great note worth things in Kraa ! the Sea Monster is when is bashing though the buildings it sounds like paper and just about every scene Kraa is in destroying the city you hear people yelling and screaming but you never see anybody ! You can plainly tell that the cars and trucks were just toys and how the movie was made and such it reminded Me of the Power Rangers ! For Godzilla , Gamera , and monster fans Kraa is in a lot scenes and destroys quite a bit to satisfy you ! Recommended !
Great feature !	This special program is located on the features menu on the DVD of the excellent movie Cellular starring Kim Basinger , Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , William H . Macy ! Featuring in interviews in this brief making of the film Cellular are Kim Basinger , Richard Brenner , Larry Cohen , Douglas Curtis , Dean Devlin , Annie Ellis , David R . Ellis , Tawny Ellis , Chris Evans , Freddie Hice , Jaymes Hinkle , Lauren Lloyd , William H . Macy , Chris Morgan , Art Rochester , and Jason Statham ! Therew are some amazing parts of this feature . One in the scene when the cement truck crashes into the car ! Evans explains how cool it was for him to be standing twenty feet away from it ! Another part was the scene in the film where Stratham grabs Basinger . There was only one take in that scene and Basinger didn't know what was going one ! I was very surprised by that ! Also what is talked about is that the actors did most of their stunts in this film ! The Producer Dean Deviln has a good amount of screen time on this feature so if you are one of his fans then this'll be good for you to check out ! I thought that this was a great feature I recommend this and I strongly the thrilling film Cellular !
A good sequel that is as funny as the original in My opinion !	The sequel is very funny ! All of the returning cast is great but Robert Goulet's villain is great ! Anthony James was good and it was sad to see Gina Mastrogiacomo . Look for some familiar faces too ! This is a great funny movie is arguably funnier that the first one ! If you like silly and funny films and like the Naked gun first film or the series then check this good sequel out !
Great Steven Seagal film ! One of his best to come out in a long time ! Excellent sword Fighting !	Into the Sun , Steven Seagal's latest movie ! The film has excellent action and Steven Seagal is very good in the film . It has a different story . Like some of his recent movies it takes place in other countries . It has a whole bunch of action including great sword fight scenes , major violence , blood , and there is a few of shoot outs . So if you are fan that loves sword fighting the ends in results of blood and decapitations that seem almost endless and if you think movies don't have that sort of thing anymore then Into the Sun has plenty of it ! There is a huge sword fight and the end ! The film has a great score by Stanley Clarke ! The bad guys are interesting villains . They are some that makes you hate them and believe Me Seagal get's ' em ! The movie is not bad at all , in fact its on of the best Seagal films to out in a long time ! If you love Steven Seagal then check Into the Sun ! ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you are big Steven Seagal fan like Me then I strongly recommend you to check out these other great movies ! Above the Law , Hard to Kill , Marked for Death ( Must see because it great ! ) , Out for Justice ( Great ! ) , Under Siege , On Deadly Ground ( Really good ! ) , Under Siege 2 : Dark Territory ( Very good ! ) , The Glimmer Man ( In My opinion his all time best and one of the greatest films ever ! ) , Fire Down Below ( Excellent ! ) , The Patriot , Ticker , The Foreigner ( Surprising great ! ) , Out for a Kill , and Belly of the Beast !
Total Recall is great and its a fun , violent epic film that delivers everything ! Its truly one of the greatest films of all time ! A classic indeed !	Total Recall is such an excellent epic with tons of action , fantastic special effects and make up , great acting , colorful characters , and a wonderful musical score ! Its one of the greatest films of all time ! The film stars Arnold Schwarzenegger , Rachel Ticotin , Sharon Stone , Ronny Cox , Michael Ironside , Marshall Bell , Mel Johnson Jr . , Michael Champion , Roy Brocksmith , Ray Baker , Rosemary Dunsmore , David Knell , Alexia Robinson , Dean Norris , Priscilla Allen , Gloria Dorson , Michael LaGuardia , Marc Alaimo , Robert Costanzo , and Robert Picardo ! Arnold is just as great as he usually is ! Rachel is very good and this just might be her best role ! Stone is really incredible in this picture . She really knows how to fight ! Ronny Cox is his usual villain self here but he's really got an attitude in this one ! Ironside is awesome in the film as well . He really is a bad guy here and I love the looks he gets on his face and another thing I love is the chemistry between him and Stone ! What makes their relationship so good is the music that Jerry Goldsmith wrote for their scenes is great ! Costanzo has a very good performance ! Bell , Baker , Brocksmith , and everybody else all have very good performances ! The action is one of the key factors that make this film so great ! The violence is incredible and its one of the most violent films I have seen . The shoot outs are outstanding . I love the classic ' many bad guys getting shot several times ' where one guys kills a dozen baddies ! They don't make films like this anymore ! The special effect are just fabulous and arguably better then today's effects ! Jerry Goldsmith's score for this is perfect ! I think its one of the best ever written . Its one of My favorites . Not that many people give the great composer credit for it . He should have won an Oscar Award for it easily in My opinion ! I love the score and if you do I recommend you go to Amazon . com and purchase Total Recall : The Deluxe Edition because it has all of the score that Goldsmith wrote for the film ! Its really an incredible masterpiece ! Paul Verhoeven directed this film greatly ! Head over to Amazon . com and get the special edition of Total Recall on DVD ! It has superb quality and a ton special features including a brief interview with Jerry Goldsmith ! The DVD is just so cool ! If you love Arnold , Rachel Ticotin , Sharon Stone , Ronny Cox , Michael Ironside , Marshall Bell , Robert Costanzo , Robert Picardo , Action , Science Fiction , Thriller , Adventure , one of the greatest musical scores , and exciting violence then I strongly recommend that you get the film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Here are some other Arnold recommendations : Conan the Barbarian , Conan the Destroyer , Red Sonja , The Terminator , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day , Terminator 3 : The Rise of the Machines , The Running Man , Red Heat , Commando , Predator , Kindergarten Cop , Last Action Hero , True Lies , Junior , Eraser , Jingle All The Way , Batman and Robin , End of Days , and Collateral Damage ! If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Fatal Error !	Fatal Error is a really cool movie ! Robert Wagner , Antonio Sabato Jr . , Janine Turner , Jason Schombing , Malcolm Stewart , and David Lewis are in the film . The movie's cast all acted really well . Robert Wagner played his role good . The relationship between Saboto Jr . and Turner was a nice one . There maybe a big age difference there but they are a unique couple . The two actors really worked together rather well . The music in the film is really good by Ron Ramin and fits the flick very well . There is a bunch of stuff that happens in the movie which you don't know what is going on and what is going to happen next and this movie keeps you going from beginning to end . If you like Robert Wagner , Antonio Sabato Jr . , and Janine Turner then watch this excellent movie !
Half-Shot Shooters !	This Stooges short is a very good one and I love the performance by Stanley Blystone . The Stooges are very funny Half-Shot Shooters . The explosions are excellent especially for the time period . If you like the Stooges then I think you'll love this !
Part of a great trilogy !	When I first saw the previews of Tremors I thought wow this is going to be a scary film . When I saw it for the first time I was thrilled about the story , the characters , and the monsters . Kevin Bacon and Fred Ward are great and Finn Carter , Michael Gross and Reba McEntire is good also ! Its an excellent film and it has two good sequels ! I recommend it for horror and science fiction films fans alike !
Great horror movie !	May contain some spoilersWow what a horror film ! The introduction or prolog was fantastic ! I really don't want to spoil anything but I think this movie was just done right ! Great mystery , no nudity or sex , little gore , great female monster , good music , and I liked how the film stuck to the story all the way to end ! Overall I enjoyed the film because of what I mentioned above and its really a unique film . If you like horror films and especially if your looking for a special then look no further than Darkness Falls ! Movie Nuttball's Note : The Tooth Fairly looked quite awesome in the film but that wasn't her original look . Originally Todd McFarlane revealed what she looked like when his great action figure company made a figure of her . She looked like an evil fairy with bat-like wings and long hair and was very feminine . The figure looked exactly like the really costume / character . Honestly I liked how she looked . Apparently who ever was in charge of the movie project was not satisfied with the costume which a man had to put it on . So the project took a different route with the monster and it is what appeared in the released film . A female monster that is dressed call in black and the face is covered with mask . I love the used version in the film by Stan Winston as well . I just don't know why they chose a different one but it worked out in My opinion ! If you don't know what the original Tooth Fairy just go to Spawn . com and search for the Movie Maniacs series 5 !
Great hilarious film !	This film is a great one ! John Candy is so great in the film ! Annie Potts , Jeffrey Jones , Shawnee Smith , Tim Thomerson , and Barry Corbin were all very good in it as well ! I just love the scenes where Candy is in disguise ! If you like the above cast then check it out soon !
We Want Our Mummy and so did I ! This is great one !	This is another great one ! Its very funny but its different . Dick Curtis was good as always , Theodore Lorch was excellent and Bud Jamison and James C . Morton is very good in the short film . This is a very good Three Stooges and I think all Stooge fans will like it !
Predator in-depth comment !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time . May contain spoilers . In this second comment It will be an in-depth edition . The Predator films are awesome ! It is extraordinary that such films were created about an alien monster that is a hunter with such a unique personality ! I like the Predator movies because of the fact of what I mentioned above , the great stars that the movies consist of which a lot of the actors are really big men , the action is incredible , the special effects are phenomenal , and the music is just tremendous ! In My opinion this score by Alan Silvestri is a classic and is one of the greatest ever ! Below is an in-depth review of the characters in Predator ! Arnold Schwarzenegger as Major ' Dutch ' Schaeffer - Dutch is an intelligent muscular man . He has fought in other wars and this Guerilla battle that he and his team fought was no simple task . After the deaths of Hawkins and Blain and what Mac described to him what he saw Dutch knew to take this situation with extreme caution . Carl Weathers as Major George Dillon - The muscular Dillon is one Dutch's best friends . He joins Dutch and his team . Bill Duke as Sergeant ' Mac ' Eliot - Though Mac maybe a nice guy but he also is no body to mess with . After he saw what killed Blain he lost it and from that moment on he made his own mission to kill what killed his best friend . Jesse Ventura as Blain - Big , tough , and strong is what Blain is all about . With his huge gun nothing stands in his way . Unfortunately what killed Hawkins shot Blain from behind . Sonny Landham as Billy - They don't come any braver than Billy , a muscular Native American Indian . He knows that something not human is lurking around in the jungle . After most of the commandos are slaughtered by the Predator Billy confronts this huge alien being one on one with his large razor sharp knife . Even with one hundred percent courage he is no match for this extraterrestrial beast . Richard Chaves as Poncho Ramirez - The smart commando is really handy at things . He speaks more than one language and can handle guns very well . When he got shot by the Predator's laser he was gone instantly . Shane Black as Hawkins - After chasing Anna through the jungle Hawkins found her but something found him and he just disappeared without a trace ! Elpidia Carrillo as Anna - Anna was the lone survivor in the Guerilla camp . She is kept prisoner by the commandos but since she knows that something superior killed Hawkins right in front of her and that his body has disappeared she is asked by Dutch what happened and she tells him in English and is untied by Dutch . R . G . Armstrong as General Phillips - General Phillips , a long time friend of Dutch . He is an intelligent individual . He lets no man back talk to him ! Sven-Ole Thorsen as Russian - This big Russian Guerilla is no body to mess with . He can handle just about any kind of fire arm with ease . He shot a prisoner that was tied up after kicking him hard in the stomach . Little did this large man know there was going to be a big surprise in store for the Guerilla camp . Kevin Peter Hall as The Predator - This being and his kind are one of the most intelligent life forms in the universe . The Predator is a giant reptilian humanoid . His visions infrared as he hunts unexpecting victims . He has great fighting skills and can be invisible . His laser mounted gun on his left shoulder is deadly and his right wrist blades are extremely sharp . The control panel on the other wrist is his most deadly weapon of all ! I believe that there is other life in the universe . In fact , there's so much that we have yet to discover on our planet which a great example is Cryptozoology but when it comes to extraordinary things such as these subjects the planet Earth is a world of doubt and with that it can't know squat . This is all My opinion . Thanks for reading ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , They Live , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! I have always liked this Three Stooges short . Its cool , its funny , and its really a different one ! One thing Larry is quite different in this one . The dance that Curly does after he plucks the ostrich is hilarious ! Also another funny scene is when he goes after the duck . The pumpkin scenes are also great ! This is a great Three Stooges short !
Great Jeff Goldblum movie !	Beyond Suspicion is a different and good movie to watch ! Jeff Goldblum , once again put on a fantastic performance ! The story is really good . The movie is made pretty good and in My opinion it seemed similar like a Alfred Hitchcock movie ! The music by Mark Mancina is very good ! If you like Jeff Goldblum , rent this must see movie !
XXX is a awesome entertaining film with incredible action !	xXx is an spectacular action movie ! Vin Diesel acted good and he looked bigger than ever ! Asia Argento looked great especially at the end ! Marton Csokas and Samuel L . Jackson performed very well ! I was amazed at the action / stunt scenes . Randy Edelman's score is very good ! I can't wait for the sequel ! If you like extreme action movies and Vin Diesel then check out XxX today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious and unique Three Stooges shorts is Nertsery Rhymes . In this short are Ted Healy and Bonnie Bonnell . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
The One that started it all !	This film is great ! Its sequels are great but this is the one that started it all ! Sam Niel , Laura Dern , Jeff Goldblum , and Richard Attenborough played there parts very well ! The Dinosaurs are incredible and I couldn't believe it the first time I saw it ! If you like Dinosaurs then heck out Jurassic Park !
Excellent movie ! One of the best !	Invasion U . S . A . is an awesome movie ! Its arguably Chuck Norris ' best film ever ! Norris is very good in the movie . Richard Lynch is are terrific as the villain ! In fact both actor when they are on screen together work very well with one another ! They also look very neat in the movie ! Good and underrated actors Billy Drago and James Pax are also a part of the excellent film as well ! The action is great ! In My opinion its some of the best ever seen ! There are tons are gun fights ! The movie is rather a rough one and not for the youngsters . There aren't many films like this ! The music by Jay Chattaway is fits the film very good ! I really like films like this especially on the extreme side ! If you like Chuck Norris , Richard Lynch , great action packed films that don't disappoint then Invasion U . S . A . is a great one to watch !
Great movie !	Great movie ! The cast is great and they act great ! It is an action packed thriller and you never know what is going to happen next ! Great music by Alan Silvestri and great direction by Stephen Hopkins ! I love this film !
The Shadow !	Great film ! Alec Baldwin is great as the Shadow ! Jone Lone was awesome ! Penelope Ann Miller , Peter Boyle , Ian McKellen , and Tim Curry were all excellent ! Great music by Jerry Goldsmith ! I recommend that you see the Shadow !
Great sequel !	This is my favorite of the series . Unlike the first one this is more of a super hero film . This movie is very good and it delivers ! Louis Jourdan is great and Dick Durock performs as Swamp Thing in my opinion a lot better than hie did in the original . Sarah Douglas is so neat and so beautiful ! I don't think she has looked any better and her performance is very good . Heather Locklear was good and looked great as always . Ace Mask was funny . The monster and action battles are very good . If you haven't seen any Swamp Thing film do see the original fist but I recommend seeing this one more . I'm sure it'll be your favorite of the two .
The Limey !	This here movie The Limey is a very strange but good and interesting film . It has very good acting by Terence Stamp which is a performance worthy of an award . Bill Duke , Luis Guzmán , Peter Fonda , Lesley Ann Warren , Nicky Katt , and Allan Graf are also in the movie . There isn't a bunch of action scenes in the movie but whenever there is its exceptionally well performed and staged . The different camera angles and filming makes them really look good . The music is good . There is a whole bunch of scenes you see in some films like when a person is talking but the person's mouth isn't moving and then a second or two later it does because they are in a different place or you hear them talking but don't see them until a moment later . Its not unusual as this has been seen in many other movies but it makes the experience watching this different . The Limey is a smart and clever film that is really unique and I recommend this movie to anyone who likes really different movies !
WCW Clash of the Champions !	This was one of the coolest things about World Championship Wrestling was their special WCW Clash of the Champions show that would air a couple times a year on TBS the Superstation and feature many of the top WCW superstars in big time matches and all of the current champions at the time of the event . Their were many , many classic match ups on this program until WCW was no more . I really miss this show and even more WCW . The program aired from 1988 to 1997 . If you are a classic wrestling fan like I am and are able to watch any of the Clash of the Champions editions on tape somehow do so because it was a classic and in My opinion there will never be a show like it again ! I strongly recommend it !
WCW Clash of the Champions !	This was one of the coolest things about World Championship Wrestling was their special WCW Clash of the Champions show that would air a couple times a year on TBS the Superstation and feature many of the top WCW superstars in big time matches and all of the current champions at the time of the event . Their were many , many classic match ups on this program until WCW was no more . I really miss this show and even more WCW . The program aired from 1988 to 1997 . If you are a classic wrestling fan like I am and are able to watch any of the Clash of the Champions editions on tape somehow do so because it was a classic and in My opinion there will never be a show like it again ! I strongly recommend it !
Good Three Stooges short ! A classic !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This Three Stooges short is a very good one . This was Curly's last short but he did a good job . Vernon Dent , the very lovely Barbara Slater , Theodore Lorch , Symona Boniface , Helen Dickson , Johnny Kascier , Emil Sitka , Al Thompson , and Victor Travers are in this one . I believe the beautiful Christine McIntyre is also in this with a believe it or not very dark hair color ! There is a remake with Joe Besser called Pies and Guys which is pretty good . This maybe Curly's last one but its a good one to watch !
Excellent movie ! Action packed with some of the most talented actors ever !	Surviving the Game is a great film that has an excellent cast including Ice-T , Rutger Hauer , Charles S . Dutton , Gary Busey , F . Murray Abraham , John C . McGinley , William McNamara , Jeff Corey , Bob Minor , Lawrence C . McCoy , and George Fisher ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Hauer , Busey , Abraham , McGinley Dutton , and Ice-T are really excellent in this film . Possibly their greatest performances ! I thought that they performed good . Busey and McGinley provide really maniacal characters ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is very good by Stewart Copeland . Good direction by Ernest R . DickersonThe film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Ice-T , Rutger Hauer , Charles S . Dutton , Gary Busey , F . Murray Abraham , John C . McGinley , William McNamara , the rest of the cast in the film , movie with a bunch of baddies , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Crime , War , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Enforcer !	This Dirty Harry film is really the most different one . Eastwood was good as always and I was surprised by the performance by Tyne Daly . John Mitchum and Albert Popwell were good ! It has some good action ! In this one the music by Jerry Fielding and its a decent score ! If you like Eastwood and and the Dirty Harry movies then watch The Enforcer !
Daylight !	Daylight is a great action film that has a great cast which includes Sylvester Stallone , Amy Brenneman , Viggo Mortensen , Dan Hedaya , Jay O . Sanders , Karen Young , Stan Shaw , Sage Stallone , Mark Rolston , and Nestor Serrano . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Sly Stallone is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The action is really good and some of it is incredible . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Randy Edelman . The film is very interesting and exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the last moment . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Sylvester Stallone , Amy Brenneman , Viggo Mortensen , Dan Hedaya , Jay O . Sanders , Karen Young , Stan Shaw , and the rest of the cast in the film , Action Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I recommend this film !
Twisted !	One of the most thrilling mysteries in My opinion of the year is Twisted starring Ashely Judd , Samuel L . Jackson , Andy Garcia , and Mark Pellegrino . Also David Strathairn , Russell Wong , Richard T . Jones , and Leland Orser also star . All of the cast act great and Judd put on a great performance ! Jackson , Garcia , and Pellegrino do exceptionally well also ! This movie had Me guessing through out and its quite exciting . The music by Mark Isham is very good and the direction by Philip Kaufman is as well . If you are a fan of any of the actors mentioned above and want to see a great mystery that keeps you guessing until the end then check out Twisted today !
Elvis : That's the Way It Is !	Elvis : That's the Way It Is ! If anybody wanted to watch a special feature documentary on Elvis then this is it ! You see the things he and his band do before they perform in front in thousands of screaming fans ! In this you get to see Elvis do his incredible movements , him risking his life getting kissed by the women fans and getting in the crowd . There are many songs in this event . It is amazing has how this is a spectacular documentary / concert . The King is something else here . His performance is incredible and hilarious ! If you love Elvis then I strongly recommend that you watch this ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The following notes contain some special info and the rest is My thoughts . There was a special program many years ago called The Elvis Files . It was a two program hosted by the late great Bill Bixby . The show was live and it showed the evidence that he is still alive . Many years ago there was an edition of Sally Jessy Raphael and it had several guests there including Elvis ' stepbrother , cousin , and friend Charlie Hodge . All three were against that he is alive . Elvis was a very unique man . He was one of the greatest singers and performers the world had ever seen . He was a very serious individual . He was kind , he could have fun , he could be silly but there was really a mystery to this man . What I am about to say here is all in My opinion and is My thoughts . Do I believe that his is alive ? Since I believe in just about anything I really can't say that he is or he is not . I do know this however that there is something fishy going on and it has been like that ever since . If he is no longer with us then how do you explain the photo is Graceland ? The telephone calls that sounded exactly like him ? How do you explain all of the sightings ? Sure the most simple thing to say is that they saw impersonators and people that simply resemble him but the people that say they saw him would swear that it was really him . You can believe what you want to but like most mysteries in the world this mystery of Elvis Presley has yet to be solved . Thanks for reading !
The Ghost Talks !	This is on of the spookiest and funniest Three Stooges shorts ! It begins rather well with thunders storms and the howling wind ! When the Stooges discover that the armor talks and they have a conversation about who he is its gets really good after that ! I think I was funny when the Stooges opened that chest and the skeleton came out and he says that he's Red and Shemp says Red Skeleton ! I thought that was very funny ! There is a lot of other type of spooky stuff in this one and also another funny part in it is when Larry talks to the suit of armor he say to " well maybe he doesn't talk English " and then he say things in other languages and the suit of armor replies to it and Larry's hat spins around and he is very frightened ! I thought it was funny ! The owl scene was very funny ! Like some other spooky type Three Stooges shorts this is a great Three Stooges short to watch over again around Halloween time !
The Parallax View !	The Parallax View is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Warren Beatty , Hume Cronyn , William Daniels , Kenneth Mars , Walter McGinn , Kelly Thordsen , Jim Davis , Bill McKinney , Jo Ann Harris , and Anthony Zerbe . The acting by all of these actors are very good in this film especially Harris and Zerbe . The thrills are really excellent and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and exciting film . If you like Warren Beatty , Hume Cronyn , Jo Ann Harris , Anthony Zerbe , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see the Parallax View today !
Good one !	Man in the Attic is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Jack Palance , Constance Smith , Byron Palmer , Frances Bavier , Rhys Williams , Sean McClory , Leslie Bradley , Tita Phillips , Lester Matthews , Harry Cording , Lilian Bond , Lisa Daniels , and Isabel Jewell . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Palance is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like s Jack Palance , Constance Smith , Byron Palmer , Frances Bavier , Rhys Williams , Sean McClory , Leslie Bradley , Tita Phillips , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Dramas , Action , Mystery , and interesting Classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good Van Damme film base on the video game classic !	This movie based on the classic Street Fighter 2 video game is a good film and I don't think it deserves to be on the IMDb bottom 100 : # 48 . Sure it may not exactly follow the game and some of the characters maybe inaccurate and the movie may seemed rushed at times but isn't other movies like that also especially if they are based on video games ? Jean-Claude Van Damme is very good in the movie Guile but the late great Raul Julia put on the best performance in the film ! He made M . Bison a really great and feared villain with such a spectacular personality ! They other characters are good and most of them do resemble the ones in the video game . If you haven't seen Street Fighter and love Van Damme films and what to see Raul Julia in an excellent performance ( arguably his best ) then I recommend you see this action packed movie based on the great video game !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Sappy Bullfighters . In this short are the beautiful Greta Thyssen , George J . Lewis , and Joe Palma . The acting by these actors are good especially by Thyssen and Lewis . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
Very good movie !	I thought Relentless is a good film ! It has some faces in it such as Robert Loggia , Judd Nelson , Leo Rossi , Meg Foster , Ken Lerner , Edward Bunker , and George ' Buck ' Flower ! The actors in the film are good especially Loggia and Nelson ! Nelson makes a good killer in the film ! You never know what this guy it up to ! I also like how the movie really focused on him ! It allowed decent development on this character and by it doing that it made it really interesting ! Leo Rossi played the good guy well . The music especially the main title is very good by underrated composer Jay Chattaway ! The action in the film is good and the killings are played out well . There are three sequels to this film . If you like the cast mentioned above and like to see a cool 80s killer movie then watch Relentless !
Very good movie !	This movie , Perfect Murder , Perfect Town : JonBenét and the City of Boulder is a very good crime drama movie based on the true story that stars Ronny Cox , Marg Helgenberger , Kris Kristofferson , and John Heard ! All of these actors and the rest of the cast are excellent ! I was very surprised how Cox and Helgenberger acted . Their performances are remarkable ! In My opinion everything is fine such as the editing , music , and directing in the film . The movie is about three hours long and during this time it really keeps you guessing who did it ! If you want to see one of the most unbelievable crimes in history told in a great movie and like the cast mentioned above in great performances than I strongly recommend this film !
Did you ever think what is REALLY underground ?	Phantoms is one creepy film . I just like how the beginning and middle of the film is . Just so scary and lonely . EXCELLENT ! The story is good and it really makes you think what if ? All horror , science fiction fans is got check this one out !
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Hard Justice is one of the best action movies ever !	Hard Justice is an excellent action movie ! The whole movie is really nothing but shooting and fighting ! For the people who say they don't make shoot em ups like they use to . Well , this one is really hard-core ! David Bradley is really good and his character takes a pounding in the movie . He gets hit by the stick over a dozen times , gets stabbed in the back and is in a coma for three days and then wakes up and fights again , gets beat up , recovers and is ready for more action ! His character is incredibly tuff ! Charles Napier was very good as well and he arguably steals the show ! Vernen Wells was good ! Professor Toru Tanaka had a short and an uncredited role in Hard Justice ! As for the action , it is truly awesome with all of the gun fights and the huge stand off like scene in the beginning has cars getting blown up and flipping up in mid air ! There is so much that happens in the 95 minute run time . For the action fans you will be blown away by all of the fire power and fighting that this film has to offer ! Hard Justice is a movie that isn't easy to locate and if you are at a video store and you see it for sale buy it up because this movie is big keeper an d plus the box is cool ! There is a ton of action that has to be seen to be believed ! Look and see if you can find some good deals on Ebay , Half . com , Amazon . com's Z-Shops and Market Place Sellers ! I strongly recommend that any action movie fan who loves shoot ems and fighting movies and has been disappointed by other movies that have the look like a true non stop action flick but fails to deliver it to get Hard Justice !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short with Curly . In this one are Vernon Dent , the beautiful Rebel Randall , and John Tyrrell in some good roles and they perform very well . Many funny scenes are present and the boat and fishing scenes with the Stooges are hilarious ! I recommend this one !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a fair Three Stooges short with Shemp . The beautiful Mary Ainslee , David Bond , Vernon Dent , Jimmie Lloyd , and Ned Glass are in it . The scenes when the Stooges are getting out of bed and ready is funny . Bond is good as the hypnotist , The Great Svengarlic . There is another Three Stooges short similar like this one called Flagpole Jitters and its just as good as this one . Three Stooges fans , check this one out !
Gremlins !	Gremlins is a very good film though I think it is sad at times but it is funny and very entertaining ! The film's actors act good including Dick Miller , the movie's Gremlins look great and cute at the same time ! Jerry Goldsmith's music is very good ! If you like director Joe Dante and haven't seen Gremlins then I recommend you see this cute but serious film !
Great classic film !	The Wizard of Oz is a great film that has a good cast which includes Judy Garland , Frank Morgan , Ray Bolger , Bert Lahr , Jack Haley , Billie Burke , Margaret Hamilton , Charley Grapewin , Pat Walshe , Clara Blandick , and Terry the Dog ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and charming film . If you like Judy Garland , Frank Morgan , Ray Bolger , Bert Lahr , Jack Haley , Billie Burke , Margaret Hamilton , Charley Grapewin , the rest of the cast in the film , Family , Fantasy , Musicals , Adventure , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Great action flick !	The Peacemaker is an excellent film from the beginning to the end ! It has one of the best beginnings a movie could have . I just love the entrance of the General ! I just love the train scenes and the peaceful moments following it with the great music . Speaking of the music , this is one of the greatest scores ever composed and it is by none other than Hans Zimmer ! George Clooney and Nicole Kidman are really good and Armin Mueller-Stahl's performance was good aswell . The demolishing car scenes was so cool . This truly is a thrill ride . I have seen this movie three times now and each viewing is gets better and better ! I recommend Clooney , Kidman , and nuclear missile fans to see this !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very funny Three Stooges western short . All of the performances are very good and Curly is hilarious ! Dick Curtis performs well as the villain and Lynton Brent does as well . Also there are brief but good performances by Vernon Dent , Jean Carmen , Lola Jensen , Suzanne Kaaren . I recommend this Three Stooges short !
Enter the Dragon ! One of the greatest fighting movies of all time !	Enter the Dragon is in an excellent movie ! Bruce Lee was great ! Kien Shih was awesome as Han ! Bolo Yeung and Robert Wall were cool as bad guys ! John Saxon and Jim Kelly were very good ! Lalo Schifrin's score is excellent ! The action is is so exciting and intense ! Strongly recommended !
Flash Gordan is a great classic film !	Flash Gordan is a excellent film with great effects , sets , and costumes ! It has a tremendous beginning ! Sam J . Jones was a good choice as Flash and Melody Anderson looked great and plus her acting was great aswell , she played a good character . Timothy Dalton was very good and Topol was good but My favorite of the acting was by Max von Sydow ! I think he deserved a award for his performance . That's how much I like it ! The music is great and I am surprised that this film didn't have any sequels . This is a great classic film that deserves a lot ! Its one of My favorites !
Very good movie with David Dukes and Branscombe Richmond !	This is a good movie ! All of the actors was good in it ! David Dukes is very good in the film and he really makes his villain character a really insane one ! Jon Cypher was also pretty good and so was Terence Knox , Patti D'Arbanville , Clayton Rohner , and Lee Arenberg . Branscombe Richmond is also in the film and plays a top quality bad guy quite well . I always can't tell the difference between Branscombe Richmond and Leo Lee . I didn't see Richmond's name until the end credits . Every time one of them is in a movie I always say its Leo Lee or wait a minute its Branscombe Richmond because they look so much a like and also sound a like as well ! All through out the film I was like that and guessing and I thought for sure he was Leo Lee but I was wrong . The music was good by Sylvester Levay and some of it sounded like the score in John Carpenter's The Thing ! Any way if you like the late David Dukes in a great role and like Branscombe Richmond , Jon Cypher , Clayton Rohner and the other cast members then watch Snow Kill today !
Good film !	20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Richard Crenna , Ben Cross , Julie Cox , Michael Jayston , Paul Gross , Jeff Harding , David Henry , James Vaughan , Susannah Fellows , Joshua Brody , and Phillip Van Dyke ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Crenna and Cross are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Richard Crenna , Ben Cross , Julie Cox , Michael Jayston , Paul Gross , Jeff Harding , David Henry , James Vaughan , Susannah Fellows , Joshua Brody , Phillip Van Dyke , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Sci-Fi , Romance , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good spooky John Carpenter film !	The Fog is a good and unique film . I love the entire cast and Jamie Lee Curtis and Adrienne Barbeau looked great ! They are some special women ! This is one of John Carpenter's best films . I really like the Fog and if you like Carpenter's Halloween and other films then check the Fog out !
One of the best movies to see !	Mild SpoilersIndiana Jones trilogy , from the masters George Lucas and Steven Spielberg comes a great action packed series of films that takes place in the early 1900s . Indiana Jones is really a hero , he goes from from country to country to find a special artifact and / or place and he usualy succeeds ! This trilogy reminds ME alot of Star Wars . These are truly some of the best films ever . The Raiders of the lost Ark is the first of the trilogy and it is a very good start . Its a little different than the other films but there is battles and fighting and it has a good ending too and if you havn't seen Indiana Jones before this is the one to see first !
If there's a steady pay check , I'LL believe anything you say - Ernie Hudson , 1984	Ghostbusters is truly a classic . The cast is great and special effects is really good . I don't want to spoil anything but here is what Ghostbusters is about . A group of scientists get the stuff to make proton guns and traps to catch ghosts . You can tell what goes on from there . This movie is really great , it has funny parts and cool dialogue and great acting and the music is great . Its by Elmer Bernstein , the composer who has been composing music in movies for over fifty ( 50 ) years ! Ghostbusters is written by Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis , two of the ghostbusters themsevles ! I really like the Columbia logo in the beginning and how the music plays while it shows , That will never be duplicated ever again I love it when the ghostbusters are in the library , its just a cool scene . Another neat scene is where Rick Moranis is being chased by a devil dog , that was incredible ! You can really see the beauty of New York City in Ghostbusters . Ghostbusters is just a great movie , I have seen it countless times and plan on seeing it even more ! Ghostbusters has a sequel and its a good one . Ghostbusters also spawned two different cartoon shows , action figures and several video games !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a good Three Stooges short with Joe ! Benny Rubin , Emil Sitka , Lorraine Crawford , Harriette Tarler , Marilyn Hanold , Doreen Woodbury are all in this Three Stooges short ! It is a funny one and its cool one and is a good one to watch and is one of most different Three Stooges shorts that was filmed .
Unbelievable Wolf Man movie !	The Fury of the Wolfman is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Paul Naschy / Jacinto Molina , Perla Cristal , Verónica Luján , Mark Stevens , Francisco Amorós , Fabián Conde , Miguel de la Riva , Ramón Lillo , José Marco , Javier de Rivera , and Pilar Zorrilla ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The Wolfman is really cool ! He looks great and he sound like the Looney Tunes character the Tazmainian devil ! There are some really hilarious scenes in this film ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Paul Naschy / Jacinto Molina , Perla Cristal , Verónica Luján , Mark Stevens , Francisco Amorós , Fabián Conde , Miguel de la Riva , Ramón Lillo , José Marco , Javier de Rivera , Pilar Zorrilla , the rest of the cast in the film , Werewold films , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I got this film on a special DVD that has Doctor Blood's Coffin , The Brainiac , and The Fury of the Wolfman from Vintage Home Entertainment ! See if you can find this winner with three bizarre but classic films on one DVD at Amazon . com today ! If you like Werewolf films I strongly recommend these : Werewolf of London ( 1935 ) , The Wolf Man ( 1941 ) , Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man ( 1943 ) , House of Frankenstein ( 1944 ) , Abbott an d Costell Meets Frankenstein ( 1948 ) , The Curse of the Werewolf ( 1961 ) , An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) , Silver Bullet ( 1985 ) , Werewolf ( 1987 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) , My Mom's a Werewolf ( 1989 ) , Project : Metalbeast ( 1995 ) , Bad Moon ( 1996 ) , Werewolf ( 1996 ) , Dog Soldiers ( 2002 ) , Underworld ( 2003 ) , and Van Helsing ( 2004 ) !
Good film !	Outrage is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Rob Lowe , Jennifer Grey , Kathryn Harrold , Eric Michael Cole , Shane Meier , Cyrus Thiedeke , Jerry Wasserman , and Nathaniel DeVeaux . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Lowe is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Rob Lowe , Jennifer Greyand , Nathaniel DeVeaux , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
An excellent film !	One of the most explosive and epic action films is Speed ! It stars Keanu Reeves , Dennis Hopper , Sandra Bullock , Joe Morton , Jeff Daniels , and Glenn Plummer ! Reeves is really good . I like how his character is . Dennis Hopper is excellent ! He's funny , he's mean , and he means business ! Hopper was perfect in My opinion ! Bullock was also very good . Plummer was also is funny and Morton and Daniels also perform good . The action is really great and you never know what to expect . The music by Mark Mancina is good and the direction by Jan de Bont is very good . I think that Speed is an excellent film which is always exciting ! If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see Dennis Hopper in a great performance then I strongly recommend that you watch or even buy Speed today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a hilarious Three Stooges short with Shemp ! Kenneth MacDonald and Ben Welden are in this one with Shemp and are very good . There are many funny things here and if you are a Three Stooges fan then I recommend this one !
A great movie !	Alien is one of the greatest sci-fi films in my opinion and it has three sequels . With a great story , good acting , and a lot of mystery I believe this is the ultimate Alien movie . Sigourney Weaver's first Alien film and I don't think it'll be her last . Alien has great music by Jerry Goldsmith ! If you are interested in seeing the Alien films for the first time I recommend see this one first and then you can see how it all began . This is truly a great film !
Godzilla 1985 is arguably the greatest Godzilla movie of all time ! ! !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . SpoilersI am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities . I like his enemies aswell but Godzilla is the Icon ! I have seen Godzilla 1985 well over 20 times I'M sure . This is the best of all of the Godzilla films ! This Godzilla movie just perfect . The beginning of it is great . I like how the big boat is in the storm and then all of a sudden Godzilla awakes out of the island and you hear his wonderful roar ! It doesn't take a long time when we first see Godzilla and when we do he causes great destruction at a nuclear factory . Seeing Raymond Burr older with a beard is something and his presence in Godzilla 1985 is an emotional one . The end of of the movie is very sad or atleast it is to ME . I cry every time I see Godzilla going into the volcano , he roars and roars and I just cry and cry . Raymond Burr says a powerful message at the end . There are many other Godzilla films including our own version but it is nothing like this . Like I said this is the greatest Godzilla movie of all . Watch it and see .
The Running Man is a classic !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . The Running Man is one of Arnold's best and most different films even to this day and when I first saw The Running Man I was so excited to see a movie like this . I just adore all of the fights and this is truly a special movie . It also has Jesse Ventura , the legendary Professor Toru Tanaka , Sven-Ole Thorsen , the beautiful Maria Conchita Alonso , Yaphet Kotto , Kurt Fuller , Richard Dawson , and Thomas Rosales Jr . who seems to always like death in his movies because he has been killed in such films as Universal Solder , The Lost World , Robo Cop 2 , Predator 2 , and among others . All Arnold fans should love this film from the beginning to the end because its action packed , star filled , and its one its one of Arnold's best to date !
The Amityville Horror is one great scary film ! They don't make films like this anymore ! Its a classic !	The Amityville Horror is a very good and scary film that has a good cast including James Brolin , Margot Kidder , Rod Steiger , Don Stroud , Murray Hamilton , John Larch , Natasha Ryan , K . C . Martel , Meeno Peluce , Michael Sacks , Helen Shaver , Val Avery , Elsa Raven and James Tolkan . The acting is great by all of these actors is very good . Steiger and Hamilton are excellent in this film . The thrills is really good and the spookiness is really excellent ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Lalo Schifrin . Arguably his greatest score ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and scary film . If you like James Brolin , Margot Kidder , Rod Steiger , Don Stroud , Murray Hamilton , Helen Shaver , Val Avery , James Tolkan , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting Action packed scary films then I strongly recommend you do what I did and buy this film on DVD today !
Good movie !	Doctor Blood's Coffin is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Kieron Moore , Hazel Court , Ian Hunter , Kenneth J . Warren , Gerald Lawson , Fred Johnson , Paul Hardtmuth , Paul Stockman , Andy Alston , John Romane , and Ruth Lee . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Kieron Moore , Hazel Court , Ian Hunter , Kenneth J . Warren , Gerald Lawson , Fred Johnson , Paul Hardtmuth , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I got this film on a special DVD that has Doctor Blood's Coffin , The Brainiac , and The Fury of the Wolfman from Vintage Home Entertainment ! See if you can find this winner with three bizarre but classic films on one DVD at Amazon . com today !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Shemp ! All Appearing in this short are Jock Mahoney , Emil Sitka , Vernon Dent , Christine McIntyre , Philip Van Zandt , Tiny Brauer , and Andre Pola ! This one is so hilarious ! Shemp has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . There is a similar one like this called Hot Stuff and I strongly recommend both of these Three Stooges shorts !
Great movie !	Stargate is a great movie ! Although not Kurt Russell's best but he performs good enough . James Spader was good and Viveca Lindfors was very good . Jaye Davidson was very surprising with the role ! The film has a great score by David Arnold . The story about Ra and what he really is , is a scary one and what he arrived in is so neat . The film is very good and is action packed and is a must see !
Excellent Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts of all time ! The Stooges are extremely funny ! I was amazing how Mary Ainslee and Ethelreda Leopold really looked like sisters and how Richard Fiske acted so differently . Vernon Dent , Symona Boniface , Dorothy Appleby , Eddie Laughton , Geneva Mitchell , Al Thompson , and Lynton Brent are also in this one . I saw some of this at one of My large theaters which has a huge screen and it was something else to see this one on the big screen ! There are so many hilarious scenes ! This is a great Three Stooges short !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
The Night Gallery	The Night Gallery is a great series . The TV pilot film was a great one . The three story telling film starred Joan Crawford , Ossie Davis , Richard Kiley , Roddy McDowall , Barry Sullivan , Tom Bosley . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The dialog was really good . The shorts were filmed very good . The music is good . Rod Serling hosted the show well . The short films are quite interesting and they really keeps you going . Most of them are spooky ! This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like classic shows like The Twilight Zone , The Outer Limits , The Nightstalker , and others , and classic Horror , Crime , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to go over to Amazon . com and buy this film that is also included with the complete first season on DVD today !
Good show !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funniest and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
The Ape !	This older film is really good and its made good too ! Boris Karloff is really good in it ! His character is much different than the other ones he has played as . Actually this is his most interesting role in My opinion ! I noticed that The ape or the gorilla in the film is the same gorilla that was in some of the Three Stooges shorts ! The movie has very good acting from all of the other actors that were in the film ! The story of The Ape is quite different and original ! The ape sequences were cool ! The movie has some good music and direction as well ! If you like Boris Karloff and older horror films like the Universal Monsters then I strongly recommended that you see The Ape !
Vertical Limit !	Vertical Limit is an excellent film that boasts a excellent cast which includes Bill Paxton , Chris O'Donnell , Robin Tunney , Scott Glenn , Temuera Morrison , Izabella Scorupco , and Roshan Seth . The acting by all of these actors is pretty good . I liked how Paxton was in this film . The action is really good and the mountain climbing and snow scenes are excellent . The film is very exciting and the music by James Newton Howard is great . The movie is directed greatly by Martin Campbell . This is a great and thrilling film . If you Bill Paxton , Chris O'Donnell , Robin Tunney , Scott Glenn , Temuera Morrison and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film !
Excellent movie ! One of the best ever ! EVERYONE is great ! Silvestri's score is unbelievable ! Van Helsing is an incredible film !	Van Helsing , one of My most anticipated movies and it was everything that I thought it would be and more ! I think the film is a great one ! Everyone one who is in this movie acted very good . Hugh Jackman was great as Van Helsing . He was very believable ! Kate Beckinsale also was good and her accent was cool . Richard Roxburgh was excellent and he arguably had the best performance and his look as Dracula was neat . Shuler Hensley was great as Frankenstein's Monster ! Samuel West was also great as Dr . Frankenstein and it was outstanding how much he looked like Colin Clive ! Kevin J . O'Connor was also great as Igor . Will Kemp was good as the Werewolf . The three Brides played by Elena Anaya , Silvia Colloca , and Josie Maran were excellent and they have a lot of screen time . It is amazing how they look in their vampire forms ! Robbie Coltrane was good as Mr . Hyde ! Also in good performances are Alun Armstrong and David Wenham . I just couldn't believe how great this movie is . The beginning of it is incredible ! The sound is spectacular and I can't recall a film with sound like this ! The musical score by Alan Silvestri is phenomenal ! Arguably the greatest score he has ever written and in My opinion one of the greatest scores ever ! The special effects are awesome and in My opinion everything looks real ! The directing by Stephen Sommers is great ! I think Van Helsing is one of the best movies and truly one of the most exciting films . If you like the cast mentioned above , love Sommer's The Mummy films , and want to see some incredible action involving Van Helsing , Dracula , Werewolves , Frankenstein's Monster , Mr . Hyde , Dracula's Brides , and more then I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy this excellent movie today !
One of the best movies of all !	The sequel to Star Wars is argueably the best of all the Star Wars films . This is much darker than the 1st one . Look for the Super Star Destroyer , it is a awesome ship . Boba Fett makes his fist appearence here . The chase scene the M . Falcon is being chased down by the Star Destroyers and Tie Fighters is really a cool scene . I f you like the 1st Star Wars then you will love this one ! Note : The special edition has added scenes , special effects , sounds , and creatures . To ME the highlight of this special edition is seeing the Wampa monster !
The Hulk !	I saw The Hulk on the 4th of July 2003 and on the same night I saw Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ! It was an excellent experience seeing both blockbusters right after the other ! It was well worth it and a unique way to spend on Independence Day ! First I want to say months ago I didn't give much thought to the Hulk . Well I sure did when I saw the film ! The music by Danny Elfman is great ! I was really surprised this time ! I didn't think he could tie his score of Batman and the Planet of the Apes ! The cast was really perfect ! Eric Bana played the part very good ! Jennifer Connelly was really good and she was so much different than she was in the Roceteer . Sam Elliott was great ! Josh Lucas play his villain part well and I hope to see him in more bad guy parts and as for Nick Nolte give him the academy award now ! Lou Ferrigno looked awesome in his cameo ! Ang Lee's direction was very good and his comic split screens really worked well . As for the action it was incredible ! It is hard to say what I like most of the action scenes but I loved it when the Hulk was just destroying those tanks ! This is a very , very , very , serious movie and there is very little humor if any and I really don't know if kids will like it because of the serious attitude and dark story it has . This isn't just another movie based on a comic book , it is very unique and all together different . The special effects were great and I loved the way the Hulk looked and he looked very real ! The end of the movie was good . I am satisfied with film . I think this is what all Hulk fans have waited for ! Go see it !
Godzilla 2000 ! ! ! !	I am a huge fan of Godzilla and being so disapointed with the 1998 US version I thought this Godzilla 2000 was going to be alot better and it was . This is what the 98 version should have been . Godzilla 2000 boasts tons of special effects and it it has one heck of a finale that in MY opinion is one of the best endings in a Godzilla movie . The enemy monster Orga , is is one of the neatest monsters Godzilla has fought and I am really happy how this movie is .
Poltergeist III !	The third and final film in the Poltergeist series is a good sequel in My opinion ! The Poltergeist curse as it is called by some makes the films sad but the series is very entertaining and spooky ! I would say this third one is the least scary but it has it moments ! Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen were really good as Heather O'Rourke's Uncle and Aunt . Zelda Rubenstein was good like before ! Nathan Davis played Kane well but some may think he isn't as scary as Julian Beck's Kane which in My opinion Beck's Kane was so evil and creepy but there is nothing wrong with Davis ' Kane either ! The music is very good . I think Poltergeist III is a good film just different than the prequels . If you have seen the other two Poltergeist movies then I recommend you see the third one for a good scary time ! Movie Nuttball's Note : This is strictly My opinion . I believe that the deaths of the actors that performed in the Poltergeist movie did have something to do with the films but what I don't know . I think the movies where deep in stories as they were different than others and why the things that happened to few actors that died I don't know either . As great as this series is maybe they should have skipped the trilogy ? I can't say for sure . May Heather O'Rourke , Will Sampson , Julian Beck , and Dominique Dunne Rest in Peace !
Good film !	Homeward Bound : The Incredible Journey is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Michael J . Fox , Sally Field , Don Ameche , Don Alder , Ed Bernard , Kevin Chevalia , Anne Christianson , Ted D'Arms , Woody Eney , Kim Greist , Rich Hawkins , Robert Hays , and Nurmi Husa . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael J . Fox , Sally Field , Don Ameche , Don Alder , Ed Bernard , Kevin Chevalia , Anne Christianson , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Drama , Family , Comedy and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short and this was the very first one from Columbia Pictures ! The beautiful Marjorie White is in this one ! Also Monte Collins , the very talented bug man Bud Jamison , Jack Norton , Don Roberts , Tiny Sandford , Dorothy Vernon , Leslie Goodwins , Charles Richman , Gilbert Emery , George Gray , Fred ' Snowflake ' Toones , Walter Brennan , June Gittelson , and A . R . Haysel are in this very special Three Stooges short ! The acting and the singing by the Stooges is excellent ! There is another Three Stooges similar like this one with Shemp called Gypped in the Penthouse which is very funny . I recommend that you see Woman Haters !
Spaceballs is a classic !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Spaceballs is a very funny spoof film that copies off of Star Wars and some other films but every time I watch Spaceballs I always think of it as it's own film . Its that funny ! It has a good cast and believe ME Spaceballs isn't boring . Infact the entire film is a blast ! I have seen it many , many times and it gets funnier every time you see it !
Great fighting movie !	This movie really rocks ! Jeff Wincott is terrific in the film ! His fighting incredible ! He is such a fast martial artist ! Brigitte Nielsen & Matthias Hues was very good ! Mission of Justice is an action packed movie that is never boring ! If you like fighting movies with incredible non stop action then check out Mission of Justice today !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
A Christmas Story is a classic film !	One of of the all time great Christmas films in My opinion is A Christmas Starring Melinda Dillon , Darren McGavin , Peter Billingsley , and Ian Petrella ! The acting by all of these actors are really good ! I think that Dillon and McGavin are wonderful together . Dillon is on great actress and McGavin is is also a great actor . The two kids , Peter Billingsley , and Ian Petrella are also very good . The things that happened in the film are very funny . The music and direction is very good . I think that this one is a classic . Its very old time and not to mention its hilarious . It really a n excellent film and just fantastic to want around the holidays . If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see a classic Christmas film then I strongly recommend that you watch A Christmas Story today !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts . Its very funny . Vernon Dent is very good in this one . There are two other Three Stooges shorts similar like this one called They Stooge to Conga with Curly and Listen , Judge with Shemp and they are arguably funnier than this ! Symona Boniface , Gino Corrado , Bess Flowers , Bud Jamison , Blanche Payson , and Victor Travers are all in this short ! This is a very funny one and I strongly recommended it !
War of the Gargantuas is a great film !	I am a huge Godzilla fan and Gamera fan I grew up with Godzilla and Gamera . I have a ; ways been a big monsters fan to begin with . I just love seeing these awesome monsters just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I also like other monster films especially Toho's other monster movies ! This monster film is one most exciting giant monster films ever in My opinion ! The story is excellent ! The Gargantuas are cool looking . I love it when they roar and run . The fights between the two monsters and the army is really good . The special effects are outstanding in My opinion . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is great by Akira Ifukube ! I really love this monsters film for many reasons and its arguably the best ever ! If you love Godzilla , Gamera , and other giant monster film I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy War of the Gargantuas today !
Great one with Shemp !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Shemp is none other than Sing a Song of Six Pants ! All appearing in this short are the great Vernon Dent , the excellent Tiny Brauer , the beautiful Virginia Hunter , Phil Arnold , the hilarious Cy Schindell , Jules White , Bing Connolly , Dee Green , and Johnny Kascier . Dent , Brauer , Hunter , and Schindell are great here ! There are so many funny parts here . This is a very hilarious short . There is another similar Three Stooges short like this one called Rip , Sew , and Stitch and I recommend both !
Funny movie !	The Problem child movies are very funny ! John Ritter , Amy Yasbeck , and Jack Warden are all good in the films ! The film has some of the more hilarious scenes ever and if you like comedy film with bratty kids then check this out !
Good sequel to RoboCop !	The Sequel to RoboCop is a good one with more violence . Perter Weller and Nancy Allen both do as good Dan O'Herlihy , as they did in the original . Thomas Rosales Jr once again gets shot up in this movie which was no suprise to Me because in most of the films he is in he either gets killed or is behind bars . Tom Noonan is the villain this time around and is a good one at that ! John Glover is his usual self . Leonard Rosenman's score for RoboCop 2 is very good ! Fans of the first RoboCop film check the sequel out as it is a good sequel with a lot of action !
Excellent film !	The Day After Tomorrow is an excellent film that boasts a excellent cast which includes Dennis Quaid , Jake Gyllenhaal , Emmy Rossum , Dash Mihok , Jay O . Sanders , Frank Harris , Sela Ward , Ian Holm , Mark Thompson , and Glen Plummer . The acting by all of these is very good . The special effects are superb and tons of weather action and it all looks realistic . The film is very exciting and the music by Harald Kloser is great . Roland Emmerich has directed another major film this excellent ! This really the ultimate disaster film . Once again this is a great film and its arguably one of the greatest movies ever in My opinion ! Strongly recommended ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If love Roland Emmerich then I recommend that you see the following films : Making Contact ( a very different yet great movie ) , Universal Soldier ( an awesome movie , one of the best ! ) , Stargate ( another excellent film ! ) , Godzilla 1998 ( Don't get Me wrong , its a great movie but I still feel that it is nothing like the classic Godzilla movies so I only recommend you see it if you like American monster films and / or Roland Emmerich ) , and The Patriot , ( 2000 , this is a fine film ! .
Good classic !	Detour is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Tom Neal , Ann Savage , Claudia Drake , Edmund MacDonald , Tim Ryan , Esther Howard , Pat Gleason , Don Brodie , Roger Clark , Eddie Hall , and Harry Strang ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Neal and Savage are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Tom Neal , Ann Savage , Claudia Drake , Edmund MacDonald , Tim Ryan , Esther Howard , Pat Gleason , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , Film-Noir , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good film !	The Incredible Journey is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Émile Genest , John Drainie , Tommy Tweed , Sandra Scott , Syme Jago , Marion Finlayson , Ronald Cohoon , Robert Christie , and Beth Lockerbie . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Émile Genest , John Drainie , Tommy Tweed , Sandra Scott , Syme Jago , Marion Finlayson , Ronald Cohoon , Robert Christie , and Beth Lockerbie , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Drama , Family , Comedy and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Great movie that is Unbelievable ! Steve Railsback is excellent !	This TV movie based on the true Manson Murders is a great one ! It stars Steve Railsback , George DiCenzo , Alan Oppenheimer , and Nancy Wolfe ! Railsback was fixed up very well and looked just like the real person in My opinion . I think he performed so unbelievably great here that I think he should have won an award ! He is that remarkable ! Everyone else performed really well especially Manson's girls . For a TV film this movie was quite rough and this film is quite accurate . I don't want to spoil it any further because this is special film . Once you see this film you won't believe how Railsback is ! The movie is extremely hard to find as well . If you see this film for sale any where buy it ! I strongly recommend it !
Great Godzilla film !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . Mothra is great . As for his enemies The Sea Monster Ebirah and The Giant Condor they too are awesome . I love it when they roar . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . The Sea Monster today !
Great classic !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
A great movie !	Incredible film ! The Invisible Man has a lot of violence and really the movie is ahead of its time . The special effects are great and Claude Rains was very good . This is a great and welcomed edition of the Universal Studios Monsters films . In my opinion this is totally different than Hollow Man . I enjoyed both very much !
Great Movie and Christopher Neame is awesome !	I always been a fan of Chuck Norris and when I first saw Hellbound I thought it was a good movie . Christopher Neame was given an excellent role which was absolutely awesome . His looks was scary and his voice very dark ! The score is great and Hellbound is a very good film . Neame is an incredible actor and I hope everyone that is a fan of his , Chuck Norris , action , and the horror genre gets to see this !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! You Natzy Spy ! is a great Three Stooges short which in My opinion is one of the best ! The Stooges are very good here ! Richard Fiske and he has a totally different personality than most of his role in The Three Stooges shorts . This role is similar like the one in " In the Sweet Pie and Pie " . As always he performs very well . Also so do Dick Curtis , Don Beddoe , John Tyrrell , Eddie Laughton , and Al Thompson . The beautiful Lorna Gray is also in this one and she is something else ! I recommend this one !
Special Edition note	This is the one that started it all . The beginning is really something and when you see Darth Vader for the first time you just can't believeit ! Amazing effects and good action and introduction to the characters . Peter Cushing is great and fits good this 1st movie . This is oneof the best movies ever made in MY opinion . Any sc-fi fan should enjoy this . Note : The special edition has added scenes , special effects , sounds , and creatures but a big I noticed that in the Cantina , werewolf looking character Lak Sivrak was replaced by elephant looking character Ketwol . I thought I would just point that out .
Rocketeers !	The animated television series of Rocketeers was very good and it was one of the most different animated shorts back in the old days . The animation was very good and clear . The voices were good for the characters and the characters were also very good and funny . The animation is similar like the other cartoons back then . The sound was good and the music was good and fit the cartoon especially back in the day . The stories in the cartoons were good . It was interesting and fun to watch . If you are able to watch this on television or on tape do so because this was one of the great animated shows of the 1930's in My opinion ! I recommend it !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funniest and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Great one !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . The big G is joined by Rodan and Mothra and they are great and I love it when they roar as well ! As for their enemy King Ghidrah , he too is awesome . I love it when he roars . The fights between the monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Ghidorah : The Three Headed Monster today !
A very good film !	Its great film ! The casting was good and Rex Reason was an excellent choice ! I don't believe there is an actor like him today . Faith Domergue is very different actress but a very beautiful at that ! The color is awesome and the Metaluna Mutant is a cool villain ! A great Universal Studios Monsters film !
Great Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Oily To Bed , Oily to Rise is a great one with Curly ! The part where the Stooges are in the barn is hilarious ! I love the outside nature of the short film ! Dick Curtis , Eddie Laughton , Richard Fiske , Eva McKenzie , and Victor Travers are in this one along with the beautiful Lorna Gray and Dorothy Moore ! There is another Stooges short similar like this with Joe called Oil's Well That Ends Well which a decent short . Oily To Bed , Oily to Rise I strongly recommend !
A good one !	This special program is located on the features menu on the DVD of the excellent movie Cellular starring Kim Basinger , Chris Evans , Jason Stratham and William H . Macy ! This show is really a great show in My opinion . It shows the real thing . The cases are graphic because these things really happened and are not made up . There are however reenactments . I would not recommend a young child to watch this program without the guidance of a parent . The show gives the viewer the knowledge that there are corrupted cops out there and this is violent case . The show is an excellent program to watch for people who love to see real crimes being told , getting solved and killers getting jailed . If you like to see documentaries about crimes getting solved then I strongly recommend that you check out this feature program on the DVD of the thrilling movie Cellular and watch this special program today !
Rambo III !	The second sequel to Rambo is really a good film . Stallone and Richard Crenna were good again ! Rambo III it seems has more action than Rambo : First Blood Part II ! The villain is really bad and Rambo has a hard to with him . The film is funny at times . If like like First Blood and Rambo II then check out Rambo III !
Arguably the best of the sequels !	This third and final sequel to Superman is really a good movie . It has a good villain and and a good story . Sadly , This was Christopher Reeves last performance as Superman and it is a shame as in my opinion his performances as the Man of Steel were flawless ! I truly hope this franchise comes back in the near future as I want to see a Superman film based on one of the greatest comic books ever , The Death of Superman . This would be such a incredible movie that I believe it would have people talking about for years though Batman vs . Superman is coming soon so maybe this is a start to get one of the greatest film series ' in history back on track !
Great Smurfs movie !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Chain Reaction is such a good movie !	Minor SpoilersBeing part of a blockbuster movie year of 1996 , Chain Reaction seemed like it didn't get much credit . When I saw Chain Reaction at the theatre I was very xcited about the film and I loved so much I bought the video ! There's just something about Chain Reaction . It has a very good cast and I like how Keanu Reeves and Rachel Weisz acts in this together . I really like Rachel ! Morgan Freeman is really good and in MY opinion this is one of his best roles yet ! Brian Cox really steals the show here and Fred Ward and Kevin Dunn make a excellent team . Another thing I like about Chain Reaction is the city views , thier're spectactlar and the effects are awesome . Like I said there's just something about this movie , it's one of MY favorites !
The Ewok Adventure !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Back in the early 80s there were two good movies about the the Ewoks from Star Wars : Return of the Jedi . Both film have the spirit of the Star Wars film in MY opinion and especialy ROTJ . Both films are sad in a way but they are never boring and both have good special effects and the whole nine . Both film has some great music aswell ! The Ewok Adventure is a good film and it has a giant monster and other creatures . I just love the dark forest and the big moon , that's just beautiful ! The film also has a good ending . Fans of Star Wars is gotta check this out !
Movie Maniacs !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most unique Three Stooges shorts is Movie Maniacs . In this short are Bud Jamison , Harry Semels , Mildred Harris , Kenneth Harlan , and Heinie Conklin . The acting by these actors are good especially by Jamison and Semels . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
Excellent film ! ! !	Excellent film ! Arguably the best of the series of the Star Trek feature films ! Great beginning and the music by Jerry Goldsmith is awesome ! I just love this film because of the action , the effects and just how everything is ! I recommend all Star Trek fans to see this one !
Groundhog Day is one of the best movies of all time !	Minor SpoilersGroundhog Day is one of MY favorites movies because its always funny and I like the cast and and the direction is very good by the co-writer of Ghostbusters Harold Ramis . I just love it each and every time Bill Murray relives Groundhog Day . He is so funny in it and I really like that blizzard that they wern't suppose to get . To ME every thing is good in Groundhog Day like the incredible story , music , direction , and many other things . If you love Bill Murray , Ghostbusters , Scrooged , or just to see a great funny but serious movie then I strongly suggest you see Groundhog Day ! This is truly a special movie !
Superman Lives ! ! !	Superman : The Movie , based on one of the greatest comic book heroes ever is brought to life in this feature film . Christopher Reeves stars as Superman and does such a wonder job at it . Superman has his powers and everything else in the film just like he does in the comic . The movie is a classic and is arguably the greatest movie of all time . Superman Spawned three other sequels as the decade went on . Truly a magical movie .
Great thrilling horror movie !	Identity is a very thrilling and spooky film ! The all star cast performed very well especially Ray Liotta , John C . McGinley , Amanda Peet , Jake Busey , Pruitt Taylor Vince , and John Cusak ! The music by Alan Silvestri was good . The film is a little hard to understand so it not predictable ! If you want to watch a horror , a mystery , a action , and a murder film then see Identity today because it has all of that in it !
A good movie !	Christopher Reeve was excellent ! This film is really Entertaining and you really never find out who the killer is until near the end . Reeve is such a good actor . Fans of Reeve , if you haven't seen Mortal Sins then do because its a good movie !
End of Days !	End of Days is some movie ! Arnold is very good in the movie ! Gabriel Byrne put on a fantastic performance ! Rod Steiger and Udo Kier were good as well ! Mark Margolis was in it also and its weird because he and Udo Kier were both in Ace Ventura : Pet Detective ! Look for Sven-Ole Thorsen who is in most of Arnold's movies ! The music is great by John Debney ! Peter Hyams direction was very good once again and if you like him I recommend you another film with epic proportions called The Relic ! Anyway End of Days is a great movie in My opinion and pits Arnold in one of his most different roles ! If you love the cast above then I strongly recommend you watch End of Days !
Great action film !	Starship Troopers is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Casper Van Dien , Dina Meyer Denise Richards , Jake Busey , Neil Patrick Harris , Clancy Brown , Seth Gilliam , Patrick Muldoon , Michael Ironside , Rue McClanahan , Marshall Bell , Eric Bruskotter , Matt Levin , and Blake Lindsley . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Ironside is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The gore , action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Basil Poledouris and great direction by Paul Verhoeven . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like asper Van Dien , Dina Meyer Denise Richards , Jake Busey , Neil Patrick Harris , Clancy Brown , Seth Gilliam , Patrick Muldoon , Michael Ironside , Rue McClanahan , Marshall Bell , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , and interesting then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! MovieNuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , Contact , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Good movie !	This is really an action packed movie that stars Charlie Sheen ! It has really good acting in it and I was really surprised by the acting by Nastassja Kinski , James Gandolfini , and Christopher McDonald ! Gandolfini and McDonald were great villains ! Good action , the film is never boring and has great music by Joel McNeely ! If you like the cast that's in this film and love action movies with a good score then check out Terminal Velocity !
Awesome Godzilla film !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemy Mechagodzilla , he too is awesome and arguably looks neater than the other Mechagodzilla did in previous films . I love it when he roars . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . Mechagodzilla II today !
Elf !	One of the funniest Christmas movies is Elf that stars Will Ferrell , James Caan , Bob Newhart , Edward Asner , Mary Steenburgen , Zooey Deschanel , and Michael Lerner ! Wil Ferrell is is just excellent in this film . He hilarious and charming and I really like his character . Caan is also very good in the film and so is Steenburgen . Lerner has a very good performance too . The acting by everyone else in the film is good . There are so many hilarious moments in this picture and when I saw Elf it I just could not believe it ! Its that funny ! I love Ferrell's walk in the park . The music by John Debeney is excellent ! If you want to see Wil Ferrell as a hilarious character and want to see a very good Christmas film then I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Elf today !
Really good film ! Chiklis is great in this picture !	Do Not Disturb is a very good film that has a good cast which includes William Hurt , Jennifer Tilly , Denis Leary , Francesca Brown , Michael Chiklis , Corey Johnson , Michael A . Goorjian , Jason Merrells , David Gwillim , Francis Matthews , Aaron Swartz , Tim Faraday , Cynthia Abma , Martyn Andrews , Inge Beekman , Mike Bieslijn , Chip Bray , Ali Car , Horace Cohen , and Stephen Crane ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Hurt , Tilly , Leary , Chiklis , and Johnson are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . Chiklis provides some really hilarious humor here in this picture ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like William Hurt , Jennifer Tilly , Denis Leary , Francesca Brown , Michael Chiklis , Corey Johnson , Michael A . Goorjian , Jason Merrells , David Gwillim , Francis Matthews , Aaron Swartz , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Crime , Comedy , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Alone in the Dark is a very cool film ! Its got everything a horror and action fan could possibly want !	Alone in the Dark is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Christian Slater , Tara Reid , Stephen Dorff , Frank C . Turner , Mathew Walker , Will Sanderson , Mark Acheson , Darren Shahlavi , and Karin Konoval , The acting by all of these actors is very good . Slater , Reid , and Dorff are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . I thought their looks were neat as well ! I do not understand why the heck this is on the IMDb Bottom 100 # 44 ? This movie gives you everything ! I thought that this was a very cool film ! Here's what Alone in the Dark gives you ! 1 . Incredible action and fights ! 2 . Long shoot outs rarely seen nowadays in films . 3 . Awesome creatures that's scary , extremely tough to kill and rips people to shreds ! 4 . Army battles monsters and monsters destroys the army ! 5 . A great story ! So what the heck is bad about this one ? Its seems like when there is a film that is really cool and everything happens that is when you people all join together and hate it ! As for the scene between Slater and Reid there was nothing there ! Just a love scene and not what these people say it is and I saw nothing a wrong with her looks in this film ! This is all my opinion ! I mean the thrills is really good , the movie is filmed very good , the music is very good , and the film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . If you haven't seen this film and if you like Christian Slater , Tara Reid , Stephen Dorff , Frank C . Turner , Mathew Walker , Will Sanderson , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Horror , Thrillers , Adventure , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you ignore all of the bad comments and see this film today !
The Ghost in the Machine !	The Ghost in the Machone is a very good scientific horror film that has a good cast which includes Karen Allen , Chris Mulkey , Rick Ducommun , Ted Marcoux , Wil Horneff , Jessica Walter , Brandon Quintin Adams , and Nancy Fish . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Karen Allen and Chris Mulkey are excellent in this film . The action is good . The music is very good by Graeme Revell . The film is quite exciting and the movie has some great horror moments ! This is a very good and thrilling film . Karen Allen , Chris Mulkey , Rick Ducommun , Nancy Fish , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above , thrillers , Sci-Fi , horror , and exciting action films then I recommend this film !
Trapped is a cool film !	May contain spoilers . Trapped is a very movie . Kevin Bacon is once again a bad guy . Bacon can really play a bad character really well . In My opinion this character doesn't beat Kevin's Sebastian Caine but is it still a good bad none the less . Kevin Bacon is one of My favorite actors of all time ! I never really thought of anything of Charlize Theron to tell you the truth until this I saw this film . She was just a lot better in Trapped and I know she has a lot of talent . Courtney Love was excellent ! She looked so good and she is a promising actress ! She is very different with her unusual voice and great looks . Stuart Townsend was good and He I think is going places . Pruitt Taylor Vince was very good and Dakota Fanning was excellent for being a little girl she sure can act ! One scene that was great was when Bacon and Theron was in the bed room ! I really liked trapped because of the cast and the plot . The movie is put together really well with action and suspenseful / thrilling moments ! If you haven't seen trapped yet and love Kevin Bacon and the above mentioned cast then watch Trapped and while you watch it you'll be trapped ! Its that good !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Shemp ! All Appearing in this short are Christine McIntyre , Norman Willis , Jock Mahoney , Stanley Blystone , George Chesebro , Heinie Conklin , Vernon Dent , Frank Ellis , and Blackie Whiteford ! This one is so hilarious ! Shemp has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . I strongly recommend this Three Stooges short !
One of the year's greatest films !	Collatreal is an excellent film that has a great cast including Tom Cruise , Jamie Foxx , Jada Pinkett Smith , Mark Ruffalo , Peter Berg , Bruce McGill , Richard T . Jones , and Thomas Rosales Jr . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Cruise is really excellent in this film . I thought that his performance was outstanding . The action is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by James Newton Howard . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Tom Cruise , Jamie Foxx , Jada Pinkett Smith , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great action film !	The Klansman is a great movie with a good cast including Lee Marvin , Richard Burton , Cameron Mitchell , O . J . Simpson , Lola Falana , David Huddleston , Luciana Paluzzi , Linda Evans , Ed Call John Alderson , John Pearce , David Ladd , Vic Perrin , Spence Wil-Dee ! The acting by all of these actors are very good . There are many great scenes in the film and all of the scenes are filmed really well ! Some of the scenes I like are when the KKK make their appearances and those are really excellent scenes ! When the KKK are battling is something else and it was filmed remarkably well ! The action is awesome ! The music is very good . Really this is a fantastic film and in My opinion the actors and actresses have some of their greatest performances in this film ! If you like any of the actors and actresses I mentioned above and if you like the movie To Kill a Mockingbird ( that stars Gregory Peck ) then I strongly recommend The Klansman !
Scotched in Scotland !	I like this one and this is one of My favorite ones with the Three Stooges ! I think Christine McIntyre was as good always ! All of the actors were good which included Philip Van Zandt , Herbert Evans , Charles Knight , Jimmy Logan , Theodore Lorch , and George Pembroke ! I like the spooky theme of this one like some of the Three Stooges shorts ! It has a good mystery to it ! The Stooges especially Moe are hilarious in Hot Scots ! One of the funniest parts in the short is when Moe and Christine McIntyre were dancing and she was giving the Earl's treasures to Theodore Lorch in disguise ! One other part in it is when the Stooges introduce themselves to the Earl and Shemp is getting knocked on the head by Moe's cane ! The Stooges Hot Scots is a hilarious spooky Three Stooges Short ! Like some other spooky type Three Stooges shorts this is a great Three Stooges short to watch over again around Halloween time !
Great one !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemies Mothra and the Mothra Larves they too are awesome . I love it when they roar . The fights between the monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . Mothra today !
Sylvester Stallone IS Judge Dredd !	Judge Dredd is a very good film ! Sylvester Stallone IS Judge Dredd ! He played this awesome character awesomely ! James Remar , Diane Lane , Max Von Sydow , Armand Assante , Jürgen Prochnow , Scott Wilson , Joan Chen , and Rob Schneider were all good ! The costumes and action were terrific ! The ABC Robot was fantastic ! The music by Alan Silvestri is tremendous ! In My opinion Judge Dredd is an underrated and misunderstood film that deserves a lot more than it has received ! The movie is a must see !
Great show !	This show is really something . It shows many groups of animals including Mammles , Birds , Fish , Insects , Reptiles and other magnificent creature departments . The show studies on some of the most unusual individuals in each group . For example , how a Koala the most unique among Australlia's Marsupiles like the Kangaroo , the Tasmainian Devil , and the Wombat . It explainers about their pouches and how their babies are inside , the behavior of the magnificent animals , and how the animals survive and more ! If you like animal shows with great profiles with unbelievably facts on the beautiful creatures of the world then check it on the Animal Planet Channel today !
Skeletons in the Closet !	Skeletons in the Closet is a very different film that has a unique cast which includes Treat Williams , Linda Hamilton , Jonathan Jackson , Schuyler Fisk , and Gordon Clapp . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Williams and Hamilton is excellent in this film . I thought they were really great together . The mystery is really good and some of it is unbelievable . The movie is filmed very differently and in fact I can't recall a film that's filmed similar like this one . The music is good . The film is quite exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Treat Williams , Linda Hamilton , Jonathan Jackson , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above , thrillers , dramas , and exciting films then I recommend this film !
Spawn is a great film ! One of the best !	Spawn is an awesome film that has a great cast including Michael Jai White , John Leguizamo , Martin Sheen , Theresa Randle , Nicol Williamson , D . B . Sweeney , Melinda Clarke , Miko Hughes , Sydni Beaudoin , Michael Papajohn , Frank Welker , and Todd McFarlane ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . White is excellent in this film . He perfect for this role ! Leguizamo was great and hilarious ! Sheen performed good and is a great villain . Nicol Williamson has a great performance here ! I love his voice ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good and special effects are outstanding . The music is great by Graeme Revell . Great directing by Mark A . Z . Dippé ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Michael Jai White , John Leguizamo , Martin Sheen , Theresa Randle , Nicol Williamson , D . B . Sweeney , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Horror , Fantasy , Comic , and interesting epic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Speed 2 : Cruise Control !	One of the most explosive and epic action sequels is Speed 2 : Cuise Control ! It stars Sandra Bullock , Willem Dafoe , Jason Patric , Bo Svenson , Temuera Morrison , Brian McCardie , Christine Firkins , Michael G . Hagerty , Colleen Camp , Joe Morton , and Glenn Plummer ! Bullock is good . Jason Patric was good . I like how his character is . Willem Dafoe is excellent ! He's cool , he's mean , and he means business ! Dafoe was perfect in My opinion ! Morrison was also very good . Plummer was also is funny and Morton and Svenson also performed good . The action is really great and you never know what to expect . The music by Mark Mancina is good and the direction by Jan de Bont is very good . I think that Speed 2 : Cruise Control is an excellent sequel which is always exciting ! If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see Willem Dafoe in a great performance then I strongly recommend that you watch or even buy Speed 2 : Cuise Control today !
Good flick !	Werewolf in a Girls ' Dormitory is one of those old drive in type movies which is actually a pretty good film . They acting is good by the cast but it seems like all of them were dubbed . This is a very unusual movie and the werewolf is different looking which he actually resembles the Werewolf of London of the Universal Monsters . Its amazing how some of the characters looked in the film . One actor had a bleach blonde hair style , another actor looked and acted like Walt Disney , the lead actress resembled Kim Cattrall , and the care taker looked like a ghoul without trying to be ! Its just something I noticed . This film isn't bad at all . This is part of a double feature which the other on the tape is called Blood Creature which is also a good oldie ! For horror and werewolf fans don't miss this one !
Really a treat !	This is a great documentary in located on the special features menu of The Bad Seed DVD featuring only one person and one person only and that's Patricia McCormack who played Rhoda in the classic 1956 film The Bad Seed ! It is amazing to see her in the film as a little girl and then a older woman in the program . She is very good in this . SHe tells all about the actors and actresses she worked with and how she began relationships with them . She also tells how much she wanted the role for the film . She explains about the play , the director and more ! It was really a treat to see her in the documentary ! If you love the film and are a big fan of Patricia McCormack and want to see her talk about the movie and the great times she had then I strongly recommend that you buy the DVD of The Bad Seed today !
Very good film !	The film is good and interesting . Its a very intelligent film in My opinion . Dustin Hoffman , Sharon Stone , and Samuel L . Jackson , Leive Schreiber and Peter Coyote in Sphere . The movie has good special effects and good music too by Elliot Goldenthal . If you like deep sea film and the above mentioned cast the Check out Sphere !
Great one with Joe !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short with Joe ! Emil Sitka , Gene Roth , Philip Van Zandt , Dan Blocker , Diana Darrin , Harriette Tarler , Arline Hunter , and Joe Palma are all in this one ! This is a funny one and its really cool and is a good one to watch and is one of most different Three Stooges shorts that was filmed . Recommended !
If a Body Meets a Body !	This is one of Curly's last short subjects but it is very good . Theodore Lurch is very good and of course the Stooges are as well . The stuff that happens in the room where the Stooges sleep is hilarious ! This spooky short is very funny and a good one to watch around Halloween !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a really a classic Three Stooges short . Vernon Dent is very good as the Judge . Paul Kruger , Eddie Laughton , and Al Thompson are in this one . I like the great acting by the Stooges especially by Moe . When Curly and Larry are in the car the communication between the two was really good . I recommend this one !
Great film !	Twilight Man is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Tim Matheson , Dean Stockwell , L . Scott Caldwell , Joel Polis , Yvette Nipar , Georgann Johnson , Katherine La Nasa , Leslie Neale , Zachary McLemore , Jim Grimshaw , Rick Warner , Michael Harding , Andrew Masset , Desiree Marie Velez , Amy Parrish , Keith Flippen , and Jeffrey Pillars . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Matheson and Stockwell are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is very good by Gary Chang and good directing by Craig R . Baxley . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Tim Matheson , Dean Stockwell , L . Scott Caldwell , Joel Polis , Yvette Nipar , Georgann Johnson , Katherine La Nasa , Leslie Neale , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Mysrery , Dramas , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
One of the greatest movies ever !	Twister has always been one of My favorites films ! I am a weather nut and this film in incredible ! It has great acting by Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt ! I think that both of them acted greatly together ! Their characters are very good and I like the way that they dress . Philip Seymour Hoffman was really the highlight actor in the film . He is so hilarious and his character is so colorful which in My opinion is one of the coolest characters ever in a movie ! Carey Elwes Jami Gertz , and Lois Smith also put on good performances . Look for Joey Slotnick in a scene very similar like the one in the movie that would come out years later , Hollow Man ! I loved that scene at the table at Meg's house where the guys are telling that story / joke . The special effects are tremendous ! The structure of the tornadoes and the power that they have and the unbelievable damage that they do is totally accurate in the movie ! Mark Mancina , one of the great composers of the Media Ventures composes an extraordinary score for Twister . The score has a great theme and an awesome choir ! I think that the score is one of the best ever ! The song " Respect the Wind " in the end credits by Van Halen is a beautiful piece of music and it fits perfectly ! I strongly recommend this film !
One of the funniest movies in My opinion !	This is My favorite Christmas movie ! Its so funny and it has an excellent cast and acting ! The film has non-stop laughs and I recommend all people who love comedies to rent this or even buy it ! Its the at funny !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! In My opinion this is a very funny short . Appearing in this short subject are Bud Jamison , Dudley Dickerson , Joyce Gardner , Julie Gibson , and Clarence Straight . The baby scenes with The Stooges are extremely funny and the cop scenes are cool . In My opinion those scenes are before their time ! I recommend this Three Stooges short !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Bud Jamison , James C . Morton , and Eddie Laughton ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . I strongly recommend this Three Stooges short !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Great movie !	I have always like this great baseball movie ! It has a good cast including two tremendous actors and two of My favorites Danny Glover and Christopher Lloyd ! Also in this movie is Ben Johnson , Brenda Fricker , Big Tony Longo , Tony Danza , and Matthew McConaughey ! Also Jay O . Sanders and Dermot Mulroney ! The film has great special effects and acting from all of the film's actors ! The baseball scenes are all realistic ! The music by composer Randy Edelman is very good and it fits the film very well ! Some of the actors who reminded Me the actual baseball personalities . Stoney Jackson's Ray Mitchell character reminded Me Royce Clayton , McConaughey's character reminded Me of Steve Finley , and Jay O . Sanders's commentator in My opinion resembled how Al Hrabosky looks today . This is a fantastic movie for non and Baseball fans and I strongly recommend this film !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Saved by the Belle is fair Three Stooges short . LeRoy Mason , Carmen Laroux , and Vernon Dent are in this one . Laroux has some good and funny scenes with The Stooges . Mason plays some character ! If you are a Three Stooges fan then watch Saved by the Belle for some good performances !
Lethal Weapon 3 ! Great sequel !	The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars . There's Lethal Weapon 1 , Lethal Weapon 2 , Lethal Weapon 3 , and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions ! Steve Kahan , Paul Tuerpe , and Mary Ellen Trainor are in all four as well . Shane Black did a great job with the writing ! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton , producer , Joel Silver , and director Richard Donner has directed all four ! Lethal Weapon 3 ! It stars Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , Joe Pesci , Rene Russo , Stuart Wilson , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Nick Chinlund , and Mark Pellegrino ! Look for Jan de Bont , Mic Rogers , and Danny Wynands ! Wilson was a good choice as the villain ! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson , Glover , Russo , and Pesci all put on excellent performances ! I think that Gibson and Russo make the perfect couple ! Great music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton ! I think Lethal Weapon 3 is great and its arguably My favorites of the series . Looking for action and love Mel Gibson , Danny Glover and the rest of the cast ? Watch Lethal Weapon 3 today ! I strongly recommend it !
A good movie !	This film is great ! Great acting from Timothy Dalton ! Good action and music by James Horner . Jennifer Connelly looked fine ! Alan Arkin and Paul Sorvino was good and Bill Campbell was a good pick to play the titled hero . Tiny Ron was excellent as Lothar ! If you like old time action and Timothy Dalton then see this good film today !
Predator 2 is a great movie !	Minor SpoilersPredator 2 is a great sequel . There is nothing wrong with the movie . I am satified on how they made it . Ofcourse Arnold is not in it but it would have been silly if he was . But it has great cast in it . You got Gary Busey , Danny Glover , Bill Paxton , Morton Downey Jr . , Maria Conchita Alonso , Ruben Blades , Adam Baldwin , Robert Davi , and yes Thomas Rosales Jr . gets killed in the beginning . But that is no suprise , he gets killed in just about every movie he is in and that is alot ! For example he got killed by the T-Rex in The Lost World , got shot in Universal Soldier , got killed in Tremors 2 , The Running Man , John Carpenter's Vampires , and Robocop 2 to name a few . I like to keep track of his record ! Anyway Predator 2 is as good as the first one and has lots of action , violent parts in it so it is not boring . The predator has more weapons this time around . Alan Silvestri's score in this is great ! Stan Winston has done it again ! If you like the 1st Predator you'll love this one . I sure thought it was good . Notes : Some important information I spotted in the film . 1 . Near the end when you see the Predator's spaceship , look for a skull of a alien ( from Aliens , the second Alien film ) in the trophy room . 2 . Speaking of Aliens , I think Bill Paxton is the only one that can say I was killed by the Aliens in the 2nd Alien film and by the Predator !
This is a classic ! One of the best films of the year , one of the best films of the decade , and definitely one of the best ever !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time . When I got into wrestling well over a decade ago I loved it so much that I had become a huge fan so I had to see this movie starring one of My favorite wrestlers of all time , Hulk Hogan ! Plus it also had other wrestlers and among talented actors that i was familiar with . This movie isn't just for wrestling fans however but it is also a family type movie with a little love story . Hogan's character Rip really cares for his family and friends . There is some really good wrestling scenes that shows you how in My opinion how much better wrestling was then than how it is today . To Me this is the best wrestling movie ever and it is one of MY favorites . I don't understand why this film has such a low rating . Either most of the people that see this film loves how wrestling is now and has no idea how wonderful wrestling was back years ago or you people just I've to complain . I will show below how I see the film . The Actors and Acting : Hulk Hogan as Rip : I thought that he was very good . For being his first starring role his performance is quite decent . I loved his 80's era look and to see him wear white and blue wrestling gear again was a treat . He is basically the same Hogan in the film as he is in the real wrestling events back in old days . What makes Hogan's performance a good one is his humor and emotion . He laughs and cries very convincingly . I believe this may be his greatest performance ever next to his Shep Ramsey persona in the classic Sci-Fi action comedy Suburban Commando ! Joan Severance as Samantha Moore : A quality actress with a lot of beauty . She has a terrific performance as well . Kurt Fuller as Brell : I've always like Fuller because he could play a real baddie and he plays a real baddie here ! His Brell character is such a major jerk but is a very memorable villain . I thought it was something to see Hogan ( who is a huge man ) stand next to Fuller who is also a big guy . This is probably Fuller's best performance to date . Tom ' Tiny ' Lister Jr . as Zeus : Without a doubt Lister's greatest performance next to his Bruno character is the classic film Armed and Dangerous . He is such a large man and neat individual and a perfect villain to fight Hogan . He is so believable as a psycho ! I miss the days of 89 and 90 when he was wrestling . Mark Pellegrino as Randy : A good performance is seen by Mark Pellegrino . Bill Henderson as Charlie : He to has a very good performance . Charles Levin as Ordway : A good performance is from this actor . David Paymer as Unger : A good performance is from this actor . Jesse Ventura as Commentator # 1 : It was really cool to see another real wrestling personality ! Jesse Ventura as Commentator # 1 : It was really cool to see another real wrestling personality especially by the Body ! Howard Finkel as Ring Announcer : It was really cool to see another real wrestling personality ! Bill Eadie as Jake Bullet : Just a treat to see Ax of Demolition ( one of My favorite tag teams of all time ) fight Hogan in the beginning of this film ! Joseph A . Marella as Referee : It was cool to see a real ref in the film . Stan Hansen as Neanderthal : One of the best wrestlers in the history of wrestling in My opinion is Stan Hansen and he has some good screen time here ! He delivers some really good but a bit nasty humor . He is really hilarious ! Great performance ! Jeep Swenson as Lugwrench Perkins : A good performance but he mostly gets destroyed by Zeus but he did have a moment of looking good . The Action : This is one of the things that makes it so good . The fighting and the wrestling is just classic ! The Music : Jim Johnson who has composed nearly all of the WWF ( now WWE ) wrestlers theme entrance music for so many year composed are great score for the film . It really fits and just sounds good ! There is so much more then this that is great about the film . No Holds Barred has always been one of My favorite films and feel its a classic and in My opinion because of its specialness its one of the greatest films of time . The film should have such a higher rating then the currently ! If you are an old school wrestling like I and have never seen this film please ignore the bad comments and see this great classic to ! I strongly recommend it !
Great sequel !	Perhaps the most different and most unusual film in the series , Star Trek IV : The Voyage Home is a welcomed addition as it shows us the importance of our wildlife . I like the subject of the story as Whales are one of my favorite animals of the world . The music is great and the film is never boring . I liked it and I think all Star Trek fans will also !
Good film !	The Dead Zone is a very good horror film that has a good cast which includes Christopher Walken , Brooke Adams , Tom Skerritt , Herbert Lom , and Anthony Zerbe . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and the horror is also good . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Michael Kamen . This film is directed greatly by David Cronenberg . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you are a fan of Christopher Walken , Brooke Adams , Tom Skerritt , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Drama , and Thrillers , and Stephen King then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuutball's NOTE : I also strongly recommend the new Dead Zone pilot film and the new series !
Thinner !	Thinner is a very good horror film that has a good cast which includes Robert John Burke , Joe Mantegna , Lucinda Jenney , Michael Constantine , Kari Wuhrer , John Horton , Daniel von Bargen , and Stephen King ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Burke is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . Mantegna and Constantine also have great performances ! The thrills is really good and the horror is also good with some gore . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Daniel Licht . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you are a fan of Robert John Burke , Joe Mantegna , Lucinda Jenney , Michael Constantine , Kari Wuhrer , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , and Thrillers , and Stephen King then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great film !	True Lies is an excellent film ! I think its one of Arnold's best ! Also starring is Jamie Lee Curtis , Tom Arnold , Bill Paxton , Tia Carrere Art Malik , Eliza Dushku , Grant Heslov , and Charlton Heston ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Arnold is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed great . Curtis was also good . Paxton , Carrere , and Malik also had good performances . The action is really awesome . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Vrad Fiedel . The directing is great by James Cameron . The film is superbly exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a great and truly a wonderful action film . If you love Arnold , Jamie Lee Curtis , Tom Arnold , Bill Paxton , Tia Carrere , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , and interesting Thrilling films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Here are some other Arnold recommendations : Conan the Barbarian , Conan the Destroyer , Red Sonja , The Terminator , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day , Terminator 3 : The Rise of the Machines , Raw Deal , The Running Man , Red Heat , Commando , Predator , Total Recall , Kindergarten Cop , Last Action Hero , Junior , Eraser , Jingle All The Way , Batman and Robin , End of Days , and Collateral Damage !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Joe is none other than Muscle Up a Little Closer ! All appearing in this short are the Maxine Gates , Harriette Tarler , Ruth White , and Matt Murphy ! There are so many funny parts here . Joe and Gates are very good together in this one . This is a very hilarious short and I recommend it !
One of the funniest movies !	The Problem child movies are very funny ! John Ritter , Amy Yasbec , and Jack Warden , and Michael Richards are all good in the film ! It is always sad to to see the great late wrestler Kerry Von Erich . The film has some of the more hilarious scenes ever ! . If you like comedy film with bratty kids then check this out !
Rear Window is a classic and one of the best !	Rear Window is a great film that has a great cast including James Stewart , Grace Kelly , Wendell Corey , Thelma Ritter , Raymond Burr , Judith Evelyn , Ross Bagdasarian , Georgine Darcy , Sara Berner , Frank Cady , Jesslyn Fax , Rand Harper , Irene Winston , and Havis Davenport ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . James Stewart , Grace Kelly , Wendell Corey , Thelma Ritter , and Raymond Burr really excellent and hilarious in this film . I thought that their performances was great . The thrills and mystery is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed and directed great by Alfred Hitchcock . The music is great by Frans Waxman ! The film is really magical and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a classic and thrilling film . If you like James Stewart , Grace Kelly , Wendell Corey , Thelma Ritter , Raymond Burr , Judith Evelyn , Ross Bagdasarian , the rest of the cast in the film , Waxman's great score and Hitchcock's great directing , Mystery , Crime , Action , Adventure , Family , Thrillers , Comedy , Romance , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great movie with a great cast !	I don't know what is so bad about this movie . The cast performing well and being Charlie Sheen , Donald Sutherland , Linda Hamilton , Stephen Lang , Nicholas Turturro , Ben Gazzara , and the film having tons of action and a great score by Bruce Broughton and being directed by George P . Cosmatos how in the wide , wide world can you go wrong ? Lang was really the ultimate villain ! I really loved his role and performed neatly and perfectly ! If there is a movie with at least one of these great actors its a must see or at least it is with Me ! If you are looking for a good action packed conspiracy movie with the above mention cast then check this one out as I recommend it very much !
Great Stephen King movie !	Cujo is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Dee Wallace-Stone , Danny Pintauro , Daniel Hugh Kelly , Christopher Stone , Ed Lauter , Kaiulani Lee , Billy Jayne , Mills Watson , Sandy Ward , Jerry Hardin , and Merritt Olsen . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Wallace-Stone is really excellent in this film . I thought that she performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Dee Wallace-Stone , Danny Pintauro , Daniel Hugh Kelly , Christopher Stone , Ed Lauter , Kaiulani Lee , Billy Jayne , Jerry Hardin , the rest of the cast in the film , Stepen King , Horror , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like Stephen King then I recommend that you check out the following films ! Creepshow , Creepshow 2 , The original Dead Zone , Salem's Lot , Silver Bullet , Maximum Overdrive , The Running Man , Graveyard Shift , It , The Shining ( mini series ) , Nightflyer , The Green Mile , and Dreamcatcher !
A Time to Kill !	A Time to Kill is a great movie with one of the biggest castings ever in My opinion and it includes Matthew McConaughey , Sandra Bullock , Samuel L . Jackson , Kevin Spacey , Oliver Platt , Charles Dutton , Brenda Fricker , Donald Sutherland , Kiefer Sutherland , Patrick McGoohan , Ashley Judd , John Diehl , Chris Cooper , Kurtwood Smith , and M . Emmet Walsh ! The acting by all of these actors are very good . There are many great scenes in the film and all of the scenes are filmed really well ! Some of the scenes I like are when the KKK make their appearances and those are really excellent scenes ! When the KKK are marching in the street and battling is something else and it was filmed remarkably well ! The music by Elliot Goldenthal is good . Really this is a fantastic film and in My opinion the actors and actresses have some of their greatest performances in this film ! If you like any of the actors and actresses I mentioned above and if you like the movie To Kill a Mockingbird ( that stars Gregory Peck ) then I strongly recommend A Time to Kill !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Three Smart Saps . In this short are Vernon Dent , Bud Jamison , John Tyrrell , Eddie Laughton , and Victor Travers . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent and Jamison . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Great animated short !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Another great Looney Tunes film !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Studio Stoops . In this short are Kenneth MacDonald , Vernon Dent , and Joe Palma . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent and MacDonald . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one !
Young and Innocent !	Young and Innocent is a very good and unique Alfred Hitchcock film that has a great cast ! The acting by all of the actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is very , very good . Great direction by Alfred Hitchcock ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a scary and thrilling film . If you like Alfred Hitchcock and he many classic films such as Psycho , Rear Window , The Man Who Knew Too Much , The Trouble with Harry , The Birds , Vertigo , Strangers On A Train , Spellbond , The Rope , his other classic films , Horror , Mystery , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , Comedy , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great film ! Denzel Washington has an excellent performance !	Man on Fire is a excellent film that has a great cast including Denzel Washington , Dakota Fanning , Marc Anthony , Radha Mitchell , Christopher Walken , Giancarlo Giannini , Rachel Ticotin , Jesús Ochoa , Mickey Rourke ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Washington is just fabulous in this picture . His performance in this film is arguably he greatest ! The action is really good and some of it is incredible . The movie is filmed very differently and in fact I can't recall a film that's filmed like this one . The music is good by Lisa Gerrard and Harry Gregson-Williams . The film is quite exciting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Denzel Washington , Dakota Fanning , Christopher Walken , Rachel Ticotin , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above , thrillers , action and exciting films then I strongly recommend this film !
Abbott and Costello Meet Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde !	This Abbott and Costello movie is pretty good . Abbott and Costello was good as always ! It has excellent acting by the late great Boris Karloff ! The movie has the same music as Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein film . It entertaining and if you like Abbott and Costello and Universal Monsters then see Abbott and Costello Meet Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde !
Great John Candy movie !	This in My opinion is one of the late great John Candy's best films ! The story , acting , music , and cast is just right . The film is very funny and it is never boring . I just love the Uncle Buck character . The character always wants to have a good time , is always kind and does small and big things for people that he doesn't even have to do . I wish more people in the world was like this . Anyway I have seen it many times and in My opinion its a classic ! If you haven't seen Uncle Buck and love John Candy , silly and serious comedies then check out this great movie ! I highly recommend it !
Quick Change !	Quick Change is a very good film that has a good cast includes Bill Murray , Geena Davis , Randy Quaid , Jason Robards , Phil Hartman , Tony Shalhoub , Stanley Tucci , Michael Chapman , and Kurtwood Smith . The acting by all of these actors is very good especially by Paré and Allen I thought The mystery is good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed good . The music is great . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Bill Murray , Geena Davis , Randy Quaid , Jason Robards , Phil Hartman , Kurtwood Smith , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Comedy , Crime , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Very good movie !	Mystic River , A film directed by Clint Eastwood stars a well known cast including Sean Penn , Tim Robbins , Kevin Bacon , Laurence Fishburne , Marcia Gay Harden , Laura Linney , Spencer Treat Clark , Robert Wahlberg , and Eli Wallach ! The acting is very good by these great actors ! Penn did an excellent acting job here . Robbins and Bacon also proved they can pull off great acting ! Eli Wallach also did a very good acting job here in a brief role . The music by Clint Eastwood was good and fits the film . The film is a very good mystery and will keep you guessing through out the entire time ! If you love these actors and want to see great directing by Clint Eastwood then watch Mystic River !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Three Hams on Rye . In this short are the beautiful Christine McIntyre , Nanette Bordeaux , Emil Sitka , Mildred Olsen , and Blackie Whiteford . The acting by these actors are good especially by McIntyre and Sitka . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
Son of Frankenstein !	This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series ! The monsters look great ! Boris Karloff is once again great as Frankenstein's monster ! His performance is excellent ! Bela Lugosi performs excellently as Ygor ! The makeup by both of these actors is really tremendous ! The music is great ! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good . In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original ! In My opinion I think that its great to have these two characters to be in the same film ! If you like Boris Karloff , Bela Lugosi , the classic Universal Monsters , great black and white movies , and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today !
Great action packed spoof !	Minor SpoilersThe sequel is great ! Charlie Sheen was very good and so was the late great Lloyd Bridges ! The late great Richard Crenna does it all over again in the awesome comedy ! I give credit to Sheen . I don't know if he really built his body up or what but it looked impressive ! The film has so many hilarious scenes . The one with the chicken in the arrow is just simply nuts ! The sound effects in the film sound more legit than the ones in the serious films and an example of this is in the fighting scene in Thailand and that is My favorite part of the film ! Sheen puts on a good performance as the spoofy Rambo Topper Harley and if you like the first Hots ! check this out and if you love the real Rambo films with Sylvester Stallone and Richard Crenna and can't get enough of them and haven't seen Hot Shots ! Part Deux then this film is great alternative for you !
Great movie ! A must see !	The Phone Booth is a very clever and unusual movie . Decent acting from the cast including a great performance from Colin Farrell ! Forest Whitaker was very good . Kiefer Sutherland was excellent ! The performances from Radha Mitchell , Katie Holmes , and Paula Jai Parker were good . I like how the film had the Hulk like split screens . I also like that fact that it focused on the victim and the killer almost the entire hour and twenty-one minutes ! The end is just unbelievable ! Joel Schumacher is a very good director in My opinion and this movie deserves a lot of attention in My opinion . If you want a short film that keeps you going until the end and an ending that is very surprising then check out the Phone Booth !
Poltergeist , the ultimate ghost movie !	The Poltergeist trilogy is arguably one of the best movies series ever ! The first Poltergeist is truly a masterpiece . Everyone was really good . Craig T . Nelson was really good . JoBeth Williams being a amazing actress performed as she is was really , really good and the late Heather O'Rourke and Dominique Dunne performed well . Zelda Rubinstein , Beatrice Straight , Oliver Robins , James Karen , and the rest of the cast was good . The special effects are spectacular , the music is perfect by Jerry Goldsmith , and the combination of Steven Spielberg , Tobe Hooper , Frank Marshal , and Kathleen Kennedy make this move special one indeed . There is just something special about this film . It has a big effect on you . I just love how the sky views are in the movie . This is just a classic movie and its very hard to defeat . There are two sequels to Poltergeist being Poltergeist II : The Other Side and Poltergeist III . In My opinion they are fine sequels and are just as entertaining and scary as the first . If you are a big fan of horror and ghost movies and what to see a movie with similar effects and style like the classic Ghostbusters series then look no further than the ultimate fright fest , Poltergeist !
Good Steven Seagal movie !	Ticker may not be the greatest film and the best Steven Seagal film and it might not have the biggest budget but in My opinion it doesn't deserve to be on the IMDb bottom 100 : # 63 . It has a great cast with Seagal and they are Dennis Hopper , Tom Sizmore , Peter Greene , Jamie Pressly , Nas , TLC member Chilli , and in a very short part Ice-T ! The action is pretty good . Seagal doesn't fight much but the film is never boring either . I really like Dennis Hopper in this with his Irish accent and his goatee ! Sizemore was very good . I also liked Peter Greene in the film as well . This is the second film he has been in with Steven Seagal ! If you haven't seen Ticker and love Steven Seagal and the cast mention above then I recommend that you check out Ticker soon !
Rear Window ! Reeve is great !	Rear Window the remake is a good film that has a good cast which includes Christopher Reeve , Daryl Hannah , Robert Forster , Ruben Santiago-Hudson , Anne Twomey , Ritchie Coaster , Allison Mackie , Ali Marsh , Julie Barker , Maggie Kiley , and Peter Giles . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Lowe is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Christopher Reeve , Daryl Hannah , Robert Forster , Ruben Santiago-Hudson , Anne Twomey , Ritchie Coaster , the rest of the cast in the film , Remakes , Thrillers , Dramas , Crime Myster , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Mothman Prophecies ! One of the greatest films !	The Mothman Prophecies is a great spooky film . The cast is very good . Richard Gere , Will Patton , Laura Linney , Debra Messing , and Alan bates all acted greatly in this film . In fact , this may arguably be the best film these actors has ever been in . Their characters are very likable . The music is tremendous . There are so many countless great scenes in this picture but one that is incredible is when Will Patton is in his truck and he is confronted by The Mothman ! This scene with the great showing of it , the color , and the music made it extraordinary ! The film is so interesting . Mothman Prophecies is great film . Its one of the best that I have seen ! I strongly recommend this film ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I believe in The Mothman as I am a believer of most of unidentified creatures in Cryptozoology , mythical and mysterious creatures in the world such as Bigfoot , The Lochness Monster , The Jersey Devil , The Goatman , The Chupacabra , and among many others . I also believe in the unexplained phenomena and mysteries such as aliens and spirits . Whether you are a believer in these things or not , I believe they are very real . We are not alone in the universe and we certainly do not know everything that is on our Earth ! These are My thoughts ! Thanks for reading !
A very good Dragon movie !	This movie was awesome ! Great effects , great looking dragons and tremendous acting by Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey ! Izabella Scorupco looked different but good ! Bale's character showed more near the end . Matthew McConaugheys ' awesome look with a bald head , beard and tattoos and great character made this movie even better in My opinion . I was surprised what happened near the end . If you want too see a great dragon then see The Reign of Fire !
Good film !	Roswell : The Aliens Attack is a very good film that has a good cast includes Steven Flynn , Kate Greenhouse , Heather Hanson , Brent Stait , Sean McCann , Donnelly Rhodes , Ben Baxter , Robert Huculak . The acting by all of these actors is very good especially by Paré and Allen I thought The mystery is good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed good . The music is great . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Steven Flynn , Kate Greenhouse , Heather Hanson , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Science Fiction , Thrillers , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
I love this Mortal Kombat !	Minor SpoilersBased on one of the greatest fighting games ever is very entertaining and is filled with action , good acting , and great special effects . Most of the original characters are here . Christopher Lambert plays Lord Rayden very well and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa plays Shang Tsung excellent ! Goro is huge and is very powerful in this just like he is in the video game . He speaks aswell and those four arms of his is menacing . Mortal Kombat fans will love this movie !
Great film !	The Transporter is an excellent film in My opinion . Jason Statham is excellent in this film ! He performed very well . He is a good actor and he has a tremendous physique . I am amazed all the things he can do in a film ! Matt Schulze performed well as the villain and his character was quite ruthless . Ric Young also played a good villain . Qi Shu was also good . The action is incredible ! I just couldn't believe some of the scenes in this picture ! The action is outstanding ! The music by Stanley Clarke is great ! The Transporter is one of the most exciting action films I have ever seen and if you love action and want to see Jason Statham as a great action star then I strongly recommend this film !
Stephen King's Cat's Eye !	One of Stephen King's greatest stories in My opinion turned into a live feature film is Cat's Eye ! The film has three very interesting stories with some good actors including James Woods , Alan King , Kenneth McMillan , Robert Hays , Candy Clark , James Naughton , Drew Barrymore , Mike Starr , and Charles Dutton ! The acting by all of these actors are very good . The stories as I mention are very good and funny in a way though the film is serious . Quitter's Inc is a unique story , The Ledge is arguably the best of the lot but My favorite one is The General . I love the little demon . He is so cute and mean looking at the same time and I am amazed how real looks ! Carlo Rambaldi did an excellent job ! The music by Alan Silvestri is great ! If you like the cast mentioned above and love Stephen King then I strongly recommend Cat's Eye !
Great action and awesome camra work !	We just rented Behind Enemy Lines and I think it was a very good film . Pretty good acting and very intence action with just totally awesome camra work ! Gene Hackman has always been a great actor and once again he was very good but Owen Wilson's acting to ME has always been questionible and I knew this movie required a serious role for him and I didn't think he could pull it off . Wilson did pull it off and now I he can be a serious guy when he wants to . David Keith was good but I just wanted him to have a bigger role but that is really the only disappointment in this movie . This has great photographey and the end was excellent . There hasn't been a big battle scene like that in quite awhile ! I recommend any fan of , Hackman's , Wilson's , Keith's , and / or any war movie fan to see this great movie !
Great film !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is one most unique Godzilla films and its a great one . The story is very good and I really like the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemy The Smog Monster AKA Hedorah he too is awesome . Its cool how the monster attacks and I also love it when he moves . The fights between the Kinbg of the Monsters and Hedorah is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is very good . I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons . If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . The Smog Monster today !
The Grudge !	The Grudge is a very good and scary film that has a great cast including Sarah Michelle Gellar , Jason Behr , William Mapother , Clea DuVall , KaDee Strickland , Grace Zabriskie , Bill Pullman , Rosa Blasi , Ted Raimi , Ryo Ishibashi , Yoko Maki , Yuya Ozeki , Takako Fuji , and Takashi Matsuyama ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Christopher Young . Great direction by Takashi Shimizu . The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a scary and thrilling film . If you like Sarah Michelle Gellar , Jason Behr , William Mapother , Clea DuVall , KaDee Strickland , Grace Zabriskie , Bill Pullman , Rosa Blasi , Ted Raimi , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Mystery , Thrillers , Comedy , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Shemp is none other than Wam Bam Slam ! All appearing in this short are Matt McHugh , Alyn Lockwood , Doris Revier , Wanda Perry ! There are so many funny parts here . This is a very hilarious short . There is another similar Three Stooges short like this one called Parden My Clutch and I recommend both !
One good Werewolf movie !	Minor SpoilersThis is one of My favorite Werewolf films . I remember in 1996 seeing a trailer of Bad Moon on TV one night before Halloween and it was the only trailer I saw too and it seemed like it came and left as soon as it arrived : ( I really like the story of the film and the cast . Mariel Hemingway looked good and played her part good Dennis the Menaces ' Mason Gamble was good too but Michael Paré was great and especially when he turned into the werewolf . The beginning of it has a sex scene that I don't care for simply because I think sex scenes ruins a good movie but it is OK in this film because of what happens during it ! The werewolf suit and effects are top notch and is arguably the greatest looking werewolf in a movie ! There is some gore but its not the goriest . All werewolf fans check this one out as I don't think you'll be disappointed !
Kiss the Girls !	Kiss the Girls is an excellent thriller ! It has very good acting by cast ! Morgan Freeman was great and Ashley Judd was very good ! Brian Cox was good as well ! I thought Cary Elwes was something else ! The other cast members Alex McArthur , Tony Goldwyn , Jay O . Sanders , and Richard T . Jones were good . Is it Me or did he try to act and sound like Denzel Washington ? Any way the movie is good and focuses on a great character named Alex Cross ! In case you don't know there is another film that Morgan Freeman reprises his role as Alex Cross and its called Along Came A Spider ! It is My favorite of the two but I am not saying that there is anything wrong with Kiss the Girls which is an excellent movie ! I recommend you see both films !
A great pilot that evolved into a great series !	This is the one that started the superb series that is currently airing ! The pilot film stars its regulars Anthony Michael Hall , Nicole de Boer , Chris Bruno , John L . Adams , David Ogden Stiers , and Kristen Dalton . I really liked this film and I have really grown to love the series ! I can't say that I am familiar with any of these people but I will say that everyone is very good . Hall makes the whole thing so great . He is really a gifted actor . He makes Johnny Smith have such a great personality and a great guy . Its a weird thing but he kind of reminds of one of My favorite wrestlers the late great Curt ' Mr . Perfect ' Henning . Nicole de Boer is a fine actress . Bruno is very good and like hall he reminds Me of another wrestler and shooter fighter and that is Ken Shamrock . Adams is very good and hilarious . Stiers is a very talented veteran actor and he reminds Me movie composer John Williams . Dalton is a good actress too . The music is very good . I love the special effects and how everything stops ! If you love Stephen King and really entertaining stuff then I strongly recommend that you see this today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : This pilot movie is located on the first disc of the Dead Zone : The Complete First Seaon DVD Set . It does however have its own release on VHS and DVD but I recommend that you pick up the DVD set instead of the single because of the on going excellent series ! Stop by Amazon . com today ! You wont be disappointed !
Great thriller !	Dragonfly is great thrilling mystery that stars Kevin Costner , Joe Morton , Kathy Bates , and Linda Hunt ! The movie keeps you going from beginning to end . With good acting by the above mentioned cast and being handled the way it was makes this deep but excellent movie a winner !
Another classic Looney Tunes film !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
The MuMmy : In-depth Review !	I am a big fan of mummy movies especially the new MuMmy films . I adore the first MuMmy and I just love The MuMmy Returns ! I think the films are great , funny , and just spectacular ! In My opinion they are some of the most accurate Egyptian movies out there . The movies are packed with tons of awesome action , tremendous special effects , great acting by all of the actors and actresses who I believe were born to play their roles in both films , great writing and directing by Stephen Sommers , and two of the most astounding scores ever by Jerry Goldsmith and Alan Silvestri ! I love the history of ancient Egypt and I think that it is the most extraordinary history next to the time of the Dinosaurs and Prehistoric life ! There are so many mysteries of Egypt that no one knows and some of it I believe is so incredible . One day we may find out how the wonders of Egypt were created and why the greatness and beauty of the designs look like the way they do . I believe the entire history means something special . Any way below is an In-depth look at most of the characters in The MuMmy Returns ! THE HEROES : Brendan Fraser as Richard O'Connell - This big strong man is a former foreign legion leader and is now married to Evelyn Carnahan who saved his life from being hung by the late Warden Gad Hassan ( Omid Djalili ) and now has a young boy . He is a loving father and husband and will do anything for them . He is a great person and has become an avid adventurer thanks to a little help . Years ago after his future wife accidentally resurrected the high priest they won a battle that seemed unwinnable . Now the powerful mummy has been unearthed once again . Now the charming couple with the help of Evy's brother Jonathan , son Alex , and old friends Ardeth Bey , and Izzy must fight this incredible being once more . Rachel Weisz as Evelyn Carnahan O'Connell - Evy , as she called is having visions and after several of them she realizes that she was once a princess in ancient Egypt . She also realizes that it was no mistake meeting and marrying Rick . She loves her husband and son very much and like him she too will do anything for them . She will a have busy long while with old friends and foes . John Hannah as Jonathan Carnahan - The loving brother of Evy . Though it seems like he is always prone to getting into some kind of trouble he does have some courage but whenever there is a time to find anything valuable he will take it especially gold ! Oded Fehr as Ardeth Bay - This Medjai warrior is the leader of over ten tribes of thousands Medjai swordsmen and Bey himself is an excellent swordsman . Lock-Nah is part of the occult that is with Imhotep and will Ardeth finally settle the score with his arch-nemesis ? His people have been the protector of the City of the Dead for over three millennia so no evil escapes . Thanks to spoilers nine years ago and a second resurrection of the creature they now have failed and must fight a battle that is impossible to win ! Freddie Boath as Alexander O'Connell - Alex is a smart young man who has smarts just like his parents . He loves Egypt and adventure . When he accidentally puts on the Bracelet of Anubis he will have a long adventure that will bring fourth another unforgettable journey ! Shaun Parkes as Izzy Buttons - Izzy and Rick O'Connell have had many adventures together . Now they along with Rick's lovely wife Evy , her good hearted but silly brother , and the brave Ardeth Bey will have the biggest adventure ever ! THE VILLAINS : Arnold Vosloo as Lord Imhotep - The high priest was once resurrected and regenerated completely after sucking the life out of gun fighting Americans Mr . Henderson ( Stephen Dunham ) , Mr . Daniels ( Corey Johnson ) , Mr . Burns ( Tuc Watkins ) , and Egyptologist Dr . Allen Chamberlain ( Jonathan Hyde ) nearly a decade ago . His huge dust storm that he created killed Captain Winston Havlock ( Bernard Fox ) . He was also served by the late Beni Gabor ( Kevin J . O'Connor ) who betrayed Rick O'Connell . The creature as Ardeth Bey calls this misunderstood phenom was defeated by the O'Connells but now is brought back to life by Baltus Hafez and his secret occult . The reincarnated Anck Su Namun is in cahoots with this very occult and she is the one that led the current curator of the British Museum and his men to the area where the mummy was left buried . Soon they will be reunited and their love will an eternal love . It is the year of the scorpion and the Scorpion King is now superior and for someone to rule Anubis ' army they must kill this incredible beast . Imhotep's power is much greater then ever before and he is the only one in the entire world that can defeat him . Patricia Velasquez as Meela Nais - This bad beauty is the love of Imhotep . Her and Baltus Hafez's secret occult succeed at finding the mummy and will set fourth another campaign of destruction . Meela locks the door of one of the train cars and traps Red , Spivey , and Jaques and like the Americans they too get drained by Imhotep . Once fully regenerated he is more powerful than ever and soon he and his lover will be reunited . Alun Armstrong as Baltus Hafez - Since the demise of Dr . Terrence Bey ( Erick Avari ) things have run amok in England . Baltus Hafez is now the current curator of the British Museum and is also the leader of the secret occult who has a very important mission . This red turban occult is armed with guns and ready for anything . He and Meela join forces to bring Imhotep back from the underworld . They know it is the year of the scorpion and they also know that the high priest is the only one powerful enough to destroy the Scorpion King ! Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje as Lock-Nah - This big and muscular master swordsman is the Curator's first hand man . Lock-Nah has had a feud with Medjai leader Ardeth Bey for many years and now is the time for them to settle it but who will prevail ? Bruce Byron as Red - Red is an intelligent killer and will stop at nothing at doing his job ! Joe Dixon as Jacques - This muscular man along with Spivey and Red is nobody to mess around with . He is as superstitious and as he is smart ! Tom Fisher as Spivey - Though maybe careless he is a killer along with Red and Jacques . ANCIENT EGYPT CHARACTERSThe Rock as Mathayus the Scorpion King - After defeating Lord Memnon Mathayus became the first Pharaoh of Egypt . Mathayus was a great and intelligent fighter and he knew many fighting tactics . With his large muscular physique and brute strength he could defeat just about anyone with a weapon or in hand to hand combat . He was a master swordsman and archer . Just not a king but he was also an adored leader in battle . He led his Akkadian army of over twenty-thousand warriors against the Sumerian enemy which they too had an army of soldiers in the thousands . This battle between these two unstoppable legions lasted almost a decade . The Akkadians were eventually defeated . Mathayus and what was left of his fallen comrades walked the desert until they fell to their doom . Mathayus , on a sand dune got on his knees and begged the lord of the dead Anubis that if the dark lord would grant him an army to defeat the Sumerians he would give the dog faced one his soul . Anubis agreed and it was right then Mathayus and Anubis made a pact . Mathayus led the nine foot tall Anubis warriors and defeated the enemy . The underworld God then took Mathayus ' soul . Though the Scorpion King never met the commanding personality called Imhotep due to them being in two different eras but thousands of years later it would be the year of the scorpion and Mathayus would be more powerful than ever only in a different body form and by a strange coincidence the high priest would return and he too would be super human . The two historic icons would have a meeting of Armageddon ! Arnold Vosloo as Imhotep - This man was a high priest , medicine man , and a philosopher . He was an intelligent individual . This handsome man had a relationship in secret with the Pharaoh's wife Anck Su Namun and later murdered her father with the help of his dream lover . After she killed herself he went to the City of the Dead to bring her back but failed and he suffered the most horrible curse and centuries later he would bring unbelievable catastrophes to man kind ! Aharon Ipalé as Pharaoh Seti I - The father of Princess Nefertiti and husband of Anck Su Namun . Seti I didn't know that his wife had a secret relationship with his high priest Imhotep and when he found out it cost him his life . Rachel Weisz as Princess Nefertiti - The daughter of Pharaoh Seti I was a skilled fighter . Though she was beaten in a battle against Anck Su Namun she was chosen by her father to guard the bracelet of Anubis and she witnessed the slaying of her dear father . Patricia Velasquez as Anck Su Namun - The wife of Pharaoh Seti I was a beautiful but an evil woman . She defeated the Pharaoh's daughter and became his protector . She along with her other lover Imhotep killed Seti I and later done her own self in after Imhotep was taken away . Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you love mummy films I recommend the following : The Mummy ( 1932 ) , The Mummy ( 1959 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) The Mummy Lives ( 1993 ) , Tale of the Mummy ( 1998 ) , The MuMmy ( 1999 ) , The Scorpion King ( 2002 ) , The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) , and The MuMmy : QUEST FOR THE LOST SCROLLS ( The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) VHS movie ) , and Bubba Ho-Tep ( 2002 ) !
Great film !	Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Johnny Messner , KaDee Strickland , Karl Yune , Morris Chestnut , Matthew Marsden , Nicholas Gonzalez , Eugene Byrd , Salli Richardson , and Andy Anderson . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Messner is really excellent in this film . I thought that the performance by this muscular actor was great . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed excellently . The special effects is also great . The music by Nerida Tyson-Chew is outstanding . I recommend that you stop by Amazon . com and buy the score ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like the cast mentioned in the film , Thrillers , Action , Horror , and interesting giant snake films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Lost Skeleton of Cadavra is an unbelievably hilarious film ! Its Plan 9 from Outer Space meets the Night of the Living Dead ! Oh My !	The Lost Skeleton of Cadavra is a great reminder of the old low budget flicks back in the 1950's ! The movie is just hilarious from start to finish with bad acting , bad dialog , bad effects , bad everything ! Yes its so darn bad its so darn good ! The film actually reminded Me of two classics which are Plan 9 from Outer Space and the original Night of the Living Dead ! Plus the movie is hilarious ! I haven't laughed like I did when I watched this film in I don't know how long ! The tip , tip , tip , tip gag and the nose diving the food plates was so hilarious ! The skeleton itself was hilarious . The voice is actually sounds like some type of dubbed voice in a Japanese film . think Spectre-Man . Oh and what about the strings that you can see on his arms and legs ! The Animala character is believe it or not funny ! Always agree ! The beginning credits were really good . The dialog is enough to make a person laugh . The special effects are really funny too ! The movie is actually filmed very good however . The music is really great . I like how the end credits are with the actors looking at the camera and smiling . Even the Mutant with his corn field body , amphibian face , and carrot fingers reveals the man in the suit for crying out loud ! Can you believe it ? The film is really funny and the movie really keeps you laughing until the end . This really an entertaining , exciting , and hilarious film . If you like Fay Masterson , Andrew Parks , Susan McConnell , Brian Howe , Jennifer Blaire , Larry Blamire , Dan Conroy , Robert Deveau , Darren Reed , the rest of the cast in the film , Mystery , Horror , Sci-Fi , Comedy , Action , Drama , Thriller , and interesting hilarious low budget movies then I strongly recommend you do what I did and buy this film today ! Movie Nutball'S NOTE : If you like low budget films that are so bad that you can laugh at them then I recommend Plan 9 from Outer Space ( 1959 ) , Werewolf ( 1996 ) , APE ( 1976 ) , Track of the Moon Beast ( 1976 ) , Demonicus ( 2001 ) Black Friday ( 2003 ) , and Fear Runs Silent ( 1999 ) !
Great movie and awesome acting by Mark Hamill !	Midnight Ride is a very good but unusual movie that stars Mark Hamill , Michael Dudikoff , and the great Robert Mitchum ! Dudikoff was good and I thought he looked a lot like Carey Elwes in the movie and Mitchum was good in his short part but Hamill was the one in the film that really shinned ! I was so surprised but the unpredictableness of his character and how he played this maniac ! Mark is a very good actor and I have always liked his acting in the original Star Wars trilogy especially The Empire Strikes Back ! The music by Carlo Maria Cordio is good and in My opinion most of it nearly sounded like Alan Silverstri's Predator and Back to the Future scores ! The movie is filmed very different and has action and many thrilling moments and you never know what is going to happen ! If you like Mark Hamill and to see him in another great role then I strongly recommended you watch Midnight Ride !
Andy and the Airwave Rangers !	Andy Colby's Incredible Adventure or Andy and the Airwave Rangers is a very unusual film . The acting by all of the actors is very good especially by Bo Svenson and Chuck Kovacic . The action and stuff is good . The movie is filmed very good but yet very unusual . The music is good . The film is very interesting and it is exciting . This is a good and different film . In My opinion I UI think that this film doesn't deserve the bad comments and the low rating . Why ? This is a very unique 80s film and I think of this film as a rare gem of the era and not a bad flick at all . If you like Bo Svenson and the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Fantasy , Sci-Fi , and interesting films from the 1980s then I recommend this one !
A good movie !	K-19 : The Widowmaker is a very intense film and it is hard to believe the the events in this film are true . The movie has great acting by to great actors Harrison Ford and Liam Neeson ! K-19 has good effects and music . If you want a a very intense film see K-19 : The Widowmaker ! Note : When I saw Harrison Ford and Liam Neeson together for the first time in this epic I couldn't help but think wow ! Han Solo and Qui-Gon-Jinn together ! Two major Star Wars characters that never got a chance to meet one another and its Indiana Jones meets Darkman ! Of course I was excited about this but really their parts in K-19 : The Widowmaker was played very well and I had no problems with their accents .
Great funny movie !	Black Sheep is a very funny film . Chris Farley , David Spade , and Gary Busey are hilarious ! Tim Matheson , Christine Ebersole , Bruce McGill , and Grant Heslov were good . The movie is outstandingly funny ! This is one of the funniest films ever and if you like the cast above and really funny comedies then check out Black Sheep !
Good Guys Wear Black !	This is pretty good movie . Chuck Norris was good . The fighting scenes were good especially the one when Norris kicks through the car window ! The war scenes near the beginning was awesome ! The music was really different . This was one of Chuck's first movies and its a good one !
Great Shemp short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! I think Punchy Cowpunchers is one of the best Three Stooges westerns with Shemp . This one has an all-star cast which includes Jock Mahoney , Christine McIntyre , Kenneth MacDonald , Dick Wessel , Vernon Dent , Emil Sitka , Heinie Conklin , and Joe Palma ! All of the actors perform well and each all has a bit of screen time . There some really funny things here and I love it when the Stooges bartenders . If you are a Three Stooges fan and western fan then I strongly recommend that you watch Punchy Cowpunchers today !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most unique Three Stooges shorts is The Sitter-Downers . In this short are James C . Morton , Bert Young , June Gittelson , Marcia Healy , with Betty Mack and Robert McKenzie . The acting by these actors are good especially by Morton . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
Very good film !	May contain spoilersThe One Hour Photo is a unique film . I thought Robin Williams was going to be nut but he really wasn't and I felt sorry for his character . The film has excellent scenes and has great acting by the other cast members including Connie Nielson ! I am glad Robin Williams played this role . I really liked the part when he gives the boy the action figure . If you like Williams check it out !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a great Three Stooges short and it has become one of My favorites ! Its hilarious ! Great one from beginning to end ! Bud Jamison as usual puts on a great performance ! The cake eating scene , the questioning scene with Theodore Lorch , and the end scenes are very funny . This is a very good Three Stooges short !
One of Arnold's best and one of the greatest action films of all time ! !	I just wanted to say that Commando in My opinion is one of Arnold's best and I like the cast . Vernon Wells is a very good actor and large man and played a very bad villain ! I really liked his character . Bill Duke is very good in the films as well . Rae Dawn Chong was good and this is probably her best film . Dan Hedaya's accent was good and sounded realistic . Chelsea Field , James Olson , David Patrick Kelly , Alyssa Milano , and Bill Paxton was good . Branscombe Richmond and Thomas Rosales Jr . was in this but had very short roles . The music is excellent by James Horner ! The violence is awesome ! This one of Arnold's most violent films and a film like this is one of the reasons why the 80s was great ! The film is really a classic and a great shoot em up film and I recommend it to all Arnold and action movie fans !
Very good movie !	The Swimfan is dandy ! It is a different teen movie ! The acting was pretty good by the cast including Dan Hedaya and a very good score by John Debney ! This film in My opinion doesn't deserve the bad comments it has received because it is entertaining ! If you want a different teen movie then look no further because the Swimfan is your movie !
Houseguest !	One of the most hilarious films of all time in My opinion is Houseguest ! It stars Sinbad , Phil Hartman , Jeffrey Jones , " Big " Tony Longo , Paul Ben-Victor , Stan Shaw , and Ron Glass ! Sinbad is very good in this film and he is funny . Phil Hartman is hilarious in this film . He shows that he really was a quality actor . I am amazed how big Sinbad and Jones are when they stand next to each other . Jones is very good in this film too . Tony Longo , who also is a big man also performed good . The action and chase scenes are really great and a lot of the scenes are really funny ! The dialog is really good in this movie . The music by John Debney is very good . I really like this film and I think its one of the best ! If you love Sinbad , Phil Hartman , and the other cast members and love action comedy films then I strongly recommend Houseguest today !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a good Three Stooges short . It funny and its cast includes Christine McIntyre , Symona Boniface , Gino Corrado , Fred Kelsey , Sam Flint , Chester Conklin , Theodore Lorch , Lynton Brent , Judy Malcolm , Vernon Dent , John Tyrrell , Heinie Conklin , and Bess Flowers . The Stooges performed very well in this short ! I recommend this one !
True Classic Horror !	This is one of the all time greats ! This is awesome for Universal monster fans ! Lon Chaney was great , Bela Lugosi was as scary as ever , and Glenn Strange was awesome as Frankenstein's Monster ! Even years after the Wolf Man and Dracula Chaney and Lugosi performed as them flawlessly ! Great music and chills ! Perfect for Halloween time ! I recommend Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein !
Very good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts . Its very funny . Vernon Dent is very good in this one . There are two other Three Stooges shorts called They Stooge to Conga and An Ache in Every Stake with Curly and they are arguably funnier ! Emil Sitka , Kitty McHugh , John Hamilton , Chick Collins , George J . Lewis , Gil Perkins are all in this short ! This is a very funny one and I recommend it !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! I think this Three Stooges Short with Shemp is really good . The Stooges put on very good performances as not only their characters but also their love interests ! Also Moe plays the girls ' father as well greatly . Many funny things happen here . I recommend this Three Stooges short !
Halloween 2 : Alternate ending and more ! READ BELOW ! ! !	May contain spoilers : Halloween II is a very good film sequel to Halloween . I think they should have just left it alone with Halloween 1 and 2 and just stopped from there but the other sequels are OK but the first two are the best which part 2 follows greatly after the first one and they are both classics ! Any horror and killer movie fan will enjoy Halloween 2 ! Special Notes : A long time ago we recorded an edited version of Halloween 2 on TV and it is so much different than the original version . Here are the differences in the two . This may be nothing special but I just thought I should tell Halloween hardcore fans ! MICHAEL'S FIRST KILL SCENE : My original version : When the woman next-door is talking to her friend on the phone about the older woman screaming she gets killed by Michael . My edited version : When the woman next-door is talking to her friend on the phone about the older woman screaming we never see Michael go into her house and thus never kills her . COKE SCENE : My edited version : When Jimmy asks Laurie if she wanted a Coke and she says yes and he brings it to her . My original version : When Jimmy asks Laurie if she wanted a Coke and she says yes but he never brings it to her . PHONE SCENE : My edited version : when Laurie picks up the phone she says mama , I wanna go home mama but the phone is dead but she talks anyway . My original version : when Laurie picks up the phone she just looks at it and she doesn't talk . ROOM OF BLOOD SCENE : My original version : Jimmy walks in to see the head nurse dead and he slips in a pool of her blood and hits his head hard . Later he walks in the car where Laurie is hiding but he suddenly dies . Read more about this in the alternate ending . My edited version : Jimmy never went in the room but the same exact scene was used when Michael Myers got blown up as it showed Jimmy getting caught by the explosion and hits his head . HEAD STAFF SCENE : My original version : the head nurse and the doctor are shown dead . My edited version : the head nurse and the doctor are never shown dead and is never told as you wonder what happened to them . ALTERNATE ENDING : My edited version : When Laurie gets into the ambulance a figure covered up with a sheet is on the other bed and the figure is jimmy and Laurie cries and say " we made it " several times and he smiles at her . My original version : Laurie gets into the ambulance that is taking her to a new hospital and the movie ends .
The 2004 MLB All-Star Game !	One of the most incredible Major League Baseball All-Star games was the 2004 edition . There were many surprising moments in this game and every second of it in My opinion was exciting ! So many great players were chosen in this game . Including Edgar Renteria , Albert Pujols , Barry Bonds , Scott Rolen , Sammy Sosa , Mike Piazza , Lance Berkman , Jeff Kent , Ichiro Suzuki , Ivan Rodriguez , Vladimir Guerrero , Manny Ramirez , Alex Rodriguez , Jason Giambi and so many other greats ! One of the many things I like about the All-Star game is that the viewer gets to see some of the greatest MLB players the sport has to offer that some states in America and even other countries don't get the chance to watch . It always seems that the American League has the upper hand but I for one will never count out the National League . I am a huge Baseball fan and just love everything about the sport ! When the first moment on Joe Buck and company broadcast the game you know its gonna be an epic event ! If you are a Baseball fan and are able to watch this game on TV or even on tape do so because its a classic ! I recommend it !
2001 POTA in-depth Review !	Many people think that the original 1967 Planet of the Apes is a classic and a master piece . Sure its one heck of a film especially back in the day when it was made . It had great costumes and makeup with great music by Jerry Goldsmith and a tremendous shocking end . This Planet of the Apes has awesome costumes and very realistic makeup and / or masks . The music is outstanding by Danny Elfman and the 2001 version has even a more shocking end . It seems to Me many people are against or hate this POTA . I really don't know why , it has such an interesting cast and they play their parts very well and sure it may not be director Tim Burton's darkest film but in My opinion it is one heck of movie ! The way I see the film it has a lot of emotion and all of the characters are so likable . I'll try to explain this as best as I can about Helena Bonham Carter is a very good looking woman and her character Ari is beautiful . I know she is under tons of makeup and looks very realistic as an ape but whenever she is on screen I can't help but think how neat she is with her voice and personality . Tim Roth's Thade is an awesome character and his character deserves a lot more credit . Roth's performance is truly menacing . Charlton Heston put on another solid performance as Thade's father . Another thing that gets into this movie so much is the music . Each scene is so great with the fantastic score ! Below is in My opinions an in-depth look at most of the characters that is in the 2001 Planet of the Apes ! - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mark Wahlberg as Captain Leo Davidson - Leo Davidson , after the incident of going after Pericles he is stranded on another world thanks to a magnetic storm . The planet he lands on has unbelievable talking apes . He is prisoner but after Ari frees him he gets to know her and her mentor , Krull and some other humans . He joins these two different factions of intelligent species and travels to the forbidden area Calima ! Leo is out for himself and to go back home as soon as he can ! Tim Roth as General Thade - The great General Thade , a mighty warrior who is afraid of nothing . His mean voice sends shivers down his soldiers back and he hates humans to death ! Thade and Ari were once in a relationship but now Ari has other things to do . He loves his father Zaius very much and he is very saddened about his father's illness . Helena Bonham Carter as Ari - She is a beautiful ape and very intelligent as well . She helps Leo escape . She is through with Thade and even though she has feelings for Leo even though he is human . She loves Krull as he is her mentor and in fact he is with Ari all the way with her , Leo , and other escapees from the city . Michael Clarke Duncan as Colonel Attar - The huge Attar is a force to reckon with ! He is General Thade's great warrior and best friend . He is a very religious and serious ape . Paul Giamatti as Limbo - The always funny Limbo loves to smell and look good . The human keeper if you will takes his job seriously but when he is forced to follow the escapees his life turns around . Estella Warren as Daena - One of the many prisoners in Ape City , Daena wants out just as much as everyone else but when she meets up with Leo and escapes with the group she has feelings for him but much like he does for Ari he doesn't think much of it . She loves her father Karubi very much and she is shocked and very sad about his death . Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as Krull - The massive Krull was one of the greatest warriors and a brave leader . He is the mentor of Ari and he is one of the apes who is in the escaped group . His favorite weapons are swords and handles them excellently ! David Warner as Senator Sandar - Ari's father , Senator Sandar let Thade have control . He is an ape that believes in manners such as washing hands . He tries not to get on Thade's case and he loves his daughter Ari . Kris Kristofferson as Karubi - The father of Daena , Karubi loves his daughter very much . He is a brave human man but his death in a fight against Attar didn't last long and he never knew what hit him from behind which it was General Thade . Thade's sword decapitated him . Erick Avari as Tival - The male house human is one of the escapees in the group with humans and apes . Luke Eberl as Birn - A stubborn teenager , Birn is a brave young man . Evan Dexter Parke as Gunnar - Another escaped male human . He too is brave . Glenn Shadix as Senator Nado - The great senator Nado . He loves his job and his mate ! Freda Foh Shen as Bon - The female house human is one of the escapees in the group with humans and apes . Chris Ellis as Lt . General Karl Vasich - Leader of the Oberon . When the magnetic storm caused malfuctions in the ship a video image played on the monitor . Little does he know that what he just saw was himself in the future ! Anne Ramsay as Lt . Col . Grace Alexander - She really cared for the modern day apes in the Oberon . Lisa Marie as Nova - Senator Nado's mate . She is very attractive for an ape and she is always worried about her looks . Linda Harrison as Woman in Cart - Could it be possible that this woman was on another planet at another time or in another lifetime ? Could it be that she is reincarnated ? Charlton Heston as Zaius , Thade's Father - Thade's father is very ill . Before he passes he wants to make sure to tell and show his son the shocking truth about humans . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I just like how everything is in the film . The ending may have been rushed and not make sense to others because it really had several endings but Burton could only pick one . In fact you can also tell as great as the music is if you listen closely some of the tracks are alternatives than the released music on the CD . Also a short time before the final release of the film the producers wanted the movie to be more epic than it was and they wanted it to be like or more like Gladiator and back to the music they wanted the composer Danny Elfman to change the music . I thought it was silly for the movie makers to do that and I am glad it came out the way it did even if the ending is sad and is a mistake or an error . I hope you have enjoyed this in-depth look at Tim Burton's Planet of the Apes . Like I said I love the 2001 version !
Good Three Stooges movie !	Snow White and the Three Stooges is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Moe Howard , Larry Fine , Curly Joe DeRita , Carol Heiss , Edson Stroll , Patricia Medina , Guy Rolfe , Michael David , Buddy Baer , Edgar Barrier , Peter Coe , Marie Blake , Mark Bailey , Bill Blackburn , and Mel Blanc ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The Stooges are once again great ! The comedy is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and hilarious film . If you like The Three Stooges , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedy , Classic , Fantasy , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Once of the best animated cartoons !	This Garfield animated short is a good one ! It is quite spooky once Garfield , Odie , and their master , John get to the great outdoors . The Panther is really neat . Lou Rawls ' song ( s ) is good . I think this is really a good cartoon and its for any age !
Great animated series !	I thought that the Superman cartoons were awesome and the characters were really good and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear especially for the time . Not to mention beautiful ! These characters are some of the most colorful and talented ever seen in My opinion . In fact , they are like real people and you sometime forget that your are watching a animated cartoon . The things that goes on in this series ' are in My opinion exciting which is what makes it great ! There are so many great ones to like . If you like Superman , DC Comics and classic cartoons then I strongly recommend that you head over Amazon . com today and purchase this classic show today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a fair Three Stooges short with Joe . With The Stooges in this one are Vanda Dupre , Philip Van Zandt , Marie Monteil , Christine McIntyre , Heinie Conklin , Joe Palma , Yvette Reynard , Harriette Tarler , and Al Thompson ! There are some funny scenes here ! Vanda Dupre has a very good performance ! There is a similar Three Stooges short with Shemp called Love At First Bite . Fifi Blows Her Top is a good short with Joe . I recommend it !
An unbelievable movie !	Crimson Rivers 2 : Angels of the Apocalypse is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Jean Reno , Benoît Magimel , Christopher Lee , Camille Natta , Johnny Hallyday , Gabrielle Lazure , Augustin Legrand , Serge Riaboukine , André Penvern , Francis Renaud , David Saracino , Michaël Abiteboul , Eriq Ebouaney , Jo Prestia , Cyril Raffaelli , and Lena Jam-Panoi ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Reno , Magimel , Lee , and Natta are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . Lee is once again a good bad guy ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The chase scenes are some of the greatest ever seen ever in My opinion ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Colin Towns . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Jean Reno , Benoît Magimel , Christopher Lee , Camille Natta , Johnny Hallyday , Gabrielle Lazure , Augustin Legrand , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Action , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The DVD is all subtitled inEnglish . None of the actors or actresses speak English but only French and possibly German . But please do not pass up this great film just because of that as it is an excellent film indeed !
Good one with Joe !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short with Joe ! What is bad about it ? Its hilarious in My opinion and Emil Sitka was good . The dialog and communication between the Stooges was really good especially the scenes with just Moe and Larry . Flying Saucer Daffy is a good one to watch and is one of most different Three Stooges shorts that was filmed .
The Burbs is a great movie !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Some minor spoilersThe Burbs is a classic movie ! It puts a allstar cast in one niegborhood ! This is yet another great movie I watch all the time . It has great music by Jerry Goldsmith . The Burbs is put together very well and I know its in the comedy section but this to ME is a serious movie but yes I can't help but laugh at some of the things in it . It has a good ending and the universal logo / intro is amazing to see ! If you like Tom Hanks , Carrie Fisher , Bruce Dern , Rick Ducommon or if you are just looking for a good movie then this is a great pick !
The Forgotten is an unbelievably surprising film indeed ! Moore is just fabulous here !	The Forgotten is a great and very surprising film that has a great cast including Julianne Moore , Gary Sinise , Dominic West , Alfre Woodard , Anthony Edwards , Scott Nicholson , P . J . Morrison , Christopher Kovaleski , Matthew Pleszewicz , Jessica Hecht , Linus Roache , Katie Cooper , Robert Wisdom , Tim Kang , and Kathryn Faughnan . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Moore and West provide really good performances in this picture ! I was surprised how well they did together ! Moore is really a fascinating actress . West reminded a lot of Mark Wahlberg and James Remar which they are two of My favorite actors . Sinise , Woodard , and Edwards are very good as well ! The mystery and thrills is really good here and a lot of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by James Horner ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This really an entertaining , exciting , and thrilling film . The film really surprised Me and even made Me jump and that's something movies usually don't do ! If you like Julianne Moore , Gary Sinise , Dominic West , Alfre Woodard , Anthony Edwards , Scott Nicholson , P . J . Morrison , the rest of the cast in the film , Mystery , Horror , Sci-Fi , Action , Drama , Thriller , and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenfe of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Good program !	Shark Week is a very good program . This program airs every year on the Discovery Channel for a week . I think that this program is a very interesting and informal one . It shows how the many species of Sharks are that are all over the beautiful world . I think it is amazing the way they are . The program also shows reenactments to show how powerful the sharks are and the damage they can cause , real events and shark bites . Though in My opinion to watch this you must see but I do not recommend it for the squeamish because the things shown are real ! If you are a shark lover then check out this amazing program on the Discovery Channel today !
Pacific Heights is an excellent movie !	Pacific Heights is different and a very serious movie ! It has Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine in very good performances ! In My opinion Griffith looked and spoke very similar like Meg Ryan ( in Armed and Dangerous ) and speaking of someone being similar like someone else I thought the same about Luca Bercovici as he looked and spoke very similar like D . B . Sweeney ! Laurie Metcalf and Mako good were good . Look for Tracey Walter , Beverly D'Angelo , Dan Hedaya , and Jerry Hardin ! But the star of this film is Michael Keaton ! His performance is arguably better than his Batman performance ! His character is so unique in My opinion ! His character is unpredictable and intelligent ! You can't help but wonder what is going on with him , what has he done in the past and what is his next move ? Who really is Carter Hayes ? Hans Zimmer's score is very cool and I think its one of his best ! This is a very good movie that's full of mystery and suspense and if you like the cast mentioned above and are a big fan of Michael Keaton then this is a must plus I strongly recommend it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Here an interesting fact ! In Batman Michael Keaton was Batman and Tracey Walter played Bob the Goon . In Conan the Destroyer Mako played Akiro ' The Wizard ' and Tracey Walter was Malak . In Pacific Heights they are all in it together !
Bill Murray is perfect as Gafield ! The live action movie is excellent !	Garfield , The live action feature film has finally arrived and its a great film ! It stars Bill Murray , Stephen Tobolowsky , Jennifer Love Hewitt , and Breckin Meyer ! I thought the creators did a fabulous job on this movie ! Garfield looks like a real cat in My opinion . I am so amazed how real he looks and his appearance is very close like he was in the comic strip and cartoons ! Murray performed very well as the voice of the fat cat ! In fact , I think it was a very wise choice because Lorenzo Music was the original voice of Garfield and plus he was the voice of Murray's Peter Venkman in the Real Ghostbusters animated show so in My opinion this worked greatly ! The dog that played Odie was very good . Breckin and Love Hewitt were good . Tobolowsky ( who was in Groundhog Day which is another Bill Murray film ) performed great in this movie . The film has great music also . The special effects look realistic and the editing , directing , and the story is all great ! If you love Garfield and want to see him in a live action movie then I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy this great movie today !
Good film !	The Hunted ( 1998 ) is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Harry Hamlin , Mädchen Amick , Hannes Jaenicke , Enuka Okuma , Robert Moloney , Peter LaCroix , Fulvio Cecere , Peter Bryant , Andy Thompson , Terence Kelly , Garvin Cross , Sean Campbell , and Carly McKillip ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Harry Hamlin and Mädchen Amick are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Harry Hamlin and Mädchen Amick , Hannes Jaenicke , Enuka Okuma , Robert Moloney , Peter LaCroix , Fulvio Cecere , Peter Bryant , Andy Thompson , Terence Kelly , Garvin Cross , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great film !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemy SpaceGodzilla , he too is awesome . He has some great powers and I like it when he roars . This space monsters is a colorful one . He is just full of colors . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is great ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . SpaceGodzilla today !
Good flick !	Blood Creature is one of those old drive in type movies which is actually its a pretty good film . Francis Lederer and Richard Derr is in the movie and so is Greta Thyssen who was in a few of the Three Stooges shorts in the Joe Besser era . She actually has very big part in the film . This movie , Blood Creature has some very good acting in it and the storms were cools . The creature itself was neat looking which really looked like a humanoid panther mummy ! If you have seen The 1996 version of The Island of Dr . Moreau you will notice some scenes that was in that movie are very similar in this movie ! Really Blood Creature is decent little old film that has many great moments and especially if you are a a Three Stooges fan its interesting to see Greta Thyssen in a role where she is scared and screaming ! For horror and Island of Dr . Moreau fans don't miss this one !
Kickboxer 2 : The Road Back delivers a knockout ! ! !	The sequel to Kickboxer is a good one ! KB2 has a good story . Sasha Mitchell is good and Peter Boyle , Dennis Chan , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , and John Diehl are also good but MY favorite is Michel Qissi ! He plays the unstoppable Tong Po again ! This time he is meaner , badder , and just much more of a maniac which he has become the ultimate fighter ! The film itself is a martial arts epic that brings just not the emotion but also action and feeling that for example when Tong Po made his first appearence David Sloan and his master was shocked and during the kickboxing match up you just felt like seeing it over and over due to its incredible impact and excitement when the action hits ! It also has some good music too ! Kickbboxer and martial arts fans rent this or watch it on tv soon but I recommend to you that if you see a good deal to buy it then do so because its worth it !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a hilarious Three Stooges short in My opinion . The Stooges are so funny . Nanette Bordeaux , Vivian Mason , and Suzanne Ridgeway all perform well and they look excellent ! Stanley Blystone and Vernon Dent were good . There is another Three Stooges short with Curly very similar like this one called Healthy , Wealthy , and Dumb . I strongly recommend both !
Great Star Trek film !	This Star Trek film is very good ! Great music by Jerry Goldsmith and spectacular effects ! James Cromwell is great and the story itself is a good one . Alice Krige is phenomenal as the Borg Queen and Marina Sirtis is as beautiful as ever . Jonathan Frakes did a good job directing . I recommend Star Trek : First Contact to all Star Trek fans !
Great Three Stooges Shemp short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most unique Three Stooges shorts is A Snitch in Time . In this short are Jean Willes , John L . Cason , Henry Kulky , John Merton . The acting by these actors are good . Willes looks great ! There are many hilarious scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts . I strongly recommend this one !
Great movie !	Along Came A Spider is great movie . It has become one of My favorites . Morgan Freeman was really neat and Monica Potter put on a good performance and looked good . Michael Wincott was awesome with his voice changing and psycho facial expressions ! Penelope Ann Miller looked great and Michael Moriarty was good . It would be could good to have a couple more movies about Alex Cross . He is a good character and Kiss the Girls and Along Came A Spider isn't enough in My opinion . I love the music by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith ! He created an excellent theme ! If you like Morgan Freeman and saw Kiss the Girls and liked it then rent or even buy ( like I did ) Along Came A Spider because its awesome !
Great Christmas classic !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Goldfinger is one of My favorite Bond films !	This is arguably the best Bond film ever ! Goldfinger and Oddjob are great villains ! Good acting and the theme song is awesome ! Lots of action . Pussy Galore is a great bond girl because she can do it all ! This Bond is one of My favorites !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Clara Kimball Young , Douglas Gerrard , Lynton Brent , Bobby Burns , Phyllis Crane , Lew Davis , Charles Dorety , Idalyn Dupre , Harrison Greene , Althea Henley , Bud Jamison , Isabel La Mal , Eddie Laughton , Stella LeSaint , Helen Martinez , and James C . Morton ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . There are two others similar like this one called Pest Man Wins and Termites of 1938 ! I strongly recommend all three of these Three Stooges shorts !
The Arrival is a great alien film !	The Arrival is a excellent alien film ! Charlie Sheen was very good and I really liked his look . Ron Silver was good . The Arrival boasts great views of the sky , cool action , good acting , great looking aliens , and a good ending . If you like Sheen and films about aliens then see the Arrival today !
One of the best Shemp short and Stooges shorts PERIOD !	This is one of the best ones with Shemp and its one of My favorites Stooges shorts ! The story is good and the actors Stanley Blystone , Gene Roth , and Emil Sitka were really good and funny ! The fight scene with Shemp punching Blystone and the other familiar face is excellent and its similar to the one in Calling All Curs and Crash goes the Hash ! This is a great one and its funny every time you watch it !
One of the greatest Three Stooges shorts !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very funny Three Stooges short . The doctor scenes are very funny . Symona Boniface acted very good . Mary Ainslee and John Tyrrell were very good ! All of the Samoa scenes were extremely funny especially the guard who guarded the plant . The King , The King's Sister , and Kingfisher are three hilarious characters in My opinion ! This is a great one and strongly recommend it !
Roy Orbison and Friends : Black & White Night !	This is a great concert with an all star cast ! The late great singer Roy Orbison doesn't disappoint in this classic ! In My opinion Roy Orbison is one of the greatest singers of all time ! If you love his songs then this is a must own !
John Carpenter's The Thing !	This is one of John Carpenter's best movie if not his best ! In My opinion it is one of the best films to date ! I don't want to spoil it for you if you haven't seen it yet but here I will say the following ! Kurt Russell was very good ! The other cast members including Wilford Brimley , Richard A . Dysart , Keith David , Donald Moffat , Charles Hallahan , and Richard Masur performed well ! The movie has many thrilling moments and it does a great job at keeping you in suspense ! I just love the unpredictableness ! The film is very interesting and is quite scary at times ! It has some gore and great effects ! In My opinion in the very beginning before the credits where you see the space ship coming toward Earth is one of the greatest special effects of all time and then you see the fantastic Thing logo with such chilling music which is one of the greatest title sequences ever ! Morricone's score is very good and it has that great John Carpenter sound ! Carpenter directed this greatly and I love how he remade the scenes of the ship in the ice and the hole in the ice block that belonged to the missing corpse ! The artwork on the movie box is excellent ! If you love John Carpenter , Kurt Russell , the other cast members mentioned above , horror , action , sci-fi , thrilling , suspense , and alien movies then this is the perfect movie to watch ! Strongly recommended ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I also recommend these John Carpenter films : Big Trouble in Little China , Halloween , The Fog , Starman , Christine , Village of the Damned , and They Live ! If you like alien movies I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , Close Encounters of the Third Kind , E . T . the Extra - Terrestrial , Time Walker , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , The Puppet Masters , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Signs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Another great Universal Monsters movie ! ! !	The Creature from the Black Lagoon is a classic film and I was amazed all of the swimming scenes in this film because of the time it was made . The Creature looks excellent as is everything else like the swamps , the boats , and the jungles . Good acting aswell . There are two sequels that followed this film and they are good but this is MY favorite of the three .
Arlington Road !	Arlington Road is one of the most darkest and thrilling action movies ever in My opinion ! The film stars Jeff Bridges , Tim Robbins , Joan Cusack , Hope Davis , Robert Gossett , Mason Gamble , and Spencer Treat Clark ! Bridges has one of his best performances and its one of the best I have seen by any actor ! Robbins also has a great performance . As I mentioned the film is a very dark film meaning that it is one hundred-ten percent serious and the nature of the film will terrify the viewer . The music by Angelo Badalamenti and tomandandy is very good . The direction by Mark Pellington is excellent ! The ending is unbelievable ! If you like the cast mentioned and want to see Jeff Bridges in a great performance and want to see a very dark action thriller then I strongly recommend this film , Arlington Road !
Boiling Point !	This film Boiling Point is a very good and interesting film ! In this film are Wesley Snipes , Dennis Hopper , Dan Hedaya , James Tolkan , Lolita Davidovich , Viggo Mortensen , and Seymour Cassel ! The actors play their characters very good . Snipes and Hedaya make two great cop partners and in My opinion Hedaya was the highlight character in this film . Hopper and Mortensen are good as the villains . The action is very good though rough and the dialog scenes in the movie are smart and clever . The music is good and the classic song titled " Dream " that is played often was a wise choice . If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see a great thrilling film that is entertaining then I strongly recommend this film !
Murderers , Mobsters & Madmen Vol . 1 ! A great Documentary that doesn't disappoint !	This is an excellent video of real life icons of the sane and insane ! I don't want to spoil it if you watch this some time but here is a brief word what this special feature shows to the viewer ! It has three sections . The life stories of such people in Hollywood as Ted Healy of the Three Stooges , Elizabeth Short , Sal Mineo . Gruesome insane killer section of Ed Gein and John Wayne Gacy . And finally mass murdering killers such as Texas Tower Assassin Charles Whitman and Henry Lee Lucas . The narrator tells most about the people but he does leave some things out but he gives more than enough information ! I don't want to mentioned it all because there is much , much more than this ! In the video it shows real footage of the people and pictures that are very bloody that may disturb the viewer . The narrator Harold Wells is a fine choice and the music was very good especially during when the Gacy photos were shown . If you are a fan that likes this type of Crime / Documentary thing then this is a must own !
One of the best movies ever !	Kindergarten Cop is one of My favorite movies and I think it's one of Arnold's best ever ! There are so many good and cool things about the movie ! It has a tremendous cast and is directed by Ivan Reitman who directed two of the greatest movies ever made which is Ghostbusters 1 & 2 and also another very good film with Arnold called Twins ! The music is by Randy Edelman which this score is one of his best ! Now about the cast ! They are all great in the film which Arnold is great but one of my other favorite actors Richard Tyson really steals the show here ! His character is a mean one and out of all of the villains in Arnold's movies I think Tyson's character is the most menacing . The other cast was good and they include Penelope Ann Miller , Pamela Reed , Linda Hunt , Carroll Baker , Richard Portnow , Chi Moui Lo , Leo Lee , & Thomas Rosales Jr . and even Angela Bassett ! Anyway the movie is funny especially the kids but its a serious and very exciting movie ! I just adore the beginning of it and when Arnold parks his car and shoots up every thing ! In My opinion that's one of the greatest scenes ever ! This movie is special and is just not one of Arnold's best but one of the best movies around ! I strongly recommend everyone to watch it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Is this a strange coincidence ? Penelope Ann Miller , Linda Hunt , and Chi Moui Lo were not only in this movie together but they were also together in the awesome horror movie The Relic ! Its also strange that there was also school scenes in the monster flick very reminiscent of the ones seen in Kindergarten Cop ! I just thought I would point that out ! By the way , if you love horror , check out the Relic ! Its one of the best creature movies and I strongly recommend it ! I also strongly recommend these Arnold movies if you love the muscular actor turned Governor ! Conan the Barbarian , Conan the Destroyer , Red Sonja , Commando , Raw Deal , Predator , The Running Man , Red Heat , Twins , Total Recall , Last Action Hero , True Lies , Junior , Eraser , Jingle All The Way , Batman & Robin , End of Days , The Sixth Day , Collateral Damage , The Terminator , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day , & Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines !
Great movie !	I thought S . W . A . T . was a very cool movie ! It has an interesting cast and tons of action ! Samuel L . Jackson , Colin Farrell , Michelle Rodriguez , and LL Cool J were all good ! Also Larry Poindexter , Olivier Martinez , and Josh Charles were good ! The music is very good by composer Elliot Goldenthal ! I think this is a feel good movie where you just watch it and like everything about it ! Jackson was good as always ! He was really perfect for his role ! Colin Farrell was also very good and in fact this is arguably his best role next to his role as Bullseye in Daredevil ! Michelle Rodriguez was very good I think she really had the highlight role in the film ! James Todd Smith aka LL Cool J also had a cool role ! I liked the the big shoot out with the masked baddies ! It was staged really well ! There is a lot that happens in this movie ! If you like the actors above and love to see movies with lots of shootings and such then watch S . W . A . T . ! Strongly Recommended !
Raising the Mammoth !	This is a very good program that aired on the Discovery Channel on and I think that this program was very a interesting and informal one and it is narrated very good by Jeff Bridges . It shows a huge Wooly-Mammoth being dug from the ice . The suspense is excellent ! Larry Agenbroad , Bernard Buigues , Dick Mol , and N . K . Vereshchagin were present on this program . They were talking about cloning a Wooly-Mammoth and what it would take to have a real living one in the future . Quite remarkable . If you can watch this on TV and like the subject and like to see the Wooly-mammoth being focused on in the entire two hour program then check out this amazing feature today or buy it on DVD ! Strongly Recommended !
Ivan Reitman made good Arnold films ! I think He should make more !	Great Arnold movie and its very funny ! Danny Devito was great ! Marshall Bell played a fine villain . David Caruso was really different . Look for Sven-Ole Thorsen , David Efron , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , Maury Chaykin , and Gus Rethwisch ! It was really neat to know that Belle and Rosemary Dunsmore was in Total Recall with Arnold and well , Thorsen has been in a ton of Arnold films ! Anyway it has really a good story and acting and I don't want to say to much but this is really a good comedy and I recommend it to all Arnold fans !
It was already a excellent film but the special edition makes it a whole lot better !	Aliens , the great sequel to Alien is a excellent film ! Sigourney Weaver is back with an all-star cast and tons of action and great music by James Horner . The Special edition of Aliens contains 17 minutes of footage not seen in the original released version . I was surprised of the scenes that was deleted . I recommend rent the special edition !
Nighthawks ! A classic film !	A great movie is Nighthawks starring Sylvester Stallone ! But he's not the only star in this film because Billy Dee Williams , Rutger Hauer , and Lindsay Wagner joins him in this thrilling action film ! Also look for Persis Khambatta , Nigel Davenport , and Thomas Rosales Jr . ! This is a very good movie ! Stallone performs excellently here ! Its one of the best performances that I have seen him do ! Williams was good and Hauer also was very good ! The action is awesome in this movie ! I just love how the movie is made . The music by Keith Emerson was very good and great direction by Bruce Malmuth as well ! In My opinion this movie is a classic ! If you like these actors I have mentioned and love action films then buy this movie today ! I strongly recommend it !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Billy Bletcher , Nick Copeland , Lew Davis , Charles Dorety , William Irving , and Jack ' Tiny ' Lipson ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . I strongly recommend this Three Stooges short !
Good Movie !	This is a very good film ! It has an all star cast which includes Donald Sutherland , Dustin Hoffman , Rene Russo , Morgan Freeman , Dale Dye , J . T . Walsh , Cuba Gooding Jr . Patrick Dempsey , and Kevin Spacey ! The film has very good acting from all of the great and talented actors and most of the others are good as well ! Hoffman was excellent and in fact this arguably could be his best performance ! Sutherland , Freeman , Russo , and Spacey was as good as always ! The performance by Gooding Jr . was very good ! J . T . Walsh's brief role was played excellently ! I think he put everything he could into it ! It was really a fantastic perforce ! The helicopter chase seen was awesome ! It was incredible how it was filmed and its very intense ! The music by James Newton Howard is very good ! Good directing by Wolfgang Petersen ! I noticed that Freeman and Spacey has been in two films together that I know of which is this one and Se7en ! The characters are totally different in Seven than in this one . If you love the actors mentioned above and want see an action thriller about a horrible virus then watch Outbreak ! Strongly recommended !
Excellent film ! ! !	This is an excellent film ! Tom Hanks and Paul Newman performed great ! I was really surprised when Newman was beating on his son ! That was a great scene and the shooting scenes were staged good . I was very surprised about the end . Rent this film today as it is one of Tom Hanks ' best !
Holes !	Holes ! It a very good spirited film directed by Andrew Davis ! The movie stars Sigourney Weaver , Jon Voight , and Tim Blake Nelson . Also starring Ray Baker , Henry Winkler , Nathan Davis , Eartha Kitt , Shia LaBeouf , Khleo Thomas , Robin Wright Penn , Patricia Arquette , Conrad E . Palmisano , Louis Sachar , Shelley Malil , Rick Fox , Nicole Pulliam , Alex Daniels , Michael Cavanaugh , Eric Pierpoint , and Roma Maffia ! The movie is made rather well . Voight , Weaver , and Kitt are excellent in the movie and they look so different . The younger actors all act fine . The music by Joel McNeely is good . I think that this is a very different film and especially for director Andrew Davis . If you like the actors I mentioned above and want to see a good clean fun film then watch Holes today ! I recommend it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : One of My favorite directors is Andrew Davis . I just love the way he is and the way he make movies . There are some other great movies that I recommend to movie fans that is directed by him . Code of Silence ( Very good film starring Chuck Norris ! ) , Above the Law ( A great Steven Seagal film ! ) , The Package ( Stars Tommy Lee Jones and Gene Hackman , a cool and neat flick ! ) , Under Siege ( Another great film that stars Steven Seagal and Tommy Lee Jones along with Gary Busey ! ) , The Fugitive ( Stars Harrison Ford and Tommy Lee Jones , excellent movie from the start to the finish ! ) , Chain Reaction ( In My opinion this is one of the best films and it has a great cast including Morgan Freeman , Rachel Weisz , Keanu Reeves , and Fred Ward ! ) , A Perfect Murder ( An excellent film starring Michael Douglas ! ) , and finally Collateral Damage ( A great action packed Arnold Schwarzenegger movie ! ) .
Open Water !	Open Water is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Blanchard Ryan , Daniel Travis , Saul Stein , Estelle Lau , Michael E . Williamson , Cristina Zenarro , John Charles , and Steve Lemme . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Ryan and Travis really good in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Graeme Revell . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Blanchard Ryan , Daniel Travis , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , Horror , True Stories , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great 80s horror movie !	I am not sure if there is two versions of the film but I want to say that the original uncut version is good . Though I could do with out the nudity but for horror fans this is a great one to see with a awesome female monster ! The truth is I actually felt sorry for her at the end . Great 80s horror film that is scary and should satisfy most horror fans !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Shemp ! All Appearing in this short are Jock Mahoney , Emil Sitka , Vernon Dent , Christine McIntyre , Philip Van Zandt , Tiny Brauer , Andre Pola , Connie Cezan , Evelyn Lovequist , Joe Palma , and Gene Roth ! This one is so hilarious ! Shemp has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . There is a similar one like this called Fuelin ' Around and I strongly recommend both of these Three Stooges shorts !
Good one with Shemp !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Shemp is none other than Husbands Beware ! All appearing in this short are the beautiful Christine McIntyre , Dee Green , Doris Houck , Alyn Lockwood , Johnny Kascier , Nancy Saunders , Lu Leonard , Maxine Gates , and Emil Sitka . Green and McIntyre provide great performances here ! There are so many funny parts here . This is a very hilarious short . There is another similar Three Stooges short like this one called Brideless Groom and I recommend both !
Very good movie !	The Italian Job is an excellent film that boasts a excellent cast which includes Mark Wahlberg , Charlize Theron , Donald Sutherland , Jason Statham , Seth Green , Mos Def , Edward Norton , Franky G , and Gawtti ! The acting by all of these actors is pretty good . I liked how Wahlberg and Theron's relationship was . Theron was excellent in this film and she is becoming one of My favorite actresses ! It was amazing to see Wahlberg , Stratham , and Franky G all together because they are all very muscular individuals . Gawtti had a really good performance and he reminded Me of the legendary wrestler Yokozuna . The action is really good and the car chases are excellent . The film is very exciting and the music by John Powell is great . F . Gary Gray has directed another good film . This is a great and thrilling film . If you like Mark Wahlberg , Charlize Theron , Donald Sutherland , Jason Statham and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film !
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Classic Comedy !	Mrs . Doubtfire is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Robin Williams , Sally Field , Pierce Brosnan , Harvey Fierstein , Polly Holliday , Lisa Jakub , Matthew Lawrence , Mara Wilson , Robert Prosky , Rick Overton , Martin Mull , Ralph Peduto , Scott Beach , Molly McClure , Andrew L . Prosky , and Dr . Toad ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Robins is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The comedy is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and hilarious film . If you like Robin Williams , Sally Field , Pierce Brosnan , Harvey Fierstein , Polly Holliday , Lisa Jakub , Matthew Lawrence , Mara Wilson , Robert Prosky , Rick Overton , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedies , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Star Trek : Nemesis ! An awesome film in the Star Trek saga !	This Star Trek film , Star Trek : Nemesis is very good ! Good acting by everyone especially by Patrick Stewart , Tom Hardy , and Ron Perlman ! The special effects are wonderful ! Jerry Goldsmith's score is tremendous ! I don't know what the big deal is here why all of the bad comments and reviews ? I thinks its a great film and is as great as the prequels ! I love Star Trek and I always have and if you do I strongly recommend you to watch it !
Good Stooges short ! Gene Roth is excellent in this one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts ! Gene Roth is excellent in it ! The scenes with the Stooges especially with Shemp are really funny ! The fish scene is quite funny especially how Moe fooled the woman . There is another Three Stooges short with alternate scenes called Dunked in the Deep . This is really an underrated Stooges short !
The 2003 MLB All-Star Game !	One of the most remarkable Major League Baseball All-Star games was the 2003 edition . There were many surprising moments in this game and every second of it in My opinion was exciting ! So many great players were chosen in this game . Including Jim Edmonds , Woody Willaims , Barry Bonds , Eric Gagne , Richie Sexson , Alex Rodriguez , Manny Ramirez , Hideki Matsui , Ichiro Suzuki , Edgar Martinez and so many other greats ! One of the many things I like about the All-Star game is that the viewer gets to see some of the greatest MLB players the sport has to offer that some states in America and even other countries don't get the chance to watch . It always seems that the American League has the upper hand but I for one will never count out the National League . I am a huge Baseball fan and just love everything about the sport ! When the first moment on Joe Buck and company broadcast the game you know its gonna be an epic event ! If you are a Baseball fan and are able to watch this game on TV or even on tape do so because its a classic ! I recommend it !
Great one !	This is on of the spookiest and funniest Three Stooges shorts ! It begins rather well with thunders storms and the howling wind ! When the Stooges discover that the armor talks and they have a conversation about who he is its gets really good after that ! I think I was funny when the Stooges opened that chest and the skeleton came out and he says that he's Red and Shemp says Red Skeleton ! I thought that was very funny ! There is a lot of other type of spooky stuff in this one and also another funny part in it is when Larry talks to the suit of armor he say to " well maybe he doesn't talk English " and then he say things in other languages and the suit of armor replies to it and Larry's hat spins around and he is very frightened ! I thought it was funny ! Like some other spooky type Three Stooges shorts this is a great Three Stooges short to watch over again around Halloween time !
This is a REAL horror movie ! ! ! ! !	Minor SpoilersWe just rented Jeepers Creepers the day it came out on video and we just couldn't wait to see it . The movies ' begining is really scary and it I think it was one heck of a beginning . Its was very scary . I was really impressed by the terror and the shock that this movie gives you ! It'll keep you going on for a long while . The creature / monster / killer what ever he was was sure awesome . I like how he drove that old truck and put on his long black coat and hat and he sure knows how to use an axe aswell . The ending will shock you and I hope there will be a sequel to Jeepers Creepers real soon because I can't wait to see him back in action . By the way , be on the look out for a Creeper action figure by McFarlane Toys in a future Movie Maniacs series .
Great film !	101 Dalmations is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Glenn Close , Jeff Daniels , Joely Richardson , Joan Plowright , Hugh Laurie , Mark Williams , John Shrapnel , Tim McInnerny , Hugh Fraser , Zohren Weiss , Mark Haddigan , Michael Percival , and Neville Phillips . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Close is really excellent in this film . I thought that she performed good . The comedy is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Michael Kamen . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Glenn Close , Jeff Daniels , Joely Richardson , Joan Plowright , Hugh Laurie , Mark Williams , John Shrapnel , the rest of the cast in the film , Family , Comedy , Adventure , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
K-Pax !	K-Pax is a good Sci-Fi film that has a good cast including Kevin Spacey , Jeff Bridges , Mary McCormack , Alfre Woodard , David Patrick Kelly , Saul Williams , Peter Gerety , Celia Weston , and Ajay Naidu . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Kevin Spacey is really excellent in this film . I thought that his performance was really amazing ! Jeff Bridges also has a very good performance . All of the other actors are good as well . The suspense is good . The special effects are great . The movie is filmed great . The music is good by Edward Shearmur . The film is very interesting and exciting and the movie really keeps you entertained ! If you like Kevin Spacey , Jeff Bridges , Mary McCormack , Alfre Woodard , and the rest of the cast in the film , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend that you see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
One of best Three Stooges shorts !	This is one of Curly's last short subjects but it is very good . I feel its a good one to watch around Halloween time as well ! Christine McIntyre was very good and Vernon Dent was too ! The thing with the dummy was great ! This is a good one to check out !
Stephen King's IT !	Stephen King's IT is a very spooky horror film . The cast was good but Tim Curry's performance as Pennywise The Clown was excellent ! IT has good spooky and yet emotional moments and has good music . Stephen King's fans should love IT !
Stephen King's Night Flier !	This is arguably one of Stephen King's best stories that is made into a movie ! Night Flier is an excellent movie ! Miguel Ferrer did an excellent job of acting ! I just love the vampire ! His costume is so neat and his great and horrific looks is so realistic ! His voice is incredible ! He moves so fluidly ! His character in My opinion is very real and believeable ! I don't know what else I can say about him ! There is quite a bit of gore and blood ! The music is very good as well ! The Night Flier is a very decent film and in My opinion is a very unrecognized film that deserves more attention than it has received ! If you love Stephen King , Miguel Ferrer , Dracula , Vampires , Universal Monsters , and Horror movies then Night Flier is the ultimate horror film to watch !
Great movie series !	The Crocodile Dundee series is a great one that's funny and exciting at the same time ! Paul Hogan and Linda Kozlowski are very good . I just like the scenes in the out back and and Hogan is hilarious in the city ! This series is very good and very entertaining . Check it out soon !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Fiddlers Three . In this short are Vernon Dent , Virginia Hunter , Philip Van Zandt , Joe Palma , Cy Schindell , and Al Thompson . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent and Van Zandt . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one !
Another excellent Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very funny and arguably a classic Three Stooges short with Shemp ! Appearing in this short are Christine McIntyre , Kathleen O'Malley , Nanette Bordeaux , Emil Sitka , Pat Moran , Wally Rose , and Joe Palma . McIntyre and Bordeaux are excellent in this on . I recommend this Three Stooges short !
He-Man and She-Ra is at it again !	This is very good little animated movie of My favorite animated heroes ! Though there isn't a ton of Skeletor and Hordak's henchmen but the two big time villains show their stuff quite well ! Its really a different He-Man and She-Ra story but if you like them then is a good one to watch !
Obey the Lost Skeleton of Cadavra !	The Lost Skeleton of Cadavra DVD has a nice bonus under the Special Features menu . A short Documentary called Obey the Lost Skeleton ! Fay Masterson , Andrew Parks , Susan McConnell , Brian Howe , Jennifer Blaire , Larry Blamire , Dan Conroy , Robert Deveau , Darren Reed , and more make appearances in this small ten minute plus feature . The talk about that how bad that they had to act , the terrible skeleton puppet-erring , and more ! the feature is funny believe it or not . Also on the disc is a special skeleton cartoon , and the Bloopers Reel ! That was very funny as well ! So if you like the cast in the film i have mentioned above , Mystery , Horror , Sci-Fi , Comedy , Action , Drama , Thriller , and interesting hilarious low budget movies then I strongly recommend you do what I did and buy this film today ! Movie Nutball'S NOTE : If you like low budget films that are so bad that you can laugh at them then I recommend Plan 9 from Outer Space ( 1959 ) , Werewolf ( 1996 ) , APE ( 1976 ) , Track of the Moon Beast ( 1976 ) , Demonicus ( 2001 ) Black Friday ( 2003 ) , and Fear Runs Silent ( 1999 ) !
Gothika is a good film !	Gothika is a good and mystery film that has a good cast including Halle Berry , Robert Downey Jr . , Charles S . Dutton , John Carroll Lynch , Bernard Hill , Penélope Cruz , Dorian Harewood , Bronwen Mantel , Kathleen Mackey , Matthew G . Taylor , Michel Perron , Andrea Sheldon , and Anana Rydvald , The acting by all of these actors is very good , The mystery and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by John Ottman ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very thrilling film . If you like Halle Berry , Robert Downey Jr . , Charles S . Dutton , John Carroll Lynch , Bernard Hill , Penélope Cruz , Dorian Harewood , Bronwen Mantel , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Mystery , Action , Thrillers , and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
The Santa Clause 2 !	The Santa Clause films are a great and wonderful series of films that are excellent to watch around the holidays ! The Santa Clause 2 stars Tim Allen , Wendy Crewson , Judge Reinhold , Eric Lloyd , Peter Boyle , Elizabeth Mitchell , Art LaFleur , Michael Dorn , and David Krumholtz . Tim Allen is excellent in this film . He's hilarious and a very realistic character . Peter Boyle is good in this film in a brief role . Crewson and Reinhold are good in this film together . The comedy scenes are very funny and the Santa Clause special effects are very good . The music is good as well . Really every thing is fine in this film ! If you are looking for a great Christmas film and if you like the cast mentioned above that I strongly recommend The Santa Clause 2 !
Excellent film ! Zane , Williams , Remar and Tagawa ( four of My all-time favorites ! ) all have great performances ! Bring on the sequel !	The Phantom is a very good film that has an incredible cast including Billy Zane , Kristy Swanson , Treat Williams , Catherine Zeta-Jones , James Remar , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , Bill Smitrovich , Casey Siemaszko , John Capodice , David Proval , Joseph Ragno , Samantha Eggar , Jon Tenney , Patrick McGoohan , Robert Coleby , Bernard Kates , Al Ruscio , and Leon Russom ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Zane is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . Williams , Remar , Tagawa , and Zeta Jones all have terrific villain roles ! The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by David Newman . Great directing by Simon Wincer ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Billy Zane , Kristy Swanson , Treat Williams , Catherine Zeta-Jones , James Remar , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , Bill Smitrovich , Casey Siemaszko , John Capodice , Samantha Eggar , Patrick McGoohan , Robert Coleby , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Comedy , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I noticed this is the third time that Billy Zane and Casey Siemaszko has been in the same movie together . The other two films are Back to the Future and Back to the Future Part II ! Zane was Match and Casey was 3-D ! They were pals in the BTTF films and now their enemies in the Phantom ! Weird !
The sequel to Jurassic Park !	The sequel to Jurassic Park is very good . The Dinosaurs still looked incredible ! Jeff Goldblum , Julianne Moore , Richard Attenborough , Pete Postlethwaite , Thomas Rosales Jr . and Vince Vaughn played their parts good ! The first time I saw this and when the end came I had tears in My eyes . The T-Rex in the city part had Me worried about how it was going to end but I was satisfied . If you like Dinosaurs then check out The Lost World : The Jurassic Park !
Great movie ! Its a REAL ghost and horror movie in my opinion .	13 Ghosts is a classic ! The whole movie is just great ! Good music , acting and everything ! Its excellent and it feels good to watch it too ! There is just something about this film that makes it so good ! Its really a good film to watch around Halloween !
Shakedown !	This film titled Shakedown is a good one ! Ron Perlman stars along with Wolf Larson , Erika Eleniak , and Fred Dryer . Perlman is is great in this film . His performance as the bad guy in this film is really good and he looks very neat ! I thought the training camp scenes with him were great ! All of the other actors are good in this film as well . The action is really good . Fans of shoot em up films will like the action here ! The earthquake scenes are also very good and I was in awe when i saw some of the scenes ! One thing I noticed in the film is strange . Its when Perlman is talking to Brandon Karrer's character . I noticed that when the musical score was playing that part there was the very same piece of music that is in Hollow Man . The 10th track is titled Find Him on the Hollow Man Score CD . If you own the CD and / or are familiar with the film then you will know what I mean . Watch Shakedown and compare it ! Anyway Shakedown is a good film and is very exciting . If you like Ron Perlman and the other actors I mentioned above and want to see a good disaster action film then I strongly recommend this film !
Batman the Movie is a Classic !	Batman the Movie is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Adam West , Burt Ward , Lee Meriwether , Cesar Romero , Burgess Meredith , Frank Gorshin , Alan Napier , Neil Hamilton , Stafford Repp , and Madge Blake . The acting by all of these actors is very good . West and Ward were great as the cape crusaders . Meriwether is great , Romero has a terrific performance , Meredith was also very good and Gorshin is unbelievable ! The thrills is really good and hilarious . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Nelson Riddle . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Adam West , Burt Ward , Lee Meriwether , Cesar Romero , Burgess Meredith , Frank Gorshin , Alan Napier , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Comedy , Family , Comics , and interesting great films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good Three Stooges short ! A classic !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Dudley Dickerson , Al Hill , Fred Kelsey , Al Thompson , and John Tyrrell are in this Three Stooges classic ! I think this is arguably one of the best Three Stooges shorts . The beginning is hilarious when The Stooges are cleaning up the joint and the shoot out scenes the cops and robbers was good as well . I strongly recommend A Gem of a Jam !
Good documentary !	This special program is located on the features menu on the second disc DVD of the excellent horror series Tales from the Crypt : Season 1 : The Complete Season ! Featuring in interviews in this telling of the history of horror comics ! the guests are none other than John Carpenter , Russ Cochran , Digby Diehl , Mark Evanier , Al Feldstein , William M . Gaines , Grant Geissman , George A . Romero , Joel Silver , R . L . Stine , Jack Wohl , Bernie Wrightson , and Wendy Gaines-Bucci ! There are some amazing parts of this feature . Many things are revealed that which I thought was amazing to know ! Such as the history of EC Comics and all of the things that went around in the 40's and 50's eras . They also talk about many other incredible things and facts about this series and how the legendary Crypt Keeper came to be ! Directer John Carpenter and Producer Joel Silver has some screen time on this feature so if you are one of their's fans then this'll be good for you to check out ! I thought that this was a great feature I recommend this and I strongly the series film Tales from the Crypt !
Its a good spooky movie !	I have seen this movie many times and its a good one ! It has good acting , great chills , thrills and it is hard to believe that happened . I recommend all ghost and horror fans to rent this ! I enjoyed it and I think you will to !
If you're not shopping at S-Mart , then you're shopping at the wrong place !	Minor SpoilersArmy Of Darkness is one of MY favorite movies . Its funny , it has lots action , great music , Dark stuff , and Bruce Campbell ! MY favorite scenes is where Ash and his car drop from the sky and there is silence for a couple of seconds and then BOOM ! They crash ! Another is where Ash goes to find the book of the dead , the Necronomicon in the creepy woods and the strange thing comes and is only you see is the camra going forward 100 mph left and right going through trees and follows Ash to the huge wind mill busting and pounding and hammerinmg the door down ! Another is where after the wind mill incident is over Ash goes to the cemetary and find the Necronomicon ! These scenes are so good . The end where the army of the dead comes is really something . Army Of Darkness is just a good movie . I have watched this movies tons of times and I plan on watching even more . By the way , make sure you pick the McFarlane Movie Maniacs figures of Ash and Evil Ash . Also Army of Darkness is one of the best movies in MY opinion you can watch during the Halloween season . A couple other that are great during Halloween is Werewolf ( 1996 , Joe Estevez ) , The Mummy , The Mummy Returns , and ofcourse Halloween .
Another great Tommy Lee Jones movie with message !	What a great movie The Hunted is ! Tommy Lee Jones and Benicio Del Toro were excellent especially in their scenes together ! Connie Nielson was good . I was so amazed by the fighting that they did ! There is a lot of blood and slashing ! People think it is like the Fugitive and First Blood but I really don't think so . Sure Its in the wilderness and Tommy Lee Jones said some things like Richard Crenna did in First Blood and his character trained Del Toro's character and Del Toro was being chased a lot but to Me it is a lot more than that ! The scenes are spectacular ! I don't think this movie deserves all of the bad comments it has gotten and I like Tommy Lee Jones ' chase movies and I wouldn't mind to see him in another one ! If you haven't see The Hunted and you like The above mentioned cast and action and chase films such as First Blood , The Fugitive , U . S . Marshals , and Double Jeopardy then this movie is perfect for you ! Movie Nuttball's note : This is totally in My opinion and may offend people but I wanted to get this out . I like the subject in the plot of the Hunted of a man that made a sport hunting humans ! I am not a fan of hunting and I think it is very bad for a person to do such a thing . Like one point in the film Benicio Del Toro said " What if there was an animal higher than us on the food chain ? And what if this suddenly lost all respect for us and started slaughtering us wholesale ? " Think about that ! Also I like what he said to the girl about the animals about people being mean to them and such about people on purpose hitting them with their car . I see this stuff on the street and I think boy , how would you like it if you were simply taking a walk and someone just hit you just for fun with their car ? When he was talking about these things I almost cried ! That's how good it is ! I am an animal lover and I always been ! Why can't others ? I'm sorry to be like this but this is how I think and how I am . The Hunted is a great movie and intelligent ! Thanks for reading !
The classic film that started it all !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . The acting by the film's human stars are also good especially by Raymond Burr ! The special effects is just wonderful and I feel that this film along with many other Godzilla film are way ahead of their time ! The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla , King of the Monsters today !
My Grandpa is a Vampire !	My Grandpa is a Vampire is a good family comedy film that stars Al Lewis ! Yes Grandpa of The Munsters ! Also in this picture are Justin Gocke , Milan Borich , Pat Evison , Noel Appleby , David Weatherley , Sean Duffy , Sylvia Rands , and Phoebe Falconer . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Al Lewis is really fantastic in this film . I thought that his performance was really wonderful ! I am amazed by his performance . If you love how he was in thew legendary show " The Munsters " then you will love him here as well ! All of the other actors are good as well . The suspense is good . The special effects are good . The movie is filmed differently and great . The music is good . The film is very interesting and funny and the movie really keeps you entertained ! If you like Al Lewis and the rest of the cast in the film , and want to see Lewis in another great performance , Family films , Comedy , and little bit of Horror and interesting films then I strongly recommend that you see this film today !
Excellent movie !	The Road Warrior is an excellent film and is extremely entertaining to watch ! The film is action packed with incredible stunts , fast paced chases , great acting , and awesome music ! Mel Gibson was is very good in the film ! Vernon Wells was terrific in The Road Warrior . He did didn't have a whole lot of dialog but the the things he did say was unique and his actions was really neat . The actor who played Lord Humungus was Kjell Nilsson ! He is a huge man and is even bigger than Vernon Wells . He also acted very good ! I am so amazed about the speed chases and all of the stunt work that it took to make this film ! The music by Brian May is excellent ! In My opinion its some of the best ever composed for a movie ! This is the sequel to Mad Max and there is another one called Mad Max : Beyond Thunderdome . The Road Warrior is arguably the best of the series ! If you like Mel Gibson , Vernon Wells , incredible action , and stunts then Mad Max 2 : The Road Warrior is the movie for you !
Great movie !	Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York is arguably funnier than the first one ! Its really good . Most of the cast returns from the original and My opinion the team work of Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern is just not insanely hilarious but its also incredible that the two are so good together ! John Williams has another amazing score here ! This is a perfect movie for people to watch around Christmas and if you need a big laugh watch this as this will crack you up ! I strongly recommend Home Alone 1 and Home Alone 2 !
Great film !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemy King Ghidora , he too is awesome and arguably looks neater than he did in previous films . I love it when the three headed beast blasts the cities with the bolts and I also love it when he roars . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla vs . King Ghidora today !
Taking Lives ! Angelina Jolie is great as always !	Taking Lives is a very good thrilling film that stars Angelina Jolie , Ethan Hawke , Kiefer Sutherland , Gena Rowlands , Olivier Martinez , and Tchéky Karyo ! The performances by all of the people in this film are very good . Jolie was excellent in this film . I am so amazed of all of the great things she can do in a film because she does her own stunts , handles guns very well , and she can act so good . In My opinion she is one of the best current actresses ! The film is very good . Its thrilling with some drama and horror thrown in and some action for good measure . The movie really keeps the viewer in mystery until close to the end . If you like Angelina Jolie and other cast mentioned , thrilling and horrifying mysteries , and want to see Jolie in another film similar like the Bone Collector then I strongly recommend this film !
The Village !	The Village is a good film that has a good cast which includes Joaquin Phoenix , Sigourney Weaver , William Hurt , Brendan Gleeson , Bryce Dallas Howard , Cherry Jones , Adrien Brody , and M . Night Shyamalan . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by James Newton Howard . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is the most different film Shyamalan has made in My opinion . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Joaquin Phoenix , Sigourney Weaver , William Hurt , Brendan Gleeson , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Drama , Horror , M . Night Shyamalan , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Back to the Future is a classic !	Back to the Future is a great movie and it is part of a great trilogy . Many people may not like the time travel movies but I do and BTTF trilogy is the movies for ME . I just love the fact that one of MY favorite actors Christopher Lloyd is in all three of them and I just love the way he is in them . And not to mention Michael J . Fox , Thomas F . Wilson and most of the others are in the three films . Back to the Future part I is the one that started it all . The 80s is MY favorite decade and this movie has such a great feeling to it . The ending is good and I am so glad the adventure continued with two more sequels . If you have not seen any Back to the Future film I suggest you see the first one . BTTF is such a great movie !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a fair Three Stooges short with Shemp . The beautiful Mary Ainslee , David Bond , Vernon Dent , Jimmie Lloyd , and Ned Glass Richard Alexander , Barbara Bartay , Don C . Harvey , Frank Sully , and Beverly Thomas are in this one . The scenes when the Stooges are getting out of bed and ready is funny . Bond is good as the hypnotist , The Great Svengarlic . There is another Three Stooges short similar like this one called Hokus Pokus and its just as good as this one . Three Stooges fans , check this one out !
A great film but its just too sad for ME .	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Baby : The Lost Legend is a great film but it is just to sad . I have seen this movie many times and each time I cry . I don't want to go into detail . A note to Parents : If your children don't like to see Dinosaurs get hurt then please don't show them this because it will upset them and yes the scenes are that emotional . I recommend to show you kids either or all three films of Jurassic Park , The Lost World : Jurassic Park II and Jurassic Park / / / if your kids like to see Dinosaurs at their best and not getting hurt . I'M not saying Baby : The Lost Legend is a bad film , no it isn't at all . It has a tremendous build up , a good story , good acting , wonderful looking Dinosaurs , excellent score by Jerry Goldsmith , and it does have a good ending but its what happens before that . Please take MY advise or view the film before your children do please .
Good one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are like the hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
One of the best films ever and is great a welcomed episode in the Star Wars Saga ! ! !	May have spoilers for the majoe Star Wars fan . All of this is MY thoughts and opinions . The wait was finally over and I saw Star Wars : Episode II : Attack of the Clones ! From beginning to the end I was not disappointed . I thought everything was fantastic , the acting , the action , the CGI , the dialogue scenes , and all of the characters was good . These are the things most of the people complain about and I don't see the problems . I guess because I am thrilled to see a spectacular film and am thankfull to be a part of history . Now , I think this film is a pure Star Wars film , I loved The Phantom Menace and the first trilogy and I really like Attack of the Clones . The film is directed really well and the color and the brightness of the movie is something special . AOTC is very fast paced and it really doesn't seem like it is over two hours . The characters in this film are just as original as they were before . Here is some small bios on some of the major characters in the film . Christopher Lee as Count Dooku / Lord Darth Tyranus - First of all I was so thrilled that the legendary actor would play a major sith in this epic ! Lee is incredible in this film . He is so powerful and uses a curved lightsaber . His voice is scary and he is a very intelligent sith warrior . He is afraid of no man and he handles everything just right . He is just such a great dark lord . I like most of the characters in Attack of the Clones but Count Dooku is MY favorite ! Hayden Christensen as Anakin Skywalker - Christensen was really good as the now grown up Anakin . He had lot of emotion in the film and I could feel it . Thru out the film he has lots of hard times and of hate and he showed it well . Christensen was really good ! Temeura Morrison as Jango Fett and Daniel Logan as Boba Fett - The Fetts is a awesome duo of father and son . Jango really treats his son good . Morrison acts as Jango seriously and is remarkable when he has his armor on . When Obi-Wan came out of the Cloning center and saw Jango and Boba was there with their ship Slave I , I really felt emotional when Jango said to Boba get on board . It was a combination of how he said it under his Mandalorian helmet and I really like the duo . Ewan McGregor as Obi-Wan Kenobi - He really is wiser now since the time has passed . McGregor has no problem with his character and I really like it when Anakin said to him you are the closest thing i have to a father and Kenobi said then why don't you listen to me ? I really liked that ! Natalie Portman as Padmé Amidala - Portman is great in AOTC . Her conversations with Anakin are believable and she looks great too but what I really like about her character is her facial expspesions . Ian McDiarmid as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine / Darth Sidious - Once again a great performance by Ian McDiarmid , as the Supreme Chancellor he shows much innocents and as the sith lord he acts like he did in the TPM and the ROTJ which are good . Leanna Walsman as Zam Wesell - Tell you the truth I really like Zam , she is a cool bounty hunter and belive it or not when it comes I think she is arguably better looking than Padmé . Samuel L Jackson as Mace Windu - Windu has a much larger role here at he goes into battle . As always Jackson did a good job as Mace Windu . Frank Oz as Yoda - The CGI Yoda is fine with ME , he still looks realistic and where he battles at the end of the film was very impressive ! Jimmy Smits as Bail Organa - Smits has a small part but what he is given he does it fine . Anthony Daniels as C-3PO and Kenny Baker as R2-D2 - Like before in the previous films they are very good , enough said ! Jay Laga'aia as Captain Typho - Good performance by this newcomer , I look forward to see Jay in other films and hopefully more of his Captain Typho character in Star Wars : Episode III ! Jack Thompson as Cliegg Lars - Thompson performed good as Cliegg Lars . Ronald Falk as Dexter Jettster - Falk did good as this big CGI character and he is funny . Ahmed Best as Jar Jar Binks - I'll tell you the truth here , I really don't know what is the problem with poor Jar Jar why everyone hates him . I think he is cute and is a interesting guy . As before Best performed well as poor Jar Jar . There are some notes I want to point out to the Star Wars Fans that I saw in the film . In the Outlander place where Obi-Wan and Anakin search for Zam Wesell , look closely for a couple of extra cameos by Anthony Daniels and Ahmed Best . In the Jedi Council the female Yoda and the Quermian Yarael Poof in Episode I is replaced in Episode II . I really like Star Wars Episode II Attack of the Clones . I really don't know what the problem is , it has tons of action and isn't that what the people wanted ? In MY opinion If you don't like it then don't see and pay for it . ME , I just love to go to the theater and see epics on the big screen , I guess I am different and am just happy what I see . I really appreciate this great movie and I think everyone should too ! I can't wait untill Episode III comes out !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is Beer Barrel Polecats . In this short are Vernon Dent , Robert Williams , Lynton Brent , Eddie Laughton , Joe Palma , Al Thompson , and Blackie Whiteford . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent and Brent . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Godzilla , Mothra , Mechagodzilla : Tokyo S . O . S . !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemies Mechagodzilla and Mothra , they too is awesome and arguably looks neater than the other Mechagodzilla and Mothra did in previous films . I love they when he roars . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla , Mothra , Mechagodzilla : Tokyo S . O . S . today !
Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith is the darkest , bleakest , coldest , painful , saddest , wonderful , and greatest film of all time in My opinion !	On June 1st , 2005 I saw the greatest and most darkest film of all time , Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith ! It was everything I thought it would be and a whole heck of a lot more ! It was such a cool experience to finally see this film ! I just couldn't believe what I saw ! How great , dark , and , exciting this film is ! The film is packed with not only superb action but great acting as well ! I am a huge Star Wars fan and I love the prequel trilogy and in My opinion Episode III is the best of them all . The directing is just great by George Lucas ! The musical score by John Williams just excellent ! This is arguably his best score in the Star Wars saga and possibly his career ! Below I will give My opinions on the actors and characters , scenes , and more ! Ewan McGregor as Obi-Wan Kenobi : He really great here . McGregor shines very bright in this one . He shows a lot emotion . Natalie Portman as Padmé : Portman is just excellent here . She cries and is very upset at things and shows it well . This is arguably her greatest performance . Hayden Christensen as Anakin Skywalker : He was the perfect choice to Anikan Skywalker . I just love the way he looks , the looks he gets on his face , and his eyes ! Its unbelievable just how awesome he is when hes mad ! He is a very , very convincing Darth Vader . Great chemistry with Portman ! Ian McDiarmid as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine : Arguably the best performance in the film , McDiarmid shows his great acting . I absolutely loved it when he was teaching Anakin . the looks he got on his was pure evil . I also loved it when he was face to face with Jedi Mace Windu . He was also great against master Yoda . Samuel L . Jackson as Mace Windu : Once again Jackson shines as the Jedi master Mace Windu . He shows great talent when he and his fellow Jedi comrades confront the Chancellor and when he has him cornered . Jimmy Smits as Senator Bail Organa : Very good performance by Smits . This time he has much more screen time . Frank Oz as Yoda ( voice ) : Just as great as usual . Anthony Daniels as C-3PO : Just as great as usual . Christopher Lee as Count Dooku : Another excellent performance by Christopher Lee . Wise words comes from him once again as a Sith lord . Even though his character dies in th film at the hands of Skywalker , he shows great trouble when his hurt . Jay Laga'aia as Captain Typho : Another good but brief performance by Jay . Bruce Spence as Tion Medon : I was very surprised by his performance . His voice and accent has totally changed for this brief role . Temuera Morrison as Commander Cody : Morrison just not plays Cody but also a handful of other Clone Troopers and he plays them very good . Peter Mayhew as Chewbacca : He was good in a brief performance . Michael Kingma as Wookie Tarfful : He was also good in a brief performance . Jett Lucas as Zett Jukassa : Very good especially for a youngster ! Kenny Baker as R2-D2 : Just as good as usual . Amy Allen as Aayla Secura : Amy Allen was good as My favorite female Jedi . I got sad when she got killed by the Clones . Matthew Wood as General Grievous : Wood's voice is something else for this new major and powerful character . The CGI of the alien cybernetic cyborg was very neat and cool . James Earl Jones as Darth Vader ( Voice ) : He's just great once again ! Ship Battle : An incredible space battle ! Just as great as the fight in ROTJ ! Anakin and Obi-Wan vs . Count Dooku : This rematch was really something ! Dooku was great against them ! Anakin vs . Count Dooku : After the Count took care of Obi-Wan he fought Anakin one on one . It was really painful to see Dooku lose against Skywalker . This was a great light saber fight however . Obi-Wan vs . General Greivous : This fight was really something . It was Grievous and his wheel bike and against Kenobi and the Boga . Then it was cyborg to man . The General's arms split to four limbs and Ob-Wan had a hard to beating him . Supreme Chancellor Palpatine vs Saesee Tiin , Agen Kolar , Kit Fisto , and Mace Windu : The fight was so unreal . Palpatine took out Tiin and Kolar like they were day dreaming but they weren't . Fisto didn't have a chance either . Windu proved how great he is with a saber by getting the Chancellor cornered . The huge window broke because they both used the force at the same time and when this happened how the light were and how the wind was blowing it reminded of the Battle of Vader against Luke in ESB ! Great scene ! Anakin vs . Mace Windu : After Windu defeated Palpatine Skywalker fights mace and gets him off guard . Yoda vs . Emperor Palpatine : This here was one of the long awaited fight . It was a great one and very memorable . Anakin vs . Obi-Wan Kenobi : This is the fight that the galaxy has waited for so long . Its a very long duel and you will see how Anakin becomes Dartn Vader in the black suit ! Clone Troopers vs . Jedi Knights : This was really a sad , sad scene . It was very pitiful seeing Ki-Adi-Mundi , Aayla Secura , Plo Koon , and Stass Allie betrayed . Battle on Kashyyk : Great battle ! Battle on Utaupau : Great battle ! Battle on Mustafar : Excellent battle ! Anakin vs . the Younglings , Jedis , and Sepertists : Amazing ! Simply amazing ! I hope you have enjoyed this review . This is really a fantastic film arguably the greatest film of all time if not the greatest film of all time ! I can't believe that people are bashing this film ! I love it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Before the film began the coming attractions were of War of the Worlds , Batman Begins , and the Fantastic Four ! It was awesome seeing this as well ! When the film ended nobody clapped . I clapped and then some followed . To think of this ! Why : (
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very funny Three Stooges short . Its extremely hilarious . Curly is so different in this one . Stanley Blystone is very good in this one and his fire chief character is a good one . The scenes with Curly and the women is very funny . There is another fire fighter Three Stooges short called Flat Foot Stooges which it is pretty good . I recommend this one !
Great Van Damme movie ! Arguably one of his best !	Lionheart is one of Jean-Claude Van Damme's best films ! Van Damme was good , classic 80s series Sledge Hammer star Harrison Page was very good . The Qissi brothers were very good and loved Abdel's character Attila ! He is such a great one as I like many things about him ! Brian Thompson was good as always Voyo Goric was here and look for Tony Halme AKA Ludvig Borga near the end in the big fight ! The movie is never boring and boasts lots of action and great music by John Scott ! If you like Van Damme and fighting films then check out Lionheart !
Great movie ! One of the best to come out in a long time !	Domestic Disturbance is a great great thriller and is in My opinion one of John Travolta's best movies to date ! Vince Vaughn was very good ! Steve Buscemi added great color to the film ! Teri Polo and Chris Ellis was good . The music by Mark Mancina is very good ! Domestic Disturbance is a great movie and if you love the cast mentioned and great thrillers then I strongly recommend you see Domestic Disturbance !
Very good film ! Arguably better than the first !	Scooby-Doo 2 : Monsters Unleashed is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Freddie Prinze Jr . , Sarah Michelle Gellar , Matthew Lillard , Linda Cardellini , Seth Green , Peter Boyle , Tim Blake Nelson , Alicia Silverstone , Neil Fanning , Pat O'Brien , and the Tazmanian Devil ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The Mystery Inc . gang are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . Boyle and Silverston are very good too ! The action thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . There are many hilarious scenes ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by David Newman and great directing by Raja Gosnell ! . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like The the first Scooby-Doo movie and the classic cartoons , Freddie Prinze Jr . , Sarah Michelle Gellar , Matthew Lillard , Linda Cardellini , Seth Green , Peter Boyle , Tim Blake Nelson , Alicia Silverstone , Neil Fanning , Pat O'Brien , the Tazmanian Devil the rest of the cast in the film , Comedy , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Family , Fantasy , Sci-Fi , Horror , Dramas , and interesting Halloween seasonal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Hollywood Homicide !	This is a pretty good movie . It stars Harrison Ford , Josh Hartnett , Lena Olin , Bruce Greenwood , Isaiah Washington , Lolita Davidovich , Keith David , Master P , Dwight Yoakam , Martin Landau , Lou Diamond Phillips , Kurupt , Frank Sinatra Jr . , Choppa , Krazy , Magic , T-Bo , and Robert Wagner . I was so surprised about Phillips . His character is so convincing ! This is a serious thrilling comedy actioner with lots of things happening all the time ! There are many moments where Harrison Ford is just hilarious and a lot of other things in the film are as well ! The action is really great and I loved the chase near end ! If you like Harrison Ford and / or any of the actors mentioned above then I strongly recommend Hollywood Homicide !
Excellent classic horror film !	The Bad Seed is a great film that has a good cast which includes Nancy Kelly , Patricia McCormack , Henry Jones , Eileen Heckart , Evelyn Varden , William Hopper , Paul Fix , Jesse White , Gage Clarke , Joan Croydon , and Frank Cady ! The acting by all of these actors is really excellent in this film . Nancy Kelly , Patricia McCormack , Henry Jones , Eileen Heckart , Evelyn Varden , William Hopper and Paul Fix are really great here ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Alex North ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Nancy Kelly , Patricia McCormack , Henry Jones , Eileen Heckart , Evelyn Varden , William Hopper , Paul Fix , Jesse White , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Arguably the greatest movie of all time !	Minor SpoilersWillow is such a cool fantasy movie . Director Ron Howard and writer Geoge Lucas combine Willow into a such a spetacular feat that this is arguablt the greatest movie of all time . It has great direction , fantastic color , great battles , creatures , great old castles , beautiful scenery , good acting , and a geat story . What more could yopu ask for ? To ME this is Val Kilmer's best movie and Joanne Whalley looks terrific . Jean Mash played Queen Bavmorda greatly , she is such a great woman . MY favorite character in Willow is General Kael . I love him because of his enormous size , great voice , and how he looks in Willow . Everybody in Willow is good . I can't say one bad thing about this movie . If you like Star Wars and / or Indiana Jones I hope you watch Willow because this is a epic movie that can not be missed !
A great film !	Minor SpoilersThis Dracula in MY opinion is really ahead of it's time . It is really like a new film dispite it's year it came out . Frank Langella is just perfect as the Count . He does everything so superb with his eyes dancing , the way he moves his fingers , he is a big man and that makes his presence very haunting . His performance is flawless ! There has been many versions of Dracula including the legendary Bela Lugosi but Langella is arguably the best one of them all ! This film also co-stars legendary actors Laurence Olivier and Donald Pleasence . The scenery is just beautiful with fog . The score by John Williams is arguably his best ! If you are for into love stories this Dracula film has a great one although at times it can be sad and especialy at the end . I recommend all Dracula and Frank Langella fans see this soon and be sure to watch it after sunset : )
Great movie ! Excellent ! ! !	I have always loved Who Framed Roger Rabbit . Christopher Lloyd is great as Judge Doom and Bob Hoskins was very good . It was so cool to see most of the great cartoon characters together in one film . The music is great by Alan Silvestri ! This is cool film and if you haven't seen it yet then I recommend you see it soon !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This Three Stooges short is an excellent one and is actually quite violent for its time . Kenneth MacDonald and Christine McIntyre are good together in this one and also in their separate scenes . Cy Schindell was also good . The Stooges are as funny as ever ! There is another Three Stooges short very similar like this one called Hot Ice which it has an alternate ending .
A great movie !	The Untouchables is really a great movie . I don't want to spoil it but I will say this . It a great cast and action ! The lengthy scene when Sean Connery is in his apartment was a rough , violent , and gory scene . What happened in it was just totally unexpected and a shock if you didn't read the book and follow the lives of these real life characters . Good acting from Kevin Costner , Sean Connery , Andy Garcia , Robert De Niro , and Charles Martin Smith ! Every one's performance was good especially from Billy Drago ! His performance as Frank Nitti was cold hearted ! He had no remorse whatsoever ! Sean Connery was very good and this is arguably his best performance . If you like true stories action and mobster films then check out The Untouchables !
Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man !	This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series ! The monsters look great ! Lon Chaney Jr . is excellent as the Wolf Man once again ! Bela Lugosi performs excellently as Frankenstein's monster ! In My opinion he is arguably neater than Boris Karloff . The music is great ! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good . In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original ! In My opinion I think that its great to have these two characters to be in the same film ! If you like Lon Chaney Jr . , Bela Lugosi , the classic Universal Monsters , great black and white movies , and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a fair Three Stooges short with Shemp . The Stooges and their girls played by Christine McIntyre , Yvette Reynard , and Marie Monteil are really the only ones in this short . There are many hilarious scenes here and Shemp is very funny ! There is a similar Three Stooges short with Joe called Fifi Blows Her Top . Love At First Bite is a good short with Shemp . I recommend it !
Drop Zone !	Drop Zone is one of the coolest films and has become one of My favorites ! Wesley Snipes was good as always ! Gary Busey was very good ! Arguably his greatest role ! Yancy Butler and Michael Jeter were also good ! Everyone acted very well ! There is very good fighting and exciting action and incredible skydiving jumps in this picture and some of the scenes are very intense ! Great directing by John Badham ! One awesome thing about this movie is the music by Hans Zimmer ! The man of sound ! His score here is one the best he has ever written and I feel it is one of the greatest scores in cinema history ! I strongly recommend this film to fans who loves action , Snipes , Busey , Butler , Jeter , Badham , and Hans Zimmer !
Great Godzilla film ! Arguably the greatest one of all !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . As for his enemies Mothra and Battra they too are awesome . I love it when they roar . The fights between the two monsters is really good . I love Battra in his larvae stage . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy Godzilla and Mothra : The Battle for Earth today !
Hollow Man is Great ! ! ! ! ! !	A classic action / horror / sci / fi movie . From the man who brought you Total Recall , RoboCop , and Basic Instinct brings you the most realistic invisable man movie ever ! Kevin Bacon is Sabastin Cane and Elisabeth Shue is Linda . Former couple working together on the most dangerous but most extrodnary experiment known to mankind . What happens to a person when they become unseen and never can be seen in the world again ? Linda and and the rest of the crew of scientists find out ! What would you do if you were invisable ? Would you want to steal some money from someone ? Or pester your nieghbor you dislike or would you do the unthinkable ? Watch as Kevin Bacon when is The Hollow Man , his greatest role ever in MY opinion . By the by , listen to the music by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith , the music is awesome . Buy the soundtrack ! ! ! Hollow Man - four stars
The Alamo is a classic and is one of the greatest films in history !	The Alamo is a great and is a classic film that has a great cast which includes John Wayne , Richard Widmark , Laurence Harvey , Frankie Avalon , Patrick Wayne , Linda Cristal , Joan O'Brien , Chill Wills , Joseph Calleia , Ken Curtis , Carlos Arruza , Jester Hairston , Bill Daniel , Wesley Lau , Chuck Roberson , Guinn ' Big Boy ' Williams , and Richard Boone ! The acting by all of the actors are great ! Wayne has arguably his Best acting in this film . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Dimitri Tiomkin ! I love the Green Leaves of Summer song ! Great directing by John Wayne ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . In My opinion the Alamo is greatest films ! If you like John Wayne , Richard Widmark , Laurence Harvey , Frankie Avalon , Patrick Wayne , Linda Cristal , Joan O'Brien , Chill Wills , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , War , Drama , Western , and interesting true stories then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good film !	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is a very good film that has a huge casting that is great which includes Kevin Spacey , John Cusack , Jack Thompson , Irma P . Hall , Jude Law , Alison Eastwood , Lady Chablis , Leon Rippy , and Bob Gunton . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Spacey is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The dialog is really good and some of the events in this picture are surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . Clint Eastwood directed this film excellently in My opinion . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Kevin Spacey , John Cusack , Jack Thompson , the rest of the cast in the film , Crime , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The 1999 MLB All-Star Game !	One of the most exciting Major League Baseball All-Star games was the 1999 edition . There were many surprising moments in this game and every second of it in My opinion was exciting ! So many great players were chosen in this game . Including Mark McGwire , Larry Walker , A-Rod , Chipper Jones , Jose Offerman , Magglio Ordonez , Rafael Palmeiro and so many other greats ! One of the many things I like about the All-Star game is that the viewer gets to see some of the greatest MLB players the sport has to offer that some states in America and even other countries don't get the chance to watch . It always seems that the American League has the upper hand but I for one will never count out the National League . I am a huge Baseball fan and just love everything about the sport ! When the first moment on Joe Buck and company broadcast the game you know its gonna be an epic event ! If you are a Baseball fan and are able to watch this game on TV or even on tape do so because its a classic ! I recommend it !
The 1998 MLB All-Star Game !	One of the most exciting and arguably the greatest Major League Baseball All-Star games was the 1998 edition . There were many surprising moments in this game and every second of it in My opinion was exciting ! So many great players were chosen in this game . Including Andres Galarraga , Mark McGwire , Larry Walker , Dante Bichette , Vinny Castilla , A-Rod , Chipper Jones , Paul O'Neil , and so many other greats ! One of the many things I like about the All-Star game is that the viewer gets to see some of the greatest MLB players the sport has to offer that some states in America and even other countries don't get the chance to watch . It always seems that the American League has the upper hand but I for one will never count out the National League . I am a huge Baseball fan and just love everything about the sport ! When the first moment on Joe Buck and company broadcast the game you know its gonna be an epic event ! If you are a Baseball fan and are able to watch this game on TV or even on tape do so because its a classic ! I recommend it !
Very good action movie !	The sequel to the Fugitive is just as good in My opinion ! Its never boring and Tommy Lee Jones and Wesley Snipes are very good in the movie . The score by Jerry Goldsmith is tremendous ! U . S . Marshals is a good entertaining film to check out !
The 1997 MLB All-Star Game !	One of the most different Major League Baseball All-Star games was the 1997 edition . There were many surprising moments in this game and every second of it in My opinion was exciting ! So many great players were chosen in this game . Including Tino Martinez , Edgar Martinez , Mark McGwire , Larry Walker , Ken Caminiti , Barry Bonds , A-Rod , Chipper Jones , Paul O'Neil , and so many other greats ! One of the many things I like about the All-Star game is that the viewer gets to see some of the greatest MLB players the sport has to offer that some states in America and even other countries don't get the chance to watch . It always seems that the American League has the upper hand but I for one will never count out the National League . I am a huge Baseball fan and just love everything about the sport ! When the first moment on Joe Buck and company broadcast the game you know its gonna be an epic event ! If you are a Baseball fan and are able to watch this game on TV or even on tape do so because its a classic ! I recommend it !
Excellent !	Universal Soldier is a superb action film that stars Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren plus Ally Walker , Ed O'Ross , Ralph Moeller , Tiny Lister jr . ( Zeus ) , Jerry Orbach , and none other than Thomas Rosales jr . and yes you guest it , He gets killed in this film too ! Universal Soldier is quite an epic film and is arguably Van Damme's best ! I laugh every time when ever Lundgren speaks because his lines are dang funny and he says them well ! I like Ally Walker as she is a very good actress and a beautiful woman ! This is the best of the Universal Soldier films and is a great experience to watch for action fans !
Good Stooges short with Joe !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This one with Joe is a remake of the one with Curly called Oily To Bed , Oily to Rise . Though this one to some people isn't as good but I think it is and it definitely has its moments ! Its funny and Joe does a good job here in a role very similar like Curly's in the earlier short . This one is a good one to watch !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Good one with Curly !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Lindsay Bourquin LaVerne , Betty Phares , Judy Malcolm , Eddie Borden , Lynton Brent , Bobby Burns , Lew Davis , Eddie Laughton , and John Tyrrell ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . I strongly recommend this Three Stooges short !
Good alien movie with Christopher Walken	Communion is a good alien movie that's based on a true story . Christopher Walken was very good . I don't want to get into the film much but I will say that the film can be quite scary sometimes especially with that haunting music ! The film is entertaining and interesting ! The box is beautiful ! I believe this story as I believe in aliens and the unknown ! That's all I can say without spoiling it . I can say I strongly recommend you see Communion ! Movie Nuttball's note : If you like alien movies I also recommend the following films : The UFO Incident , Close Encounters of the Third Kind , E . T . the Extra - Terrestrial , Time Walker , Invaders from Mars , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Life Form , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , and Predator 2 !
The movie is Dreamcatcher !	Dreamcatcher is an outstanding alien film and yet another great story from Stephen King ! Morgan Freeman was excellent and I liked his eye brows ! The way acted and looked reminded Me a lot of R . Lee Ermey ! Thomas Jane , Tom Sizemore were very good , Damian Lewis and Timothy Olyphant were good . Donnie Wahlberg looks so different its hard to recognize him ! I couldn't help but think that Jason Lee looked just like Matthew Broderick in the movie . I guess it was the glasses he wore and his hair style . The rest of the cast was good as well ! Like most Stephen King stories Dreamcatcher is a bit hard to follow and it wasn't predictable at all ! The aliens were awesome looking . There is a lot of action in the film and it has some shocking moments . The scenes with the animals was simply incredible ! I thought the aliens looked awesome ! The music by James Newton Howard was good . Lawrence Kasdan's direction was good . This is the ultimate Stephen King story and one of the best alien movies out there ! If you love Alien movies , Morgan Freeman , Thomas Jane , Donnie Wahlberg and Stephen King then check out this unbelievable movie called Dreamcatcher ! Movie Nuttball's note : If you like alien movies especially that vary with some comedy , horror , family entertainment , and that is very serious I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , Close Encounters of the Third Kind , E . T . the Extra - Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Time Walker , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Communion , Fire in the Sky , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , The Puppet Masters , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Signs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King movie see Stephen King's IT !
Deep Rising is a excelent sea monster film with some neat bad guys , lot of action , and more !	Minor SpoilersThis sea monster action horror fest isn't to be missed ! I'M sure you know the storyline so I will comment on the action and and the monster . The action is pretty good and it has decent effects . Now for the monster , it is pretty impressive when it comes to it's looks and it is really dangerous and it has one heck of a roar ! This movie has good acting and the gore factor is high plus it has great music by Jerry Goldsmith ! There hasn't been too many sea creature movies and especialy like this ! I just hope there will be a sequel too this movie , I gotta know that that was at the end : )
Jaws ! ! !	Jaws is an epic movie and it is My favorite shark film . Great acting by Roy Scheider and Richard Dreyfuss but the acting was superb in My opinion by Robert Shaw ! The shark itself was awesome ! The view of the water in Jaws is spooky and it makes you feel that anything can be in it ! The music by John Williams is great and the direction by Steven Spielberg is terrific ! Jaws has three other sequels but they aren't classics like this ! If you like shark movies and haven't seen Jaws or even if you have check out Jaws today !
Star Trek : Insurrection is great addition to the great series !	The latest installment of the Star Trek feature films , Star Trek : Insurrection boasts action , some humor , and emotional moments . The Next Generation crew is at their best in my opinion and F . Murray Abraham played an excellent part ! A great performance by the veteran actor ! The special effects with the bird and ships and the planets are superb ! Jerry Goldsmith's score is magnificent that is unbelievably clear sounding ! Star Trek : Insurrection is great addition to the great series and I can't wait for Star Trek : Nemesis to come out !
Classic Disney film !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Cyborg comment and note about the title !	This movie is terribly good ! Jean-Claude Van Damme stars in this action packed film ! The fight scenes are great and Van Damme's acting was good . Vincent Klyn was incredible ! His acting made his character an unbelievable villain ! His voice or not it is one neat and scary voice ! The prolog / intro was good with Fender talking and seeing the bad guys walking was amazing ! The film keeps along with the story well and the music is really good . The film is only an hour and twenty-six minute and it rolls by quick which I want more of Cyborg ! I really like Cyborg as it is a fun and exciting film to watch . If you haven't seen Cyborg and like Van Damme and super violence and excitement then Cyborg is the movie your looking for ! Movie Nuttball's Note : This is old news but just in case you don't know it I'll tell you ! To make a long story short the reason why Cyborg is called Masters of the Universe II : The Cyborg is because of the original script of MOTU 2 wasn't good to them and they turned it around and it became Cyborg ! Honestly thought I love the MOTU movie and I would have enjoyed a real sequel but this movie is great as well !
Fantastic horror movie ! One of the best ever !	They is superb and it is the ultimate horror movie ! I was really scared watching it and I had no idea what to expect ! The creatures was awesome ! The movie proved that you always don't have to have gore to scare the audience ! The music was good by Elia Cmiral ! Honestly many movies don't scare Me but this one sure did ! The ending is incredible ! They doesn't deserve any of the bad comments in My opinion and horror fans should be totally satisfied with They because it delivers everything ! If you love horror or like to be scared then watch They ASAP ! I Strongly recommend They !
A very good film ! It deserves alot !	What a great movie ! Excellent acting by Cage and Sinise ! Great color , great and yet usual camra work , great suspence , and awesome music ! I just love those following scenes with Cage and Sinise ! As a big Boxing fan I was pleased how the fight in the ring was performed . Snake Eyes is a terrific film that delivers it it all !
Gremlins 2 : The New Batch !	Gremlins 2 : The New Batch is a very good sequel to Gremlins ! It is funny and very entertaining ! Some of the original actors from the first one including Dick Miller acts good but Christopher Lee makes this film even better in My opinion ! The movie's Gremlins look great and are cute at the same time ! Jerry Goldsmith's music is very good with some new themes ! If you like director Joe Dante and and have seen the prequel but have not seen Gremlins 2 yet then I recommend you see this cute but some what serious film !
Criminal Law !	Criminal Law is a different thrilling movie starring Kevin Bacon , Gary Oldman , Tess Harper , Karen Young , and Joe Don Baker ! All of these actors and actresses performed very well especially Bacon and Oldman ! Criminal Law is a very thrilling and is very interesting film . You never know what is going to happen next and the characters are very colorful in My opinion . The music by Jerry Goldsmith is very good and fits the film very well . Kevin Bacon plays a very good villain here and it something else how he is in this picture . Oldman has a fantastic performance ! If you are looking for a great entertaining and thrilling crime film with a good cast , excellent acting , and many thrills then I strongly recommend this film that today !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Shemp none other than Parden My Clutch ! All appearing in this short are Emil Sitka , Stanley Blystone , George Lloyd , Alyn Lockwood , Wanda Perry , Doris Revier ! There are so many funny parts here . This is a very hilarious short . There is another similar Three Stooges short like this one called Wam Bam Slam and I recommend both !
Steven Seagal's Under Siege !	Steven Seagal's Under Siege series is action packed with a big cast ! The first film is very good . It has Tommy Lee Jones , Gary Busey , Colm Meaney , Glenn Morshower , and Damian Chapa ! It has good fight scenes and I love it when Seagal fight Jones ! The score by Gary Chang is good . The film is directed by Andrew Davis and he did a great job ! If you like Seagal and the above mentioned cast members then check out the Steven Seagal's Under Siege !
Great movie !	The Mask is great funny movie that star Jim Carrey and he was the perfect choice to the Mask ! Petter Greene was very good and played a good villain like he always does ! Amy Yasbeck and Nancy Fish were good . Cameron Diaz was good in her debut and I would liked it if she kept on to this day looking like she did in film . The film is very good and it has some great scenes and boasts some of the funniest things ever and I don't spoil it for you so if you like the cast I mentioned and really silly stuff and a very entertaining movie then watch the Mask !
Africa's Elephant Kingdom !	This is a very good Documentary with good narration by Avery Brooks . I think that all of the filming of the wonderful animals is really great . I knew some things about the African Elephant but by watching this video I learned a whole lot more ! I did not know how smart Elephants are . One of the things I thought was remarkable was when two males fight for the female they go into a fight and the thing is they actually know that the are going to get hurt or even die in the battle . Another thing is how the Elephants stay together as family . The video clips of the leader Elephant charging when threatened was really awesome ! This video in so interesting , sad , great , entertaining , funny , and exciting all at the same time . There is some death in this feature but it is not by man . If you love Elephants and want to see how intelligent these creatures are and the cute as well as the great things they do in the wild then I strongly recommend you watch this today because I don't think you can watch anything more informal ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I love most animals in the world and I dislike people harming animals and the poachers killing innocent creatures . One day I would like man to be the hunted . This is just how I feel . Thank you for reading !
Good movie !	This movie that Wes Craven Presents called Don't Look Down is actually a very good movie ! Its not predictable or at least I didn't think it was . It always keeps you going and makes you wonder what is going to happen next ! All of the cast members that are in the film act solidly . The music is very good especially the end credits by J . Peter Robinson . Like I said above its a good mystery and keeps you on the edge of your seat ! Its not gory so die hard Wes Craven fans will be disappointed about but like the other movie Wes Craven presented They ( which I might add that in My opinion is one of the best horror movies ever ) which it didn't have gore either so a horror movie doesn't always need to be gory to be scary . I that Don't Look Down is good film and I recommend it to all horror , thriller , and mystery fans !
Excellent Three Stooges short with Curly !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Curly is none other than A-Ducking They Did Go ! All appearing in this short are Lynton Brent , Vernon Dent , Bud Jamison , Cy Schindell , Victor Travers ! There are so many funny parts here and the singing scene is really neat . This is a very hilarious short and I recommend it !
If you want a silly film well . . . This is it !	Plan 9 from Outer Space one of My favorite film of all time ! This classic film with errors and a low budget is arguably Ed Wood's best film I love the story , the acting , knowing that Bela Lugosi , Tor Johnson , and Vampira are in the same film , the special effects , and every else that the film has to offer ! For starters the acting by all of the actors is actually very good in My opinion especially by the invaders . Lugosi performs excellently as well and I just love it that he is dressed as Count Dracula once again ! Big Tor Johnson also has a great performance and he really looks awesome and the same goes for Vampira ! Now for the hilarious things about the film . The space ships look really rather different but when they land they look OK . The dialog at times seems silly but the conversations between people are good . The narration by Criswell is good . The music is excellent . The direction by Ed Wood is actually good . The film is great for many reasons in My opinion . This is one of those treasures that are so bad its excellent . If you love low budget films that are extremely bad but are hilarious , and want to see a spookyish flick that is good to watch around Halloween time and any time if you want to laugh for a hour and a half then I strongly recommend that you buy this masterpiece Plan 9 from Outer Space ! today !
One of the greatest movies of all time ! The Passion Recut Comment !	The Passion of the Christ is an excellent and wonderful film ! I am impressed with not only Mel Gibson's directing this epic but also the time he took to make this film . Jim Caviezel was the perfect choice to play Christ . His performance was excellent . You can feel his pain and suffering . He was so believable . He is an incredible actor ! Everyone that is in this film also performed really well ! The graphic violence is so real looking and I am amazed how wonderful this movie is ! No one in the film speaks English in the movie but I think this was a very wise choice to make it even more realistic ! The music by John Debney is great ! Everything looks real ! If you love Jesus and want to see Mel Gibson's extraordinary direction that I strongly suggest that you watch The Passion of the Christ today ! - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I had the chance to see the Passion of the Christ Recut on / 05 at our huge local cinema and in My opinion this was a chance of a life time ! I am very thrilled that this epic film is once again shown on the big screen ! I have said My opinions in the above paragraph but I will say a couple things . Jim Caviezel is so spectacular as Jesus . John Debney's musical score is extraordinary and it sounds so awesome in the theater . It was an incredible experience and I would love more and more movies shown in the theaters especially some of My favorites . If you have a chance to go see a movie within the next couple of days choose to see The Passion of the Christ because of its greatness , epicness , great action , excellent musical score , and for many other reasons ! I strongly recommend The Passion of the Christ ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : There was only two other people in the cinema watching The Passion . I thought it was unbelievable because I would that there would be a ton of people wanting to see this masterpiece !
A good funny film !	Eight Legged Freaks is a good comedy . David Arquette plays a serious role and Kari Wuhrer looked great in the film . Rick Overton and Doug E . Doug was good . Leon Rippy was good . Tom Noonan to Me had a surprising role which he played very good . Though I didn't really think the comedy was with the actors I mostly laughed at the spiders because how they acted . They made little noises which almost sounded like words . It was hilarious when one of the eight leggers jumped on a stuffed animal and took a bite out of it and then spit it out and said something like Puwie ! It was very funny ! Most of the spiders did funny things . the effects are great ! I liked this movie as it was a different type of comedy which was somewhat serious . I recommend all fans of comedy , horror , sc-fi , and spider films to see eight legged freaks ! Note : The film at the end of the VHS version has special bonus footage . They are scene that never made it in the film which in My opinion the one with Leon Rippy when he talks about his ostriches played a big part in the film but was deleted .
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This Three Stooges short is a very good one . Gene Roth , the very lovely Greta Thyssen , Milton Frome , Symona Boniface , Helen Dickson , Johnny Kascier , Emil Sitka , Harriette Tarler , and Victor Travers are in this one . I believe the beautiful Christine McIntyre is also in this with a believe it or not very dark hair color ! This is a remake of Half-Wits Holiday which is pretty good . This maybe a remake of Curly's last one but it has its moments so this a good one to watch !
Seven is one great movie I recommend strongly !	Se7en is excellent thrilling mystery that has a great cast ! Brad Pitt was very good and at the when he found out , his acting was superb ! Morgan Freeman was also excellent ! Kevin Spacey played John Doe flawlessly ! Gwyneth Paltrow was good . R . Lee Ermey was good as always ! It was surprising to see Richard Roundtree in the movie . John C . McGinley had a small part which he did good for the limited time he got to perform and Richard Portnow was good . The music by Howard Shore was very good . David Fincher's directing was unique ! The last part of the movie when John Doe turns himself , when he is in the car with Pitt and Freeman , and when they were on the desert and the helicopter scenes were through the binoculars , and when Pitt and Freeman were going back and forth , that entire scene is one of the greatest in cinematic history ! This film is really horrifying and not for the squeamish but if you love gruesome murder mystery movies this is a great one to watch !
Good film !	Milo and Otis is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Shigeru Tsuyuguchi , Kyôko Koizumi , and Dudley Moore ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . Its amazing how the animals are in this film ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Shigeru Tsuyuguchi , Kyôko Koizumi , and Dudley Moore ! the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Drama , Family , Comedy and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
A Great Disney short !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Good oldie !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Great animated movie !	Unico : To The Magic Island or Unico : In The Island Of Magic is a very unusual animated film ! Its funny and has a very dark theme to it . The music is good and fits the film . The animation is very good and is similar like the animation seen in Voltron : Defender of the Universe . The color of the cartoon is really beautiful . It has some great effects when it comes to the storms , rain , and all of the magic scenes . The English voices are cool . I thought that the voice and the look of Kuruku was really fitting . This is a very hard to find movie because its out of print and if you find this tape any where on the web , at a video store , or at some type of sale buy it immediately especially if it ha sit original case ! This really is a great animated film ! If you like animated features and want to see one with a dark nature and store then Unico : In The Island Of Magic is the one to watch !
Great one !	Mission Impossible is a very good film that has a great cast including Tom Cruise , Jon Voight , Emmanuelle Béart , Henry Czerny , Jean Reno , Ving Rhames , Kristin Scott Thomas , Vanessa Redgrave , Dale Dye , Marcel Iures , Ion Caramitru , Ingeborga Dapkunaite , Valentina Yakunina , Michael Rogers , Karel Dobry , Andreas Wisniewski , Annabel Mullion , Helen Lindsay , Pat Starr , Richard D . Sharp , Randall Paul , Sue Doucette , Graydon Gould , Tony Vogel , Michael Rogers , Laura Brook , Morgan Deare , David Phelan , Melissa Knatchbull , Keith Campbell , Michael Cella , John Knoll , and Emilio Estevez ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Cruise is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The action , stunts , special effects and make up effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Danny Elfman and great directing Brian De Palma ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Tom Cruise , Jon Voight , Emmanuelle Béart , Henry Czerny , Jean Reno , Ving Rhames , Kristin Scott Thomas , Vanessa Redgrave , John Knoll , Emilio Estevez , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Mystery , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Bloodsport is a excellent fighting film !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . Minor SpoilersBloodsport is arguably Jean-Claude Van Damme's best film next to Hard Target . It begins with such a cool intro with the fighters and cool music by Paul Hertzog . It has a few good songs too ! It has very good fighting and it is a serious movie . Here is a brief look at the film's best competitors that are most likely to win the Kumite . Bolo Yeung as Chong Li - Chong Li is the undefeated champion that holds many records and will do anything to win a match whether it is to break a man's leg , knock him out or even kill his opponent . He has huge muscles and there is no telling how strong he is . Every fighter is in trouble when they step in the ring against him . Jean-Claude Van Damme as Frank Dux - Frank Dux is a great fighter taught by Tanaka . He a hansome , musclar , smart , and kind man that cares . He know just about it all when it come to fighting thanks to his great master . He really cares for his new friend Jackson . Paulo Tocha as Paco - There is one kickboxer type fighter named Paco . He is a great fighter but he doesn't block well but he has two advantages . 1 . Paco's opponent's should not trust him when he reaches out to shake hands because he is a cheater and 2 . is when he grabs ahold of his opponent its all over with ! Donald Gibb as Jackson - Jackson is a massive man with a bad attitude but is a good friend to Frank Dux . He is very tuff , strong , and is able to beat up anyone though he fools around too much and that's his only mistake . Michel Qissi as Parades - Parades has big thick legs that hits his opponents hard but like Paco he is not a good blocker and that is his only flaw . Bloodsport has many other great figters but these are top ones in the Kumite . If you like Jean-Claude Van Damme and fighting films then be sure to check this awesome Jean-Claude Van Damme movie out soon because in MY opinion it is a classic !
Great one !	This is one of the most fantastic animated features of all time in My opinion ! Being a huge fan of movie music and classical music this is such an extraordinary movie to watch and enjoy . My favorite pieces in the film is the The Pines of Rome , Rhapsody in Blue , and The Firebird Suite . These are three of the greatest pieces of music ever written in My opinion ! The animation is crisp , clean , and clear ! Disney did a fabulous achievement here ! So if you love Disney , the original Fantasia animated feature , animated films in general , movie scores , and classical music then I strongly recommend that you head over to Amazon . com today and purchase this great animated movie today !
Great movie !	This movie is very good . Its deep , its clever , its very interesting , and entertaining . I just really like how Mulder and Scully are . The situations they get in make you care about them especially Scully . Martin Landau , William B . Davis , Mitch Pileggi , Jeffrey DeMunn , Terry O'Quinn , and Armin Mueller-Stahl were all good ! The music is good and the direction and editing is superb . X-Files : Fight the Future is really a classic movie and I feel its one of the best films ever ! If you like the series then you'll love the movie !
A good Stooge short !	This ancient Egypt tale that stars the Three Stooges is very good . Vernon Dent is very good as King Rootentootin . Ralph Dunn was good as Rhadames and Philip Van Zandt Futamon , the Tax Collector . Mummies Dummies is very funny . This is one of My favorites and if you a Stooge fan then this is a good one to check out !
A good low budget monster film !	The Track of the Moon Beast is a great bad movie ! Most of the cast in it is unknown and do have some bad acting but they do have their moments . The opening credits is bizarre with green words all over . The character Johnny Longbow is a hero in his own right and I just couldn't believe how fast the relationship was between Paul and Kathy and I am glad they didn't get into any sex scenes which made Me like this movie even more . The movie ( being low budget ) has some errors and some strange parts of the film but the monster I thought was actually pretty neat . There is some gore but it flashes by so quick that its nothing to be grossed out about . The story itself is seems ridiculous and exaggerated but when I saw it on it film I actually liked it and it was a good experience all the way around . I like low budget films and this one to Me is a good one . If you are able to watch this one or saw it before and didn't like it give it second viewing but this movie deserves it ! Note : When the band plays the song " California Lady " , look in the crowd . There you will see a big man with a blue shirt and mustache . I believe he was in Bruce Lee's Return of the Dragon as a villain ! Don't quote Me on this but he looked a lot like him .
Pardon My Backfire !	On a local Television station I saw this funny Three Stooges in true 3D ! There was another one in 3D called Spooks ! Pardon My Backfire was really already in 3D like when Moe would do his stuff like throwing something or when one of the gangsters did something it would come right into the screen ! What I mean by true 3D is that it had the color like the famous colors ! It was a cool experience ! The Three Stooges short is pretty good ! It has a couple brutal scenes like the wire going through Larry's nose and ear and he must pull it out and like when Moe's behind is one fire ! The actors that played the gangsters are cool which they have played other parts in other Three Stooges shorts ! Like other Three Stooges shorts , the Stooges have girl friends . Like the other 3D short , this too has the different introduction with the stooges doing it live instead of the usual intro ! With the 3D experience or without it Pardon My Backfire is funny one to watch !
Great action packed film !	Minor Spoilers . Lara Croft Tomb Raider : The Cradle of Life is a great movie ! Its arguably better than the first one ! Angelina Jolie is great in it and it is so amazing that she does her own stunts ! I think she is perfect for this role and that she is a fine actress ! Gerard Butler was also good ! His character is neat and his build and accent makes it cool ! I thought he and Jolie worked very good together through out the film ! He is a very good actor ! I also thought that Ciarán Hinds and Djimon Hounsou performed good too ! Good special effects . The film has an incredible amount of action ! The part where Reiss and his men have Croft prisoner was believe it or not on the scary side ! Great suspense ! The Shadow Guardians were awesome ! That scene where the monsters attack rulez ! The music is by one of the greatest composers in My opinion and one of My favorites Alan Silvestri ! Very good theme ! This is My favorite of the two Tomb Raider films ! I really like these and I hope that they will make at least one more and that Angelina Jolie plays Lara once more because she was born for this great role in My opinion ! Excellent film ! Strongly recommended !
Finally after all these years , it happened ! ! ! !	Minor SpoilersBeing so long after ROFJ , I was thinking how TPM would be . It matched the other 3 films really good with new characters , spaceships , and other stuff . There are two things I get get why it was like it was . I Darth Maul has a big presence in TPM but its really a shame he didn't survive and I thought he was going to be very powerful . Second is that Anakin is much younger that the Queen , like 10 , 15 years and in MY opinion I find this as a distubing point of the movie and if Lucas maybe have done a 18 , 19 year old and shown just a little of the dark side that when he grew up we could have seen the menace in Darth Vader but a kid playing that role just didn't set well because thinking of him and her later on together it would still be her robbing the cradel ? Ohwell I guess he just wanted a kid in the movie whether it would fit or not . Other than those two things this sequel is very good and I can't wait for AOTC ! ! ! !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This Three Stooges short is an excellent one . Kenneth MacDonald and Christine McIntyre are good together in this one and also in their separate scenes . Cy Schindell was also good . The Stooges are as funny as ever ! There is another Three Stooges short very similar like this one called Crime on Their Hands which it has an alternate ending .
Great movie !	Home Alone is arguably one of the funniest movies ever ! Its really good . The cast is very good ! It was sweet to see John Candy in it ! The team work of Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern is just not insanely hilarious but its also incredible that the two are so good together and I like how their scenes of punishment is followed right after the other ! I think John Heard looks like Bruce Willis ! I like Catherine O'Hara , she is a fine actress ! Look for Larry Hankin and Roberts Blossom ! John Williams has another great score here ! This is a perfect movie for people to watch around Christmas and if you need a big laugh watch this as it will crack you up ! Also , I strongly recommend Home Alone 2 ! It arguably funnier then this plus Time Curry , Brenda Fricker , and Rod Sell appears in it ! Both movies are strongly recommended !
Good one with Skemp !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Shemp is none other than Rip , Sew and Stitch ! All appearing in this short are the great Vernon Dent , the excellent Tiny Brauer , Phil Arnold , the hilarious Cy Schindell , and Jules White There are so many funny parts here . Dent , Brauer , and Schindell are great here ! This is a very hilarious short . There is another similar Three Stooges short like this one called Sing a Song of Six Pants and I recommend both !
Great movie !	The Vanishing is really a good and suspenseful film . A very good performance by Jeff Bridges . He plays a very eccentric character ! Kiefer Sutherland was good as always ! Nancy Travis put on a strong performance and Sandra Bullock was good as well ! Great music by Jerry Goldsmith ! The movie has some horror and its a big mystery and a chilling storyline ! I strongly recommend you see the Vanishing !
Great one !	This has become one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! I really like Vern Dent as Fuller Bull . Dick Curtis and Bud Jamison was really good ! The entire little film is hilarious ! Good story and entertainment ! I recommend it !
One of the best and hilarious animated films ever !	This is a classic animated film from the cartoon series ! Most of the major characters get alot of screen time plus do extra characters aswell ! The film's focus is on the superstar characters vacation and each one has his / her very unique summer fun ! Its very funny from beginning to end ! It has excellent color , great music and believe it or not I have seen this more than any movie . Its that great and in MY opinion its perfect !
The Ghost of Frankenstein !	This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series ! The monsters look great ! Lon Chaney Jr . is excellent as the Frankenstein monster ! In My opinion he is arguably neater than Boris Karloff . Bela Lugosi performs excellently as Ygor ! The makeup on both of these actors is excellent ! Collin Clive is in this one ! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good . The music is great ! In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original ! In My opinion I think that its great to have these two characters to be played by these two actors in the same film ! If you like Lon Chaney Jr . , Bela Lugosi , the classic Universal Monsters , great black and white movies , and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today !
Great Christmas movie !	I thought that the Pink Panther and other characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this movie are hilarious in My opinion . These characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original the pink Panther cartoons and the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie !
One of best fighting movies of all time ! ! ! !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time . Big Trouble in Little China is a true classic and there is very few films like it . The movie is perfect in My opinion . I have always loved it . In fact , I loved it the very first time I saw it many , many years ago . John Carpenter is a genius and when he came up with this one he came up with one of the best stories and made it into movie that is so great words really can't describe how fantastic it is ! What made it so wonderful is a number things ! A few of the things are God , the one of a kind nature of the excellent decade of the 80s , and a great film maker ! There are so many things I adore in the movie . The acting by the cast and how they make the characters they play seem so real ! Kurt Russell is just fantastic in this film . Dennis Dunn also has a great performance . Kim Cattrall is also very good . Victor Wong and James Hong are just fabulous here . Carter Wong , Peter Kwong , and James Pax have very memorable roles as well . Another thing that makes this film so good is the arguably better than today special effects and Carpenter's music ! The effects were so brilliant , flawless , and very realistic ! In My opinion it will always look great and never seem dated out ! The score is extraordinary ! The score sounds epic and the music is used perfectly in the scenes ! Its one of the greatest musical scores ever in My opinion ! The costumes the characters wear are so cool looking and it made them have more personality ! The action is superb and is really in the tradition of a Bruce Lee movie with added material if you will ! I am amazed by how incredible it is . I feel this is John Carpenter's greatest film and is one of the greatest films of all time ! It has so much that you could have in a movie . I strongly recommend this film for everyone !
Great disaster movie !	The Core is a very good movie with a good but different cast . The disaster scenes are unbelievable ! The music is very good by Christopher Young ! The whale scenes were awesome ! It was neat to watch that scene when the space shuttle is going to crash into Los Angeles . It was so cool that there was the baseball game between the Colorado Rockies against the Los Angeles Dodgers and the player highlight was none other than slugger Shawn Green ! The match up was Mike Hampton ( who is currently an Atlanta Brave ) pitching to Shawn Green ! It was a treat ! As for the movie , I don't want to say to much but its entertaining and will keep you going and if you want the ultimate disaster film then look no further than the Core !
Alien 3 ! Great beginning and even better ending !	Alien 3 , Sigourney Weaver is in trouble once again . Alien is good film is arguably the best of the series and I think they should have left it alone or changed the story of Alien Resurrection because in my opinion AR was horrible . It ruined the Alien name in my opinion . Hopefully when Alien vs . Predator comes it'll be the greatest Alien movie of them all ! I can't wait for it !
A great spooky movie with a great cast !	What Lies Beneath is arguably Robert Zemeckis ' best film next to the Back to the Future Trilogy and Who Framed Roger Rabbit which are some of My favorite films . Harrison Ford plays such a different role compared to his Han Solo and Indiana Jones characters but he played it well . He still looks good no doubt and Michelle Pfeiffer's role is good and she played it good and she looks excellent ! James Remar was good and looked different but I feel there could have been more done with his role as he wasn't give a good much time but he acted good nonetheless . Same thing goes for Joe Morton . Alan Silvestri's score is chilling , spooky , and he composed a great , great theme . Fans of Ford , Pfeiffer , Remar , Zemeckis , or Psycho should love What Lies Beneath !
The Punisher is excellent ! Jane and Travolta are great ! Kevin Nash is awesome ! One of the most explosive movies in years !	The Punisher ! Starring Thomas Jane , John Travolta , Kevin Nash , Roy Scheider , Will Patton , Rebecca Romijn-Stamos , Laura Harring , Samantha Mathis , Mark Collie , Marc Macaulay , Terry Loughlin , Tom Nowicki , Steve Raulerson , and Marco St . John ! This new version of the Punisher is awesome in My opinion ! Tom Jane was perfect as the Punisher . He gave an all business attitude ! His muscular physique is amazing and he put a lot of emotion into this great character . John Travolta arguably had the biggest spotlight . In My opinion he played a great villain and performed greatly ! Will Patton also had a great role and performed really well as a villain . The three actresses Romijn-Stamos , Harring , and Mathis all performed well . Roy Scheider performed well and looked great in his brief role . But the one that really surprised Me was none other than Kevin Nash as The Russian ! I am a huge Kevin Nash fan as I have followed most of his years in Pro Wrestling . He looked excellent as this incredible character . He has become one of My most favorite villains in a movie ! For the action and the violence , there is plenty of violence and all of the action is top notch ! In fact , there are many scenes that made Me say " wow " and other things out loud and one of the scenes for example is when The Russian appears and fights The Punisher ! The music is good and the movie is filmed differently . So if you are a Marvel Comics fan and like Thomas Jane , John Travolta , Will Patton , Romijn-Stamos , Roy Scheider , and want to see Kevin Nash in one of the most spectacular scenes ever and also want non-stop top notch action and surprising violence then do what I did and buy this movie now ! You will want to see it again and again ! Its that good ! I strongly recommend it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like Marvel Comic movies then I recommend The Punisher ( 1989 ) , The X-Men , X2 : X-Men United , Spider-Man , Spider-Man 2 , Daredevil , and The Hulk ! Here is a very interesting thing I noticed . Rebecca Romijn-Stamos plays Mystique in the X-Men films and she is in The Punisher . Also I thought its amazing to know that Tyler Mane ( Sabertooth in X-Men ) and Kevin Nash ( who were both tag team partners in WCW years ago ) have both played major Marvel Comic villains in two different movies ! Its something very interesting that I noticed !
Good Three Stooges short ! Hilarious !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is Pop goes the Easel . In this short are Bobby Burns , Phyllis Crane , Lew Davis , Jack Duffy , Phyllis Fine , Joan Howard , William Irving , Leo White , Geneva Mitchell , and Al Thompson . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent , and Schindell . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Great horror film !	This is a very good movie that stars the actors legendary Christopher Lee , Peter Cushing , and Telly Savalas ! All put on great performances . This is one heck of a film with a great and clever story , good music etc . I don not want to say anymore to spoil it but I recommend this movie to all horror and sci-fi fans ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This in My opinion is a good Three Stooges short . Vernon Dent , Fred Kelsey , Eddie Laughton , and John Tyrrell make appearances in this one . Laughton's character is similar like his other one in Cactus Makes Perfect in My opinion . This is a hilarious must see Three Stooges short and I recommend it !
Actually a really good film !	Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is a good film that has a good cast which includes Christina Applegate , Joanna Cassidy , John Getz , Josh Charles , Keith Coogan , Concetta Tomei , David Duchovny , Kimmy Robertson , Jayne Brook , Eda Reiss Merin , Robert Hy Gorman , Danielle Harris , Christopher Pettiet , Chris Claridge , Jeff Bollow , and Michael Kopelow ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Applegate and Cassidy are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by David Newman . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Christina Applegate , Joanna Cassidy , John Getz , Josh Charles , Keith Coogan , Concetta Tomei , David Duchovny , Kimmy Robertson , Jayne Brook , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedy , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good one !	Night of the Twisters is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Devon Sawa , Amos Crawley , John Schneider , Lori Hallier , Laura Bertram , David Ferry , Helen Hughes , Jhene Erwin , Alex Lastewka , Thomas Lastewka , Megan Kitchen , and Graham McPherson . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The special effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Devon Sawa , Amos Crawley , John Schneider , Lori Hallier , Laura Bertram , David Ferry , Helen Hughes , Jhene Erwin , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of My favorite Stooges shorts with Joe is none other than Quiz Whizz ! All appearing in this short are the beautiful Greta Thyssen , Gene Roth , Milton Frome , Tiny Brauer , and Emil Sitka ! There are so many funny parts here . This is a very hilarious short and I recommend it !
Scary alien movie !	The first time I saw this film it really scared Me ! The alien is very realistic and the scene where the scientist is operating on the alien's mate is disturbing but yet realistic . I don't want to go any more but I'll tell you this that if you like alien , sci-fi and horror films then check it out !
Great Program !	The Documentary show called A History of Crop Circles is great program hosted by Colin Andrews ! The program goes by another name of Alien Sign : The Message . I own the DVD . Colin Andrews investigates the phenomena of the Crop Circles and shows the people about the extraterrestrial activity . There are countless crop circles today and there has been for thousands of years . The programed also had about crop circles and more ! I believe the footage of these signs legit are real . This is really a great program . If you love Crop Circles , Aliens , UFOs , Crop Circles , and Documentaries this I strongly recommend this DVD !
Arguably the greatest film ever !	May Contain Some Spoilers . This comment is My opinions . I already commented of the wonderful epic but there just something I wanted to say . First I feel that this is the one of the greatest films ever and it is arguably the greatest film of all time and I feel that everything was perfect . The cast , the music , the sets , everything and the scenes are perfected with such emotional moments . One is that When Maximus returns home to find his family . Russell Crowe put everything he had into that scene ! The performances of the great actors Oliver Reed and Richard Harris was outstanding and Joaquin Phoenix was the perfect choice to play Emperor Commodus and what a performance and Connie Nielsen was such a smart choice . It was a treat to see Omid Djalili , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Ralf Moeller , Djimon Hounsou , Derek Jacobi , and Tommy Flanagan in one film ! One of the greatest things about this epic blockbuster is the music by great composer Hans Zimmer . During the scene when Commodus and Marcus Aurelius are together for the last time ( Patricide which it is called on the soundtrack which is track 7 ) the music plays during this scene and it fits the it perfectly and I believe that that is the greatest piece of music ever composed and I think this is Zimmer's greatest score ever and I don't think he'll be able to top it . Lisa Gerrard's singing in the film is beautiful ! Buy the soundtrack along with the second great album by Zimmer and Gerrard on Amazon . com for a low great price ! The second album I feel is even better than the first ! Ridley Scott's direction was great and I loved the fast past camera effort and the battles were so good and exciting ! That's all I wanted to say . I feel that Gladiator gets 10 stars and is one of the greatest films ever made ! If you have not seen this awesome movie yet then when you have a chance rent or even buy it because believe Me when you watch it you won't want to stop and you'll want to see it again and again . Its truly a special film and I Hope that everyone will be able to see the golithian epic !
Great Program !	The World at War Special Presentation : The Third Reich Series . The World at War was a very good show . It was hosted by Eric Porter . The show would commentate into the big wars such as World War I , World War II , and more ! This comment is for The Third Reich Series which consist of three volumes , they are Vol . 1 The New Regime , Vol . 2 Hitler's Master Plan , and Vol . 3 , A Nation Falls . The three volumes go through the important and truthful information like how it was back in Germany and how the wars were etc . The program interviews some people who had experiences during the this time talking about their stories and such . In the segments you see real footage including the German army and Adolf Hitler himself which is incredible in My opinion . All of the segments are real and show the battles and dead people . I think these segments were excellent and Eric Porter's narration is very good ! I am not sure in this series is still on television but if it is check it out because it was a good show ! I also recommend that you stop by Amazon . com and purchase all three tapes because of the real footage that they behold !
Its a great sea monster movie !	Deep Star Six is a very good sea monster movie ! Executive producers Mario Kassar and Andrew G . Vajna brings a great creature on screen ! The film has an unusual cast including Miguel Ferrer , Nancy Everhard , Cindy Pickett , Nia Peeples , Elya Baskin , Thom Bray and Ronn Carroll . The entire cast performed good and there is actually some funny lines in the movie . Miguel Ferrer is very good in this movie and he plays his crazy role very good ! The way the movie is made makes it seem epic . The score is greatly composed by Harry Manfredini . The monster is awesome ! I think the creature is quite neat looking and his roar is impressive . I liked how the creature was introduced ! The movie is directed by Sean S . Cunningham who he directs the movie just fine . Really the movie isn't disappointing and there is always something going on . If you love sea monster movies then Deep Star Six is a great one to watch now ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like director Sean S . Cunningham then I strongly recommend that you check out House I and House II : The Second Story . He produced those two films . They are two of My all time favorites especially the second one . Also Harry Manfredini composed two excellent scores for them as well ! If you like Miguel Ferrer then I recommend you see Hot Shots ! Part Deux and Stephen King's The Night Flier to see him in two other great performances ! If you like sea monster movies then I recommend that you see Jaws , The Abyss , Leviathan , Deep Rising , Sphere , Lake Placid and Deep Blue Sea !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Universal Soldier : The Return !	Universal Soldier : The Return is a good action packed sequel film that casts Jean-Claude Van Damme , Bill Goldberg , Michael Jai White , Heidi Schanz , Xander Berkeley , Kiana Tom , and Daniel von Bargen . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Van Damme was very good in the film as always . White and Berkeley were very good in this film , arguably their best performances . Bill Goldberg was excellent in this film . The action is really awesome and the fight scenes are really exciting . The film isn't as graphic as the prequel but its violent none the less ! The music by Don Davis is good . This is a good and thrilling film . If you like Jean-Claude Van Damme , Bill Goldberg , Michael Jai White , and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film !
The Panic Room is a good film !	The Panic Room is good movie . The intro and beginning credits was unusual but it was fantastic none the less ! Jodie Foster looked finer than ever ! Forest Whitaker was very good ! The Panic Room has good acting and some action . Its a good movie and if you want a intense film to see then see the Panic Room because its keeps you going through out the whole film !
Sudden Impact !	The Dirty Harry film Sudden Impact is arguably one of the best in the series ! Clint Eastwood was very good ! Sandra Locke and Pat Hingle was also good ! The woman villain was something else ! The Bulldog was cool ! Good music by Lalo Schifrin and the movie has very good graphic action ! Strongly recommended !
Another great Looney Tunes Feature !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Fantastic Film !	I , Robot is a great film that has a good cast which includes Will Smith , Bridget Moynahan , Alan Tudyk , James Cromwell , Bruce Greenwood , Adrian Ricard , Chi McBride , Jerry Wasserman , Fiona Hogan , Peter Shinkoda , Terry Chen , and David Haysom . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Smith is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The special effects is tremendous ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Marco Beltrami . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Will Smith , Bridget Moynahan , Alan Tudyk , James Cromwell , Bruce Greenwood , the rest of the cast in the film , Sci-Fi , Adeventure , Action , Thrillers , Adventure , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Excellent movie !	The Bone Collector is a very good movie ! I don't want to say to much to spoil it but the actors were very good . Denzel Washington was good as always . Angelina Jolie put on a great performance . Michael Rooker was good . Queen Latifah , Luis Guzmán , Mike McGlone , Leland Orser , and Ed O'Neill was in surprising roles ! I like how they showed close ups of the actors and views of the city . It was really neat . The score is tremendous by Craig Armstrong ! There are some other things to talk about here when it comes to the performances . Denzel Washington put on a one heck of a performance . It was so believable . Angelina Jolie which I think she is one of the greatest actresses ever in cinema history also put on a superb performance . I liked how she talked , the things she did such as getting in front of the train , the tears falling from her eyes , her smiling , and her interaction with Denzel Washington . Her character has so much personality ! In My opinion I think both should have been nominated for an Oscar ! Also Leland Orser acted very solidly . Another good mention of good acting in this film is by Michael Rooker and Ed O'Neill . I think that The Bone Collector is an excellent movie from start to finish ! I recommend every movie fan to watch The Bone Collector !
Great John Candy movie !	Armed and Dangerous is one of John Candy's best films ! Eugene Levy , Meg Ryan , Brion James , Robert Loggia , James Tolkan , Kenneth McMillan , and Tom Lister Jr . were all good . I loved the performance Lister and Candy did together ! I don ' t like to make fun of anybody but it was so funny every time Candy would make fun of him and I loved Lister doing his Zeus Trademark in the film ! If are a fan of John Candy and the above cast mention and love hilarious action packed comedies with good music then I strongly recommend that you watch this classic movie soon !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Great one !	I like this one and this is one of My favorite ones with the Three Stooges ! I think Christine McIntyre was as good always ! All of the actors were good which included Herbert Evans , Charles Knight , Jimmy Logan , Theodore Lorch , and George Pembroke ! I like the spooky theme of this one like some of the Three Stooges shorts ! It has a good mystery to it ! The Stooges especially Moe are hilarious in Hot Scots ! One of the funniest parts in the short is when Moe and Christine McIntyre were dancing and she was giving the Earl's treasures to Theodore Lorch in disguise ! One other part in it is when the Stooges introduce themselves to the Earl and Shemp is getting knocked on the head by Moe's cane ! The Stooges Hot Scots is a hilarious spooky Three Stooges Short ! Like some other spooky type Three Stooges shorts this is a great Three Stooges short to watch over again around Halloween time !
Grips , Grunts and Groans !	This funny Stooge short is really good . I like the how Curly performs as the wrestler . The looks he gets on his face are unforgettable and the sparing stuff he wears is so funny . This is a great one to check out !
Good one !	When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Excellent program !	The Documentary show called UFOs : It has begun is great program hosted by the legendary Rod Serling and Burgess Meredith ! The program goes by another name of Alien Abductions and Sightings . I own the DVD and its weird that the title of the DVD is UFO's There Here but when the viewer watches it its titled Alien Abductions and Sightings ! Also on the DVD is another program titled Evidence of the Arrival . Anyway the show has many interesting segments of extra-terrestrial activity such as hundreds of UFOs and alien abductions . The real Betty Hill was interviewed here who her and her husband Barney were abducted by alien beings . She explained about the visitors and the sign that one of them showed her . The programed also had about crop circles and more ! The footage of the UFOs look legit to Me . This was really a treat that Rod Serling and Burgess Meredith hosted this program . If you love aliens , UFOs , Crop Circles , Rod Serling , Bergis Meredith , and Documentaries this I strongly recommend this DVD !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! I think this Three Stooges short is a very good one and really is an underrated one in My opinion . Judy Malcolm , Ethelreda Leopold , and Doris Houck are in it . Also there are appearances by Symona Boniface and Al Thompson . The Stooges are very good in this one . Curly is very different and very funny as well . There are many hilarious things in this one . If you are a Three Stooges fan watch this one !
Great film !	Contact is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Jodie Foster , David Morse , Matthew McConaughey , Tom Skerritt , John Hurt , James Woods , Geoffrey Blake , William Fichtner , Sami Chester , Timothy McNeil , Laura Elena Surillo , Rob Lowe , Angela Bassett , Jake Busey , Kathleen Kennedy , Jay Leno , Geraldo Rivera , Larry King , Bryant Gumbel , with Bill Clinton , and Adolf Hitler ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Foster is really excellent in this film . I thought that she performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed is very good . The music great by Alan Silvestri . Great directing by Robert Zemeckis ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Jodie Foster , David Morse , Matthew McConaughey , Tom Skerritt , John Hurt , James Woods , Rob Lowe , the rest of the cast in the film , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Great one !	This program is amazing one indeed . Its basically the life story of Steve Irwin ! He talks about his parents , his wife Terri , how he met her and such and she also explains how she met him and her feelings for him ! It also shows their friends and the crew that works with them on the road and at the zoo . It shows how the rescue animals and how they admit them into the shelters . Its a great show and If you like the Crocodile Hunter show or have a child or children that wants to learn about the great reptiles and other animals of the world then I strongly recommend that you to watch The Crocodile Hunter's Croc Files ! on the Animal Planet Channel today !
Great movie !	I think Stop ! Or My Mom Will Shoot is a very good movie . What the heck is so bad and wrong with it ? It has a very good cast which includes Sylvester Stallone , Estelle Getty , JoBeth Williams , Roger Rees , Martin Ferrero , Gailard Sartain , J . Kenneth Campbell , Richard Schiff , and Ving Rhames ! I thought it was weird that Martin Ferrero and Richard Schiff were in this film together because later on they would be in two Jurassic Park films only not together . Why is this film on the IMDb Bottom 100 List # 64 ? The film is produced by Ivan Reitman and is directed by Roger Spottiswoode ! The music is very good by excellent composer Alan Silvestri ! I think this movie is so hilarious . Sylvester Stallone and Estelle Getty worked so good together . I think this film is really funny plus this film reminded Me a bit of the classic movie Kindergarten Cop ! I strongly recommend this movie so do yourself a favor and ignore all of the bad comments and watch this extremely funny film today !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Hank Bell , Stanley Blystone , Lew Davis , George Gray , Ethan Laidlaw , Eddie Laughton , Theodore Lorch , Sam Lufkin , Hank Mann , Joe Palma , and Cy Schindell ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . Look for Blystone's archive footage that is in this one in the 1954 Shemp classic Pals and Gals ! I strongly recommend both of these Three Stooges shorts !
Good film ! Mulkey is very good in this film !	Psychopath AKA Twist of Fate is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Mädchen Amick , Don Jordan , Chris Mulkey , Bruce Dinsmore , Lynne Adams , Tara Slone , Cas Anvar , James Bradford , David Francis , Sam Stone , Russell Yuen , Peter Farbridge , Frederic Smith , Manuel Tadros , Arthur Holden , Peter Colver , and Karen Elkin ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Mädchen Amick , Don Jordan , and Chris Mulkey are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Mädchen Amick , Don Jordan , Chris Mulkey , Bruce Dinsmore , Lynne Adams , Tara Slone , Cas Anvar , James Bradford , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Horror , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great action movie !	This film is great with good action and acting ! Bruce Willis is a very good action hero . You never know what is going to happen next in this film ! The music by Michael Kamen is good . If you like terrorist films with tons of action then this film is for you !
Good horror film with an excellent demon !	Headhunter is is good horror movie that stars Kay Lenz and Wayne Crawford ! The killings are gruesome ! It has good music and the Headhunter demon is very neat ! it wasn't suppose to be funny but I thought the scene with the preacher was funny and it seemed like his voice was dubbed ! I was funny when he said " I'm never coming back to this ( curses ) river again ! I feel this movie needs more attention that it has received ! I don't want to spoil it for you in case you haven't seen the movie and if you haven't rent it because its a good horror movie !
Great one !	The performances by the Stooges are perfect in this short subject . I really love it when Curly sings ! The dogs are funny as well ! The story is very good and is one of My favorites Three Stooges episode ! This is a good one to see !
Mummies : Frozen in Time !	This is a very good video . This program aired on TLC and I believe the Discovery Channel a few years ago . I think that this program is a very interesting and informal one and it is narrated very good by Mike McGlone . It shows many mummified people that are hundreds and thousands of years old from all over the world including Egypt , South America , and the United States to name just a few of the countries these mummies are from . I think it is amazing the way the ancient Egyptians mummified their people . There is one thing I dislike in this program and that is the donated bodies where a scientist displays the bodies as an art . Though in My opinion to watch this you must like to see mummies and interesting things because all of this is real and these mummies really look like the way they do so if you like to see real mummies and to know their origins then check out this amazing feature today !
Good Crocodilian film with a good cast !	The film is very good and funny at times . Bill Pullman , Bridget Fonda , Brenden Gleeson , and Oliver Platt are all good . Betty White is excellent and I just couldn't believe all the things she said and I thought it was hilarious ! The attacks by the Crocodile is well done . Especially the one with the bear and in fact when the bear got it I just couldn't believe it . Unbelievable scene ! This is a very good monster Crocodilian film with a good ending to check out !
The 6th Day !	The 6th day is a great action film and in My opinion is one of Arnold's best films ! It also stars Tony Goldwyn , Robert Duvall , Michael Rooker , Michael Rapaport , Sarah Wynter , and Wendy Crewson ! The acting by all of these actors is really good especially by Goldwyn and listen to his voice . He really is a good villain . The action is really incredible and a lot of the scenes are really cool ! The dialog is really smart in this picture . The music by Trevor Rabin is really good . If you love Arnold and the other cast members and love action film then I strongly recommend The 6th Day ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : Here are some other Arnold recommendations : Conan the Barbarian , Conan the Destroyer , Red Sonja , The Terminator , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day , Terminator 3 : The Rise of the Machines , The Running Man , Raw Deal , Commando , Predator , Total Recall , Kindergarten Cop , Last Action Hero , True Lies , Eraser , Jingle All the Way , Batman and Robin , End of Days , and Collateral Damage !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is Tassels in the Air . In this short are Symona Boniface , Vernon Dent , Bess Flowers , Bud Jamison , Victor Travers , and Leo White . The acting by these actors are good especially by Dent , Jamison , White , and Flowers , and Schindell . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Batman Returns ! ! !	Minor SpoilersFor three years Batman fans were waiting for a sequel and this is it ! It has the Penguin and Catwoman which are brought to the big screen greatly ! Michael Keaton reprises his role for the second times as Batman sadly the last time of the four films . His peformance is just as good as before . Danny DeVito performs good as the Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer is excellent as Catwoman . She is so neat just not as Catwoman but as Selina Kyle aswell . She is such a great woman ! The film starts off with a bang and battle scenes between the circus and Batman is just excellent ! I just loved it when they came out of the giant Christmas present and terrorized everyone ! I recommend all Batman and action movie fans that hasn't seen Batman Returns to this soon !
Great animated movie !	Daffy Duck's Quackbusters is a cute and funny movie ! It consist of several older cartoons . The short animated feature before the movie is really good . There's just about everything in this movie and its great for kinds and adults . Its perfect to watch around the Halloween season ! The box it comes in is really coo1 ! f you haven't already seen Daffy's movie then check it out ! You'll quack up !
Excellent film !	The 1978 version of the Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a great film that has an excellent cast which includes Donald Sutherland , Brooke Adams , Jeff Goldblum , Veronica Cartwright , Leonard Nimoy , Art Hindle , Don Siegel , and Robert Duvall ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Suthereland and Goldblum are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . Cartwright also has an excellent performance . The mystery is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good and great direction by Philip Kaufman . The music is good by Denny Zeitlin . The special effects are top notch ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is an excellent film . If you like Donald Sutherland , Brooke Adams , Jeff Goldblum , Veronica Cartwright , Leonard Nimoy , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Thrillers , Sci-Fi , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Evolution , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Kenneth MacDonald is very good as the villain or the bad doctor . Jean Willes is very good to and she is different in this one and she looks great as well ! Also in this Three Stooges short is Fred Kelsey , ' Snub ' Pollard , Cy Schindell , Wade Crosby , and Rocky Woods . This is a very funny Three Stooges short especially the scenes where The Stooges are acting like doctors ! I recommend this one !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Dick Tracy is a classic !	They couldn't have made Dick Tracy any better ! With a all star cast , great acting , tons of action , great villains and characters and most of them are from the comics which they look great in this movie , and a great double score / soundtrack by Danny Elfman and Madonna makes Dick Tracy a classic ! I saw this when it came out in the theatre and it was awesome ! I just love this movie and I hope there will be a sequel soon !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts with Curly ! All Appearing in this short are Beatrice Blinn , Symona Boniface , Bess Flowers , Dorothy Granger , John Ince , and Bud Jamison ! This one is so hilarious ! Curly has a great performance here and in My opinion its one of his best . There are two others similar like this one called Ants in the Pantry and Pest Man Wins ! I strongly recommend all three of these Three Stooges shorts !
Great Van Damme movie ! Arguably his best !	Sudden Death just might be Jean-Claude Van Damme's best movie to date along with Hard Target , Bloodsport , Lionheart , and Cyborg ! Powers Boothe is great and there is always action , great fights and interesting moments in the film ! The film is very satisfying and entertaining and recommend for big time action fans !
Excellent sequel !	This one is really good but it is sometimes sad . Everybody is back again . Seeing Jabba at his palace is really a treat . What a party ! Some people don't like the Ewoks but I don't know why , I think their're cute . The evil Emperor shows off his awesome power in this film . This is a good sequel . Note : The special edition has added scenes , special effects , sounds , and creatures . To ME the highlight of of this special edition is more scenes of Jabba's Palace with the music and dancers . The ending is also quite different .
An unbelievable film !	This movie follows very close to the happenings of the true story . The film is very realistic and it is some what disturbing . Barbara Hershey and Ron Silver were good . I believe this happened . Some viewers complained about the nudity and I myself dislike it but I think it was needed to show how the evil force did its bad work on that poor lady . If you like spooky films especially true horror films and are able to see the Entity then do see it because its one that you don't want to miss !
Awesome movie !	Delta Force 2 : Operation Stranglehold or Delta Force II : The Colombian Connection is in My opinion a very good action film ! I thought Chuck Norris was really good in it . His fights in the film are awesome ! Billy Drago was tremendous as the villain ! His performance was a really a dandy ! He made his character have a great personality which it made the role very interesting . Also he made it where you just hate him ! Richard Jaeckel , John P . Ryan , and Dick Warlock also appear in the movie ! The action is really good and realistic and the fighting scenes are also realistic . Some parts in the film are a tad rough . The scenes like the skydiving and Chuck Norris ' exhibition scenes are really caught on film quite well and its some of the best I've seen in a movie ! I think that this is film is a great one and its arguably better than the first ! If you like Norris and Drago and the prequel then Delta Force 2 : Operation Stranglehold is something else to watch !
Excellent documentary !	This is a special documentary located on the Legend : Ultimate Edition DVD set ! Many guests such as Vic Armstrong , Billy Barty , Rob Bottin , Tim Curry , Assheton Gorton , William Hjortsberg , Cork Hubbert , Arnon Milchan , Ann Mollo , Robert Picardo , Alice Playten , Terry Rawlings , Peter Robb-King , Mia Sara , Ridley Scott , Sid Sheinberg , and Alex Thomson all talk about the history of this film and all the things they had to to make it so wonderful ! Some of the facts they talk about are unbelievable ! This was really a treat watch to see many crew members and actors and actresses talk about the subject of Legend ! Legend is in My opinion one of the greatest films of all time and there will never , ever be another film like it ! Its one of My all time favorites as well ! If you are a huge fan of this classic 80's film like I am then I strongly recommend that you head over to Amazon . com and buy the Legend : Ultimate Edition DVD set today !
One of the greatest westerns ever !	Open Range is in My opinion a great and fascinating western movie ! It has a good cast includes Robert Duvall , Kevin Costner , Annette Bening , Michael Gambon , Michael Jeter , Diego Luna , James Russo , Abraham Benrubi , Dean McDermott , and Kim Coates ! There is very good acting by most of the people in this film . In My opinion some of the best acting in this movie came from Gambon , Russo , and Coates . The music by Michael Kamen is very good . The storms were really neat . People expecting a bunch of action will be disappointed I think but near the end there is an explosive gun fight which is one of the best gun fight scenes I have ever seen ! This is a must see film ! If you are a fan of any or all of the actors in the film and love westerns then I strongly recommend that you watch this great movie !
Great one !	I thought that the characters were really neat and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show all have great personalities . in My opinion these characters are some of the best ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion action packed which that is what makes the show good . There are so many characters to like If you like the other classic 1980s ' animated cartoons like The GoBots , M . A . S . K . , Transformers , C . O . P . S . and many others then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
One of the greatest animated features ever !	I am a big fan of the Street Fighter II video games . If anyone wanted an alternate source for the title other than the game and the live action movie then this is your great alternative ! All of the classic characters are in it ! M . Bison , Ryu , Ken , Blanka , Zangief , T . Hawk , Chun-Li , Sagat , Vega , Guile , E . Honda , Fei Long , Dhalsim , Cammy , DeeJay , Vega , and Balrog ! In My opinion all of the characters look exactly like they do in the video game . The male characters look super and the female fighters look absolutely gorgeous ! The animation is so crisp and clean ! I have read that are two versions but I have seen the American version . This film may not be suitable for youngsters because of the minor language such as " hell " and " damn " and blood coming from the characters ' wounds . Another is a very surprising scene where Chun-Li is taking a shower and then she puts on a night gown type shirt and some underwear and when she fights Vega you see this and even though that this may be uncalled for in an animated feature but I thought it was cute and animated very realistically . More on that in a second . Another thing was the music . Really music though out the entire film ! M . Bison and his men were really introduced properly . It was like this was a real movie . One thing to explain is when Chun-Li was in her apartment minding her own business after she got out of the shower and Vega just came barging in . I really liked the fight between Chun-Li and Vega ! That scene was really animated well . Another is near the end when M . Bison , Ryu , and Ken are fighting . I believe that the fight scenes in this feature are some of the greatest fight scenes I've seen and I'm commenting on an animated movie ! The fighting in the animated feature is simply amazing and I really liked how realistic everything was ! If you like the Street Fighter II video games and the Street Fighter live action movie with Jean Claude-Van Damme and the late great Raul Julia ( which by the way I think Julia's role as M . Bison was arguably his greatest ever ! ) then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie now !
Great one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Vagabond Loafers is a funny Three Stooges short with Shemp ! There is another short with alternate scenes called Scheming Schemers . Christine McIntyre and Kenneth MacDonald are really neat a couple . They were also a couple in the two shorts with alternates scenes called Crime on Their Hands and Hot Ice ! Symona Boniface , Emil Sitka , Dudley Dickerson , and Herbert Evans also appear in this short ! This is great short with Shemp !
Great sequel to the masterpiece , Superman !	Superman II is in my opinion the best sequel of the Superman movie series . Christopher Reeves and Gene Hackman as always is great , Sarah Douglas , Terence Stamp , Jack O'Halloran are all good but Stamp's performance was awesome ! This is my favorite Superman film of the the series .
AVP : Alien Vs . Predator is one outstanding film !	One of the most anticipated films in history is AVP : Alien Vs . Predator ! After many years of waiting for this ultimate feature film it finally arrives in the year 2004 ! Was it as good as the original Alien saga & Predator saga ( Alien - 1979 , Aliens - 1986 , Alien 3 - 1992 , Alien Resurrection - 1997 , Predator - 1987 , Predator 2 - 1990 ) ? I think so in My opinion . Did it live up to the hype ? Yes ! Was the film what I expected ? It was actually much more than what I had expected . Was the musical score great ? Heck yes ! Does newcomer composer Harald Kloser have a winning score like the other films do ? OH YES ! Does Paul W . S . Anderson deliver great direction ? He delivers it all ! I am I happy with the film overall ? A big yes ! Why ? I will explain further as I go on . The film has one of the most different castings including Lance Henriksen , Sanaa Lathan , Raoul Bova , Ewen Bremner , Colin Salmon , Tommy Flanagan , Ian Whyte and Tom Woodruff Jr . Henricksen has now been in three Alien films and now a Predator film ! An interesting thing is now that he has been in Alien , Predator , and Terminator films which is really unusual . Readers of Dark Horse comics will now what I'm talking about . Anyway Lance acts very good in this film . Lathan and Bova also are pretty good in it . In the film Bova reminded a lot of actor Olivier Martinez . Tommy Flanagan was also good and he looked quite different in this picture . Everyone else is good . Since Kevin Peter Hall is sadly no longer with us his presence is missed very much as the Predator but the new Predator played by the huge Ian Whyte plays this classic role very well and he has a very convincing performance as a Predator . The Predators looks as great as ever ! They all have different personalities especially the played by Whyte . As for the Aliens they too look as great as ever ! The Alien Queen looks as awesome as ever and she really gets respect in this one . I was so disappointed how the Alien Queen was in Alien Resurrection . Fans of this Alien character will admire her in this film ! The story of the film is really good . I am really surprised about the theories in this . Honestly I believe these theories and in My opinion there may be some truth in this film . The special effects are just tremendous ! I was amazed by how realistic everything is ! The action is also tremendous and I love the camera work . It was outstanding to see the Aliens and Predators together ! The musical score by Harald Kloser is just wonderful . He doesn't use any of the music in the previous films by Jerry Goldsmith , James Horner , Alan Silvestri etc . but he has his own themes and such . I just love the theme he composed and the other music such as the alien fights . Another thing I just really love about it is the magical sounding in some places . I recommend that you do what I did buy the score from Amazon . com . Its truly a wonderful score . The creature effects by Alec Gillis and Tom Woodruff Jr . is just as great as the previous works in the previous films . The direction by Paul W . S . Anderson is just great . I love the way he made this film . He is one of My favorite directors and if there is a sequel to this film or one of the titled characters I would love for him to direct it . Well , this is My opinion of the film . I am pleased with it even though the film goes by very fast but I think that's because the film is action packed and just that great ! If you are a hardcore Alien and Predator film fan , Alien and Predator comic fan , and / or fan of the two in general and like Lance Henriksen , Sanaa Lathan , Raoul Bova , Tommy Flanagan , the rest of the cast , Paul W . S . Anderson , and want to hear some of the greatest music then I strongly recommend that you head over to you local video or department store or stop by Amazon . com and buy the DVD or VHS today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Evolution , Signs , Silent Warnings , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT
Great film !	Cool as Ice is a great film that has a great cast including Vanilla Ice , Kristin Minter , Deezer D , John Haymes Newton , Naomi Campbell , Kevin Hicks , Allison Dean , Sydney Lassick , Dody Goodman , Candy Clark , Michael Gross , Victor DiMattia , Brooke Alexander , and Jack McGee . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and comedy is great . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Stanley Clarke . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Vanilla Ice , Kristin Minter , John Haymes Newton , Naomi Campbell , Candy Clark , Michael Gross , Jack McGee , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedy , Action , Romance , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Spooks !	On a local Television station I saw this funny Three Stooges in true 3D ! There was another one in 3D called Pardon My Backfire ! Spooks ! was really already in 3D like when Moe would do his stuff like kicking Shemp or when one of the bad guys did something it would come right into the screen ! What I mean by true 3D is that it had the color like the famous colors ! It was a cool experience ! Spooks ! is a good one ! Philip Van Zandt and Tom Kennedy played their parts very good ! The gorilla is funny ! It has a very spook nature like some of the other Three Stooges shorts which like them , Spooks ! is great to watch around Halloween time ! Like the other 3D short , this too has the different introduction with the stooges doing it live instead of the usual intro ! With the 3D experience or without it Spooks ! is a very funny Three Stooges to short watch !
Kangaroo Jack is one hilarious film !	Kangaroo Jack is an excellent and funny film in My opinion that stars Jerry O'Connell , Anthony Anderson , Estella Warren , Christopher Walken , and Marton Csokas ! All of these actors were great especially Warren Walken ! Csokas was exceptionally well as a colorful villain and he looked very neat ! O'Connell and Anderson make a great team ! Jack the Kangaroo was very cute and looked realistic . That was awesome when he was being chased and he was hopping ! The camera followed excellently ! The film is hilarious ! I was laughing non-stop and I just couldn't believe how hilarious the rest room scene on the airliner was ! The music by Trevor Rabin was good and the songs were good as well . This is really one of the funniest films I have ever seen ! If you like the cast mentioned above and comedies with action then I strongly recommend that you watch this unbelievably funny movie called Kangaroo Jack today !
Good movie !	Babe is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Christine Cavanaugh , Miriam Margolyes , Danny Mann , Hugo Weaving , Miriam Flynn , Russi Taylor , Evelyn Krape , Michael Edward-Stevens , Charles Bartlett , Paul Livingston , Roscoe Lee Browne , and James Cromwell . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Christine Cavanaugh , Miriam Margolyes , Danny Mann , Hugo Weaving , Miriam Flynn , Russi Taylor , Evelyn Krape , Michael Edward-Stevens , Charles Bartlett , Paul Livingston , Roscoe Lee Browne , and James Cromwell , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Drama , Family , Comedy and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Great action packed film !	Dead Heat is one of the most different action films that has a great cast includes Treat Williams , Joe Piscopo , Lindsay Frost , Darren McGavin , Vincent Price , Clare Kirkconnell , Robert Picardo , Professor Toru Tanaka , Shane Black , and Dick Miller ! The acting by all of these actors is very good especially by Williams . Piscopo , and McGavin ! I thought the action was awesome and the horror was good . The movie is filmed good . The music is great by Ernest Troost . Great directing Mark Goldblatt . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good non-stop action 80s film ! If you like Treat Williams , Joe Piscopo , Darren McGavin , Vincent Price , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Science Fiction , Horror , Thrillers , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
All week of BTTF II on the Starz ! Channel comments !	Back to the Future is a great movie and it is part of a great trilogy . Many people may not like the time travel movies but I do and BTTF trilogy is the movies for Me . I just love the fact that one of My favorite actors Christopher Lloyd is in all three of them and I just love the way he is in them and not to mention Michael J . Fox , Thomas F . Wilson and most of the others are in the three films . Part II continues where part I left off greatly ! This film takes place in the future and that's all I'M gonna tell because I don't want to spoil anything . BTTF part II is great ! I came a cross the week showing of Back to the Future Part II on Starz ! and yet I can't believe that they had it on this long every night at 1 : 05 but by watching it this much it made Me realize to pay attention to the main characters / actors are and I think they all should have won an award especially Thomas F . Wilson . I just love his acting as the many characters he plays greatly ! He deserves much credit ! I just love the relationship between the Doc and Marty . Christopher Lloyd is one of My favorite actors of all time and I just love his character and Michael J . Fox is one good actor himself ! I have always loved the Back To The Future trilogy but now I have a high respect for it especially for this one . Its one of the smartest , most entertaining , and one of the greatest series ever ! I recommend it to everyone ! I came a cross the week showing of Back to the Future Part II on Starz ! and yet I can't believe that they had it on this long every night at 1 : 05 ( / 03 - / 03 and as of this writing sadly its over ) but by watching it this much it made Me realize to pay attention to the main and other characters / actors and I think they all should have won an award especially Thomas F . Wilson . I just love his acting as the many characters he plays greatly ! I think Griff is so cool , old Biff is really smart , alternate Biff is really great villain if you can call him that , and young Biff is just as cool as Griff ! Biff's gang ( young and older played by Billy Zane , J . J . Cohen Casey Siemaszko ) is funny and Griff's gang ( played by Ricky Dean Logan , Spike , Jason Scott Lee ) are really cool especially Spike ! Elisabeth Shue's Jennifer Parker is really good and yet different than Claudia Wells ' Jennifer and it really hard for Me to decide who I like the most as I like how they both performed ! I just love the the relationship between the Doc and Marty . Christopher Lloyd is one of My favorite actors of all time and I just love his character and Michael J . Fox is one good actor himself ! I have always loved the Back To The Future trilogy but now I have a high respect for it especially for this one . Its one of the smartest , most entertaining , enjoyable and one of the greatest series ' ever and this movie here is one of the best ! Classic film making ! I recommend it to everyone ! Movie Nuttball's Note : During the scene where young and old Biff are in the car garage and old Biff turns old the radio . Listen to the voice of the announcer , its John Erwin the voice of the original and classic Prince Adam / He-Man of the great He-Man and the Masters of the Universe animated series ! Another scene where in 2015 Marty McFly plays the old classic ARCADE game Wild Gunman look for a very young Elijah Wood of the epic Lord of the Rings series . According to the IMDb Back to the Future Part II was his first movie ! Look for Charles " Roger Rabbit " Fleischer in this film !
A very good and exciting Dirty Harry movie !	The Dead Pool is a good action packed Dirty Harry film ! Clint Eastwood was good as always ! Liam Neeson was excellent ! Jim Carrey was very good ! Lot of action it the film is never boring ! The car chase scene was really cool ! Lalo Schifrin's score is excellent ! If you like Dirty Harry I recommend you see this great and final sequel !
Flight of the Phoenix !	Flight of the Phoenix is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Dennis Quaid , Tyrese , Giovanni Ribisi , Miranda Otto , Tony Curran , Sticky Fingaz , Jacob Vargas , Hugh Laurie , Scott Michael Campbell , Kevork Malikyan , Jared Padalecki , Paul Ditchfield , Martin Hindy , and Bob Brown . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Quaid is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills and action is really good and some of it is surprising . The Special Effects are great ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Marco Beltrami . Great directing by John Moore . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Dennis Quaid , Tyrese , Giovanni Ribisi , Miranda Otto , Tony Curran , Sticky Fingaz , Jacob Vargas , Hugh Laurie , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Adenture , Thrillers , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Classic !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you go to Amazon . com and purchase this this feature on tape today !
Good film !	The Manchurian Candidate is a good film that has a good cast which includes Denzel Washington , Liev Schreiber , Jon Voight , Meryl Streep , Charles Napier , Dean Stockwell , Ted Levine , and Miguel Ferrer . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Rachel Portman and Wyclef Jean . Great direction by Jonathan Demme . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Denzel Washington , Liev Schreiber , Jon Voight , Meryl Streep , Charles Napier , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Action , Sci-Fi , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Fantastic movie ! Batman next to Superman is the real super hero !	This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . When I saw Batman in the theatre is was such a thrill . The movie is dark which is normal for director Tim Burton and the film is just made perfectly in MY opinion . Jack Nicholson was perfect as the Joker and Michael Keaton was perfect as Batman . Batman is just so action packed and it has such a great atmosphere . Awesome music by Danny Elfman too ! This along with The Planet of the Apes , Beetlejuice , and Sleepy Hollow in MY opinion are Tim Burton's best films . Notes : Batman has three sequels , Batman Returns ( Tim Burton ) , Batman Forever , and Batman and Robin . Them three film are very good but the first Batman is MY favorite . The following is MY thoughtsI just don't understand how the people are for another comic book film called Spider Man . It is like the people dumped Batman . Like Batman is nothing compared to Spider Man . Just look the bucks SM made . That is what I'M talking about here . Times and people have really changed : (
Do you know who done it ?	Another good Stooge short ! Christine McIntyre is so lovely and evil and the same time in this one ! She is such a great actress ! The Stooges are very good and especially Shemp and Larry ! This to is a good one to watch around Autumn time !
The Wolf Man is great film !	The Wolf Man is an excellent Universal Monsters classic ! Lon Chaney Jr . is arguably MY favorite actor . I just love how he performs as Larry Talbot thru out the film . Nervous , curious , kind , and aggressive and when he becomes the Wolf Man in MY opinion he performs this flawless ! The Wolf Man has fantastic settings and the movie is just marvelous ! He all also has performed as Larry Talbot / The Wolf Man in a few other great movies which are very good . This is all horror fan's wolf man / werewolf movie to check out ! By the way , Here is a tip to action figure collectors . Make sure you pick the detail Wolf Man and Larry Talbot action figures from Sideshow Toys , They look just like they do in the film !
Good film !	Escape from Sobibor is a very good and action packed film that has a good cast including Rutger Hauer , Alan Arkin , Joanna Pacula , Hartmut Becker , Jack Shepherd , Emil Wolk , Simon Gregor , Linal Haft , Jason Norman , Robert Gwilym , Eli Nathenson , Kurt Raab , Eric P . Caspar , Hugo Bower , and Klaus Grünberg . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Georges Delerue . Great direction by Jack Gold . The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very thrilling film . If you like Rutger Hauer , Alan Arkin , Joanna Pacula , Hartmut Becker , Jack Shepherd , Emil Wolk , Simon Gregor , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , War , Dramas , and interesting True Stories then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
A great Godzilla classic !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good . I love how the narration and interviewing is in the film . I think the way Godzilla looks in this film is good . I love it when he roars and moves his tail and claps . As for his enemy King Kong , he too is awesome . He is very powerful and I like it when he roars . The fights between the two monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! In My opinion this one is a classic ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what i did and buy King Kong vs . Godzilla today !
Great film !	I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are like the hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Another great sequel !	Star Trek III starts where part II left off ! The cast is great as always but Christopher Lloyd is awesome as the villain ! Lloyd is one of my favorite actors and he play his part just wonderful ! The Music by James Horner is nearly identical to the Star Trek II : Wrath of Khan prequel which the music is is some of the best ever composed in my opinion ! Star Trek III - The Search for Spock is a great addition to the Star Trek feature film series !
This a great little feature and Judd Hirsch's performance was great !	I've always like this little Halloween movie . Its funny and has good acting . Judd Hirsch really put on a good performance as Count Dracula . Henry Gibson was very good as Igor and Mariette Hartley was good as the Witch . John Schuck was good . If you ever come across this feature on TV or anywhere especially around Halloween time see it because its a good one !
Great documentary ! The special features on the DVD are really sweet especially the Photo Gallery !	The Documentary program called Crop Circles : Quest for Truth is great program ! Colin Andrews and many others investigates the phenomena of the Crop Circles and shows the people talking about the extraterrestrial activity and many of the people express their feelings and opinions on what they they really are . There are countless crop circles today and there has been for thousands of years . The programed has many , many beautiful crop circles and more ! I believe the footage of these signs are legit and are real . This is really a great program . If you love Crop Circles , Aliens , UFOs , and Documentaries this I strongly recommend that you go to Amazon . com and purchase this DVD ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : On the DVD there are many special features a special Photo Gallery which is not your normal gallery as it is live shots shown from the a chopper with some of the greatest music playing to fit the spectacular signs Also other features includes Colin Andrews talking about the CIA , Helecopters and the mysterious Balls of Light , interviews with the director William Gazecki and more !
Very funny Three Stooges Short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts and its with Shemp ! The beautiful Connie Cezan appears in this and she is great in this short ! Also appearing is good performances are Benny Rubin , Ferris Taylor , Phil Arnold , Murray Alper , and Suzanne Ridgeway . The story is very good and The Stooges are very funny . I recommend this short !
A good Batman movie !	When Joel Shumacher got a hold of the Batman franchise he did it well I think . It brought a new thing into the Batman saga . I admit I like Michael Keaton better than Val Kilmer as Bruce Wayne / Batman and Tommy Lee Jones was excellent as Two-Face and Jim Carrey was very good as the Riddler . There is much action and the score is good . It may not be as good as the first Batman but it is still a good film !
Great John Carpenter film !	John Carpenter's Starman is a wonderful film ! Jeff Bridges and Karen Allen are really good in this movie ! The beginning is scary and the film is never boring and its very in interesting and yet sad and the same moment . It has great effects and a good ending ! If you like alien films then check Starman today because it is a fantastic movie !
Great film !	Ray is a great film that has a great cast including Jamie Foxx , Kerry Washington , Regina King , Clifton Powell , Harry J . Lennix , Bokeem Woodbine , Aunjanue Ellis , Sharon Warren , C . J . Sanders , Curtis Armstrong , Richard Schiff , Larenz Tate , Terrence Dashon Howard , David Krumholtz , Wendell Pierce , Chris Thomas King , Thomas Jefferson Byrd , Rick Gomez , Denise Dowse , Mike Pniewski , Warwick Davis , and big Kurt Fuller ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Foxx is just great the legendary singer ! Woodbine and Fuller are very good as well . The emotion and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Craig Armstrong ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very entertaining film . If you like Jamie Foxx , Kerry Washington , Regina King , Clifton Powell , Harry J . Lennix , Bokeem Woodbine , Aunjanue Ellis , Sharon Warren , C . J . Sanders , Kurt Fuller , the rest of the cast in the film , Drama , Music , Action , and interesting and entertaining true stories then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Psycho , The truest classic and one of the best movies of all !	Psycho , A true classic , is the classic of all classic movies in my opinion . The music is simple but yet some of the best ever composed ! The acting and sets and everything else couldn't be any better and I love the end !
The Fly -	The Fly series is a remarkable one that makes sence , if a scientist actually had a teleportation pod or some typ of machine this is the way it would happen n real life . The movies are jam packed with great acting , action , effects , superb horror and excellent gore . Both movies are very unpredictable and very scary and both films follow right after the other and both main cast in The Fly / Fly II have love interests ( Fly I , Goldblum and Davis , Fly II , Stotlz and Zuniga ) which is pretty cool . All in all The Fly series is a fantastic series of the 80s ( which was a great decade I might add ) . In MY opinion there will never be movies like this again , they are classics , a real thrilling horror series . When the last time you got scared of a movie ? ? ? Heres a tip : DON'T WATCH THEM IN THE DARK ! ! ! The Fly part 1 has a great promo in the beginning with great effects . When you first see Jeff Goldblum and Gena Davis your like wow . Ever since you first see them in the film you follow them like glue , you really get attached to them and you even get to know John Getz and begain to get attached to him aswell even though he Ronnie's ( Davis ) ex-boyfriend and a fart . As the movie goes on you wonder what is going to happen with the teleportation pods . Will they work , if so what will happen ? I won't tell too much here but when Goldblum turns into the Fly , prepare to be shocked ! By the way , listen to the music score by Howard Shore , if you can buy it , it fits the Fly perfectly ! Overal The Fly is a great picture , a bit sad but it s very exciting . I rate it ( 4 ) four stars
Excellent 007 film ! ! !	The Bond film is really a good one ! I like the woman character who wants revenge and joins 007 . The beginning is cool . Roger Morre , Julian Glover , and Topol are good in this one ! This arguably the best 007 James Bond film and if you like Bond check it out !
Great one !	I am a huge Godzilla fan , I grew up with Godzilla , I just love seeing this awesome monster just destroy cities and fighting other monsters . I like his enemies as well but Godzilla is the Icon ! This Godzilla film is a great one . The story is very good and I really love the way Godzilla looks in this film . I love it when he roars and moves his tail . The big G is joined by Minilla and they are great and I love it when they roar as well ! As for their enemies Kamakiras and Kumonga they too is awesome . I love it when they roars . The fights between the monsters is really good . The acting by the film's human stars are also good . The music is just excellent ! I really love this Godzilla film for many reasons and its arguably the best ! If you love Godzilla I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy The Son of Godzilla today !
Great Film !	Last man Standing is a great film that has a good cast which includes Bruce Willis , Bruce Dern , William Sanderson , Christopher Walken , David Patrick Kelly , Karina Lombard , Ned Eisenberg , Alexandra Powers , Michael Imperioli , Ken Jenkins , R . D . Call , Ted Markland , Leslie Mann , Patrick Kilpatrick , Luis Contreras , Raynor Scheine , Tiny Ron , John Paxton , Jaime Méndez , and Thomas Rosales ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and the action is incredible ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Ry Cooder . Great directing Walter Hill ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Bruce Willis , Bruce Dern , William Sanderson , Christopher Walken , David Patrick Kelly , Karina Lombard , Ned Eisenberg , Alexandra Powers , Tiny Ron , John Paxton , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
MTV Video Music Awards 1992 !	Back when things were different in 1992 one very anticipated event was the MTV Music Awards ! The show was lengthy as always but it had a different look and feel to it . With Dana Carvey being the host and have a little comedy with David Spade with Andrew Dice Clay and Ringo Starr . There were so many countless stars on this show . There was a big thunder storm the night it was on and the power went off a while and I never found out if My favorite band Metallica performed . James Hetfield and the gang are listed here but I am not sure . I know Pearl Jam , and The Red Hot Chilli Peppers performed and it was cool how Ice T looked . The show was good but the best thing that happened was Nirvana's performance ! The performance was totally unpredictable ! Kurt Cobain's looks was so cool and it seemed like he was making up new words in the songs Lithium . The performance was nuts ! He just trashed his guitar like it was nothing ! This show is so much different compared to how it is now . If you watched it back then I'm sure you know what I mean ! If there is any way you can watch this very show on tape do so because it was cool !
A great and unique Science Fiction Spectacular !	The Chronicles of Riddick is a very good and unique film that has a very different good cast which includes Vin Diesel , Colm Feore , Thandie Newton , Judi Dench , Karl Urban , Alexa Davalos , Linus Roache , Yorick van Wageningen , Nick Chinlund , Keith David , Mark Gibbon , Roger R . Cross , Terry Chen , Christina Cox , Nigel Vonas , Shawn Reis , Fabian Gujral , Ty Olsson , Ron Selmour , Raoul Ganeev , Mark Acheson , Shohan Felber , Ben Cotton , Kimberly Hawthorne , and Kristin Lehman ! The acting by all of these actors and actresses is very good . Diesel , Feore , Newton , Dench , Urban , and Davalos are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . If you are a fan of Feore then this is the film to see because he has a great performance as the villain and has an awesome fight with Diesel ! Also fans of Newton will love her performance in this film ! Roache is also very goo ! The Hellhounds are cool creatures ! The action and special effects are incredible ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Graeme Revell and great directing by David Twohy ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like the original film Pitch Black and Vin Diesel , Colm Feore , Thandie Newton , Judi Dench , Karl Urban , Alexa Davalos , Linus Roache , Yorick van Wageningen , Nick Chinlund , Keith David , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Action , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , Contact , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Pitch Black , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Blade : Trinity !	Blade : Trinity is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Wesley Snipes , Kris Kristofferson , Dominic Purcell , Jessica Biel , Ryan Reynolds , Parker Posey , Mark Berry , John Michael Higgins , Callum Keith Rennie , Paul Michael Levesque , Paul Anthony , Françoise Yip , Michael Rawlins , James Remar , Natasha Lyonne , Haili Page , Patton Oswalt , Ron Selmour , Christopher Heyerdahl , and Eric Bogosian ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Snipes is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good as usual . Purcell really surprised Me ! I hope he'll be in some more action and horror pictures in the future . Biel was really terrific here . I was really amazed by her performance . I would like to see her in more action films as well . Reynolds was good . Posey and Lyonne were really good . I was surprised that Paul Michael Levesque AKA WWE's HHH or Hunter Hearst Helmsley was in this film . Having followed his WCW days as Terra Ryzing until recently it was wired to see another top wrestling is a big budget film . To Me he actually was pretty good and quite hilarious . I think in the future if he decides to be in more movies that he'll play very good characters and even in leading roles like fellow wrestlers The Rock and Hulk Hogan . Remar and Bogosian were very good as well . There are a few scenes that I thought were cool . The interview Bogosian did was really cool . The fight scenes in the very beginning were also very cool . I loved the police station scenes and how Snipes says Vampires exist and gives the scare to the shrink ! Also cool camera following Blade in the police station as well ! Just awesome ! The thrills and action is really good and some of it is surprising . The Dracula character was really remarkable . In his monster form he reminded Me a lot of Imhotep from the MuMmy and the MuMmy Returns ! The special effects are great ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Ramin Djawadi and The RZA . Great directing by David S . Goyer . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Wesley Snipes , Kris Kristofferson , Dominic Purcell , Jessica Biel , Ryan Reynolds , Parker Posey , Mark Berry , John Michael Higgins , Callum Keith Rennie , Paul Michael Levesque ( WWE's HHH ) , James Remar , Natasha Lyonne , Eric Bogosian , the rest of the cast in the film , The other Blade movies , Horror , Action , Adventure , Thrillers , Fantasy , Comic , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : On the second DVD in the Blade : Trinity case there is a special nearly two hour making of the third Blade movie . It shows how the music , special effects , fighting , sound , and everything else was done by the actors and crew . Biel and Reynolds talk about a possible spin off movie called ' The Nightstalkers ' . I wouldn't mind that and I certainly wouldn't mind another Blade film . In one of the other segments Jessica Biel talks about how hard she had to train and how difficult it was . She done her very best to make you happy . Snipes and Purcell fought the fight you wanted ! The director tried to make this the most explosive vampire film ever seen for you and yet you people still complain ! Thanks for reading !
Great Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most different Three Stooges shorts is Restless Knights . In this short are Geneva Mitchell , Stanley Blystone , Lynton Brent , Eadie Adams , George Baxter , and Walter Brennan . The acting by these actors are good especially by Mitchell and Blystone . the costumes and everything looks fantastic ! There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! I recommend this one to all !
Cool film !	In My opinion I think that Absolon is a good flick . Christopher Lambert , Lou Diamond Phillips , Ron Perlman , and Kelly Brook star in this picture . The performances were quite good by these actors and the other cast members . I was amazed by how Phillips was in this movie . Perlman played a good and colorful villain . The action in this film is also good . I believe fans of classic shoot em up films will like the action this film has to offer . The story was quite different . The filming of this movie was very cool , stylish , and unusual . The music was quite good . If you like Christopher Lambert , Lou Diamond Phillips , and / or Ron Perlman then check out this different but good action movie today !
Darkman is a great action film !	Darkman is a great action / revenge film with lots of action and heavy fire power ! Great direction by Sam Raimi , great music by Danny Elfman , and very good acting by Liam Neeson , Larry Drake , and Colin Friels . The action scenes are spectacular ! Darkman is great film ! Notes : Look for legendary wrestler Professor Toru Tanaka in Darkman ! Look for Bruce " Ash " Campbell at the end of Darkman !
Event Horizon !	This movie was scary and very unusual ! It stars Laurence Fishbourne , Same Neil , Kathleen Quinlan , Joely Richardson , Richard T . Jones , Jack Noseworthy , Jason Isaacs , and Sean Pertwee . The acting was very good by these actors especially by Fishbourne and Neil , Isaascs , and Pertwee . The film is very scary and its very unpredictable . The special effects are outstanding . I just love the main title when the film begins and Michael Kamen's music is perfect for it and the rest of the musical score by the great Michael Kamen is awesome ! I recommend you buy the score because its a dang good one ! The film has some gore but it doesn't go very far . The story is good and the directing by Paul W . S . Anderson is very good . If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see an excellent horror science fiction film then I strongly recommend that you see or even buy Event Horizon today !
Good Three Stooges short !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! One of the most hilarious Three Stooges shorts is Jerks of All Trades . In this short are Emil Sitka and Symona Boniface ! The acting by these actors are good especially . There are many funny scenes here that I think most Three Stooges fans will love ! In My opinion this one of the most different Three Stooges shorts . I recommend this one to all !
Arguably the best Summer movie of 2002 ! Theatrecal and video comments below !	I was originally going to see The Bourne Idenity but it was sold out at MY local Wehrenberg theater that is a huge building , a deluxe facility if you will that has a bowling alley , a large arcade , a huge screen for special events such as Baseball , and other sports , and not to mention 20 giant screens that all has stadium seating and a lot more ! Enough of this , anyway Scooby Doo was awesome ! The cast was perfect and they just didn't look like the classic cartoon characters but they acted and sounded exactly like them ! The contest between Scooby and Shaggy was one of the most well executed and funniest scenes I have seen in a movie quite along time . When this great scene came the whole theater was laughing and they couldn't stop and neither could I ! This along with Star Wars : Episode II : Attack of the Clones and Spider Man is the films to see this summer and I can't wait for the sequel to come out and I hope that this will become a franchise because its that good ! I just bought Scooby Doo The Movie on VHS and its a blast ! Its just as good on video than in the theater ! It has special features at the end which is a music video and deleted scenes and I just love the one featuring Velma singing ! I really loved that one and I won't spoil the rest of the bonus scenes ! I just love Scooby Doo and all of the actors did a wonderful job ! I recommend all Scooby Doo fans to buy this film now !
In Cold Blood !	In Cold Blood is a fine and decent movie ! The film is in My opinion before its time . Robert Blake and Scott Wilson were very good ! The music was good . It is hard to believe that something like this really happened ! If you like a different movie to watch then this is it !
Good one !	The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Scheming Schemers is a funny Three Stooges short with Shemp ! There is another short with alternate scenes called Vagabond Loafers . Christine McIntyre and Kenneth MacDonald are really neat a couple . They were also a couple in the two shorts with alternates scenes called Crime on Their Hands and Hot Ice ! Symona Boniface , Emil Sitka , Dudley Dickerson , and Herbert Evans also appear in this short ! This is great short with Shemp !
Great one !	One of the best Three Stooges shorts is Three Little Bears ! Bud Jamison was very good . When the Stooges are golfing its so funny . The two workers who discover what they are doing to the golf course is very funny as well ! Check out this great Three Stooge short !
Exorcist III is spooky and Brad Dourif makes it worse : )	Exorcist III is one heck of a spooky film . You never know what is going to happen in this chiller thriller . Once in a while in the film the great actor George C . Scott is funny . Brad Dourif puts on a fantastic performance that in MY opinion was oscar worthy . He put so much emotion and anger into this role I mean he did it all . He is always great in his films but this was outstanding ! Exorcist III is a very spooky film and I don't think anyone will be disappointed .
My all time favorite Three Stooges short subject ! ! !	This is one of My all time favorite Three Stooges short subjects . I have seen nearly all of the Stooges episodes with the original trio of Curly , Moe , and Larry and the replacements with Shemp , Joe , and Curly-Joe and I thank God for that . Anyway this episode is so great . It starts off with a great song sung by the Stooges and when the shopping begins I just love the guy that selling the food as he yells about the Stooges jumping on his food cart . I also love when the Stooges are in the French Foreign Legion . An excellent scene is were one of My favorite actors Vernon Dent plays Simitz . He played that role perfectly with the accent and everything and I believe its one of his finest works . There are not that many actors today who can pull off what he did in his day ! The Santa Clause and the harem girl costumes the Stooges wear are so funny . The music is great in Simitz ' palace and I get a kick out of his guard and his harem girls especially the gal with the black pants , she new how to dance ! I just love this one ! Like I said this is one of My all time favorite Three Stooges short subjects films and all Stooges lovers with adore this one !
Excellent film !	Fallen is a great film that has a great cast including Denzel Washington , John Goodman , Donald Sutherland , Embeth Davidtz , James Gandolfini , Elias Koteas , Gabriel Casseus , Robert Joy , Frank Medrano , Bill Clark , and Graham Beckel ! The acting by all of these actors is unbelievable . Washington once again performed great . Goodman and Koteas arguably have the greatest performances in this picture ! Sutherland is excellent and Davidtz is just wonderful . Gandolfini is very different and Beckel has a brief but one heck of a performance ! I thought The horror is good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed really good . The music is great by Tan Dun . Ecellent directing by Gregory Hoblit ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a great and thrilling film . If you like Denzel Washington , John Goodman , Donald Sutherland , Embeth Davidtz , James Gandolfini , Elias Koteas , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Mystery , Thriller , Action , Crime , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
One of the funniest !	Arguably the funniest episode ever from the Stooges ! I love it when the Stooges get in the hospital ! Vernon Dent and Bud Jamison are really good in this one . The Stooges ' wives are very different . This is a great one to check out !
