where the hell am i ?	this movie had two things going for it . the beginning credits was one . can you guess the other ? if you said : the end credits , you win . your prize : the best advice you'll ever receive . wait for it - - avoid this movie . this thing just went on and on and on - - and on . i still don't ' have any clue what the hell its about , and i'm damn sure not risking the loss of another two hours of my life on the slim chance i can figure it out . i feel like i spent two hours in a black hole , and it just sucked me in more and more each second . i'm still not sure how i managed to escape its pull , but i'm glad to back on planet earth . truthfully , my friend and i only kept watching because we thought the end would make it somewhat worthwhile . however , we quit watching before the end , because it just took too long to get there . if you must watch this movie , your best bet would be to get really drunk or stoned , and then it might make some sense . i'm kidding of course . or am i . . . ? oh . yeah , in case you were wondering , i didn't like this movie . o
beyond pointless ( a true crap fest in every way )	this movie bit the big one , and i mean that in the worst possible way . it starts off really slow and boring . then , they decide to give us a sequence containing buckets of gore , with people dying horrible deaths . bad enough , but . . . the method in which they are dispatched ( pretty much all at the same time ) a mass killing if you will , is beyond the realm of plausibility even for a movie . add to that , the lack of realism in the scene i . e poor makeup effects , with really fake looking blood . what's next ? well , back to being slooooww and borrrring again and bad acting , in fact almost no effort put forth . oh , and really bad dialogue to boot . things did not improve from this point , so i quit watching before the end . i almost felt sorry for the actors , but not quite . they at least picked up a paycheck ( hopefully not too large of one ) from this mess , while the viewer merely loses a good chunk of their life . Julianna Margulies ( a talented actress ) is wasted in this movie , as is Gabrriel Byrne . summing up , we start off with a real yawner , followed by a gore / crap fest . ( ie bad makeup effects , fake looking blood ) next we have another yawn fest , with cheese ( The dialogue hehe ) and , finally a clinic on bad acting . all this for the price of admission or rental to one movie . very impressive . and that's having only seen maybe half the movie . wow . less than
had potential , until after the beginning credits rolled	wow , what a mess . bad acting , bad special effects , dumb plot . this one has it all . Donald Sutherland in particular should be ashamed for having the worst fake accent ever . none of the actors seemed to want to be there . maybe they all owed a debt to somebody , and this was the only way to pay it . this thing was a really dog through and through . who green lights this crap ? don't they screen movies before releasing them . i can't believe i sat through this cesspool . i guess i was hoping it might improve . there's 90 minutes of my life i'll never get back , and neither will you if you subject yourself to this so called movie . watch this movie at your own peril . so , if you like a movie with good acting , good special effects and a good plot-look elsewhere , i beg you . , though it deserves much less
if you miss one movie this decade-it should be " Slither "	can you smell that ? it's the stench from this so called movie . i realize that this movie is supposed to be a horror comedy . however , it is missing two important elements . horror and comedy . i cannot believe any actor could be convinced by any agent to appear in this bomb . they should all fire their agents . i never once laughed during this movie , nor was i even remotely scared . i was scared however , that if i didn't get the disc out of my player , the thing would spread and fry my player's circuits . then it might spread throughout my house infecting everything in its path . from there it would spread outside and eventually take over the world . thankfully , i removed the menace from my DVD player in time . otherwise i don't think i could have handled the guilt involved with inflicting such a dreadful disease on the unsuspecting public . truly a waste of celluloid . i'd say Slither was a " z " movie , but that is giving it higher praise . it may have aspired to such lofty heights , but it fails miserably in that ( or any ) regard . much less than out of 10
pretty much as dreadful as the first one	i was hoping this movie would be better than the first one , which i thought was dreadful . overall , i think it is a bit better , but not very much . the only thing better about it is it has slightly more eerie and creepy , vibe , but just slightly . however , other than that , this movie is dreadfully boring and not really scary at all . it's also annoying at times . i also never really connected with the characters , so it was kind of hard to care about their fates . there are also a few things that don't quite make sense . there a few illogical moments , even in the context of this movie . i don't know if there will be a Grudge 3 or not , but it wouldn't bother me if they never made another one . i gave the first Grudge 1 star and overall , this one isn't really any better . as a result , i give " The Grudge 2 "
AKA Night Caller ( 1992 ) don't bother answering this call	i don't know what they were thinking . by they , i mean anybody even remotely connected to this disaster . i've seen so bad movies , i've seen so really bad movies , and then there's this . but i will say one thing . whoever wrote the script has manged to put what could possibly the most inane dialogue over written , onto the screen . there is nothing good about this movie , either from a technical standpoint or any other standpoint . whoever allowed it to be made and then released should have been fired immediately . there are a few fairly well known names in this movie . actually i hesitate to use the word movie . it's more like a collection of random scenes that have no relation to another and make less than 0 sense . anyway , i fail to see why anyone with any dignity would appear in this . i got it really cheap , and i still got ripped of . even if i had gotten this movie for free , i would still have been ripped off . this is an absoluter
awful stand alone movie ( and i mean awful )	on this suckiness scale , this movie ranks right up there . it's a stand alone movie that has nothing to do with the rest of the Halloween series . i didn't like much about this movie . i actually felt dirty after watching it . thankfully , it's not all that memorable . but i remember all i need to about it . it sucked . myself , i didn't see that point . i know without a doubt that i will never view this movie again . there are only a handful of movies i can say that about ( so far , any way ) . i'm not sure of the exact running time . it's somewhere between 96 and 99 minutes . coincidently , its also between 96 and 99 minutes too long . this is just my opinion , of course , and some people will disagree with it . the only thing i can suggest is , after watching it for awhile , and you find it's not very good , turn it off . it doesn't get better . for me , Halloween III : Season of the Witch is an abysmal
unbelievably sick and awful ( in the worst way )	what a horrible , horrible movie . i thought i was watching a snuff film . you have to be emotionally unhinged to enjoy this piece of excrement . low budget and it shows . the camera lingers for a very long time on all the killing scenes , way too long . the acting is poor , the plot is ridiculous and full of inconsistencies and holes you could drive a couple of semi trucks through . but really the movie is just pointless , gratuitous gore and violence . this dog may be worse than hostel . it's definitely a close race . if you're even slightly well adjusted , you will have no use for this bomb . if you do enjoy this film , i hope i never live next door to you . i felt so dirty after watching this thing , i had to take a shower right after to cleanse myself . and i may never get the stench out of my house . truly , truly , sick and demented ( and not in any good way ) filth
this movie is a violation ( but my cactus liked it )	i should have known what i was getting myself into as soon as i realized some of the same people behind Police Academy , were responsible for this thing . but , i thought i'd give it a shot . turns out , all copies of this movie should be shot into outer space , where it can do no harm , at least to us earthlings . i guess if i was 12 . this movie might be funny , but i doubt it . the movie ( and i use this term loosely ) is basically about a bunch of odd characters who get sentenced to traffic school in order to get their licenses back . this movie is really bad , alright , but , believe it or not , there are much worse movies , which should also join this thing on its outer space voyage . it is awful , but there are varying degrees of awful . on the awful meter this thing ranks somewhere almost near the middle . i think my cactus liked it . i'm sure i heard it laugh a few times . as for my fellow human beings , however , if you are looking for a comedy-keep looking . a very weak
not suitable for kids or adults , not suitable for any age group .	this movie is pretty bad . i haven't been this bored in a long time . Alec Baldwin must have been into the sauce when he agreed to do this thing . it's marketed as a kid's movie with a PG rating , but this really isn't a kid's movie . there is some very adult language implied . yet it is not a movie for adults either , because it is so juvenile . so , really this movie is not suitable for anyone . By the way , Mike Meyers looks like a complete idiot as the cat . this movie doesn't strike me as being very faithful to the spirit of the children's book by Dr . Seuss . the only other thing i can say about this movie is it is colourful . otherwise , there is no good reason for anyone to watch this movie . a weak
an absolutely dreadful excuse for comedy	lame-o . i think this bomb was supposed to be a comedy . but that assumes laughter would be involved , and you know what they say when you assume . bottom line , not funny , not even mildly amusing . it is however , stupid . but it isn't a total loss . i mean , after this experience , i now have a new appreciation for the route canal . honestly , if you're 3 years old and under , i suppose you may find something funny in this thing , but i doubt it . of course if you're 3 years old , the clowns may be a bit too scary for you . so , really that leaves nobody who should find this bore fest funny . if you're really that bored , paint something and watch the paint dry . you get just as many laughs out of it . save yourself-just avoid this turkey at all costs .
outdoes the previous " House " ( more often known as " The horror show " ) entry in sheer crappiness	so , on we go to round three of the " House " series . we ( my sister and i ) had watched the first entry all the way through and were underwhelmed , to say the least . the second one lowered the bar for crappiness even further . how bad could number 3 be ? it starts off promising enough . after all , it had Lance Henricksen ( he should've passed ) in it and it looked like it had a bigger budget . however , it soon became apparent that this movie was also a dud . another ridiculous plot , bad acting , bad everything . i think this one made it 40 minutes tops . any longer and my head would have exploded . again , no horror , and no comedy . i must be missing something . i wish i knew what it was . this thing gets a low note : this movie is sometimes referred to as " House 3 " including the copy i have . SO , although it may have little or nothing to do with the " House " other than name , i chose to refer to it as " House " 3 in my summary . i hope this clears up any confusion .
a true z movie if there ever was one	wooo-eeee . does this movie suck . i'd say it was a b movie , but it's more like a z movie . from the 30 minutes i was able to suffer through , this is a typical teen slasher movie , except that some crazed swamp monster is doing the killing . almost right off the bat , you have the requisite sex scene between two teenagers . there is some nudity in this scene , which would have been great , except the rest of the movie had to come along and ruin it . and of course one of them gets killed in a particularly grisly way . the characters have less depth than one dimensional cardboard cutouts . but at least this movie is consistent . the music is also of the z quality , completely lame and forgettable . for some strange reason , Matthew Le Nevez , who plays the town's new sheriff , Kyle Williams and presumably , a main character , tries to play his role as if he were in an Oscar calibre movie . this movie isn't even razzie calibre . i wanted to keep watching until it showed the creature , so i could bash the makeup and creature effects as it would only have been fair . alas , i just couldn't take the torture any longer and had to quit watching . i give this stinker a low
i'd rather have my sinuses scraped	This movie is pathetic . every drama i've ever seen is funnier than this " alleged " " comedy . even the anti piracy warning before the movie , is funnier . i'd give an overview of the plot , but it's just too painful . right after the movie , i booked myself for a sinus scraping , followed directly after by a 4 day insurance seminar . i had an ear to ear grin through both the scraping and the insurance seminar . they were both much more entertaining than Anchorman . i know some people thought this movie was funny , but i can't help but wonder if they were either paid , or were somehow involved with the making of the movie . there's no other rational explanation . i didn't find the movie offensive in any way , it was just horribly , depressingly boring . maybe if i had gouged out my eyeballs while watching it , i would have been more entertained . if you like your comedies with no comedy involved , this one's for you . otherwise , try Harold and Kumar go to White Castle , or Repli-Kate , two insanely hysterical comedies . there is no rating low enough for this dreck .
i feel violated ,	in the worst possible way . this movie is worse than the second one . not only is the acting bad , but it was over the top , and not in a good way . this movies tries too take itself seriously and be something it isn't , which is a good movie . this thing is absolutely ridiculous , with a plot that is not only bizarre , but is truly not from this planet , or probably any other . there's no believability here at all . but in all fairness , this movie is at least as loud as the last one , so i guess that's something . not something good , but something . the whole premise of Scanners is not believable by any stretch , but in this mess , the unbelievability factor is way past the stratosphere . in case i'm not being clear , i didn't like it .
2 hours gone forever into the abyss ( which is where this movie belongs )	sometimes you go into a film with very low expectations , and occasionally you are pleasantly surprised . Dominion : Prequel to the Exorcist is not that movie . i was sure this movie would be a piece of crap , except that i would rather have watched a piece of crap for 2 hours . it would have been much more entertaining . so why did i watch it ? well , it was on cable , i had nothing better to do , and i like to give every movie the benefit of the doubt . but the most important reason i sat through this thing : i ran out of pins to stick in my eyes . there is very little good about this film , other than the end credits . Stellan Skarsgard is a very talented actor , but his talents are wasted on this dud . you expect to see a movie with a demon , based on the title . the demon only appears well after half of the movie has elapsed , and it does not inspire fear at all , but is laughable . the movie is also disjointed and has many scenes that have no relevance . then again the movie has no relevance either . it does at times become a sermon , which is very annoying . special mention must go to the people in charge of the cgi effects . they have managed to creature the worst cgi animals i have ever seen . hyenas , several cattle and even a snake were very obviously all cgi . completely fake looking . unless you want to lose 2 hours of your life , don't even go near this thing . a well deserved
really bad Carpenter film	Prince of Darkness is a bad movie from John Carpenter . the whole thing is ridiculous . take the premise , for example . A priest has discovered a long hidden canister containing the liquid form of Satan himself , or rather his son . said canister had been hidden deep within the basement of an ancient church . upon discovering it , said priest decides to call upon physics Prof and students to investigate it . soon , the liquid ends up in most of the students ( don't ask ) turning then into mindless drones whose only purpose is to aid the son ( said liquid ) into freeing daddy aka Satan . Anyway , the whole thing is ludicrous even for sci-fi / fantasy / horror . there just isn't any point . Carpenter really misses the mark here . With all due respect to the late , great Donald Pleasence , what was he thinking ? the only redeeming feature of this movie is that it is ( marginally ) less awful than " Slither " and " Lawnmower Man 2 " .
final and worst installment of the " House " series ( i'm not joking )	how low can you go ? not much lower than this , the 4th and final ( hopefully ) installment int the dreadfully awful " House " series . each previous entry outdid the last for sheer crap . the last installment , made it about 30 minutes , when we realized we couldn't go any further . we never laughed once , nor jumped out of our seats once . these movies are billed as horror / comedy , so shouldn't they contain elements of horror and comedy ? the fact this series was ever released onto an unsuspecting public is horrifying indeed . i don't know if i've ever been this bored in my entire life . i mean , what the hell were these people ( anyone involved in this crap fest ) smoking ? some movies are so bad , they'r good . i wish this movie was that good . after torturing ourselves for way too long , we went outside and watched the grass grow to relieve the boredom .
the opposite of good	i enjoy a good , clever satire as much as anyone . unfortunately this is neither . it is however , sick and offensive and i'm not someone who gets easily offended . it's basically a bunch of mostly unrelated short skits that don't just cross the line . rather , this " movie " actually creates several new lines and crosses them all . i didn't find it funny at all . in fact , i'm surprised it even got past the censors . it's not that its politically incorrect and i'm no slave to political correctness . that can be all right sometimes , if done properly . no , this goes way beyond any definition of political incorrectness i've ever known . it's beyond mean spirited . i mean i guess it skewers some targets that deserve to be skewered , but mostly it demeans people and groups that don't deserve it , certainly not to the degree shown here . it's just cruel . but hey , at least now we have a new word for something sick and cruel that it defies description . that word is " Onion " . for me , the Onion Movie is pure " Onion " .
sinks faster than the " Titanic "	i tried to sit through this bomb not too long ago . what a disaster . the acting was atrocious . there were some absolutely pathetic action scenes that fell flat as a lead balloon . this was mainly due to the fact that the reactions of the actors just didn't ring true . supposedly a modern reworking of the Hitchcock original " Lifeboat " . i think Hictcock would be spinning circles in his grave at the very thought of it . from what i was able to suffer through , there is nothing compelling in this movie . it boasts a few semi big names , but they put no effort into their characters . but , you know , to be fair , it was nobody's fault really . i mean , i'm pretty sure the script blew up in the first explosion . LOL . it is possible that this thing ends up improving as it goes along . but for me , i'm not willing to spend at least three days to find out . so unless you have at least a three day weekend on the horizon , avoid this stinker /
check out Anchor Bay's uncut version instead	this movie is not good . the first one almost sucked , but had that unreal ending to make it worth watching . this one has nothing . there's zero scare , zero tension or suspense . this isn't really a horror movie . most of the kills don't show anything . there's no gore to speak of . this could almost be a TV , except for a bit of nudity and a bit of violence . the acting is not very good , either . and don't get me started on the dialogue . as for the surprise ending , surprise , there isn't one . i suppose it could have been worse , although i don't see how . but then again , it is less than 80 minutes long , so i guess that's a good thing . although it felt a lot longer . apparently this is the cut version of the film . i found it for a very cheap price , but it still not worth it . if you want the uncut more graphic version , check out the Anchor Bay edition . anyway , this version of Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers gets a big fat from me . p . s . if you watch this movie , you will probably be a bored and unhappy camper . if you are a real fan , you might want to pick up Anchor Bay's Sleepaway Camp ( with survival kit ) three disc collection containing the first three movies uncut and with special features
quick , over here ! . i think i've found it . . . ,	no . sorry . my mistake . i thought for a minute i may have found the plot to this movie . but i don't think think a search party could have any success finding the plot to this movie . there are a few good actors in this movie , but they can't do anything to make it better . i think the movie dragged their performances down with it . as a a result , you won't find much in the way of acting here . and the dialogue . wow . awful , truly awful . i suspect they were going for something profound here , but they fell short by a long shot . this thing is really tedious . i think this is a case where they should have scrapped this thing before it was done , or at least not released it . i don't want to say it's bad , but it sure is the opposite of good . this is how i feel about the movie , and others may feel differently . all i know is , it sure didn't do it for me . for me , Dream Warrior is a / 10 movie .
awful awful movie that takes its name from the original	how to start . how about abysmal , boring , a complete train wreck ? that barely touches the surface when describing this mess . this movie is dreary , and depressing , to say the least . painfully torturous to watch . but for some reason , i Sat through it all . the big problem was the writing which was pedantic at best . then there is the acting ; sub par from some usually reliable actors . one big problem was that they tried to make it funny . i haven't seen the original yet , but i do know it was played as a drama , not a comedy . and i'm guessing it works much more effectively . i also suspect the casting decisions were smarter for the original . the actors were clearly miscast for this mess . they did not look comfortable at all . plainly stated , this movie could not have been very faithful to its source material and that is its failing . But in that case it would have been the exact same movie as the original . what i'm really saying is that this movie was not necessary . i'm sure the movie going public wasn't clamoring for it . bottom there are many crappy movies out there to avoid , and this is one of them .
you're joking , right ?	i had hear a lot about how great this movie is , over the years . so imagine my shock and disappointment to find out it's pure crap . i didn't find it funny , or amusing , or even entertaining . i swear i never even smiled once . i realise this is just my opinion of course , but i can't get over the high score ( ) this movie has on this site . it boggles the mind . anyway , for whatever reason , i didn't think this was a good movie at all . in fact , it's brutal . there are some big comedy names of the era in this one , so you'd think that would count for something . but it doesn't seem to , at least in my opinion . i'm sure i'm in the minority , but my vote for Caddyshack is a dismal
a complete waste of time and money if you are looking for an actual movie that resembles a theatrical movie in some way	Well , i tried to watch this movie , i really did . but i had to quit watching after 30 minutes . this movie is based on the musical of the same name , and it shows . it plays like a musical all right , but hey forgot the movie . i mean , there is no flow here at all . everything is disjointed . The actors ( Matthew Broderick , Nathan Lane and even the extras ) play their parts as if they are actually in a Broadway musical , and not a theatrical movie that is ( or at least should be ) merely based on a musical Broadway . i mean , what's the point . this production just does not translate into a theatrical motion picture . I realize i only watched 30 minutes , but i don't see the rest of the film being any different . if you like musicals , you will like this " movie " but then again , you could simply go see the exact same thing on stage . only for lovers of the stage . out of 10
If it comes down to this movie , or a rectal exam , gimme the rectal exam , baby ! ! !	how many ways can you say awful ? too many to list here . somehow i have to find a way to get in the minimum words required by IMDb . if you read my summary , you know already know that a rectal exam is much more fun and entertaining than this piece of afterbirth . this movie is below the intellect of the slowest 3 year old . absolutely atrocious to the nth degree . it blew chunks all over my house . i hope i get the stains out before before it sets . look , there is nothing in this world you could do which would be less amusing and pleasurable than this stink bomb . route canals , invasive surgery , having your fingernails and toenails pulled out with pliers , eating a bucket of broken glass and of course the always popular-rectal exam . take your pick . me i'd go for the rectal exam . trust me , you'll be aching with desire to bend over and feel that rubber glove after this excruciatingly agonizing excuse of a movie . this one is too low to rate
i can't believe i swallowed the same booger for nearly 30 min .	where to start ? virtually no plot . bad acting , bad taste . lots of t & a . nude lesbian scenes . even that can not salvage this booger . not much else . Paris Hilton is in this . i still say she can act , given the right material , but the road to becoming a serious ( or at least respected ) actress does not begin with this phlegm . or maybe she doesn't want to become a serious actress . in which case , she is headed in the right direction . i may have managed to get through half an hour of this thing , before i said , screw it , there must be something else to do . i am not a prude and have low standards ( or is that high standards ? - - i can never remember ) when it comes to things such as bad taste , but this was beyond my capacity . mostly because it just not relevant . but then neither was the rest of the movie . Most of the actresses in this sludge probably don't have the acting ability to make it in porn movies . anyway , i think i met the required 10 lines , so i'll leave it at that . but don't say i didn't warn you . a big fat
muddled and incoherent	talk about a pointless movie . i mean , i love Milla as much as the next guy , but even she can't save this disaster . she looks hot and she's in great shape . she's just in the wrong movie . i could only take so much of her character , V ( Short for Violet ) going up against increasingly overwhelming odds time after time and emerging with barely a scrape . and that's mostly all this movie is , in my mind : a collection of action / fight sequences , with pretty much no coherent plot . i didn't particularly like Either of the first two Resident Evil movies , but this is worse than both of them . i don't mind saying i was bored out of my skull . even the action sequences become boring , once you see the same thing over and over again . talk about a train wreck . this movie really made my head hurt . i'm sorry i lost 94 minutes of my life for this thing . check out Resident Evil : Extinction ( on the big screen ) instead . anyway , for me Ultraviolet is a definite
woof !	( The title of this movie translates to Star Knight in English ) man . i'm not sure what i just witnessed . i know there is some comedy , but it isn't the good kind . i think it was intended to be funny , but it fell flat , in my eyes . there is also some bad some bad acting . although to be fair , the dialogue was translated from Spanish to English , so maybe a lot got lost in the translation and the actors had a hard time being in sync with the dubbed dialogue . anyway , Harvey Keitel is in this , but he looks kinda embarrassed . but maybe i'm just imagining it . this is supposed to be a romance , adventure sci-fi , but it sure is boring . i found the plot ridiculous , to put it mildly . my head hurt from watching it . in my opinion , if you wanted to watch this movie , i think your best bet would be to catch it on TV . that way , you won't be out any money . i got this movie really cheap , and i still feel cheated . i think i've gotten the required ten lines of text in , so i'll end by saying that for me , Star Knight is
raging bull ? raging bore	wow , what a letdown . i had heard friends and critics say that raging bull was a great movie , even a masterpiece . well , i finally decided to watch it . all i can say is . . . i don't think so . i found the entire movie a complete bore and horribly depressing . the movie may have been based on a true story , and maybe Scorsese was going for reality , but i'm sorry , what a horrible human being Jake Lomatta is . how can anyone remotely sympathize with this wretch . he deserved everything he got . but this is the one time Hollywood should have taken dramatic license and made the character into a semblance of a human being . anyway , the film chronicles the rise and fall of boxer Jake Lomatta played by Robert Deniro . Scorsese filmed the movie in black and white , supposedly for effect , but it was lost on me . a good movie needs a main character you can relate to and / or sympathize with and this movie doesn't have that . there are no redeeming qualities in this movie . i felt like i wanted to kill myself after watching it . simply put this movie is a colossal waste of time . i know many people totally disagree with this view point and i can't for the life of me understand why , but that's life . out of 10
another bore fest masquerading as a movie	i must be seeing things . i swear this movie has a rating of 7 . 9 . but that can't be right . that would mean it is actually a good movie . so i guess the 7 . 9 is out of a possible 100 . seriously , The French Connection is one long bore . Gene Hackman is a gifted actor , but even he can't save this mess . William ( i have yet to make a decent film ) Friedkin shows once again how to make any action sequence seem slower than molasses . i know people rave about this guy , but i have to wonder if they just mimic what they may have heard someone else say . i blame the first person who ever saw this movie and described the experience in a positive light . honestly , if i had known what i was in for , i would gladly have hacked off all my limbs and poured salt in the wounds instead . that would have made for a much more pleasurable experience . and just in case you don't know what the movie is about , here's a brief synopsis : cop movie with bad dialogue , punctuated by boring action sequences , followed by more bad dialogue and on and on . the writers should not escape notice for their part in this disaster . Clearly , the script was lost somewhere along the way . Right after the beginning credits rolled . up until that point , it held promise . if you enjoy being bored to tears for an extended length of time , i recommend a double bill-this movie and another bore fest-To Live and Die in L . A .
a pointless non horror / non thrilling movie	this is not a good movie . i don't recall seeing worse acting for a long time . basically , a new student becomes bullied to the point where he is pushed over the edge . he exacts revenge by killing those who wronged him , making their deaths look accidental . sounds okay so far , right . but , this killer decides to kill other students who had nothing to do with bullying him . now there are no real " legitimate " reasons given to murder everybody . now , we get to the acting . each time a fellow student has a fatal accident , the other students show very little emotion and continue as if nothing has happened . i have to chalk this up to the limited acting ability of all the actors . in most so called horror movies , acting is not expected to be Oscar calibre , but this is worse than almost any movie in the horror genre . and things are worse because this movie has no scary sequences , so it would be nice if the actors could pick up some of the slack . the characters are like robots in their reactions , so it's really hard to like any of them . there are at least two scenes of nudity which are pointless . there is never any suspense generated , so there is never any feeling of anyone being in jeopardy . one last thing . this movie tries to take itself way too seriously , as if it is an Oscar contender . if it had been played for laughs , it may have been a better , or at least watchable movie .
laughable	this is one truly awful - - i hesitate to use the word - - movie . it's very low budget , which isn't always a bad thing . the real problem with this movie is the abysmal acting , which overshadows everything . the story is stupid also . i have seen better high school plays , i kid you not . i didn't make it any where near the end of this movie . it just got to the point where i couldn't take it anymore . i felt sure my head would explode if i watched another microsecond . just because you have a camera and some friends to appear in in front of said camera , doesn't mean you are making a movie . i don't know what this was , but movie doesn't describe it . this is just my opinion , and some people may have fun with how awful it is , but i thought it was beyond that point . this turkey gets a very well deserved
truly painful to watch , unless you're into unintentional bad acting	as disaster movies , this is pretty awful . poor acting all around , especially from the woman who played the town mayor . judging by her performance , i'm guessing she thought she was in a comedy . nobody did a good job in their roles , except maybe John Schnieder , who was not too bad and Michelle Greene was okay . as for the rest , there isn't a convincing one in the lot . i was so embarrassed for them all . but to be fair , some of the dialogue they were given is atrocious . not much thought went into this film . 1 positive though is that the lightning scenes were done well , and were almost impressive at times . the story itself moves way too slow , with pointless scene after pointless scene . this movie is not worth your time , unless you want to laugh at bad acting . the movie is supposed to be serious , and is not played for camp value , at all , and that is the real disaster .
Ulli Lommel strikes again	( this movie should not be confused with the Brian DePalma film , which i haven't seen , but i am sure it is exponentially better than the travesty i just witnessed ) . yeesh . this movie is vile , and i mean that in the worst possible way . it looks like documentary or a home movie the way it was shot . i felt like i was watching a snuff movie . as a matter of fact , this " movie reminded me of another one , which also made me think i was viewing a snuff film . turns out there's a good reason for this . it seems Ulli Lommel is not only the director behind this p . o . s . but he is also responsible for that other cinematic travesty , B . T . K Killer . next time is see this guy's name near any movie , i gonna run as fast as i can in the opposite direction . of the 50 plus reviewers on this site , most voted this thing a 1 . 4 / or less . there were a few people who loved it . or at least seemed to , and that's fine . everybody ' is entitled to their opinion . but for me , this is just sick . a well deserved
morbid , overly depressing , pointless and incoherent	talk about a painful movie to watch . this is it . i found it morbid , overly depressing and pointless , as i mentioned in the summary . usually when things happen in a movie , there is a reason for them . not in his movie . it doesn't make sense and it just sort of ends , with no explanation . i found it wholly unsatisfying . Sandra Bullock demonstrates she is a fine dramatic actress , but i think she picked the wrong movie to display her ability . the trailers made the movie look interesting , and if it actually made some sense and wasn't so incoherent , it might have been . my friend i a both agreed , it was one of the biggest wastes of time for both of us , in a long while . i certainly wouldn't recommend it . for me , this is a one star movie and that might even be too much .
a complete mess , with no point . a useless sequel	wow . what a piece of crap . this movie blows . the first Mortal Kombat is no classic , but compared to this movie it is like Shakespeare . this movie has very little merit . there is so much wrong with it , it is hard to know where to begin . first off , the fight scenes are ridiculously over the top and way too protracted . the acting is abysmal , with very few of the original actors returning . in particular , the guy playing Rayden is miscast , to say the least . also , the actors playing the villains are not believable , so there is no sense of jeopardy or urgency to the film . the whole mess plays more like a comedy than a serious movie . the good guys have no depth , so you really don't care what happens to them . I also have to mention the stilted dialogue and the wooden delivery of almost every line . the music was also distracting and grating , especially during the fight scenes . i could not watch this movie all the way trough , because it is so awful . this is a completely incoherent mess . a definitely inferior remake , which should never have been made . at least the original has some heart to it . the sequel has some okay special effects , but not enough to recommend it . which being liberal .
dull	wow . i was disappointed in the first Poison Ivy movie , but compared to this movie , it is a masterpiece . this is one long , slow , tedious movie . the plot of the movie ( if you can call it that , is incoherent . i would say it was ant climatic , but there is no climax , and without that , you can't have an anti climatic movie . to me , this movie is basically a soft core porn . i watched the whole movie hoping for some good to come out of it . no such luck . there are a few minutes of action , but not enough to redeem this movie . plus , i thought the dialogue was cringe worthy . i think the movie was just an excuse for people to get naked . anyway , i didn't like it at all . for me Poison Ivy II is a
not for all tastes ( lots of very vulgar language )	i didn't like this movie at all . i think it's supposed to be a parody of March of the Penguins . but for me , it just wasn't funny . plus , i felt the humour consisted of mostly vulgar , crude language . there's a lot of the F-bomb ( among other words ) dropped here . this definitely isn't for kids . but i also just found it boring . i actually couldn't watch it all , because i found it too slow . as for the crude language , that doesn't always bother me , but i just found it gratuitous and too frequent . i don't think you always need to have swears to make things funny . it's not for every taste , that's for sure . if you don't mind a lot of very crude language , you might want to check this one out . for me , Farce of the Penguins is a
most offensive , unfunny movie i have ever seen	bad , bad , bad . there have only been a handful of movies i have walked out of before the end . this is one of them . i think my buddy & i made it to the halfway point , before saying , " screw it , let's leave " . not only was the movie not funny , but it really stereotyped a certain population more frequently and strongly than any day time trash talk show would . i don't belong to the particular group they are targeting , but i was actually offend . i mean , this is one bitter , mean spirited movie . and i never get offended , at least not to that degree . . i won't name any of the actors , to spare them shame , if they have any . i just didn't see the point . i'm guessing some of the actors involved belonged in one of three categories . 1 : they needed the money desperately . 2 : they owed someone a huge favour . 3 : they didn't read the script , for whatever reason . anyway , i can't see anyone liking this movie , but judging from the rating ( ) some people did . all i know is i didn't . in fact , this is one of the top five worst movies i have ever seen . even though this is pushing it , i'll grudgingly give " Drop Dead Gorgeous " a
just enjoy the first one , this one has no excuse for its existence ( other than dollar signs ) shame on you , Disney	i wish i could find some good things to say about this animated sequel ( but not really a sequel ) to " Atlantis : The Lost Empire " but this would be a very short comment . the magic that the first one had is nowhere to be found here . the animation is pretty poor all over , the characters themselves are not very well drawn . the backgrounds and the foregrounds are also not good . there's very little attention to detail here . and instead of a compelling and engaging story , we have 3 short stories which are boring and don't make a lot of sense . i swear , even the characters sounded like they were bored , and would rather be somewhere else . which says that the voice actors were bored and wanted to be someplace else , at least that's the impression . some of the same actors return for this dismal effort , but an integral par of the success of the first one was Michael J . Fox as the main hero , Milo Thatch . i get the distinct impression this movie was just thrown together to capitalize on the success of the first one , without much thought or care . but at least Cree Summer returns as the voice of " Kida " . that's probably the only good thing about this movie , and even she doesn't seem to have her heart completely in it . mind you , i guess you couldn't blame any of the cast for not giving their all , considering what they had to work with . or rather not work with . this is a straight to video movie ( and i use the term loosely ) which should have went straight to the nearest landfill . anyway , shame on Disney . consumers deserve much better than this . this one gets a and a well deserved one at that . p . u
awful ( does not deserve the " Species " name )	this movie is not good at all . it was so bad , i could smell it and taste it . yuck . this movie doesn't deserve the " Species " name in its title . it's much grosser than the first " Species " , sometimes too much . also , there's a scene that belongs in a porn movie , which is absolutely disgusting . i'm not sure how this particular scenes got by the ratings board . they must have all been having a nap that day . this film should have an NC-17 rating . anyway , the acting was good , but the rest of the movie was not . if it's not ultra low budget , they sure fooled me . if i were you , i wouldn't waste my time with this one . i know i don't have any plans to subject myself to it for a second time . instead , i suggest you watch the original , then check out " Species 3 " a work of art compared to this one . the most i can muster for this one is a
does not stand the test of time	wow . what a bore . the jokes were tired and lame . my friend and i barely chuckled . we had to stop it just after an hour . we just couldn't go on . i remember this movie being funny , the last time i watched it . but that was over twenty years ago . it is true , the movie is old and obviously dated , but i was hoping for a few laughs . i felt like going outside and watching the grass grow , just to relieve the boredom . all i can say is , this movie might be funny if you are seeing for the first time , but i doubt it . you should have a backup plan , like sticking pins in your eyes . you'll be a lot more entertained . this is one truly dreadful movie , i guess maybe because audiences are more sophisticated today , and the humour is much simpler in this movie than it is today . a very low just based on its age
great premise , bad movie	cellular is an example of a movie with a good premise , which has potential , but falls flat . the basic premise is : a school teacher is kidnapped by a bunch of thugs and locked in a room . somehow , she manages to build a make shift phone and calls a random phone number for help . the person she calls happens to be on a cell phone . at first he thinks it's a joke . when she finally convinces him she is truly kidnapped , he must try to find her before it's too late . sounds good so far , right ? wrong . first off magyver couldn't have built a phone with the same materials available . that's one major flaw . another is that the director does not know how to build suspense properly , so what should have been an exciting movie was boring . the director must have went to the william friedkin school of directing , friedken being the only other director able to skillfully make any action sequence boring . i . e to live and die in la ) this is a very exclusive club but not one that many directors aspire to be in . there are many other problems with cellular , including leaps of logic and plot holes , but i won't mention them all . max
way too depressing	Enemy at the Gates is set during ww2 during the Battle for Stallingrad . It is the story of a young Russian sharpshooter named Vassili and his battle with A German sniper known as Konig sent to assassinate him . Jude Law plays Vassilli , while Ed Harris plays the German sniper , Konig . Vassilli is quickly coming to fame for the amount of Germans he has shot and killed , which is leading to low morale of the German troops . So , Konig has been sent to kill Vassili and raise the moral of the German troops . there is more going on here but this is the main thrust of the story . The movie is exceptionally bleak in every aspect and is very hard to watch . there is an air of depression throughout the movie . i will definitely not watch this movie again .
a comedy / horror hybrid without the comedy or horror	I was expecting so much from this movie . i thought it would be a sort of horror / comedy hybrid . i was right except for the horror and comedy part . man , this thing just plodded along at a snail's pace . not scary in the least , and only one sequence that could be construed as mildly amusing . but the most bizarre aspect of this movie was the music . at times it would be appropriate for the film , and other times , i thought i was a teen dance , which would have been fine , except i wasn't at a teen dance . i was watching an " alleged " horror movie . the only horror about the whole thing was the experience of sitting through it . i wanted to use my face as a pin cushion . a real drag .
lame ( in fact , you may wish you were on death row while watching this-at least you would have something to look forward to )	I'm sorry , but this movie was not good at all . the gore was not realistic , and the death scenes elicited big yawns from me . i saw no point to this movie . it is like hundreds of others and adds nothing to the horror genre . i found the acting bad even by horror movie standards . i could not finish the whole movie , because it made my jaw too sore from yawning . i don't think too many people would consider this movie a good use of their time . most people would probably stop watching long before the end . i don't know how many ways i can say this , but this movie is just not good . just in case i haven't been clear , i didn't like it . I'll give " Death Row "
i was not very impressed	( this review / comment is my own personal opinion ) this DVD really disappointed me . firstly , i found it tediously slow and boring . i don't think it was fun at all , unlike the 1960's cartoon . maybe that was the whole point , but it doesn't work for me . the 1960's cartoon may have been cheesy all around , but it was fun to watch . and had great sound effects . but his particular movie has none of that . i also think the animation is lacklustre . if you are new to Spider-Man , the origin they showed on this feature is not completely in keeping with the mythology . i had to quit watching after about 30 minutes , when i couldn't take any more . for me , this movie is a at best
just slightly above awful ( and i mean slightly )	first off , i will say this movie is better than " Anchorman : the Legend of Ron Burgundy . i mention " Anchorman " Because it has a bit of a connection to " The 40 Year Old Virgin " in that the producer of " Anchorman " ( Judd Apotow ) is also the producer of " Virgin " . i hated " Anchorman " saying in my review that " i would rather have my sinuses scraped " . while i didn't hate " Virgin " as much as " Anchorman " , i didn't think it was a good movie . there were some amusing moments , and there's a really hot chick in the movie . mostly though , i found it tedious , boring and non funny . there are many lame jokes in here and i don't mean that in any good way . this is one movie to avoid for the most part . i'll give it a for the hot chick and nothing else .
4th in the series ( in name only )	believe it or not , this movie is worse than number three . it's slower , the acting is worse , and the story is very weak . there isn't a lot of good to say about this movie . even the fight scenes are more dull than number three , and i would have thought that impossible . this is a very slow 90 minutes . painful , in fact . i stuck it through , hoping it would get better . if you really want to see this movie , you should try to find a cheap rental of it . it is hard to find ( for purchase , that is ) and probably for good reason . like number three , this movie has nothing to do with the first two . it is the same in name only . anyway , the most i can give Best of the Best : Without Warning is
where are the laughs ? ,	the certainly aren't in this movie . i did not laugh once , nor did i even smile . this is one of the most unfunny comedies i have ever seen . not only did i find it unfunny , i also found it non-entertaining . it's 88 minutes , without the closing credits , and in this case , it's 88 minutes too long . plus , the movie seems very formulaic to me , with nothing new . i hate to say it , but with this movie , they hit rock bottom , and kept digging . i didn't like Danny Devito or Mattthew Broderick in this thing . Kristen Davis was OK , but not great . the lone bright spot for me , in this movie , was Kristin Chenoweth . i thought she was pretty good as Devito's character's wife . otherwise , i don't think this movie was worth watching . for me , Deck the Halls is a
not a good movie , by any definition	this movie is not funny at all , not even mildly amusing . It is one long bore'm at a loss to understand why so many people rave about it . to be fair , it is a comedy drama / romance . it is dramatic alright , melodramatic . this is not a brilliant piece of work . there is romance , but who cares . the story is not compelling at all . as a matter of fact the whole movie is actually really depressing . however , i will say that Renee Zellweger's British accent is spot on . that is certainly no reason to recommend the movie . in fact there is no reason to recommend the movie . someone thought this thing merited sequel , which i would avoid as well . buying the DVD will definitely be money well wasted . but if you need a new coaster or a doorstop , or a Frisbee , then the disc contained in the DVD case could be an option . otherwise keep you money .
retread ( 2006 version ) improves very slightly on original ( 1977 ) ; still crap	the remake of the hills have eyes improves moderately on the original . there are fewer filler scenes , and the movie has a more clear direction . there are less drawn out , tedious sequences . things actually happen for more of purpose . no repetitive scenes of characters running around aimlessly , screening at the top of their lungs , just to fill the running time . not much suspense to speak of , but at least some action . the characters are none too bright , to be polite , so they all deserve to die . the lunatics are not scary in any way , and in fact are quite repulsive and stomach churning and not in a good way . there is of course more gore than the original , for no reason other than to show gore . pointless . the music at least is at least a very slight improvement , not grating and pointless , like the original . there is nothing new or original in this movie . really , there is not much more to say . very moderate improvement , still crap and still not worth watching . 1 . 5 & as opposed to for the original
Flash Gordon ( Saviour of the Universe Edition ) not good ( )	where to start ? right off the bat , it was apparent his was going to be one of those ' it's so bad it's good ' movies . and at first that's how i felt . soon , though the novelty wears off and the bad acting , bad writing , bad effects become annoying . plus , i could swear at times , the actors thought they were in a serious movie . but honestly , there's no real discernible plot , and the movie is a mishmash of other movies . it's all muddled . the dialogue is not good , lets just say . in my own personal opinion , there is absolutely no point to this movie . i remember seeing it when i was ten , and i liked it then . but i guess your tastes change as you get older . as for the special features , there isn't much of anything in depth . and the so called trailer for the sci-fi channels ' new Flash Gordon lasts all of about 9 seconds and shows nothing . if you are a fan of this movie , my advice is just to look for the regular version , which should be pretty cheap . and apparently , our friends overseas actually get the much better and in depth region 2 special edition which actually has features worth watching . so , if you can get you hands on a region 2 release and your DVD player supports region 2 discs ( you should find out first ) that would be your best bet . otherwise , it's a complete waste of time . but that's just one person's opinion . my vote for Flash Gordon ( Saviour of the Universe Edition )
it has David Hasselhoff ( that's not a good thing )	i honestly don't get the critics , especially those who heap praise on this film , even suggesting it is one of the funniest movies ever . as Chandler Bing ( " from " Friends " ) says - - could they BE more wrong ? most of the so called jokes in this turd are infantile at best . if you're three year old , you might find this thing amusing . but this tripe is probably beneath the intellect of most three year olds . so , why does this kind of thing get made . ? who knows . apparently there's market out there for this brand of humour . i looked high and low , but could not find Rob Schneider's name connected with this mess anywhere . if i had , the mystery would be solved . i really expect something like this effort from Schneider ( who should never be allowed near any movie set again . in fact i wish all the movie studios had a restraining order against him . that way , he can't get close enough to taint the movie ) sorry about the rant . anyway this movie does have the talented Thespian ( trust me , i'm kidding ) David Hasselhoff instead . things don't get much worse than this . i'm in a generous mood , so i'll give " Dodgeball : A true Underdog Story "
this movie is Wrong . . on so many levels	wow . this is one of the worst movies i have seen in a long time . the disgust factor is way too high in this one . i think they were going for the cheap gross out to try to shock the viewer . for me , all they succeeded in was making me nearly lose my lunch . the plot in this one is wafer thin , even for this type of movie . i'd say it was a horror movie , but it's more of a splatter fest than anything else . i don't mind gore and graphic violence in a movie , if there is a point to it . but to me , there was no point for this level of disgust . the effects and makeup are not done very well here , in my opinion . the first Wrong Turn movie was entertaining with interesting characters and some semblance of a plot . and it wasn't as unnecessarily disgusting . Wrong Turn 2 isn't even close to being in the same league . Henry Rollins is the only saving grace to this movie . as a result , i give Wrong Turn 2 : Dead End a reluctant
predictable ( yawn ) so called thriller based loosely on factual events	i saw Wolf Creek awhile ago and decided it was time to write a review on it . first off , it reminds me of Hostel , mainly because it was more brutal than necessary , in my opinion . there isn't as much gore as Hostel , but what gore there was , was taken to extreme in some scenes . it was supposedly based on a true story , but that means nothing in modern movies . the plot was nothing new , very predictable , as was much of the outcome . the one thing wolf creek has going for it is that there is some character development and so you are given the chance to feel for the characters when they are in jeopardy . i did care about what happened to the characters both from the character development and the acting which i thought was quite good . unfortunately , the same cannot be said for the rest of the movie . it has nothing new , no scares , just disgust more than anything . it is not as bad as Hostel , but for me , that's not saying much . if you must watch this movie , you should find a cheap place to rent it . but i wouldn't buy it . it's not worth it . lame .
the title says it all	i had high hopes for two came back . obviously the ending is predictable , given the title . basically , a group of friends agree to sail a yacht for someone from san diego to vancouver . along the way , they get caught in a massive storm and all but two of them perish . the main focus of the story centres not so much on the storm , but its aftermath . the crew is left adrift in the middle of the ocean and struggle to survive , as they hope to be rescued . of course as days pass , each of them deals with their plight differently and eventually , when they are rescued there are only two remaining alive . that is the gist of the story . i thought it would be a better movie than it was , but it was mostly a bore . most of the actors weren't convincing . then again , they didn't have a lot to work with dialogue wise , so they can't be faulted entirely . the scenes of the storm were pretty exciting , but fairly brief . pre teens will probably enjoy this movie , but if you are in your mid teens and older , don't expect to be too entertained .
unfunny , juvenile , infantile	i'm not sure how else to say it . the above summary pretty much describes my feelings on this movie . add to that , lots of crude language for no apparent reason , and you have the recipe for a bad movie . there is some language that Christians might be offended by . possible minor spoilerDudley Moore and Eddie Murphy appear in this movie , but as far as i know , they don't share any scenes together . at least they didn't through the forty minutes i was able to watch before quitting . end of spoiler . I found Murphy more annoying than anything , and Moore didn't really leave much of an impression at all . in all pretty much a waste of time . pretty close to awful , in fact . for me , Best Defense is a
a pointless , dull excursion	my friend and i watched the grudge on DVD , and neither one of us was impressed . it was basically a one note movie , involving a grey looking ghost / child who crawls all around on all fours and scares , even terrified its victims by opening its mouth end emitting what can only be described as a low pitched scream . some of the victims become so traumatized , they end up nearly catatonic and cannot speak of what they've seen , or heard . i mean really , this whole premise is hard to believe , because once the ghost shows itself , it is not remotely scary , forget about terrifying . the acting was not convincing in the least . i did however like the dark atmosphere of the film , which gave it a sense of foreboding . . . for all of five minutes , after which the novelty wears off . there are two things which are absolutely terrifying about the whole thing . the first is that i will never get back the minutes of my life spent watching this movie . the second is that someone thought it merited a sequel . as for the grudge itself - - - beige i . e bland and dull . pointless for the 5 minutes of atmosphere
couldn't watch more than 35 minutes before quitting due to extreme boredom	this movie has nothing to do with the first one . the actors and the characters are different . it starts out promising but quickly sputters . i could only watch it for about 35 minutes . i just found it way too slow and boring . Angie Harmon make for a compelling villain , except we are only given glimpses into her character . i know i hadn't watched it very long , but i just expected something more . i felt no tension or suspense and to be honest , i really didn't care about what happened . to me , it was just that uninteresting and not compelling . maybe sometime in the future i will attempt to watch the whole movie . in which case this review may or may not change , but as it stands , i give Glass House : The Good Mother a , based on Angie Harmon .
pointless bore beneath CharlizeTheron's talents	i'm not sure what Charlize Theron was thinking when she agreed to do this clunker . maybe she lost a bet or something . anyway , Aeon Flux is a movie way beneath her talents . she looks silly in that outfit and i get the feeling she didn't want be there . the dialogue was pathetic and cringe worthy , to say the least . the story was stupid . i will say one thing though , the movie is stylish and well photographed , there just isn't any substance . it's sort of like taking a 10 or 15 minute Saturday night live sketch and turning it into a 90 minute movie , and we all know how successful that's been . it just doesn't work . aeon flux is good as a series of short cartoons , but not as a movie . for one thing the characters are about as developed and fleshed out as they are for the cartoon . that works fine for an 8 minute cartoon , not for a movie . the movie is also painfully boring . somebody should have thought this through a bit more and stopped it way before it began filming . i'm betting it was nothing but a quick cash grab , with not much else in the way of thought entering the equation . pretty much pointless . a dud
Prescription : avoid this movie . . . and call me in the morning	there are not too many good things about this horror movie . one good thing is the performance of Larry drake as the psycho . he really puts his heart into the performance . you can tell he really has fun with the role . the only other good thing is that in the last 25 minutes or so , the movie starts to get good . the last 15 minutes in particular are really good , and there is one scene near the end which is priceless . unfortunately the first 70 + minutes are pretty lame . there really aren't enough positives are enough to make the movie worth watching . that's my opinion . anyway , this movie is part of the Twisted Terror Collection also sold in a box set also entitled The Twisted Terror Collection . there are 5 other horror movies contained in the set . as for this movie itself , i'm afraid it's terminal and the prognosis is not good .
to be bored to tears on my couch	i just don't see what all the fuss is about . many people have said this a great movie , and a good friend of mine raved about it . so , i watched it , expecting a good movie . wrong . this movie has the distinction of being the only movie i know of that can move at a frenetic pace and still be dreadfully boring . the characters aren't sympathetic , so you really don't care what happens to them . there is no character development and no reason for the characters to act the way they do . really , the whole movie had no point . if the director had slowed the movie down somewhere , rather than having what basically amounted to one big chase scene , the movie would have benefited greatly , as would the viewer . as it is , " to live and die in L . A " is to sit on your couch and be bored to tears . a complete mess . i only give this movie 2 stars because william peterson is in it
just slightly above awful	i wish i could say this is a good movie . but i would be lying . it isn't that it's awful , though it comes dangerously close at times . most of the acting is pretty bad , even for made for TV standards . much of the acting is either overacting , depending on the person . Joan Van Rark sinks to a new low in her role as the dip sh$t mayor of the small town in the path of a tornado . the dialogue she is given is laughable and her delivery is sad , to be polite . the really isn't much tension developed , considering the subject matter . there are some shots of cgi which are painfully obvious and at one point it looks like stock footage was used for on of the tornadoes . also , none of the characters are very developed , and from what we are shown , most are idiotic and unlikable . and finally , let me say that that if the majority of the human race was as dumb as these twits , we would not be around today . this film rates a only because it's not as bad as Evil dead 2 , Slither , or Lawnmower Man 2 .
funny	what a dog this thing was . i'm just glad i saw it on premium cable , and didn't lose any money on it . i did however lose 77 minutes of my life . it actually seemed like three hours before this thing finally ended . it's done in the style of the original Halloween , and the original Prom Night , but it's nowhere near as good as either of them . there are some very funny moments here , ( unintentional ) and the acting is worse than usual for this genre . the plot is also sillier than usual . yes , there are some scenes of naked women , but that is not enough to save this clunker . the only reason i got through it were the above mentioned funny moments , which i at least got a chuckle out of . for that , i give Slumber Party Massacre a
pretty awful	while not the worst movie i have seen , this one ranks right up ( or down ) there . it's a wild west / vampire movie , but it pretty much fails on both counts . there's very little action , and what little action there is is , is unexciting . the story isn't very good , although it could have been . i haven't heard dialogue this bad in a while , and it's delivered just as bad . this movie also tries to take itself seriously , which doesn't work here . there is no campiness , like there was in the first BloodRayne movie . the acting leaves a lot to be desired , and that may be because the actors realized how bad the movie was . Natassia Malthe plays the title character Rayne , and she looks pretty hot , but is given little to do , so it's hard to say if she is a good actress or not . she is given some horrendous dialogue , and doesn't come across very well , but again that could just be the material . i don't think i would base anyone's acting ability on this movie . just my opinion , of course . for me , BloodRayne II : Deliverance is a
boredom ( among other things ) reigns	oh , my word . i don't know what i just witnessed , but i know it wasn't good . this is not a good movie , at all . i'm not sure if i've ever been this bored in my life . it's supposed to be horror movie of sorts . the only problem is , they forgot to put in anything that would be scary . it's also done on the cheap , and looks it . the dialogue gives new meaning to the word abysmal . this thing may have been 95 minutes long , but it might as well have been 95 days , that's how slow it was . Tony Curtis plays a prominent role , but looks out of place in this movie . the only saving grace ( if there is in one ) is the actress who played the lead female character . she was more convincing than anyone else was . for that , i'll give The Mummy Lives a .
i didn't find it funny at all	i found this movie for a very cheap price and thought , how bad could it be . right off , i could tell the budget was next to nothing . at least it felt that way . it is supposed to be comedy , but from what i watched , it was not funny at all . i also noticed that the same manufacturer and distributer were also behind " Dan Candy's Law " . i think the production values are better on this film . at least the movement of the lips and the words matched , unlike " Dan Candy's Law " but i also thought the acting wasn't very good . Richard Pryor and Fred Williamson are the main characters , co the movie should have been funny , but to me it was not . i might try and watch it some other time , and maybe i will have a different opinion . but for right now , i didn't like it .
only the last 15 minutes or so offer any redemption to this movie	this movie isn't that great . in fact , it's not really even good . it's very slow , boring and depressive . OK , maybe depressive is what they were going for . still , there aren't many scares in this one . the characters are likable but barely developed . honestly , only the last 15 minutes offer any redemption to this movie . at that point there is a bit of suspense and action , but not enough to recommend the movie . you could save yourself a lot of time and skip the rest of the movie . otherwise , the movie feels incomplete , somehow . the other glaring problem with the movie is that the plot makes little sense , and there really is no connection between any of the the events that occur . the ending does little to tie anything up , either . probably not the worst movie you will ever see ( there are a lot of those to choose from ) still , i'm guessing , this will be closer to the bottom of most people's list than the top . i'll give it for somewhat likable characters .
fitting it's about a ghost ,	since it has no soul . i think it's supposed to be a fun family movie , but i didn't see it . not only was this movie immensely dull , it was also depressing . talk a bout all style , and no substance . i made it about halfway through before i really wanted it to end . but i managed to watch right to th end credits . it has a few minor curse words , but nothing drastic . i think it would be appropriate for anyone over 10 , depending on how mature the child is , and how liberal the parents are . anyway , i wish i could say there were some fun moments , but i can't recall any , and i just finished watching the movie less than 10 minutes ago . there were some moments i'm sure were intended as comic relief , but they all came off flatter than a pancake . this is all just my opinion , and i'm sure a lot of people enjoyed the movie . but for me , Casper gets a
convoluted , incoherent and pointless	i can't say i liked this movie very much . it has some amusing moments , but it doesn't seem able to make up its mind whether it is a comedy or a drama . it doesn't really work as either . it's too light in tone to be a drama , and the amusing moments are few and far between . it also doesn't make a lot of sense . things seem to happen for no reason . and it's also extremely convoluted . i feel like they just made things up as they were going . if they had just taken a bit of time to explain things , this might have been a better movie . i would say the ending was anti climatic , but that would mean the rest of the movie had actually been building up to something , which it didn't . it just sorts ends , and that's that . i didn't find it boring , really , but like i said , there there just isn't any point . i'll give Winter Kills a reluctant and weak
it didn't work for me	i watched this movie a few years ago and remember liking it . but not this time . honestly , this movie is just one long bore , with a bit of action thrown in occasionally . it just doesn't work for me , plain and simple . there are two good things about it though . one is the pretty decent makeup effects , and the other is the music , kind of a techno / trance cross . otherwise , this felt like one of the longest 100 minutes of my life . to me , Doom is a better movie . it's fun and doesn't take itself seriously . Maybe Resident Evil would have been better if they had made it a bit lighter , or at least added some humour . or maybe not . but for whatever reason , i just didn't like it . for me , Resident Evil is a
not what i was expecting	for me , this movie was very disappointing . for 1 thing , ( spoiler ahead ) it is marketed as a comedy , yet , in my opinion it is a drama / action movie . there are a few mildly funny scenes , and maybe 1 or 2 very funny scenes . otherwise , this isn't a funny movie . the the subject matter is fairly dark , also . especially the dramatic scenes . there is a bit of action thrown in . however , if you are expecting a drop dead funny comedy , and instead end up watching a fairly dark drama , you might be disappointed . i wish studios would stop what almost amounts to false advertising , but that's how they hook people . if i remember correctly , almost all the funny bits were in the trailer . but everybody has different tastes , so some people may find the movie hysterical . anyway , that's just my opinion . i'd have to give ' Bringing Down the House ' at best
Roth's pre Hostel effort crap , but less crap than Hostel	Cabin Fever is the first feature film directed by Eli Roth . Roth and Randy Pearlstein co wrote the script from a story by Roth . this a zombie film , which owes a lot to George Romero and his earlier " living dead movies " , and to the original Texas Chainsaw Massacrenot to mention Sam Ramie's " Evil Dead " . there is nothing original here , and the story is not compelling . the acting is about par with this genre , it's just that the story fails . we have pretty much seen this movie before and better made . having said that , after having achieved commercial , if not artistic success from this movie , Roth decided he was a director and came out with the abysmally atrocious , mean spirited , pointless ( though much more ambitious ) crap fest Hostel . Roth should have quit while he was behind . Cabin Fever is not a good film , however compared to Hostel it is a work of art . I hope somebody ( preferably a psychiatrist ) convinces this guy that film-making is the wrong career choice . as for Cabin fever , a weak for not being as abysmal as Hostel .
move along , nothing to see here	as far as horror movies go , this one has nothing new . and the movie is pretty slow , but not as slow as some . for awhile the movie was just that , a slow horror movie . but then it degenerates into some absurd subplots that have no point to the movie . the acting becomes laughable , and the movie joins it . there's some completely pointless female nudity / lesbian / vampire scenes , which scream porno , in my mind . Christine Taylor , the lead actress , was OK , but nobody else really was . and calling this a horror movie is a big stretch . it's not scary in the least . it's also predictable for the most part . i also think it should have ended way before it did . as for the ending , i didn't like it . it was pointless , but that fit well with the rest of the movie . the only reason i don't give this movie a 1 or even a 0 is because i've seen many movies worse than this . i give Room 6 a
some books just don't translate to the ( big or small ) screen	this movie was very disappointing . not only was it exceedingly depressing , but it had zero suspension or tension . the whole thing was just one long drag . some people might like it , but it definitely is not my cup of tea . i haven't read the book , but i'm sure it is heads and tails above the movie in every respect . clearly many books do not translate well onto the screen . i won't say the acting was bad , because the actors had nothing to work with . this movie is truly one of the most tedious and hardest to get through , though not the worst movie i have ever seen . but if you read the book first , you will likely be very disappointed in the movie version . this is just my opinion , of course , but i'd have to give " Mortal Fear "
nothing in the way of thrills in this one ( in my opinion )	while this isn't anywhere near the worst movie i have ever seen , i wouldn't quite say i liked it . i won't go into the plot because it's pretty evident in the title . the scenes with the creature are OK , but nothing spectacular , certainly not exciting at all . there is not much excitement in the movie at all for my tastes . the creature looks OK , but there are very few actual scenes of it shown . basically , not very much happens throughout the whole movie . i found it very ponderous to the point of boredom . the acting is not bad , but the actors have little to work with . if you're looking for excitement or thrills , this movie won't likely do it for you . like me , you'll probably have that empty and unsatisfying feeling when the movie ends , if you make it that far . from me .
if you can get through the first 50 minutes or so . . .	this is one slow movie . it's about a family who gets murdered , and their blind daughter eventually discovers they are murdered and tries to get help , while avoiding being killed . there is almost nothing happening for the 1st 50 minutes or , and then things pick up , but nit much . the killer is never revealed until the end , and the end is pretty anticlimactic . the killings seem random , but if you pay close attention from the beginning , the killer may have what he perceives as motive , though it's very murky and twisted . the one good thong about this movie is Mia Farrow , who is very effective as the blind woman who terrified and alone . other than that , though , i wasn't very impressed . for me , See No Evil is a
" I Want me Gold " . . . .	and i want me 91 minutes and 22 seconds back . but , we don't always get what we want do we ? i guess this is supposed to be a horror comedy combination . well , if so , they left out the horror part . actually , they left out the comedy part too . mostly , this movie very slow and boring , but believe it or not , there are worse movies out there . Warwick Davis plays the Leprechaun , and it looks like has a blast in the role and is not taking it seriously at all , which is one good thing in the movie . Jennifer Aniston is also in this movie , which came out about a year before " Friends " . anyway , this movie spawned 5 sequels so far , and to be perfectly honest , it doesn't merit any sequels . for me , " Leprechaun " is a
I think i must have missed something	this movie is allegedly a comedy . so where did all the laughs go . did the forget to put them in , on the version i watched . as a football movie , it is mildly entertaining , i guess . maybe'm just a stick in the mud , with no discernible sense of humour . or maybe this movie just isn't funny . it is also annoying , with that way over the top " you're a winner " musical score . and the odd thing is , the team sucked through most of the season , only winning the last two games , and the last game meant nothing since they were not in the playoffs . so what is the point ? are they celebrating mediocrity ? I don't see it . if anybody knows , please let me know . anyway , this movie isn't great or even very good . i'm giving it a low
a sequel to 1974's Chinatown , lacking the same spark and imagination	this movie is the sequel to 1974's Chinatown . Jack Nicholson directed this film and stars again as Jake Gittes . Robert Towne wrote the script and the movie is based on characters created by him . it is hard not to compare this movie to its predecessor and comparisons are inevitable . so here goes . First off this movie plods along at a snail's pace . there doesn't seem to be a clear direction . Also , Gittes seems less likable this time around . the surrounding characters seem to lack any real imagination , as do the situations . put simply , there is no spark . and the femme fatalle angle , which worked so well in the original , doesn't work here . but then who could fill the shoes of the mega star charismatic actress Faye Dunnaway ? no-one . so , the femme in this case is less fatalle . the script is also lacking in imagination , giving the director ( Nicholson ) less to work with . you will be bored nearly to tears here . a disappointing followup to Chinatown . , as a stand alone film , however-also disappointing . this movie is not quite awful , but not quite good either . not recommended .
easily the weakest of the franchise	while i actually liked the first two Candyman movies , i didn't ' like this third and ( so far Final ) installment . i found it boring and repetitive and i didn't like the story very much . there's a lot of filler here , which suggests to me that the filmmakers didn't have enough of a story for a complete movie . i also wasn't too impressed with the acting . there was a lot of overwrought theatrics . as well , there were some things in this movie that did not fit with the previous movies , basically throwing out certain aspects of the lore . maybe i'm just imagining things , but this is my opinion on things . finally , this movie has none of the style of the second movie . adding it all up , this third installment in the series is much lower in quality on all counts . my vote for Candyman 3 : Day of the dead is a
sucks	well , this movie was pretty bad . bad acting , bad story , mediocre special effects , and bad dialogue . the two main actors , Kristy Swanson and Judd Nelson seemed to be phoning in their performances just for a pay check . the supporting cast wasn't great either . the story was silly , and very slow . and i'm no physicist , but i'm guessing a lot of the science was inaccurate . in some movies , that doesn't matter to me . for example f the movie is exciting or has sympathetic characters , or a good storyline . this movie has none of those . i just could not get into this movie , and really just waited for it to end . the ending was abrupt and anti climatic , which isn't really surprising since the whole movie was anti climatic . for me , The Black Hole is a
spectacular views and not much else of consequence	lately , it seems the last few movies i have reviewed have basically been of the wall to wall action and realty defying stunts category . the same holds true for this movie . the only difference is , most of the action and stunts happen to occur high above sea level . on mountain to be exact . i actually almost hated this movie . there's little in the way of script , but to be far they just didn't have any room for it , what with all the explosions and stunts . the one redeeming feature this movie has-is the scenery . there are very breathtaking views . but other than that , i can't muster much enthusiasm . to tell the truth , despite nothing but stunt after stunt after explosion , several yawns escaped . i was bored out of my gourd . not a good sign . but , because of the spectacular views , i'll give " Vertical " Limit "
from the producers of Knocked Up and The 40 year Old Virgin	it seems i'm in the minority here , but i didn't really like this movie . i just had no interest in it . i sort of chuckled at one moment , but that's about . i watched for 40 minutes , hoping it would get better , but it didn't . i guess it's just not my kind of humour . it's from the producers of The 40 Year Old Virgin and Knocked Up , so if you liked those two movies , you might like this movie . there's a lot of foul language , including very frequent use of the f-bomb . it's definitely not for the easily offended . to me , the movie seemed like a bunch of skits strung together , rather than a whole movie , but that's just me . for me , Superbad is a
i really enjoyed The Littlest Hobo	maybe it's just me , but i thought this TV series was poor , at least until the last few episodes . for one thing , i just didn't buy any of the actors . they just didn't seem to be putting much effort into it , nor did o find the characters very interesting . i also felt the tone of the movie was too lite for the subject matter . i actually felt like i was watching an episode of The Littlest Hobo , that's ' how much depth i felt the show had . there's also a lot of repetition going on . if you watch the show , you'll understand . then there's the matter of the parents of one of the main characters . to me , they seemed like stock characters , with little to really do . they may as well have not been in the show . i also felt the series moved way too slow and was not very engaging , until the last 2 or 3 episodes . it's no wonder the show only lasted a season , and the fact that it did is amazing . since the last 3 episodes were an improvement over the rest of the series , i give Surface
i hate to say this but i was underwhelmed by this movie	OK , i'm certain i'm in the minority here , but whatever . i did not like Citizen Kane . first off , i didn't think it was profound at all . i also didn't think the look of the film was that great . many people say it has a great visual style , but i disagree completely . how this movie is number one all time on some lists is beyond me . to say this movie was a drag is understating things . there was and is too much hype for this movie . so it's directed by and stars Orson Welles . even worse is Welles is widely regarded as a genius as a result . big hairy deal . i was bored out of my skull . considering this movie is considered sacred and any negative comment is blasphemy , i'm glad nobody knows where i live , otherwise i fear i may be hunted down and killed . not too many people are likely to pay attention to this comment , but i don't care . this is how i feel about Citizen Kane . maybe i'm a complete idiot , or maybe i'm just missing something . either way , this movie rates a at best .
what do a turtle , a snail , and a sloth have in common ?	answer-they all move faster than this movie . man , this thing is a real coma inducing yawner . the rating is higher than i think it should be ( ) . if you're expecting to laugh , you can forget about it . this movie has very little going for it . i can only come up with two positives . one is Anne Archer , who is still a stunner at age 57 in 2005 , when this movie was released . the other positive is that there were a couple good songs . other than that , it's painful experience and a loss of 100 minutes of life , which will not come back . i didn't think this would be a great movie , but i thought it might be decent . i found it hard to actually finish watching , but i stuck with it . hopefully i can convince others not to waste their precious time . for me , " Man of the House " is a
too much forced humour , very few laughs	hmmm . this movie was definitely not as good as the first one . they tried too hard for laughs this time around . in the first one , they made the laughs seem so effortless . this time there were too many pratfalls , too much physical comedy . there was like the first film a couple of very funny scenes , but the rest was too forced . they tried to jam to much comedy into the movie , at the expense of everything else . the actors weren't as convincing in this film . most of the film bordered on being absurd , even ludicrous , and not in a good way . fairly lame all around actually . i'm glad they stopped at 2 , because a 3rd one would have been beyond ridiculous .
poorly conceived and executed	weird . this is a TV movie , yet the rating on the box says it's rated R . there's nothing in the movie that would remotely qualify for an R rating . aside from that , though , the movie is very slow and pointless . i mean the idea was good , but nothing was done with the storyline . it just wasn't developed . it's mildly creepy , and the acting is actually quite good , better than the movie deserves . i don't see myself watching it again anytime soon , if ever . there have been other movies dealing with the same concept which are better made than this one . i haven't seen too many Wes Craven Films , so i can't really compare it to any of his others . as for this movie itself though , i think it is poorly conceived and poorly executed . for me , i can't give Chiller a higher rating than
totally unnecessary remake	why ? why remake a true modern classic ? maybe the filmmakers thought they could make a few quick bucks . a few bucks is more than they deserve for this movie . the director tried to sex up the movie , i guess for modern audiences , but this was one thing that ruined the movie . there aren't many scares to speak of and the acting was okay , i guess but not great by any stretch . i didn't feel invested in any of the characters . i also didn't like the way they changed the ending . it wasn't logical and didn't fit with the plot . the only decent thing was the special effects and that was a small part of the movie . not enough to recommend it . i give it low three , based on the effects alone . not a worthy remake . unnecessary
overrated maudlin inspirational speech	many people love this movie , some even calling it a work of art . however , i must respectfully disagree . i found the movie uninspiring , at best , at mostly one long bore . if you like your movies heavy on sap , you will like this movie . this movie at times felt like one long " i'm okay , your okay , we're all okay " inspirational speech . if i want motivational advice , i'll go see Anthony Robbins or some other guru . all kidding aside other than the film's heavy handedness , there are a few good thing about it . the acting was good , the special effects were decent . the best thing about the movie , however is its 1960's and 70's soundtrack . despite it good points , the movie is not worth recommending .
i don't see the appeal	maybe it's just me , but while watching this movie , i was reminded of Napoleon Dynamite , which i thought was a depressing bore . while i don't think this movie was as bad , i still didn't really enjoy it . i found it unfunny , and not amusing . i didn't really care about the characters . i didn't get the jokes , and i don't understand the appeal of the movie , but that's just me . if you liked Napoleon Dynamite , you might like Hot Rod . for some reason , the last 20 minutes or so became mildly interesting , though i'm not sure why . Sissy Spacek and Ian McShane are in this movie , and i think their talents deserve better than this . this probably sounds a bit harsh , but the most i can give this movie is a
a horror movie without horror . . . or suspense . . or tension	i just watched night of the living dead on scream channel . suffice to say , i wasn't very impressed . there was zero tension in the whole movie . i was too bored to care about the characters . and what's with that ending ? it seems like it was tacked on , when they couldn't think of any other way to end it . it was just over . there was no logic behind it . another failure i thought was the so called makeup effects , which did not look at all real . and if you watch carefully some of the actors playing zombies were not always in character , that is they didn't act like zombies . i can't compare it to the original , which i haven't seen , but i will say it doesn't compare with the 2005 version of dawn of the dead , or even 2006's land of the dead . if i could describe this movie in one word , it would be - - underwhelming
bloated	i thought the original Poseidon Adventure ( 1972 ) was a very good disaster movie , while this 2005 update , a near 3 hour miniseries , is a near disaster itself . this thing is bloated and overwrought . the dialogue borders on silly ( to be kind ) at times , and there is an an abundance of over acting . there are some decent actors , here , but most are wasted . i especially thought Adam Baldwin was particularly pointless . the one saving grace in this dept . is Rutger Hauer , who i thought was effective in his role as a bishop . SPOILER AHEADthere is no rogue wave , which causes The Poseidon to capsize . in fact , there are no waves at all . instead , the makers of the movie decided to make this about terrorism , so a bomb capsizes the ship . END OF SPOILERalso , this movie is not very exciting , and it just goes on too long . it certainly does not hold a candle to the original , and it is not even as good as Beyond The Poseidon Adventure , the sequel to the original . for me , The Poseidon adventure ( 2005 ) is a weak
cybernetic dog goes on killing spree , but why ?	well , . i'm not sure what i was expecting , but this wasn't it . the plot for this thing is all over the map , with some subplots added in that have very little relevance . actually , the movie has very little relevance . the acting was not good and the dialogue was forgettable . as for the dog , it was not realistic . it was very clear that many of its movements were controlled by puppeteers . the look of the dog was ugly , but not scary . there were buckets of gore in this movie , and poorly done . i hope the makeup and prosthetic teams didn't get paid very much . also , there was no back story explaining the dog's evolution and motivation for killing . it just seemed to kill out of blood lust . what led to that ? the ending was very bleak and morbid and the last scene is a complete rip off of terminator 2 , but with the cyborg as a dog . honestly , there wasn't much point to this movie . it was mildly entertaining at best . / 10
pretty boring and lame	this is an episode of the New Scooby Doo movies from 1972 . it has Scooby and the gang meeting up with the Harlem Globe Trotters and running into a mystery , ( naturally ) with ghosts , and a sea serpent . this episode is very slow and and the story is kinda lame . there's a few good lines courtesy of the Globe Trotters , but otherwise it's pretty boring . and that laugh track drove me nuts . by the way , not to give anything away , but the episode takes place in America , not Scotland , so the words Loch Ness in the title don't mean anything . anyway , you'd think this might be an interesting story , since it features the Harlem Globe Trotters , but it isn't . they didn't even have the real voices of the Globe Trotters , for whatever reason . the most i can give this episode is a
forget this one , check out the superior sequel instead	i actually commented on the sequel to this movie , thinking i would never bother to write a comment on this one . the sequel is actually not bad , but the original is not so good . i found it boring and mean spirited even for a so called horror movie . it doesn't really make a lot of sense either . and i found it depressing as anything . plus , the ending was just ridiculous . i know the sequel didn't necessarily make a lot of sense . but it had other positives going for it , like excitement , and a really nifty looking creature . anyway , i pretty much hated the original , and although it's not the worst movie i have seen , it is pretty bad . my advice , skip this movie and check out the sequel instead . for me , Jeepers Creepers is a
oh , brother	i hate to say this , but this movie is dumb , even for a Van Damme flick . the story is stupid and slow and has no flow at all . the fight scenes are nothing special , similar to blood sport but pale in comparison . Roger Moore is in this one , and may be the only good thing about this mess . and just once , is it too much to ask for Van Damme to actually sound like his character is from the locale in the movie . his accent never changes , no matter what nationality his character is supposed to be . in this one He plays Christopher Dubois , a Frenchman in NewYork in the mid 1920's . how about playing a character with a NewYork accent ? it's obvious Van Dammme never took any dialect lessons or tried to change his accent in any way , which is what makes most of his movies more than a bit absurd . and don't even get me started on the title . i mean " The Quest " , how original . but then again the movie has no originality either , so i guess it's fitting that the title should follow suit . anyway , Van Damme directed and co-wrote the story with Frank Dux . all i can muster is for Roger Moore
second filmed version of Richard Matheson's novel , I am Legend	this is the second filmed version of Richard Matheson's novel , I am Legend , the first being The Last Man on Earth , starring Vincent price , and the third bearing the same title as the novel and , starring Will Smith . i really enjoyed the first version , and pretty much hated the third version . this version is , much closer to the third version , in terms of my opinion of it . i found a lot of this movie lame , lacking in any real excitement . the acting was pretty poor ( though Heston wasn't too bad ) . i also felt the movie was a bit too talky at times , and there is no real air of mystery to the story . having said that , there was one good thing about it . this one had a plot , ( as slow as it was ) which i felt the third one didn't . it was just this side of boring , for the most part , occasionally slipping over into the area of boredom . i was able to get through it . but i wouldn't care if i never saw it again . it just really didn't anything for me . my vote for The Omega Man is a
a real dog	while i didn't mind the original The Shaggy Dog ( 1959 ) , i thought this sequel was not too good . i found it way too silly and absurd , and not realistic . by that , i'm not talking about the premise , a man transforms into a dog . that i can accept as being within the confines of the movie . what i found unrealistic was how most of the characters acted and or reacted . too say there was some overacting going on would be a massive understatement . i also didn't find the characters endearing . i did however find them annoying . and the acting in general was unimpressive . and i found the ending abrupt with no real resolution . i'd say this would be a good family movie , a family comprised of only 3 year olds . maybe they ran out of money or time . whatever . this film had none of the fun or charm of the original . for me , The Shaggy D . A . is a weak
no comedic chemistry between Ford and Hartnett	i was so disappointed with this movie . a buddy cop film with Josh Hartnett and Harrison Ford should have had potential , shouldn't it ? Ford and Hartnett play two cops who are partners and who also have second hobs to make ends meet or to have financial independence . they are called in to investigate the murder of a rap group . hilarity should ensue , right ? if by hilarity , you mean endless yawning , then yeah , hilarity ensues . this one really hurt my brain . it was agonizingly boring to the nth degree . i think i saw this at a cheap theatre , but what ever i paid was exactly that amount more than i should have paid . i think they should have payed me to see this thing . i think the real problem with this movie , is their is no chemistry ( the comedic kind ) between Ford and Hartnett and that pretty much sinks the whole movie . for me , " Hollywood Homicide " is a
close to awful	i had high hopes for this movie before watching it . but , maybe i shouldn't have . after all , it does star Tom Arnold . some of the films he is in are OK , especially where he is not the main character . but this one , not so much . it's billed as a comedy , but that entails laughter . it's based on the 1962 series of the same name , supposedly . if that's case , the makers of the TV show should sue the makers and actors involved in this movie for defamation . i like Debra Messing , but she picked the wrong movie to be a part of . Tim Curry also stars , playing a variation of every bad guy he has ever played . the plot is silly , to be kind . the back cover promises madcap adventure and and zaniness . maybe it's a typo . it's no wonder this movie tanked at the box office . for me , McHale's Navy is a
i guess the dramatic parts are alright ( i could have worn this was marketed as a comedy )	i'm sorry to say , that as a comedy , this movie isn't funny . there are maybe one or two somewhat amusing scenes , otherwise , there's not much here to laugh about . the movie is basically about a crime lord ( Robert Deniro ) who decides he needs a psychiatrist to get in touch with his inner feelings . turns out , he's quite insecure . so he enlists the help of Dr . Ben Sobel ( Billy Crytal ) who very reluctantly and with a little persuasion , takes him on as a patient . sounds like it could be funny , right . well , for whatever reason , it's not . in fact , it's excruciatingly boring at times . it's not the actors . there all fine . well , mostly , anyway . Chazz Palminteri is decent in supporting role , but Lisa Kudrw is completely wasted in this movie . it has a rating of on this site . for me , i'm afraid it's nowhere near that . " Analyze This " gets a from me .
poor western	this western / musical / comedy is not one of the best of the genre i have seen . i found it much too slow . it just plodded along to the inevitable end . i also found it disjointed . i couldn't wait for it to be over . Randolph Scott is the headliner here , and Lloyd Bridges also stars . but for my money money Edgar Buchanan is the best of the bunch . Buchanan appeared in many westerns in his day , many times providing comic relief , as he does in this picture . i also liked Ann Dvorak as Rita . otherwise , though , i can't think of much to recommend this movie . the movie is based on a novel by Ernest Haycock , who also wrote the novel Stagecoach , which was mad into a movie of the same name in 1939 , and remade in 1966 and again in 1986 . The 1939 version of Stagecoach , is in my mind , one of the best movies ever made . anyway . as for Abilene town , my vote is a
very interesting premise ; script does not do it justice	this is an interesting tale as far as ghost stories go . i won't go into the plot because i don't want to give anything away . unfortunately , the premise is interesting , but the rest of the movie plods along at a snail's pace . there is next to no action . the story is very dialogue driven and not enough is done with the premise . the movie is almost incomplete in a sense because the central issue is barely explored , and very little background is given as to the reasons for the strange goings on in the town , ( true we are given some surface explanation ) at least not in depth . there really is no payoff , no climax to speak of . the movie ends as quietly as it began . the acting in the move is good , the movie is photographed well , but the script doesn't do justice to its central theme . i'd have to say Population 436 rates due to its creative though ultimately unexplored plot line .
i'd watch it on cable or as a cheap rental first	my sister and i just watched this movie yesterday , so i thought i would put in my two cents . she liked it more than i did . i didn't think it was very funny . in fact , i never laughed once . but i did think it was passable entertainment , for the most part . a few times i did get bored though . i just found it hard to believe that the people on one street in town would go to so much trouble to make one family celebrate Christmas . and for me , i didn't fee any chemistry between Tim Allen and Jamie Lee Curtis , who played the husband and wife who decided to skip Christmas this year . Dan Akroyd played the neighbour who had the most influence in town , and tried to get the Cranks ( Allen and Curtis ) to celebrate the season . mostly i just found him annoying . M . Emmet Walsh was in the movie , and i liked his character . anyway , overall , i'd say this is a movie to catch on cable or as a cheap rental . interestingly , this movie is based on a John Grisham novel , called Skipping Christmas . i wouldn't rate it any higher than
for a movie base on joyous occasion , i didn't find it very joyous	i don't know what to think about this movie . i didn't hate it but i didn't really like it either . here's why . i thought the whole atmosphere of the the movie was sad , almost depressing at times . and i felt the music overpowered the movie at times . it just got to be a bit too much . normally the colour scheme of a movie isn't something i think about . however , this movie seems to have colours that were much too muted for it's subject matter . the colours just weren't very bright . i'll admit that the movie approaches being something close to magical at times , but , for me , it doesn't quite get there . it's also slow paced . i think even children will be bored with it at times . for me , the movie was more of a loud spectacle than anything else . i don't think too many people will be filled with joy while watching this movie . it's bearable at best , at least in my opinion . my vote for Santa Claus : The Movie is a
if you liked An American Werewolf in London , . . . ( )	you will likely be sorely disappointed by this sequel that's not a sequel . AWIL is a classic . but this movie is about as far from being a classic as you can get . what a joke . special effects that aren't very special , horrible dialogue , non acting . and a laughably ridiculous subplot quickly and unconvincingly , ( not to mention fleeting ) tacked on with about a third of the movie left . did i mention the story is less then lame . there's no way this was supposed to be serious horror movie , yet it's to stupid to be funny in any good way . the rating it currently has ( ) is too generous if you ask me . my rating for An American Werewolf in Paris : a
substandard John Wayne western	this western is more of a character study than anything else , and a romance . there isn't a lot of action . it's not the worst movie i have seen , but i do felt it went on too long . i felt it was too tedious . there were several times when i thought it was over , and could / should have been over , but it kept going . i think they could have told just as good a story if they had shortened the film . it's definitely not one of my favourite westerns , nor one my favourite John Wayne westerns . it's certainly no classic , in my opinion . i know many people would disagree with that sentiment , which is fine . i wouldn't likely watch it again , at least for a long time . for me , Angel and the Badman is a
think Cujo but with more and smarter dogs	this movie has elements of other movies , some better ( Cujo , Man's Best friend ) some not as good ( Rottweiler ) . the idea of a group of people stranded on an island and fighting for their lives is nothing new , either . this particular movie doesn't really add anything new to the genre . it's also pretty slow , with not very much suspense or tension . yet i found it just interesting enough to be entertaining . by entertaining , i mean , i think's worth a cheap rental , and i wouldn't buy it unless you can get it cheap . for me , the movie held promise , but just didn't deliver . i wasn't overly interested in any of the characters . for me , The Breed is a
felt more like a romance movie than anything else	i didn't really like this movie . i found it too boring and slow , without much of a pay off . also , to me it was more of a romance movie than anything . there are a couple good scenes of some twisters , but not enough . the acting was okay , i guess , but not spectacular . of all the movies of this genre i've watched , this is one of the slowest . if you do watch this movie , be prepared to sit through some really slow scenes before the action begins . and once the action begins , it is all too brief . i would'nt say this movie is atrocious , because i have seen a lot of worse movies in my time . however , i will say that this movie just didn't do it for me . i'd have to give ' Storm Chasers : Revenge of the Twister '
boring ! boring !	this Al Pacino vehicle didn't do much for me . Pacino plays a playwright struggling with writing his latest play , while dealing with all kinds of personal issues . i found it boring , boring , and more boring . i just didn't see the point of it all . to say it's moves at a sedate pace is an understatement . it hardly moves at all . Pacino is good , but i felt his character is underwritten . the kids are cute , but not enough to carry the movie . in short , i couldn't wait for this thing to end . i really wanted to turn it off several times , but i stuck it through to the bitter end . it wasn't worth it . but that's just my opinion , maybe i'm wrong . for me , Author ! Author rates a
great potential , but suffers from too many flaws	independence day looked like it could be a good , even great movie . it has great actors , and loads of action . it also has some humour courtesy will smith and jeff goldblum . goldblum is the perfect straight man for smith's witty quips and one liners and even ads a bit of his own brand of comedy to the mix . these two play off each other very well , and there is undeniable comedic chemistry between the two . the supporting cast is also very strong . and then there is the premise . aliens invade the world and the military must save the day . not a bad premise , although not original . there must be something new added to the mix or this becomes just another alien invasion movie . the question is , is there anything original in this movie ? true , the comedic element is a step in the right direction . but is in enough own its own ? not quite . there are problems which overshadow the positive aspects of the film , one of them being the special effects , which admittedly are well done . however , they are overpowering in this movie . the viewer is bombarded with explosion after explosion . independence day becomes a movie about the special effects , so the characters take a back seat for most of the movie . true , there are some touching dramatic moments in the middle to latter stages of the film , but the characters are not given enough screen time to be developed , so there is less of the human feel than there might otherwise be . another problem is the film goes more than a little overboard with the flag waving patriotism . there is nothing wrong with patriotism , unless it is taken overboard . there is an inspirational speech given by the the American president , which seems like it is patterned after a speech by winston churchill during the second world war . however , in this case it comes of as maudlin and absurd . bill pullman , fine actor he may be , is no winston churchill , and does not have the charisma or screen presence to carry this speech off . it is a real eyes glazed over and rolled back in the head moment . not believable . which lead us to the dialogue . aside from the president's speech there are are other examples of cringe worthy dialogue . the actors cannot therefore take total responsibility for this . the writers should shoulder some of the blame . finally there is the discovery which leads to the eventual defeat of the aliens . in my my mind the odds of things happening this way are astronomical at best . so , basically the movie ( although entertaining ) fails for the most , and is moderately successful in other parts . end result : out of 10
i expected something more , but young kids will probably like it	i kinda expected something else . what , i'm not sure . i mean the movie is well made and all , but i found it dangerously close to being boring at times . it is pretty slow . the scenes with the whale ( s ) were nice though . and the there are some pretty touching moments . i didn't find the movie had a lot of realism to it though . the way some of the things happened just didn't ring true . but , i guess the biggest problem i had was there wasn't really much sense of adventure , and the movie isn't really fun . however , if you are looking for a movie the whole family can watch , this might be it . most kids will probably be entertained , and adults will be happy there is something their kids can watch . but for me , Free Willy is a .
pretty tedious ( painfully at times )	before anything else , i should mention that this movie was originally in 3d , but on this disk , the movie is not in 3d . the " Jaws " series falters quite a bit , with this entry . i found the story too hokey for my taste . this movie also strays from the formula of the first two , opting for me spectacle and noise than anything . Dennis Quaid , Louis Gossett Jr , and Simon MacCorkindale are in this one . Lea Thompson also has a small role . i feel pretty confident in saying this movie was not a shining moment in any of their careers . most of the film is a stinker and very tedious . the only saving grace is the last 35 minutes or so , where there is some action and a tiny amount of intensity , along with a twist of sorts , i guess . otherwise , there is not much to recommend here . it's nowhere near the worst movie i have seen to date . that title belongs to " Dracula 3000 " , which i don't see being dethroned any time soon . but , back to " Jaws 3 " i don't think i can muster more than for this one .
i found it mildly entertaining , and informative to a point	for me , this film was mildly entertaining at best . it has a lot of information , but how accurate it is , is any body's guess . the filmmakers have their view on things , and so the film probably reflects their views . i'm sure a lot of what they show and say is accurate to a point , but i think some things you have to take with a grain of salt , like most things . i think you sort of have to come to your own conclusions . this is just my opinion , of course . anyway , the film basically deals with trying to find out the identities of the M . P . A . A . the people who make up the Motion Picture Association of America . these are the people who give ratings to films . i found it interesting how the filmmakers went about trying to uncover their names but i also think that maybe the M . P . A . A . has has some good reasons for wanting the identities of its members kept secret . i mean , they may hand down a rating for a film which could negatively affect its box office and critical performance . that could mean lost revenue . you can imagine a filmmaker being angry over receiving an N-17 ( the kiss of death ) instead of an R . so maybe thee identities of the people on the ratings board are kept secret to protect them . i don't really know , i'm just speculating . the other thing is that the ratings board is not part of the government . they are an independent body , and they are not elected , so in my view , they shouldn't have to reveal their identities . doing so might give them a better relationship with filmmakers though , or it might not . . there is some other stuff in the movie , as well , but i found a lot of the stuff dry and not that interesting . i agreed with some things the filmmakers said and i disagreed with some things as well . anyway , i think the film is an OK way to waste 90 minutes or so , but i didn't find it profound or earth shattering . but again , that's just my personal opinion . the film might be more interesting if you watch it with a group of people . at the very least , it could provide some lively discussion , and get people thinking . anyway , like i said , theses are just my views . i should mention there is a lot of nudity and foul language in the movie , so this might not be to your taste . there is some violence , but i felt it wasn't that graphic . in my opinion , This Film is Not Yet Rated is a
huh . . .	i had read a lot of comments saying this was a terrible movie , that depicted the Green Berets in an inaccurate lite . i don't know too much about that subject , but i did watch the movie , and i was disappointed . i thought it was a real mess . tonally speaking , it was all over the place , at times lightly comedic , at times dramatic , and other times semi serious . i don't think this movie was intended to be a comedy , but it comes off in spots like an episode of the TV series M . A . S . H . my own opinion is that this particular subject was treated much liter than it should have been , and with less respect . as for entertainment value , even the action scenes were not that great , and in the dramatic moments , i felt that most of the actors weren't really putting a lot of effort into it . plus , the movie was quite preachy , with as much subtlety as sledge hammer to the head . the current rating is a , but i wouldn't give it that much . for me , The Green Berets is a
could have been so much better	i didn't particularly think much of this movie . there isn't really a lot of substance to it . at times it feels like a recruitment ad more than movie . and i also found it a bit too preachy , yet i don't quite know what kind of message it was trying to send . really it was sending mixed messages . basically , i found it confusing . plus , there are some things that don't make sense , which i won't get into here . Tom Cruise barely has any screen time , nor Does Meryl Streep , for that matter . Robert Redford , who also directed the movie , has the most screen time , but even his time is limited . anyway , i wouldn't really recommend this movie to anyone , but that's just my opinion . for me , Lions for Lambs is a disappointing
boring , tedious and unfunny ( )	i don't know where to begin with this movie . i mean it isn't as sick as number two , but it is less funny than one or two . it's not as low brow , but there aren't really any laughs here . i found it quite boring and tedious , for the most part . there were some parts that may have been intended as being funny , but they come off just plain dumb . The only bright spot in this movie ( if there is one ) is Anna Farris , who has a lot of talent , but ii think she is wasted in this movie . there are also a few scenes which are in poor taste . overall , this i think this movie is a drop in quality from the first two . for me , Scary Movie 3 is a at most .
too talky and slow ( )	i wanted to like this movie , and i really tied . but in the end , i just couldn't justify it . it's billed as a comedy , except it's not funny . or even amusing . i will say that the two lead actors , Daryl Hannah and Dudley Moore are appealing , as are their characters . but the movie is just too slow and talky for my tastes . and there's also too much swearing for no good reason . it doesn't add anything to the movie , and it doesn't really have any relevance . the movie has an ensemble cast of well knowns from the time period ( in this case , 1990 ) , but they can't save this movie . it's not quite horrible , but it certainly isn't very good , either . for me , Crazy people is a
too much slow drama , not enough action for my taste	i though this film was okay . i din't think it was great . it was a bit too slow for my taste . lots of drama , but not very much action until close to the end of the film . this movie was basically a dramatic film , with the payoff , if you can call it that , not until near the end . to me , the scenes of the dam bursting and the water flooding the town , were okay , but much too brief . the film itself is done okay , the acting is decent , but it just didn't do it for me , in the long run . think it had something to do with the fact that there was very little suspense or tension built through the whole movie . at least that's what i think . the other factor is that i had just recently watched ' 10 . 5 ' and its sequel ' 10 . 5 : Apocalypse ' . these are 2 big budget " event movies , which , in my opinion , are a very hard act to follow , in terms of special effects and scenes of destruction . as a result , i have to rate Killer Flood : the Day the Damn Broke at
falsely advertised as a comedy	i found this Robin Williams vehicle mildly amusing at best . i guess you would call it a political satire of sorts . it's about a political talk show host / comedian who decides to run for president and unexpectedly wins . i found most of the humour dry myself , and Robin Williams is much more restrained and sedate than usual . i would say the movie is more of a drama than a comedy , with a bit of mystery and suspense . i think the dramatic parts worked better than the comedy parts , and the mystery and suspense aspect ( though that's a small part of the movie ) worked the best . still , i wouldn't rate this movie very high . for me , it was an OK waste of 2 hours , but nothing special . my best advice would be to catch it on TV / cable or rent it cheap first , before making a decision on whether to purchase . my vote for Man of The Year is a
lacklustre story , too many songs	this animated movie was OK , i guess , but nothing special . the most annoying thing about it , to me , was that there were too many musical numbers , and not enough story . plus , the musical numbers themselves were kinda mundane , in my opinion . and they slowed the whole movie down , ruining any flow it might have had . the animation didn't really stand out , either . this is not a movie for young children . there are a few moments which would be a bit scary for them . there were a few funny moments , but not enough to elevate the movie . i also felt the voice actors didn't always suit the characters . finally , the movie just wasn't fun . overall , a disappointing effort .
disappointing in the extreme	the best thing about this movie is that there are more scenes with the whales . other than that , i can't say i liked it very much . it is shorter than the first one , but feels a lot longer . this movie felt too much like an ecology lesson to me , and it wasn't subtle either . i just found the whole thing overwrought , and i though there was a bit of overacting going on . they had a subplot going on , which i didn't think was necessary , but that's just me . there were some emotional scenes , but i felt like i was being manipulated . towards the end , there are a few tense moments , but overall , the movie is disappointing . if it weren't for the scenes with the whales , this would be a 1 or 2 star movie . i guess for me , Free Willy 2 is a
boring	i know this is called Jason Takes Manhattan , butspoiler aheadManhattan has nothing to do with the movie until less than 20 minutes remain . end of spoiler . anyway , this is one boring movie . i had to fight from turning it ff before the end . there are a couple of funny moments , particularly the reaction ( or rather non reaction ) of the New Yorkers to Jason . mostly though , the movie is just silly . i guess most of the movies in the series are silly , but this movie is silly even in the confines if the series . for me , it's the worst one of the first 8 . but that's just me . my vote for Friday the 13th Part VIII : Jason takes Manhattan is a
the worst of the Scooby Doo movies i have seen so far	for me , this is probably the worst Scooby Doo animated movie i have seen . i found it boring and not that funny compared to other Scooby adventures . the i didn't think the story was very good either . there seemed to be a lot more repetition than in other Scooby movies . there are also a few elements missing from this particular movie ( that i most Scooby Do movies ) and one element that was nothing other than annoying and i really could have done without . those elements are that only Shag and Scoob are in this movie . the rest of Mystery , INC are absent . the element i could have done without is the inclusion of Scrappy Doo , which to me is a pointless character . i had to struggle not turn this movie off before the end . this is the exception with Scooby Doo movies , so far in my experience . for me " Scooby Doo Meets the Boo Brothers " is a
i don't see it	i did not like this animated offering from Pixar . i didn't think it was funny , or even amusing . i did however find it loud and boring . i actually couldn't finish watching his thing , i was that bored . i really wanted to like it , but it did nothing for me . although all is not lost , since i now have something to practice skeet shooting with . i don't know why i didn't like this movie . it just didn't seem to have the zip and wit that many Pixar creations have . the physical comedy bits all fell flatter than a pancake for me . maybe i'm just out to lunch with this movie . it wouldn't be the first time , and i'm sure it won't be the last time . oh well . i will say the movie was well made and looked nice , so that's something . for me , Ratatouille is a
pretty weak old style animation	this old style animation movie might be likable by young kids , but that might be a bit of a stretch . it's just too slow , with a story that isn't very strong . plus it tries to be dark at times and lite at others . the amusing bits are overdone , and not really amusing . again , young kids might find these sequences funny . yet the movie is also a bit too dark , in my opinion , for young kids . so it's hard to say who the movie would be suitable for . or maybe i'm just blowing it out of proportion , and young kids would have no problem with it . for me though , i just found the whole thing a bit too weak . my vote for the animated version of The Snow Queen is a
very clever and funny , but . . .	most of this movie is very funny . i laughed hard a lot . it's very silly in spots , and some of the songs go on too long , but that wasn't a major issue with me . if you're very religious , you will find a lot of issues with this movie , as the Catholic Church is lambasted mercilessly . again , that wasn't a major issue with me . no , the problem i has with the movie begins with chapter 17 , which is about 65 minutes , i believe . up to that point , i would have given it a pretty high rating . however , it's at this point where the movie becomes sick , to the point where i wanted to throw up . this particular chapter is not funny at all , just disgustingly gross . if you have a weak stomach , you probably won't enjoy chapter 17 , and it may ruin the rest of the movie for you . which is a shame , because , other than that one chapter , it's actually a very clever and funny movie . i would have given it an , but because of needless grossness , i can't give it higher than
better than i expected	( this comment refers to the unrated version ) i got this movie really cheap , so i wasn't too worried about how good it was . actually i expected it it be awful , and it really wasn't . there are actually some amusing moments here . the movie is based on the TV show of the same name . i haven't seen the show , but i don't think that matters too much . it sort of reminded me of the Police Academy movies ( although these cops aren't in training , they're just inept ) and Super Troopers . i pretty much hated Super troopers and found the Police Academy movies not that funny . i think Reno 991 Miami is better than both . but if you did like Super Troopers or Police Academy , you should like this movie . it isn't for everyone , though . it's rude crude , lewd , obnoxious , offensive and sexist , and just about anything you can think of . if any of the above don't appeal to you , this is not your movie . even though it was better than i expected , i would give it no more than a
strictly cheap laughs and lame story	talk about disappointing . this sequel has none of the heart of the original . the first one was silly , but at least it had a semblance of story , and the laughs were honest . here , it's all about the cheap laughs . this movie is slow and boring , with a lame story . if it didn't go direct to video , it should have . Anthony Anderson is in this one , and he can usually be counted on for some good laughs , but he has nothing to work with here . this is case where they should just have stuck with the original , or at least put some more thought into the sequel . it feels rushed , but then it was , considering it came out merely a year later than the first one . Agent Cody Banks 2 : Destination London gets a from me .
middle of the road for this genre	this movie wasn't too too bad , i guess . the premise ? an ancient creature lives beneath the surface of a graveyard , feeding on the freshest bodies . . one man wants it for its remarkable healing properties . believing that humans can benefit from it . another man ( a former F . B . I . agent ) wants to kill it , ostensibly for revenge in the death of his partner . but there is clearly something else driving him . this premise , or a very similar one , was used a few years ago and to much greater effect . Anyway , that is all i will say as far as the plot goes . the movie itself doesn't have much in the way of substance , zero character development , and a " b " movie quality to it . the dialogue is at times pedantic or plain stupid , and delivered in robotic monotones by some of the actors . however this is not the worst of it . the creature itself is very poorly designed . it is evident in more than one scene that it is simply just someone in a big ape-like suit . the monster is not an ape , but this is close of a description as i can come up with . the ending was not consistent with the rest of the movie , and seemed tacked on when they reached the required running time . not the worst movie ever made by any means . just not overly great . Try " Relic " instead .
kids might like the action , though it is pretty tame	i wasn't too impressed with this animated spin off of the Toy Story films . i just expected better . the story was pretty weak , but at least there were a few amusing moments . i found it too preachy myself . i like the message it has , about friendship and teamwork , but i just thought it was a bit too unsubtle . kids might like it , considering there was a fair amount of action . there's nothing inappropriate that i saw , so it's probably suitable for most ages . in fact , the movie is pretty tame , with pretty much no violence . anyway , this isn't horrible by any means , it just isn't anything special . for me , Buzz Lightyear of Star Command : The Adventure Begins is a
" Crime has a new enemy and justice has a new face " . . . , ( )	OK , but does that make this a good movie ? well , not really , in my opinion . there isn't a whole lot to recommend it . i found it very slow , tediously , in fact . it's also predictable pretty much through and through . number one and two were somewhat predictable , but not as much . i also felt this movie was quite campy at times , which i didn't really think fits this series and the character . Jeff Fahey plays the main bad guy in this installment . he's a decent enough actor , but i felt he played his character too over the top . i guess that fit with the tone of the movie , which would have been great if i had liked the movie . plus , there were some pretty bad one liners . Arnold Vosloo returns in the title role , but is given little to work with in this movie . the character has not really evolved , as i had hoped . oh well . this is just my opinion . anyway , for me , while this movie is not abysmal , it is pretty bad . my vote for Darkman III :
i found it mostly non-believable , pointless and confusing	mostly i found this movie non-believable , pointless and confusing . i didn't find it really predictable , but most people probably will . the acting was OK , but not great . Zooey Deschanel was the only bright spot , in my opinion . Benjamin Bratt appeared in the movie and was adequate . Katie Holmes was supposed to be the star , i think . i found her sub par , as usual . i don't really like her that much , and have yet to see he in a good movie . or rather i have yet to see her put in a good performance in a movie . the ending was something most people will probably see coming a mile away . it's not something i predicted , but it wasn't surprising either . my vote for Abandon is a
updated Friday May 16 . 2008 ) a fairly low point in the series , but the producer's cut ( ) is a whole new movie	to me , this was the worst Halloween movie up to this point . i found the storyline contrived and lame . not to mention , i don't see how it fit in with the Michael Myers mythology up to that point . there's a lot of gaps between the previous film and this one , and none of them are filled in or explained in any satisfying , or even credible way . i get the distinct impression this movie was just made as a cash cow , with not much thought put into it . plus , i feel they overdid some of the death scenes . i don't mean the violence , but more the sounds of the bones breaking and such . the sounds were just way to vivid and crisp , which didn't really fit the series up to that point . it just wasn't necessary . i think it was done for cheap shock value . this movie did nothing to distinguish itself from other slashers . in fact , that is really all this movie was-a run of the mill slasher . for me , Halloween 6 : The Curse of Michael Myers ( the theatrical version ) is a at best . ( Updated Friday May 16 . 2008 ) however , i recently found a copy of the producer's cut , which is , i think the version that was supposed to be released . it was originally entitled The origin of Michael Myers , and it actually explains the origin of his evil . it fills in almost of the gaps missing from the theatrical version , and is actually a much more coherent and better movie . i think the copy i have is a bootleg version , which is all that exists so far , so you can clearly notice the transitions to the additional scenes . the picture quality of theses scenes are usually darker and grainier , and a few look washed out , but it was worth the price for me . just the fact that it put things into context makes up for the lower quality of these scenes . besides , the quality isn't so bad to make it unwatchable . until this version is released commercially , this one is more than acceptable . if you can find , i would recommend it . it's a whole new movie , possibly the 2nd best entry in the series . based on content alone , Halloween 6 : The Origin of Michael Myers is a strong
not the 1979 movie , but 3 episodes of the 1990 series	this is the 1990's TV show , not the movie from 1979 . it looks to be three episodes totaling just under 90 minutes . before watching , i thought it was one of the movie versions , and i noticed right away , it had a TV show Feel to it . i didn't care for it too much . i just felt the story wasn't there , and there wasn't much in the way of excitement or drama . i was looking at the time elapsed on my DVD player frequently , as i was really bored . i also thought some of the dialogue was , to put it politely , not good . plus , i thought the acting left a lot to be desired . but that's just me however , it is good clean , wholesome family entertainment . there's certainly nothing offensive here . kids will likely enjoy it . for me , The Black Stallion is
so much potential	this movie had the ingredients to be a very funny comedy . it has Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor , who play a deaf guy and a blind guy , respectfully . a man is shot and killed , and the death guy and the blind guy are the only witnesses . they can't prove anything , so they are arrested for the murder . and they escape custody . sounds like a good and original premise , right ? well it is , but i found that all the jokes fell flat . i was , quite frankly , bored . after about 36 minutes , i had to stop watching . it was just way too slow . maybe you have to be in a certain mood to enjoy this movie . or maybe it's just not my kind of movie . either way , i found it pretty lame . it has a chuckle or two , but not enough to maintain my interest . if you're a Pryor / Wilder fan , you might want to check it out . for me , See no Evil , Hear no Evil is a
boring and anti climatic	i was bored throughout this movie . it's slow moving and not much happens . it's not much different than your standard revenge tale . other than it might be more boring than many . Kevin Costner Anthony Quinn and Madeline Stowe star her , but none of them are given a lot to do with their characters . still , i liked Stowe the most . her character is the most interesting . the plot is pretty thin here , and well worn . a lot of the dialogue is clichd , and predictable , but maybe that's just me . if you're looking for an exciting , action packed movie , this is not it . i had higher expectations for this movie going in , and i was sorely disappointed . for me , Revenge is a
i thought it could have been so much better	man this movie has it all , and i don't mane that In good way . i didn't think the acting was very good in this one . i also thought a lot of the humour in it was mean spirited . and don't get me started on the story . i just found it beyond the bounds of reality even for this type of movie . maybe this movie is supposed to be absurd . if so , it succeeded . the thing about the original is it had some heart and soul to it . i didn't see any of that in this one . Peter Weller and Nancy Allen are back for this one , and they try hard , i think , but they don't have too much to work with . on paper , this movie may have looked like it would work , but i think it lost something in the translation . where the first one managed to look like it had a budget of some sort , this one , looks low budget , and not in a good way . i'm sure it's hard to tell , when you're making a movie if it will work or not so i'll give the filmmakers the benefit of the doubt . by that , i mean they probably thought they were making a good movie . some people might like it , but i just found it tedious . having said that , this movie is nowhere near the worst movie i have ever seen . it could have been so much better true , but it could have been worse . so , i'll give " RoboCop 2 "
this movie barely has a . . . Pulse ( 1988 )	OK , quick synopsis . electricity in people's houses starts going haywire . it starts whispering to people , driving them insane . it then takes over their houses , turning them into death traps and murdering them . notice i said murder , not kill . this is because the deaths are deliberate , not accidental . r-i-i-i-ght . obviously the whole idea is ludicrous . now , the implausibility of the basic premise could be somewhat forgiven if there were any reason or explanation given for what is happening , but alas , there isn't . no attempt is even made to explain the events . they just happen and that is a large problem . even a lame attempt would be better than none . and don't get me started on the ending . oh what the heck . the ending - makes no sense at all . the movie basically just ends . no loose ends are tied up . but there were some positives . the acting was decent , given that the actors had so little to work with . and there were some tense moments . not the worst movie ever made just not a good one . all in all , an empty unsatisfying experience . a low
generic crime thriller with out the thrills	to me , this is just a standard suspense thriller / crime drama . although , in reality , it isn't really thrilling or suspenseful . in fact , it could be a TV episode from a crime show . except for the bit of nudity . you have your usual cast of characters , criminals looking for something , murders , witnesses , plot twists that aren't . i like Marlee Matlin and D . B . Sweeney , but i didn't sense any chemistry between them . the story itself is , like i said , fairly generic , and uninvolving , with a few things that don't add up . in other words , logic gaps . to be fair there are a few tense moments , adding up to maybe five minutes or so of the total running time . otherwise , it's slow and yawn inducing . for me , Hear no Evil is a
funnier than both 1 and 2 , but don't expect to be scared at all	this installment of the " Leprachaun " franchise is better than the last two . it's still not great , in fact , it's not quite good either . but it does have a much better pace to it . there are a few more funny moments and one almost hysterical sequence . the body count is higher in this one , and Warwick Davis , once again as the Leprachaun , really gets to cut loose at times . there's definitely a higher energy level this time around . the movie is still not scary at all . and once again , the story is not connected to the previous entries , other than having the same psycho Leprechaun trying to get back his gold . this time , the setting is Las Vegas . for me , so this third " Leprechaun " is the best of the series so far .
he'll cut more than your hair ( next ? )	this is a hard movie to watch . mainly because it is so slow . if you are expecting action , you won't find it here . what you will find is a character study of sorts . the characters propel movie more than anything else . it's a murder mystery / drama that takes place in Alaska in the dead of winter , when it is cold and dark for 24 hours a day . Malcolm McDowell plays the barber , but he is more than a barber . he puts in a good performance here , and the supporting actors are also good . aside from that , there isn't a lot worth watching the movie for . instead of having an ending of any sort , it just ends . i was just hoping that if nothing else , some loose ends would be tied up . i might have rated the movie bit higher in that case . as it is , i give The Barber a . as an aside , this movie is similar in spirit to Fargo ( though i thought Fargo was a better movie ) , so if you liked that movie , you might want to check out this movie , or vice versa .
mostly bland and uninteresting in my opinion	i didn't like this movie . i found it moved at a glacial pace . i also didn't think the acting was all that great . i only liked 2 characters In the whole movie , which is sad , because there are a lot of characters . i liked the character of Philby , played by Clarence Williams III . i also liked Williams himself . i thought he was on of the 2 best actors in the movie . the other character i like was Cassie , played by Nina Siemaszko . I thought Siemaszko also was very good in her role . these 2 characters ( Philby and Cassie ) i found to be interesting . the rest of the characters were either boring or annoying . Kellie Martin plays the lead character , and to me , she was bland . to be honest , most of the movie was uninteresting , in my opinion . it just seems like nothing really happens . i was really just waiting for this movie to be over . this is not the worst movie i have seen ( " Dracula 3000 " holds that distinction so far ) but it was nothing special either . " Mystery Woman : Mystery Weekend " gets from me .
pretty good visual style , but not too much else , in my mind	this movie falls into the same category as Blade Runner in my opinion . i mean it looks good visually , but there isn't much substance . i think so much more could have been done with not only the movie in general but also with the characters . speaking of characters , Jude Law's character struck me as just being nonsensical . i also thought movie was way too long , clocking in at nearly 2 and a half hours . think they could have streamlined the script and made it more economical . but that's just me . plus , i was pretty depressed after watching this movie . other than it's visual style , i don't see a lot of merit here . anyway for me , " Artificial Intelligence : AI " gets a
for me , it was too slow	this is just my own personal opinion , but i found this movie very slow . there's a lot of drama , but not much action . Gregory peck plays the sheriff of a very sleepy town , where almost nothing happens . then he does something which goes against his morals . he ends up paying for it in the end . Tuesday Weld also stars in the movie . i watched this movie right to the end , though i found it hard to keep going . John Frankenheimer directed the movie , and if you like his style of movie making , you might like this movie . for me , though , i didn't like it that much . i've seen much worse movies , but i didn't feel invested in this movie or the characters . anyway , if you don't mind drama , and aren't concerned about a lot of action , you might like this movie .
too muddled for my tastes	i didn't like this movie . to me , it didn't make much sense . it was hard to figure out what was really happening . i also didn't think it was scary . i did however , think it was silly , even absurd , but not in a good way . Radha Mitchell is the main character in the movie , which cam out in 2003 . She was also , coincidently in 2006's " Silent Hill " which i hated . it too i found confusing and pointless . " Visitors " isn't as bad , but i think it is certainly below average . there is just nothing special about it . the script is just too muddled and there are things in the movie which don't need to be there , in my opinion . I think Radha Mitchell is probably a good actress , if she has more to work with . my vote for " Visitors " is
style over substance , and not much originality	this movie is not that great . i found the story too banal ( ordinary ) . there's not much originality here . it's a combination of many other movies . it's equal parts a Christmas Carol , It's a Wonderful Life , How the Grinch Stole Christmas , and Even The Cat in the Hat movie . the movie isn't very funny , but there is a bit of slapstick that works . this movie is , i felt , overly sentimental and preachy . in fact , i felt like i was watching a 90 minute commercial on how important family is . now , don't get me wrong . family is very important . i just find that subtlety works best with these movies . this was just way too heavy handed for me . but there is some good news . the movie has a great visual style . i mean , it looks fantastically magical . and Martin Short is terrific as Jack Frost , the baddie of the piece . he's not really scary , more mildly disconcerting than anything , and even a bit sad . i also like the look they gave him . this movie is also a bit of a tearjerker . anyway , this is a case of style over substance . and while it's not nearly as mean spirited or creepy as part 2 , i still don't think it was as good . the negatives just outweigh the positives . for me , The Santa Clause 3 is a
annoying lead character ruins the show	for me , this is by far , the weakest entry in the CSI cannon . it's not that the stories are uninteresting . many of them are . most of the characters are done well enough , except for two notable exceptions . the first exception , and this is just my opinion , is the character of Dr . Alexx Woods , the medical examiner , played by Khandi Alexander . i find the character much too weepy , at least in the earlier episodes i have watched that might be different now . i think Khandi Alexander is a good actress , given a weak character to portray . the character with biggest flaw , at leas in my opinion , is Lieutenant Horatio Caine , Played by David Caruso . Caine is the leader of the team . this character is just way too annoying for me . Caine is just a poser to me , with his supposedly thoughtful demeanor at the end of each episode where he looks out at the ocean with this hands on his hips and his cool looking sun glasses on . i also find his speech pattern annoying . this character sinks the whole show and makes it all but unwatchable . this may not bother everybody , but it sure does bother me . in fact , i dislike the character enough that i have not bought any CSI : Miami on DVD , and probably won't . again , this is the character , not the actor . and the character may be different now . i don't have anything against Caruso . this is just my view . for me , CSI : Miami is a
part 9 ( )	this ninth movie is in the Friday the 13th series , pretty much ignores the previous ones . sure , it's still Jason , and he still psychopath with a hockey mask . but otherwise there isn't a lot of similarity . for one thing , in this one they offer an explanation for his unstoppable evil . it's an interesting explanation , but it adds things to the lore that were not in the previous movies , except fro a very brief hint in the 6th or 7th one , i can't recall which . anyway , this movie starts off very promising , but loses traction and end up becoming boring save for a few exciting moments . i viewed the unrated version and it's pretty graphic in its violence . i thought this was slightly better than the previous effort , Jason Takes Manhattan , but only slightly . for me , Jason goes to Hell is a
disappointing origin story of The Justice League	i may be in the minority her , but i found this animated movie disappointing . it's basically about the origin of The Justice League but i didn't feel it was worthy of an origin story . i also thought it was slow , an i didn't like the story . there isn't a lot of action in this one , and there's no real threat to the world . there is a threat of sorts , but i think it was lame . there isn't much in the way of character development either . i do think the voice talent was right on in this one , though . i felt the characters and their voices really suited each other . i have no idea if this origin story reflects the actual origin from the comic book , since i haven't read the comic . i just know that the movie was lacklustre . for me . Justice League league : The New Frontier is a
should be rated at least PG-13	the rating on this movie is on this site . but it's not as good as i had expected or hoped . that rating is about 2 stars too high for me . for one thing , i found it too insubstantial , with a pretty weak story . the potential was there , but it just wasn't realized . there also existed the possibility of some humour in the movie , but that doesn't really develop either . it's also slow , with only intermittent scenes of action . there's almost no character development . as a matter of a fact , there were a few characters that had almost nothing to do . this movie runs about 104 minutes without end credits , but i had to stop it , to break up the monotony . the American and Canadian rating on this movie is PG , but i think it should be at least PG-13 . i think it's a bit too intense for any under 13 , but that's just me . nevertheless , parents should use their discretion . my vote for The Rocketeer is a
disappointing murder mystery / courtroom drama , that should have been thrilling or compelling but isn't	In " Presumed Innocent " , Harrison Ford plays deputy prosecutor Rusty Sabich , who has been assigned to investigate the murder of a colleague . the hitch is , he had been sleeping with . he digs a bit deeper into the case than someone wants him to and finds himself charged with her murder . i had had the chance to watch this movie several times over the years and never got around to it . finally , i sat down to watch it . i was not impressed . the movie plods along much too slowly . it is not riveting or even compelling but i suck with it . i will give points for the ending though . it is something i did not expect and would have been pretty decent except they dragged it out long . Harrison Ford was convincing in a dramatic role . Bonnie Bedelia was good as the wife , and Raul Julia was very good as Sabich's defence attorney . as for the movie on a whole , it was disappointing . i wish i could give this movie a better rating , but the best i can do is
average animated movie , below average animated comedy	i'm a bit surprised at the fairly high rating this movie has ( just over ) the film was hyped so much and heaped with praise . even a good friend of mine told me it was hilarious . imagine my surprise in finding out it is not hilarious at all , barely even comical . there are a couple of " light chuckle " moments , but that's it . i know it is an animated movie and maybe i'm being too sensitive here ( or , maybe i'm just out to lunch ) , but i actually think the movie is mean spirited in some parts . as an animated movie goes it is about average , certainly nothing more . as an animated comedy , it is lower than average . so , i'll give " Over the Hedge "
passably entertaining , if you can get past the first 30 min	At first , i didn't like this movie . i just didn't see the point . i mean there was next to no plot . lots of nudity , ( always a good thing ) drunk people doing really silly things . and of course a psycho killer stalking the staff of the island resort where the movie is set . there are lots of crude and raunchy situations , which is not always a bad thing . the movie is basically a parody of your typical slasher flick . the style of the movie ( if you can call it that ) reminded me of the very early Friday the 13th movies and also April fool's Day , though obviously a very different ending . as a parody , the movie does work . i did not find it funny or even humorous in the slightest , although i did find the absurdity of it somewhat amusing . there is not much in the way of acting ability involved or necessary here . however , i do have to single someone out here . that would be Brittany Daniel , who plays Jenny , one of the island staff . This girl definitely has some acting chops and depth . the camera loves her . I know this type of movie is not normally a barometer of acting ability . this case is different , however . the film is worth watching just for Brittany's performance . All she needs is a good script , and she could be a great character actress , similar to Anna Faris . I hope we see in a serious role sometime . anyway , back to the movie . at some point , i did become engrossed in the film , and was curious as to who the killer was . and believe me , there were a lot of suspects . this movie was sort of like a train wreck . i just couldn't stop watching . slightly entertaining , at times , but just barely . there were only 2 reasons to watch this movie . Brittany Daniel , and to find out who the killer was . BTW , for a movie that is just as raunchy and crude , and also hysterically funny , check out Repli-Kate . as for Club Dread - out of 10
should have remained buried	i can't think of too much to like about this alleged horror movie . to me , it lacked any real scares . there is a bit of suspense though not very much . the setting has promise : Catacombs beneath the streets of Paris . that's certainly an eerie place to base a horror film . but , for whatever reason , it just didn't work for me . and i gotta say , this thing is predictable almost from the get go , right to the end . it is loud though , with a pumping rock soundtrack throughout the first half . plus , there are a few things that don't make a lot of sense . normally that shouldn't matter in a horror movie . but when it doesn't do its job , you start to nitpick and look for faults . sometimes it's the only way too keep from being completely bored . for me , The Catacombs is a
forgettable sequel , although it is louder	the first Scanners may not have been a great movie , but at least it was original . there is no such novelty to this one . the acting is worse , in my opinion , and the story is slower and nothing special . i also didn't like the dialogue . and the special effects are no better than in the original . this is movie is inferior to the first one in all ways . the only thing different about it , is that it is loud and chaotic at times . but that doesn't make a good movie . if they had done something better with the story and made it interesting , this could have been a decent movie . i actually couldn't get through it all without fast forwarding through it . to me , this is a forgettable movie , and not much more . despite all that , there are worse movies . being in a generous mood , i'll give Scanners 2 a .
same old , same old	i'll start with the positives . i really like the characters that Bruce Campbell and Ernie Hudson played . they were both very likable . Bruce Campbell did a very good job in his role as a storm chaser . not once did i think of him in his Evil Dead persona . Ernie Hudson was also credible in his role as a scientist who had been trying for years to perfect an early warning system he had developed . other than that , there is not a lot to recommend this movie . we see very few tornadoes in the movie . it is more of a drama than anything else . it was boring at times , to say the least . of far as these types of movies go , this one is very low key and sedate at times . there is also nothing original in it . you basically have the same bunch of characters , just with different names . it passes the time , but that's about it .
too rushed , unlikable main character	this movie just didn't do it for me . it's supposed to be thrilling and suspenseful , but i found it to be neither . i can't put my finger on it why it didn't work for me , it just didn't . as you can probably tell from the title , the focus of the movie is a phone booth , and that's where most of the movie takes place . not only did i not like the movie very much , it was also way too short ( 81 minutes ) . the fact that most of the movie takes place in a phone booth isn't the problem . like i said , there's nothing tangible i can point to . this is one movie that is a mystery to me . i don't think there's anything wrong with the direction by Joel Schumacher , either . Larry Cohen wrote the script , and that's not the problem . maybe the problem is that the main character isn't very likable and the movie feels too rushed . either way , i'll give Phone Booth a
i wasn't too impressed with this	i wasn't too impressed with this movie . it is in the style of both the Conan movies , but i didn't like it anywhere near as much . there was lots of action , but i still found it to be slow and boring . it becomes a bit more interesting from the halfway point on , but barely . i didn't find the acting very good , although Kevin Sorbo was good as the title character . but it was Tia Carrere who i thought was very impressive as the evil Queen . however , the only real reason i stuck it out was i noticed that the beginning credits listed Harvey Fierstein in the movie . he doesn't show up until about halfway through , but i liked him in his role . otherwise , the movie is tedious and very hard to get through . for me , Kull the Conqueror is a .
not your Father's tooth fairy	this movie is similar to Darkness Falls , and The Boogeyman ( 2005 ) but it's also much more graphic than both , and not as good as either . it's also slow and fairly predictable . it's also got shades of Deliverance and the Amityville Horror . plus , we get some new age flavour thrown in the mix and some of those scenes come off as a motivational / inspirational sermon . really , this movie is a hodgepodge of almost everything . even though it is gory , the makeup effects are not very realistic looking . in fact they look kinda cheap . aside from all that , there is some really awful clichd dialogue . and i won't say when , but there is a point where a couple of the character's actions were not authentic or believable , given the circumstances . nobody in their right mind what would have acted this way . once you watch the movie , you'll know what i mean . there's also some gratuitous nudity for nudity's sake . it just wasn't necessary at all . the good news is that the acting was actually pretty good . better than this movie deserves . so , after carefully weighing the evidence , id say this movie was passable , but not good . my verdict for The Tooth fairy :
not so good	i was none to impressed with this effort in the disaster genre . i found it too way too long to get going , and was boring . i also didn't think the earthquake sequence was that spectacular . it just wasn't that exciting , nor did it look very realistic , even by the standards of that era ( 1974 . ) i have seen other movies of the genre made around that time period , which are much more realistic . the dialogue left a lot to be desired in my opinion . i felt a lot of it was cringe-worthy . the acting was also bad , but at least it was consistent with the rest of the film . i've seen quite a few disaster movies , and while this one is not the worst , it definitely ranks closer to the bottom of the list for me . i give Earthquake a
certainly a step ( or three ) above part I	i hated the original Hostel with a passion . so i was surprised that i didn't hate part 2 . the story is pretty much the same , with mostly different characters , so of course it's predictable . i didn't find it as sick a the first one . as a matter of fact there are only one or two gory scenes . the first 50 minutes or so are all about the setup just like the first one . , so it's kinda boring . there are a few ludicrous moments , including the ending , which ( even though it's ridiculous ) most people will see coming a mile away . and i do love the irony of it . this movie is certainly a step ( or three ) above Hostel I . it's watchable , unlike the first . nevertheless , i would not call this great film making , by any stretch . for me , Hostel II is a
Jane Russel's first movie	this thing is all over the place . it's disjointed , and there doesn't seem to be a point to a lot of it . probably most largely remembered as Jane Russel's first movie role , even though she didn't have that big a part . anyway , this thing just goes on and on and on . there were times i was sure it was over , and it could have been , but it kept going . it also plays fast and loose with history , as far as i know . Doc Holiday , Pat Garret and Billy the Kid are all in this one . i don't just mean they're in the same movie . they're actually together in most scenes of the movie . for me , when you add everything all up , this is a bizarre mess . i give The Outlaw a
underwhelming	talk about high hopes being dashed . seeing the trailers for this film starring Don Cheadle , i was convinced it would be a great movie . sadly , i found it boring , predictable , muddled , pointless . I like Don Cheadle a lot . but i think he made a bad decision to star in this movie . Guy Pierce , Neil McDonough , and Jeff Daniels co star . a case of a great cast being wasted , except for guy Pierce , who i was impressed with . otherwise , this movie is just filled with despair and no hope . it's got a fairly high rating of , which i would say is way , way too generous . maybe i just wasn't in the right mood or frame of mind for this movie . anyway , for me , Traitor is a
i wasn't too impressed with this	i found this movie to be mostly a P . O . S . it was low budget , but that isn't the problem . the problem is , the movie is just lame . it doesn't really make a lot of sense . yes , it does explain why things happened , but that's not what i mean . there was just no reason for it all . the movie also moved very slow . the last ice age was quicker than this . also , i think they went overboard a bit in the kills . i don't mean they were too gross , but the killer just seemed to spend too much time smashing his victim over the head , or stabbing his victim . maybe i'm being petty , but i just didn't like the movie . the whole thing seemed like a lower rate version of " When a Stranger Calls " and maybe that was the whole point . but so what . for me " When A Stranger Kills " is a
not one of Chuck's best	in fact , it's your typical action / crime drama . the characters are stereotypical for this genre . i also found the movie slow and depressing . i was quite disappointed . i was expecting a much better movie than this . the action is slow , and there really isn't much originality here . Andrew Davis directed this one . he also directed The Fugitive , Under Siege and Above the Law , all after Code of Silence . but it's not all bad . for one thing Henry Silva is great as one of the main bad guys , although he doesn't get a lot of screen time . because of it's depressing atmosphere though and how slow it is i give Code of Silence a
didn't live up to the potential	i don't think this was a good film . first off , i just found it so tediously slow . it never really picked up much at all . when it gets to the " reveal " of some undersea life , it redeems itself somewhat , but not much . though i will say the special effects were pretty impressive in this regard . the problem is , we are not shown as many creatures as i would have liked . and for me , the whole movie hinges on that aspect . beyond that , there isn't a lot i liked about the movie . the acting was adequate , but nothing more . the movie is also way too long , in my opinion . i unfortunately watched the extended version , which clocks in at about 170 minutes , while the original theatrical cut was only 140 minutes . anyway , when you put it all together , the most i can give The Abyss is a .
not as good as number 1 , ( or 2 and 3 , for that matter )	this sequel is nowhere near as good as the original . there is lots of blood in this one , courtesy of the fight scenes . , which is a good thing . the fight scenes themselves aren't too bad . however , if found the plot to be lame and uninteresting . this martial arts movie did not really engage my interest very much . this movie lacks the depth ( i , i said depth and martial arts movie in the same sentence ) of the first film and even the following two sequels . the worst part of the experience is the song selections and choice of band . who picks this crap . these guy don't even rate as flea bag bar band . and the songs are pathetic . the only good things in this movie are Sasha Mitchell , who makes a credible hero and Dennis Chan , who plays the wise oriental sidekick . i suppose i could eke out a for this movie , since it is watchable , but the music just sucks so damn bad , i have to give " Kickboxer 2 "
random and incoherent	this is the second movie in the Matrix saga . it chronicles the continuing fight of the resistance to free humanity from continuing enslavement from the machines which keep reality hidden from them . this is not what i would call good movie . it is a collection of repetitive and ridiculous unrealistic fight scenes , coupled with an incoherent storyline . plus there a lot of " profound ' sayings which aren't really profound at all . then you have characters speaking in riddles which are gibberish half the time . at time , i felt i was being preached a philosophy lesson . the rating for this movie is pretty high on this site ( ) which astounds me . in my opinion , that is at least three stars too many . My vote for The Matrix Reloaded is a
not too good ( especially if you expect to laugh )	this movie is billed as a spoof / comedy , but it's not really funny . there are 1 or 2 mildly amusing moments , but mostly it's just silly , without being funny . this movie would work as an actual spy movie , except that you have the expectation that you will laugh . it's gonna be hard to get the required 10 lines of text in here , but i'll try . i think the problem is the filmmakers tried too hard to get laughs . sometimes you can go too far with a joke and it ends up as flat as a pancake . so the movie isn't really funny , but it does have 1 redeeming feature . that is the casting of Andy Griffith ( TV's Matlock and the Andy Griffith show ) as a maniacal nut case who plans to either destroy the world or rule it . Griffith is great in this movie . he has so much fun in the role . Barry Bostwick is also good for some comic relief . but overall , the movie is not good . the most i can squeeze out for " Spy Hard " is a
interesting concept , but the movie is not interesting	this movie kinda reminded me of the classic short story The Monkey's Paw , only it isn't as good . it's too long for one thing , and too slow . the concept is interesting , but to me the execution of it goes wrong somewhere . i did find it interesting that Oliver Stone wrote the screenplay and directed the movie . there is nothing political about the movie . this doesn't mean the movie is good of course , but it is an interesting aside , nonetheless . Michael Caine is the lead , and and does an OK job , but the material is not really compelling or even mildly interesting . i watched it for awhile and got bored , so i started talking on the phone with a friend while i continued watching halfheartedly . having said all that , i don't think it is an awful movie , it's just not very interesting . by the way , this movie is part of the Twisted terror Collection , and is also contained in the box set ( along with five other titles ) of the same name . anyway , my vote for the hand is a
underwhelming	i may be in the minority here , but i just didn't find the Ring to be a good movie . for me , it's not much different the the Grudge . i will say , i liked it a bit more than The Grudge , only because it isn't so annoying . there are a few differences between the two movies , but in my mind , it's almost the same movie . i do remember being bored and struggling to not nod off . i just didn't see any excitement anywhere in the movie , but that's just me . Naomi Watts is in it , and she's not bad , considering what she has to work with . but once again , the ghost is not scary , although it does look a bit creepy , i guess , vaguely . i didn't feel any suspense either . but if you liked The Grudge , then you might like The Ring . or you might want to check out The Messengers ( which i liked ) and Pulse , ( 2006 ) ( which i liked ) which are sort of similar but better in my opinion . as for The Ring , i give it
not really suited to my tastes	this movie isn't for me , but i could see how people would like it . it has two very likable leads in Nia Vardalos and Toni Collette . both are great actresses and work well off each other very well here . they both have great comedic timing . and their are some great witty moments here . but for me , there's just too many musicals , and i'm not really a musical fan . plus , i kinda found the film quite slow . i'm not really into the drag queen scene in movies either . i knew what the movie was about before watching it but i still thought id ' give it a shot . if you're a musical fan and you have a bit of patience , this movie might work for , and you might really enjoy it . my vote for Connie and Carla is a
most ( ly ) dull	this movie was pretty much one big bore . it's about a political / military cover up . many other movies have dealt with the same subject , and much better . Keenan Ivory is OK in the lead role , but i didn't Buy John Voigt as a corrupt general . Paul Sorvino , Eric Roberts and Jill Hennessey are all good , but they all have too little screen time . there isn't much in the way of tension here , and given the situation there should be . there is one ridiculous multi vehicle accident that has no logic . at least i don't think it did . if you really wanna see this movie , your best bet would be on premium cable or a cheap rental . but that's just me . for me , Most Wanted is
clever premise , but doesn't live up to its potential	the premise for this movie is clever and original . Two men who do not look alike and are totally different human beings find out they are twins . one is a perfect physical specimen , very well educated and honest . and he grew up on a deserted island . the other one-well lets just say he's almost the exact opposite . Arnold Schwarzeneggar and Danny Devito are the twins . so the movie should be hilarious . but it's not . at least i didn't think so . there are a few amusing lines , but that's about it . the whole " fish out of water " scenario should be funny , but again , it isn't . there is another plot which is basically a crime drama and that's what this this movie feels like to me , a crime drama . i got bored about halfway through and had to turn it off for awhile before going back to it . for me , Twins is a
not quite awful , just slow and not very interesting	i don't think this movie is as awful as everyone says . i think it's mildly amusing . bu ti don't think it's very interesting , and it is slow . ti don't think the acting is the problem . i think it's the script . i think it's a movie with an identity crises . i'm just not sure what kind of movie it wants to be . i don't think the dialogue is very good either . having said that , i will say i think the acting is not that great . it's average at best . no one really seemed interested to be there . but they don't really have a lot to work with . Madonna is in this movie and i don't think her acting is any better or worse than anyone else in the movie . for me , Swept away rates a
could have been very good , but bad writing gets in the way	Wicker Park is a movie that starts out promising , but ends up becoming a convoluted mess . the actors all do fine jobs with what they are given , but the writing sinks the film . the movie has some degree of realism and logic in the earlier stages but then quickly bogs down in one implausible scenario after another . the movie is a suspense thriller and it does deliver on that count , but who cares , if you can't follow the movie . if you are left scratching your head at the absurdity of it all , the movie loses its initial appeal . wicker park won't be the worst movie you've ever seen , by a long shot . but it will end up hurting your brain trying to decipher , who's doing what to who , and why . this movie had so much promise , and with a better script , who knows how much better it could have been . instead of being above average , the movie is choked by mediocre writing and ultimately fails .
. . . . and while we're at it , let's bore everyone else to death	the thing about this movie is for the better part of it , next to nothing happens . this is one sublime movie . i wouldn't say it's a bad movie , but if you are looking for action , you will have to look elsewhere . to be fair , most movies of the 70's are much slower , or seem to be , compared to today's films . there is a plot in the movie , but it takes a long while to unfold . even so , it's not hard to see where the movie is headed long before it gets there . there is an eerie atmosphere about the movie , i'll give it that much . and there is one scene which definitely amps up the creepiness factor . it is similar to " Rosemary's Baby " in its glacial pace , but it is a better movie . the ending does wrap things up , if you pay attention , but you do kind of have to think about it to make the connection with the rest of the movie . if you like old fashioned ghost stories that take awhile to unfold , you'll like this movie . for myself , i found it much too slow . Let's Scare Jessica to Death is a
too long of a buildup to nothing	i guess this movie is a bit eerie at times . it's basically about people who practice an obscure religion , with bizarre beliefs . but i've seen at least one movie quite similar to it , possibly more . so not only is there not much originality , but nothing new is done with the material . plus i pretty much figured things out from the get go . the whole movie is basically one slow build . but to what , i'm not sure . i mean there is a bit of excitement in the last 25 minutes or so . but the ending is very predictable . generally i found this movie too boring to watch right through . i had to stop it several times , and then try to continue . actually i completely stopped it at one point , until this morning , when i finally finished it . some people will like this movie , and some will not . i fall into the category of not , for the most part . the acting was good though , so that's always a bonus . even so , i give The Believers a
much too slow , but could be a lot worse	while i didn't hate this movie , i didn't find it spectacular either . the first twenty minutes or so are quite good , with some action and tension . the last ten minutes are also good , again with some action and suspense . the problem is the middle of the movie . it's just too damn slow moving . i kept hoping and waiting for something to happen . there's a lot of talking in this one . however , i really liked Graham Greene as a bitter former cop . Madchen Amick is convincing in the role of action heroine by the way , is it just me , or could she pass for Kim Delaney's twin sister ? anyway , the star of this movie is Adrian Pasdar , who plays the bad guy , and really well , i might add . his character is definitely very chilling and sadistic . unfortunately , the the movie itself falls short . my vote for " Wounded " is
check out the mini-series The Grid , for a better treatment of the subject of terrorism	i was disappointed din this terrorism suspense thriller , mainly because i didn't feel there was much in in the way of suspense or thrills . it just sort of plods along for about 160 minutes or so . i didn't care for the characters , except one , the character played by Blair Underwood . i found his character interesting . unfortunately , he doesn't have a lot of screen time . and for me , most of the actors didn't fit their roles . at least i didn't buy it . if you're looking for a movie dealing with terrorism that is exciting , riveting and tense , you should check out the mini series , The Gris , which i thought was outstanding . it had me on the edge of my seat the whole time . my vote for Covert One : The Hades Factor is a at best .
OK for the genre	this movie is OK for the horror genre . it's nothing new or special , but the genre has produced worse . i didn't find the acting all that bad . again , it wasn't great , but i've seen worse . Paris Hilton is in this one , and is no better or worse than anyone else in the movie . i didn't find the movie particularly scary or thrilling . but then a lot of so called horror movies aren't scary , merely disgusting . but i did think it was passable entertainment for 85 minutes or so . if you go in expecting award winning acting , and anything but a time waster , you'll be disappointed . if you've never seen one of these types of movies , you might find it scary . otherwise , just enjoy watching characters doing the stupid things they do in these movies before getting dispatched . for me , Nine Lives is a
i found it pretty boring and slow , for the most part	i won't say this is a horrible film , because it isn't . i just found it boring for the most part . there are a few tense moments , and there is a bit of action . this movie is more of a drama than anything , in my mind . it's a Jack Ryan movie , with Harrison Ford playing Ryan . it's based on the novel by Tom Clancy . the acting is good , and the characters are okay , just don't expect too much character development in this one . anyway , for whatever reason , i just didn't find this movie very compelling . i don't think it translated too well from the page to the screen . it will be quite awhile before i watch it again . i have seen a lot worse , but i've also seen a lot better . my vote for " Patriot Games " :
a inferior sequel that is much too slick for its own good	Pet Semetary 2 is not as creepy as Pet Semetery . it is however , gorier and faster paced . there is also more character development in this one , so theoretically you should feel more emotionally for the characters , but i didn't . perhaps that may be because they are all shallow and unlikable . this movie was played more for camp value , than anything else . the acting is very hammy in some scenes , i hope intentionally . there is also an attempt at shock value , but it is more disgust i felt than shock in some scenes . this movie also has none of the atmosphere or mystique of the first . it is much too slick feeling . i felt the first had a sort of rough , raw quality , which works . the slickness of this movie is one of its failings , along with some others i mentioned . bottom line . this movie is inferior to the original .
underwhelming	after watching this movie , i have one overriding feeling . that of being underwhelmed . there was lot of hype for this movie , but it just didn't live up to it for me . it should have been better . i mean , it had good actors and a decent story . and the dialogue was OK . but . for whatever reason , it just didn't resonate with me . i guess the biggest reason is that i found it slow and boring . i found the end way too protracted fro my tastes . i also believe they could have shaved 30 minutes off of it . i also think Tom Hanks's character was too low key In this movie . for another ' quest ' movie , i would recommend National Treasure . it's not as deep , but i felt it was much more fun and action packed . but that's just my opinion . for me , The Da Vinci Code is a .
disappointing to me	i'm afraid i have to disagree with the high rating this film has ( ) i found it tortuously slow and i couldn't finish watching , though i tried hard . so many people rave about this film , and i'm at a loss to explain . yes , it is very stylish . it has a very atmospheric dark mood to it . it's also pretty creative , i guess , or it was for that time . but the problem i have with the movie is the action is much too sublime for my tates . i need a bit more happening in the movie i watch . or at least more compelling dialogue . i didn't think the screenplay was all that great either . so when you you add all this up , you're left with one big yawn fest . this is just my opinion , of course , and i wouldn't say it's a bad movie . i do think it's overrated though . . Ridley Scott is apparently going to release a definitive version of the film i the not too distant future , so that may be a better version . as for this film as it stands , i can only give " Blade Runner " a , mainly due to its style .
an eerie ghost story that is very slow at times ( only those with patience should watch ) but with an ending that some may find unpredictable	" Red Rover " also called " The Haunting Within " , is an eerie ghost story . it is beautifully photographed with a haunting Celtic soundtrack . the acting is certainly good , and the the movie is very stylish . However it is almost painfully slow at times and sometimes plot is real hard to make sense of . there are a few creepy moments and i was reminded more than once of the movie " Hide and Seek " with Robert Deniro and Dakota Fanning problem is , there are fewer of these eerie creepy scenes than there should be so you will need lots of patience to get through this one . Another reviewer does mention the Changeling , the 1980 horror film , starring George C . Scott and Red Rover definitely does echo that movie heavily . both movies are also very slow at times . so this movie is not entirely original and is almost anti climatic . however the ending was a twist which i did not see coming ( though many people likely would have ) , so that was pleasant surprise . if you don't mind a slow buildup towards an ending that is very subdued ( as is the whole movie ) you might like this one . for me , i don't think i could sit through it again . the music and the picturesque beauty of the film do elevate it a bit , so i would give it
western / comedy with Don Knotts , Tim Conway and Bill Bixby	this western / comedy starring Don Knotts , Tim Conway , and Bill Bixby is a movie the whole family can watch . there's nothing offensive that i noticed . the thing is , though , the movie is not all that great . sure , it does have a few comedic moments ( courtesy of Knotts and Conway ) , which provide some lite chuckles . but nothing great . the story is decent enough , though pretty unoriginal , and predictable . and most of the movie is slow , and maybe a bit too long . but if you go in to it with low expectations , you might actually enjoy it . i found myself mildly amused and entertained . for a lazy Sunday , you could do worse . for me , The Apple Dumpling Gang is a
real court cases with actors portraying the actual people	billed s an early example of reality TV , this series presents 25 minute ( or so ) episode of ' real court cases ' but with actors portraying the real people . and of course most , if not all of the names have been changed to protect the individual . the character of the judge is always the same , played by the same actor . some of the episodes are humorous , some are bizarre . the acting isn't that great , and i have hard time believing that a real judge would behave as unprofessionally as this one does in some of the episodes . it's not a classic show , by any means still , the show is mildly amusing , and interesting for it's historical value . for me , Night Court U : S : A : is a
better than i expected or hoped	for a Van Damme movie , this isn't half bad . there's some pretty good action sequences , and the dramatic scenes aren't too shabby either . it's not a great film , by any stretch , but it is almost good . too bad the general premise is fairly weak and unoriginal , though i admit there were some details that were a bit different . i will admit that i actually cared about the characters , or some of them , anyway . maybe i'm becoming soft . there is a more human element to this film than many of Van Damme's efforts . i was really impressed by Van Damme's flawless French accent . oh . wait , that's his real accent . oh , well , at least his character and his accent fit together for once . also , the movie ended differently than i expected , in a good way . overall , not too bad an effort . better than " The Quest " , which is my least favourite Van Damme film so far . for me , " Legionnaire " is a
disappointing , to say the least	this is the first CG animated adventure of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . i had fairly high hopes for this movie . unfortunately , it didn't live up to them . i found the story lacking and uninteresting . plus , it just moves too slow . i didn't find the action scenes very good either . honestly , i just didn't thin the movie was worthy of the characters . it's CG animated , so it looks really nice . the voice actors were good . but the rest of the movie was lacking . i just was not engaged at all . maybe i just expected too much given the history of the characters . even though i didn't like the movie too much , i wouldn't call it horrible and there are a lot of worse movies out there , most of which i have seen . in my opinion , TMNT is a
' mockumentary ' on parking enforcers	here we have a ' mockumentary ' ( fake documentary ) on the people who enforce the parking laws . you know who i mean . you leave your car , and come back to it , only to find that nice little piece of paper on it . you know the 1 that says you have to pay a fine because you parked 30 seconds too long at the metre , or you parked half an inch to far from the curb . well the movie is about the people who put those nice pieces of paper on the windshield , i person in particular . this person's name is Grant , and Grant is of the opinion that his job is very important . it is a public service , and to hear him talk about it , akin to curing disease . they even have a ' guru'of parking enforcement named Murray which they revere very highly , like a god . they even spout philosophical drivel from the man himself . this movie should be funny , but it isn't . it is mildly amusing ( and i do mean mildly ) at best . there is nothing profound in this movie , that i can see . i wouldn't recommend renting it , but if you see it on TV , and you have nothing else to do , it will serve as a diversion for around 90 minutes . it is less than 90 minutes , and it does go by quickly , so that is a plus . others may find some this movie hysterical and even ' deep'but for me , it is average entertainment at best . ' my vote for ' The Delicate art of Parking ' ?
three of six in the series	this is the third of six movies in the Shadow series of movies , and the first of three starring Kane Richmond as Lamont Cranston / The Shadow . Cranston is played in this one as more of a flippant smart alec . he is the nemesis of the chief of police , who resents him butting in on his cases . this one has a darker tone than the firs two ( The shadow Strikes , and International Crime ) . the story is fleshed out a bit more here , and there is more action . minor spoilerThe Shadow is actually a suspect in this mystery . Shrevvy ( Tom Dugan ) Cranston's trusty cabbie and helper ) has a bigger role to play in this one , and it's funny to see him mangle some of his words . this movie does have its slow spots and does seem dragged out at times , but overall , it was enjoyable . my vote for The Shadow Returns is a 5 / / 10
it was a bit different than the first one , but i didn't find it any better or worse	after watching this sequel ( which has nothing to do with the first ) to the first Open Water , i'm not sure what to think . like the first movie , this one also has the ' based on true events ' . and again i think it is plausible that events happened the way the movie shows . either way , i liked some things about , the movie but some things i didn't like . i liked the fact that we get into the meat of the story quicker this time . also , although this one also involves people being left adrift out at sea , the circumstances which lead up to things are different . there are also more people involved . to me , the acting didn't really stand out , with one exception . that would be Susan May Pratt . i found her very believable as someone who was distraught over what had happened . anyway , this time , there are six friends involved . this makes for an interesting dynamic and some genuine tension . you also don't know who , if anyone will survive . those are the good things about it . as for what i didn't like , i thought the movie dragged a bit at times . it is about 15 minutes longer , which i felt was too long . i'm gonna give Open water 2 : Adrift the same rating as the first Open Water , which would be
less of the fantasy element than i'd hoped for ( and not a movie for young kids )	i was disappointed in this movie . it thought there would be more of a fantasy element to it , but that was just a very small part of the movie . most of the movie was nothing spectacular , with very little story or character development . i just felt they could have done more with the material . that's not to say that it's bad movie , because it isn't . the movie takes a dark turn towards the latter half , and becomes heartbreaking . i don't think it would be suitable for really young kids , because there are some pretty serious themes to it , and because it takes such a dark turn . there's nothing really offensive though , but parents should really use their discretion . for me , i give Bridge to Terabithia a
average low budget disaster movie	i just couldn't get all that excited about this movie . i mean , there are a few scenes of tidal waves , which look okay , i guess , but not spectacular . to me , , the parts of the movie involving the 2 main characters , seemed like an episode of moonlighting , more than anything else . and overall , the movie is the 2 characters trying to solve a mystery . there is an interesting angle in the movie , which i won't give away here . and as i mentioned earlier in a comment on'Killer Flood : the Day the Damn Broke ' , i had just watched 2 big budget disaster movies , ' 10 . 5'and its sequel ' 10 . 5 : Apocalypse , which are to me , the best disaster movies i have seen so far . i guess ' Tidal Wave . No Escape ' , is about average , so is my rating
not a horrible movie , but much too methodical for my tastes	this is a hard movie to review . i mean , it has a unique premise : that it is possible to erase selected memories from your mind , so you can forget any heartache and pain . that's sort of the gist , but things don't actually work out quite that way for the characters involved . aside from the unique premise , i found the movie hard to follow and much to slow and melancholy . it's also much too methodical for my tastes . it seems to dwell too long on certain scenes or situations . the movie is also very bizarre at times . this is no summer popcorn movie . it's definitely deep . too deep for me . i guess it's sort of a lesson that there's just some things you shouldn't mess with as there may be unexpected repercussions . i found the movie on the cusp of being compelling , just enough to keep watching to the end . the acting in the movie is good . Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet play the two lead characters . the supporting cast is also strong . this movie won't make you feel uplifted , so if you're feeling down , you might want to hold off on this movie . all things considered , the most i can give " eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is a
meek typesetter ( Don Knotts ) for small newspaper spends night in haunted house	this film is a bout a meek typesetter who works in the basement of a small newspaper in a small Kansas town . he aspires to be an ace reporter for the paper . as luck would have it , he given the chance . all he has to do is spend the night in a reputed haunted house and write an article for the paper describing all the ghostly occurrences which happen in the house , anything that might give credence to the house being haunted . this is the basic gist of the movie . Don Knotts plays Luther Heggs , the meek typesetter with big dreams . the movie was mad in 1966 and is perfect viewing for anyone who may be easily offended , there is nothing even remotely offensive here . this is safe family viewing , very sanitized . for many people it will be more than a bit sugary , otherwise harmless entertainment . i found it mildly amusing at best , so i'd have to give it
watchable mostly for Michael Caine's performance	this Sandra Bullock vehicle is watchable , and has some amusing moments . most of those amusing moments come from Michael Caine , with a few laughs from William Shatner . the plot is simple . Federal Agent Gracie Hart ( Sandra Bullock ) has to go undercover as a contestant in the Miss United States beauty pageant as her latest assignment . i won't give away the reason for this particular assignment . but i will say that Gracie is a tom boy with no idea of how to be a pageant contestant . the words couth or grace , or elegance are not a part of her vocabulary . this is where . Victor Melling ( Michael Caine ) comes in . it's his job to mold Gracie into someone resembling a pageant contestant . Caine gets the most laughs for the whole movie . other than him and William Shatner , the movie is nothing special . for me , Miss Congeniality is a
not that great	i was not too impressed with this movie . i found it boring and slow paced , for the most part . then just when it picks up momentum , a song starts up and slow everything down . there were just too many songs for my taste and i found some of the songs nonsensical . the animation is as good as many animated features , although there is one CG sequence which is very impressive . the movie depicts the Exodus of the Israelis from Egypt . there are some liberties taken , but there is a disclaimer at the very beginning that states this , so at least they are honest about that . i found the movie emotionally manipulative at times , so that was a bit annoying . anyway , for me , The Prince of Egypt is a
unless you're really bored , i wouldn't bother to pick up	to me , this movie is not great . the premise is of course , absurd , but i knew that going in , so that's not really the problem . the problem is , the movie itself doesn't generate much in the way of suspense or thrills . there's a subplot thrown in that doesn't really have a point . Shannon Sossamon is OK in her role , but not great . however , i didn't buy Ed Burns in his role as a cop , in the slightest . Margaret Cho has what amounts to a cameo as a cop . thankfully it was just a cameo , because i think she was miscast . i also thought the ending was a bit too anti climatic . actually the whole movie was anti climatic . if you just want to kill some time an a lazy afternoon , when you have nothing else to do , it's ' alright . otherwise , though , it's nothing special . not terrible , but not really good either . for me , One Missed Call is a
it didn't really do it for me	this movie didn't really do it for me . i didn't find it very exciting , nor very gory . the killer , in my mind is not that original . there is some gratuitous nudity in 1 scene , but for me , that isn't enough reason to like the movie . the ending kinda surprised me , although it probably shouldn't have . most people who watch this movie will probably figure out the ending long before . if you're into hi tech things , like programing video games , and if you like playing interactive games , with blood and guts , you might like this movie . there is some gore alright , but it's computer gore , which doesn't do it for me . i thought the movie was watchable , but average . i won't give the plot , because i already sort of hinted at it . it's not really original , but that doesn't really matter . to me , it's what's done with the material that's important . anyway , some people will love this game and others will hate it . some people like me , will be somewhere in the middle . i didn't love it or hate it . i just found it average . but that's just me . for me , " How to Make a Monster " is
average , cookie cutter action / suspense / pseudo espionage movie	the recruit is an okay movie , i guess . certainly nothing spectacular . there are some suspenseful moments in the movie . however the plot was much too complicated to the point of absurdity . this movie felt like it should have been released directly to video . it was your run of the mill action / suspense movie , ( with some espionage ) with nothing new or original . the suspenseful moments had all been done before , as good or better . the acting was okay , at best , given what the actors had to work with . the dialogue would not win any awards , and the screenplay was basically a knock off of many other , superior movies . truth be told , there wasn't really any reason to make this movie and so i can't give it a glowing recommendation . at best
interesting for awhile , but moves too slow	you know , i kinda liked this movie . i mean , it's definitely well made . it's interesting , for awhile . the problem is that it just moves too slow , and after awhile i had to stop watching . it stars Stacy Keach as a washed ex-pro fighter . he meets Ernie Munger ( a young Jeff Bridges ) at a local Y , hitting the boxing bag . the two spar together . eventually , Tully ( Keach ) takes takes Ernie under his wing and teaches him to become a good boxer . he also decides to get back in the ring himself . i didn't get that far ( i lasted about 50 minutes ) but i read it on the cover . anyway , if you have a lot of patience , you might want to give this one a try . for me , though , i just couldn't sit through it . my vote for Fat City :
two ghost tales . one good , one not	this movie is basically about two brothers and their cousin who decide to scare each other by telling each other spooky urban legends while camping out . i guess you could compare it the TV shows Goosebumps or Are You Afraid of the Dark , although it's not as good as either of those two . anyway , what follows are two separate tales . the first one is pretty good . it's sort of a black comedy . it is quite amusing , and compelling . plus , it is well written . the second of the tales is not so good . much of the odd behaviour and events are given no reason or explanation . also this tale is boring and feels way too long . the ending makes no sense and doesn't tie into the rest of the story . long story short , the first tale is good-second one-not so much . for me , this movie is a
no real excitement either ( )	i wanted to like this movie , but i just couldn't . it'a a formulaic crime dram , but that isn't the problem . the problem is , it's slow and unexciting for the most part . it has a few good moments , but those are few and far between . i felt like i was waiting for ever for something to happen . Richard Gere stars with Kim Basinger . Geer was decent , but not fantastic , and i was not at all impressed with Basinger in this particular movie . there's a also a romance angle that i didn't find convincing or interesting . i won't say who the characters involved are , but i felt zero chemistry between the actors , which is sorta important for any romance aspect . i also thought some of the dialogue was a bit silly . overall , i was fairly bored with this movie . it's not terrible , but not very good either . my vote for No Mercy is a
movie about a serial killer , with a bit of a twist	" Evil Lives aka " Soulmates " is weird to say the least . it's a Gothic horror / comedy / romance . the movie is very humorous at times , and many people might think it is unintentional . however , i believe it actually intends to be humorous and doesn't take itself seriously at all . it borrows from many other movies , so it's not original by any means . there are lapses in logic and what seems like bad acting . but like i said , it's all done tongue in cheek . if you listen carefully to the dialogue , you will notice this . i did not see anything resembling horror in it , but there is some suspense . there is a romance of sorts , but it's very twisted . it also moves quite slowly and is boring at times . basically it's about a serial killer of sorts , but no ordinary serial killer . there is an added element which makes the movie a bit more interesting than it would otherwise be , and it's amusing at times . the acting is deliberately over the top . this is no masterpiece , but it's not awful either . i give it
spares no expense with the " disgust " factor	i didn't really like this movie . i found it boring for two thirds . not a lot happens . and then , once things start happening , the movie gets pretty sickening at times . i don't mean that in the " Saw " series kind of way . this is much different than that . to me , it was just too much . you'll have to watch it to see what i mean . i also thought the movie was kind of confusing at times , but that may be just me . i thought the acting was good , especially by Chris Sarandon as the main character / villain in the movie . i don't think the movie was badly done . the makeup effects , i thought were pretty good , just too disgusting . if you have a lot of patience too get through the slow parts , and you have a really strong stomach , you might like this movie . or maybe you won't find it slow or even very disgusting and you might still like it . i can watch most slasher / horror movies with no problem . but like i said this movie is a whole new category of disgust . by the way , i haven't mentioned anything about the general plot line but you can probably use your imagination , based on the title . although i didn't like this movie on the whole , i will give the filmmakers credit for making a movie that comes very close to exceeding my disgust threshold , something i thought would never happen . as a result , i give " The Resurrected "
slow	this is one movie i can't say i liked or disliked . it was all story , not much anything else , which isn't necessarily bad . it was mostly as slow as molasses flowing uphill in January , yet just interesting enough to keep watching . it was also pretty glum , in my opinion . of course the typical stereotypes of the era are here in full force . not a horrible movie by any standard , but not great by any standard either . it's one of those movies where i could take it or leave it . after it ended , i was pretty much indifferent o the whole thing . it wouldn't matter to me whether i saw it again or not . but maybe i'm being too hard on it . maybe it is what it was supposed to be , a simple crime drama . anyway , for me , The laughing Policeman is a
poses some interesting philosophical questions , but . .	it just takes too long to get there . the movie is 136 minutes and in the first the first 65 or so , not much of any import happens . at least in my opinion . about halfway through , the story picks up a bit , but i didn't really find it all that engaging or compelling . there just doesn't seem to be much sense of urgency given the threat that the Enterprise has to deal with . i also found the movie lacking in excitement or suspense . as i said in the summary , the movie does pose some interesting philosophical questions , but it doesn't do much more than that . normally , that might not be such a bad thing , but in a Star Trek movie , i kinda expected some excitement and sense of danger , as well . to be perfectly honest , i think the threat in this movie is not as developed as it could have been . i found the movie to be more of a showcase for the special effects , and visually it does look quite nice . and the musical score is quite good . it's very fitting for the movie . overall though , i think this is a case of style over substance . i'm not saying this is a horrible movie , but i was disappointed . my vote for Star Trek : The Motion Picture :
much better than the Robin Williams remake Flubber	i won't say this a great movie , but i will say it sure beats the dreadful 1997 remake called Flubber starring Robin Williams . that movie was tedious , to say the least . this movie , at least , was somewhat entertaining , if not all that funny . there are a couple of mildly amusing moments . there is a lot of overacting , which i have found quite typical of Disney movies of that era ( 1950's through 70's ) but that was probably funny back then . Fred MacMurray plays the main character , professor Brainard , a chemistry professor who discovers a new compound that should revolutionize the world . of course , he's so busy working on his experiments , he neglects everything else in his life . MacMurray is very appealing and likable , as he is in any of his movies . my vote for The Absent Minded Professor is a
good idea , not so good movie	maybe it's just me , but i found this Halloween movie lacking . the idea was a good one , having this one take place twenty years after the events in the first and second films . all the sequels in between are ignored . however , i didn't find that much else to like about it . for one thing , i found the first hour quite slow . very little happens up to that point . plus , i thought the acting was below par in this one , even for this genre . but the biggest thing i realized , was that the character of Michael Myers does not inspire fear in this one . in fact , i found him kind of laughable . maybe it's just because there have been so many psycho villains since then , that the character isn't really that different from the rest . the point is , he just doesn't have much of an impact . i also thought some of the dialogue was pretty bad in this one . but the biggest thing for me , is that the way things happened in this movie just weren't realistic . i just didn't see it happening . despite all that , i still think it was a better film than the last one , part 6 : The curse of Michael Myers . for me Halloween H2O : Twenty Years Later is a
bland	for me , this movie was just bland . not really boring , but not really interesting either . it just plods along to the end . i also thought most of the characters were not interesting . in fact , some of them were unlikable . there are some good actors in this movie , but they seem to sleep walk through it for the most part . once in awhile there is a bot of overacting , at least in my mind . a little levity ( humour ) would have made the movie better . it's just takers the subject matter too seriously , in my mind . basically , i was disappointed in this movie . i had higher expectations . not the worst movie movie ever made , just sort of middle of the road for the genre . my vote for Ice Princess is a
low budget schlock , but entertaining a times ( )	this is a strange little movie . i mean it's very low budget and mostly poorly acted , perhaps on purpose . i'd swear it was done tongue in cheek yet at the same time it seems to take itself seriously . it has some pretty cringe worthy dialogue to say the least , and the story is quite silly , in my mind . at the same time though , it is fairly fun , and some of the characters are interesting . it's no masterpiece . in fact far from it . but i did find it a passably entertaining diversion . if you keep you expectation level really low for this movie , you might get some enjoyment out of it . it wasted around 85 minutes or so ( not counting the end credits . it's not memorable , and once it's over , you'll forget all about it . for me , Bats is a
middle of the road fare	i saw this movie when it first came out and loved . i thought it was brilliant . then i watched again yesterday , and my opinion has really changed . i wasn't too impressed this tome around . i think the movie is just too tame , and nothing really special . it's also slow , and not just in spots but all through . i wouldn't quite call it boring , but it is pretty close . there just isn't really a lot of suspense or tension . at least i didn't feel any . i don't think the actors can be faulted . they were all decent with what they were given . i think it had more to do with the script than anything . i really liked the music for the movie . i thought it was catchy and infectious . other than that though , there's not much to recommend this movie . it isn't horrible , but it just isn't any better or worse than many movies of the thriller genre . so for " The Crush " seems fair
A ghost horror story with little new ( but the atmosphere is fairly effective )	Death Tunnel is really nothing new , or special . it's a horror / ghost story . and again we have the tag line " based on true events " . whether movie is based on or inspired by true events really adds no merit to the movie . I'm won't give any of the plot away , but it has all been done before . also , the movie plods along at a snail's pace for nearly 2 thirds oft its running time . there are a few positives about the movie , however . one is that it is filled with an atmosphere of choking dread and oppression , which is always a good thing . also , the raw . unpolished look of the film added more of a realism to the events . the movie also had a morbid feeling to it ( always a good thing ) . the choice of music was different , but seems to work in this case . the acting however was hit and miss . sometimes the actors were believable , other times-not so much . , if you are a gore hound , this movie will disappoint . there is not much gore or blood to speak of . there is one scene which is moderately gory at best . they should have made it gorier . this movie tries to play on your psyche , but it doesn't really work . the ghosts do not inspire fear . the special effects for the ghosts were not great , but i will say the makeup dept did a good job with the dead bodies and such . the low budget really shows in a couple places . there was one really fake looking cgi shot ( of the building ) , and one shot which was clearly a miniature used for the building . the movie has little in the way of scares , but it's air of dread coupled with the morbid feel may make you ill at ease . i recommend " Boo " instead . as for Death Tunnel , i give it based upon the fairly effective atmosphere
patience is a virtue , and . . . ,	you will need it for this movie . it moves along pretty slow , bu to be fair it does build some suspense , and there a few good scares , and one blood curling moments , in my opinion . the character ( there are just two main ones ) are interesting , and the idea of the story is interesting . the setting is very appropriate . the acting is good , and the dialogue is sparse . yet is still found it lacking . here's why . even though there is some suspense , most times , those moments are dragged out too far , past where the moment should end . at that point , suspense is replaced with boredom and impatience . at least with me . and unfortunately there are a few too many of those moments . there are a few other movies thrown into the mix , so if you're a stickler for originality , this might not be your movie . so , is it worth it in the end ? i'm on the fence with this one . you best bet is to catch this on cable or as a cheap rental . for me , The Abandoned is a
has some good moments , but overall disappointing	to me , this is animated Hellboy feature is a mixed bag . firstly , i thought the story was pretty slow . the concept was interesting , but it didn't translate well onto the screen . some of the animation was pretty good , and some of it was pretty poor . the fight scenes were pretty good , i'll admit , and there were some funny bits . the voice acting was good , but it should be , since the same a lot of the actors in the live action features are in this one . i also found that the story , in addition to not being that interesting , was overly complicated and got bogged down quite a bit . there are some things which don't really seem to have context , and could have been left out . still , it wasn't anywhere near the worst movie i've seen . for me , Hellboy Animated : Sword of Storms is a
" Vengeance has many casualties . the guilty and the innocent "	i didn't think this movie was as good as the first one . to me , it didn't distinguish itself from most other revenge movies . it felt like one of the Death Wish films . the theme in the movie was vigilantism . at least that's the impression i got . also , i don't feel the title character evolved from the first one . he has little to do here . Arnold Vosloo takes over the role of Darkman , and does a good job with what he he has , but it isn't much good , when your character is is not very well defined . if only they had went somewhere worthy of the character , this could have been a good movie . as it is , i would say it passes about 90 minutes , and is watchable . but so are many movies . i'd say this was a disappointing follow up to the first film , but that's just me . my vote for Darkman II : The Return of Durant is a at best .
for me , it doesn't even touch Batman Begins	i loved the previous Batman film , Batman Begins . i thought it was brilliant , possibly the best superhero movie ever made . and with stratospheric hype this newest film had , combined with the trailers i had seen , i knew i had to see it . many people commented that it more than lived up to the hype , so i expected something earth shattering . to say i was disappointed is an understatement . there were moments where i was bored , and hoped it would end soon . Batman's voice in this movie annoyed me . it sounded like he had swallowed a bucket of gravel . either that , or had a bad case of laryngitis . maybe there was a reason behind this . but all it did was annoy me . as for Heath Ledger , and his performance as The Joker , i found it OK , but i wouldn't say it was award worthy . i mean no disrespect by this . when the movie finally ended and i left the theatre , neither the the character of The Joker , or any aspect of the movie stayed with me . bottom line , i didn't find anything profound in this movie . i was massively disappointed . it doesn't even touch Batman Begins , in my opinion . for me , The Dark Knight is a .
pathetic soundtrack mars an otherwise halfway decent suspense movie .	if i could use one word to describe this movie , it would be : disconcerting . not really scary , but there was a slight air of unease hovering over the film . the acting was surprisingly okay , and the premise was an interesting one : 50 years ago , two children disappeared , a young boy and a young girl . the girl's remains were found , but the boy was never seen again . it was rumoured that he was possessed by a local Indian tribe which may have killed the girl as part of a ritual to stop a severe drought . originally the natives apparently used a white dog in their ritual , ( hence the title ) rather than humans . no reason is given as to why they would then kill a girl instead . flash forward to present time . five people are sharing a cabin in the same remote location where the girl's body had been found found . I'll leave it at that . the one really annoying problem with this film is the soundtrack . every once in awhile a rock song would startup , which sounded as if the so called band would fail to make the grade as a bar band in the worst fleabag bar in existence . there were at least four occurrences of this , and each band was as horrible as the last . add to that the music does not fit the movie in any way . i'm suspecting the filmmakers hired the band as a favour to someone . it is this element which nearly sinks the movie into " B " movie oblivion . the other problem was the stupid and unsatisfying ending . i'll give this a / 10
typical road trip gone wrong / family bonding movie with a moral	Rv is basically national lampoon's " Vacation " lite . it is essentially a road trip disaster , family bonding along the way road trip . predictable , but funny in parts . the movie doesn't have the edge that vacation has and a some of the humour is potty humour . decent acting by all , but not much of a challenge for the actors . this movie has been done before , with varying degrees of success . some have been better ( vacation ) some worse . ( i won't mention any by name . there is one thing RV has that the other movies don't , and that is a message , specifically the value and importance of family . ordinarily i would say this would be a bit too preachy , but it is only in the latter stages of the film that we are treated to the sermon . overall the movie tries hard to be funny only succeeding on rare occasions . RV is neither a good movie or a bad movie . it lies somewhere in between . hence it rates
disappointing in the comedy dept	Admiral Frank Beardsly ( Dennis Quaid ) marries his high school sweet heart , Helen North ( Rene Russo ) . thing is , he has 8 kids , and she has 10 . his kids are strait laced by the book , owing to growing up with an admiral for a father . her kids are free spirited , with much more freedom of expression due to their mothers influence . so , the families merge and with the kids being total opposites , you would think this is a recipe for disaster . well , it should have been . but for some reason , it just doesn't seem to work . i think i laughed about 3 times , and that was courtesy of the pig . the rest of the time , i just waited , hoping for something funny to come along . and the typical Hollywood ending didn't help much . now , this is not a horrible movie , in fact it is entertaining at times , but i expected to laugh more , and based on that , i give " Yours , Mine and Ours " .
not that great an episode	this is the 3rd Justice League Episode i have seen in a row , the other two being The Return and For the man Who Has Everything . i didn't find this episode as good as either of the other two . this one has two related plot lines happening at the same time . unfortunately , we we barely even see the heroes , or the villains , for that matter . plus , i also didn't think the story was all that interesting , and the the episode was very slow paced . this episode was quite a letdown all around , from the other two episodes . by the way , all 3 of the episodes can be found on the Justice League Unlimited DVD entitled Joining Forces . anyway , as for this episode , i wouldn't call it awful , but i don't think it was great either . my vote for Justice League : The Greatest Story Never Told is a
part 1of 2 episodes	this the first of a two part episode . i can't say i was overly impressed with this episode . for one thing , i didn't think the voices fit , but maybe that just takes some getting used to . after all , this is the first full episode of the Justice League o have seen . however , i also didn't think the story was that great . i found it ordinary . this episode only features The Flash and Green Lantern . i will say though , that the episode was very fast paced . it was over before i knew it . i also liked the touches of humour . i didn't really like the animation that much , but again , that could be something that takes getting used to . i find it hard to rate this particular episode . there are some things i didn't like about it , yet i didn't find it awful , or boring . despite the problems i had with it , it certainly passes the time . i give it a
slightly better than the original	i thought this was a slightly better movie than the first one . it starts out the same , though . with about half an hour left , the movie becomes oddly involving and actually held me interest . once again , this movie is filled with references only adults would understand . this movie has a cheeky edge to it that the firs tone didn't have . it's thankfully , not as loud as the last one , and there are less annoying musical type songs . there is a bit of toilet humour this time around . again though , the kids will probably enjoy it and the adults will be mostly unsatisfied . it's unfortunate , since there are so many clearly geared toward adults . for me , This second Rugrats movie is a
i didn't think it was anything special	i did not think this was a good movie . i didn't find it profound or anything . if you work as a clerk in a convenience store or video store , you'll probably appreciate it more . for me , i thought it was mostly just two guys swearing a lot . there is some good dialogue on occasion though . the movie was made in black and white , which isn't a bad thing . sometimes it makes for more realistic atmosphere . it does that in this case . most of the cast had not acted in a film before . some have gone on to continue acting , while other haven't . this is Kevin Smith's directorial debut , and he also wrote the script . i know many people hail this movie as a great achievement , but i'm not one of them . i found this movie average at best . for me , Clerks is a
average spoof , with a few amusing moments	this is a spoof of other movies of that era , some horror , some not . i found it silly more than anything , and at times it denigrates into near stupidity . i was able to watch the whole movie , though it is quite slow at times . it does have some mildly amusing moments , coupled with some intentionally ( or not ) ultra cheap special effects , and some really bizarre looking monsters , some even stupid looking . this movie definitely inspired other movies down the road , some good , some bad . there isn't really anything resembling acting in the movie , except for Richard Benjamin who is quite good as the unflappable ( or clueless ) father who doesn't bat an eye , no matter what bizarre happenings are occurring right under his nose . he is quite amusing at times . otherwise , there is a lot of screaming and running around . For me , " Saturday the 14th " is a
good news . i just saved fifteen percent on my car insurance ,	oh yeah , and i also watched this movie . i wasn't really impressed . i'd say it was a run of the mill thriller , except it isn't really thrilling . the premise holds promise , but doesn't deliver . it's basically about a guy who can see two minutes into the future . the F . B . I . finds out about his gift and tries to use him to prevent a nuclear disaster . there's a bit more to the story , but there's nothing really that makes the movie compelling . the movie Stars Nic Cage as the main character , with Julianne Moore as the main F . B . I . agent . Jessica Biel also stars , but she is really just window dressing in this one . Cage and Moore seem to be just going through the motions here . for me , Next is an average movie at best .
decent , but lackluster follow up to the original	The follow up to Meet the Parents is generally a decent film . not as funny as the first , and a bit tedious at times , but all in all not a bad effort . In this installment , Pam's parents , the Byrnes ( Robert Deniro and Blythe Danner ) meet Greg's parent's , the Fockers ( Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand ) . the two families are like night and day , which should make for some hilarity , but fall a bit flat . there are some funny moments , just not as many as there could be , and this movie is not always entertaining . there are some spots that lag or scenes that could have been cut . the movie doesn't flow as smoothly as it should . The acting is fine . it is the material that is lackluster . i believe there are plans for a third installment . if so lets hope they iron out any bugs and maybe the third will be more on par with the first . this movie is average , but could have been so much more . out of 10
too many preposterous twists and the end twist doesn't ring true	this wasn't the movie i was expecting . i thought it would be clever and thought provoking . i was half right it . was thought provoking . it tries to be clever , but only succeeds in being too clever for it's own good . it's just way too convoluted with ridiculous plot twist after plot twist . the final plot twist is not logical and comes out of thin air . it's not predictable , because it doesn't make sense and isn't realistic . it seems almost tacked on . there are some good dramatic moments and some suspense here , along with good acting . Kevin Spacey and Kate Winslet are both fine . as i said , the movie will make you think . it does bring up relevant , topical issues . but when you get right down to it , it isn't believable . and that ending sinks it . my vote for the Life Of David Gale is a
alleged comedy , but not really	Chasers is billed as a comedy-which would be fine-if it were a comedy . in reality it's more like a drama / slash action film with some humour sparsely sprinkled here and there . very sparsely sprinkled . it is mildly entertaining , but not worth watching more than once-at least for a long time . that says a lot , considering the fact that Erica Eleniak is in it . alas even she cannot elevate this movie to anything beyond average . Dennis Hopper directed this movie-why i'm not sure . yes there is some action and Hopper himself has a completely ridiculous and pointless cameo . if you have nothing better to do , you could use up 101 minutes of your life on this movie . it's not the worst movie you've seen or will see . but it is , put simply-blah . in other words a completely forgettable movie . 5 because of Erica
neither good nor bad ,	but somewhere in between . James Van Der Beek has come a long way since his Dawson's Creek days . he was actually very good here . he plays a scientist sent to a small fishing community to find out why the fish stocks have depleted . Alexandra Castillo is also good as the local only ) law enforcement in the town . the movie itself is entertaining enough . there's not really much excitement though . for a creature feature , you don't see much of the creature . most of time , you are shown only a tentacle or two . there is one scene which shows the beast ( a giant squid ) but it's not a really clear view . for me , Eye of the Beast is somewhere in the middle , so i give it
does nothing to improve on the two previous installments	i think this a case of the Mad Max series losing steam . the first movie , simply entitled Mad Max , was exciting from start to finish . the second , Entitled Mad Max 2 : the Warrior had less but more intense action sequences and a better story . it also developed the character of Max ( Mel Gibson ) . however , this third installment does nothing to set itself apart , in terms of anything new , from the first 2 . it's really just old hat , just not done as well as the previous installments , particularly number 2 . i was quite frankly bore through out , just waiting for it to finally end . Tina Turner is in the movie , but unfortunately she has little screen time . i don't think this was a poorly made movie , just a boring one . my vote for Mad Max Max Beyond Thunderdome is a
this is the cut version . for the uncut version Check out the Anchor Bay edition	well , this installment of the Sleepaway Camp series is actually better than part two by far . it's also better than part one . this one starts off pretty good . it's also even a bit amusing at times with some decent one liners there , and there are a few inventive kills this time around . if you a gore hound though , this movie won't likely satisfy you . it isn't very graphic . there is some nudity , which never hurts . plus , this movie actually goes by a lot quicker . it's still not great by any means , but i think it's the best of the first three movies . the acting is nothing spectacular , for the most part . the lone exception is Pamela Springsteen as the psycho . she really nails the deadpan delivery of those one liners . when you add it all up , i guess this version of Sleepaway Camp III : teenage Wasteland is about a . by the way , this version of the movie is the cut version . for the uncut version , checkout the Anchor Bay edition , which is gorier and also has special features . and if you're a real fan , check out the three disc collection called Sleepaway Camp ( with survival kit ) which contains all three movie uncut and with special features .
the spiders were the best actors	this movie isn't ' total crap , but it's not great either . but you cant really expect much from these types of movies . there's almost no suspense and not very much excitement in this movie . it just sort of plods along to the end . it's entertaining , if nothing else . i mean , you get some horrid dialogue , sometimes delivered just as horridly . the acting isn't great , and some of the characters are as dumb as could be . i guess it's sort of in the category of so bad it's good . i thought the spiders were pretty good actors , at least . i've watched quite a few of these movies and this one is no better or worse than any other one of this type . i find this type of movie a good way to waste 90 minutes or so . besides , none of these movies come close to being the worst movie i have seen , so that's something .
a little too focused on family subplots , not enough on the storms , for my taste	this movie is too melodramatic at times and gets bogged down in dialogue and subplots that don't really advance the story , in my opinion . the acting is not bad , especially from Noel Fisher who plays Jeremy Landis , the teenage son of the lead female character Dr . Valery Landis ( Joanna Pacula ) a weather specialist . there is at least 1 positive thing about the movie , and that is the scenes involving the lightning storms . the effects are fairly well done , int his regard . i certainly didn't hate this movie , but i do wish it had focused more on the storm aspect than the family issues . it kind of felt like 1 of those ' Lifetime ' channel movies . if you don't mind that kind of movie , then you will probably like this 1 . if not , you might want to avoid it . i'd have to say this movie is average , so seems fair .
Okay military crime drama ,	but nothing special . no suspense or tension , and characters i didn't care about . i also thought the storyline was underdeveloped . for me , there was way too much talking and very little in the way of action or excitement . it's 92 minutes i could have been doing something else . it's not horrible , by any means , but it certainly didn't live up to my expectations . which is a real shame , considering Sean Connery and Mark Harmon are in it . both put in real good performances , but it's the story that lets them down . Meg Ryan also appears but has a very small role . long before it was over , i didn't care what happened to who , and i just wanted it too end . i give The Presidio a
number 4 in the series	i can't say this is an awful movie . it's just that it is so slow . until the last 15 minutes , nothing much happens . there is very little excitement , and i didn't find the storyline compelling . nor were there any great characters . there is some nudity , which doesn't really bother me . i am a guy , after all . and though there isn't a lot of profanity , what profanity there was , i felt was unnecessary and did not have any context in the movie . i don't mind profanity , but there should be a purpose or reason for it . but there is some good news . the special makeup and creature effects were pretty good overall . the acting was OK . and this movie is certainly better than the unfortunate Species 2 . i don't think it's as good as the original Species , and it's certainly nowhere near as good as Species 3 , which to me , is the best of the series . to me , this movie is somewhere in the middle . i give Species : The Awakening
i thought it was an average suspense chase movie	to me this movie was watchable , but not great . there was some excitement and suspense , but not as much as i had hoped for . the acting is pretty good . the characters were okay , although i thought Jan Michael Vincent's character was very strange and out of place in this movie . the movie didn't always hold my interest and my mind sometimes wandered . the basic plot of the movie is that a man videotapes some crooked police beating another man . the police notice they are being taped . from there , the man and his wife go on the run to escape the crooked cops who want the videotape . as far as this genre of movies goes , this movie is average . if you have nothing better to do , you could do worse . but , like i said there were times when my mind wandered , due to some slow spots . this is certainly not the worst movie of the genre i have ever seen , but not the best either . many people may really enjoy this movie . it just depends on your taste . for me , i give " Midnight Witness "
disappointing	boy , what a let down this movie was . i viewed the unrated version , which promised more sex , more skin , more laughs . from what i saw , there was very little skin here , not much sex , either , and zero laughs . Elisha Cuthbert is nice , but she can't make up for how disappointing this movie was . you can tell the movie had some intelligent thought behind it , and wasn't just going for bottom of the barrel comedy . unfortunately , something got lost in the translation for me , as the jokes weren't funny . in fact , i found the movie bland . though this version was unrated , the original version was rated R by the MPAA . in Canada , it was 18A , except for Ontario , which was 14A . i happen to agree withe 14A rating . for me , that's what it should have been rated , including the unrated version . my best advice , if you're a parent , is to pre screen the movie , and decide if you children are mature enough for it . for me , The Girl Next Door is a
nice dark atmosphere , but the story is slow	this film is more of a supernatural film than horror film . it isn't really scary , though it is creepy . it maintains a great dark atmosphere throughout . i thought the makeup effects were pretty elaborate for the creature , but that's just my opinion . the creature itself seemed pretty realistic , including its movements . as for the characters , they weren't really very likable , so it's hard to feel anything for their plight . the acting is merely adequate , with no real standouts , but Lance Henrickson was pretty good in his role . he was certainly the best in the movie . the movie itself tends to be slow art times . overall , id give Pumpkinhead a
spaghetti Western starring Lee Van Cleef and Jack Palnce	i don't know what to make of this Spaghetti western starring Lee Van Cleef and Jack Palance , and directed by Gianfranco Parolini , who was also known as Frank Kramer . it's very similar in style to The Man with no name trilogy by Sergio Leone . i didn't find it all that great . it plods along slowly , until the last 20 minutes or so , when it becomes somewhat interesting . it's an Italian production , obviously , and the dubbing is not that great . also , also the the acting was pretty bad , mostly by the extras , who were probably not actual actors , just people hired for the movie . i also thought the movie was disjointed at times , and didn't always make a lot of sense . but maybe i'm just missing something . anyway , as a piece of entertainment , it's mildly OK , but nothing spectacular . for me , God's Gun is a
a bit too mellow	while i will say this movie is certainly family friendly , i didn't really like it all that much . i felt it was too long and slow . i think it could have been 30 minutes shorter without missing anything important . the acting is good , but i found the characters bland and uninteresting . Hayley Mills is is a decent enough actress , and it must be hard for one actor to play twins convincingly , which Mills does . but the movie is a bit too mellow for my tastes . I did like Maureen O'Hara as the mother . she stood out from the rest . Brian Keith was also good as the father . this is definitely a movie the whole family can watch . i did think it was a bit mellow , but to be fair there were a few fun scenes , and some catchy songs . my vote for The Parent trap is a
an improvement over Superman III	this movie had a better storyline than number three . ( actually there's two story lines ) . it isn't as silly either . the problem though , lies how cheaply made it is . the special effects , if you can call them that , are laughable . the acting also seems to suffer here . it seems the actors knew they were in a a poorly done movie , so they may as well put as little effort as possible into their performances . frankly , to me , most of the actors look embarrassed to be there . i will say that choice of villain was good , but the character himself is too over the top for me . plus , the fight scenes are way too protracted . the movie does also get a bit sappy at times , which i guess you can expect given its subject matter . still , it was a bit too much for me . however , despite its problems , i like this movie more than number three . for me , Superman IV is a
i wish it had more action	this movie was not bad . it's a little too dramatic for my tastes . there is some action , just not as much as i'd hoped for . i was bored for a lot of it . there's a lot of talking in this movie , but nothing memorable about that aspect . the concept has likely been done before . a new substitute takes over teaching duties usually in a classroom full of troubled teens / gang members , delinquents , etc . but this sub is no ordinary sub . he has skills . in fact he isn't actually a teacher . but he pretend to be . he has ulterior motives . usually , someone he knows has been either killed or seriously injured . so he poses as a teacher to find out the truth . he usually teaches the students , some of them anyway , respect for themselves and tries to get them on the right track in life . that's pretty much the plot line for the substitute , among other similar movies . if you like that kind of movie , and you don't mind a fair amount of dialogue , with a bit of action , you might like " The Substitute " . i didn't like it all that much , so i'd have to give it a
not quite what i had hoped , but racing buffs will probably enjoy it	i should mention that i'm not really a racing fan . nevertheless , i picked this documentary up fairly cheap , and i thought it might be interesting and thrilling . and to be fair , it was-to a point . the scenes with the closeups of the car racing as it's being tested are quite exciting . the cameras are right on the car , so you can't get any closer unless you're actually behind the wheel . theses scenes really show you how skilled the drivers are and how dangerous the sport can be . and hearing the roar of engines was something . you really get an idea of how powerful they are . but for me , there were'nt enough of those moments . a lot of the time is spent showing how a car ( at least one car ) is manufactured . i knew before hand that there were would be some focus on this aspect . i just thought they devoted too much time to it . f you're into that sort of thing of thing , you will probably enjoy theses scenes . but for me , i'm not really into that sort of thing , so i found those scenes dry . there is a making of feature , which is almost as long as the documentary itself . this is not something that would interest me , so i did not watch it . however , if you're a racing fan , or you're just interested in the behind the scenes of the documentary , you might like the making of . overall , for me , i was kinda disappointed . i don't think the documentary is terrible by any stretch , but it did not live up to my expectations . i'd have to give Super Speedway a
disappointing to me	to me , this movie was disappointing . it's not a horrible film , but it just seemed blah . i do think some of the underwater scenes were nice , but other than that , i didn't find it interesting . i find it ironic that a movie involving deep sea diving has such a shallow plot . this is just my opinion . that wouldn't have bothered me so much , if the movie were fun and entertaining , but it just didn't it do for me . i don't think the movie was awful , it just wasn't anything . a movie about the deep blue turns out to be ' beige ' . ( bland ) i don't know what else to say , except that i probably wouldn't recommend It to my friends , based on my impressions , but to each their own . i guess i'd say this movie was average , therefore i give it
disappointing sequel	i didn't think this this sequel to The Man From Snowy River was that great . i thought it was too drawn out . plus , it was fairly heavy on the romance angle , which isn't my cup of tea . Tom Burlinson returns as Jim Craig , the title character in the first movie . Sigrid Thornton returns as his love interest . Kurt Douglas played her father , Harrison , in the original . Brian Denehey plays that role in this movie . this is not the worst movie i have seen , but it wasn't as good as i'd hoped . still , just like the first one , there is some very beautiful scenery , and a great musical score . Burlinson and Thornton are both decent actors , at least in this movie . Dennehy is also good . for me , Return to Snowy River is a
young kids will love it	while i didn't think this was a bad movie , i don't think it holds a candle to the first 101 Dalmatians movie . i found it much slower for the first half or so , and then it piked up . there's quite a bit of slapstick , once again involving Cruella de vil and her henchmen Horace and Jasper . this movie is certainly much more colourful than number 1 . however , Cruella is a pale shadow of herself in this one . she's is much less evil , more of a parody of herself from the first movie . The Patch referred to in the title is one of the Dalmatian Puppies . older children and adults may think it a bit slow , ( there is less excitement or thrills ) ) and lacking much in the way of story , but young children will love this movie . for me , i Give 1001 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure a
a bizarre , very stylistic take on " little red riding hood "	Neil Jordan's company of wolves is a strange movie , to say the least . it is esoteric and surreal , and filled with imagery and symbolism . aesthetically speaking it is beautiful to watch . this is not a movie about werewolves per SE , but a commentary on the human condition and the beast that lurks within us all . the movie also contains strong sexual undertones and delves a bit into some disturbing subject matter including a young girl , perhaps fourteen or fifteen and an adult male . there are strong undercurrents of sexual chemistry between the two , and while nothing sexual does occur , the implication is clearly there . the movie is purely fantasy , of course , and at times cartoonish , sometimes to the point of absurdity . at times it is simply a parody of itself . the transformations are nothing spectacular , which may be intentional . the movie doesn't take itself seriously but is certainly not a comedy . it is certainly stylish , and also has substance , which is not readily apparent , at first glance . it is interesting to watch , and i can't say whether i will watch it again or not . i didn't dislike nor did i particularly like it . it is however a unique experience . i should mention that there is one scene which i found quite disgusting which occurs about twenty minutes in , so you might want to prepare yourself . certainly a hard film to rate , but i will give it based on the look of the film and its uniqueness . not for everybody . out of 10
starts out slow , picks up steam in second half	as far as western go , this one is pretty decent once you get past the half way point . until then , it's a bit slow , with not much happening . after that , things pick up and the story gets interesting . it follows the formula of many western of the day . corrupt landowner wants all the neighboring land around him and has the law in his pocket , so to speak . but of course there's always someone who won't be forced off his land . a feud of sorts erupts , and people on both sides die . i was surprised at the ending . it wasn't how i expected things to end . and there's also a little bit of a twist , if you can call it that , that was interesting . given the title , i expected the movie to be more violent . in fact , the violence is minimal and tame , even by the standards of the day . for me , The Violent men is a
unfortunately " Sleep Aid " would have been a more apt title ( although they tried hard to make this one work )	i didn't like this movie too much . as a matter of fact , it nearly put me to sleep . how's that for irony . the movie is basically about murder which occurs in a small Alaskan town . two big city cops are sent to investigate . the twist to this movie . the sun doesn't set , which throws everything out of whack for the detectives and complicates their investigation . Robin Willima is in this one , in another darker role for him . Al Pacino , Hilary Swank and Martin Donovan also star . there's nothing wrong with the acting , but the movie is much to methodical , as it slowly plods from one clue ( or non clue ) to the next . as i said earlier , i had a heck of a time staying awake with this one . Christopher Nolan directed this movie , but he cannot be blamed for this one . the writing is the culprit here . i suspect , it looked good on paper and even while they were filming , but somehow the end product doesn't seem to work . i think they tried really hard with this one , but sometimes things just don't work out the way you planned . this is not a horrible film , but it's just missing something . i give " Insomnia " for the effort .
where no Friday the 13th movie has gone before	this 10th installment in the never ending Friday the 13th series of films is is a blend of science fiction , action adventure and comedy . it's set in space in the year 2455 , and is pretty much ignores the rest of the films , other than still having a hockey masked Jason slaughtering people . it's somewhat entertaining , and funny on occasion , with a fair amount of action . and Jason gets an upgrade of sorts , so that was kinda interesting . it also has its slow moments where it's a bit too talky . and i feel the acting in this one is worse than in any of the others . but the idea to set it in space is fairly novel , if nothing else . for me , this 10 movie in the series gets a
has some amusing moments	there's are certainly a few amusing moments here , and i think i laughed pretty hard twice . overall , though , i thought it would be funnier than it was . it's still entertaining , and it's suitable for the whole family . there's no crude , lewd or potty humour . i think the DVD is missing a bit of footage from the version i viewed on TV way back . there's one hysterical scene that's missing . it's a very memorable scene . too . if you're looking to pass 93 minutes of your time , this movie will certainly do the trick . and who knows , you may even find it drop dead funny . it all depends on your taste . for me , The Snowball Express is a
somewhat suspenseful and amusing	this original version of Prom Night is much different than the remake . for one thing , there is actually some suspense in this one . plus the musical score is quite eerie and effective for awhile . at times though , the score just keeps going and going where it gets to be annoying . of course the score always telegraphs the impending death scene . there are also some scenes with the killer chasing the victim , or victims , around , which come off as clumsy and comical . and this being an 80's horror movie , it has that staple of most 80's horror movies - - bad acting . but it also has bad music ( not including the score ) and bad dance moves . however , the movie is mildly entertaining , and it certainly has a dark enough tone . i don't consider a classic , though . for me , Prom Night is a
great looking sets , but not much else	This is a movie that makes little sense , but then i don't think it's supposed to . regardless , i didn't think it was that great . i found it slow and boring , and it had too many musical numbers for my taste . but i will say that Robin Williams was good as Popeye , and i liked Shelley Duvall was good as Olive Oyl . i didn't like the character of Bluto very much . he just seemed like a poser full of hot air . maybe that's how he was supposed to be , but i still didn't like him . i did like the look of the film though . i think a lot of effort was put into the sets . to me , the setting looked like an authentic village by the sea . overall though , i wasn't impressed . but if you're a fan of the old Popeye cartoons from the 30's and 40's , you might like this movie . my vote for Popeye is a
nowhere near the standard set by the original	for me , this sequel to " 28 Weeks Later " is quite inferior to the first one . i found it slow and very boring for the most part . there is less action , but when there is action , it is relentless and frenetic . this is a good thing , except there are not enough of these scenes in the movie . on the plus side i thought the infected had a much better look in this one . they really looked more enraged in this one . i did not like however , the emphasis on gore in this one , compared to the first . i don't mind gore , but the first one succeeded without it , so this one should have as well . mind you there isn't a lot of gore compared to other movies . but there was too much for this movie . i also didn't like the ending . it was too abrupt for my taste . there was a 5 year gap between the original and this movie . to me , it wasn't worth the wait . i won't say this movie is horrible . it isn't , it just doesn't measure up to the standard of the original . if their is a third , i hope they do a better job than this one . for me , " 28 Weeks Later " is a
lacklustre sequel	pretty much blah-is how to describe this movie . i found it even slower , than the original ( boring in fact ) . it's also not scary or even creepy . plus , there are so many things that are preposterous about it all , it's hard to know where to begin . if the movie wasn't so boring , a lot of the absurdities could be forgiven or maybe not even noticed . not so in this movie . i do think that the acting was a bit better though . then again that's not saying much . i really noticed the low budget in this one , which is ironic , considering i think it had a bigger budget than the original . i have seen a lot of abysmal movies , and this does not fall into that category . i did find it lacklustre , though . oh , yeah , there is some nudity in this one , but only one or two scenes . there is is only one scene with the F-word . otherwise , the language isn't that bad . anyway , the most i can give Halloween II is a
just be yourself ( )	that seems to be the overriding theme in this animated film . young kids will probably like it due to the bright colours and loud noise . the message is good , but the movie itself is not that special . it is obviously family friendly , as there's nothing objectionable i can think of . so parents . can be pretty confident they can set their kids down in front of this by themselves with no worries . the CG animation is pretty good , and i liked the voice talent . it plods along pretty slowly though to its inevitable conclusion . still , it's not a horrible movie by any stretch . and it's less than 80 minutes , so that's a good thing . and it's a really positive movie . for me , The Nutty Professor ( 2008 ) is a
borrows elements form other movies in the genre , but is better than many of them	i didn't mind this movie . it had some definite eerie moments . the atmosphere is great . the music is really haunting , as well . i did find some of the movie similar to others in the genre , but i found it much better than The Ring , or The Grudge . i wish the movie had been more straight forward . i didn't like the fact that it was so loud at times . that kinda annoyed me . i thought Forest Whittaker was good in his role , and Justin Louis was good , as well . but Gabriel Anwar , the lead , i didn't like very much . she seemed too aloof and inaccessible as an actress , and it to me , it came across on screen . maybe that was how the character was supposed to be , but it didn't work for me . for me , The Marsh is a
entertaining first movie of the Shadow series	this is the first of 6 in the series of The Shadow movies . i didn't mind it . it's entertaining , though not outstanding . Lamont Cranston AKA The Shadow finds himself in the middle of a mystery . Cranston ( Rod La Rocque ) is also a lawyer and an amateur criminologist , so his skills come in handy and he solves the mystery . possible minor spoilerThe Shadow only makes an appearance , twice , and since they didn't have any cinematic tricks back then , is actually just La Rocque covered in a black cape from head to toe . but still , i wasn't bored , and the movie is entertaining , and that's what counts . for me , The Shadow Strikes is a
at least the previews were good	this was a disappointing movie for me . the previews made it look good ( as they usually do ) so i had high hopes for it . sadly though , this thing is mostly boring , and slow . and way too long . not much of excitement happens , and a lot of things are not fully explained , so they don't quite make sense . or maybe i just missed something . i like Clive Owen , and Naomi Watts , but they just happen to be in a lacklustre movie . to be fair , there are a few moments of action and excitement . it just isn't ' enough . now , don't get me wrong . i like drama in my movies sometimes , but these dramatic moments are not that compelling , mostly , i think because of the dialogue , which to me , seemed ordinary . and finally , the ending . not only did it not end when it should have ( being 20 minutes too long ) but the ending didn't really make a lot of sense . despite all that , this is not a horrible movie . and believe me i know horrible when i see it . so for The International is a
typical crime drama with nothing memorable	this movie is a so so crime drama . i mean it's not really awful , but it is awfully slow and not really memorable . this movie has been done before , it just had a different title with ( maybe ) different actors , and the same characters but with different names . Wesley Snipes is Jimmy Mercer , an undercover treasury agent who's good friend / work colleague has been killed during an undercover operation . naturally Mercer vows to catch the bad guys . Dan Hedaya is Brady , Mercer's partner . also in the movie are Dennis Hopper , ( you can probably guess what role he plays ) , Viggo Mortensen , Tobin Bell , Paul Gleason , Christine Elise , Johnathon Banks , Lolita Davidovich and Valerie Perrine and Tony Lo Bianco . the people who really impressed me were Valerie Perrine and Dan Hedaya and Paul Gleason . the rest of the cast is all okay , but doesn't really stand out . the movie is just only 92 minutes , but it feels way longer . i just thought it took too long for things to get rolling . and like i mentioned , the movie is not original . the only thing i really like about was is the music , especially the big band stuff . otherwise , it's your stand crime drama , better than some , not as good as others . for me , " Boiling point " is a
Scooby and the Gang once again Meet up with the Harlem Globe Trotters	this is another another episode of The New Scooby-Doo movies . Once again the gang meet up with the Harlem Globe trotters and end up in the middle of a mystery . this episode is not too bad . it's actually got some pretty funny moments . it's paced pretty good too . it moves at a good clip . the story wasn't too bad either . . the Globe Trotters had quite a few funny lines and i don't even recall hearing the annoying laugh track this time around . things do get pretty repetitive though . this isn't the worst Scooby Doo adventure I've seen , but it's not the best either . still , it is entertaining and even funny at times . it's probably average at best . for me , The Mystery of Haunted island is a
a pale imitation of it's predecessor	unfortunately , this second live action film is a pale imitation of its predecessor . it's a lot slower , and the story feels contrived . it almost seems like filler to me . there are a few comic moments , though not as many as its predecessor . i think they should have left it at the first one , 101 Dalmatians . Glenn Close returns as Cruella De Vil , and is good , but has much less to do this time around . plus , her two henchmen form th preventions film are not in this one , and they added some comic relief . Gerard Depardieu is in this one , in a completely ridiculous role , and he looks quite silly , to be polite . despite its problems its still watchable . my vote for 102 Dalmations is a
mild Disney flick	and i do mean mild . this movie reminded me , in a lot of ways , of the 1960's show Lost in Space . the acting was similar , the characters seemed similar , the special effects seemed similar . the dialogue was pretty bad at times . or at least i thought it was . the one really good effect was the black hole itself . it looked really magnificent . otherwise , though , you could tell it was a Disney flick by the cheesiness of the rest of the special effects . the movie did have some mild comic relief in it . the musical score was actually pretty decent . the only problem was that it seemed ill timed . it would be in scenes were it wasn't necessary . as for the acting , some of it seemed hammy . overall , though , this wasn't a bad movie . just don't expect too much in the way of excitement . for me , The Black Hole is a
action packed , yet lacking	running scared is non-stop action from the get go . it is entertaining , but seemed to be missing something , though i can't say what . this movie did not really distinguish itself from others of the genre . there is nothing new here , and maybe that's what's missing . the movie could have benefited if there had been a twist of some sort . as it is this is standard action movie . i did like the touches of humour sprinkled throughout , which was good because the movie is so dark in tone . i realize the filmmakers were probably going for realism , but it wasn't necessary to have a much swearing as they did , particularly the f-bomb . the acting was good , though not brilliant by any stretch . i did think that vera farmiga was excellent in the small role that she had . the humorous parts in the movie reminded me of ( oddly enough ) of " analyze this " , a comedy which ironically i did not like . though i liked running scared , it could have been a better movie , certainly without so much foul language . if you are easily offended by strong language , you might want to stay away from this movie . it is also quite violent , though no more than any other movie of its type . not for everybody
not my cup of tea ( )	this film has the ' based on true events ' tag . i guess things could have happened the way they were shown in the movie , but i'm guessing it would be rare . it's basically about two people who are left behind in the ocean after their dive tour boat accidentally leaves without them . that's the gist of the story . there's some scenes before of the couple before their tour , showing them at home and then at their hotel room , but to me , theses scenes weren't really necessary . but then again , the movie is only around 80 minutes long , so i guess they wanted to stretch out the running time . i just wanted them to get right to point of the couple in the ocean , as they tried to survive . ironically , for me , when the movie gets to that point , i found it boring and slow . there is some dialogue between the two , but i didn't think it was all that compelling . plus , the setting is the same the whole time . generally , i can't say i liked the film that much . after awhile , i just wanted it to be over . form me , Open Water is a
i liked the first half	it thought the first half of this film was pretty good . instead of being your standard teen romantic comedy , it actually had some slapstick thrown in , some of which was quite amusing . to me , that was kinda different for this genre . at least it was something i hadn't seen before . not that that means anything . and the movie also had a bit of a musical bent to it , which i liked . sure , most of the movie is fairly predictable . but then most movies are , at least to a point . anyway , the movie moves along fairly well for the first 45 minutes or so . but then it gets really bogged down . you kinda know how things are gonna end up , but it seemed to take forever to get there . as a result , i just wanted it to finally end . for me , because of the slow ( and to me , boring ) second half , i can only give Get Over It a
not what i expected	this movie is not what i expected . it wasn't horrible but i didn't think it was great either . i found most of the movie way too depressing and it didn't seem to have a point . it gets a bit better toward the end , but i still found it lacking . i think it tried too hard to be profound , and for me , it didn't succeed . i also found the acting not that great , but it also got better toward the end . i think many critics seem to think that the more depressing a movie is , the better it is . or at least many seem to give ratings that reflect that . to me , that doesn't make sense . but the opposite also seems true ( though not always ) . if a movie is light hearted and entertaining it gets a lower rating because there is not some deep profound meaning behind it . i mentioned that i didn't see the point to this movie . i say that because it seemed liked it was trying to be deep and meaningful . if that is a movies intent , then it should more clearly reflect that . and in this case , it doesn't seem to . For me " The Quiet " is a
brilliant ending , plus Rutger Hauer as Dracula , elevate this movie	this sequel to Dracula II : Ascension , which is sort of a sequel to Dracula 2000 , has much more story than either of the other tow . almost too much , in fact . it moves at a pretty slow pace , then , just when you think you can bear no more , something interesting happens to keep you watching . Two of the main characters from Dracula II are more fleshed out , and there is a wee bit of humour to lighten things up on one or two rare occasions . near the end , when i thought it was over , i was thinking how anti climatic it all was . but i realized it wasn't quite over , and the actual ending is brilliant . it begs for a sequel , which is not likely to happen . and yet , it's also a perfect conclusion . the ending ( well , that and Rutger Hauer as Dracula - - a stroke of genius ) is what elevated the move for me . otherwise , i would have given this 2 or 3 stars less . as it stands , i give Dracula III : Legacy a
the less famous prequel to The Bells of St . Mary's	this is the prequel ( and less famous cousin ) to The Bells of St . Mary's . it's basically about a priest named Father O'Malley who is assigned to a new Parish which is struggling financially , in hopes to turn its fortunes around . of course , there's more to that to the story , but i won't give it away here . Bing Crosby plays O'Malley , who is filled with the eternal hope and optimism of youth , and has a way with people . and he also sings . Crosby's voice is smooth as silk to begin with , and once he sings , it's pretty hard not to be affected . some of the songs tend to be bit long and a bit maudlin , and things move slowly at times . overall , though this a pleasant 125 minute diversion . and i found it very touching . i even teared up a couple times . for me , Going my Way is a
decent family fare	this Eddie Murphy movie is actually pretty good . it's funny , spooky and mysterious . the title pretty much says what it's about . basically , Murphy's character and his family are drawn into a mystery involving an old , obviously haunted mansion . i thought Jennifer Tilly was very funny here . it's PG rated movie , so it's suitable for most viewers . there maybe a few scenes a bit too intense for very young viewers . other than that , it's clean viewing entertainment . it's got a current low rating of 4 . 8 , which i don't happen to agree with at all . it may not be Eddie Murphy's finest hour , but so what . it's a decent family movie that kids and most adults should enjoy too . my rating for The Haunted mansion is
war really is hell	at first , i didn't like this movie too much , but as it went along , somewhere along the line i ended up liking it . this fourth and final installment of the series shows a softer gentler side of John Rambo , who just really wants to live in peace , like always . but , he is pulled into a war which was not his . this , better than any of the other Rambo movies , demonstrates that war really is hell . the human cost is the worst . the body count in this one is higher than in the previous movies , and the violence is way more brutal and graphic . we're talking body parts flying all over the place , decapitations , disembowelment . this to me , is the saddest and most tragic chapter in the Rambo series . but the story has more depth than the last two , and the human element is very strong here . i wouldn't say this was an enjoyable movie because there is too much death and destruction for it to be enjoyed . i think this movie was made to teach us a lesson . whether it succeeds or not is another story . for me , Rambo is a
decent horror movie with a few leaps of logic	high tension is a pretty decent movie , as horror movies go . it has some tension , and some suspense and their are a few scenes that will get your adrenaline rushing . it also has some pretty brutal violence . the acting was good and the film was very atmospheric when it needed to be . i do have a few complaints , however . one is that the version i watched alternated between English subtitles and dubbed English throughout the movie , which was quite annoying . there are some inconsistencies of course , but that is to be expected in a horror movie . also , you have to dispense with logic , again normal in a horror movie . on the plus side high tension didn't have the usual unintentional laughs found in most horror movies . a very rare trait , indeed . all in all , high tension was a fairly decent horror movie . , which my friend and both enjoyed .
mostly entertaining and fun but should have a " PG " rating instead of " G "	this animated movie is pretty good , all things considered . i thought it was funny at times , but i thought there were too many musical numbers for my taste . also , the movie is rated " G " and i think it should have been rated " PG " . there are a few scenes which i think might be a bit too intense for young children . the villain may be a bit too scary . i also thought the movie dragged a bit too much at times , though i did like the look of the film . it was very colourful and nice to look at . i'm not sure how historically accurate it is , but if that's what you look for in a movie , you should probably stick to documentaries . i thought the voice actors fit their characters well , which really helps in an animated movie . to me , this was a pretty good movie overall , though i don't think it was a masterpiece . it was mostly entertaining and fun , but again , parents should use their discretion for this one . for me , " Anastasia " is a
authentic portrayal of the Sioux Indians of the time	at the beginning of this movie , there is a blurb about how the events portrayed are taken directly from historical documents of the period . the South Dakota Sioux Indians also had a lot of input into the movie . so , we can assume it is fairly accurate . one thing it does is show the Native American Indians as being just like any other people . this movie took awhile to get going , in my mind , but once it does , it's action packed , and it's very well acted . Richard Harris is the title character . he is a British Lord who is captured by the Sioux in the mid 1800's . first he is treated with disdain , as nothing more than a servant to the aging mother of the chief . gradually , though , things change , though , and he becomes much more . this is a very touching and heart breaking movie . it's also very thought provoking . overall , i give A Man Called Horse a
so so movie made better by lead performances	i guess this movie is OK . it's about a woman who meets the man of her dreams . they get married and everything seems perfect . four years later , things appear great . then , things start to unravel , slowly at first . hubby becomes manipulative and controlling , and then verbally and physically abusive . wife escapes his clutches , moves to new town , changes identity , new job , etc . then hubby tracks wife , swears revenge for her leaving , vows to kill her . that's the gist of the story , although there's a bit more going on , but i won't give it away . Julia Roberts plays the wife and Patrick Bergin plays the psycho husband . both are good in their respective roles , but the movie itself is lacking any real intensity and even though the wife is in danger , i just never really felt her jeopardy . in fact i found the movie boring and slow . i think that had more to do with the writing than the acting . this movie is standard for this genre , not that great , but there are worse . the performances of the two leads are enough to elevate the movie . so instead of , i give " Sleeping with the Enemy "
not bad , has its moments	i guess this movie is OK . it has a few good moments , but it's generally pretty slow . it is watchable for sure , but given the premise i thought they could have developed the story and the characters more . for me , the villain in the movie is a bit weak , which is something i really wish they had worked on a bit more . a stronger villain would have elevated the movie . one thing's for sure , it is a weird movie . i really like the music . it's suitably sombre . the acting is good , for what the actors had to work with . i also like the dark tone of the movie . overall though , i guess i was a little disappointed . the story had so much potential which the movie barely hinted at . for me , Poison Ivy is a
a career performance by Will Smith ( too bad the movie is sub standard )	this film about Muhammad Ali is a disappointing effort . it's over long , boring at times and lacking much intensity . the movie is all flash and no substance . Will Smith though is very brilliant in the title role . he inhabits Ali's body and soul . the problem is , the movie is not worthy of his huge talent . it does have its moments , but really it has an empty incomplete feel to it . after it was over , i was left unsatisfied . this movie should have been great , but there's something missing . though Smith exudes heart , soul and intensity , the movie has neither . i had such high hopes for this one . the irony of it all , is this may well be Smith's greatest performance so far , that i have witnessed . he really put on an acting clinic . even though the movie fails to impress , i recommend for those that want to see what real acting is . as a result , i give " Ali "
Much better than i thought it would be ( worth the 2 hours )	this is a surprisingly entertaining movie . it won't win any awards for originality . this plot line has been used several times , sometimes to better effect , sometimes not . as a matter of fact , Charlie Sheen would star in pretty much the same movie , Beyond the Law , one year later ( 1992 ) . both are comparable efforts . any way , in Stone Cold Brian Bosworth , an ex football player , takes on the role of of the undercover cop . He does a surprisingly admirable job . it's strange that his film career didn't take off , as his acting ability equals ( probably surpasses ) that of Stallone and Shwarzennegger when they started out . He is certainly better than Van Damme . Lance Henrickson is well cast as the chief bad guy in the film . action abounds in this movie , leaving pretty much no dramatic moments . of course in most movies of this type , there is zero character development , but that can be forgiven in this case . the movie knows what it is and doesn't try to be something it's not . it is pure fun . oh , yeah , i almost forgot . William Forsythe also plays a baddie and is brilliant as always . this is definitely a great way to entertain yourself for 2 hours .
the most eerie and suspenseful of the four	to me , this movie is the best of the four . it's the most suspenseful and creepy . the story has a mostly religious bent to it , and of course there is the Latin chanting which comes with these movies . for me , i find that very eerie , to say the least . the music is quite eerie , as well . the suspense in this movie is quite high . to me , it became almost unbearable at times . the idea of a fanatical nut thinking it is their job to cleanse people of sin ( by killing them ) isn't really new or original today . it wasn't really original back in 1991 when this movie was released . but , for me , it worked in this case . . while this is no masterpiece , i did like it . one thing i didn't like was the potty mouth of one of the female characters . i just didn't think it was necessary . for me , Prom Night IV : Deliver us From Evil is a
better viewed when not sleep deprived ( as i was )	i just finished watching this movie ( sort of ) and it just failed to hold my interest for more than few moments at time . to be fair though , i hadn't slept all night , so might have influenced things . i did however get the bulk of the story , which in nutshell , involves Abott and Costello meeting a Mummy in Egypt . a lot of the film involves sight gags , such as Abbot repeatedly slapping Costello for something stupid he says or does . after hearing Abott insult Costello for the umpteenth time , i sort of wondered why they even hung out together . silly , i know , but that's what i kept thinking . Costello constantly screaming Abott's name whenever he perceived he was in trouble got a bit grating . there is also a lot of ( pointless , i thought ) running around crazily . there is one particular sequence which i found very ridiculous ( not in a good way ) involving a dead body being moved from room to room each time Costello stumbles upon it . naturally , he runs screaming in hysterics to Abott , telling him he found a dead body . just as naturally , it is never where he saw it . this should have been funny , but wasn't . i also felt they just seemed to be doing the same shtick over and over ad nausiam . yet the movie wasn't boring , just sort of beige . i have listened to many of Abbott and Costello's radio shows and find them much funnier . but i will view this film again under more optimal viewing conditions and maybe i will have a much more positive experience . for now ,
absurd , and fun	i liked this movie . it's typical Disney silliness of that era , but it is fun and goofy , even absurd . there's a lot of overacting , but so what . this was supposedly a Kurt Russel vehicle , but it's really an ensemble cast . i liked Caesar Romero the most though . the story is simple . a college student discover a strength formula , and things go from there . if you're looking for high art , you won't find it here , but if you want something that's family friendly viewing , with a few amusing moments , this might be your movie . Kurt Russel starred in a lot of these silly Disney movies , starting as a teenager , and yet still manged to become a serious actor as an adult . anyway , for me , The Strongest Man in the World is a for me .
entertaining TV movie as good as some of the Hollywood drivel which passes as entertainment	as made for TV movies go , this one is not bad . not great , but not bad . to be honest , i don't mind most TV movies . true , they are very predictable , and most so called plot twists can be figured out by a 3 year old . having said , they can be entertaining . that pretty much describes " Thrill of the Kill " . here's the basic plot outline . Kelly Holden ( Shiri Appleby-Swim Fan , The TV series Roswel ) can not let go of her sister's murder , which happened a year ago . She believes she can find out who the killer is . She enlists the help of murder mystery novelist Graydon Jennings ( Chris Pottter-Kung Fu : the Legend Continues , Silk Stalkings ( 10 episodes ) who happens to be in her town for a book signing . Because all of his novels are written from the point of view of the killer , she believes he may have some valuable insight . Naturally , there are more than a few suspects , but it is pretty easy to figure out the killer , way before the movie ends . Both Appleby and Potter are decent actors who do well with what they have . the movie is an entertaining 88 min diversion , which is probably all it sets out to be . Many people are critical of TV movies , sometimes referred to as the " movie of the weak " . they are criticized for having basically the same plot , just different actors . this is true , but it is also true of much of the crap that is churned out for the big screen by Hollywood . there is certainly very little creativity there . the only difference may be bigger budget , big name actors and sometimes special effects , all designed to woo the viewer into thinking they're seeing something new . in other words , disguising the fact that they are watching the same old thing each time ( yes , there are exceptions ) . add to that the fact that these big screen movies are actually trying to be creative or at least think they are . now , with the so called movies of the week , the filmmakers and actors know what their product is and don't try to make it anything more than it is . so , the above criticisms of TV movies are not valid . generally a movie of this sort deserves a unless it is woefully worse than any other movie . since Thrill of the Kill is no worse than other TV movie and as good as some of the drivel that the big Machine spews out , this one also gets a
wafer thin premise , but much better than # 3	this is the fourth and final installment in the " Jaws " franchise . this movie is not as bad as the third one . in fact it is much better . the only problem with this movie is its wafer thin premise . you really have to suspend your belief for this one . not that you didn't need to for the third one , but this one takes it to another level entirely . if you can get around that , you might enjoy this movie . it goes back to the roots of the first two and utilizes what worked the first time . there's more action in this one , not really alt of suspense to speak of though . there is however , some humour , in the form of Michael Caine as Hoagie / an island pilot , among other things . Mario Van Peebles also provides some laughs as Jake , a graduate student working in the field of marine life study . this movie does have its slow spots , but it manges to pickup before becoming too tedious . overall , i'd have to give " Jaws : The Revenge "
Edward . R Murrow vs senator Joseph McCarthy	i just watched good night , and good luck , which is about CBS newsman Edward R . Murrow and his fight against senator Joseph McCarthy , a junior senator from Wisconsin , during the 1950's . this was a time of hysteria regarding communists and communist sympathizers in America and anyone else who may have had dealings with them . it was basically a time where anyone who was deemed a threat to national security was targeted by senator McCarthy and others in hearings held against them . many of these people lost their jobs or worse based on little or no evidence against them . that is the premise of the movie good night and good luck . it is based on a true story , but you have to take it with a grain of salt as it is biased on the side of Edward R . Murrow and other people who share his view and opinions . obviously it is slanted towards the view of the people who made the film . so you really have to make up your own mind about how accurate it might or might not be . however , as simply a movie , it is very entertaining , with great performances all around from an ensemble cast . it is well directed and shooting it in black and white was very effective . at times however , it was preachy , which was annoying , and i'm still not sure why Murrow ended each broadcast with the words " good night and good luck " and i found that a bit annoying . i would have liked the filmmakers to give an explanation for those words , maybe show the genesis behind them and give them more meaning , put them into context . i'm not saying whether the movie was accurate or not , and can only rate it for it's entertainment value as well as its technical merit . overall , the film was well made , with a good eye for detail of the era , and it had a very authentic feel about it . it was well paced with crisp dialogue and for a drama it was better done than many films of the genre . it was at times engaging , yet not quite riveting . the only other complaint i have is that it could have had more substance and been a bit more in-depth . otherwise , i enjoyed it .
lite mindless , entertaining fare	i didn't mind this movie . it's pretty lite fare , but enjoyable . the movie is based on a novel by Clive Cussler and centers around thrill seeking adventurer Dirk Pitt ( Matthew McConaughey ) and his travelling companion ( Steve Zahn ) . the duo find themselves in over their heads and trying to avoid being killed by enemies they have made on their latest treasure hunt . they end up teaming with a humanitarian aid doctor , played by Penelope cruse . McConaughey and Zahn make a good pair , and work well off each other . they each have some funny lines . cruse was OK , though i am not a fan of hers . the movie is fast paced and has some thrills . it's funny at times , but it is also unrealistic to the point of absurdity . my eyes got a workout from rolling back in my head so much . also the movie feels incomplete somehow . there was great potential and i think they could have made a great movie . nevertheless , for mindless entertainment , you could do worse . for me , Sahara is a
one of the more entertaining teen / horror spoofs	my personal feeling is that this movie is better than any of the Scary Movie Films . i found it more relevant and clever . it is better paced , with no real spots that lag . the jokes do fly literally about every few seconds . i woudn't say it is funny , but there are some very amusing moments . i particularly liked the end stages of the film . to me , this film is lighter in tone than the Scary Movie franchise . it's also not as gross . the violence is also less graphic , and the language is much tamer . there is very little in the way of nudity , and most of the sexual situations are implied . the movie is rated R , but i'm not sure why . after watching it , i thought it would be PG-1 , at most . i checked the rating after watching , and i'm really surprised . from my viewpoint , i think this movie would be suitable for most kids 13 or older , but parents should use their discretion , of course . either way , i thought this movie was pretty entertaining all the way through . it's no masterpiece , but i give this movie a
from the people who brought you The F . B . I . Files	from the same people who brought you The F . B . I . Files comes this series about the high tech aspects of solving crime ( such as the use of DNA and fingerprinting ) as well as forensic anthropology and psychological profiling . for me , this series is much slower than the F . BI . Files and less interesting . it is much more dramatic , with less action . and i found it much darker in tone than the F : B : I : Files . it gets more in depth into the science of crime detection , and less on the crime itself . i found this aspect a bit dry at times . still , it is well made and at times compelling . certainly if you're into the scientific aspect of crime and crime solving , you should check this series out . in North America , seasons 1 & 2 are available as one collection . for me , The Detectives is a
good sequel	this sequel to the original movie was a bit better , i thought . the story was more interesting , and there were more funny moments . there is less action than the first one , but that didn't make much difference to me . the same characters are back . ( Nash Crawford ) Walter Brennan , ( Jason Fitch ) Edgar Buchanan , Amos Polk ( Andy Devine ) and Gentleman George Agnew ( Chill Wills ) are all in good form here , but it is the addition of Fred Astaire which makes the movie . Astaire steals the show , in my opinion . like the first movie , this one is a lot of fun , and suitable for most family members , probably anyone 10 or older . for me , The Over the Hill Gang Rides Again is a
John Carpenter's third film	while i admit there is lots of tension in this movie , it's almost too much . the problem i found is that ( to me at least ) the movie keeps building to a climax which is less exciting than the rest of the movie . there is one pretty thrilling moment in the movie , but for me , that's about it . this is by no means a bad movie . in fact , think it was very well done and the acting is top rate . i just felt it was too drawn out . this is John carpenter's third picture , and was intended for the big screen at one point . but somewhere along the line , it was decided to make it into a TV movie . it's not overly violent and certainly not very graphic . even though i thought the movie was drawn out , it was still entertaining enough o watch until the end . if you don't mind a really slow build up , you will probably enjoy this one . by the way , this movie also available as part of the Twisted Terror collection , which also includes five other horror movies . anyway , for me , Someone's Watching Me is a
a bit funnier than Are We There yet ?	i thought this sequel to Are We There Yet was pretty good . it's a bit funnier . it's based on the classic movie Mr . Blandings builds his dream House , but it also has a lot of the Money Pit thrown in . John C . McGinley is very funny in his role . i don't want to say what that role is , because that would be spoiling things . but trust me , he's pretty funny . as with the first movie , this one is predictable , so there's no surprise how it will end . there's a bit of innuendo here , but no bad language . i'm surprised at the low rating ( ) which in my mind is nowhere near fair . for me , this is a movie that is pretty much good for the whole family . i give Are We Done Yet ? a
zombie free for all !	this is one of the gorier zombie flicks i have seen in a while . it takes awhile to get to that point , though . once it does , it basically becomes barely controlled chaos , mayhem and carnage . this is not a big budget movie by any stretch , but i think it's played as camp , more than anything , so the low budget doesn't really matter . there are some very funny scenes , which i think are intentional . the movie is never boring . it's even fun at times . the acting won't win any awards , but basically , it's just a zombie free for all , so there isn't really a lot of acting required . if you can get around the absurd premise , and if you're a gore hound , this could be the movie for you . for me , even though i enjoyed it , there were some moments that were a bit too sick for me . as a result , i would have to give Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Plane a
campy but funny at times . probably won't leave much of an impact after watching though	i suppose you could say this movie is the low point in the franchise . i mean , while watching the movie i kept thinking it was basically a two hour movie of the 1960's camp classic classic with Adam west and Burt Ward . i found it hard to take the movie very seriously , considering there were so many one liners , most of them corny , but some quite funny . also the movie was very special effects laden , to say the least . the characters all seemed to be just parodies of themselves . George Clooney Donned the cape for this incarnation , and i have to agree with another reviewer who said he seemed to be playing George Clooney . i don't think he had quit the right look for Batman , but then again , neither did the movie . there were some good things about the movie . Uma Thurman was one , in the role of villainess Poison Ivy . she looked great and i loved her accent . i found it strangely seductive . Alicia Silverstone Played BatGirl . she looked good in her skintight outfit . she's cute too . Chris O'Donnell returns as Robin , and once again , i really loved the look of his suit at the beginning , not so much the one he had later in the film . i didn't like Batman's costume too much at all . i thought it just looked silly . oh , yeah , Arnie was in this one and received top billing as the evil genius Mr Freeze . basically he just fired his gun at everything and everyone and froze whatever was in his way . they even imagined to make arkham asylum look non foreboding . this whole new look Batman may have been the point to the movie . maybe it was all deliberate , but i think if that's the case , the experiment backfired . people hated this movie . i didn't hate it . i found it entertaining but very light as far as Batman goes . guess i would give it a just for entertainment value .
Mel Gibson and Danny Glover team up	i thought this movie was not bad . it teams Mel Gibson and Danny Glover together as two cops who couldn't be more different , and end up partnering with each other . both hate having partners . Martin Riggs ( Gibson ) is a loose cannon who likes to bend the roles , and who just might be suicidal and / or homicidal . Roger Murtaugh is older , more conservative , and likes to do things by the book . i wouldn't say the movie is action packed , but it does seem to move at a fairly decent pace . i wouldn't say it's that funny , either , although it is classified as an action / comedy . still , i've seen a lot worse in the genre . Gary Busey has a nice turn as a bad guy . when all is said and done , Lethal weapon is a
Nowhere near as good as it reputation ( but entertaining , nonetheless )	well , i finally got around to watching Martin Scorsese's " Casino " tyhis one has some big names , but to be honest the only standout performance was by Sharon Stone " she runs the gamut of emotions in this one . i won't give any of it away , however . The rest of the actors are okay in their respective roles . Joe Pesci makes sure everyone knows he can skillfully add the f-word into nearly every sentence at least once . that is a dubious distinction and not really an impressive one . after awhile , it just gets annoying . credit that to Nicholas Pileggi , who wrote the script and co-wrote the screenplay ( with Scorsese ) , based on his novel . anyway , considering how much this movie has been praised over the years , i expected something approaching spectacular . it is not spectacular , in any sense of the word . it is a good movie that is entertaining and well paced , given its nearly 3 hour running time . but a disappointment if you are expecting a movie that will knock your socks off and remain with you for days . i just watched it , and it's already fading from memory . keep your expectations low for this one , and you won't be too disappointed .
fairly decent horror / suspense	the last time i watched this movie , i didn't care for it at all . this time , however , i actually didn't think it was too bad . it's kind of slow at times , and a bit drawn out . i think they also reveal too much , leaving less to the imagination . i also think Carol Kane seems too old to be the teenage babysitter , but that's just me . she is not a bad actress , she just doesn't do it for me in this movie . having said all that , the movie is suspenseful , with very good music and a very eerie tone to it . i actually enjoyed it for the most part . if you watch this movie and enjoy it , you might also like the sequel " when a Stranger Calls Back , which i thought was a better movie . you might also like " black Christmas " , which is very similar , but actually came out in 1974 , 5 years before " When a Stanger Calls " . i'd also recommend the recent remake of " . . . Stranger . . . " , which i also thought was a better movie . As for this movie . i think it deserves a strong
effective and entertaining black comedy	" Paint Job " is a wry , black comedy about a painter who pursues his boss's wife . his boss as it turns out is a serial killer in their small town . this movie is amusing at times , always entertaining and always bizarre the film is populated with an assortment of quirky ( to say the least ) characters . in fact there is no one in the film who can be described as normal . Wil Patton is Wesley , the painter who falls for his boss's wife . Bebe Neuwirth plays the wife , and Robert Pastorelli plays the boss / serial killer . the movie is subtle in its humour , more ironic than anything , and absurd at times . i particularly liked Neuwirth's performance as the somewhat dim wife , although all the performances were good . i did not have any expectations going in , so was pleasantly surprised at how effective and entertaining the film was . if you expect to be rolling around in hysterics , look elsewhere . otherwise , prepare to be amused and entertained . a strong
entertaining , though typical Seagal fare	this is typical Steven Seagal fare . it's really just an excuse for Seagal to show how good he is in beating people up . there is , naturally , a great deal of action , and lots of fight scenes . problem is , the fight scenes are nothing we haven't seen before . there are a lot of fancy camera tricks , but so what ? there are two added element , one of which is an environmental storyline . the other is the casting of Michael Cane as the main bad guy . if nothing else , Caine adds some class to the proceedings . the cast also includes Joan Chen , R . Lee Emery , and Billy Bob Thornton . so at least it has some decent actors . Caine in particular impressed me . it thought he made a pretty convincing bad guy . Seagal also attempts to act here , but really most people watch a Seagal flick to see him beat up other people , sometimes more than one a at time , and come out with barley a mark on him . if you're a Seagal fan , you'll probably like this entry . it's nothing new , really . despite it's problems , though , i did find it entertaining . for me on Deadly ground is a
the second film in John Ford's Cavalry " trilogy "	i was a bit disappointed in this movie . for me , it is not as good as Fort Apache , the first film in John Ford's Cavalry " trilogy " . i still liked it , but i thought it was a bit slow at times , and it doesn't have a lot of action . plus , i would have preferred if John Wayne's character Captain Nathan Brittles had more of a conflict with another officer , like his character in Fort Apache . there , his character had a conflict with Henry Fonda's character , a superior officer . that sort of added another dimension to the movie . this movie lacked the comic bits of Apache , which disappointed me a bit . it is a much more serious movie , to be sure . still , this isn't a bad movie and it is in colour . my vote for She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is a
works well for what it is	A while back , i did review of Evil Dead 2 , which called absolute garbage . well , i stand by that review . however , it is only fair to give a review of its predecessor , so here goes . " Evil Dead " is a pretty decent movie , offering up some genuine chills . one particularly effective scene involved one of the female characters and half of the woods come to life . the acting was decent . with no hammy overacting which is what plague its successor . there was not much comedy in this movie . it was played pretty straight , and was effective for the most part . the plot was pretty straight forward although bizarre to say the least . the demons were quite revolting . this was a low budget movie , but that did not detract from the overall feel . creepy , to be sure . i think this movie was effective because it didn't try to be something it was not . it is not a masterpiece , nor does it try to be one . i enjoyed it a quite a bit .
not spectacular , but entertaining	this Stephen King adaptation was entertaining but not great , by any means . it's worthwhile to pass time . it''s probably as weird as any of the King adaptation i have , and even weirder than others . this movie sort of felt like a fairy tale to me . although not a kid's fable , obviously . i did like the cast , many of whom have gone on to other things , since then . Brian Krause also appeared in the TV show Charmed , Madchen Amick ( who could be Kim Delaney's twin sister ) has been in several smaller budget pictures . Alice Krige was seen most notably as the Borg Queen in Star Trek : First Contact , while Ron Perlman was previously seen in The TV series beauty and the Beast . his most notable role ( In my opinion ) was in Hellboy as the title character . like in most King movies , king himself appears in a cameo . at least three other modern horror masters ( Jon Landis , Joe Dante , and Clive Barker also have cameos . anyway if you wanna pass 90 minutes or so , i'd say this movie is worth it . for me , Sleepwalkers is a
a decent sword and sorcery / fantasy film	while this is not the best film of the sword and sorcery / fantasy genre , i did like it . i found it fast paced , and never boring . yet strangely , i never really found it exciting either . and there were some things about it i found absurd . many people will find the special effects quite quaint by today's standards , and i guess they are , although that didn't really bother me in this movie . i really liked the look of the film . i do think the that the story was a bit weak , and they could have added to it . the movie felt a bit incomplete at the end , in my mind . i did find the ending anti climatic . i found the acting to be understated , but good from all concerned . there have been a lot of similar movies since then ( and some before then ) some better , some worse . for me , this movie falls closer to the better category . the movie on the whole actually reminded me a lot of the 1938 version of Robin Hood , and i mean that in a good way . when you add it all up , i think Krull is about a
decent thriller	although this is a fairly decent psychological suspense thriller , it is predictable at times and a bit of reach in some scenes . still , anyone who's ever had a roommate who is even slightly unbalanced or worse can relate . Bridget Fonda is good as the normal roommate in the equation , but Jennifer Jason Leigh is perfectly cast as the roommate from hell . of course it helps if she has a character to work with . Steven Weber has a small roles as well . Peter Friedman and Stephen Tobolowsky also have small roles . the movie moves along pretty well most of the time but slows down occasionally , and nearly ruins the momentum at times . still , it's a good movie , as these movies go . for me , Single White female is a
two sisters learn to love each other and themselves	this is the story of two sisters who are polar opposites . Cameron Diaz is Maggie Feller , a free spirited loopy party girl with no life track . Toni Collette is rose , her older , wiser , Career oriented sister . the two clash about many things , especially Maggie's life style . They have a major blowout and Maggie Disappaers . Shirley Mac Laine Plays a prominent role in the movie , and is responsible for getting the sisters back together . of course before this happens both sisters must realize they need each other and learn other life lessons along the way . once reunited , they begin to understand each other and accept each other and themselves . another feel good , " lets all love one another " movie . preachy to be sure , but still entertaining . the life lessons the girls learn may be deep and profound but the movie itself is not . and it is certainly not original . this movie has been done ad infinitum and ad nauseum . but for a fluff piece , it is okay .
as these types of movies go , i've seen worse	you know , i didn't think this was all that bad , for this type of movie , ( man vs insect , nature , etc ) that is . i actually thought there were a few suspenseful moments . the acting wasn't horrible or anything . there are a lot of plot holes for sure , and as per usual in this type of movie , most of the characters are either stupid or do stupid things . the one thing i did like about this movie , compared to others of this genre , is that at least there was a character who was reprehensible and you could really hate . and you get the pleasure of seeing him eventually meet his much deserved end . i also thin the the reason for the ants killing people could be possible . it's at least in the realm of possibility . it's not very likely but you never know . i haven't seen all of the movies in this genre . but it's probably safe to say that none of them will be stellar in terms of quality and logic . still , i enjoyed this one for what it is , a mildly entertaining way to pass 90 minutes or so . i give " it Happened at Lakewood Manor " AKA " Ants "
not a bad sequel but way too long ( nearly 3 hours )	it's been a little while since i've seen this sequel to the 1984 original . however , i do remember that i really liked the girl who played the grown up version of Charlie . i thought she did well in the role . there's a lot more excitement in this one , i believe . it's much higher energy . again , the acting is serviceable , though the plot seems sillier than it did in the first movie . also , clocking in at nearly 3 hours running time is a real negative here . i think the story could have been told in much less time than that . they certainly could have shaved off an hour . but as sequels go ( other than the long running time ) this movie is not half bad . for me , Fire Starter 2 : Rekindled is a
weird	this is one odd movie , and i don't mean that in a bad way . it's basically about drifter ( Owen Wilson ) who's a serial killer . the difference is he poisons his victims . the interesting thing is , it's hard to pin down what his motive is . the movie might have explained it , but the movie is so subtle , it's hard to get everything . it may require repeat viewings to understand everything , and even then , you may not understand it all . if you like action in your movies , you might want to stay clear of this one . it tends to move slow , but to me , it was just compelling enough to keep watching . i won't say this is a bad movie ( especially since i have just seen " Dracula 3000 " , the worst movie ever made ) but it's not for everyone . for me The Minus Man is a
could have been better	this is the third movie i've watched today , and like the other two ( Bangkok Dangerous , and Traitor ) i find myself disappointed . this is the first CG animated full length Resident Evil film . i found the animation lacking . the character movements are jerky and the facial movements don't sync up with the body language . i also thought the story was lacking , and the action wasn't exactly stellar , in my mind . yet i was more entertained with this movie than either of Bangkok Dangerous or Traitor . i mean it is fairly fast paced . i just wish they could have had more of the characters from the previous Resident Evil films , and with the original voices . for me , Resident Evil : Degeneration is a
lots of blood in this one	this movie is about a psychopath who is executed by electric chair , but comes back to life . he leaves a trail of bodies in the hospital where he has been brought . this movie has a lot of kills , almost all of which are very bloody . but i didn't think any of the kills were any different than in most movies of this genre . the gut who played the psychopath was kinda creepy . the movie has some eerie moments , but nothing out of the ordinary , that i could see . if you are a gore hound , this might your movie . the movie is entertaining , but not really memorable . for me it doesn't have anything that stand out from other blood soaked flicks . the acting is okay for the genre . i give " Heart Stopper " based on all the blood .
decent comedy / musical	i thought this was a fun little musical / comedy . there's a number of song and and numbers , most of which i liked . it Stars Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire as friends , who are also rivals when it comes to women . there's some amusing banter between the two , and Astaire is quite a dancer . Crosby is the singer , and his voice is of course pure silk . there is one segment in the movie which which is offensive , and frankly in poor taste , and could be considered racist , but i don't think it was deliberately done in malice . this segment wouldn't be included in any modern movie , but unfortunately , they did things different back then . for me , that's the only black mark on the movie . otherwise , i thought it was good . for me , Holiday Inn is a
a bit of a letdown	considering the hype for this movie , i thought it would be better than it was . it wasn't a horrible movie , but i don't think it lived up to the Superman name . Brandon Routh as Superman , looked a lot like Christopher Reeve , maybe a bit too much . his mannerisms were also too much like Reeve , as if he were trying to emulate him , when instead he should have been trying to put his own stamp on the character . Kate Bosworth was okay as Loise lane , but Kevin Spacey was an inspired choice as Lex Luthor . i also liked Frank Langella as Perry White . however , i could have done without James Marsden as Richard White , especially since his role was so small it was pointless . the other problem i had with the movie is that it tended to lag at times , causing my attention to wander . this movie just didn't have the impact of a movie like spider man or even any of the x-men films . it just didn't have as much substance as it could have . if you've yet to see this movie , keep your expectations low and maybe you won't be overly disappointed .
second in The Shadow series of movies	this second movie in the Shadow series is no better or worst than the first one , in my opinion . Rod La Rocque is back as Lamont Cranston . however , in this one , Cranston plays a newspaper columnist , with a column called The Shadow Says and he hosts a short radio show running through the latest crime , as the voice of The Shadow . so if you're expecting Cranston to solve this case as The Shadow , or the Shadow to make an actual appearance you might be disappointed . in this movie Cranston solves another case , this time with the assistance of Phoebe Lane ( who works at the same newspaper ) who he meets while pondering the case . yes , i said Phoebe , not Margo . ( Margo Lane is Cranston's sidekick in the long running The Shadow radio program ) .
not as good as the original but still pretty decent	this sequel to 48 Hours has a much darker tone than the original . it's more violent , with probably even more very strong language . there is a bit less comedy , but the comic bits are a bit funnier than in the first one . the action is thorough the roof in this one . it's much more exciting . i liked the storyline more . it's more developed and a bit more complex . the plot isn't that original , but the movie is well executed . the movie is a bit too formulaic at times though . Eddie Murphy gets to show a little of his impression talent in this one . the dialogue , while pretty good for the most part , is at times overdone and a bit of a stretch . overall , i think this movie is pretty decent , but not quite as good as the first one . for me , Another 48 hours is a .
liked it , didn't love it	while i liked this movie , i didn't love it . it was entertaining , but not really very substantive . plus , while watching , i couldn't help but think i'd had seen the movie before , under a different title and with different actors . the name of said movie still escapes me . to be fair though , when you make a film centered around the subject of gambling , there's isn't too much you can do to distinguish one from another . i will say , though , that i thought Kevin Spacey was brilliant in his performance and Laurence Fishburne was equally good . Spacey and Fishburne owned the movie in their scenes . Kate Bosworth and Jim Sturgess were also in the movie , but were overshadowed by Spacey & & & possible minor spoilerSpacey and Fishburne are hardly really in the movie and i don't think he and i don't think they had any scenes together . i was mildly entertained , and never bored , but nothing beyond that . for me , 21 is a
similar to Mr . Holland's Opus , but not as good	this movie based on a true story Stars Meryl Streep as a music teacher who changes the lives of inner city students . it's in the same vein as Mr . Holland's Opus , but nowhere nears as good , in my mind . it lacks the depth and heart of that movie . it's also slow at times and those sweeping orchestral scores get to be too much after awhile . even though Streep is the headliner , i actually really liked Angela Basset . i though she was terrific . Aidan Quinn is also very good , in a small role . though i was disappointed in the movie , it still has it moments of inspiration , and is worth watching . it's just no masterpiece . it's directed by Wes Craven ( The Nightmare on Elm Street series ) . for me , Music of the Heart is a
pretty safe , harmless family fare	i think this is a fairly entertaining family movie . it's harmless fluff , really , and it can be a bit slow . but the characters are all likable , and it's suitable for kids of any age , except maybe really young kids . it might be a bit intense for them . and kids over 12 might find it boring . adults might not find it that entertaining . of course , it depends on your tastes . still , it's nice to watch a movie without any sex or violence once in awhile . with all the negative things kids are exposed to nowadays , this movie would probably be a welcome change of pace . just don't expect a lot of realism . and the story is pretty thin . but for safe , harmless viewing , you can't go really go too wrong with this movie . for me , Gentle Ben ( 2002 ) is a
ten times better than the alternate version ( " Dominion : Prequel to the Exorcist " )	this is a hard movie to rate . When compared to : " Dominion : Prequel to the Exorcist " , this is masterpiece . Let's start with the positive points . very stylish , visually more appealing . a fair bit of substance . much more suspenseful than " Dominion " . this piece was much more character driven . Merrin's , motives were more clearly defined and more plausible . there was much more action than " Dominion " . the characters were more believable and thus more sympathetic . The movie was also very atmospheric with an undercurrent of unease permeating it . the music was used to good effect , as well . this movie was not without its flaws , however . in fact it shares one failing with " Dominion " . that is , the poor cgi , in this case hyenas , and a sandstorm that did not look real . the Church looked like a miniature when shown in a long shot of the sand rolling over it . the demon at times looked cgi , not real in its movements , kind of jerky . the demon looked like a carbon copy of the one in the Original " The Exorcist " . whether this is intentional or not , I'm not sure . one scene in particular was very derivative of again the original , with the demon spouting blasphemous obscenities at the priest . in a way this kind of makes sense especially if this is the same demon that Merrrin is to meet years later . i did like the last scene showing Father Merrin walking away , wearing i believe the same garb he would wear years later , when battling the demon ( or a different demon ) again , a powerful scene . the only complaint i have within this scene is that it is clear the buildings are not actually there . either Stellann Skargard ( Merrin ) is walking in front of a green screen or the buildings have been painted in . this diminishes the impact the scene could have had . i also have to mention that the movie very gory at times , sometimes revolting in its use of maggots and such . however , i would have to say " Exorcist : The Beginning is watchable , even compelling at times . i sensed something could happen at any time and did not want to leave my seat until the movie concluded . a strong
entertaining made for TV movie	To have and to Hold has shades of Fatal Attraction , but is nowhere near as intense or complex . Justine Bateman Plays Meg , a woman who believes her husband , Tom ( Sebastian Spence ) is having an affair . he was , but has since broken it off . of course , the woman he was seeing cannot let it go , and keeps phoning or showing up where he is . this woman is not nearly as psycho as the psycho in Fatal Attraction . However her actions do lead to violence and murder . there are a few plot twists in this movie , but nothing that can't be figured out . Bateman and Spence are fine in the lead roles . this movie is a bit more morbid and depressing at times than many TV movies , but it still passes the time , and is not boring . To Have and to Hold gets
Santa Fe Trail	this isn't really a western , although it does take place during the same era which encompasses the genre . it's more of an action / adventure , with some drama and romance thrown . it takes place 6 or 7 years before the civil war , and details the events leading up to it , or at least this movie's version of it . it stars Errol Flynn , Ronald Reagan , Olivia de Havilland , and Van Heflin . here we meet George Custer , future general , but right now , newly graduated West Point military Academy Cadet . i thought his was quite a good movie . it flows very well , the acting is good , especially from Raymond Massey , who plays John Brown , a man who has fought against slavery , but has become an ego maniacal madman in the process . Massey's performance is brilliant . the movie does feel a bit long , but otherwise i liked it . for me , Santa Fe trail is a
decent time travel movie	this movie has a good premise . going back in time to change your present or future and the ramifications this could have . it's not an original premise , but it's 1 that hasn't been done to death yet . at least i don't think so . the movie has some good dramatic moments and some suspense , but i didn't really find it all that compelling . it is quite disturbing in some scenes . i think this is Ashton Kutcher " s first big starring dramatic role , and i didn't quite buy him in the role . he has improved since then , though , most notably in " The Guardian " also starring Kevin Costner . in the " The Butterfly Effect " he seems a bit over his head . Amy Smart is also in this movie , and is good as always . my vote for " The Butterfly Effect " :
small town hero becomes focus of mysterious stranger	A History of Violence is a rare foray into mainstream film for director David Cronenberg . it is a solid effort , with good performances all around . this is also change of pace from the roles Viggo Mortensen usually plays . story concerns small town family Tom Stall ( Mortensen ) who becomes local hero after killing 2 armed robbers at his diner . After all the publicity Tom is visited at his diner by a mysterious a stranger ( Ed Harris ) who insists that Tom is in fact someone else and that they know each other . Tom of course denies this . The stranger continues two follow both Tom and his wife ( Maria Bello ) and questions arise as to who Tom really is . The movie is not boring by any means , but it is not overly compelling either . it gives us just enough information to hold our interest . I liked the scenes of violence . they were very vivid and authentic . There is no character development in this movie , out of necessity to the plot line , so this does not hinder the movie . Maria Bello is effective as the wife , but her role is so small and she is given very little to do . had she been given more to do this movie may have been better . i did not like the ending at all . i thought they could have explained e few things . if it weren't for these two issues , i would have given it a higher rating . as it is this movie gets a
a decent enough 91 minute time killer	this was not what i would term a great movie , but it isn't that bad either . it's a psychological thriller / horror . it's not really very fast paced , but it does build some suspense and atmosphere . i liked that aspect of it . but there are some scenes later on in the film ( probably at least halfway through ) that are absolutely disgusting . at least i thought so . for me , theses scenes showed more than was necessary . if you're a gore hound , these scenes won't likely bother you . if you have a weak stomach , you'll have to turn away when these scenes appear . i don't have a weak stomach , but i was unprepared for how graphic the movie became . aside from the that , i think the movie is fairly original . it does borrow a concept from a horror / Sci-Fi movie of quite a long time ago , but as far as i know this particular scenario hadn't been done by any film in recent history , although i could be wrong . also , i think it could be similar to 2006's Turistas , though i haven't seen that movie yet . i think i will though to see if there are any similarities . for me , this was an OK 91 minute diversion , which i don't regret . i give The Ruins a
pretty good , but a bit slow and long	this movie has a lot of good things going for it . one of them is the great ensemble cast . this includes Al Pacino and Cameron Diaz as the marquee names . however , i don't think they were the stars of the show . that distinction is shared with the supporting cast . there are some big names here . Jamie Foxx and Dennis Quaid are both terrific . LL Cool J also puts in a strong performance . James Woods give his usual good performance . in smaller roles , but no less effective , are Matthew Modine , Aaron Eckhart and John C . McGinley . Lauren Holley , though , puts in a very strong performance and really impressed me . the movie also has a high degree of realism during the scenes on the football field . you can hear every bone crunching hit wit astounding clarity . and there is a high energy atmosphere for the most part . there are some down sides to the movie , though . one of these is the running time , at over two and a half hours . i felt they could have shaved off maybe twenty minutes . also i felt that the movie doesn't always follow through with the momentum it builds . it gets a bit tedious at times . finally , the scenes with Cameron Diaz and Al Pacino together . i felt Pacino tended to overact a bit , and Diaz seemed a bit out of her depth . Diaz was pretty good otherwise . anyway , for me , Any Given Sunday is a
Lee Van Cleef , Lionel Stander , Antonio Sabato , BUd Spencer , Gordon Mitchell .	this spaghetti western is not too bad . i though the story was interesting , and there are some good performances . Lee Van Cleef is the main star , and is quite good here . but he is overshadowed by a few others . Antonio Sabato ( father of pseudo-actor Atonio Sabato Jr . ) for one puts in a terrific performance , as does Lionel Stander ( 80'S TV show Hart to Hart . i also liked Bud Spencer ( who acted in numerous spaghetti Westerns ) though i wish his role had been bigger . but the real standout , in my mind , is Gordon Mitchell , for his " ice water in his veins ' portrayal of Burton . the big negative for me though is the length of the film . i feel it is at least 30 minutes too long , and it moves fairly slow at times . but the performances overcome that weakness . for me , Beyond The Law ( 1968 ) is a
throws believability way out the window	wow . if you like relentless fast and furious action and stunts that completely throw any semblance of believability out the window , this is your movie . if you're really good at suspending your disbelief , you ' ll probably like this movie . personally , think there's only so much the human mind can accept , and for me , this movie far exceeds that limit . as in another movie i reviewed , it would have been better if the characters were all dressed in matching red capes and blue underwear . i also think more bullets were used in this movie than were actually even made . again , that's not to say that this is a bad movie . it's just that it could have been so much better . after awhile , when moviegoers are bombarded by wall to wall action and stunts that defy reality , they become desensitized and are no longer impressed with such things . people are smarter than filmmakers and studios think they are . anyway , i give " The replacement Killers " a
very creepy " people come back from the dead " tale	the movie Pet Semetary is a pleasant surprise . it is much better than i had hoped for . after all , Stepthen King adaptations seem to be hit and miss . the story is quite a creepy concept , though it is not so much about the pet semetary , but an ancient MicMac burial ground which is said to bring back from the dead those who are buried there . problem is , they don't come back quite the same . of course you just know that someone will bury a loved one there , which is when things start to get creepier . Fred Gwynne is very well cast as the slightly odd ( elderly ) neighbor of the Creed family , who have just moved in next door . the one slight problem i found was that Denise Crosby was almost a bit of a weak link in this story . She seemed out of her depth . otherwise , a very entertaining , creepy tale , to say the least . certainly worth watching . out of 10
a good movie that had the potential for greatness	i was very disappointed in king kong . i thought it would be better than it was it . takes to long to get to the action , focusing much too long on the romance between two of the main characters . there were some exciting moments to be sure , but there was also a lot of repetition . sometimes the action went much longer than it should have . this film had some humour injected into it , which the original did not have . however , the humor is misplaced in this film , and just doesn't work . it almost seems like a time filler and very contrived , and slows the movie down . there are also some whimsical moments in the film , which take away from kong's dignity and majesty , making him not quiet wimpy , but less of a force to be reckoned with . on the plus side , the ape is very realistic looking , including the hair and eyes , which are very hard to make natural using cgi . however , the ape's movements are sometimes herky jerky , showing cgi still has a few bugs to work out . that's not to say this is a bad film . it's not . it's just not as good as it could have been . It is too long , and could have benefited from some editing . and it could have been paced better . i have to give this film a rating
very campy ( but in a good way )	this is not what you would term a horror movie . it's basically a black comedy , and i found it pretty effective as such . it doesn't take itself seriously at all , which is why i think it works . it's outrageously over the top at times , and there are some very good lines in this movie . the acting is not what i would call great , but it works with the film . as long as you approach it being tongue in cheek , and enjoy the campiness you should have fun with it . if you take it seriously , you probably won't like it . i enjoyed this movie more than the two previous installments , but that's just me . my vote for Prom Night III : The Last Kiss is a
probably more offensive than the first one , and nowhere near as funny	this sequel to the first Harold and Kumar has some funny moments , but i didn't think it was anywhere near as funny as the first . the good news is that the laughs are full belly laughs , that will leave you crying . the bad news : there aren't very many of them . however , i did find that the story was better and more fleshed out . Rob Corddry is hysterical in his scenes . well most of them anyway . one thing i didn't care for is that there's a scenes which shifts the tone away fro the comedy . i found this inexplicable and also unnecessary . this movie is at least as offensive as the first one , probably more so . if the first one offended you , you'll want to avoid this one . for me , Harold and Kumar 2 is a
it almost worked for me ( but not quite )	i was kinda disappointed by this movie . it wasn't a horrible movie . i just thought they could have done more with it . it's sort of a romantic comedy , but really more of a tennis movie . the tennis scenes are one of the strong points of the movie . they looked real to me . i believed that the actors could be tennis players . the romance aspect was not bad . i thought the two leads ( Kirsten Dunst , Paulbettany ) had some chemistry . but i just felt there was something missing . i'm not sure what it was . all i can say is this movie didn't quite do it for me . it was certainly watchable and not boring , but not quite compelling either . having said that i give " Wimbledon " a
not the best movie i've ever seen , and not the worst	i didn't mind this movie . it's not the best movie i've ever seen , and it certainly isn't the worst . it's basically about post apocalyptic world after comet has destroyed much of the earth . most of the movie takes place after the comet has struck , so there are no big budget special effects for the disaster itself . i thought the filmmakers did a good job showing what the world might look like after much of it is decimated . there is more drama than anything in this movie , but i thought it was done well . i didn't get bored . i thought the acting was good enough , and there was a bit of action . i don't think the movie was original , but so what . most of the stuff churned out nowadays isn't . in my opinion , " Post Impact " is a .
much better than McHale's navy	i bought both this movie and McHale's Navy cheap at the same time . i thought McHale's navy was pretty much a disaster . it's supposed to be funny , but i didn't think so . Down Periscope is in a similar vein , but is actually fairly funny at times . it's not great , but i did laugh on occasion . Kelsey Grammar is the main star . Lauren Holly , Bruce Dern , William H . Macy , Harland Williams , and Rip Torn also star , among others . even Rob Schneider has a role , but he is actually funny here . of course , he isn't the main character so that helps . along with some laughs , there's also a bit of action and excitement . in the end the movie turns out pretty decent . my vote for Down Periscope is a
better than Patriot Games , but still pretty slow and boring	while i don't think this is a great movie , i do think it is better than the the last one , Jack Ryan film , Patriot Games . in Clear and Present Danger , Harrison Ford once again plays Jack Ryan . this one has a bit more intrigue than Patriot Games , and i also like the story more . it is more developed . to me , this one has a bigger scope . there is bit more urgency as well . having said that , i still think this movie is boring and slow , more often than not . Like Patriot Games , it's certainly not awful , but again i think maybe something got lost in the translation from Tom Clancy's novel . it's also almost 2 and a half hours long , and i think they could have trimmed some of it . still , it has it's good moments . for me , Clear and Present Danger is a
rich man rents a family to spend Christmas with	i know it's not Christmas season , but i thought i'd watch this movie anyway . i didn't really have any expectations going in , so imagine my surprise when this turns out to be a watchable movie . it's not really very funny , but it has some amusing moments and it's not boring . i guess this was supposed to be a Ben Affleck vehicle , but i thought James Gandolfini and Catherine O'Hara had the more interesting characters and added more to the movie than Affleck did . Affleck does okay here , but he really has less to do than Gandolfini and O'Hara . Christina Applegate has a small role in the movie . this is a movie that satisfies you for 90 minutes , and then is quickly forgotten soon after . for me , " Surviving Christmas " is watchable and entertaining . as a result , i'll give it a
better than the first movie	in my mind this sequel is better than the first movie . i thought it was funnier , and much better paced . it's shorter , but there's more packed into it . the story is better . Tom Conway and Don Knotts reprise their roles from the first one . unfortunately Bill Bixby does not return . on the plus side , there is more comic mayhem in this one and more action in general . once again , the movie is family friendly . again , if you have nothing else to do on a lazy Sunday , you could do worse than this movie . like the first one , it's no masterpiece , and it's not supposed to be one . it is however an improvement . for me , The Apple Dumpling Gang is a
had to knock off a point for this one ( read on to find out why )	to me , this sequel is way better than the original . it's much funnier , though it is still as raunchy , maybe more so . it could be offensive to some . spoiler aheadthere's even a scene of bestiality , as much as they could show about 70 minutes in , lasting about 7 minutesend of spoiler . that was a bit too disturbing for me , and i don't think there was really any call for it . but besides that unfortunate aspect , the movie is pretty good . there's actually a real story here this time , and i really cared about the characters . i thought the ending was good too . not your conventional ending . then again , this isn't a conventional movie . normally , this movie would be a 7 , but i have to knock a point off for the bestiality scone . therefore , Clerks II is a
sequel to Going my Way	this is the sequel and more famous cousin to Going my Way . Bing Crosby reprises his role of Father O'Malley . Ingrid Bergman co-stars . this movie is much deeper than it's predecessor , and has a much better , stronger story . Crosby and Bergman are both brilliant here . the story has some very touching moments . i welled up a few times . there are strong themes of hope and faith and miracles here , and the human spirit . wheres there are a quite a few lighter , comedic moments in Going my Way , there aren't that many here . it's much more serious in tone . i don't know if Bergman and / or Crosby won academy awards for their portrayals , but they give award worthy performance . the movie does feel a bit long and there are some slow moments , but overall , i liked it . i give The Bells of St . Mary's a
educational and fun for the kids , entertaining enough for the adults	this is a short animated film dealing of course , with the furious five , from original Kung Fu Panda movie . i thought it was OK . it has some great lessons for kids , and it's kinda cute , especially the bunnies . minor spoilerit's really a bunch of mini stories about the past of each of the furious five , in which each one learned a very important virtue . each member gets around five or six minutes each . end of spoiler . anyway , this little short is fun and easy to watch for the kids , and entertaining enough for the grownups . they got quite a bit of info into the short running time , and none of the characters gets short changed in terms of screen time and story . for me , Kung Fu Panda : Secrets of the Furious Five is a
almost comparable to the original	is The Rage : Carrie 2 a worth successor to the original Carrie ? hard to say . it has its moments , or rather " moment " . the problem is , that moment does not occur until the end of the movie . much of the movie comes off looking like your typical teen movie . by that i mean it has all the stereotypical caricatures you expect in a teen movie . which is great , unless you are expecting something more . the acting is okay , given the dialogue . however , there is no suspense in this film and the music does not compare to the original . the plot follows the original Carrie somewhat , although there is less of a relationship between the awkward outcast and her mother , in fact almost none . there is however , one little twist to the story , which i liked . the outcast this time is named Rachel . however unlike Carrie , Rachel is not some much taunted by her classmates as she is shunned , as if she doesn't exist . it is not until later in the film , through a series of events , which i won't go into here , that Rachel becomes the target of cruel abuse and ridicule . what Rachel goes through is pretty mean , but is it comparable what Carrie endured ? the answer is no . in the original it is strongly implied that Carrie was a victim through much of her life . Rachel , on the other hand is largely simply ignored for much of her life . for a brief moment in time , Rachel becomes a victim of a cruel prank . Rachel of course also has the ability to move objects with her mind . she exacts revenge on her tormentors in a spectacular fashion . there are some gruesome scenes here , lowering this film to a slasher flick towards the end . however , the ending of this movie is not anti climatic , as was the original . instead it almost suffers from overkill . but is it as good as or comparable to the original ? almost . out of 10
American president starts cold war with Canada to boost popularity ratings	this movie started out good . the premise is funny and original . there are some very funny scenes . but about halfway through it loses steam . maybe it's because the novelty wore off and the jokes were no longer funny . Michael Moore directed this film and has a good cast to work with , including Alan Alda , Kevin Pollak , Rhea Perlman , Rip Torn and the late , great John Candy . the movie should have worked , and it does for awhile , like i said . i lost interest about halfway through , and by the time it was over , i was paying pretty much no attention to it . as a result , and based on the original premise and funny 1st half , the most i can give " Canadian Bacon " is .
another " end of the world " movie , but nothing new or compelling .	ho-hum . another one of those " all signs point to the end of the world movies " . as these types of movie go , this film is much too lacking in substance to be compelling viewing . think " the Omen " ( the original ) lite . very lite . there are a few variations on the theme , true , but the movie fails to make a lasting impression ( or any impression ) the actors put in good performances , and bear no responsibility for the film's failure . credit that to the lacklustre script which is simply has no depth . as well as the direction , which , ironically has no direction . the original The Omen , set the Standard for this genre and has yet to be nor will likely ever be surpassed . as for the Seventh Sign , it is a good diversion , but will quickly be forgotten after viewing . a good rule of thumb about this type of movie is that it should stick with and make you question things . this movie does neither .
time travel via strait jacket ?	The jacket is essentially about a gulf war vet who has amnesia . he is brought to an institution , where his treatment consists of him being put in a strait jacket and locked in a morgue drawer as part of some bizarre experiment by the doctor . the catch is , that while bound in the strait jacket , he travel through time . i'll leave it at that plot wise . i liked this movie for the most part , although it is depressing at times . the concept is unique , not so much the time travel aspect , but the method of travel . the movie is very dialogue focused , so there is not a lot of action . if you like lots of action , this might not be you thing . Adrian Brody plays jack Stark , the gulf war vet , Kiera Knightly ( naked ) plays the love interest . Jennifer Jason Leigh and Kris Kristfferson also star in the movie . the acting is as good as most films . the movie is like i said , depressing at times , so i found it hard to watch , but it is thought provoking . overall , this is probably a better than average movie .
fairly intelligent political thriller	this political thriller isn't too bad . it's not really fast paced paced , and there is some predictability to it . but it should have enough twists and turns to keep you guessing . it's also a fairly intelligent movie . it's also compelling enough to maintain interest . at least i thought so . i also found it more stylish than many movies of the genre . Wesley Snipes is the main star , but there are some other well known actors here . these include Anne Archer , Maury Chakin , Donald Sutherland , Michael Bien , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and James Hong . for this type of movie , this one is not as over the top with ridiculous action scenes . though it does have a few scenes with strain believability a bit . for me , The Art of War is a
ang lee's thoughtful , touching , dramatic take on the hulk	the first time i watched ang lee's hulk , i didn't like it that much . i found it boring and it took way to long to get to the action scenes . then , a few year later , i decide to give it another chance . boy , i'm glad i did . this time around , i enjoyed the movie . going into the movie the first time , the only thing i was expecting was action . this time i had a much more open mind . as i watched the dramatic scenes , i realized how skillful ang lee is at directing people and getting strong emotional performances out of them . i got very involved in the interaction of the characters and i was much more interested in their fates . by focusing on character development in the beginning of the film , we are much more sympathetic to the characters later on in the film . the action scenes are exciting to watch , but at times do not quite look realistic . a lot of the times hulk's action look cartoons and his movements are very jerky at times . also , the detail is not quite real , in particular the eyes , which did not look natural . granted this was 3 years ago and the technology had not been perfected . it may have looked better today . however , there were more reasons to like this movie than not . there is certainly chemistry between the two main characters bruce banner and betty ross , ex girlfriend but still friend to bruce . there are also some very convincing and touching moments between betty and hulk . sam elliot plays betty's father an army general who believes hulk could be an invaluable military weapon , but is also sympathetic to his daughters ' feelings and wishes . and josh lucas plays talbot a man who thinks only of himself and his career and seeks to exploit hulk . lucas was very convincing as a real a # $ ! hole . summing up , this was a fairly well-made movie , with well developed characters and good performances . a little lacking in the realism dept ( i . e . cgi effects ) . otherwise no major problems out of 10
check out Primal Fear by the same director	i think this was billed as a legal thriller . trouble is , it's not really thrilling . it sort of plods along to the inevitable end . plus , in my opinion , Anthony Hopkins ( the bad guy ) , appears to be doing a lighter variation of Hannibal Lector . i also felt Ryan Gosling , as the main good guy , was a bit too young for the character he portrayed . but there are some bright spots in the movie . one of them is David Strathairn , who i feel is a very underrated actor and not utilized enough . and i thought the ending was a refreshing change from most movies of the genre . anyway , the movie wasn't boring enough to quit watching , but before the end credits had rolled , i had only become half interested . Gregory Hoblit directed this movie , and he also directed Primal Fear , which in my mind is a much superior thriller . you might want to check it out . as for Fracture , i give it a
a revenge drama more than anything ,	and i do mean drama . this is not an action packed movie . the emphasis is definitely on the drama . it's all about the trouble a man goes to to get revenge on a guy who killed his wife . it takes quite awhile to get there , and when it does , it's almost not worth it , at least in my opinion . i don't mind if a movie takes awhile to get to the payoff , except in this movie , there isn't really a payoff . i sorta wondered to myself if it was worth all the trouble the guy went through . but the movie is at least watchable . plus , there is a bit of character development and there's some pretty good acting . plus , it's not as if the movie is drop dead boring or anything . i just expected more . if you're an action junkie , you should look elsewhere for your fix . you won't find it here . when all is said and done , i think The Escapist is worth a .
entertaining and amusing , though not insanely funny baseball movie	i thought this was a pretty good movie . it wasn't insanely funny or anything , but it had some amusing moments and was certainly entertaining . what i liked about this movie is is the fact that , although it's an underdog story , it is not preachy and schmaltzy . there's very little rah , rah , rah , everyone's a winner clap trap . it just goes to show that a movie can tell an under dog story , without hitting you over the head with it , and making you nauseous . i also liked the unique mix of characters in the movie , with all their quirks . they are really an oddball assortment . i'm not really a baseball fan , but i liked the movie just as a movie , and not so much as a baseball movie . for me , Major League " is a
well , that was weird	Lady in the Water is the latest movie from M . Night Shyamalan , and it is a weird one . i could make little sense of it , and there seemed to be some gaping plot holes . to me , it seemed to be a philosophy lesson at times , which is good if you want a philosophy lesson , but i didn't . add to that , to me there was a lot of overacting going on . the movie just didn't make a lot of sense . Shyamalan says this is a fairy tale ( which he apparently created ) he used to tell his children went hey were young . for a young child , this would probably be entertaining , and some adults might enjoy it . normally i watch a movie to be entertained , and don't worry about plot holes or gaps in logic . but for me , there were just too many to overlook . Not a horrible movie , by any means but not as good as it could have been .
may big names stars of Westerns ( and other genres ) past	this is a pretty decent western with some good comic moments . it features many famous names of the genre , such as Walter Brennan , Jack Elam , Edgar Buchanan , Gypsy Lee Rose , Pat O'Brien and Ricky Nelson . all had previously been in earlier westerns and here were in the twilight of their careers . i won't give away the plot , but the title certainly fits the movie and the characters . the actors themselves aren't over the hill , even though their characters may be . in fact , they all put in good performances , though Jack Elam was the best of the bunch , in my mind . one thing about the movie i should mention is that it actually felt more like a TV episode than a movie . the version i watched was only 70 minutes . still , it is an entertaining diversion . for me , The Over the Hill Gang is a
poor ending lowers the rating on this movie	part philosophy , alternate reality , God . human existence . this movie seems to ask a lot of questions . it is compelling for most of it's running time , although it i found it quite deep , with very little action . I also thought George Clooney took awhile to grow into his character . at 1st , i didn't find him convincing in his role , but somehow that changed throughout the course of the movie . the problem i found with this movie is that it for much of the time it is a deep , thought provoking movie . I don't believe in some of the views put forth , but nevertheless , the movie was engaging . however it drew me in , and then the ending was a cop out , too neatly tied up , and not at all realistic . i don't mind watching a ' pure , shut of your brain ' action movie , because i no what i am getting . so if a movie stars out compelling and engaging i expect it to end appropriately . in my view , this movie does not do so . i would have given it , but because of the ending i am deducting 2 stars . as a result , my vote for " Solaris " is / 10
decent science fiction thriller	i thought this was an entertaining movie . it wasn't spectacular , by any means , but i've seen way worse . Drew Barrymore shows some acting ability at a young age . i think she was around 8 when this was made . the rest of the acting was decent enough for the most part . i did think that George C . Scott seemed out of place , though . the story itself was interesting and there were some moments of suspense . whether it was as good as Stephen King's novel , i can't say , since i haven't read the novel . the effects were pretty good for that time . the movie is one hour and 55 minutes and it could have been shorter by about 20 minutes or so , in my opinion . but if nothing else , it was a decent diversion . for me , Fire Starter is a
decent little mystery , but not spectacular	i though this was a decent little movie . it's about a writer who is sent to Mexico for inspiration , to wrote the next big story , which will hopefully be made into a movie . while in Mexico , he wakes up one morning to find one of his kidneys missing . he then discovers they want his second kidney . i didn't find this movie overly exciting , but it did keep my interest . some of the scenes stretch into implausibility and are not realistic . it's also pretty predictable for the most part , if you're paying attention . the other thing is , the movie is pretty low key . it's mot what i would call action packed or exciting . still , it was an enjoyable diversion and I've sen worse . for me , The Harvest is a
not bad for a silent movie made in 1923	this is the first film version of The Ten Commandments . it is directed by Cecil B . Demille , who also directed the 1956 version . this version is very lean , going through the events of that time , very quickly . in 50 minutes , in fact . i'm guessing they just kept the essentials of the story , without anything extra . the special effects are quite something for that day . the film must have been a grand undertaking . the remaining 80 minutes or so is a morality play set in more modern times ( around 1923 , i'm guessing ) concerning how the Ten Commandments relate to modern life , and what happens if we don't obey them . for me , this second half is just way too heavy handed and preachy . the message is a good one , but it feels like you're being hit over the head with sledgehammer . some of the acting may seem a bit exaggerated , but they had to act that way , since they didn't have sound . there is an orchestral accompaniment , that plays through out the film . the only problem is , i found the music too repetitive . it got annoying after awhile . still , considering that this movie was mad in 1923 , it's not too bad . my vote for The Ten Commandments ( 1923 ) is a
part 5 ( )	this fifth entry in the series has an interesting twist that is hinted subtly ( or maybe not subtly ) a few times throughout the movie . i liked the ending to part 4 : The Final Chapter , but i liked this ending even more . otherwise , there's not much straying from the familiar formula mined in the last 4 . masked psycho slaughters several people for no apparent reason . some of the characters in this one are just plain unlikable , or stupid . once again the acting is nothing special , but then again , that's to be expected when your characters are merely plot devices , and nothing more . for me , this movie wasn't as good as the fourth . my vote for Friday the 13th-Part 5 : A new Beginning is a
too much philosophizing and preaching for the first 60 minutes	i was disappointed in this installment of the Rambo series . i found it slow going for the first hour , plus it was too philosophical and preachy for my tastes . however , the last 40 minutes are pretty much wall to wall action . realism gets thrown out the window , though . i mean how much can one guy do , especially given the amount of pain inflicted on him , and the overwhelming odds against him . the only thing missing from this movie was Rambo's red cape . still , it'll definitely get your adrenaline pumping , if you can get through the first hour . but even the action doesn't raise it to the standard of the previous two movies . for me , Rambo III is a
" The Cutting Edge " lite	i just watched this movie last night . i had fairly high hopes , although i knew it wouldn't outdo the original . this one is really a rehash of the original , but with different characters . This time around , it's Jackie Dorsie ( son of Kate Mosely , now Mosely-Dorsey and Doug Dorsey , from the original ) . Moira Kelly and D . B Sweeney do not return as " older " Kate and Doug , but Stepfanie Kramer and Scott Thompson Baker both do okay in the roles , and Baker actually looks quite a bit like the older version of Doug might be , although they have relatively little screen time . that is reserved for the character of Jackie ( Christy Carlson Romano ) , also surprise , surprise a champion figure skater , with her own diva attitude . Her eventually training partner is extreme in line skater Alex Harrison ( Ross Thomas ) naturally these 2 have little in common and can't stand each other , but that doesn't come across as strongly as it should . there is less intensity between them , and the chemistry doesn't always seem quite there . you could call this " Cuttin Edge " lite . they could have made the animosity between the 2 stronger and more pronounced . also , some of the lines they had seemed contrived . the writing could have been stronger . the actors themselves aren't bad , but the script makes it harder for them to seem genuine . even many scenes which don't include the 2 leads together come across as clichd . there are also times when he movie drags . this is a direct to video movie , and it is almost too family friendly for this type of material . it has a Disney feel to it . there is nothing wrong with a Disney movie per se , but this movie lacked the edge it should have had . the music is not too bad , but nothing really memorable or catchy . i won't say this is a bad movie , because I've seen a lot of bad movies , and this movie is nowhere near as bad as any of them . it just could have been better , given the potential . Christy Carlson Romano has made a career ( thus far , anyway ) out of mostly straight to video family movies , and of course the TV series Even Stevens ( which i really like ) and other TV show appearances . i think she can break out of this mold and graduate to more adult fare , given the right material , if she wanted . she certainly has the potential . anyway , back to the film , i'd have to give it
not as bad as people say	i don't get it . people say this is the worst Star Trek movie of them all . i'm not sure i agree . i kinda liked it . i know it's not action packed to say the least , and the plot may be unusual , but so what . i found this movie to have a fair amount of humour in it , not as much as the fourth installment , but some . the whole movie is really one 105 minute philosophy lesson , but that didn't really bother me . personally , i thought the story was interesting . enough to maintain my interest for the full running time . i wasn't bored at all . the premise could be called absurd , but it's certainly no more absurd than a lot of other films that get churned out . i think it was better than The first Star Trek movie and as good as the second one ( The Wrath of Kahn ) . i realize i may be in the minority here , but that's life . for me , Star Trek 6 : The Final Frontier is a
basically an extension of the Crocodile Hunter series	this is basically just an extension of the Crocodile Hunter TV series . it has it's amusing moments , and is entertaining enough , but it's not much more than a fluff piece . the plot is pretty weak , and most of the characters have no depth or development . most of the movie seems like just a showcase for Irwin's antics . plus , after about the 70 minute mark , it seems to lose any steam that it did have . still Steve Irwin and his wife Terri ( playing themselves ) are both likable characters , and Steve's antics are amusing . even in the movie , it's not hard to see their passion for wildlife . the message about how we should love and respect the animals on the planet , since many of them were here before us , and we are encroaching on their habitat , is not at all heavy handed or preachy . for me , Crocodile Hunter : Collision Course is a
has some real chills , but could have been shorter	while i thought the haunting was a good movie , i didn't think it was great . it does have some genuine chills , and is very atmospheric . the music certainly elevates the suspense factor . i did like the odd mix of characters , two of which were downright creepy . i thought the movie was too long and protracted though . it was also too talky . the continual voice over of one of the characters was annoying after awhile , too . i did like the irony in the movie though , and the ending was good . the acting was also very good . but there were some very slow , awkward moments which really lowered my opinion of it . still , it was well made , and you could do a lot worse with 112 minutes . by the way , this movie was remade a few years ago . i think i liked the remake a bit better . anyway , my vote for The Haunting :
a few very funny moments , but not enough ( )	i remember watching this movie when it first came out , and thinking it was a scream . but , after just watching it again today , i have a different opinion . sure , there are a few very funny parts , but for the most part , i just found the movie silly . it definitely is not for anyone easily offended , that's for sure . this certainly isn't the worst movie i've ever seen , and as a spoof , it's OK . it certainly does lampoon a few horror movie and even some non horror movie , with varying degrees of success . ironically it almost works better as a horror movie than a spoof , in my mind . it is certainly watchable and not boring . it just isn't as funny as i originally remembered it . for me , Scary movie is about a
similar to " deliverance " but i don't think it's quite as good	this is not a bad movie . it's sort of like " Deliverance " . 5 friends go on a backwoods trip together . they are each doctors or former doctors . anyway , as the film progresses , things start to happen to the group . small things at 1st , than things get serious . the group realizes they are being stalked and terrorized by an unseen enemy , and their lives are in danger . the movie has its share of suspense and excitement . but it also has its share of tedious moments . the ending in particularly drags on way too long for my tastes . on the whole , though , this is worth watching . it came out in 1977 , so some modern audiences might not like it or even relate to it . if you liked " Deliverance " give this 1 a chance . i don't think it's quite as good , but it's in a similar vein . i think Rituals is
standard action adventure movie	the " cave " cannot be classified as a horror movie , since it is not horrifying . it is standard fare action adventure that uses music to try to manufacture suspense , but does not deliver . one problem is that the creatures were revealed much too soon , thereby eliminating a possible avenue of suspense . and once the creatures are revealed , it is readily apparent that the filmmakers borrowed heavily from the " alien " saga , and also from " predator " . at times the creatures just didn't look quite realistic , and at times they looked hokey . for instance , when one of the creatures is swinging along the top of the cave like a monkey swinging on a vine . this scene was quite funny and easily ruined any tension there may have otherwise been . i will say that giving the creatures the ability of flight was a novel idea and effective . one scene i really liked was where tyler comes up behind a creature and slits its throat , decapitating it . this scene just seemed to give the movie a much needed shot of adrenaline , albeit for a brief few seconds . however , there are far too many areas where the film was not effective . i didn't care too much for most of the characters , but the one character i did care for was charlie , played by piper perabo . however she was killed off , which disappointed me . i felt she she should have been one of the survivors . the ending was okay , and left open the possibility ( probability ) of a sequel . in short , the cave had very little to offer in the way of originality , but does have lots of action and some nice cinematography , so isn't a complete loss . it ranks lower than the cavern , but is entertaining . worth renting
it's not the worst B movie i've seen	this is one sick and twisted movie . there isn't a lot of gore , but what gore there is , is pretty extreme . i also thought there was some continuity problems . some of the scenes don't seem to have any context , so it is hard to follow . it's a B movie , for sure , but , despite its problems , i thought it was OK . i liked the music and the atmosphere , and the story was interesting , though not completely original . think Evil Dead and a bit of Child's Play . i didn't think the acting was too bad . i don't think it was great , but i have seen much worse . towards the end , there is a hysterical scene , which sorta reminded me of the Child's Play movies . for me Curse of the Maya , AKA Dawn of the Living Dead ( nothing to do with George A . Romero's " Dead " series ) is a
not sure what all the hype is about .	i'm not sure what the big deal is about this movie . i mean , it borrows heavily from other sources , such as the bible and Star Wars , among others . the gist of the story is that the world people see around them is isn't real . it's actually a construct made by machines . Humanity is actually enslaved by the machines . but there is one man who can free humanity . that man may be a hacker who goes by the name Neo . Neo is portrayed by Keanu Reeves . also playing prominent roles are Carrie Ann Moss and Laurence Fishburne . but in my mind , it is Hugo weaving who steals the show as the enigmatic agent Smith . i will admit the movie has some great special effects and some spectacular fight scenes . but some of the moves in the fights are really silly and are not what i would call practical . also , a lot of the movie is slow moving , and the characters don't behave in logical ways . still , the movie does have its good moments . there are some genuine moments of high tension . this is the first of three movie in The Matrix franchise . for me , the first movie in the series is a
Sequel to Category 6 : day of destruction	this movie is the sequel to Category 6 : Day of Destruction . like category 6 , this one deals with a series of catastrophic storm systems , many converging together at one time , creating a series of super storms around the globe . however , this time an unprecedented category 7 is imminent over Washington , D . C which will leave the city in ruins , killing thousands of people . the government and the disaster agencies must find a way to avert disaster . there is also another , non weather related element to deal with , which adds another dimension . will disaster be averted ? you will have to watch the movie to find out . there is obviously a ton of action , as in the original . the cgi is quite good for a made for TV movie . the acting however , did not seem as convincing this time around . There are a few strictly minor league ( b movie or lower quality ) actors / actresses in this movie . also , this movie is much more preachy than the first . at times , it is almost a sermon on pollution and global warming . that put me off a fair bit . the movie is much faster paced than Category 6 , so it does movie quicker . the big problem however , is , how do you make the movie more intense than the last one ? i don't think you can . the movie is certainly louder , but visually , it had been already been done In the original . and although the movie had some tense moments , i wouldn't call it thrilling , and it wasn't really a fun experience . overall , i'd have to give this movie
modern day pirate ends up searching for buried treasure	this is a movie about a modern day pirate ( or at least , that's what he calls himself . really though he is simply a charter boat captain for hire and thief . his job does get him into some hairy situations , meaning a fair amount of action . there is even some intrigue and some romance as weals a hunt for buried treasure . captain Jefferey Thorpe ( Thomas Ian Griffith ) has 2 sidekicks who travel everywhere with him . mostly there for comic relief i guess . this has all the ingredients to be a great movie , yet it isn't . this whole sub genre of film has been done many times before , so there is little new or original in this movie . However , there is 1 thing this movie has going for it : Gerit Kling , who plays the dual role of Helna / Marlena and also the love interest of Thorpe . ( Griffith ) Kling is truly a stunning woman and when you combine that with her German accent , it's enough to make most men melt . ( i did anyway ) Griffith makes a credible action hero , if only the movie had something new to offer . despite the problems withe film , i'd still give it a , mostly for the beautiful love interest .
mystery / western	this is a pretty good western . but it's not just a western . it's also a mystery . actually it's probably more of a mystery than a western . it's short clocking in at around 65 minutes , but it's a pretty good movie . it stars Randolph Scott , Anne Sheridan , Kathleen Burke , Florence Roberts , Howard Wilson , Charles ' Chic ' Sale , Mrs . Leslie carter , George F . Marion , among others . i thought it was well done . it had a nice atmosphere , and wasn't wholly predictable . the acting was good by all concerned , and the story was interesting , but similar to another western i remember seeing . though i can't recall weather this movie came out before that one or not . by similar story , i don't mean the general outline and formula that most westerns follow . i mean that some of the story details and specifics are similar . regardless , i liked it . for me , The Fighting Westerner is a
A whiter shade of pale ( very pale shade of " Fargo " )	i think the maker's of this movie thought they were making another " Fargo " . Frozen tundra town in the middle of winter . Guy tries unsuccessfully to pull off a scam . Basically , Paul Barnell ( Robin Williams ) is a travel agent one step away from bankruptcy . he can't pay his bills , his wife has a mental illness of some sort ( exactly what is never really revealed ) and he doesn't have the money to send her to people who can help her . He tries unsuccessfully to make a claim on the insurance policy left by his brother , who has been gone 5 years . However , without a body , he has no case . he happens to luck upon a frozen body in a dumpster ( and after some planning ) attempts to pass it off as his brother . things don't go exactly as planned , however . let's just say a couple of mob hit men figure into the mix , as well as a suspicious insurance agent . this movie should have have been pretty decent , yet it was just above average . it doesn't have the edge that " Fargo " has , the characters are not as compelling , and the atmosphere just isn't really there . also Robin Williams is not up to standard here . he is just weepy and annoying . this is Mark Mylod's feature film debut , though he has directed episodes of various TV shows . Collin Friesen wrote the script . he also wrote the script for " Plague City : Sars in Toronto " , as well as a 17 min short entitled " Farm Sluts " . and no it is not a porno , but more a modern day farce about one man's life and how it quickly unravels due to a misunderstanding . Anyway , with a more seasoned writer and director , " The Big White " could have been a memorable movie . instead it is a pale attempt at evoking comparisons to " Fargo " . however it falls short .
the first in the Man With No Name trilogy	it took me awhile to get around to watching this movie , which is considered a classic by a lot of people . it was a bit too sedate for my tastes , although it wasn't a horrible movie and it probably bears viewing at least twice . it's the first of three movies in the Man With no Name trilogy , directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood as the man with no name . he's also the quiet man with no name . the character doesn't say much unless he needs to . he's brooding and mysterious , and doesn't give too much away about himself . he's also calm and cool , at least on the outside , showing little or no outward emotion . Eastwood is the perfect actor to play this character . though he was in the series Rawhide , it was apparently this series that rocketed him to fame . although i thought there were some slow moment here and there , i didn't hate the film , and i can understand why it has the following and reputation it does . for me , Fistful of Dollars is a
decent enough , but not for the squeamish	Bad Dreams is about a girl named Cynthia ( Jeniffer Rubin ) who survives a mass suicide , but is in a coma for 13 years . when she awakes from the coma , she begins seeing the leader of the cult . it seems he is still waiting for her to join him on the other side , and he will do whatever it takes to get her to join him . Richard Lynch plays the cult leader . i won't tell you exactly what happens but what results is a lot of blood and guts . if you're squeamish , you might want to avoid this one . if you've seen a lot of horror movies , then there will probably be nothing new to you in the gore dept . by the way , Susan Ruttan ( L . A . ) plays one of the patients in the hospital . anyway , i thought the movie was decent enough . it wasn't fast paced or anything , but it wasn't really slow either . it was somewhere in between . if you're into horror and you want pass a couple hours , you could do worse , especially if you catch it on premium cable , like i did .
creative and inventive , but not quite what i expected	i'll try not to give too much away , plot wise with this movie . but it basically involves the possibility of eternal life , ( sort of ) and there are some biblical parallels as well . there's a lesson in here that contains the old clich , " be careful what you wish for " you may get what you want ( or thought you wanted ) but nothing is for free , and there are sacrifices . the movie is low budget and i don't mean that as a criticism . in some scenes , the movie actually works better as a result . overall , though i didn't like the movie as much as i thought i would . i'd had heard of it before , and had high expectations . i guess i though it would be more profound than it was . it has its moments , to be sure . it's not boring by any means , but it just has less of an impact than i hoped . it's directed and written by Guillermo del Toro , who also directed Hell Boy , Blade 2 and Pan's Labyrinth . as for " Cronos " it certainly is unique with a different twist on an old genre . for me , Cronos is a
a real mixed bag	this is an odd movie , to say the least . it's billed as a horror movie , though there isn't really much horror . there is a bit of suspense and tension . and the disgust factor is pretty high here . this movie isn't for the faint of heart or weak of stomach . i guess you'd call it a black comedy and i like the setting , even though it isn't wholly original . i also like the mix of odd ball characters . the music was very appropriate for the movie , for the most part , although i thought it was too loud at times and overpowered the movie . there are also some funny bits , many of which are intentional . however , there are also some unintentional funny moments . there are also times when the film degenerates into complete and utter chaos , with characters running around in what seems like an aimless fashion . the acting was decent for the most part , but at times there was some overacting going on . when all is said and done , i think Mortuary deserves a
a decent 90 minute diversion	i liked this movie better than most people . it has a very low user rating . i thought the movie was pretty good for the most part , though there were a few things that bothered me a bit . the biggest complaint i have is that the dragons are barely even shown in the movie , which is a shame , because i thought they looked pretty good . the other thing i didn't like was that the movie becomes muddled just over halfway through , and i could not make much sense of it . up to that point i liked it quite a bit . i also should mention that i thought some of the fighting scenes were not very good . there is lots of excitement in the movie , and i certainly didn't find it boring . i think it is well worth killing around 90 min or so . for me " Dungeons and Dragons " is about a
disappointing collaboration between Steven Spielberg and Tom Cruise	considering this movie is directed by Steven Spielberg and stars Tom Cruise , it should be a great movie . but it's not . it's based on a short story by Philip K . Dick . this isn't a horrible movie , but it's just not really good either . i liked the futuristic concept , but the execution of it just doesn't deem to quite work . i found it boring and too long , and not very compelling . Spielberg is a gifted director , and tom Cruise has proved to have a great screen presence , if not great acting ability . but everyone is entitled to a few missteps in their career . this movie is certainly the exception for Spielberg and Cruise seems lacking his usual presence . when it's all said and done , it adds up to a blah experience . i guess it's a bit better than average , so i ' ' give it a
decent acting and great music elevate the movie	this is an OK TV movie , i guess . i think it's supposed to be a black comedy . it had some ironic moments , to be sure . i did not find it scary in any way , so i don't think it could be called a horror movie . i did think the acting was pretty decent . i really liked the soundtrack . i thought it was very unique . i felt it fit nicely withe movie . i did expect the movie to be better than it was , so in that regard , i found it a disappointment . it's a decent diversion if you want to kill 90 minutes , though i wouldn't say it's a brilliant movie , by any stretch . it was nice to see Judd Nelson in a different kind of role . i think he pulled it off well . not once did i think of the 80's teen movie " The Breakfast Club " which i think Nelson is well known for . to me , that's a sign of a good actor . and like i said , the acting was decent all around . it was just the movie itself that didn't quite work for me . I'll give " Cabin by the Lake " for the acting and the great music .
not quite fully developed	this is a foray into dark territory for Robin Williams . he plays a very disturbed and sick individual , who ends up stalking a family . this movie has potential written all over it . psycho stalks family and incorporates himself into their lives . so far , so good . now , enter Robin Williams as the psycho , something new for him . Does Williams live up to the challenge ? yes not only does he bring the disturbed man to life , he also brings some sympathy to the character . now , the character is certainly menacing , but the writing restrains the character . he could have really let loose and been even more psychotic than he is . the character is very low key and understated , not necessarily a bad thing , but in this case , i think they could have done more . while Williams acquits himself quite well with the material at hand , i thought the inclusion of Connie Nielson as the mother of the family being stalked was a master stroke . now , i'm not gonna say this was a bad movie , because it certainly isn't . i just think the main character and the story could have been more developed . my vote for " one Hour Photo " is
Mind numbing action film	this is a decent Arnold Schwarzenegger movie , but has less substance ( i , know , substance in an Arnie movie ? ) than his usual fare . this is pretty much mindless action . it seemed to movie like a movie that should have went direct to video . the story : a former commando's daughter is kidnapped and he has limited time to get her back alive . there isn't to much more than that . Arnie becomes a one man wrecking crew to get his daughter back . lots of mind numbing action and some great one liners from Arnie . of course you know how it will end up . but in case you don't , i won't go into detail . suffice to say an entertaining , but lacklustre effort , compared to say " Predator .
i thought it was more entertaining than number one	i thought his movie was more entertaining than the first one , but not necessarily funnier . i liked the banter and interplay between Sandra Bullock and Regina King . i did think that the story was bit thin though , but it is faster paced than the the original movie . i also felt it was more of a chick flick , but there's nothing wrong with that . if you don't like chick flicks , you might not like this one that much . there were also less funny moments in this one , but the funny moments were much funnier than anything in the first one . overall , i'd say i liked this movie a bit better . i wouldn't say it's great , but it's not half bad . for me , Miss Congeniality 2 : Armed and Fabulous is a
decent fantasy adventure movie	this fantasy adventure movie is not as good as i'd hoped , but it's still pretty good . it does plod along though for the fist 60 minutes or so , then it pickup for about 20 minutes . from there it slows down , but not as slow as it had been previously . the last 30 minutes are quite good , in my opinion . things really pick up here , with some great action and excitement . this movie has some original ideas in it , but it also borrows from other movies . there are some pretty big name actors in this one . and all put in terrific performances . Robert De Niro in particular , gets to have the most fun with his role , i think . he really lets loose . anyway , this movie definitely has its good moments . for me , Stardust is a
not quite as good as the other two in the series	i think this was a prequel to both cube and cube 2 ( possible minor spoiler ) based on how the movie ended . if i recall , it ties in with the beginning of one of those movies . i'm just not sure which . either way , i thought it was a good movie , though a bit slow at times . it gives an explanation of sorts as to why the people who in the cube are there . i wasn't completely satisfied with the explanation given , but at least they gave one . i i didn't think this installment is a as gory as the two previous . and to me , this movie also lacked the tense and suspenseful atmosphere of the other two . having said that , i caught it on premium cable , , and i think it's decent enough for that venue . i think it would be worth a rental , but i don't think i would purchase it . just my thoughts
slightly above average romantic comedy ( not one of Hugh Grant's best )	i didn't like this movie very much . i didn't think it was horrible , but i just found it slow for a romantic comedy . Hugh Grant is in this movie , along with Julia Roberts . i think Hugh Grant is very funny most times . but in this movie , he didn't seem as funny as usual . i watched about 45 minutes before my attention completely wandered , then i stopped the movie . Grant is also in " 2 Weeks Notice " , a romantic comedy with Sandra Bullock . that movie i really enjoyed . i felt Grant and Bullock had great romantic and comedic chemistry . i didn't feel any chemistry between Grant and Roberts , for whatever reason . i will say that Rhys Ifans had some funny moments as the roommate of Grant's character . overall all though , i'd say this movie is slightly above average ( what i saw anyway ) but not enough to make me watch the whole movie . thus , my rating for " Notting Hill " is
Garfield's first live action cinematic adventure	not too bad : is how i would describe this big screen adventure of the world's most famous fat cat , Garfield . Gafield himself is computer generated and well done , at , i might add . he is voiced by Bil Murray , who is a perfect fit for the character . Garfield , is of course very likable , as is the dog portraying Odie . the rest of the animal cast are all real live animals . well trained real live animals , some of whom are voiced by people . The two main human characters are also likable . some may found the story a bit weak , and rushed , but i thought it was good enough . it's simple enough to appeal to young children , but it's also amusing enough for adults . it does feel short at 80 minutes ( including credits ) but they do pack enough in there . i found it watchable , and amusing at times . was it the best movie i have ever seen ? of course not . but i found it worth the 80 minutes or so . i " d give Garfield a
mildly amusing caper comedy starring Don KNotts	in this sort of caper comedy , Darren McGavin and Don Knotss star as a safe cracker and his partner / lookout / getaway driver . both are softhearted and eventually get mixed up in a ( sort of ) kidnap scheme with a young girl and her brother ( who happen to have a penchant for mischief ) . anyway , the usual hi jinx take place . there's some physical comedy and some silly car chases . there's also some pretty bad overacting . but that's seems par for the course in a lot of Disney comedies form the seventies . it's all mildly amusing for the most part and it's entertainment the whole family can enjoy . for me , No Deposit , No Return is a
pretty decent for its time	just watched the howling a couple of night ago , and thought i would add my two cents . " the howling starts off as a movie about a serial killer named eddie ( played by robert ricardo , who would later play the holographic doctor on star trek voyager ) who wants to meet with newswoman karen white , played by dee wallace . karen meets with eddie and escapes being seriously injured or killed as the police arrive and eddie is shot and supposedly killed . karen is so traumatized by this event , that she is persuaded by a psychiatrist to take some time off and go to the " colony " to come to terms with the trauma . this is where the movie changes gears , as karen begins to hear strange howling sounds at the " colony " during the night . i won't reveal too much more except to say that the " colony " is not what it seems and its members hide a dark secret . as for the werewolves , they looked prety realistic but we hardly ever see them . there are a few scenes which are funny rather than scary and i'm not sure if they are intentional or not . there is one transformation scene which is pretty good . i didn't find " the howling " scary but it was a fun movie to watch . not quite as good as " american werewolf in London " which was made that same year and certainly nowhere near as good as " dog soldiers " but all in all a fun diversion with a bit of suspense thrown in for good measure . if you have nothing better to do , watch " the howling " . you will probably enjoy it . .
At least they didn't kill the hot chick right away	here we go again . another slasher flick , but with a twist-just kidding , at least about the twist . i was pretty bored through this one . first off the requisite nut bar doesn't even start killing people soon enough . and when said killings do occur , the death scenes are lame . the director tries to fool us with flashy camera tricks and loud music , but alas to know avail . this thing is predictable from the get go . the only question is who survives . i mean someone has to survive , so they can either be killed in the next ( i hope not ) installment or do the killing . naturally the characters are complete morons , even tasking stupidity to a whole new level in some scenes . so , nu-me nu-me nu-me , ( not an actual word , i know ) we sit and wait for them to be dispatched one by one . i did care when on of the characters got killed , because she is so hot . the bastards ! they have to kill the hot one every time . Oh , well , i keep watching , so what do i expect ? for keeping the hot chick alive for awhile .
great for gore hounds	i liked this movie . it's a bit slow at times , but it is enjoyable , for the most part . the creature isn't the most realistic i've seen , but i have seen a lot worse . there is lots of gore , so if you have a weak stomach , you might want to prepare yourself . but if you're a gore hound , you'll probably really like that aspect of it . there are no big name actors / actresses here , but i really liked the actress who played the female forest ranger . i thought she was very convincing . this won't likely be the best horror movie you ever see , but it's sure better than a lot of them out there . it has a rating on this site , but i would rate it higher than that . i give It Waits a
i think it's better than number one	i think this movie is a bit better than the first one . it starts off better , with some action right off the bat . it slows down somewhat not long after , but it's not as boring as number one . i think it is better paced , and i feel it is also is written better . the dialogue is more interesting . there is more of a story to this one , and the villain is pretty well defined . there is a bit of suspense and excitement in this one , which i found lacking in the first one . also the characters are given much more to do in this one . i do think the last 30 minutes or so kind of drag though . even though this one is better than the first , there is certainly room for improvement , in my view . its ' still not that great . i'll give Star Trek 2 : The wrath of Khan :
has its good moments	this based on a true story movie is all right , i suppose . it involves a ban robber and his wife / partner , and the FBI as they try and stop him . problem is , he wears a good disguise and thanks to his wife ( the brains behind the outfit ) very organized . eventually the bank robberies escalate into shootings , and the move ends on a tragic , sad note . Unlike another In the Line of Duty movie , The FBI Murders , this one is not as brutally violent . it also moves a lot slower . the criminals in this one are shown to be more sympathetic . whether that's accurate to the real story , i don't know . Bruce Campbell ( The Evil Dead Trilogy ) and Lori Loughlin ( TV's Full ) House star as the husband and wife . both are decent enough . Loughlin was actually pretty good , transcending her all American girl image from Full House . i'd give this movie a
i didn't mind it ( i know , i must have a screw loose somewhere )	I'm pretty sure this is a straight to video movie . maybe i'm coming down with something , but i actually found it entertaining . it's not at all original and you can predict every single plot twist right off the bat . Erica Eleniak ( Under Siege ) plays Federal agent Kate Parker who is tasked with extraditing a fugitive named Claire Scott ( Brigitta Dau , " The Inheritance " , " When the Cradle falls " , both TV movies ) wanted in connection with a murder . you already know the rest , or you should , unless this is the first and only movie you've ever watched . just in case , here is the rest of the plot . complications ensue , people get killed , all ends well . like i said , i liked it - - well maybe not liked , but it was entertaining , for some strange reason . i mean , it shouldn't be . the acting is okay , i thought . Erica Eleniak , oddly enough has ( dare i say it ) some screen presence and her character is certainly no bimbo . i actually like the interaction between the middle aged , very much in love , husband and wife assassin team , Mr and Mrs . Jones , played by Stacy Keach and Erin Grey . i though they were quite amusing and i don't mean unintentionally . there is some really cringe worthy dialogue , i admit and you can tell it's B movie , obviously . All in all though , it passed the time and i didn't have to pay for it . based on it's entertainment value , i give " Caught in the Headlights " a solid
not exactly my bag , but still well done	i'm not sure , but it think this movie may be related to the TV series , Firefly or at least have a similar style . if that's the case , it would probably be better to be familiar with the show before watching the movie . i have not seen the show , so that may explain why i didn't get the movie . or not . anyway , i don't think Serenity is a bad movie . in fact , i think it's well done . it looks great , and there are some amazing fight sequences . nevertheless , i couldn't follow it . the dialogue was different , sort what i would expect to hear during the Civil War era or in the old west . so , some of the things they talked about , i wasn't quite sure what they meant or what context to put things in . anyway , this movie wasn't really my bag , but i think fans of Firefly and a lot of general science fiction fans will enjoy it . for me , even though it's not my cup of tea , i'd still have to give Serenity a , because it is so well done . but that's just my opinion .
decent time killer	i guess this wasn't a horrible movie . it just wasn't that great either . it's a pretty standard , generic crime drama / mystery . there are some scenes that could have been from any movie of the genre . AL Pacino is the headliner here , and looks like he's sleepwalking through the part . Leelee Sobieski , Deborah Kara Unger , Neil McDonough , and Alicia Witt also star . I like Alicia Witt as an actress , and she does OK here . in fact , i'd say she the best of the bunch . but she has little to work with . the movie itself is mostly implausible . it just doesn't add up . there's no real suspense or intensity . despite hat , i was entertained for the 101 minute running time . the movie is fairly fast paced . for me , 88 minutes is a
not a bad movie , but	i wouldn't say it's a comedy . it's not a bad movie . it's billed as part comedy , but i wouldn't really say it's a comedy . i think it's more a crime drama , with a bit of lite humour thrown in . there are one or two mildly amusing moments , but nothing i would consider funny . the premise is good . Arnold Schwarzeneggar plays a cop who has to go undercover as a kindergarten teacher . i think they could have exploited this fish out of water angle more in depth and longer . still the movie is actually entertaining for the most part , as a crime drama . Arnold again teams up with director Ivan Reitman ( their previous collaboration was Twins ) . i actually liked this movie more . Pamela Reed and Penelope and Miller also star , but both have less to do than i would have liked . Linda Hunt as the school administrator ( or principal , her title is never really mentioned ) is good , in what is basically a cameo . for me , Kindergarten Cop is a
almost mother-in-law from hell	Charlie ( Jenifer Lopez ) has had nothing but bad luck in the dating dept , going from one loser to another . One day , however , she meets Kevin Fields , ( Michael Vartan ) a successful doctor , and her life changes . Charlie and Kevin get serious and soon it is time to meet Viola , Kevin's Mother , ( Jane Fonda ) and break the news they are engaged . the meeting turns out to be a disaster . Charlie is convinced Viola hates her , but Kevin convinces her Viola will come around . Viola had fairly recently been fired unceremoniously from a storied news career and her mental health had taken a nosedive . she had been almost recovered and starts to slip again after hearing the news . anyway , Jevin and Charlie forge ahead with their wedding plans , with Viola doing everything ( but not really ) in her power to stop the impending nuptials . the best parts of this movie are watching Lopez and Fonda verbally and physically spar and try to one up each other . there should have been more of these confrontations and Viola could have been a much stronger villain , but as it is , she is undeserving of the title Monster-In-Law . the stuff before and in between is weak and uninspired , for the most part . However Wanda Sykes as Ruby , Voiola's loyal assistant , provides comic relief and makes this movie more watchable than it really is . Sykes is always brilliant , but underused and underrated in Hollywood . Vartan is okay as the love interest for Charlie , but is out of his depth . Fonda looks like she is having a lot of fun with her character , and Lopez though competent at times is not always convincing as the poor simple character , considering her real larger than life persona . the movie itself is entertaining enough , though forgettable , but you could do a lot worse .
" i was wrong about you , you're not stupid . you're crazy "	Outland takes place on one of Jupiter's moons . it stars Sean Connery as the newly arrived marshal for a remote mining colony located on the moon . he soon discovers some criminal activity and realizes that he may be in over his head as he tries to bring the criminals to justice . that's all i'll say regarding the plot , because i don't want to give anything away . the movie reminded me of Alien in its style , and in its bleak tone . i don't think it was as good as Alien though . i thought Connery was good as the marshal . i also liked Francis Sternhagen as the Dr . for the colony . i thought her character was interesting . James B . Sikking , John Ratzenberger and Peter Boyle , also appear in the movie , but their characters are peripheral at best , and undeveloped . as for the movie itself , it's not fast paced at all , but it is interesting and intriguing , just enough to see it through to the end .
the woods are lovely , dark and deep . . . and i have promises to keep . . . and miles to go before i sleep	Quentin Tarantino's homage to 70's exploitation films is not as good as the other half of the Grindhouse feature , Planet Terror . this one has some really great 70's music and some good dialogue , although some of it seems contrived , and i just didn't think it was as clever as Planet Terror . it takes awhile too get going , and once it does get going , it's not bad , though not as exciting as it should have been . there's an ensemble cast here , and all are good . Kurt Russel is perfectly cast as Stuntman Mike , an insane driving terror , who happens to terrorize the wrong women and gets a taste of his own medicine . there's a lot of very frequent oars language here and a bit of gore . unfortunately , this movie just isn't as fun as i hoped . not horrible , just not great . for me , Death Proof is a
not any better or worse than the Richard Lester film	after watching this version of Superman II , i can honestly say , i didn't think it was any better or worse than the Richard Lester version . there are a few differences , which show that Donner had a bit different vision for the film , but overall , the film are pretty similar . you may notice a continuity problem because , Superman and Superman II , were originally filmed as one movie by Donner . but after Donner was let go , they decided to make tow separate film and retool the second one . either way , in my opinion , neither of the films are close to capturing the magic of the first one . still , it was nice to see the movie how Donner had originally intended it . for me , Superman II : The Richard Donner cut is a
has some tension , and good acting but is too slow	basically , a reporter and her cameraman discover a cover-up at a nuclear plant . it was alright , i guess . it had some exciting moments and some tension , and the acting is good , but it also seems too long . there are a lot of slow spots . Jack Lemmon , Jane Fonda and Michael Douglas star . Douglas looks quite different with a full beard . Wilford Brimley also stars in the movie . James Bridges directed the movie . he co-wrote The China Syndrome with T . S . Cook and Mike Gray . for me , this movie is no classic , though many people may disagree . if it didn't have so many slow spots , i would give it a higher rating . as it is , i give The China Syndrome a
a bit long at 148 minutes	this movie is basically about a man who abandons a life of comfort and gives away all his money to go live in the wild . along his journey , he meets some interesting characters and learns things about himself . it's another " based on a true story " movie . i liked some things about this movie , and didn't like some other things . i liked all the interesting people he met . i like the fact that he had the courage to live like he wanted to , not how society dictated . you might think he was crazy to live like he did , or you might think he embraced life . he did do some dangerous things , that's for sure . i liked the folk music soundtrack , and i thought he voice over narration from Jena Malone ( as his sister ) very effective . i didn't like the preachiness of the movie . and i also thought at 148 minutes it was too long . it's not what i would call fast paced . i also found it a bit depressing at times . generally though i found it interesting enough . for me , Into The Wild is a
interesting	at first , it seems this movie isn't really about anything . i mean other than two friends who are tooling across the country on a journey to nowhere . they drive around on the motorcycles living like gypsies , not welcome in any so called civilized establishment , like motels or restaurants . so they live outside , and they live by their own rules , free of responsibility . a lot of the time they are either stoned or in the process of getting stoned . and as it moves along , it's obvious that the movie is making a statement . the so called civilized folk , the ones who follow society , can't stand those who go their own way and do their own thing . in fact they are threatened by the very notion of freedom , so they denigrate and abuse those who don't follow along . in reality they long to be free themselves , but lack the will or the courage to do so . so , in order to make themselves feel better , they pick on outsiders . at least i think that's the issue the movie is trying to raise . in the era this movie was made , this was a really relevant issue . today , it's still relevant , but mainstream society has found other groups to pick on . if you don't fit into the strictures of rigid societal norms , you're bound to be victimized in some way . in my opinion , you should be able to live how you want , as long as you aren't harming others . nor should you denigrate other for their lifestyle choices . i think that's also the point the movie is making . or maybe i'm out to lunch . regardless , it's a different kind of movie , which does end up in bizzaro land for a bit . but , i think it's worth watching . for me , Easy Rider is a
very good , but Red Dragon is superior	i remember watching this movie a long time ago and not being all that impressed . but i watched it again last night , and i have a higher opinion of it now than i did before . it's a good film , there's no question . it's very moody and atmospheric , yet i still think Red Dragon is a superior film . however , did like a lot about " Silence . . . " . i thought Scott Glenn was excellent as Jack Crawford , Starling's ( Jodi Foster ) superior . i am not a Jodi Foster fan at all , however , she did well in this movie . i still think , though , that Julianne Moore's portrayal of Clarice Starling in Hannibal is superior . Hopkins is brilliant of course as Hannobal Lector . but Ted Levine is equally brilliant in his portrayal of " Buffalo Bill " . yes , " Silence . . . " is a very good movie , but what puzzle me is how people revere it as much as they do . it isn't that good . it will definitely give you chills and draw you in . the story is very compelling . having said all that , i give SOTL
suspenseful and intense ( i liked it )	i thought this was a pretty good movie . there's a lot going on in the 90 minute running time . the movie is suspenseful , and Jolene Blalock ( from Star Trek Enterprise ) shows she has some acting ability . the rest of the actors were OK , but nothing spectacular or anything . the movie is sort of predictable , with an ending that many viewers will see coming . but the fun is in getting there . the movie has a lot of intensity , something missing from a lot of movies of the genre . there is a side plot that does fit with in with the rest of the movie , though it is not readily apparent . throughout , the movie , there are a few potential suspects , and while i was pretty certain i had things figured out , i wasn't completely sure until the end . anyway , my vote for I Dream of Murder is a
an entertaining comedy about a dysfunctional hospital and the dysfunctional interns ( among others ) that populate it	this is actually a pretty good movie . it does not rely on slapstick bit more on situational comedy . there are quite a few chuckles throughout , peppers with some hysterical moments . the movie flowed along nicely . the story is concerned with a group of interns and their exploits at the worst hospital in the country . the interns themselves are mostly dysfunctional as are the doctors , nurses and other staff . the hospital administrator is a bit odd , to say the least . it is very easy to like these characters , because they each have personalities ( with their own quirks ) that stand out . the acting is also good . you could do much worse with 2 hours of your life than this . i'd recommend it for a entertaining 2 hour diversion at the very least .
something's not quite right in Stepford	this is one creepy and suspenseful movie . unlike the remake , which was supposed to be campy and funny ( failing miserably ) the original is dark and works very effectively . you know there is something odd in the town of Stepford , but just what it is , is not really revealed until the end . even then , there is an air of mystery , as the reason for everything is not really revealed . the second last scene has quite a sinister feel to it . this is not a fast paced movie , it moves very slowly , with things happening subtly . nevertheless , i found it very interesting and intriguing . i thought this was a movie definitely worth watching . for me , The Stepford Wives is a
pretty decent family movie ( with a couple minor swears )	this isn't too bad a movie . yes it can get preachy but it never really crosses the line into sap and drivel . it's mostly a family friendly movie with few minor swears . at first it feels quite light and fluffy , but if you stick with it , there are some deeper things going on here . David Paymer and Ryan Reynolds are the two bigger names in this movie , but it is Kate Vernon who really impressed me . as a matter of fact , i didn't recognize her while watching the movie . i only saw her name as the end credits rolled . before this had only seen her in very dark movies dealing with violent crimes . anyway , i did like this movie . it has a message , but it doesn't beat you over the head too much with it . also the movie is really touching at times , but in a good way . the acting is also good . i give " School of Life "
pretty good western	i thought this was a pretty good western . it contains most of the elements western contain , stagecoaches , robbers , and gunfights . and , there is the beautiful woman ( Susan Hayward ) and the man ( Tyrone power ) she is unwittingly thrown together with in a fight to survive . there is not a lot of action , in this particular western , but that's OK . the dramatic parts are well done , and the acting is very good . Power and Hayward acquit themselves quite well do quite well here , but Hugh Marlowe is really good as the chief Villain . Dean Jagger , Jack Elam and George Tobias also play villains with Jack Elam very strong here . there is some great chemistry / tension between Power and Hayward . as most western go this one follows the formula , so it's fairly easy to predict how thing will go . i will say , though , that the ending went a bit different than i had expected . overall , an enjoyable 86 minutes or so
heavy on form , light on substance	this supernatural movie was decent enough , i guess . i'd call it a supernatural thriller , but it isn't really thrilling . there's zero tension or suspense . it's heavy on form , but light on substance . and there is really nothing new here . there are a couple of minor plot twists , but most people will probably see it coming a mile away . but the news into all bad . the movie moves along at a good clip , and it's certainly not boring . i also thought it was nice to see Hilary portray a more mature , conservative character and she does what she can with her character . the only problem is , the character is hardly developed at all . this is unfortunate , since she is the main character . AnnaSophia Robb is mesmerizing in her role . the rest of the performances are all decent enough . the movie itself is far from being bad . it's pretty decent , but not great . i think it's entertaining enough . my vote for The Reaping :
better than the first one	i actually thought this movie was better than the first one . it's not as dark as the first one . the main character was shallow and his motivation for altering his past or present starts out with good intentions but ends up being for selfish gain . so the main character isn't really likable . in fact , he's a bit of a wretch . but the movie does show the ramifications involved when history or the present is altered . one major bonus is the addition of Erica Durance ( TV's Smallville ) as the main character " s girlfriend . she is certainly quite beautiful , but she can also act . still i can't put my finger on why i like this movie better than the first . i guess it's just one of those mysteries . the only thing i can come up with is that this movie is better paced ( and more compelling ) , whereas i found thew first one boring at times . i give " The Butterfly Effect 2 a
a pretty good civil war era film starring John Wayne and Rock Hudson	i rather enjoyed this movie starring John Wayne and Rock Hudson . i found it fast paced and exciting . i don't think it had the epic feel of many of Wayne movies ( it feels like it has a smaller scope to it ) but it's still pretty good . i did think that the music was bit too much at times . it just got too loud and repetitive . the acting was pretty good , not only from Wayne and Hudson , but also from the supporting players , many big names of the time , and some yet to be . this is not the best John Wayne movie i have seen , but it is still very good and well worth watching . you could do a lot worse with your time . for me , The Undefeated is a
a moving portrayal of one man's journey of self discovery	The Razor's Edge is the story of a man who could have had a life of wealth , but decided he wanted more . he goes on a journey of self discovery and enlightenment . the movie based on the novel by W . Somerset Maugham ( The Painted Veil ) and the screenplay is co-written by John Byrum and Bill Murray . Murray is also the main character in the film . The story begins during the time of the 1st world war . Larry Darrel ( Murray ) goes off to fight in the war . the war has taken its toll on him emotionally and when he returns home he is a different man . and so he leaves for Paris and his journey of discovery begins . This movie is very dramatic , sedate at times , and hard to get through . it is at times very poignant and sombre . but it does have a message . sometimes we think we have everything , when in fact we have nothing . the most wealthy person may have little or no money , but can be rich , nonetheless . normally i don't go for the kinds of movies that have a moral to them . and that is because they usually hit you over the head repeatedly with the message . The Razor's Edge isn't that kind of film . everything about the film is subtle , so you really just come to you own conclusions . this is not a comedy , in fact if it were a play , it would be a tragedy . Bill Murray puts in a fine dramatic performance . Theresa Russel ( Wild things , Kafka ) Catherine Hicks ( 7th Heaven ) Denholm Elliot ( Raiders of the Lost Ark ) among others put in very good supporting performances . i would not recommend this movie to everyone . if you like your viewing experience to be filled with action , this is not your movie . if your tastes run more to the sublime , you will like this movie . i give this movie a strong
i didn't like it as much as the last 2 , but thought it was still better than the 1st on	this movie is bit different than the previous installments . this time Mercenary Carl Thomasson ( Treat Williams ) poses as a teacher in an elite military school . the reason , a friend Who also happens to be a general at the school , has asked Karl to help him eradicate the white supremacist element which has infiltrated the school . i didn't like this movie as much as i liked the previous 2 in the series . i did however , think it was better than the 1st one . there is lots of action in this 1 , just like the last 2 , so that can't be the problem . i think there may be 3 reasons why i didn't like this movie . the 1st reason is the setting . although the general plot of the movie differs very little from 2 and 3 , i think i just prefer these movie take place in a high school or university setting , not a military academy . i also didn't find the white supremacist angle very interesting . i think the filmmakers tried to add another dimension with that angle , but i think it was a bit too much for this kind of film , a bit too complex an issue . i prefer the simplicity of the 1st 2 . the other reason may be the fact that i am getting tired of the series and losing interest . whatever the reasons , this 1 is not quite up to par with the 1st two . i'd have to give " The Substitute 4 "
he did it his way	there are so many movies out there dealing with the problem of kids not learning anything in schools , and dropping out , ending up in a life of crime , or dead . but this movie came out at a time when these movies weren't so commonplace . Morgan Freeman plays Joe Clark , who has been recruited as principal of a once proud school , but one which has been overrun with hoodlums for years . the teachers are powerless to do anything , and the kids fall through the cracks . it's Clark's job to restore the reputation of the school and get the kids learning again . the movie is inspirational , for sure , and the commanding presence of Morgan Freeman lends it a lot of legitimacy . the only problem i found was that it is a bit long , and a few of the songs are a bit too maudlin . but that's just my opinion . it's still a good movie . for me , Lean on Me is a
sequel set during global warming ( thousands of years ago-take that Al Gore ! )	this sequel to Ice Age came out 4 years later , and is a pretty good sequel . i wouldn't say it's as funny as the original , but it does have quite a few laughs . there are a few more characters this time around , which i didn't like at first . i kind of preferred the intimate setting of the 1st , with only 3 main characters . but , once the movie got going , i got over it . instead of an ice age , this one is set during global warming-thousands of years ago , of course ( Ha ! , i knew global warming wasn't caused by humans ) anyway , this movie does tend to be a bit slow at times , but only for brief periods . Ray Ramano , john Leguizamo and Dennis provide their voices again , and are joined by Queen Latifah . this one is rated pg , and it does have some scenes of intense peril that might be too much for young children . there is also some very mild sexual innuendos , but these would be above the heads of any youngsters . as far as sequels go , this one is worth watching .
not too shabby , in my opinion ( but what do i know ? )	maybe i need to have my head examined , but i thought this was a pretty good movie . the CG is not too bad . i have seen worse . the look of the creatures ( and by creatures i mean the good and the bad snake ) was pretty cool . the action scenes involving the snakes was really good , i thought . there are some lapses in logic at times , and the story doesn't always make sense . but for a creature feature , there are a lot worse . a lot of the other creatures seemed lifted from other movies , so it's not wholly original . i think the gist of the story is original though . there is a bit of similarity to Godzilla ( the Big budget American version ) which liked a lot . i didn't like this movie as much , but i still say it was pretty good . i also liked the music . all in all , i think Dragon Wars is about a
one of Pixar's early efforts	i thought this early animated short from Pixar was quite good . it's funny and ironic , plus it has a very catchy and infectious tune . it's also very low key , and movies at a nice sedate pace , which i liked a lot . it's from 1989 , so it's a lot different than the animated films we have today . it's a very simple short with a simple story . considering it is nearly 20 years old , it's actually very well done . it's also much more clever than many animated shorts from today , and certainly back then . i'd check it out if you have the chance . you might be surprised at how much you enjoy it . or you might not be . either way , it's not like you're losing a couple of hours . for me , Knick Knack is a
traditional style animation from Disney	this animated movie is actually pretty entertaining . there's an abundance of action , a good villain , and a couple of very funny scenes . the movie is sort of a cartoon western , done in the traditional animation style . there is lots to keep the viewer entertained . kids should like it , and adults will probably enjoy it as well . the good thing about this movie is it has a good story , and is well paced . there are even some musical numbers , ( of course this is not surprising , since most Disney movies do contain a musical element ) for people who might like musicals . " Home on the Range has something for everyone , although some of the action might be a bit intense for very young children . otherwise , a very good effort from Disney .
solid , very funny animated comedy	" Open Season " is a very entertaining animated film . i like the eclectic mix of characters . i really liked the dynamic between the 2 main characters , A domesticated bear named " Boog " ( voiced by Martin Lawrence ) and Elliot ( Ashton Kutcher ) a displaced mule deer with no family . i also though the dialogue was very good in this movie . there are some great one liners . there is also an abundance of action , ( some of it very funny ) and there are also some dramatic moments . dare i say it , this movie treads very close to being hysterical in some scenes . also , the choice of actors for the voices is brilliant in this movie , especially Lawrence and Kutcher . for me , " Open Season " gets a solid
pretty good odd couple buddy picture	this is is a pretty good action / comedy movie . it stars Nick Nolte as a hard nosed cop , and Eddie Murphy as a con who he gets paired up with to solve a crime . the movie moves at a great pace , and there are some great action scenes . the dialogue is also very good , especially the interplay between Nolte's no nonsense cop , and Murphy's smart ass ladies man convict . the 2 have great screen chemistry . both also put in great performances in this film . it is a bit more violent then i thought it would be , and there is a lot of coarse language , as well as some nudity . but none of that really effects the quality of the movie . it's a funny , action packed ride . my vote for 48 Hours :
heartwarming , funny	i enjoyed this sports comedy / romance . i found it funny , touching and engaging . it's not one of those bust a gut funny movies , it's more of the pretty good chuckles variety . it's one of those feel good kind of movies , where you just can't help but root for the guy and girl to get together . even the action bits ( mostly comedic football action ) are good . Gene Hackman and Keanuu Reeves are the headliners , but i found Brooke Langton to be very good in her role . it's nice to see Hackman and Reeves in a lite movie , rather than the intense movies they're usually known for . at the end of the movie , i felt pretty good . at the very least , you might forget about you problems for awhile . for me , The Replacements is a
very dark and disturbing ( in a good way )	i liked this movie quite a bit . it's a fantasy movie for adults . there is a bit of very graphic , realistic violence . there is also quite a bit of very strong coarse language . the movie is in Spanish or French , with English subtitles . the creatures in this movie look fantastic . i found them to be utterly realistic . but i wish we had seen more scenes of them , as they don't appear very often . the movie is very dark , and i could see how it would be scary to some people . there are some really nasty human beings in this movie and the creatures can be kinda scary . the one thing i noticed was that the story is lacking somewhat . it just doesn't seem as developed as i felt it could be . however , the acting and i still thought this was a pretty good movie . but parents should definitely use their discretion about allowing their kids to watch it . by the way , this two disc version has a raft of extras with it . anyway , for me Pan's Labyrinth is a .
a sometimes funny , often amusing , generally entertaining movie	Meet the Parents is not generally funny in a hysterical way ( though there are a few of those elements . the movie is more about the funny little things that occur when meeting the parents for the first time . anybody who has ever brought their Boyfriend / girlfriend or possible fianc to meet their parents for the first time can attest to this . of course the same goes for the person meeting the parents . this is generally what the movie is about . there are some very funny moments in the movie , to be sure . and there are very amusing moments all through the film . the movie is not funny all the time , but is always entertaining . the movie stars Ben Stiller ( The boyfriend ) , Terri Polo , ( the daughter ) Robert Deniro ( the Father ) and Blythe Danner ( the Mother )
inspired by true events	this movie had a kind of ' movie of the week ' feel to . i don't mean that in a bad way . it is a very touching and heartbreaking movie , so you might want to have some Kleenex handy . it's the story of some kids from Texas who are caught in a flash flood on their way home from bible camp . the story is more personal , since it is on a smaller scale . i really felt for those kids as they tried to survive . i also really felt for the survivors who had lost loved ones and the parents of the ones who perished . this movie is not so much about a disaster , as it is about the human beings who survive and how they and their families cope with the tragedy and the realization of loss . i thought this movie explored that aspect very well and was well acted . it is a hard movie to watch , even more so , because it is inspired by a real life tragedy . it's hard to say i enjoyed this movie , because of the subject matter . so , i have to base my rating on the acting , which is the focal point of the movie , and the strongest . on that basis , i give ' Flood . Who will save our children '
entertaining werewolf movie	just watched silver bullet and i enjoyed it . it was entertaining and well paced , though not particularly scary . the music was quite ominous and suited the movie well . most of the characters were two dimensional at best , but the actors did a good job with what they were given . i didn't feel much emotional investment for any of the characters . the creature effects were okay and we really only get a full view of the creature in one scene . despite all this , i enjoyed the movie and would watch it again , though not for awhile . the film was unique in one aspect , which i won't give away , so you'll have to watch it to find out . it is definitely worth renting , or buying if you can find it cheap . i paid ten bucks for mine and got my moneys worth . in short , you could do a lot worse .
more fun and mayhem with Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ( and Joe Pesci )	the rating for this movie on this site is , which i would have to agree with . to me , this is a better movie than the first one . it's got much more action , it's more exciting , and faster paced . it's also funnier . the characters are better defined , and the storyline is better . i also think this movie had a better villain than the first . this time , along with Danny Glover and Mel Gibson , Joe Pesci is along for the ride , and provides some laughs . also , there is more banter between Gibson and Glover . the movie is just more compelling all around . the first one was a bit slow at times , but not so with this one . for me , Lethal Weapon 2 is a
entertaining , but missing something ( )	i kinda liked this offering from Guillermo Del Toro . it's a sort of science fiction action adventure hybrid , with some humour thrown in . there's a great mix of oddball characters , some good stunts , and the look of the film is fantastic . the movie also has a great assortment of weird creatures . yet i came away feeling a bit empty , like there was something missing . despite all the good things about the movie , i guess i felt it had very little heart or soul . having said that , from a shallow point of view , i liked it . it isn't boring . i just think it had the potential to be more . when you add it all up , my vote for Hellboy is a
a bit better than the 1st one	as a sequel , this is not a bad movie . i actually liked it better than the 1st one . i found it more entertaining . it seemed like it was shot documentary style . at first this bothered me , as i thought it just looked too low budget . but it grew on me , and it made the movie seem more authentic . this movie has more dry one liners than the original , which is a good thing , in my opinion . i do think at times they went a bit over the top with some of the scenes and the characters . it almost becomes a parody of itself , which may be the point . this movie at least has some suspense , which the 1st one did not have , in my view . it has some of the same great music from the original , which is great . the acting again was pretty decent for the most part , though like i said , some of it seemed over the top . i also felt that the movie loses a lot of momentum towards the end and there are a few minutes which seem really slow and just don't seem to flow , like the rest of the movie . overall , though , i thought this was a pretty sequel . my rating for " Return to Cabin by the Lake " is
OK , but loses its focus at times ( )	for the most pat , this documentary is pretty decent viewing . it's mainly about the German juggernaut war ship Bismark and it's sinking . it gives a bit of a brief history of the ship . the some battle scenes are shown , many computer animated . the ship is shown as it sinks int the water under a barrage of British fire from most of the British fleet . meanwhile James Cameron and his crew prepare to explore the wreckage of the ship on the sea floor , using two submersibles . the footage of the ship 61 years almost to the day that it was sunk is pretty impressive . you get a real idea of how massive and well built the ship was . Cameron's crew were also able to enter the ship through many different holes , some caused by enemy artillery . you get an idea of what the inside of the was like . along with Cameron and company are two survivors of the sinking . there are a few things I didn't like here . one is that they never really had the two survivors relate much of their story , which would have been nice . another thing is i felt it took too long to get to the point where they were exploring the wreckage . also instead of letting the viewing just enjoy what they are seeing , sometimes Cameron and crew throw in some " ooh " and " ahh " comments . the documentary focuses a bit too much on the scientists and the technicians , which is not really interesting . there are a few scenes i thought they could have left out , which had very little to do with anything . other than that , though , it wasn't too bad . the computer animation was outstanding . i should qualify this by saying that this version is a two disc set , which contains special features . one of the feature is called Behind the Scenes , which has a featurette entitled Survivors . i haven't watched any of the features , but this one presumably focuses on the two survivors who are with the expedition . how in depth , i don't know . either way , though that footage should have been included in the actual feature . for me Expedition Bismark is a
decent animated movie , for the most part	right off the bat , i have to say that this film is not half bad . there's plenty of action , lots of explosions and some decent villains . if you are a fan of the comic book , you might not like it , because as far as i know , it is not that faithful an adaptation . also , the origin of Iron Man as told in this movie , is in my opinion , weak and much too brief and definitely is not faithful to the comic book . but there are plenty good things about the movie . the voice actor fit very well with their roles and the story was pretty good and the decent villains , which i mentioned earlier . as animated movies go , this 1 is pretty good . in my opinion ' The Invincible Iron Man ' is about a
entertaining and tension filled	this was a pretty entertaining movie . i thought it was well paced , even the dramatic scenes . it's set during the cold war , when The Soviet Union and the U . S had high tensions between them . Clint Eastwood is good as a former American fighter pilot who still has flashbacks from Vietnam and hasn't flown for years . he is enlisted to steal a state of the art Russian jet so the U . S . can study its capabilities and make sure they don't fall behind in their Technology . Eastwood is good as the hero , and he also directed the picture . there's some great tension and suspenseful moments here . the flying sequences were really good at times . at other times , they are dated and don't look very realistic . still , the movie is fun , and i like the story . for me , Firefox is a
epic 1930 Western	Cimarron traces the early history of Oklahoma , starting with the land rush in 1899 . from there it spans forty years in the development of that land into an eventual American state and the advances of technology that came with it . the story itself is an epic tale , so its focus is pretty broad . this sort of makes it a bit impersonal at times . it starts off slow , but somewhere along the lines it picks up and becomes somewhat compelling . i also found it interesting how people behaved back in that time , at least according to the movie . it does feel a bit like a silent movie at times . some of the acting feels over exaggerated . that sort of makes sense , since talking pictures had just recently replaced silent films as the movie medium . so , many of the actors would have been used to acting in silent pictures . nevertheless , i still enjoyed it , for the most part . for me , Cimarron is a
the lesser of the three , but still good	of the three law and Order shows , this is my least favourite . it's much slower than both of the other ones . there isn't ' usually a lot of action . there's a lot more dialogue in this one , and the dialogue is usually pretty well written . i like the banter back and forth between the main characters . also , there is a fair amount of humour in this entry , which i like . of course it's gallows humour , or black humour . Criminal Intent has almost no humour , while SVU has some , but to a lesser degree . the show does not delve into the personal lives of its characters at all . i still find it interesting , all things considered . for me , Law and Order is a
Chan and Tucker make a great odd couple team	this is a pretty good movie . it's an action adventure comedy . there is a lot of action and the movie is fast paced . there isn't a lot of comedy , but comedy bits there are , are pretty funny . Jackie Chan's acrobatic , over the top cartoonish martial arts moves are funny . Chris Tucker's motor mouth character is pretty funny at times . also the teaming of Chan and Tucker is a great idea . they work well off each other . one could not be more opposite from the other . i liked their back and forth banter . the other thing i like about this movie is that even though there is some violence , it's not excessive , and there is a bit of coarse language , but not very much . for me , Rush Hour is a
unseen beast goes on killing spree in 1776 France ( the story may have a kernel or two of truth to it )	this movie may or may not have been inspired by real events . if it was , i'm sure a lot was changed for dramatic effect . it take place in France during the reign of King Louis XV in 1776 . it chronicles the hunt for a an unseen and unknown beast that has responsible for many deaths and has paralyzed the citizens with fear . two men with special talent are dispatched to find and destroy the monster . i won't give any more away plot wise . however , i will say , this is not a horror movie . that is , it's not really scary . there is a definite pallor of death throughout the movie . there is some suspense of sorts in the movie and fair amount of action , with some great fight scenes . the film also has it's lighter moments , with some amusing scenes . one knock i have against this movie , is that the beast is not what you might think . in fact it is kind of a disappointment when it is revealed . however , i do like the reason given for the killing rampage . i thought it was kind of unique . the movie is a France / Canada production , so you can watch it with English subtitles , or you can watch the dubbed version . i watched the dubbed version and was very impressed with the quality of that aspect . the dubbing is very good . as for the movie itself , it clocks in at 162 minutes , but i never found it boring . for me , " Pacte des loups , Le " , AKA " Brotherhood of the Wolf " is a
a much better movie than the first one	i have to say , i thought this movie was way better than the first one . i felt the there were more action sequences , and they were better done . i also thought this one was more fun . even though most of cast returned from the first one , i felt the acting was better here . maybe the 3 year wait between films really matured some of the actors skills . plus , i really liked the addition of William Peterson , and Alan Ruck . as well , i really liked the music in this one . beyond that , though , i just thought the story was better , and flowed much more smoothly . this is actually what the first movie should have been , in my view . for me , Young Guns II is a
i liked it ,	but not because it is funny . it isn't funny . but it is immensely entertaining . Sarah Silverman is a very talented story teller . most of the show is Sarah Doing stand up comedy , and most of it improv , i think . i also like how Sarah just flies by the seat of her pants , ( or at least appears to ) coming up with stuff on the fly . their is also a lot of free association and Sarah segues very easily from one topic into another . that is the true genius of Sarah Silverman . you never really know if if the material is all planned out in advance , or if Sarah just think this stuff up as she goes along . she is certainly vulgar and crude , and very politically incorrect . no topic or ethnicity is spared in this show , including Sarah'a own Jewish heritage . Sarah says whats on her mind , and isn't worried about what others think about her . i find that refreshing . but it is apparent that this is just her stage persona . an alter ego if you will . however , this show is not for everyone . many people will be offended by this type of material , and anyone in that category should avoid this DVD . for people who don't mind this type of material , you will probably be entertained , and you may even laugh . for me , Sarah Silverman : Jesus is Magic is a
above average for the genre	as far as horror movies go , this one isn't bad at all . in fact , it's pretty decent . i think one of the reasons is that it also liter in tone than most of the genre . in fact , i'd even goes as far as to say it's a horror / lite comedy . there are some good lines in here and some funny scenes which work well . the movie is also a bit of a guessing game , as there are a few possibilities as to who the killer is . and even at the end , there is a bit of ambiguity . but it works here . as far as the acting goes , i think it's certainly more than adequate for this genre . and the movie doesn't really over do it on the gross out factor . most of the deaths are not very graphic , which i didn't mind in this movie . also , the characters aren't your typical stupid people that usually populate theses kinds of movie . i also liked the music . it was refreshing for this genre . when you add it all up , i think Valentine is an above average movie for the genre . my vote :
light hearted teen sex romp circa 1956 , in small town U . S .	as teen sex comedies go , this one has a lot going for it . it is well written , good characterizations , humorous situations and a great 1950's soundtrack . as well , the actors were credible and the depiction of small town , Ohio , in 1956 seemed authentic . the humour wasn't so much the laugh out loud bust a gut variety , but more of the situational type . you also had to laugh at how people dressed and how they acted back then , also how repressed they were . it's almost absurd really . i really got a kick out of the fascination with James Dean . i don't get it , but it is amusing . there is some sexual situations in this movie and one full frontal female nudity shot , so if that offends you , this is not the movie foe you . for the rest of us , this is an enjoyable , ( if light ) entertaining diversion .
first season shows potential for the series	since i've only seen the first season , that's all i can comment on . based on this first season , i think the show has potential . it starts off slow but gradually picks up steam and becomes interesting . the ending of season one is was quite good and i eagerly await for season await the arrival of season 2 on DVD . there are some things i hope they do to improve the series . on is to add a bit more humour . the show tends to be dour and depressing at times . they could also make it a bit more exciting , not so much dialogue . otherwise i hope the network gives the show a chance and keeps it on the air . for me , Terminator : The Sarah Conner Chronicles is a
very powerful , moving , heart wrenching drama that is worth watching if you stick with it	i really wanted to hate this movie . in fact , i considered shutting it off more than a few times . the first thought i had was " talk about some fd up , moronic , dimwitted imbeciles . that seems to describe many of the characters in the movie . other than that we have a real a-hole , a woman who cares about nothing except money and her self . there is also , a bickering wife and the most sane person is the husband who barely says 2 more than 2 words most of the movie . however , i stuck with the movie , and i'm glad i did . many of the characters changed for the better somewhat before the movie ended . the movie is billed as part comedy , but it isn't really funny . it is very dramatic , very dialogue driven . it is also heart wrenching at times . i'll admit , i bawled and blubbered heavily towards the later stages of the film . Amy Adams blew me away with her performance , starting off as a simple country girl , who seems a bit dull , at first , but becomes really endearing as the movie progresses . this movie is very bleak in its tone and deals worth some very heavy issues . i am glad that i saw the movie through , even though i didn't get it all . i know i'm being very vague about the movie , but trying to describe it in depth is too difficult , as there is so much going on . it is a very complex movie . it is truly a unique viewing experience do recommend it , but be prepared to experience some strong emotions and shed some tears .
a pleasant surprise	i had no interest in seeing jar head . judging by all the previews , i thought it would be just another boring war movie , at best . however , my buddy had taped it so we decided to give it a try . after all , we had just sat through the train wreck that was silent hill , and it couldn't be any worse . turns out , it was quite a well done movie . its depiction of a company of marines and their lives , during dessert shield and dessert storm , was , i'm sure , an accurate portrayal of military life . giving this movie extra credence is that it is adapted from a novel by Anthony Swofford , who was himself a marine during both dessert shield and dessert storm . The book and the movie chronicle his experience during that time . and while the producers may have taken some dramatic liberty , i believe it does stick close to the facts . Jake Gyllenhall does well as the title character , and Jamie Foxx is very strong as Staff Sgt . Sykes his , commanding officer . Peter Sarsgarrd is also strong as Troy , a fellow marine and friend . and i can't forget Chris Cooper who has a small and memorable role as well , which he infuses with his usual brilliance . I believe the filmmakers did a good job depicting life as a marine waiting for action in Kuwait . the film is well paced , and tightly directed , with very few unnecessary scenes . there are also touches of humour injected into the film . for a movie of this genre , it is surprisingly lighthearted for the most part . it did not feel heavy handed at all , and did not have the cloud of depression hanging over it as most war themed movies do . it did have its dramatic moments of course , but these moments did not oppressively choke the film . all in all , a solid , entertaining piece of work .
not bad for a sequel	as sequels go , this is film isn't too bad . i didn't think ti was quite as good as the first one , but it's not a bad effort . i didn't find it as funny , and some of Steve Martin's histrionics are old and seem forced a bit too me . really , this one doesn't quite have the same sincerity as the first . through much of this movie , i was all too aware i was watching a movie , whereas with firs tone , i was drawn in , and less aware i was watching a movie with people acting . having said that , there are some bright spots . for , one , this movie is just as touching as the first . and Eugene levy has a great cameo . and there is still some fun to be had . even though this may seem too high a rating after much of what i said above , i still think Father of the Bride II is a
the best of the trilogy	in my opinion this is the best of the trilogy . i laughed out loud a few times in this one . but more than that , i just thought the story was better . there were some great lines delivered in this one , many courtesy of Bob Uecker , who played Harry Doyle , the goof ball play by play man . again there are some oddball characters with some strange rituals . i also thought the movie flowed more smoothly and it was better paced . there was also a love interest for one of the characters in this one , although admit it wasn't a substantial part of the movie . but at least there was one . as far as i can recall , there was no love interest of any consequence in the previous two . if i'm wrong , please tell me so . anyway , overall a pretty good movie . for me , " Major League 3 : Back to the Minors " is a
starts off slow , becomes interesting	starting off , i was not impressed with this reality series . the first episode starts off slower than molasses uphill in January . eventually it picks up . the second episode is much better , as we get into the action much quicker . the show is interesting , showing what the crab fishermen go through and how grueling it is . it also shows how dangerous it is . apparently there is an almost 100 percent injury rate and a very strong risk of death or permanent injury . it is obviously very dangerous . however , some of these crab fishermen could make enough money in weeks or less to live for an entire year . in any event the show is amusing , entertaining and sad all at once . i would give " Deadliest Catch : Crab Fishing in Alaska "
entertaining fast paced , odd couple buddy movie	i picked up this movie really cheap , and wasn't expecting too much . turns out , it's not half bad . yes , Jimmy Fallon's character is annoying at first , but he kinda grows on ya . once you get past that , the movie's all right haven't seen Queen Latifah in too many movies . in fact , i think the only movie i had seen her in previously was Bringing Down the House , which was a real dog , but that isn't her fault . the movie just simply sucked . in " Taxi " she actually has a movie to work with . i really liked her character , especially her sassyness . her and Fallon really work well off each other . they're definitely the odd couple but it works . there are a couple of pretty funny moments and some good lines , but i won't say the movie is hilarious . it is entertaining and exciting . it also the " babe " going for it . in other words - - hot chicks . put all that together and you have a pretty good movie . for me , " Taxi " is a
heart wrenching story	as this movie starts , a voice comes on as wells the words , saying that although his story is fictionalized , it is inspired by a true story . it's all bout how the medical community is unwilling to think outside the box when it comes to alternative treatments for sick people , that they don't approve of . one family learns this the hard way , when their young son is struck ill , and despite not getting better in hospital , the doctors want to continue to try treatments that don't work . this movie is heart wrenching at times , and frustrating . Meryl Streep and Fred Ward star as the parents who are running out of options for their son and are at their wits end . Streep and Ward both are great here . Allison Janney ( The West Wing ) also puts in a good performance . too be fair , not everyone in the medical establishment is unwilling to think out of the box , and the movie shows this as well . for me , First do no Harm is a
not to be confused with the " Anatomy " horror movies	i liked this movie . it's about first year medical students and what they go through . it focuses specifically on a small group of five in particular . it's a drama more than anything . it the first half of the movie is pretty light in tone , but the second half is much more serious in tone . in fact , there are two heartbreaking scenes in the second half , which got me pretty emotional . but that's just me . this is a very much a character and story driven movie and it succeeds , in my mind , at least mostly . the acting is pretty good . Matthew Modine , Daphne Zuniga and Christine are the main actors . all are likable characters , in their own way . . overall , well written , well acted movie . not great , but pretty good . for me , " Gross Anatomy " is an
decent superhero film , though not of the epic scale	this movie was certainly entertaining , although it felt a bit incomplete somehow . it is certainly not a movie you would call epic , by any means . it is much more low key than your typical blockbuster movie , i . e the Spider Man or X-Men series . i believe the filmmakers were going for blockbuster status , but the film did not reach that level . from both a critical and artistic standpoint , this movie was received lukewarmly at best ( although some critics and fans praised it . ) one of the problems is that the story could have been developed better . the filmmakers focused more on style than substance . the special effects were pretty decent , although at times they were a little hokey . this is probably due to the relatively low budget of 80 million dollars . also some of the dialogue was cringe worthy at times . however , the acting was solid , their was plenty of action and the film was not boring . However , like i said , the story was sacrificed for style . there is a sequel in the works . let's hope it's more fleshed out . as for this film , despite a few flaws , it was relatively well made . this film gets a strong
great fight sequences and screen presence of Brandon Lee elevate this movie	i watched this movie years ago , and thought it was nothing short of astonishing . i guess our tastes change as we grow older . don't get me wrong , i still think it's a fairly decent movie . the problem is , many movies of this genre could be considered fairly decent . ( and many would not be ) there are 2 things which set this movie apart from some in the genre . 1 is the fantastic and spectacular fight scenes . the other is the screen presence and charisma of the late Brandon Lee . without these 2 elements , i think this movie would be slightly above average . as a matter of fact , i was bored at times and thought the movie dragged . as it is , however " Rapid Fire " gets 3 . 5 stars from me .
funny and colourful	this is a pretty decent cg animated movie from Nickelodeon . it's funny at times , has quite a bit of action and a mostly interest sustaining story . it's obviously geared towards kids , but adults will laugh at some of the jokes . it does have a few slow moments , but mostly it's pretty well paced . some of the character are a bit creepy looking , especially the teacher . but there's nothing that could be considered offensive . it's also very colourful , so the kids will love that aspect of it . most adults will be able watch it without falling asleep , but if not , the kids are perfectly safe watching it on their own . for me , Jimmy Neutron : Boy Genius is a
pretty decent John Candy film	while i don't think this is the best John Candy movie made , it is still pretty good . i guess it's considered a classic by now , being over 20 years old , and i think it deserves that status . it certainly has its funny moments . and John Candy is just so likable , how could you not like him . Dan Akroyd is also in the movie and he does good in his role . it's a quality family movie , but there is a bit of mild language and implied sexual innuendo . still , i don't think it's anything the whole family couldn't watch , except maybe really young kids . there is a lot of improvisation going on in this movie , which i really liked . the only negative thing i can say about this movie is that it takes a bit of time to get going . other than that that , it's a pretty good offering .
i thought it was eerier and had more a sense of urgency than the original ( but that's just me )	in my mind , this sequel to the original " When a Stranger Calls " ( 1979 ) is actually a better movie . i thought the story was better , with a better , much creepier and more intelligent villain . Carol Kane reprises her role from the original , and i actually thought she did a convincing job in this 1 . i think that's because she plays an adult , and not a teenager . there are some interesting twists and the villain has more dimension . the overall look and feel of the film is much eerier than the original . to me , there is more of a sense of danger and distress . i have to admit the hairs on my neck stood up more than a few times . there is 1 real nail biting scene which kept me on the edge of my seat . for other recommendations , check out the review i did on the original . as for " When a Stranger Calls Back " , i give it
teenage girls make a random prank call to the wrong guy	i really enjoyed this movie . it is a remake of a 1965 film , starring Joan Crawford . I haven't seen the original , so i can't compare the two . However as a stand alone film , it is surprisingly entertaining . the premise : two bored teenage girls decide to make random prank calls , saying " I saw what you did , and i know who you are " , just to see what kind of reactions they can get . all harmless fun , of course , until they call Adrian , an emotionally unhinged man , who has just murdered his girlfriend . you can guess the rest . the movie is predictable of course , but is entertaining . the two leads , Shawnee Smith , and Tammy Lauren are well played and it is easy to get into the movie . not a lot of suspense , well , no more or less than other movies of the genre . The one disappointing thing is that Candace Cameron is billed as the star of the film . Don't believe it . she has a small role as the young sister of one of the teens . i get the feeling that Shawnee Smith was being groomed to become a big star . That didn't exactly happen , and i'm not sure why . However , she has made comeback of sorts with the " Saw " franchise . anyway . . . i'm kind of mystified that the original version of this movie has been released , but not this version . This is better than most films of the genre , i think maybe due to the performances . i give it
pretty decent thriller	this turned out to be a pretty good thriller . i say turned out because it starts off slow and takes awhile to build up some steam . but once it gains momentum it maintains it throughout . there isn't a lot of suspense here , but the movie makes up for it in thrills . there are some pulse pounding moments that had me on the edge of my seat . there are also some pretty graphic scenes , and some sudden , shocking moments , as well as a fair amount of coarse language . there are some good actors in this one , including William ( TV's CSI ) Petersen , Reese ( the Legally Blond movies , Walk the Line ) Witherspoon , Alyssa ( the TV series Charmed ) Milano , Amy ( TV's Judging Amy ) Brenneman and Mark ( Shooter , The Departed ) Wahlberg . there's also some good character development as well . all in all , like i said , a pretty good thriller . for me , Fear is a .
not as good as Dracula 2000 , but not bad ( )	this is a sequel to Dracula 2000 , but not completely . it's still about Dracula , but it begins shortly after the first one ended . the thing is , spoiler ahead it ignores the ending of 2000 . if you paid attention to the very end of that film , you'll realize that the events in this one couldn't happen the way they do . end of spoileroh , well , that's life . it still has the same biblical bent to it . but this one lacks many of the things 2000 had . gone is Gerard Butler as the title character , a fairly big loss , in my opinion . this Dracula ( the character ) is not as compelling , nor did i feel he was seductive or charming . gone is also the visual style of 2000 . there's also no macabre humour here . nor is there much action . what is added is some overacting by many of the cast involved . While i don't have anything against Jason Scott Lee , i feel he was trying way too hard to make the character serious . minor spoileroh , and if you're expecting to see Roy Schieder ( he is billed as being one of the stars of the movie ) then you better not blink , or you'll miss him . overall , this entry is not as fun as Dracula 2000 , but i still thought it was OK . For me , Dracula II : Ascension is a
a fun movie , undeserving of all the harsh criticism	i don't understand why so many people hated or disliked the movie catwoman . i thought it was a fun movie to watch . the acting was pretty good . i liked the villain . there was lots of action and i loved the music . also , Halley berry is very sexy and looked great in the catwoman costume . i liked the mysticism involving cats . i thought that was unique . i also like the fact that instead of the usual male villain , we have a strong female villain , played by sharon stone . she did a good job in the role , i thought . i liked how catwoman was self conflicted about being evil versus being good and the suduction it held . i bought this movie and have watched it more than once . i enjoyed it and will watch it again . i just wish people would lighten up . 6 & out 10
a pretty good John Wayne picture	i thought his was a pretty good John Wayne film . sure , a lot of the movie is typical of most westerns in many ways , but in other ways , it isn't . for example , i thought the story was a bit more fleshed out and interesting , and there is an air of unpredictability to it . there is not as much action as many of Wayne's films , but there is enough to satisfy . of course , there is some humour involved , and just like many westerns , there's a mix of odd characters , which i liked . this is not an epic film , by any means , but it's not supposed to be . the movie kept me interested right to the end , and when it was over , i felt satisfied . for me , Tall in The saddle is a
solid nail biting suspense flick with above average action sequences	i had watched " Executive Decision " maybe 5 years ago and i remember enjoying it then . however , i was more impressed this time . Kurt Russel does a good job as on of the heroes of the piece . a great supporting cast surrounds Russel . Halle Berry is very convincing in her role . Steven Seagal makes an appearance , giving another one of his usual wooden performances . thankfully he is not the star of the movie . there are some great action sequences , but the film's focal point is more one of dramatic suspense . and there are some nail biting moments . these are handled very well by both the director and the actors . The bad guys are well represented , all giving fine performances . The main villain is played by brilliant actor David Suchet , who really inhabits his character . you really hate this guy . There is not a lot of character development , but that does not detract from the quality of the film . the script is very tightly written , which helps to overcome the very unlikelihood of the plot . the only other minor complaint i have is that in some of the flying scenes , it is apparent that the scenes are simulated . but this is a minor issue . overall an above average suspense / action flick
more fun the the first one	i thought this movie was better than the first one . there is a bit more going on in this one , and kids will love the sometimes chaotic atmosphere . there i some very hysterical moments here that adults will no doubt enjoy . there are some references that only adults will understand , and there is some rude humour that kids will love . the gist of the story is that Garfield has an exact lookalike , who just happens to be a a royal Prince in London . the cat's name is Prince , naturally , anyway , hilarity ensues through mistaken identity . i won't say anymore about the plot . you'll have to watch it too find out the hows and whys . there is also a lesson in this movie about teamwork . the cast is quite a bit larger for this one . there are more animals , and a few more human characters , as well . Bill Murray returns as the voice of Garfield , and Tim Curry voices his British counterpart , with great effect . Breckin Meyer returns as Garfield's owner , John , And Jennifer Love Hewitt returns as his romantic interest . all tolled , this movie beats it's predecessor in all areas . for me , Garfield : a Tale of Two Kitties is a
we have lift-off	i must say , this movie is much better than i had anticipated . first off , i am not a fan of Sarah Jessica parker at all . She usually just annoys me . However , she is okay in this movie . She does a good job with her character . Anyway , the basic premise of the story is this : Tripp ( Matthew McConaughey ) is 35 years old and still living at home . His Parents Al ( Terry Bradshaw ) and Sue ( Kathy Bates ) want him to get out on his own and leave the nest . They find a woman named Paula ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) who specializes in getting men who still live at home to move out . they hire her to do just that . Of course things don't quite work out that way . Parker really comes across as sincere and genuine in her role , and even displays some good comic timing , which is a pleasant surprise . McConaughey also handles his role well , in both the dramatic and comedic scenes . the supporting performances ate also strong . Zooey Deschanel ( Almost Famous , Elf ) provides some comic relief as Paula's'bitter , somewhat boozy roommate . Bradley Cooper ( Wedding Crashers , TV series Alias ) , plays one of Tripp's best friend " Demo " while Justin Bartha ( " National Treasure , and its upcoming sequel ) Plays " Ace " another friend . Both also live at home with the parents . Patton Oswalt ( " Blade : Trinity " , " Reno 911 ) plays the role of the techie guy . Tripp's mother Sue ( Bates - " About Schmidt " , " Misery " is wonderful as the mother who is torn about her son leaving . Terry Bradshaw ( former Pittsburgh Steelers star Quarterback ) is brilliant as the Father who can't wait for his son to leave , and has one particularly hilarious moment that must be seen to be believed . and Rob Corddry has an absolutely riotous cameo . i like the original premise behind the movie . however , inevitably the movie follows the formulaic romantic comedy route and does become maudlin at times . the ending , though predictable , is not realistic and is something that would only happen in a movie . However , on the whole , the movie is quite good , due mainly to the performances . i won't say it is excellent but it is as good as most in the genre . and well worth the time and money .
good show of the supernatural genre	i really wish Point Pleasant had been given more of a chance to find an audience . while i do believe it was a bit slow for the first few episodes , i think it picked up considerably as it went along . and the last four or five episodes especially , i found quite compelling and fraught with tension . the last episode was a real nail biter of a cliffhanger ending ( if that makes any sense , and if the show had picked up from that point , i think it would have found an audience . as it is , it only lasted 13 episodes . one minor annoyance for me , was that i felt the acting was not always as good as i'd hoped , but that too improved as the series went along . all in all , i found it worth watching and would recommend it to others .
i didn't like it as much as the first one , but . . .	( this comment refers to the unrated version of the film ) i thought it was still an entertaining movie . there are a few pretty creative kills which are pretty gory . but overall i thought the gore factor was a lot less in this one . so if you're a hard core gore hound , this movie might not satisfy you . i didn't really care for the acting that much , but i've seen worse . i also felt that most of the characters were stereotypical for the genre . and for me , the storyline wasn't very good . it felt too contrived to me . however , i did like the explanation they gave for the root of the evil . i thought it was inventive . there is some nudity in this movie , most of which i felt was not necessary and had nothing to do with the story . it could have been used as filler , to pad the film's short running time . this film also lacked the high tension of the first one . in fact , i didn't really think the film had much atmosphere . the ending to the movie was pretty typical , in my mind . but still , like i said , i felt it was entertaining and had a bit of creativity . this is just my opinion of course , but my vote for Return to House on Haunted Hill is a
good animated movie ( but too dark for young kids )	this animated movie from Nickelodeon stars the Thornberry family , who originated from a cartoon series ) in their first movie . i liked this movie . it's got some catchy music and lots of action . it's too dark for little kids due to certain themes . there are some scenes of peril and loss . it's not really a funny movie . it's more of an action adventure . it reminded me a little bit of the Lion King . the movie also deals with some good themes such as family and love . of course things end on a happy note . if you're an adult , there should be enough here to keep you entertained , and older kids will no doubt enjoy it . for me , The Wild Thornberrys movie is a
a darker , more realistic version of the Punisher	this version of the Punisher is much different than the 2004 version . for one thing it is much darker , and probably more faithful to the comic book version . the pacing is very deliberate in this one , creating more atmosphere . there are some very good fight scenes in this movie . the biggest difference is the protagonist , which is much more deadly in this one and a worthy adversary for the Punisher . Dolph Lundgren plays the role in this incarnation and is much more imposing , with better physical presence . this is mainly due to his size . he definitely would inspire fear in the criminal element . Lundgren is not really a great actor , but he doesn't need to be for this role . overall , this a good movie , more subdued than the 2004 version . there is more physical action , but very little of things blowing up , which works in this film's favor . a strong
much darker than Raiders	i enjoyed this prequel to Raiders of the Lost Ark , but not quite as much . it's not as action packed , but there still some impressive action sequences , most of which take place during th last 40 minutes or so . and there are some great death defying moments , as well . there's much more tension throughout than in Raiders . as well there are more comic bits in this one , which is good because the overall tone of the movie is pretty dark , dealing with mysticism and superstition . this installment is a bit slower , but not boring . and i liked the story more . it's a bit more developed . Indy gets too sidekicks in this one , a young Asian boy and a Nightclub singer , which provide much of the comic relief . when you add everything up , it's still a pretty gun time .
fairly amusing black comedy which could have been better ( which is where the sequel comes in )	this movie is not too bad . it's a black comedy that is entertaining and certainly amusing . without giving it away , Bernie is a rich guy , who ends up dead , yet still manages to be the life of the party , literally , thanks to two best friends ( Andrew McCarthy , Jonathon Silverman ) who also work or rather - - worked for Bernie . i won't sat any more about the plot . if you want to know more , you'll have to watch the movie to find out . being a black comedy , the movie is entertaining and quite amusing at times , though not drop dead funny . ( sorry , i couldn't resist ) this is of course the point in this type of movie , to be wryly amusing and even ironic at times . i liked it quite a bit , though it could have been better , given the premise . there is so much rich material they could have mined , in my opinion . and while it doesn't quite reach its potential , it's still worth watching . Both McCarthy and Silverman are good in the roles as sort of an " Odd Couple " type . Richard ( Silverman ) is more strait laced and conservative , while Larry ( McCarthy ) is a slacker interested in having fun , more than anything else . Catherine Mary Stewart is very good in her supporting role . i only wish she had a larger role . but it is very clear she is very talented . however it is Terry Kiser as Bernie , who steals the show . who knew a dead guy could be so amusing . all in all , a good , not great movie . it spawned a sequel , which is much better , in my opinion . if you like this movie , i highly recommend part 2 . as for this movie , I'd give it a .
nearly perfect movie . . . just one major flaw	i finally got around to watching " Carrie " . while it was worth the wait , i was a little disappointed . the first two thirds of the movie are very well done . it is very easy to sympathize with " Carrie " , given the evil witch ( Piper Laurie in a brilliant performance ) she has for a mother . Carrie ( Sissy Spacek in an equally greet performance ) is an awkward outsider who has been sheltered from life and does not fit in . she is frequently the target of mercilessly cruel verbal abuse and torment from her classmates . but Carrie has a secret . she has the ability to move objects with her mind . this ability could have been explored and developed more in the story . however , now we come to the last act of the film . after a particularly cruel prank ( having a bucket of Pig's blood dumped all over her at the prom ) , Carrie exacts her revenge-sort of . and herein lies the one major problem with film . given her obvious humiliation and anger , you expect the cruel mongers would get their just rewards for what they have done . yet the revenge that Carrie exacts is much less than what these wretches deserve and is anti climatic . her so called mother also deserves a much worse fate than she receives , as well . although the destruction of the house and its being swallowed up by the earth does imply that she gets her just reward in hell . the only problem is that Carrie is with her and hardly deserves the same fate . there is however much more that is positive about this film than negative . the brilliant performances from the two leads , as mentioned , and the very well executed direction , which provides many moments of tension and suspense . the most important aspect of this film , however is the brilliant score by Pino Donagio , which elevates this movie to a whole new level . so , how to rate this film . only one flaw , although a major one . stars seems fair for this movie
better than the previous year's similarly themed entry ( )	Darkness Falls follows a somewhat similar plot line as the previous year's entry in the genre , They , with a few differences . One , Darkness Falls has a fairly well fleshed out back story . Two , the acting is generally fairly good . three , the monster has a reason for being , a motivation for its actions . also , the monster has a weakness , which can be exploited . the core storyline is descent for this genre . the movie is better paced and much better edited . the monster itself is however , not so great . the look of the creature isn't the problem . the problem are its movements , which do not look authentic in some scenes . now , the characters themselves - - very little in the form of character development . pretty much your stock horror characters . none too bright and reacting in ways which real people ( hopefully ) would not . yet , strangely likable somehow . you kind of take pity on them . suspense - - there were some tense moments . there was a fair amount of action . however , at times the film became chaotic - - lots of sounds and sights all at once , including the music . the purpose , to pretend to entertain the viewer , well hiding the movie's shortcomings . in essence disguising the fact that the movie isn't achieving its intended purpose . in this case , frightening the viewer or at least heightening his or her anxiety . and now the ending . it does nicely resolve things . no cheap setup for a sequel here . i think it's a better movie than They . is it a good movie ? yes . it has some tense moments with a few decent action sequences and a decent , straightforward ending without the usual unexpected ( but really expected ) ) twist . for me , Darkness Falls is a
pretty decent thriller	i thought is movie was pretty decent . in fact , better than i had expected . i don't think i'm giving anything away here by saying that the title refers to a major event that is seen from the point of view of several characters in the film . that's what sets this movie apart from others in the genre of action / thriller / drama . the one complaint i do have is that i felt the acting was mostly a bit flat , especially from Dennis Quaid , and to a lesser extent , Matthew Fox . that's unfortunate , since they are the two main characters . other than that , though , there are some pretty exciting moments , and a twist ending i didn't see coming . for me , Vantage point is a solid
part 2 of 2	this second of a two part episode is much better than the first part . for one thing , the story is more fleshed out , which i guess makes sense , since it is the 2nd part . for another , it isn't just the Flash and Green Lantern this time around . some other Justice League members pitch in to lend a hand . unfortunately there is one very importance member missing from this episode . i also wasn't bothered by the voice acting this time around . mostly because there is enough going on to distract from that aspect . this part is not as fast paced as the first one , but i still liked the episode a lot more . it put things into context , so things made more sense . just like in the first part , there is some humour , which i liked . i also really liked the ending . for me , this episode is overall much better and more enjoyable . my vote for Justice League : The brave and the Bold :
entertaining action movie	this movie is about a man who ends up being principal of one of the worst schools in the country . the school is pretty much run by a drug lord / gang banger and his cronies . the teachers have given up hope on the kids and stopped teaching them . Rick Latimer ( James Belushi ) is Latimer , who finds himself in over his head , but won't quit . this is more of an action movie than an inspirational one . it's sorta like The Substitute and other similar movies . i don't think there's any real deep message here . and maybe that wasn't the intent of the filmmakers . maybe they just set out to making an entertaining action movie . if so , they succeeded . i found it entertaining . for me , The Principal is a
pre - cursor to Fatal attraction	In " play Misty for Me , Clint Eastwood plays Dave , a disc jockey at a local radio station who has a fan . but not just any fan . obsessed female fan named Evelyn ( Jessica Walter ) . Dave and Evelyn have a one night stand . Before Dave knows she is an obsessed fan ) but Evelyn decides that is not enough . she ingratiate herself into Dave's life and decide they are going to be together . except that Dave already has a woman in his life-Tobie ( Donna MIlls ) naturally , Evelyn finds out and being the unbalanced person she is , decides to remedy the situation . you probably have a good idea what happens from here . if you want to know more , watch the movie . this movie is Eastwood's Directorial Debut . it is a psychological horror , suspense film . The movie is dated , being over 25 years old , and many movies have copied the formula since . ( crazed nut bar becomes obsessed with someone ) it is still worth a watch however and is entertaining .
well done cautionary tale ( AKCreated to Kill )	i really enjoyed this movie . i thought the acting was very good , and the storyline well developed . i'm sure the movie was inspired by past literary works and movies , but i think it also inspired other movies and novels . so , obviously it's not wholly original , but it does have its own original elements to it . it's a cautionary tale for sure and it's just as relevant today , probably more so . the only negative thing i can say about it is that it can be a bit slow , and the first half has an almost clinical feel to it . by this i mean at times it's a bit dry and almost too scientific . overall , though i think it was a well done movie . i give Embryo a
surprisingly good	surprisingly , very surprisingly , i didn't mind this movie at all . it was certainly head and shoulders above number two , and quite a bit better than the first one . this one had a somewhat developed storyline , with pretty decent acting . the villainous is stronger and much more developed in this one . she is certainly more sinister , if that's the right word . but i also noticed some humour in this one , which the first two didn't have , in my recollection . there is of course , no lack of nudity in this one , but i think it served a bit more of a purpose . it still at times seemed like a soft core porn flick , but at least it had other dimensions to it . and as an added bonus , ( especially if you're a guy ) it had Jamie Pressly in a prominent role . anyway , for an entertaining 90 minutes , i think you could do a lot worse than the third installment in the Poison Ivy series . my vote for Poison Ivy : The New Seduction :
typical ' serial killer taunts police ' movie , ( with a bit of a twist ) but entertaining with decent performances	this would be your typical ' serial killer taunts police'movie except for one small detail . the audience is let in on the identity of the killer pretty much right off the bat . i think this has been done before , so it's not wholly original , but it's still a bit of a change from most of the genre . the way in which the killer selects his victims might be original , but i'm not completely sure . you might think revealing the killer to the viewer very early on would have a negative impact , but it doesn't seem to . anyway , the remainder of the movie consists of the police trying to find out the killer's identity and stop him . we are given bit of background on why he ends up the way he is and it seems plausible , which is nice for a change . Judd Nelson plays the killer and is credible . there are also touches of humour throughout . the movie moves along at a good clip until the ending . the ending is telegraphed throughout the movie , very deliberately , i think , so it won't come as a very big surprise . anyway , i liked the movie . it's not outstanding but it is entertaining and worth the 90 minutes or so of time .
zombie scarecrows terrorize and slaughter small military group in cornfield	This film is a fairly decent suspense / horror flick . it certainly has positive points and some negative . let's start with the positive . first off the premise in inventive , zombie scarecrow in a corn field , killing people ( in this case a small group of soldiers who have stolen over 3 million dollars from their military base and taken refuge in a house surrounded by a cornfield . ) the music was excellent for this film , really upping the ante for eeriness . the prosthetics and makeup effects were surprisingly well done . the death scenes were realistic and there was some gore , but not overdone . the closeup shots of the scarecrows breathing in and out while on their crosses added a bit to the creepiness factor . and i liked the end sequence , again closeup shots of the scarecrows , again ganging on their crosses . now for the negatives . one , the acting wasn't entirely convincing , though I've seen worse . the film was fairly effective for the first 2 acts , but it does descend into camp territory in the last act . this sort of diminishes its effect somewhat . and the other problem with the movie ( and this really bothered me ) was the stupidity of the dog in one of the latter scenes . the girl is flying the plane away , and she gets attacked by a scarecrow and the dog just sit there watching it happen . talk about stupid . anyway , when you add it all up , id have to say the positive aspects slightly outweighed the negatives . the film was entertaining and had some tense moments . as a result , this film gets a
not too bad , all things considered	i think this movie was pretty decent . how accurate it is , i have no idea . however , judged strictly on its merits , it's a pretty compelling and engaging movie . i really cared about the characters and the things they had to deal with . it's almost heartbreaking at times , and i did find it hard to watch . but it's also touching . the actors are all very convincing . i thought all their performances were pretty natural . it is also suspenseful and well paced . and you never really know for sure how it will turn out . the movie is " Based on a true story , so i guess if you know the background of the real people involved , you know how it will end . i knew nothing of the story before watching the movie . so i just waited as events unfolded . strictly speaking of the movie as a form of entertainment , i think it does a pretty decent job . i realize that it may be hard for some people to judge this movie as a form of entertainment , and that's certainly understandable and fair . for me though , Not Without my Daughter is about a
a movie about a serial killer ( i liked it )	i liked this movie . i think Teri Polo is a good dramatic actress , at least judging by this movie . many people probably know her from the comedy " Meet the Parents " and its sequel " Meet the Fockers " . she was good in those movies and she is equally talented in the dramatic arena . i won't say too much about the plot except it involves a serial killer . only 3 people have commented in total so far , and 2 of them clearly did not like it . everybody has their own opinions and ideas on what they consider a good movie . in my mind , this is a good movie . there's mystery , suspense and good acting . as for originality , most movies made today are not completely original so i don't think that should go against this movie . if you are looking to be entertained , this movie might work for you . or not . either way , as i said , liked it . i also have noticed Teri Polo's name in a few other dramatic movies and i think i will try some of them based on her performance in this movie . i think " Legacy of Fear " is a strong
well written , with good performances	i found this movie very entertaining it's a very well written , witty romantic comedy , with bit of a twist . the two romantic leads are women . this premise has been done before , with the same supporting character types that usually populate this genre . but the performances are what breath new life into this movie , plus the the characters are all likable , which certainly helps . there are no drop dead funny moments , but there a lot of amusing scenes . the movie is also well paced . however , it's not for everyone . in fact some may find it offensive , due to the subject matter , as well as some strong adult language . but if you go in with an open mind , you should enjoy yourself for 90 minutes or so . for me , Kissing Jessica Stein is a
pretty decent , though not really a horror movie , more suspense than anything	i didn't mind this movie . it's no classic or anything but in my opinion , it is worth watching . the acting is surprisingly good for this genre . the killer is pretty wacko . the 2 main cops are kind of humorous at times . this movie did not feel like a horror movie to me . it wasn't really graphic enough for that designation , in my opinion . but it was a good suspense movie . it's a lot better than many movies of the genre and certainly was well worth my time . it won't win any awards for originality ( even for being made in 1980 ) but what horror movie would ? i wouldn't call it a classic , though it may have that designation from some critics and viewers . one thing i will say , and I'm not sure if this is a spoiler but the movie has nothing to do with the title . for me , " Don't Answer the Phone " is a
i don't agree with the low rating of	this movie surprised me . i found it better than i expected . i thought it would be pretty lame , instead , its not too bad . i found the story interesting and well paced , for the most part . the acting was adequate for this type of movie . but i didn't like everything about the movie . i found some of the characters , ( mainly the villains ) too stereotypical for my tastes . that annoyed me a bit . that and some of the dialogue was stereotypical and clichd . as for the creature itself , i thought it looked pretty impressive at times , and fairly unrealistic and cheap at others . one observation i have is that from an Echo Bridge co-production , this movie was more graphic than any of the others i have seen . anyway , i thought there were more positives than negatives , and i was entertained . for me , Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep is a
a what if ? movie examining the death of George Reeves ( TV ' Superman of the 50's )	the basic premise of this movie is as as follows . In 1959 , freelance investigator Louis Simo ( Adrien Brody ) investigates the death of Goerge reeves , who played Superman on TV . through flashbacks , we meet Reeves ( Ben Affleck ) years before his Death and before he would play superman . We are also introduced to others who played a role in Reeves life ( and later , possibly his death ) the film is based on actual events , but that is as far as it goes . the filmmakers offer several different possibilities regarding Reeves's Death , but do not favour any one scenario . the ending of the film is ambiguous , letting the viewer form their own opinions . there are some high profile names in this film , including Bob Hoskins and Diane Lane . the very talented Robin Tunney also plays a role in the movie . this movie is not meant to be a conspiracy theory , but more as entertainment , a sort of what if ? . i enjoyed the movie , though it is a bit slow at times . Hollywoodland is rated R for strong language , violence and sexual content .
Classic Arnie flick	In the Running Man , Arnold Schwarzenegger play a man framed and wrongly convicted of a crime in the future . His sentence : being a contestant on a brutal reality TV show where the inmates face overwhelming odds to stay alive against their opponents , who are armed and also well protected from head to toe . the game is basically rigged in favour of their opponents . thus far no convict has ever made it out alive . but of course Arnie plays no ordinary inmate . this reality TV show makes what passes for reality TV today look like Mister Rogers . anyway , the film is filled with terrific action sequences , some wit courtesy of some classic Arnie one liners . there are also some suspenseful moments , and some terrific death scenes . the acting may not be stellar , but hey , it's Arnie , so who needs good acting . overall , a very well paced , entertaining piece of work .
pretty decent entry	as Star Trek movies go , this is a pretty good one . i'd say it's almost as good as the previous entry The Undiscovered Country . i say almost because there are some moments where i felt it dragged and lost momentum . other than that , though , i didn't really have any issues with it . it thought the story line was quite unique and original . the writing is pretty good , and the action scenes are decent . the acting was also pretty good . the only other thing lacking is a an actual threat of some sort . i mean there is one , but the focus is not really on that . but this movie didn't seem to need that . it works without it . i give Star Trek : Generations a .
Evolution or Intelligent Design	i found this documentary interesting think it is balanced and shows both sides of the issue . Intelligent design proponents as well as evolutionary proponents are interviewed . some of the things they talk about are a bit of a stretch , i think . plus , i wish they had injected a bit of humour and made things a bit lighter to lighten the mood . also the documentary is very sobering , and even sad at times . but no matter what side of the fence you are on , you might find this documentary of interest , maybe even informative , though some of the interviews may have been edited and / or taken out of context , ( like any documentary ) so you really have to be careful . for those of you on the fence about this issue , this documentary could lead you to do your own research and come to your own conclusions . as interesting as this documentary was , i can't use the word entertaining to describe it because it was so serious and dour . nevertheless , it was worth watching . for me , Expelled : NO intelligence Allowed is a
who's the man ?	just finished watching " The Man " with Samuel . L Jackson and Eugene Levy . not a bad offering . it's sort of in the vein of " 48 hours " . now i'm not equating the 2 movies with each other , though i do seem to recall being less than impressed with " 48 hours . i did however find " the Man " entertaining from beginning to end , from both a dramatic viewpoint and a comedic one . the 2 stars are both very gifted actors , so it was good to see them in action . admittedly , the film was kind of light in tone ( it could have had been a bit more substantial ) and very short in its running time . however , for what it was , it worked very well . i do have one small complaint dough and that is that the movie did seem a bit mean spirited in the beginning . not sure why that would bother me , since i would usually not complain about something like that . ( it'a petty complaint , i'll admit ) maybe i'm becoming someone who gets offended easily . in my ripe old age of 36 . I hope not . anyway , i soon forgot about that and enjoyed the movie . a strong out of 10
Chuck Norris in an effective supernatural thriller	this is a good , effective supernatural thriller with some light comedic elements combined . it is quite spooky and eerie . the basic outline is that 2 Chicago cops , Frank Shatter ( Norris ) and his partner Calvin Levels ( Calvin Jackson ) end up in Jerusalem ( you'll have to watch the movie ) as past of a routine murder investigation that is anything but routine . in fact , the fate of the world may depend on them . Norris and Jackson have good chemistry as the 2 partners and work well off each other . the partners have differing opinions on just about everything , which provides some amusing moments . i like the idea of Chuck going up against someone who may not be easy to defeat . i thought the movie was very entertaining and Chuck was convincing in his role as was Jackson . Sheree J . Wilson also plays a pivotal role in the film . Christopher Neame puts in an outstanding performance as the villain . Overall , a better than average movie . worth watching . a strong
not your typical love story ,	and i mean that in a good way . for one thing , the story isn't contrived like so many others of the genre . also it's not overly sentimental or sappy . you really believe these two people could fall in love . also the way they fell in love was realistic . Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep really do come across as genuine , playing two lonely people who meet through fate . but there's only one small hitch : they're both married . the movie is not fast paced , so if that's what you're expecting , you'll be disappointed . instead , it's an honest , unconventional love story that takes some time for the relationship to develop between the two central characters . Dianne Wiest has a small role , and is almost unrecognizable . it's nice to see Harvey Kietel in an everyman kind of role , as well as Jane Kaczmarek ( Malcolm in the Middle ) . but it's really Streep and DE Niro who make the movie what it is . if their portrayals were not authentic or honest , the film would not work . for me , Falling in Love is a
good movie , but not as good as the trailer made it out to be	i initially had no interest in seeing this movie . then , one day , i happened to catch a trailer for it . the trailer made the movie look fantastic , so my friend and i watched it on pay per view . i have to say , i'm disappointed . don't get me wrong , this is still a good movie , but i don't feel it's the masterpiece it was mad out to be . for one thing , i found it too formulaic and predictable . there is of course a moral dilemma for one of our characters . stylistically , it reminded me of both The Departed and Mystic River , which isn't a bad thing in this case . it's just an observation . the acting is very good , in this movie , Casey Affleck holds his own against Morgan Freeman , who is brilliant as usual , though his role is not that big . for me , Gone Baby Gone is a
a skillful blend of comedy / drama / politics / thriller / crime drama ( and Burt Reynolds in a brilliant comic turn )	the movie Striptease is a combination crime drama / comedy / thriller . with a bit of political humour thrown in . it manages to balance all of these elements well , and as a result is very entertaining . Demi Moore gets top billing here and is very convincing as Erin Grant a woman who loses custody of her daughter to her small time thug husband ( played with great relish by Robert Patrick ) . In order to obtain the money to appeal the verdict she resorts to being an exotic dancer at a strip club . There are a few well known names in this movie , but It is Burt Reynolds who steals the show . Reynolds Plays Congressman David Dilbeck , who happens to be in the audience ( incognito , of course ) and falls head over heals in love ? with Erin . Congressman Dilbeck also happens to be a full time horn dog , so comedy ensues . But there is one scene in particular where Dilbeck is scheduled to appear before a youth Christian conference and is late . the reason he is late is absolutely hysterical . I won't give any more away , except to say watch this movie . You will enjoy it . out of 10
Mel Gibson , Danny GloverJoe Pesci , Rene Russo , Chris Rock , and Jet Li	out of all four movies in the series , this is probably the loudest and most chaotic , but that doesn't mean it was a bad movie . i think the storyline was a bit thin and not really all that original , but just like in part three , the action , and the chemistry of the stars makes up for that . and this movie also has more laughs than the previous installments , many courtesy of both Joe Pesci and Chris Rock . Rene Russo is back , along with Mel and Danny . Jet Li joins the proceedings in this one , and brings some spectacular fight scenes courtesy of his martial arts skill . i don't know if this is the best of the series , but i thought it was as good as number three , which i really liked . for me , Lethal Weapon 4 is a
entertaining ( )	well , i liked the movie . the story was interesting , and the action scenes were good . the voice acting fit well with the characters . i gotta say though , that , i never laughed once . maybe it's just me , or maybe you have to be in a certain mood . still , i thought it was a good movie . it moves along at a good pace , and it's certainly never boring . it reminded me of the movie Beverly Hills Ninja , starring Chris Farley from 1997 . the main character is pretty much the same type of character , except in that one , our hero is a human being , and in this one , of course , he's a panda . the other difference is i actually found Beverly Hills Ninja pretty funny . but that's neither here nor there . as for Kung Fu Panda , i was entertained throughout . i just didn't laugh . for me Kung Fu Panda is a
not too bad , but not that faithful to the comic version of events	as an animated movie , this one isn't too bad . i liked the story and the great action sequences and there are some great fight scenes . but if you're really into the history behind the battle between Superman and Doomsday and the aftermath ( in other words , if you've read the comic version of the events ) you might be disappointed , as i don't think it is that faithful to the source material . but beyond that , the movie does seem a little rushed . i think they may have tried to jam too much into the short 75 minute running time . still , the movie is entertaining . you shouldn't get bored watching it . DC has done better though and although i liked it , it wasn't as good as i had hoped or expected . all in all , though , i'd Give Superman : Doomsday a based on it's entertainment value .
fun horror film	many people really slagged this movie and Paris Hilton . i'm not sure why . Yes , it's a horror movie-and yes it's a remake of a 1953 movie with Vincent Price . so it can not be called original . but then again , how many people in the target audience have seen the original , or even know about it . so throw that argument out the window . As for Paris Hilton , she is not that bad of an actress . anyway , as for the movie itself , it's a fun thrill ride with a fair amount of suspense . the acting is as good as any for this genre , and it seemed as if the actors were really having fun with it . my advice pop the movie in , shut off your brain for the duration and enjoy . there are a lot worse movies out there . ( in this genre and others )
decent sequel , not quite up to the standard of the first one	the main problem i found with this movie is it is not original , whereas the first one was . there is lots of action and some excitement and a pretty high body count , but there is very little in the way of gore . in my mind , most of the kills were lame . i like the fact that the heroine is a woman , and she a pretty strong character . the movie felt much liter in tone the the first one . it was sort of missing that scenes of foreboding . also , there are not any real scenes of peril or suspense . i do think the movie was entertaining , and the villain was not a bad character , although it would be hard to beat Rutger Hauer " s portrayal of the psycho in the fist movie . when all is said and done , i'd have to give " The Hitcher 2 "
and you thought you had problems	This is the second feature film directed by Ben Stiller , the first being " Reality Bites " which i have not seen . anyway the this movie is basically about the cable guy from hell . Steven Kovacs ( Matthew Brodderick ) has just been kicked out of his girlfriend's place . he now has his own apartment and is waiting for the cable guy to show up . The cable guy ( Jim Carrey ) shows up and installs the cable even giving Steven all the movie channels for free . From then on , the cable guy ingratiates himself into Stevens life , thinking they are best pals . one he realizes Steven doesn't feel the the seam way , things take dark turn . Jim Carrey is very good as the cable guy , showing his dark side , as well as the usual Jim Carrey manic hi-jinx . Matthew Brodderick is good in his role , although he is given little to do except react to Carey . This is a dark turn for Carey , a sort of dark comedy . but it works well , showing Carey has some range . Ben stiller does a good job directing this one , as it must have been a challenge reigning Carrey in for more serious scenes . i have to mention there is on hysterical scene , involving a particular word game .
not as good as the first one , but still fairly entertaining	while i don't think this movie was a s good as the original , i also don't think it's as bad as the rating here ( ) indicates . true , it doesn't have Keanu Reeves , or Dennis Hopper as the bad guy . however , Sandra Bullock does return . and it does have Jason Patric , who's pretty good actor with some charisma . and let's not forget Willem Dafoe as the bad guy . he's makes a good villain , in my mind . just like the first " Speed " this one has some decent action sequences , but they are less frequent ans less flashy than the original . also , there is one scenes which completely shatters believability . the story itself is not as compelling . in fact , i think there is less depth to this one . Jan de Bont and Graham Yost are also behind this one , but for whatever reason they fail to capture the same magic . still , it's a highly entertaining movie . for that reason , i give " Speed 2 "
the movie is inspirational without being preachy and Samuel L . Jackson puts on an acting clinic	there are many ' based on true events , underdog stories ' made into movies . but this one is different . yes , it is inspirational , but it isn't preachy and schmaltzy like so many have been . maybe the studios are finally seeing the light . after all , this is the second recent movie of the genre ( that i have seen ) to get it right , the other being " Glory Road " . as for " Coach Carter " , it's a pretty subdued affair . it focuses on a High School basketball coach ( Samuel . L . Jackson ) who has a vision for the students at his school . not only will they become winners on the basketball court , but they will also be inners off . this means as human beings , they will lose he loser , mediocrity mentality which has been ingrained intro them , by the school system and even their parents . of course , he meets fierce opposition . does he succeed in this vision ? well , lets just say things don't go quite the way you might expect them to . this movie is very character and story driven , so don't expect a lot of action . there aren't that many basketball sequences . much of the movie takes place off the court . but the movie works for 3 reasons . first , its ability to tell an inspirational story without bringing out the sledgehammer . second , the the supporting performances are all credible . but more important is the masterful acting of Samuel L . Jackson . the man is simply mesmerizing . you believe every second of his performance . the man has great screen presence and charisma and the emotion he conveys is real . the movie is long , but it's all about getting there , not being there , and the journey is worth it , in my opinion .
less faithful to the original , but more entertaining than the recently released version	this version of " King Kong " was very unfairly ravaged by critics when it premiered in 1976 . i have no idea why . yes it had some problems , and it also had some strong points . first , the problems . the ape walked upright instead of on its knuckles ( this was less of a problem with me than with most of the critics ) . purists were very upset with this . next , a glaring problem . in many scenes , you can clearly see that miniature models of certain structure were used . this is so obvious it is laughable . also . i think i'm the filmmakers veered away somewhat from the original version leaving out some pivotal scenes . the strong points : good performances from all the main characters . the ape looked fairly realistic for the its time . the movie was well paced . there were no humorous bits , no filler . it was not a grand spectacle , like the recently release version . the scenes between the ape and the woman were more heartfelt . i found it more entertaining than the latest version , much more exciting . i give this film
solid thriller	Pulse is a thriller along the guidelines of " White Noise " which starred Michael Keaton . i did enjoy White Noise , but I thought Pulse was a bit better at the thrilling aspects . Basically , the premise of Pulse is that dead spirits have found a way to break through the barrier between their world and ours and have taken over all our communication networks ans begun taking over people's bodies and infecting them with a deadly virus in order to eliminate the human race and take control . Kristen Bell , of Veronica Mars fame , plays the heroin in the movie and does a very convincing job in the role . i should mention that White Noise is much narrower in its scope . it does deal with spirits , but there no is subplot involving spirits taking over the world . Anyway , i hope i haven't said too much . both movies are great . it just depends on your taste . White Noise is more suspenseful and Pulse is more of a thriller , though each contains both elements . anyway pulse gets a strong out of 10
freaky	this film is a remake of an Asian film , which seems to be all the rage these days , and has been for quite some time . who knows how long this trend will last . anyway , i haven't seen the original , so i can't compare the two . as for this remake , i liked it for the most part . it has some pretty freaky moments alright . it's not really scary Per Se , but it is definitely unsettling . Jessica Alba is not too bad in this movie . in fact she does a better job than i thought she would . aside from being a remake , the premise of this movie has been done before in probably two movies , the names of which escape me . there are a few slow moments in the movie . but mostly it's good . i really liked the ending . i though it elevated the movie a bit . i wasn't expecting it to end the way it did . for me , The Eye is i a
a solid entry in the horror genre	The Woods is a solid , eerily effective ghost story , it boasts very good acting , a decent plot and a good setting . there are some special effects , but not as much as you would expect , which is a refreshing change for this genre . this is not a slasher flick . the movie is very character driven , and so is very dramatic , and is a bit slow at times , but not enough to lose interest . the only weak spot is near the end of the movie , but i won't give it away . the movie relies more on suspense and psychological scares than gore , another positive . this is not the best movie of the genre , but it is certainly on of the better . for those who like a little gore in their movies , it may not be your cup of tea . but then again , this is a different type of movie which doesn't require gore to tell its story . all in all a good offering . A strong out of 10
better than the first two by leaps and bounds	i thought this was the best of the Resident Evil franchise . the action was more intense , the fight scenes were away more spectacular and i also really liked the music . obviously , it's not original , bearing many similarities to the first two . and it does borrow heavily from other movies . but still , it is an entertaining romp . i think it is much more gory and graphic than the first two . this is just an observation . it didn't really bother me . this is the first resident Evil movie i have seen on the big screen , and if you have a chance to watch it in the theatre , i think it's worth it . it won't win any awards for deep characterizations or storyline , but it really isn't that kind of movie . it knows what it is and doesn't try to be anything else . i think it does what it sets out to do , and that is to entertain . for me , Resident Evil : Extinction is a definite
Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , Joe Pesci , and Rene Russo	Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back in action again , as Riggs and Murtaugh , two L . A . cops who were first introduced in the first Lethal Weapon movie . Joe Pesci returns as smart alec Leo Getz , though his role is smaller in this movie . However Rene Russo joins the gang this time around . as for the movie itself , i liked it as much as the second one . there's an exciting chase scene , some great fight scenes , and the movie is funnier than the first two . Not only do Gibson and Glover have their back and forth banter , but so do Gibson and Russo . they have great chemistry together and really work well of each other . the only thing i didn't like that much about this installment was that the story was pretty standard for the genre , and the bad guys were your typical generic , run of the mill crooks . but the performances , the comedy and the chemistry of the actors make up for that . for me , Lethal Weapon 3 is a
pretty decent all around ( 3D animation is pretty good ) but could have been better	i guess i didn't mind this movie . i mean , it is enjoyable and the animation is well done . the story is simple , yet muddled at times , if that makes any sense . there are a lot of different characters in this one , and it's kind of hard to keep track , at times . there is lots of action and adventure . i found the ending anti-climatic . this is the first of three movies in the " Bionicle series " , and though i haven't seen the 2nd and 3rd yet , i suspect this one is a stand alone adventure . anyway , it's an entertaining 3D animated movie , though i wouldn't call it stellar , by any means . it's pretty fast paced , but short in its running time ( less than 80 minutes . nevertheless , i think there are many more positives than negatives . i'm giving " Bionicle : Mask of light " a
Pacino and De Niro star together	finally , we get a movie starring both Robert Di Nero and all Pacino actually sharing scenes together . they were both in Micheal Mann's 1995 heist caper heat , but shared almost no screen time together . in righteous kill , they play cops and longtime partners , trying to put the bad guys away and off the street . naturally things don't always work out that way , and there's more to it than that . if you're expecting an action movie here , you won't get it . it's more of a procedural crime drama . it's not fast paced , but it isn't boring . i found it interesting . there's a nice little twist that i didn't see coming . Jon Avnet directed this movie . he also directed 2007's 88 minutes , which also starred All Pacino . i linseed this movie better than that one . this one has more going on , more depth to the story . Carla Gugino , who like a lot stars , as well as Donnie Wahlberg , . and also Curtis " 50 cent " Jackson , who does a fine job here . the underrated Brian Dennehy also stars . for me , Righteous Kill is a
Superman and Batman form an uneasy alliance	this short film trailer is basically about Superman and Batman working together and forming an uneasy alliance . obviously , the two characters have vastly differing views on how to deal with crime and what constitutes punishment . it's a lot of fun to see these two iconic characters try to get along . i won't go int to the storyline here . but i will get into the acting , which is terrific . everyone is well cast . the two actors playing Superman and Batman are well suited to their characters . the same filmmakers that made Batman : Dead End and Grayson also made this short film . of the three , i probably liked this one the least , but i still thought it was well done . for me , World's finest is a
a real treat ( i've never seen anything like it )	a 14 year old girl has a three week chat-room relationship with a man . they decide to meet in person . it turns out he may be not be what he seems . but then neither is she . i won't give any of the plot away . you will have to watch the movie to find out more . i will say this film is along the lines of Fatal Attraction and others of the genre , except it turns the conventions of the genre upside down and inside out . it's exceptionally creative and inventive . i haven't seen anything like it before . i was also really impressed with both the acting and writing , as well as the dialogue . this is one compelling little thriller , although thriller might not quite be the correct word . it is certainly harrowing though . definitely one of the more interesting movies i have seen in a while . for me , Hard Candy is a
an entertaining yet strange , twisted horror / sci-fi hybrid	in the mouth of madness is one bizarre movie . it is part horror , part science fiction , with shades of many movies past thrown into the mix . i enjoyed the movie , yet i can't think of any particular reason . it certainly wasn't scary and there is very little in the way of suspense . however , the creepiness factor is quite high , as is the disgust factor at times . the makeup effects at times were not impressive , in fact at times seemed downright amateurish . the ending is of course ambiguous , as is the entire movie . the premise was interesting . an insurance investigator is pulled into a popular horror writers fictional world . he eventually discovers he is a character in one of the writer's horror novels and that all of his actions have been dictated by what is written in the book . sam neil plays the insurance investigator , john trent and does a good job of showing the gradual progression of trent from a rational , logical man to one who may or not ne be sane , as he discovers what he thinks is reality may not be . of course we never really know ourselves whether trent is crazy or whether he really is just a figment of an author's imagination . the truth of the matter is really left to us to decide . this is one of those rare instances where an open ending actually works . the movie itself is effective because we are left to our imagination and can create our own ending . out of 10
the best Scooby Doo adventure yet	good job . that's how i would describe this animated Scooby-Doo adventure . this is so far the best of the animated Scooby movies i have seen . i liked the story . i thought it had some depth to to it . the movie is also well paced . it doesn't get boring for a minute . it also has an interesting group of characters ( besides Scooby and Shaggy and the gang , of course ) plus , the movie was a real blast . i has a lot of fun watching it . i also liked the great Scottish music . it was very catchy and infectious . naturally , we know that Scooby and the Gamg will solve the mystery , but it's still fun getting to that point . the animation is also pretty good for this movie . i would love it if they did a 3D animation Scooby adventure , but we'll just have to wait and see . for me , Scooby-Doo and the Loch Ness monster is a
action , excitement , danger and intrigue	i don't get the low rating this movie has here ( ) . i think this movie is pretty good . there's action , excitement , danger and intrigue . the acting is also pretty good . i really enjoyed Ernie Hudson's character and his performance . the shark attacks are pretty thrilling , at least i think so . i also like the music , which really heightens the suspense . the story is also good , in my opinion . the movie moves at a good pace and the sharks definitely inspire fear . i think you could do a lot worse than spending 90 minutes watching this movie . for , me it's an enjoyable ride . i think this movie is being unfairly criticized and is nowhere near as bad as its rating indicates . i give " Shark Attack " a
a scathing indictment of the world of fashion ( true or not-but probably true )	this movie is billed as being a comedy drama , but it is more of a black comedy than straight comedy . the movie is very sarcastic and ironic in its portrayal of the fashion industry in general , and the head of a major fashion magazine in particular . Meryl Streep plays Miranda Priestly the head of the major fashion magazine Runway . Anne Hathaway plays Andy Sachs , an eager young woman who dreams of becoming a top journalist and thinks that working as assistant to Miranda Priestly for one year will be her ticket into real journalism . Stanley Tucci plays Nigel a lifer at the company ( really nothing more than a glorified worker bee , who thinks much higher of himself ) who hopes to one day leave the company and have a venture of his own . Streep Plays Priestly as a scathing , ruthless , ice queen , concerned about nothing and no one but herself and the magazine . she has little time for the peons under her ( who of course do all the work and get no credit ) . she is virtually void of emotion or human feeling of any kind . though there are a few scenes witch show there might be a human being under there . she is also shown , in a few scenes as being vulnerable and insecure , as she has a husband who treats her as she treats those around her . Hathaway's Sachs is a fashion neophyte , as naive as she is eager . time goes on and things change , of course . in time Sachs learns valuable life lessons , naturally . the movie at times is sappy and maudlin and the character of Sachs is played a bit to unreal in the latter stages of the movie . the movie filled with witty , sharp dialogue that flows very smoothly . Streep ' performance is subtle and understated but bang on for her character . Tucchi's Nigel provides some dry comic relief and glimpses of humanity . Hathaway fails to make a big impact , and is really just fodder in much of the movie . the character of Miranda Priestly is purportedly based on a real person , although no one can say that of course . either way it offers a scathing indictment of the fashion industry , especially the elite . these people deserve to be skewered , and if they can't take it , they are as thin skinned as those people that work beneath them and are also accused of being thin skinned . How ironic . i hope people in the industry watch this movie and feel uncomfortable , as they should . this movie rates a solid
i liked it a bit more than the original version	prior to watching this movie , i'd heard people say that director Rob Zombie had butchered the franchise with his take on the Halloween lore . i don't share that viewpoint . i though the movie had a lot of good points to it . i thought the casting of Malcom McDowell was genius . he plays his character tongue in cheek , and really i think that's the whole tone of the movie . and it worked for me . there are some serious parts and the movie even has a moral , but it doesn't hit you over the head with anything . the violence is more sudden and a bit more graphic than the 1978 version . the acting is better in this movie , i think . the actor who played the grown up Micheal Myers ( the psycho ) is very convincing . and the child who played young Michael Myers is perfect for the role . the movie does tend to be slow in spots , but i still think it is a better movie than the original version . there is a lot of crude language in the movie and a fair amount of nudity , so be warned . for me , Halloween ( 2007 ) is a
i thought it was entertaining	i enjoyed this movie . i thought it was pretty good from an entertainment point of view . however , i didn't fee it was very inspirational and for me , it didn't have the impact that many of the movies of the genre have . i didn't find anything profound about it . i think it may be loosely inspired by real events , which could mean anything as far as movies go . i could not really get into it beyond a superficial level . i'm not sure why . maybe it's because i'm not a real soccer fan . having said that , it was well acted , and well paced . it certainly wasn't boring , by any means . the songs they chose for the movie were also really good . i would probably watch this movie again down the road , though , because as i said , it's enjoyable as entertainment . for me , Gracie is a
lust , betrayal and deception	this is the second filmed version of Victor Hugo's classic novel , the first one being The Darling of Paris in 1917 . in this version , Lon Chaney plays the title character whose name is Quasi Modo and judging by how the character looks , Chaney endured quite a bit for the character . Quasi Modo is a deformed slave and bell ringer . this movie isn't as much about the hunchback as it is about one woman who has stolen the hearts of a few men , and what they do to try and win her love . what follows is lust , deception betray and tragedy . caught up in the middle of it all , through no fault of his own , is Quasi Modo . but the movie isn't all sadness and despair . at the beginning , it is lite hearted and comical . i enjoyed most of the film , though it does have its slow moments . the acting is quite good though , as is the musical accompaniment . i give The Hunchback of Notre Dame
slightly dated ( yet relevant ) futuristic tale of Utopia ( or is it Dystopia ? )	this is a hard movie to rate . It was made in 1976 , so is dated in some ways by today's standards . the special effects , while innovative at the time , are almost laughable today . the story though is relevant in today's age , even more so than 1976 . it brings up moral and ethical dilemmas as we may be closer to the events in the movie than ever , though admittedly , still a long way off . the basic premise is that everyone lives inside a walled city , free to do whatever they want , until , that is their 30th birthday . at this time , they must go through a process called " renewal " , where they start over again . However , there are those , who wish to live beyond 30 and attempt to escape . these people are called " runners " . an elite police force , known as the Sandmen , must find them and terminate them . this is the sole purpose of each Sandman . As i mentioned earlier , there are many moral and ethical dilemmas brought up by this movie , especially given Earth's History , its present , and most certainly its future . the movie is not heavy handed , or preachy , however . you will have to watch the movie to find out more . If you are an action junkie , this movie may not be your cup of tea . while there is some action , it is not the bombastic , frenetic type of action found in many of today's movies . the movie is also more dialogue driven and is fairly slow at times . however , it does pick up and is worth watching , especially if you like movies which cause you to think .
intense and thrilling	this movie could be called a blatant rip-off of " Jaws 3 " , at least the beginning of it . however it has an added twist and it's a much better movie . the shark attacks are really bloody and violent in this one , and the are frenetic at times . i'm not sure if this movie is better than the first , but it's still pretty good . again there's lots of action , and the sharks are fear inspiring . the acting is pretty good . the movie is a bit too melodramatic at times and lags once in awhile . even so , it's an entertaining movie with some thrills and some nail biting tension . there are a lot worse movies out there in the genre and in general . if you wanna fill 90 minutes or so , you could do a lot worse , and you may even enjoy it . my vote for " Shark Attack 2 " is
i found it higher energy and more entertaining than the 1st one	i actually think this is a better movie than the 1st one . i don't think it has as many funny moments , but there are some . i just think it is more entertaining and has an even higher energy level . i also liked the story more . it has a bit more to it . Eugene levy is in this one , and i think he really adds something to the movie . the rivalry between his and Steve Martin's character is quite fun to watch . The original cast are all back , and the acting is once again good . this time around Steve Martin did not over exaggerate his facial expressions and movements during the physical comedy moments . if he did , i didn't notice . at the end of the movie , i wondered if they would make a third entry in the series , which i really hope they do . anyway , for me " Cheaper by the Dozen 2 " is a strong
Locklear is very convincing	Shattered Mind , AKA The terror Inside stars Heather Locklear as a woman tormented by multiple personalities . Locklear is very convincing here , in a very non glamorous role . the movie is engrossing at times , but very dreary and depressing . it's also hard to follow at times and , moves ponderously slow . it's hard to watch , to say the least . i don't think it's a movie you could enjoy , but i think it's enlightening . the performances are all good . the problem is , the story is almost all hopeless despair , with no real bright side . i think it would have been better if there had been a few lighter moments , though i realize it's not always easy to do with this type of movie . it's a made for TV movie , but it's very well made . because of that and the performances , especially Locklear , i give Shattered Mind a
pretty decent made for TV movie	" She Cried No " AKA " Freshman Fall , is a pretty good TV movie , but it is pretty generic for the genre . it doesn't stand out or anything , but it is well made . the acting performances are pretty good and the characters are pretty believable . the one thing that does set this movie apart would be the ending , which is unexpected and unconventional for this type of movie , at least in my experience . it's nice to see a movie that doesn't cop out in the end . it's also nice to see a strong female character . the movie is certainly watchable and well paced , though there isn't really a lot of tension . still , it's a decent way to spend 90 minutes . i give " She Cried No " a
fun and thrilling ( but as deep as a puddle )	Anacondas is the second of the anaconda films , but is not a sequel to the original . it is a stand alone film , and a fairly decent effort . there are no cast members from the original film . the film take s a more serious tone than its predecessor with no campy elements . The action scenes are much more plentiful and intense . and instead of just one anaconda , there are several , hence the title . there is an ensemble cast , which are all competent , given the material . there an eclectic character mix here ranging from the likable to the not so likable and the completely hate inspiring . the motivations of the characters are well fleshed out , always a good thing . the film itself delves into the territory of implausibility at times , but there would be no movie otherwise . Entertaining , fast paced with some thrilling sequences , combine to make Anacondas a worthwhile experience . just don't expect anything deep .
one of Chuck Norris's earlier films heavier on the story , lighter on the fighting	this is one of Chuck Norris's earlier films . this movie i ( belive it or not ) more story driven , rather than focusing on martial arts action . Chuck Plays John T . Booker , an ex commando who suddenly finds that members of his former unit are being assassinated . Booker tries to warn those that are still alive and find out why they are being targeted . He believes he is also on the list , so his time is limited to find both the killer and the reason for the murders . Chuck actually uses his acting chops more than his fists and feet in this outing . he actually does an okay job in that dept . there are still some fight scenes in the movie , which actually look more realistic than in today's martial arts flicks . there are no flashy camera tricks here . back in the 70's people liked their action more authentic . i liked that about his film . if you are looking for an all out action movie , this 1 is not for you . however , if you like a little story in the mix , check it out .
one of the better Stephen King novels adapted for the screen	this is one of the best Stephen King novels adapted for the big screen . this movie is well acted , well written and well directed . Kathy bates makes a great homicidal maniac . James Caan plays novelist Paul Sheldon who ends up being tormented by Annie Wilkes , who is his biggest fan . she goes to great lengths to prove just how big a fan she is . of course , she is also very angry at Sheldon , so of course he must be punished . i won't reveal how he comes to be tormented by her , or why she is angry at him , but she has her reasons , sick and twisted they may be . Caan is also convincing as a man who believes his life is in danger and is desperate to survive . anyway , the suspense factor is high in this one , as is the creepiness factor . for me , Misery is a
2nd sequel in Rocky series	Rocky 3 is not a bad movie , as far as the series goes . it has lots of action , some good training sequences and some dramatic moments . however it lacks something that the first 2 have . and that is heart . it just doesn't have the depth of that they have . this is not a tangible thing , but more a feeling . if you watch Rocky 3 , you will understand . the antagonist , ( villain ) Clubber Lang , Rocky's rival , is fairly strong as portrayed by Mr . T . though i get the sense this movie was made just to keep the franchise going . I say this because if you watch the next installment , Rocky 4 , you will notice there is more intent to the whole movie . The antagonist is much more developed and there is more at stake . there are actually 2 antagonists and you will understand if you watch the movie . anyway , back to 3 . the filmmakers could have done without this installment and went right to 4 . as for Rocky 3 - - 7 stars / 10
decent suspense movie , but a bit slow a times	this is a pretty good movie , all things considered . it has its moments of suspense and tension , and there are a few possible suspects for the psycho , at least in the first half or so . the acting is fairly decent , and the writing is fair . i will say that i found that sometimes the build up to some scenes is a bit too drawn out . and the ending is a bit too ambiguous for me . however , having Jerry Wasserman as the creepy town sheriff is a stroke of casting genius . you never really know what's going on in his mind , and whether he's a good guy or a bad guy , at least until near the end of the movie . he steals every scene he's in . John Savage is also good as the creepy father . when you add everything up , this movie is certainly watchable and more than that at times . for me , " Christina's House " is a
i didn't like it as much as Friday Night Lights . . . , but	i still liked it . i just felt that . . . Nights had a stronger story , and i was more emotionally involved . i also found the characters mote compelling . for me the program dragged at times , when there were scenes not involving football . fortunately these scenes weren't very long , and there weren't a lot of them . of all the actors in the movie , i was most impressed with Kristy Swanson and Halle Berry , though bad had fairly small roles . the program was entertaining enough to keep watching , i just didn't think it was spectacular . is it worth buying ? hard to say . but i do think it's certainly worth catching on premium cable or as rental . these are just my thoughts . my vote for the program :
Van Damme shows some acting ability in this one	as far as i know , this movie represents a big departure for Jean Claude Van Damme . to me , it marks the first time he has put in a good acting performance . this movie is more of a drama than anything . there are some fight scenes , but they are much more realistic and gritty than his past films , at the one i have seen . the movie also contains some very brutal moments , some implied , others shown . Van Damme's character is shown as very human in this movie . there was also a point to the film , something sorely lacking in previous efforts . it was entertaining , but also very hard to watch at times . if you are expecting over the top fights and stunts , you won't find it here . instead you will find what seems to me to be a fairly accurate portrayal of life in prison , and the horrors that occur there . for me " In Hell " is a strong based largely on its realism and Van Damme ' heart wrenching performance .
there's lots to like about this western	this is another good western , which i enjoyed . it's not an epic or anything , but it is good for what it is . it ' about 3 fur trappers , led by a men named Jed , who is crude and uncivilized . Jed and his two friends find themselves as scouts for a fort that is the only thing standing between them and and Indian band , who resent the Americans on their land , and want to take it back . that's the gist of the story . what follows is action , excitement , even a bit of humour , and forbidden romance . one of Jed's friends , Gus , reminded me a lot of the character Quint ( played by Robert Shaw ) in the movie Jaws . they both have that crusty , gruff demeanor . anyway , if you're a western fan , you should find lots to like about this particular entry . i think it deserves a
the movie itself is pretty decent , but the disc is bare bones ( 2 disc special edition comes out in ' 08 )	i didn't find too many problems with this movie . i mean , it is 157 minutes , but that doesn't really have a negative effect on the film . the acting is good all around , but no standout performances . the story is well written , and easy to follow . by the way , if you're not familiar with the story , Zodiac is a killer who terrorized the San Francisco Bay area in the late 60's early 70's . the case was never officially solved . a lot of the movie consists of quiet , dramatic moments , with a bit of subdued action here and there . the movie is compelling enough to maintain interest , but not outstanding . i did think , however , that the tone of the film was a bit too light for the subject matter . otherwise , though , it's pretty good . the DVD is bare bones , but there is a preview of a special 2 disc edition coming in 2008 , which promises insights into the case with in depth interviews from those involved in the original case and much more . i actually think this stuff will be more compelling than the movie . my advice , rent the bare bones edition and wait for the special edition .
well done	i enjoyed this film . it's the latest installment in George A . Romero's Dead series of films . it's not really a sequel to any of the other movies . it's more of a standalone feature . i thought this movie did a good job of portraying the paranoia and despair that would occur if such a situation were to happen . it follows a groups of college students and a professor as they document the events as they are happening on a video camera , so it's shot documentary style . i think this movie is an indictment of society and our morbid fascination with death . it's also an indictment of the media and how they can twist and spin everything , so you never really know what the truth is . and it also shows out dependence on technology . there's also plenty of gore here , if you're a gore hound . all in all , a well done movie . my vote for Diary of the Dead : a
final film in John Ford's Cavalry " trilogy "	to me , this third and final film of John Ford's Cavalry " trilogy " is better than the second entry , She Wore a yellow Ribbon , but not quite as good as the first entry , Fort Apache . this one has some exciting moments and a few funny moments , which were lacking in Ribbon . this one has quite a strong romance angle to it , which i didn't like that much . however , John Wayne is very good in these sensitive moments . we get to see more of Wayne in this one than in Ribbon , which is a good thing . Maureen O'Hara is also good as the romantic interest . however , i thought Claude Jarman Jr . was strong as as Trooper Jeff Yorke , son of the commanding officer , Lt . Col . Kirby Yorke , played by John Wayne . i was also impressed by Harry Carey Jr . ( one of Ford's regulars ) as Trooper Daniel ' Sandy ' Boone . i felt there were some slow moments here and there , but overall , i liked it . for me , Rio Grande is a
fascinating	this movie is quite a bit different than 1993's Tombstone . obviously it focuses on Wyatt Earp , more than anything . this movie paints quite a different picture of Earp than Tombstone does . it depicts him in a much different light . Kevin Costner's portrayal of Earp is much different than Kurt Russel's in Tombstone . i think i liked Russel's portrayal a bit more . Dennis Quaid portrays Doc Holliday , and his portrayal is much different than Val Kilmer's in Tombstone . i actually liked Val Kilmer's performance better , and i liked his character more . Quaid does a good job though . the supporting cast is also very good . another big difference between this movie and Tombstone , is that this movie is very deliberately paced , and more in depth . the story is much deeper . there is not that much action , and some may be turned of by the length of the movie at over 3hrs . but if you can view it as character study , you might enjoy it . one thing i really liked rising the musical score . i found it very rousing and poetic . for me , Wyatt Earp is a
i liked it	sure , it may seem cheesy by todays ' standards , but it's good clean fun for the whole family , for the most part . really young children might be a bit scared from a few scenes , but other than that , it's fun for everyone . i chuckled quite a bit t some of the comedic bits , and i also thought the story was interesting . it's not just about the Shaggy Dog . there's another story in there as well . some of the facial expressions and reactions may seem a bit hokey and overdone , but so what . that was how they acted back then . if i recall correctly , this was the first motion picture made by Disney . i wouldn't say the comedic parts are laugh out loud , rolling in the aisles funny . , but they were certainly amusing . you could do a lot worse with 102 minutes or so . my vote for The Shaggy Dog :
suspenseful , thrilling ( if unoriginal ) action film	firewall stars Harrison Ford as a bank security specialist , who is forced into breaking into the system he has designed by a vicious criminal played by Paul Bettany . jack Stanfield ( Ford ) must steal millions of dollars from several bank accounts or his family will be killed . Bettany plays Bill Cox , the ringleader . Viginia Madsen plays Beth Stanfield . As far as this type of movie goes , this one is okay . it is suspenseful and thrilling , but aside from the basic premise , nothing new . Virginia Madsen is a standout in her performance as the wife who is terrified but must keep it together for the sake of her children . Ford is his usual reliable self , but it seems he is simply playing the same character he usually plays . he is also getting up there in age , so it might be time to retire the action hero persona , and try something more character driven . Paul Bettany is outstanding as the antagonist . he personifies evil . this is a departure for him , but he may have a career playing the baddie . His performance elevates this film . i give this film
again , lacks the epic quality it should have , but it doesn't exactly suck	well , at least it didn't suck . but it wasn't as good as the potential hinted at . i guess it's maybe slightly better than the first one , but barely . the story is interesting and has some merit , but the execution of the film left me empty . the Silver Surfer is a pretty cool looking character , but i wish the character had been developed more . Having Laurence Fishburne voice the Surfer was a definite plus , as his voice fit the character perfectly . no disrespect to Doug Jones , who physically played the character . i'm mot sure i've heard Doug Jone's voice , so all i can comment on is Fishburne . like the first one , this movie is too short and seems rushed . it lacks the epic quality this type of movie should have . another problem is the characters didn't really have to do much more or different than they did in the first one . having said that , the movie is entertaining , if not compelling . even with it's problems , i'd give " Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer " . as a final word , if another installment or a possible Silver Surfer spin off , is planned as rumored , one can only hope they pull out all the stops and make whatever's next into what it really should be : an epic tale worthy of its source material . otherwise , there's no point and they should stop right now .
very bleak , but thought provoking , and ahead of its time	this is a pretty good movie , all things considered . the acting was really good , as was the writing , there is some great dialogue here . i think the movie could have been a bit shorter . i also found it kinda bleak . the whole idea that we only know what big conglomerates that own the media , specifically TV news , want us to know . since this movie was mad In 1976 , it was certainly ahead of its time , in that viewpoint . whether all that is true or not , i don't know . i do know that i never watch TV news or read news in the paper , mostly because it's all stuff . as for this movie , it is certainly very thought provoking and brings up interesting issues . based on that , and the acting and writing , i give Network a .
different	this is an interesting film , sort of a biopic of Edward D . Wood Jr . , or Ed Wood , as he is more famously known . Wood apparently was one of the most inept filmmakers , ever . but he was also passionate about film . he just had trouble raising money , so he had to make his films on the cheap , usually with his friends in the cast . he also had no real idea about how to make a movie . his Plan Nine from Outer Space was at one time considered the worst movie ever made , and Wood became world famous for that reason . unfortunately this was two years after he died . anyway , Johny Depp plays the title character . there are some other well known actors here as well . the movie is at times sad , funny , enlightening , and certainly interesting . i mostly liked it , though i don't think it was a masterpiece . for me , Ed Wood is a
above average western with some great gun battles	this is a movie about the James / Younger Gang of the old west and their exploits . the gang is known for robbing banks and they also rob trains . it's sort of told from a sympathetic view of the gang . the movie doesn't really show them as bad men , but rather men who are a product of their time . David Carradine plays Cole Younger , Keith Carradine plays Jim Younger and Robert Carradine plays Bob Younger . Stacy Keach plays Frank James , while James Keach plays Jesse James . Dennis Quaid plays Ed Miller and Randy Quaid Plays Clell Miller , who also ride with the gang . for me , this western is above average . there's lots of action and some intense and ( in my opinion ) spectacular gunfights . this movie may have the distinction of being the 1st movie to have real life brothers playing brothers on screen . i thought the acting was pretty convincing , and the filmmakers did a good job in making me feel some empathy for the gang . if you like westerns , you should like this movie . for me , " The Long Riders " is a
entertaining popcorn movie fills the gap	this is an entertaining movie , though there's not a lot of depth to it . it's not what i would call great by any stretch . i don't think it's too original either , but then again in today's movie climate , what movie is ? if it's not a remake , it's a sequel . in this case , it's a remake of a bad 1970 TV series . watching it won't make you feel any different than if you hadn't watched it . there's no lack of action and the characters are decent enough though no one really stands out . as far as popcorn movies goes , this one fills the gap for 117 minutes , but won't likely leave much of an impact when finished . you could do a lot worse than " Swat " to kill some time . just don't expect too much realism or originality .
decent ghost story , though not very intense ( very family friendly )	i didn't find this movie too bad . i was expecting something more intense . this is a fairly family friendly ghost story and there's nothing wrong with that . Elisha Cuthbert is the leading female character , while Ricky Mabe ( whose career so far has been mostly TV series and a one or two TV movies ) is the lead male character . the acting is fine , and the movie has bit of an eerie feel to it . however , i didn't really buy into the reason for the ghost haunting the estate . it just seemed too weak of an explanation to me . other than that , i don't have any major gripe with movie . like i said , it's pretty lite family fare , so you want see any blood or violence , and there's no bad language that i recall . it's rated PG for thematic material , but i don't think too many children over ten would have a problem with it . for me , " Believe " is a
quality family friendly viewing	i liked this movie a bit more than the first one . this one has more of a story , the characters have a bit more to do and the pace is quicker . there is some action , though i still wouldn't call it action packed . like the first , this is a decent family movie , though there are a few mild scenes of peril and some mild language . again , it might be a bit too much for very young children . still , it is quality family viewing . there's no real violence or sexual content . and there is a bit of humour in this one , which there really wasn't in the first one . there is also a bit more realism to this movie and it has a message of sorts , but it is not at all preachy . this movie isn't for everybody's taste , but if you like your movies low key and family friendly , this might be your movie . for me , Gentle Ben 2 is a
not super , but definitely worth watching	okay , the basic plot of the movie . guy ( Luke Wilson ) asks girl ( Uma Thurman ) on date . things go not too bad at first . guy discover girl has a secret super identity . also discovers she is crazy , neurotic , jealous , possessive-just plain nuts . so , guy breaks up with girl . she get angry and decides to get even . and since she has super powers , she can really get even . i'll leave it at that . i had higher hopes for this one . it isn't bad Per Se-it just had so much potential . it is billed as a comedy / romance / sc / fi . okay , there is some comedy , in fact a few very funny scenes , but most of the comedy consisted of the light chuckle , sort of amusing variety . now , romance . there is some romance involved and it is a bit schmaltzy at times , almost too much . there is a little bit of sc / fi , but that is the least developed area in the movie . there are some pretty decent special effects . the acting is good . Luke Wilson gives off a sort of " aw shucks " , ma'am " kind of vibe , which is amusing . Uma Thurman is credible in the lead role , and looks hot as always . Anna Farris is cast in a slightly more serious , less ditsy role than usual , and pulls it off nicely . there is no doubt she can act . she has been in some dramatic movies and fared well . but the stand out in this movie is Wanda Sykes , who provides most of the very funny scenes . she has a small , but brilliant role . i hope we see a lot more of her in the future . i should also mention the music . not good for this movie . we are treated to lots of sweeping majestic , almost inspirational sort of arias ( let's raise everyone's spirits ) . it is really just too much . and one last little observation . much of the sc / fi aspect is a rip-off of superman . this probably an homage , more than anything . not really a criticism , just an observation . but still worth mentioning . anyway , to sum up , not a bad movie , definitely watchable , just don't expect to be laughing hysterically all that frequently . this movie gets a strong
pretty good , if unoriginal	for this genre ( crime drama / thriller ) this movie is pretty good . it's certainly entertaining and thrilling . it's also pretty fast paced . the acting is decent but not spectacular . Denzel Washington plays the main character , and he has been better . Eva Mendes is also in the movie , and depending on your taste in women , may be reason enough to watch the movie . though the movie is of a serious nature it still comes off as a fluff piece . it isn't really original for the genre . there are a few twists and turns , for sure , but many movies of the genre have those . you probably won't be fooled too much , since most of the film is predictable . still , it's fun getting there . for me , Out of Time is a
an amusing , sometimes hysterical spoof on top gun	the movie hot shots is obviously a broad comedy . you really have to look at the big picture to understand its genius . it's sort of like the monty python gang doing their take on hamlet and playing it straight . that's the genius of hotshots , that the actors play it as if they too were doing hamlet . of course there are several funny bits contained in the movie , and two sequences which are absolutely hysterical . but it is the intentional over the top acting that really makes this movie . i suspect they may have had to do numerous takes for many scenes , because the actors could not keep a straight face . the dialogue is brilliant in this movie and delivered perfectly deadpan every time . and of course there is also some physical comedy , which doesn't hurt . this was a much more enjoyable movie than the naked gun series . i also must mention lloyd bridges who played a very important , and very dimwitted admiral . there are many absurd scenes which are brilliantly overacted . this is a fast paced movie , which kept me interested to the very end .
great stunts ( gives a new appreciation of the athletes in this sport ) wow !	this movie is not bad at all . some of the stunts these guys ( and girls ) do in Supercross is absolutely astounding . the way they flip in mid air and the heights they can reach . i have a new respect for these people . the stunts were mind blowing , but very realistic , as far as i could tell . there are some hot women in this movie , naturally . the acting is OK and to me , the plot is thin , but that is not the draw for this movie . the real reason to watch this movie , or any of the genre , are the amazing stunts these guys can do . to say they are talented is a huge understatement . i found this movie pretty exciting . it is only during the dramatic scenes that i didn't like it as much . i just wanted to see those stunts . thankfully , that is what most of the movie is . if you're a Supercross fan , you should love this movie . if you're not , you might still really enjoy it . at the very least , you should have a new appreciation for the athletes involved . my vote for " Supercross " :
entertaining spoof of the western genre and its conventions	i found this movie quite entertaining , and even amusing . i didn't think it was laugh out loud funny , ( i don't think it's that type of movie ) but it was still a good watch . it's a send up ( spoof ) of the western genre ) . one thing it pokes fun at is the strong macho image of the good guy . if you've seen many westerns , you'll get a lot of the jokes , some of which are accurate , and some of which exaggerate things a bit , or even a great deal . i've seen quite a few westerns , but even if you haven't seen even one , you'll likely still find the movie amusing . the movie is short , at under 90 minutes , and goes by very quickly . for me , Rustler's Rhapsody is an
lots of great action and superb fight scenes	OK , i won't waste much time getting into the specifics of the film . here's all you really need to know . great action with superb fight scenes . awesome twisted villain . Wesley snipes plays the lead character , a no nonsense , kick ass terrorist buster . Bruce Payne portrays the truly evil baddie named Charles Rayne who has hijacked a plane which Snipes character just happens to be on . too bad for for Rayne . . there are also great supporting performances , most notably from Liz Hurley in a departure of sorts ( as far as i know ) there's a bit more to the movie which briefly sets the stage in the beginning of the movie . after that , mayhem . - people are shot and or killed , and bad guy and underlings attempt to kick the crap out of the god guy without getting killed . it's obvious who wins of course , but the fun is in getting there . and i can't'n forget that there's some dark humour and great one liners . thrown in for good measure , if you like your action movies lean and mean , and to the point , without any excess baggage aboard , this is your movie . so , buckle up , it's gonna be a bumpy ride .
terrific , well acted suspense thriller with a few twists	" The Juror " is a well paced suspenseful film , with great performances from the two main actors , Alec Baldwin , and Demi Moore . the supporting cast includes Anne Heche , James Gandolfini and a young Joseph Gordon-Levitt . Demi Moore Plays Annie Laird , mother to Oliver , ( Levitt ) and also a juror juror in a high profile murder case against a mob leader . Annie is forced by a mob associate to convince the other jurors to render a verdict of non-guilty or her son or others she cares for will be harmed . the problem is , the jury is convinced of the guilt of the mobster and the evidence seems to indicate guilt . I won't say any more about the plot . i will say that what follows is loads of suspense and nail biting tension . Demi Moore is so convincing as the mother who feels helpless and Alec Baldwin is Brilliant as her tormentor . the movie doesn't end the way i thought it would ( and i mean that in a good way ) instead offering up a few twists i wasn't expecting right up until the final moments . A terrificly entertaining film , which relies ( very successfully ) on suspense and great performances .
better than the 3rd film in the series	Rocky 4 is a better movie than Rocky 3 . there is more depth to the story . The villain is a mush greater threat and there is more at stake . the is a second antagonist which Rocky must fight , but you will have to watch the movie to understand . the setting for the movie is also a positive . it is set in Russia in 1985 . the movie also has a moral which the three previous ones do not . this movie focuses much more om the training for the final fight than actual fight itself . the fight scenes are well done , but there is less realism . by that , i mean no man could tale any where near the punishment endured by Rocky and remain alive for the duration . other than that , the movie is well done . though not as good as Rocky2 , it is a close second to the original . A fine addition to the series .
pretty decent family viewing	this movie has the based on a true story tag , but i'm sure there were dramatic licenses taken . the people in the story are real and some of them are probably still around . that much is certain . beyond that , this movie makes for light , though pretty entertaining viewing . it does seem a bit far fetched at times , though . and the story is pretty thin . there is really nothing offensive about the movie that i can tell . there's is no foul language or nudity . there are a few intense scenes with animals that might be a bit too much for young children . i think the movie would be suitable for kids 10 or older , but parents should always use their discretion . overall , this is a fun movie the family could enjoy . for me , Wild America is
blew away my expectations	wow . going into this movie , my expectations were pretty low . i though it would be a decent movie , but not great . well , i don't no if it's great or not , but it's pretty darn close . this one has it all . sure , there's action , and quite a bit of it . and there also plenty of excitement to go along with it . and in liberal doses of humour coupled with the high intensity and suspense factor and you have one heck of a fun film . there are also the added elements of intrigue and mystery , which the previous had little of , if any . this is also the darkest installment up to that point . i think it is also the most ambitious of the six films . for me , this movie ranked right up there with the fourth installment The Voyage Home . there are some nail biting moments here . this movie is a for sure .
sequel to " Escape to Witch Mountain " and a bit better movie	in this follow up to " Escape to Witch Mountain " , Toni and Tia Malone ( Ike Eisenmann , Kim Richards ) , leave the safe confines of their home on Witch Mountain , to visit New York . They are a few years older and their psychic abilities have grown . once again an evil madman finds out about their powers and will stop at nothing to gain control of them . there is bit of a twist in this movie , which i liked . there is more humour in this than the first movie and there is more action . there are also a few scenes of mild peril , compared to the 1st one . the stakes are a lot higher in this one , not just for Toni and Tia , but the world . Toni and Tia are less naive this time around , so they provide better resistance against the bad guy . i really enjoyed this film , a bit more so than the 1st . if you liked " Escape to Witch Mountain " you should not be disappointed with this film . a strong
Hulk smash ! ! !	this is two stories in one . one is The Hulk against Wolverine , and the other is Hulk vs Thor . the first disc is Hulk vs Wolverine . i thought his feature was OK , but not great . the animation is great and there are some great characters besides the Hulk and Wolverine . we also have lady DeathStrike , which i love , as well Omega Red , Deadpool , and Sabretooth , all great villains . the action sequences are decent enough , though not stellar . i thought the story lacked a bit , and i was hoping for something more epic . as for Hulk vs Thor , to me , this is the better of the two . i liked the story better , the characters are more defined , the battle scenes between Hulk and Thor are epic , and the animation is outstanding . based on this feature alone , i think it's worth getting the package . right now , both stories are only sold together . down the road , they may be sold separately , in which case i would say , Hulk vs Thor is well worth the purchase , while i'd be a bit iffy on Hulk Vs Wolverine . right now , i would say , the package is worth buying for vs Thor alone .
Hilary Swank in an early role	this is the 4th movie in the Karate Kid series . however it has nothing to do with the previous 3 . the only character remaining is Mr Myagi . this time around Mr Myagi meets troubled teen Julie pierce ( Hliary Swank , before she was famous ) Julie having all kinds of Problem including being bullied at school by a guy , belonging to a pseudo military club on campus . Naturally she is trained how to fight . Anyway , through Myagi , Julie learns Karate and becomes a better person spiritually and learns how to respect herself and in the end regains her respect . i like the unique idea of the antagonist being a female and having a male as her enemy . i there are also some fight scenes which are done quite well , very low key and minimal violence . none of the fighting is graphic . the ending is also good and a bit surprising . it is predictable but not a typical ending for this kind of film . the film has echoes of the original obviously , especially the spiritual aspect and the lessons learned . it is not as good as the 1st movie , and certainly not as good as the 2nd . it is however , a giant leap forward compared to the underwhelming 3rd entry . this is a very entertaining under dog movie that is suitable for the whole family .
the movie is pretty good , the songs are crap	" kickboxer " is one of Jean Claude Van Damme's earlier and better efforts . for a fan of the martial arts , it should satisfy . there aren't a lot of fight scenes , but what there is - - is pretty good . there is however , complaint i do have with this movie , and it's not so much the movie itself . it's the sht songs in it . once again , we have bad songs by a band that wouldn't rate in the worst fleabag bar . if you can't have decent music ( and i use that word very loosely ) , don't have any music at all . i did like the training montages . i thought they were kind of cool to watch , although they are pretty much the same as in " Bloodsport " , a previous Van Damme Vehicle . i don't think this movie is as good as " Bloodsport " , but it is still entertaining . for me , " Kickboxer is a
better than Alien3	Alien Resurrection , while not as good as Alien and Aliens , is better than Alien 3 . true , it is fairly light in tone , and not a lot of suspense . however it has a very eclectic group of characters . Ripley is back . there is some humour in this series , much more than the other Alien films . there is lots of action , but less gore than Alien 3 . there are also some surprising revelations in this one . it is not as predictable as Alien 3 . the aliens have undergone a transformation in this movie , as they have in each film in the series . they have a capability which was not explored in the original 3 . there was talk at one time of a fourth sequel , but let's hope they leave the series as is - - on a high note .
home invasion nightmare	i wouldn't call this movie a horror movie in the usual sense . it's certainly a thriller , and it is terrifying . it's a lot like deliverance but it takes place an isolated area , with no none around for miles , except the psychopaths and their victims . this is a very disturbing movie , with lots of very coarse , and crude sexual language and strong sexual references . but the most disturbing thing is that the events could happen as they did in the movie . it's very authentic . the performances are terrific from everyone and the intensity is through the roof in this one . if you're squeamish or don't like strong language or sexual references , you might want to avoid this movie . once it gets going , it doesn't let up . but for me , Death Weekend is an
entertaining	while it's hard to say how accurate this depiction of Bruce Lee is , there's no denying it is entertaining . one thing that is probably depicted fairly accurately is the racism Lee faced from street punks to those in the entertainment industry , all of whom should have known better . but the movie also has it's lite side . there is some humour to lighten things up . the action sequences are done pretty well , but maybe a bit over the top . Jason Scoot Lee handles the role of Lee very well , even though he may not fit Lee physically . he is much larger than Lee was . Lauren Holley is good as Lee's love interest ( and eventual wife ) Linda Emery . Michael Learned is particularly good as the mother of Linda Emery who does not approve of the union of the two , because Lee is Asian and her daughter is white . no doubt there are things this movie leaves out , and many things which are changed to make it more appealing to audiences , if you look at it as entertainment , you shouldn't be disappointed . for me , Dragon : The Bruce Lee Story is an
funny , very funny	" Just Friends is a pretty good movie . it's funny , ( sometimes ridiculously so ) well acted and very well written . The basic plot is this : it is 1995 , And fat , sensitive and unpopular high school student Chris Brande ( Ryan Reynolds ) is about to reveal his true , deeper feelings for his longtime best friend Jamie Palamino ( Amy Smart ) . However , Chris becomes the victim of a horrible prank and is humiliated . on top of that he discovers that Jamie sees him a just a friend . So Chris leaves town and never looks back . flash forward 10 years , and Chris is a successful , rich ( and thin ) music executive who has no problem with the ladies . Through a series of events , Chris ends up back in his hometown . you can guess the rest . Anna Faris ( absolutely hysterical ) also stars in the movie as a ditsy , sex starved client of Chris's who ends up in tow with him back to his hometown . Aside from being a funny , well done movie , the movie also has a lesson to teach . however it is not preachy or heavy handed . the movie is also one of those rare examples of a film being funny , but not vulgar , or offensive or sick . ( Though those movies can be good too ) no potty humor here . summing up , i liked the movie a lot , much more than i thought i would .
stands well on its own merit , nearly as good as the original	after finally seeing the Omen ( 2006 version ) i have to say it is not as bad as i had thought it would be . as the two leads ambassador thorn and his wife , Liev Schrieber and Julia Styles are cast well . however , the child cast as Damien is not so well cast . he is more annoying than terrifying . Mia Farrow is brilliantly cast as the sinister nanny . Pete Postlewaite does quite well as the anguished Father Brennan , and David Thewlis is adequate as reporter Keith Jennings . now to the plot of the film . the movie follows the plot of the 1976 original structurally , with a few minor alteration within its composition . I won't go into all of these differences , but there is one noteworthy change i must mention . the death of Mrs Thorn is done in a much more subtle way than the original . this scene may be the one aspect of the remake that is superior to the original . it does retain much of the original Jerry Goldsmith music , which of course elevates its fright factor . as a stand alone movie , it is at times very effective and quite well done . as a remake it is nearly equal to the original . out of 10
focuses more on the human element	when i first saw this film in the theatres , i was not too impressed . the movie didn't have much of an impact . however , upon watching on DVD recently i have a different impression . i really liked it this time around . there are some terrifying scenes , which gave me goose bumps . I recently reviewed another movie with Tom Cruise , where i said that although he has screen presence , i didn't think he is a good actor . i may have to adjust my opinion on that subject , at least as far as this movie is concerned . in this movie Cruise plays the everyman , and does a very good job of it . he had me convinced . Dakota Fanning so far , seems to be quite talented , but she annoyed me little in this movie . i found her too whiny at times . Tim Robbins has what amounts to little more than a cameo , and was just used as a plot device . as for the movie , the effects were very good . there was CG used , but it's pretty seamless . the aliens were very well done . this movie is more character driven , then effects and noise . i put this movie way above " Independence Day " in terms of the alien Invasion genre . but then , that movie focused on special effects and spectacle more than anything else . for me " War of the Worlds is an
fun , but insubstantial	i can only speak for myself , but i enjoyed this movie . i thought it moved along at a good clip . Fred Ward was good as the title character , but Joel Grey was a real hoot as his Korean mentor Chiun . Wifred Brimley plays the head of the organisation that recruits Remo . Kate Mulgrew ( Captain Janeway in Star Trek Voyager ) is also in the movie . even though i liked the movie , i didn't fell it was very substantial , and after watching it , it felt incomplete . i suspect they were hoping to do a franchise , but the movie wasn't a commercial success , so they abandoned the idea . too bad , because it would have been good to see Remo progress in his training and take on new adventures . for me , Remo Williams : The Adventure Begins is an
i liked it	i really liked this TV show of Robin Hood . the acting is quite good , the stories are good , and the episodes are very well paced , not too fast , and not too slow . plus , as far as i can tell , this is a show the whole family can enjoy . it's not really violent . the fight scenes are more hokey than anything . but i mean that in a good way . it works in this case . plus i think it has a good moral , although it doesn't hit you over the head with it . each episode is a fun 25 minutes or so . apart from this , the only other Robin Hood i have seen is the 1938 film with Errol Flynn , which i also liked . Richard Greene plays the title character , and seems pretty natural in the role , in my opinion . the supporting players are also very good . all in all , a well done series .
well done	even thought this movie was made in 1938 , the picture and sound quality are excellent . there are also subtitles , which was good . the movie itself is funny , fast paced , and well acted . Bonita Granville plays the title character , and brings some sassiness to the role . i also liked the supporting cast , particularly her Sidekick Ted . i thought he had some funny lines . the chief of police was also a funny character . i thought the writing was good and i liked the story . even though the movie is 66 minutes , it didn't feel rushed or incomplete . it was well paced . this is the first of four movies in which Bonita Granville portrays Nancy , and if this any indication , i can't wait to watch the other three . for me Nancy Drew - - Detective is an
logic ? what's that ?	if you go into this movie , expecting logic and / or realism , you will be disappointed . it has almost neither of those elements . nor is it original . what it is , however , is wall to wall action , with death defying stunts and explosions galore . the acting is adequate , though it doesn't really mater here , as it ( and everything else ) takes a back seat to the spectacle . however , i will say that the casting of Morgan Freeman was a very inspired choice . you get to see him in a role quite different than usual for him , and you get to hear him say words you wouldn't normally hear from him . James McAvoy plays the hero , and does a flawless Shia Labeouf impression . Angelina Jolie plays a prominent role , and Terrence Stamp has what is pretty much a cameo appearance . as for the movie itself , it is intense , loud , and frenetic and there is one plot twist i didn't see coming , though most people probably will . anyway , found it to be a fun waste of time , thought not really memorable .
three words : Tommy Lee Jones	this action / thriller / murder mystery is directed By Andrew Davis ( Under Siege ) it is intended to be a Harrison Ford vehicle , but the movie is really owned by Tommy Lee Jones . Jones plays a U . S . Marshall on the trial of a a high profile , respected doctor ( Ford ) who finds himself accused of the murder of his wife ( Sela Ward ) . Jones brings some great intensity to role , yet at the same time he manages to be understated . not an easy task , but Jones is more than equal to the task . this movie is based The series of the same name from the 60's , but how accurate It is to its source material is anyones guess . obviously the film has been updated for contemporary audiences . the movie is quite exciting and fast paced , with some good suspenseful moments . there's also a few plot twists to keep you guessing . i rather enjoyed it . for me , " The Fugitive " is an
check this one out if you have a chance	this is a very cleverly written movie by Neil Simon . it's directed by Arthur Hiller . it's a ' everything that can go wrong does ' comedy . and it is funny . it's not dirty or filled with foul language , like many of our modern film use for laughs , or try to anyway . it stars jack Lemmon as a strait laced , high strung worry wart salesman , and Sandy Dennis as his down to earth calming influence wife . George Kellertman ( Lemmon ) and his wife ( Gwen ) are on a trip from small town life to the big city , ( New York ) where George has a very important interview that could put his career on the fast track . it should be aroutine trip . the only problem will be getting there . Neil Simon really has a gift for words . the dialogue i this is witty , intelligent and sharp . the words just seem to flow smoothly , whether it's subtle conversation or rapid fire interplay between George nd Gwen , or themselves and others . But Lemmon and Dennis deserve a lot of credit . they work perfectly off each other . bringing realism to the characters and sympathy . whoever cast these 2 together hopefully got a huge bonus for doing so . there are also some funny cameo appearances by some stars of the day . this is one terrific little movie . it's charming and warm and has heart . it may be low key , but it works . i vaguely remember watching the remake with Steve Martin and Goldie Hawn and being less than impressed . for me , the original " The Out of Towners " is a definite
under-appreciated man floats away in deck chair to a new life	what a gem this movie is . i had seen it advertised several times , and thought it would be boring . however , it happened to be on today , and there was nothing else on , so i thought i'd take a chance . boy , am i glad i did . this movie has a very original premise , great characters , good writing , and good acting . the movie basically tells the story of Danny Morgan ( Rhys Ifans ) a cement worker who finds out his girlfriend thinks very lowly of him and may have cheated on him . anyway , long story short , Danny ends up floating away in a deck chair to a new life . i won't say any more because i don't want to spoil it . let's just say Danny meets some new people and learns some life altering lessons . this is a romantic comedy of sorts , but 1 that most guys would appreciate and enjoy . the beautiful Miranda Otto plays the romantic interest . the romance isn't the heart of the movie , though . the movie is concerned more with the life of Danny ( Ifans ) and those who he meets on his travel . this is a small Australian movie , and it proves you don't need a huge budget or big name stars to make a movie work . but you do need an original story with likable characters , which this one has . if you have a chance to see this movie , i urge you to do so .
not quite up to the standard of " The Mummy " films , but still rates pretty high	this film is a prequel to both of " The Mummy " films stars " The Rock ( Dwayne Johnson ) in the title role . i don't think this film measures up to either of the two " Muumy " films , but it's still pretty good . the fight scenes are quite good , there is some humour , tons of action and good acting . The Rock actually impressed me with his acting ability . he showed a lot of potential in this film and didn't stink up the theatre , as i thought he would . this movie doesn't have a lot to do with the previous entries . the story is quite a bit different . there is a lot more mysticism and romance and none of the main characters from the first two have returned for this movie . this is really The Rock's movie , and he has to carry it . he does a pretty good job for his first big starring feature . though not as good as the two " Mummy " films , tit still rates high in my book . for me , " The Scorpion King " is a solid
it's a heart thumper ,	but it's also thought provoking . it makes you wonder what you might do if a similar scenario were to occur . how would you react ? would you resist , or would you quietly accept your fate . i liked the movie , myself . i'm not usually a fan of Nicole Kidman , but i liked her in this movie . i wish Daniel Craig had had a more significant role . he really didn't have a lot to do . there are a lot of intense moments in the film , lots of action . in fact , the film focuses more on action than the psychology of the events taking place . had it been the other way around , this would have been a very different movie . i still liked it . i'm not sure why it did so poorly at the box office . it's very relevant in today's climate . for me , The Invasion is an
touching	i found this romantic drama to be a pleasant surprise . it's well written , with good dialogue . the acting , especially from the principles , Hilary Swank , and Gerard Butler is terrific . the movie is very touching and tender , without being depressing , and there are even some humorous moments . i also found it authentic for the most part . there are a few things i didn't like . one of them was Lisa Kudro's character . i found her vulgar and crude , and whenever she was on screen , she changed the tenor of the movie , not in a good way . there were also a few scenes which i thought cheapened thew movie a bit . you'll know what i mean if you watch the movie . i also didn't buy the friendship between Holly ( Swank ) and that of Kudro's and Gina Gershon's characters . they just seemed out of place to me . i think it is a case of miscasting . despite the problems with the the movie , i still found it worth watching . i give P . S . I Love You an
shy man becomes ventriloquist , gains self confidence	" Dummy " is basically the story of a shy man who takes up ventriloquism and gains confidence in life . his friend is an unestablished singer in a band who dreams of making it big . Steven ( Brody ) still lives at home with his parents and his sister Heid . i ( Illeana Douglas ) to say his family is dysfunctional is an understatement . Milla Jovovvich plays Fangora Steven's friend and aspiring singer . she lives with her mother , who is a total bch and seems to think the only reason Fangora is around is to run errands for her . Vera Farmiga plays Lorena , who works in the employment office where Steven Shows up one day after being fired from his job . Farmiga puts in another great performance . She has built a career out of small , sometimes supporting character roles . regardless , she is possibly the most underrated actress out there . as for Jovovich , she is barely recognizable in a very unglamorous , tomboy kind of role , but she pulls it off convincingly . overall this movie is a real gem and should not be missed . if you haven't seen it , you should do so . a very strong
pretty good suspense thriller	i enjoyed this movie . it has suspense , action , drama , and decent acting . it has a pretty dark tone to it , which i liked . while it have the same high octane adrenaline rush of " Joy Ride " which also starred Leelee Sobieski and also came out the same year , it's still pretty good in its own right . there's more of a slow build up to tension in this movie . i also think this movie demands a bit mote of its actors , especially for the the quiet dramatic moments . the cast acquit themselves fairly well here . the movie is fairly well written , though not wholly original ( but there are some original elements to it ) for me " The Glass House " is an
i found it suspenseful and unpredictable ( i liked it )	you know , i really liked this movie . i thought it was suspenseful and exciting , with some twists i didn't see coming . i also didn't see the ending coming either , which , for me , is a good thing in a movie . there are a number of suspects in the movie and it really keeps you guessing . i also like Kim Delaney a lot . i think she's a pretty decent actress . i'm still not sure why she was let go from CSI : Miami , but that's another story . she plays the lead in this movie , a thriller writer named Kate Saunders . Kate begins receiving these strange e-mails from someone calling himself Thrillkill . Thrillkill has apparently been inspired by a villain in one of Kate's novels . his messages even claim he was created by Kate . Thrillkil begins killing women in exactly the same way as the villain in Kate's novels . i won't say anymore about the plot . lets just say what follows is suspense and excitement , and some twists . i liked " Closer and Closer " quite a bit . for me , it's a strong
good movie , but i thought the original was a bit better	this almost exactly the same as the original 1939 version , yet i found it a bit slow and not quite as compelling . Gary Sinise directed and stars in the movie , along with John Malkovich . Sinise is very good as Gary , one half of a drifter duo , who travel the countryside looking for work and trying too stay out of trouble . Malkovich is mesmerizing in the role of Lenny the large man with the intellect of a child . Lenny is the reason they must keep moving . Gary tires to keep him out of trouble , but when that fails , they must movie on . i found this version lighter in tone than the original , but again , it is also tragic , just like the original . it's a good movie , but i just didn't like it as much as the original . for me , Of Mice and Men is an
Kirk Douglas is great as Doc Holliday	i thought this was a good movie . the actual gunfight referred to in the movie is a very small part and happens close to the end . most of the movie is a buildup to that point . we get to know the characters and their motivations . The character of Wyatt Earp is portrayed by Burt Lancaster , and it took me awhile to warm up to his characterization , but eventually he won me over . Kirk Douglas plays Doc Holliday and he is brilliant . his charisma just jumps off the screen . Deforest Kelley plays one of the Earp brothers and a very young Dennis Hopper plays one of the Clanton gang . i liked the fact that the story was developed . it moves at a good pace , and i never found it boring .
a different type of Sherlock Holmes movie	though i haven't seen every Sherlock Holmes movie ever made , i have seen a few , and this one is much different . i found it darker in tone , and with a very compelling story . it also delves deeper into the character of Holmes , in a personal light . i liked the story and i also liked the acting . i had not seen a Billy Wilder film before , and probably never would have , if it weren't for this being a Sherlock Holmes movie . but i thought his was a well done movie . there's a definite sadness to it that isn't in any of the other Holmes movies i have seen . there a few comic bits . actually more like dark humour . it's around 2 hours in length , but doesn't feel long at all . for me , The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes is an
witty and stylish	for a period movie , i felt this was more lite hearted than most . i found it witty , even funny at times . it movies along at a good pace , and is never boring . the movie is also virtually very nice to look at . even though the overall tone of the film is fairly lite , it does treat the more serious issues with the darker tone the deserve . much of the music for the movie is contemporary , which might not work for some people , but i didn't mind it . at first , i didn't care for much of the acting , but the performances grew on me quickly . Kirtsen Dunst shines in the title role . Jason Schwartzman is also good . in a what seems a strange casting choice , Rip Torn also appears in the movie . but Torn makes his character work . though i thought this movie was exceedingly entertaining , i wish the ending had been different . it just didn't work for me . many people may not liker the fact that the movie is done in a lite hearted way , but that didn't bother me here . if it wasn't for the ending , i would have given this movie a higher vote . but as it stands , i give Mare Antoinette an
good tension filled , high pressure movie	this is one movie that doesn't hold back in its depiction of a racist , ignorant pig who also happens to be a psychopath . this movie is not for the faint of heart . Charles Sheen puts in very convincing performance as a firefighter named Lyle Wilder , who in public is a hero but in reality is is a very unhinged deranged nut case with serious mental issues . in short , he's a loon , and a deadly one at that . Mare Winningham plays the mother of the family that is lucky enough to be his neighbour . i don't recall this movie being in theatres , but it's not listed as being straight to video . anyway , Winningham is good in her role and plays her character as very understated . i have to make special mention of two other actors in this movie . that would be John Ratzenberger ( Cliff , from " Cheers " fame ) and Dawn Lewis ( Jaleesa from the sitcom " A Different World ) who play the two police officers who end up dealing with Wilder ( Sheen ) . both were very impressive in fairly small roles . i though they were both standouts . i had never seen either in a serious role , and they seemed to fit their characters like a glove . the movie itself is tense , to say the least and you are really waiting for the pressure to burst and the psycho to come completely unraveled , which he does . in my mind , this is a pretty good movie . for me , " Bad Day on the Block " AKA " Under pressure is an
what is so bad about this movie ? c'mon people	i fail to see what was so wrong about this movie . the low rating ( on this site ) doesn't do it justice . i know the studio did little or no advance viewings or promotion . i'm guessing people jumped on the bandwagon , making sure they slammed it in earshot of every one they knew , before even seeing . trust me , there's a lot worse movies out there than this , many of which should never have been made , let alone released . this movie had action , some romance , some humour and excitement yes this is not Sean Connery's finest hour as he is way over the top . and yes , there are a couple of pretty absurd scenes . but honestly , it's not that bad a movie . i was very entertained . Uma Thurman was in it , for crying out loud . and in a skintight black leather outfit . what more do you need ? OK , that last part would appeal mostly to guys , but still . i am definitely bucking a trend here and giving " The Avengers " an
A very well executed murder mystery comedy from Woody Allen	having only seen one Woody Allen Movie prior to this , ( Purple Rose of Cairo ) and years ago , i didn't know what to expect . i was very impressed with this movie . i liked the directing style and the writing . Allen wrote directed , and starred in the movie . Scoop is a murder mystery comedy starring Scarlett Johansson , Hugh Jackman and Allen himself . Johansson plays Sondra Pransky , an American journalism student ( visiting London ) who receives a major scoop about a series of murders in London . Allen plays Sid Waterman a quirky , nervous , magician , who Sondra meets while participating in one of his tricks . it is here that Sondra receives the Scoop . Sondra drags Sid into the mystery and together they look for clues about the murders . Along the way , they meet Peter Lyman ( Hugh Jackman ) son of Lord Lyamn ( Julian Glover ) who plays a prominent role in the mystery . Ian McShane has a small but pivotal cameo . at first , Allen is annoying and grating what with his quirky mannerisms and all ( stuttering , fast talking hyper activity , nervousness ) but he quickly becomes very endearing . Allen is very quick with the wit in this movie and he's so natural at it . Scarlett Johansson also has some funny lines and her and Allen work off each other brilliantly , there is no denying the chemistry between them . the whole movie is very well written , with sharp , crisp dialogue all through . the method in which Sondra receives the scoop is ingenious , but i won't reveal it here . the movie is very low key and subtle but very effective . a strong
Streep is brilliant	this is one very good movie . it's all about love and loss , two pretty heavy themes . it's not at all depressing , but there's a lot of depth her , bot to the story and to the performance of Meryl Streep . there are good supporting performances , such as Renee Zellwegger , and William Hurt . James Ekhouse ( The dad from the Original Bevery hills 90210 ) who i really like as an actor , has a small role , as does Tom Everett Scott . but the movie belongs to Streep , who who is brilliant here . also the makeup artists did brilliant work here , as well . this is no lite drama . it's pretty thought provoking . it's pretty intense , so it's not for everyone . but if heavy drama is your thing , you might want to check out this movie .
lite hearted and funny western romp	this was a fun , mostly lite heated western romp . the emphasis is on comedy here , but there is also plenty of action . this is also a musical of sorts , with some great songs sung by Stubby Kaye and Nat King Cole . the movie starts off as Cat Ballou ( Jane Fonda ) waits to be hanged . from there , though , we get a flashback that tells of us of the events that led up to that point . for me , this was an action packed comedic movie . there are a few dark moments , but not too many . aside from Jane Fonda in the title role , Lee Marvin stars as a former gunfighter , but now a washed up drunk . i thought he was very amusing . the rest of the supporting cast is also good , providing some more comedic moments . for me , this was a fun , and fast paced western well worth watching .
stylish	this is one stylish take on the Dracula mythos . it certainly looks great . Gerard Butler is great as the tile character . this next sentence could be deemed a major spoileras far as i know this is the first movie about Dracula which puts a biblical slant on his origin . if you're Christian , especially Catholic , there's a lot in this movie that might offend you . in fact , the movie pretty much bashes ( subtly , if that's possible ) all things Catholic . for myself , i wasn't offended by it at all . i liked the new slant on an old idea . this is quite a dark movie , but it does have splashes of macabre humour throughout . the music was also great . all in all , it's lots of fun
way , way above average for this genre	this is a really good TV mini-series . it starts off really slow though . but once it gets going , it really improves . you get little hints at a time of what's happening , so you really get hooked . for an alien invasion movie , this one is low key and on a lower scope . this is not a criticism , and if you watch the movie , you'll know what i mean . i really got caught up in this thing . the special effects are not spectacular , but they aren't bad enough to take away from the movie . believe me , there are a lot worse in that dept . the strong part of this movie is the story and the acting of Daryl Hannah . she puts in a very strong performance in this movie . as for the story itself , while it may not be wholly unique , it is well written and well paced . the only thing i was disappointed in is the ending . it wasn't a bad ending , but it just seemed anti-climatic and not that realistic . otherwise , a very good movie . i highly recommend it . for me , " Final Days of Planet Earth " is an
low budget , but creepy and suspenseful	WithIN aka " The Cavern " starts off slow and has some dialogue and scenes in the beginning which should have been cut from the movie , as they weren't necessary . however , once it gets going , it's actually not a bad movie . i liked the camera work , especially the tight shots in the cavern . also in certain scenes it was hard to tell it where the characters were or if they were moving up or down . this was done deliberately to keep the viewer off balance and uneasy . it worked quite well as i was unsettled throughout most of the movie . the movie also had sort of a documentary style to it , which i thought added to the atmosphere and gave it a more authentic feel and i liked the inventive use of the camera . i'm fairly sure it had a very modest budget , yet that didn't detract from the quality of the film . i didn't recognize any of the actors , but they all did a good job and were believable . this was good , since big name actors would have taken the focus away from the story , and taken the viewer out of the movie . the cavern wasn't a particularly scary movie , but it was creepy and suspenseful . I don't recall seeing anything quite like it . there are some scenes which may be a bit to gory for some people and there is one fairly intense violent scene . the ending was different than i expected , but not in a bad way . the filmmakers managed to fit a lot into the short running time , but i still believe it could have been a bit longer . otherwise , a pretty good , not quite great movie that will keep you entertained . i bought it and have no regrets . definitely worth renting , at least .
Disturbing behavior-to say the least	Disturbing behavior is the tale of a small coastal town where once unruly teens are transformed into academic geniuses . even stranger is that they all dress the same , join the same clubs , act the same . like soulless automatons . when Steve Clark ( James Marsden ) moves into town , he makes friends with the three misfits : Rachel Wagner ( Katie Holmes ) , Gavin Strick ( Nick Stahl ) and U . V ( Chad Donela ) . once the three realize the reason for the abrupt behavior changes , they must find a way to stop it , before they are next . Bruce Greenwood , ( Thirteen Days , Deja Vu ) William Sadler , ( The Green Mile , Hard to Kill , Ethan Embry ( Harold and Kumar go to White Castle , Sweet Home Alabama ) and Katherine Isabelle ( Earthsea , Insomnia ) also have roles in the film . i thought this was a pretty good film . the premise is not original , but so what . the movie is very dark and will be thought provoking for some , while others will simply enjoy it for it's entertainment value . either way , it's worth watching .
a fresh approach to the the alien invasion theme	i mostly enjoyed this sci / fi entry . the take on the alien ( if that's what they are ) invasion concept is done differently here than in other movies / TV shows of the genre . the concept is clever , the script is well written , and the suspense builds at just the right pace . right from the get go , curious things happen in the town , with more than one explanation offered . as more and more people begin to suspect something is wrong , things really heat up ( the only minor quibble i have is that there did tend to be some repetitiveness at times ) . hard to believe this gem was created by Shaun Cassidy , former 70's teen heartthrob . but Cassidy has come up with an original , inventive show that i wish had found an audience , and lasted more than one season . the way the series ended was quite the cliffhanger , and so there is no resolution . you will have to use your imagination . anyway , i enjoyed the show , and would recommend it to others . for me , Invasion is an
TV news anchor faces moral dilemma	this movie basically about a moral and ethical dilemma facing a popular news anchor . martin Sheen Plays news anchor Frank Kenley , newly hired by a news station flailing in low ratings . Kenley is brought on board because he is respected int thee field , and it is hoped he will bring the stations ratings up . things go well , until Frank is faced with moral dilemma , whether to go public with some information that may damage a certain individual'd reputation , or withhold the information , and not letting the public know the story , possibly endangering others in the process . Kendry is faced with 2 obstacles - rookie reporter / co anchor Christine Arnold ( Sheree . J . Wilson ) whose enthusiasm and inexperience only make things worse-and his boss Eric Ross ( Peter Riegert ) who has no moral centre and will do whatever it takes to increase ratings , no matter who gets hurt . this is a made for TV movie ( 1985 ) but it is pretty well done . good acting all around and an important issue : morals and ethics . this can be applied to life in general , not just in the news room and you can't help but think about it after the credits roll . i've said this before , i don't normally go in for issue and moral type movies , but this movie is also entertaining , and well done .
very entertaining movie with likable characters	call me crazy , but i enjoyed this movie . it won't win any awards or anything , but it is is entertaining and well paced . the acting is okay for this type of movie . it feels like a made for TV movie , but that's not necessarily a bad thing . from watching it , i got the impression it is a sequel , since they showed some flashbacks involving one of the main characters . i found out later that it is a sequel to " the Savage Bees " . but it works well on its own , although i do plan on seeing the prequel sometime . if your looking for lots of tension and suspense , you won't find too much here , although there are one or two mildly suspenseful moments . i think the appeal of this movie is the likability of the characters . also it moves at a decent pace and isn't at all boring . i give " Terror Out of the Sky "
better than average for the genre	this movie is similar plot wise to two other films in the genre . very similar to 2003's Darkness Falls and to a lesser extent 2002's They . however , i felt that Boogeyman had a well developed back story , which the other are lacking , in my opinion . i also felt there was more depth to this story and a dark sinister feel . there are seems to me to be a subplot which suggests there's more going on . but i could be out to lunch here . it wouldn't be the first time . i found the creature was much more evil by what's implied , more than what's shown . i sorta wish they had developed this area even a bit more . but at least they give subtle clues to the monster's origin . as for the ending , i thought it was decent enough for the genre , although nothing is really resolved . but i thought there were other reasons this film works . the first is the casting of Emily Deschanel , who plays the role of Kate , former childhood friend of Tim , the lead character . i felt she really had some screen presence presence , plus some good emotional depth and range . i realize this genre of film isn't the best indicator of acting ability , but i noticed it anyway another reason i thought this movie stood out is the performance of young Skye McCole Bartusiak . i will refer to her simply as Skye from hereon due to her long name . Skye plays a pivotal role in the film , which i will not give away . the astonishing thing about her performance is her young age . i thought she had great depth and range for someone so young . n my mind , the film is elevated by these two performances . as an aside , Emily can now be seen in the forensic themed TV show Bones as one of the the lead characters . any way back to the movie . my overall overall impression is that the movie is better than average for its genre-very spooky at times to-be sure . and even without some great acting , i think this is still an effective movie . anyway , for me , this movie is much more than a standard horror film . but that's just me . i think Boogeyman is a
I quite enjoyed it ( a good family film )	this is a good movie . it is directed by Kirk Jones , writer and director of " Waking Ned Devine " it has something for everyone . mild rude humour for the kids , bit of romance for the adults . okay maybe teens won't like it . It is a fantasy movie , so it obviously much of it is not realistic of course . it echoes 1964's sound of music , but is more complex and has more depth . Ther are some dark moments which may be a little frightening for really young children , so use your discretion . the film is very colourful and well photographed . The acting is very good , although this not a film where the actors had to dig deep to find their characters . Anyway , Mr . Brown ( Colin Firth - " Bridget Jonse's Diary 1 and 2 " , " Love Actually " ) has a problem . he is a single father with 7 uncontrollable children . They have managed to drive away every Nanny he has hired , usually in days or less . the local Nanny agency will no longer supply him with a nanny telling him at one point something along the lines of " they're all gone " , you've driven them all away " . So , one day , in walks the mysterious Nanny Mcphee ( Emma Thompson , Love actually , " Stranger Than Fiction " , also wrote the screenplay based on the children's novels " Nurse Matilda , by Christianna Brand ) . but she is no ordinary Nanny , as is quickly revealed . what follows is chaos , comedy romance until what should by now be the obvious ending . the beautiful and very talented Kelly Macdonald ( " Finding Neverland " , " The Girl in the Cafe " plays the love interest . Angela Lansbury also appears in the movie as does Imelda Staunton . overall , a fun family film .
i thought it was as good as the original , but definitely not for the squeamish	this sequel to " The Fly " isn't all that bad , all things considered . it is however , more disgusting , believe it or not . a lot of the really gross stuff was overkill and gratuitous , i thought . in the original , the gross scenes were sort of necessary to the story . not so in this movie . also found the movie to have some slow spots at times , which in my mind , took away from the flow of the story . as well , this movie had a slicker more polished look than the original , which i think kind of takes away from the effect . the acting is not bad , and i liked the direction the story went . i really liked the ironic ending . i won't give it away , but let's just say that one S . OB really got what he deserved . i actually almost cheered at this . if you watch the movie , you'll know why . a word of caution : this movie is definitely not for the squeamish . for me , overall , i'd say i liked this movie as well as the first one . therefore , i give " The Fly 2 "
the creeper returns	" jeepers creepers 2 " is what jeepers creepers 1 should have been-a good movie . there are plenty of hair raising moments in the movie , and enough action to keep the movie going . the acting was good , for the most part and the look of the " creeper " was well done . jonathan breck was great as the title character . ( the creeper ) this a case where the sequel far surpasses the original in all respects . whereas the original was lame i . e boring and stupid , with no scares to mention , number two was neither lame , boring or stupid , but a genuinely creepy movie . the original also tended to be downright disgusting at times , where this movie relied more on suspense rather than some lame attempt at shock value . if a movie is well made , there is no need to gross out the audience . also , this movie will stick with you long after you watch it and for all the right reasons . the only thing that really lingers from the original is how sick it was-and not in a good way . as well , you can easily watch this movie without first subjecting yourself to the original . it stands on it own as an original movie . rent ( or buy ) this movie , you won't regret it . avoid the original . it should never have been made , and the fact that it was is the only scary thing about it
not hard to follow , but the script blew up in the first of way too many explosions	this movie is a different beast than the first one . oh , sure , it has some of the same characters and is also a spy movie / secret agent film . whereas the first one was so convoluted , you needed a map to follow it , this sequel doesn't suffer from that same deficiency . it's much easier to follow alright . the reason being that they sacrificed story and character for nothing but wall to wall action . now , i'm all for action , but not at the expense of everything else . when this was over , i felt liked i'd been in the Iron Man Triathlon . not only that , but there is next to now believability in this , at least in the stunt dept . the could have made the costumer's job a lot easier by having the characters all wear a red cape and blue underwear . at least there would have been some believability . also , it seems everything in the movie blew up somewhere along the way . i think the script blew up as well . certainly this movie was more exciting than the first one , but there be some balance . i'll give " Mission Impossible 2 a
can be purchased on it's own without buying a collection	i don't actually enjoy the show MythBusters , but this episode intrigued me . i thought it would be really interesting to see if some of the things they do in the movies could be plausible or even possible . these guys really do their research and they leave nothing to chance . they try really hard to replicate the conditions as they would be in the movies . it's possible that they may overlook something , but it's not for lack of trying , and nobodie's perfect . anyway i was a bit surprised at some of their results . turns out some of the movie myths could actually happen ( or at least be possible ) like they are portrayed on the big screen . and there are some things that just would not happen , or at least wouldn't be practical . for me , this was a very highly entertaining episode Of Mythbusters . and if you don't particularly like the show itself , you can purchase this particular episode on it own . for me , MythBusters : Mega Movie Myths is an
surprisingly entertaining	i was surprised about this movie . it was much more entertaining than i though it would be . it also moves along at a good pace . Joaquin Phoenix's character is the main focus of the story , but i think John Travolta steals the show . he has less screen time , but he gives a very credible and commanding performance . Robert Patrick is also in the movie , although he doesn't have a substantial role . still , i thought he was great with the scenes he had . he is one of the most underrated actors out there , in my book . Phoenix does a god job as the main character , bu like i said , this movie is Travolta all the way . anyway , there is one scene in the movie which is a bit of a downer . other than that though , for entertainment value you can't beat his movie . my vote for Ladder 49 is a
what if ?	this was a well done movie dealing with big brother , invasion of privacy and conspiracy theory . it poses the question what if the conspiracy theories with government tracking you every movie and knowing all your intimate details were actually true . what if they could erase your life in an instant . Will Smith plays an ordinary joe , who is Caitrin up , through no fault of his own in just that scenario . if you have any paranoia regarding , this sort of thing , this movie will heighten it . i don't think it's completely realistic . some things are added for dramatic affect and to heighten tension and keep the story moving . nevertheless , it is thought provoking . it poses the question what would you do in this situation . it's also very exciting at times . Gene Hackman John Voigt and Lisa Bonet also star . for me , Enemy of the State is a solid
echoes of John Ford's The Searchers	this western reminded me a great deal of John Ford's epic western The Searchers , ( 1956 ) both style wise and story wise . this film has some mysticism added in to the mix , which The Searchers does not . this may be blasphemous to some , but i liked The Missing more . The Missing is a fairly deliberately paced movie , with pockets of action here and there . i liked Tommy Lee Jones's character a lot . i found him very interesting . he plays Samuel Jones / Chaa-duu-ba-its-iidan . he is the estranged father of Cate Blanchett's character , Maggie . Sam spent a lot of time with the native indians , hence his Indian name . anyway , i really liked the look and style of the film , and the story . you have to have patience to watch it , but it is well worth sitting through to the end
the best of the Michael Myers movies	( this is actually the third Michael Myers film i ) found Halloween 4 : the Return of Michael Myers to be a better movie than the first two Michael Myers movies . i actually felt there were some tense and suspenseful moments in this one , unlike the previous two . i'm not including number three here , because it is a stand alone movie that has nothing to do with the Michael Myers character . the movie also has a much eerier feel to it . i also thought the acting was actually pretty good in this one . in the first two , i didn't think too much of the acting . even though i found the movie to be good overall , the best part for me , was the ending . i thought it was great . maybe predictable , but still great . for , me this movie came closest in the series to delivering the goods for this genre . i didn't find it scary , but like i said , it was tense and suspenseful , and had a great atmosphere . for me , Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers is an
very good movie set during the time of the second World War	" Charlotte Gray " takes place during the second World War . Charlotte becomes a courier in France , to help the war effort . but she has her own reasons for joining . being a courier is a dangerous job and most do not survive . the movie , while not depressing , is certainly sad at times . it is quite compelling and well written , and very well acted . Cate Blanchett is an extraordinary actress . it's hard to take your eyes . she is very beautiful , but also talented beyond belief . there are some other great actors in the movie as well . this is one of the better war tome movie out there . i say war time because , although the movie takes place during the second World War , we don't see a lot of the war action . we do , however , get to see its results . for me , " Charlotte Gray " is a very good movie . i give it a strong
enjoyable animated family fare from Disney	this film has something for everyone , in my opinion . there's comedy , action , excitement . the movie is also inspirational and uplifting , but without being overbearing . there are also some references to other popular movies . i also thought all the characters were likable , even the bad guy , who isn't really bad . he's more misunderstood and harmless . he's also fairly inept as a villain , in a funny way . his plans are basically a comedy of errors . there's a time travel plot at the core of the movie . and there a few unexpected twists as well . there's a good moral to the movie , which i didn't feel was preachy at all , a refreshing quality for this type of movie . and finally , i liked the music a lot . there are some great songs here , something i find lacking in many movies . for me , Meet The Robinsons is an
very well done , suspenseful TV movie	as a made for TV movie , this is actually quite good . the acting , especially by Kristy Swanson is above par . she makes a credible protagonist . the movie has plenty of suspense and is less predictable than most . the story concerns a woman ( Swanson ) who , despite years of therapy is still haunted with nightmares / memories of a traumatic childhood event . it turns out there is a mystery behind it all , and Alexandra must discover the truth before it's too late . there are a few suspects who could be the villain ( along with a few scenarios ) and , though i did eventually figure out the mystery and the villain , it took longer than i thought it would . even so , i wasn't completely sure until almost the end . to me , this is a sign of a good mystery movie . i'd recommend this movie to anyone , who wants a movie with some intelligence behind it . i give " Forbidden Secrets " a strong
Roland Emmerich and co . redeem themselves after independence day	i really enjoyed this movie . the filmmakers took an old premise and added a new twist : Godzilla in Manhattan . in this movie , Godzilla looks very realistic . beyond that , however there are some other great positives to this movie . the acting is believable , in part because the writing is much better than it was in independence day , which ironically had some of the same writers . this movie has no maudlin speeches , and things are kept low key here . the monster becomes , as the movie goes along , sympathetic up to a point , and almost humanized , which i thought was a nice touch and worked brilliantly . the motives for its destructive rampage are revealed as something more than just creating mindless carnage . you can feel the pain the creature endures , both physical and emotional . i actually felt sorry for the beast and its inevitable fate . of course the ending was designed as a lead in to the almost certainly inevitable sequel . but given the disappointing box office , a sequel did not happen and likely will not . Roland Emmerich , who also directed Independence Day , redeems himself with this effort . the writers , some of whom also had a hand in Independence Day , also deserve credit for this movie . they got it right this time . it is ironic that movie goers turned out in droves for Independence Day , yet largely ignored Godzilla , which i think is a superior film in every way . go figure .
animated hi-jinx and adventure during ( what else ) the ice age	if you have a pulse and can fog up a mirror , you should like this movie . it an animated ( in 3d ) movie that takes place during the ice age . it's a comedy , action , adventure flick that is very fast paced , and a lot of fun for both kids and adults . there are quite a few good laughs in this movie . the voice casting is brilliant . Ray Ramano , Legiuzama , and Dennis Leary , among others provide the voice work . this one of the funnier animated movies in along time . it is rated g , so the whole family can enjoy it . as far as i can tell , there is nothing which should be offensive or unsuitable for children . my advice , gather the family around , pop in the DVD and enjoy .
very fine movie " based on " the life of Primate expert Dian Fossey	this movie is based on the life of Dian Fossey and her work with the gorillas in a remote part of Africa . " based on " usually means that some of the content is true and parts of it are fictionalized for dramatic effect . for sure Dian Fossey did work with gorillas in Africa and was instrumental in the increase of their population . some of the details may have been altered , but the gist of the story is true . i thought it was a very entertaining , touching and heartbreaking story . i think Sigourney weaver did a great job as Dian Fossey . she really brought some passion to the character . the movie was also thought provoking and i actually became angry more than a few times about some of the incidents that occurred . i find it rare to become so actively involved with a movie nowadays . for me " Gorillas in the Mist " is at a strong
fun for the whole family	i thought his movie was quite good . it's loaded with some great laughs , it's heartwarming , and it's original . Tim Allen is in fine comedic form here , way back in 1994 . this is truly a movie the whole family can enjoy . the jokes are appealing to both kids and adults . my sister and both laughed quite hard more than a few times . the movie moves at a quick pace , so you don't really get to know the characters that well . but for this movie , that's OK . you get all the information you need for the story . it's also nice to see a movie like this that isn't preachy . sure there's a message , but it's subtle , and not the main focus of the film . for me , the Santa Clause is a .
quite decent suspense thriller from the 70's	this is a pretty good suspense thriller from the 70s . it's about a group of armed gunmen who take over a subway train and hold the passengers hostage , demanding 1million dollar ransom for their safe return . the film takes place in New York . i really loved some of the accents , and i don't mean that in a bad way . i also found it amusing how some of the characters behaved in the film . for example one of the men most responsible for keeping the trains running , is a complete jerk and cares more about the train than the passengers . also , it was comical to see the mayor of New york bitch and moan about 1 million dollars , saying they didn't have that kind of money . that's absurd . true , a million dollars was more back than , compared to today , but this is New York we're talking about . anyway , i'm about to go off on a tangent , so i better move on . the movie has some suspense and has 1 really thrilling sequence . there's no big explosions or anything like that . this movie is much simpler . there are some big names from that time in the movie , and all have good performances . but i especially liked Walter Matthau . i had never seen him in a dramatic role before . the last movie i saw him in was the comedy " Grumpy OLd Men " ( and it's sequel ) with Jack Lemmon . some people may find this movie slow compared to today , or quaint even , which is probably true , to some degree , but i liked it . For me , " The Taking Of Pelham One Two Three " is an
good , wholesome , squeaky clean fun	this movie may be squeaky clean entertainment , but that's not a bad thing . for every teenager who's always who wishes their parents could be in their shoes , and every adult who wishes their teenager could see things from their point of view , this is your movie . minor spoilerteenage Annabelle and her mother get to switch places ( literally ) , or at least bodies , and see how what the other side lives . along the way , there's some comic moments , and revelations . i think the movie is just as relevant today as it was then . society has changed quite a bit since then , it's true , and woman today have different dreams and aspirations , but the basic premise is still relevant . it's certainly interesting to see Jodie Foster as a young teenager over 30 years ago . as for the movie itself , it's funny , fast paced and fun for the whole family . my vote for Freaky Friday is an
thought provoking and insightful	while i don't like this entry of the Law and Order franchise as much as Special Victims Unit , i still think it is pretty good . i like it more than the original series . this entry is much more thought provoking than the other two . it's more into the psychology of things , which can be very compelling sometimes . we sort of gain some insight into criminal behaviour , at least from the perspective of the show . the characters are fairly interesting , but not as interesting as SVU . i haven't seen the show for awhile , but from what i have seen , the show doesn't delve too deeply in to the lives of the main characters . it sort of lends and air of mystery to things . when all is said and one , Law and Order : CI is a fairly well written , interesting show . for me , it's an
classic action / thriller	" man hunter " was released in 1986 and is a prequel to " the silence of the lambs . it was remade in 2002 , with different actors under the name " red dragon " and while both movies are very good , there are some differences . man hunter is very atmospheric in tone , utilizing music more . it is very stylistic , yet also has substance . the action and drama scenes are well done and lit very effectively . the film is much darker in its mood or tone than red dragon , and very effective in building suspense . the acting is well done , particularly william peterson in one of his earliest performances . i really enjoyed the movie and cared about the characters and became emotionally involved . well done movie . will more than satisfy fans of the genre .
almost as good as number 4	call me crazy , but i liked this fourth Michael Myers movie . i liked the way they went with the storyline . the storyline may be predictable , but i still liked it . plus , there are a few tiny little clues suggesting a possible reason why Michal came to be the way he is . found this part intriguing . the movie has an air of mystery about it , as these hints are dropped . it's all very vague and nothing big is revealed here , just some clues as to what may come next . enough to keep you hooked . just like the first movie , i thought the acting was pretty good here , though it does get a bit silly at times . there is some suspense and tension here again , maybe not quite as much as number 4 , but it's there nonetheless . i'm not sure if this measure up to number 4 or not , but i still liked it quite a bit . for me , Halloween 5 : The Revenge of Michael Myers is still an
a very well executed vampire film	Blade is the first in the Blade trilogy ( Blade , Blade2 , Blade : Trinity ) It stars Wesley Snipes in the title role as a human vampire hybrid , who has ( almost ) none of the vampires ' weaknesses and all their strengths . Blade has made it his mission to hunt down and destroy the evil vampires . His one weakness is his thirst for human blood . Blade is aided in his quest by Abraham Whistler , Played by Kris Kristofferson , who has developed a serum to curb Blade's blood lust and to keep his vampire side in check . Stephen Dorrf , plays Deacon Frost , the main baddie and Blade's adversary . Snipes is very convincing as an action hero , he is athletic , charismatic , and the camera loves him . Kristofferson is cast well in the supporting role of Whistler . Dorrf is also very convincing as the villain . he too , is very charismatic . Stephen Norrington directed the film . his previous directing experience was 1995's " Death Machine " . he also directed " The League of Extrordinary Gentleman " ( 2003 ) . his other credit include special effects work on films such as " Hardware , Aliens , and the Exorcist : the Beginning , as well as makeup effects for " Hellraiser : Bloodline " . David S Goyer wrote the script for " Blade " . he previously wrote the script for The crow : City of angels , as well " Blade 2 " and " Blade : Trinity " He also wrote the screenplay and story for Batman Begins , as well as the story for its sequel , 2008's Dark Knight " . anyway , back to " Blade " . the film moves along at a brisk pace , is well directed and well written , with good dialogue . the film is also well photographed , is visually very appealing . the tone of the film is dark , without being oppressive and the music is appropriate . there is a lot of graphic vampire violence ( the film is quite blood soaked at times ) and some language . and obviously there are many action sequences , sometimes over the top , but this is no criticism . it works well with this movie . finally , the special effects are plentiful and generally well done . overall , a very well execute movie in the vampire genre . a strong
very enjoyable , thrilling , action flick	National Treaure is the story of Bejamin Gates ( Nicholas Cage ) who has been obsessed with finding the mythical ( but perhaps real ) treasure of the Knights Templar , the greatest fortune mankind has ever known , since he was a child . Along the way , Gates makes an enemy ( Sean bean ) who also wants the treasure for himself ( for purely selfish reasons ) . in a twist , it turns out that Gates must steal The Declaration Of Independence , ( which contains a key clue to the Mystery ) so it does not fall into enemy hands . along for the ride are Diane Kruger , Harvey Keitel , and John Voight . Christopher plummer also appears in the movie . what follows is one intense chase scene after chase in a race against time . National Treasure is basically one long chase movie , but well done . the acting is good , and the characters are convincing . the movie is very enjoyable - - even thrilling , as long as you know what you are expecting . very few dramatic scenes , little character development ( except for the character of Benjamin ) and much of the movie is implausible , even unrealistic , but so what . sometimes you just have to turn your brain off and enjoy .
Gothic style supernatural thriller	i like this movie . yeah , it may not be original , but it is action packed with some great visual effects . and i also like the style , kind of Gothic . it's a ghost story of sorts . if you're into supernatural stuff , you might like it . it won't win any awards , but so what . it's a great popcorn flick that doesn't try to be anything else . the acting is decent enough . i'm just glad they didn't use big name actors , which may have taken the focus off the movie and onto themselves . besides this is an ensemble picture , so there shouldn't be any personality or ego clashes . i like the way ti ended . the viewer can sort of draw their own conclusions . anyway , for me , this was a fun , action filled 90 minutes or so . i recommend it .
as good as the original , with a few differences	this sequel to " Escape From New York " isn't half bad . it doesn't have the gritty , unpolished look of the original , and it's not as edgy . however , i did find it more humorous , and it's more of an action adventure movie , than pure drama , unlike the the original . the movie had a lighter feel to it . i didn't find it had the same sense of loss and decay . i did find it entertaining , and fairly fast paced , though there were a few mildly ridiculous scenes that felt out of place . i also noticed ( as anyone who watches it will ) that the general plot line was almost a carbon copy of the original , with a few variations in detail . i still liked it , and thought it was as good as the original , though , like i said , if you're expecting a departure from the formula of the first , you won't find it . For me , " Escape From L . A . is an
an important movie with a message	though this movie was released in 1951 , it's just as relevant today as it was then . it's about an alien who lands on earth , for reasons unknown at first . it shows the army and people in general panicking and acting stupid without knowing all the facts . but it's really a moral about how stupid humanity is , with our wars , ' our petty squabbles , killing each other , and probably eventually leading to the destruction of the human race . we haven't learned anything since then . in fact , we've become worse . the other ridiculous thing is that if a an alien being or alien beings did travel to earth , from a far planet , they would obviously be technologically advanced , yet , as the movie depicts , we would use our primitive technology to shoot first , and ask questions later . i have no doubt this would be the same in real life , considering how arrogant we are as a race . anyway , i liked the movie , and it's positive message . it doesn't try to utilize special effects that seem would eventually become dated and hokey . in fact , the use of special effects is limited . instead it focuses more on story . it's actually , i think , a very important movie . for me , The day the Earth Stood Still is a solid
long , but doesn't feel like it	this is a Martin Scorsese epic , and it certainly has that epic feel . i'm not sure how accurate it is historically , or if things really looked the way they do in the movie . i still liked the look of it . to me , it seems a lot of work went into the whole production and it shows . Daniel Day Lewis is astonishing ( nothing new for him ) . Leonardo DiCaprio was also good . Cameron Diaz was not bad , but she didn't really impress me all that much . her character wasn't as substantial as it could have been . like in many movie , there's a good supporting cast . the movie is brutally violent , which is probably an accurate depiction of that time . it is over two and a half hours long , but it doesn't feel like it . i found myself becoming very quickly and easily involved in the story , a sign of a good movie . i wouldn't call it a masterpiece , but it is a very good movie . for me , Gangs of New York is an
compelling and engaging	sure this movie takes awhile to get going , but it does work . there's a bit of a murder ( and more ) mystery to solve , but unlike most formulaic movies of the genre this takes a different approach to things . i found it refreshing actually . this is really a thinking person's movie , and it's nice to have your brain engaged . it's very intelligent , with a good mix of characters . it's not predictable , even though you may think you have it figured out . it has more than one surprising revelation . if you only looking for an action packed , high suspense film , this probably isn't it . i think it's a testament to the strong writing and direction that a slower paced movie such as this succeeds as well as it does . i never found it boring once . you are always given enough to maintain a steady level of interest . and that's all that's needed you guessing and hooked . i won't say this is a masterpiece . i don't think it's that kind of movie . it's low key and character ( as well as story ) driven . an easy
" you're out of order ! you're out of order ! the whole trial is out of order ! ( )	AlPacino stars here in a legal / political drama . Pacino puts on an acting clinic in this one , which is the main reason this movie works . i always assumed this movie was in the top 250 here , but it turns out it isn't . that's a bit sad and strange , since in my opinion it's a lot better than some of the other movies on the list . Valerie Curtin and Barry Levinson wrote the film while Norman Jewison directed it . beside Pacino , there are a lot of other name actors involved , such as Jack Warden , John Forsythe , Christine Lahti , Craig T . Nelson , Jeffrey Tambor , and famous acting teacher Lee Strasberg . anyway , for me , . . . and Justice for All is a
Part three in the Hannibal Lecter series ( beautifully stylistic but less substance )	" Hannibal " is directed by Ridley Scott . it takes place after the events in the Silence of the Lambs . Here we have the great Anthony Hopkins reprising his Role as Hannibal Lecter , serial killer and one time psychiatrist . and Jullianne Moore takes over as FBI agent Clarice Starling . in this movie Hannibal comes out of hiding to bait Clarice . The movie starts in Florence Italy , where Lecter has been living in disguise as an art scholar . however events force him back to America . once there , he of course baits agent Starling and he himself becomes the focus of revenge by a former patient who barley escaped being killed by Lecter . Gary Oldman plays the former patient . the movie is very stylish with beautiful photography and scenery , especially in Italy . we are shown the old buildings with their impressive architecture . the movie is very well lit , giving the perfect atmosphere . the movie on the whole focuses more on style than substance and the fact that Lecter comes out of hiding takes away the air of mystery the film could have had . so , the film while beautiful to look at , seems hollow at times and incomplete . it can also be slow and overly dramatic at times , lacking the pace of the previous incarnations . Lecter is also played more for camp in this film , with his witty one liners . he just doesn't seem as frightening here . The acting is very good in the movie , especially by Moore , who inhabits the character of Starling with the same affectations mannerisms and accent as her predecessor , Jodi Foster . despite it's failings , i still enjoyed the movie - more so than " silence " but less so than " RedDragon Or " Manhunter " . i would have to give this movie an , for its beautiful style and the acting of Jullianne Moore .
unrated version	this movie is basically Death Wish updated for the year 2007 . there are a few differences , but the overall plot is the same . it's a revenge / drama . action / movie . it's not realistic , but it sure has lots of action , and lots of blood . this a a very violent film throughout . there's also quite a few strong swear words . one thing i did like about the movie was it's unconventional ending . i also liked the acting , particularly by Garret Hedlund , who plays the main bad guy . John Goodman has a small and needless role . he has one ridiculous scene where he goes off on a profanity laced tirade . Kelly Preston has a small role as the wife of Kevin Bacon's character . and Kevin bacon is the main character , who decides to get revenge for a tragedy that occurs against him and his family . but i really liked Aisha Tyler , who has a small but memorable role in the movie . Brian Garfield wrote the novel that is the basis for the movie , and he also wrote the novel Death Wish , so it's no surprise the two movies are very similar . i recently saw The Brave One , another revenge thriller , starring Jodi Foster , which i like more than this movie . i felt it had more depth to it and stronger acting performances . still , i did like Death Sentence . for me , this movie gets an
drama , action suspense . this movie has it all	i enjoyed this movie quite a bit . the 1st half or so is very dramatic , while the 2nd half is action packed and suspenseful . there are a lot chase scenes and things blowing up . the action is frenetic . i also liked the subject matter dealing with clones and the whole ethical / moral ramifications aspect . i thought it was very thought provoking . plus , it was fun . movies like this don't win too many awards , but that is not the intent . and , yes , there may be elements of implausibility , but if you go to the movies to escape the doldrums and routine of ordinary life , then whether something is realistic or not , is not likely a huge concern for you . i know for me , it's not . of course there are always exception . sometimes believability is thrown completely out the window over and over and over , to the point where almost nothing about the movie has any degree of realism . that bothers me . as for " The Island " i think it contained enough realism for this kind of movie . i liked it , and though i wouldn't say it's a masterpiece , i'd give it a strong
Arnie at his best	Predator is another classic Arnold Schwarzenegger Movie . Basically the movie is about a group of commandos in the jungle of Central America , who fall victim to a alien warrior . but this is no ordinary warrior . this warrior has great strength and advanced weaponry and is able to blend into his surroundings . One by one the commandos are dispatched , until only , Dutch , played by Arnie , is left . this movie is not for the squeamish . there are some very gory scenes , as the soldiers are killed in gruesome ways . again there are some great action sequences , leading to a the ultimate showdown between Dutch and the " Predator " . there are also some good one liners in the film , as with any Arnie movie . a very entertaining film
i liked it	this movie is more of a lite comedy , murder mystery than a horror . but that doesn't mean it's a bad movie . in fact , i liked it quite a bit . it's very fast moving , has some eccentric and intriguing characters , and it's comedic . it has a sinister feeling to it , but it's not what i would call horror . there is a little bit of overacting , but that's too be expected in an early sound picture , since peop0le were so used to using their facial expression and body language in silent films . Fay Wray is one of the stars in the movie , but her part is not that large , though her character plays an important role in the film , and does a lot of screaming , which is something Fay Wray is known for . the movie really belongs to Glenda Farrel , whose tough talking , sarcastic reporter steals the show . her character is sort of Nancy Drew like . i found her very likable and appealing . my vote for The Mystery of The wax museum :
fun from the get go	i thought his was a great movie all around . Alec Baldwin was a great choice to play the The Shadow / Lamont Cranston . Penelope Ann Miller is also good as his sometimes sidekick Margo Lane . and Peter Boyle is hilarious as Moe Shrevnitz , the Shadow's personal taxi driver . the movie moves along at a good pace and i never found it boring . i'm not sure , but i think it sticks pretty close to its source material . Russel Mulcahy ( Resident Evil : Extinction ) directed the movie . for me , this movie is just all around fun from start to finish . but i also liked the look of the film . i think they put a lot of effort into recreating the 1930's look and atmosphere , and for the life of me , i can't figure out why it wasn't very well received . anyway , for me The Shadow is a strong
has a good moral message and a strong ending ( )	this is the 8th episode of season 3 of The Justice League . i thought it was pretty good . many of the team unite to try and stop a very powerful foe . the Green lantern Corp . is shown in the beginning , which i thought was cool . the story was pretty good and there's a lot going on here , more action than anything . there's also a good moral message here . i had just seen episode 2 season 3 , and i thought that was a bit better episode . i didn't like this one as much . to me , the story , while pretty good , was not quite as unique or interesting . still , it was a good episode , and i thought it thought it had a very good , strong ending . for me , Justice League : The Return is a
very well done but should have been rated 14A ( in my opinion )	in this film which takes place in the 1950's , Dennis Quaid and Julianne Moore play your typical happily married couple . and then change . the film is about the intolerance and ignorance of the time , and also the hypocrisy in people's attitudes . Both Moore and Quaid are pitch perfect in their characterizations , and Dennis Haysbert is very good as , well . there are some very touching moments here . this is no film for children . it is rated PG , which i don't happen to agree with . obviously it contains dark themes and implication , so i wouldn't suggest anyone under 14 view it . maybe i'm just becoming a prude in my old age . in any event , the film is very well done , from the acting , to the dialogue , to the authentic feel . for me , Far From heaven is an
review of Ultimate Collector's edition	i really like this Western . it stars John Wayne , Ricky Nelson , Dean martin and Angie Dickinson , to name a few . the acting is superb in this movie . but what i really like is the dialogue and the unique mix of characters . the story is also good . it's straightforward and simple . Unlike The Searchers , another John Wayne movie . Rio bravo is not a sweeping , grand epic . it takes place in basically one town . nevertheless , i found it engaging and compelling . this edition contains a raft of extras , including two documentaries and a short featurette . Like the Ultimate edition of The Searchers , here is also a reproduction of the 1959 Dell comic book , a reproduction of the original press book from 1959 , and 8 full colour lobby cards . as for the movie itself , i think it's pretty well done , and deserves a . the collection is definitely worth having , and i give that an .
some nice twists and intensity in this one	this is one very good movie . it's got suspense , a twisting plot , great intensity , and a good story . it may not be wholly original , but it think it works , thanks to its three main actors , Alec Baldwin ( The Good Shepherd ) Nicole Kidman ( The Interpreter ) and Bill Pullman . But Kidman really surprised me with the intensity she brought to her role . i'm generally not a fan , but she is effective in this movie . the supporting performances are also good . i also like the fact that the movie isn't completely predictable , like happens in so many movies . the movie is also very well paced . there are no lagging spots to slow things down to the point of boredom . anyway , i really enjoyed it .
nice little crime drama / murder mystery	pretty good for the genre . it has suspense , plot twists , a nice creepy , dark atmosphere . it drop some nice tantalizing clues as to who the killer may be . Ashley Judd make a real kick ass heroine . she's certainly credible in he role , as a new homicide inspector with a more than a little baggage . Sam Jackson is great ( once again , as her mentor , as well as the commissioner . Andy Garcia plays her new partner . he was OK , but i didn't really feel he completely fit the movie . there was just something . . . i really liked David Strathairn , as a police shrink . his role wasn't that big , but i thought he was impressive , none the less . i also liked the great Jazz soundtrack . despite all the good things about this movie , i wouldn't call it great . for one thing , it lacks any intense action , it's not really riveting or harrowing . so i wouldn't classify it as a thriller , but more a straight crime drama / murder mystery . i would have preferred it to be a bit more exciting . for me , Twisted is a
action packed with humour and irony ( and ultra violent )	i liked this movie quite a bit . it's very well paced , the acting is pretty good and it is ultra violent . it's basically about a part human , part cyborg cop who cleans up the streets of the city . there are some glitches along the way , of course . i think the movie , at its heart is a social satire . it's very relevant , even more so today . there are touches of irony and humour through out . Paul Verhoeven directed it and it's his first Americna movie . Verhoeven doesn't shy away from violence and if that sort of thing bothers you , you'll want to skip this movie . there is another , maybe more futuristic robotic cop , which i really like the look of . ( possible minor spoiler ahead ) there are two showdowns between RoboCop and this other futuristic , more advanced robot , both of which i found exciting and well done . for , me RoboCop is an
" Don't make this dog angry - - you wouldn't like him when he's angry "	this movie was better than i thought it would be . i thought it would be good , but it exceeded my expectations . the acting was fairly decent , but there was one standout - - the dog . all the other characters were secondary . this dog was very well trained and had a personality-to boot . intelligent , lovable , sad and even romantic . there is a brief back story to the dog and how it came to be where it was . this is basically a very genetically enhanced animal , with all senses heightened , great strength , speed and intelligence . the story flowed very well and the dog ( whose mane is Max ) soon becomes endearing to the viewer the filmmakers even added a brief touch of whimsy , which i thought was a hint of brilliance . we feel pain when Max feels pain . Because this dog is such a highly developed character , it becomes very easy to sympathize with him . Even when Max slowly evolves from being a lovable " mutt " into a vicious killing machine we still feel for him . and that ' because we are told early on that Max is not completely under his own control , and every second he is away from the " lab " his killing instincts exert themselves until he becomes psychotic . I was very entertained by this film , having also recently seen " Rottweiller " which is fairly similar , containing some-of the same subject matter but it takes a different tact than " Man's Best Friend " I give this movie an / 10
terrific family entertainment	this movie was better than i was expecting . it's lite heated , funny and great fun for the whole family . it's also very touching . there nothing in this movie that can't be watched by any age group . kids should lobe it , and it's also engaging enough for adults . i think the story is interesting enough for both kids and adults . it's n9ice to know there is still some quality family entertainment that really is for the whole family . i also thought the voice actors fit the characters perfectly . if you're a parent , you can set your r child down by themselves , knowing they are watching something which is perfectly kid friendly , and you might like it as well . for me Curious George is an
high speed romance comedy chase movie with predictable but satisfying ending	" The Chase " is sort of an action adventure romance with some light comedy . it is a case of mistaken identity ( sortof ) . Charlie Sheen and Kristi Swanson play the two leads in the movie . Charlie Sheen is Jackson Davis Hammond , a falsely convicted armed bank robber who escapes from custody . As Jackson makes a quick stop at a gas station to fill up ( in a stolen car ) the report of the stolen car is heard by two police officers in the store . the officers attempt arrest Jackson , and rather than go back to jail , he kidnaps the woman standing next to him in line . This woman just happens to be Natalie Voss , ( Kristi Swanson ) daughter of wealthy industrialist DaltonVoss . ( Ray Wise ) Jackson escapes with Natalie and leads the police on a much publicized car chase , which takes up most of the movie . the ending is predictable but satisfying . Obviously , there is a lot of action , some of it quite intense . there is also humour , courtesy of Sheen and Swanson . much of what occurs in the movie is somewhat improbable but the movie is entertaining and fun .
great horror / comedy blend	i liked " Gremlins " a lot . i thought it was well acted and funny . it also had some black humour , which i liked . i liked the look of the gremlins . they would probably be scary for some children . they are quite freaky looking . i thought the puppetry was amazing . for the most part it really looked like these creatures were doing what the movie showed them doing . the gremlins were hysterical at times in what they said and how they acted . this is my idea of a good horror / comedy . it balances both elements well . it think the potential was there for the movie to be really awful , but good writing makes all the difference . the only real complaint i have about the movie , is you could really tell it was all a set , which looked suspiciously like many movie sets of the time . i'm sure they used that particular set for several movies . anyway , this is just a small complaint . and i'm probably being petty . otherwise , i really enjoyed the movie . for me , " Gremlins " is an .
professor discovers he is murdered in 5 days ( thanks to an anonymous tip from the future )	i did'nt mind this mini series . for a TV science fiction movie , it's not half bad . it kept me interested through out , and even riveted at times . the acting is very good in this movie . i'm not sure how accurate the movie is from a physics point of view , but so what , i enjoyed it . the basic premise is that physics professor J . T . Neumeyer ( Timothy Hutton ) discovers that he is murdered in 5 days ( thanks to an anonymous tip from the future . so he must try to figure out who the murderer is and try to prevent his own killing thereby altering his destiny and maybe that of others . the whole thing involves theoretical time travel ( sort of ) in the present and in the future . i have to say , the ending caught me completely by surprise . i wasn't expecting it at all . i honestly thought this was a well done mini series . i'd give ' 5 days to Midnite '
good	i thought this was a pretty decent drama . it's about a group of former friends who have gone their own ways , and years later are reunited at the funeral of a close friend . it's well acted , for the most part , but there were a few moments which felt a bit contrived . maybe that's just me . the music soundtrack is outstanding with classics from the 60's and 70's . i might have had a higher opinion of this movie , had i not just watched Ordinary People , which was a brilliant movie . The Big Chill , to me , just didn't have quite the same emotional resonance or impact . still , it's a good movie . Lawrence Kasdan directed the movie and co-wrote it with Barbara Benedek . apparently there is remake in the works as well . for me , The Big Chill is an
solid action , nail biting tension	before this movie , who knew Keanu Reeves could be a credible action hero ? Reeves impressed me with this effort . he put on a few ponds of muscle for this one . Sandra Bullock is also in this one , and although her character is likable , she just doesn't make the same impression as Reeves does . i guess part of the reason is that her character really isn't the focus , which can't really be blamed on her . Dennis hopper has a nice turn as a sadistic villain . aside from the acting though , there are a lot of good things about this movie . one is the relentless action . this thing really movies . it's also a real nail biter at times . the writing by Graham Yost is also good , as is the direction of Jan de Bont . as far as action movies go , this one is right up there , in my opinion . i give " Speed " a solid
Knight challenges " Death " to chess match for his life	this is the first Ingmar Bergman i have seen . Bergman is a very revered Swedish director . i wasn't sure what to expect with this film , but i had wanted to see it for some time . basically the story is about a knight named Antonius Block ( Max von Sydow ) during the time of the Black Plague in Europe . Block finds himself visited by " Death " himself ( Bengt Ekerot ) , who reveals that Block's time is soon up . Bock himself already has suspicions so is not surprised , and in weird way , is resigned to his fate . and yet , to avoid or at least delay the inevitable , he challenges " Death " to a game of chess . if he wins , Death will leave him alone , at least for the time being . of course if he loses , his time is nearly up . as the match unfolds , we are shown various people who struggle to deal with the plague and its devastation , each in their own way . also , during breaks in the game , Block goes on a personal journey , to try to find some meaning in life in general , and in his own life . we see he is a very conflicted , tortured soul and longs to believe ( that is have faith in God ) . the movie is very low key , very dramatic , yet really is compelling . i did not understand every nuance of the movie , not knowing what to look for , and the movie is subtitled in German , which makes it a bit harder to follow . this is mainly due to the fact that the subtitles sometimes omit parts of pertinent conversation . at least , it seems that way . either way , this film demands a 2nd viewing , which should fill in things missed the 1st time . one thing i do know is that Bergman is a very passionate director , and that shows , although ironically in subtle ways . the point is , although the movie is melancholy at times , i did enjoy it . For now , a strong
good , old school terror	for a few really good scares , this movie works pretty good . it's not fast paced , but it slowly builds tension , while throwing in some real scary sequences . the acting by James Brolin and Margot Kidder is really credible here . They play George and Kathy Luts , who with their children , move into their nightmare , i mean - - dream house . the movie is supposedly based on a true story , though depending on who you believe , the whole thing was fabricated and has been debunked as a hoax . either way , it makes for riveting , disturbing entertainment . i know i got chills down my spine more than a few times . Rod Steiger is also in the movie and is very strong as a concerned and then involved priest . the children are also portrayed very well . there are no cheap scare here . the movie earns every shiver and gasp . for me , The Amityville Horror is an
Popeye takes Swee ' Pea to the Zoo	in this animated short , Popeye takes Swee ' Pea to the zoo , and of course chaos and hi jinx ensue , with Popeye being pretty much oblivious . this is the 1st Popeye short i have seen , and i thought it was quite funny , and of course absurd . this is one of the short films from the Fleisher studio , who also did a number of Superman animated shorts , 17 in all , i think . one of the funniest things about Popeye is his strange way of speaking , or mumbling rather . that and the fact that he always has a can of spinach on him no matter where he goes . of course , as soon as the can of spinach is drained , Popeye becomes super strong . in just over 7 minutes , there is a lot packed into this short . i really enjoyed it . for me , Popeye : Little Swee'Pea is an
spooky and intelligent	combine some of the tension and suspense of U571 with some good old fashioned horror , and you get an idea of this movie . not hack and slash , slice and dice gore , but horror . there some chilling moments here , with not too much gore . there is a very strong psychological aspect to this movie . some thought was really put into the story . the acting was good , but i think it takes a backseat to the story . the tension , as well as the body count , mounts , with each successive , bizarre , happening . it also keeps you guessing until the end . i found it all worthwhile even satisfying . lately , it seems i've been on a role with horror movies . that's a nice change from a lot of the crap i had been seeing . for me , Below is an 8 maybe not a really strong 8 , but a solid .
i liked it	while i can't say whether this adaption of the Dracula myth is true to Bram Stoker's novel , ( since i haven't read it ) i still liked it . i liked the look of Dracula as an old man and as the young man . i also really liked the almost unrecognizable David ( Poirot ) Suchet as Abraham Van Helsing . i don't think i've ever seen an episode of Masterpiece theatre , but i think they did a fine job with the Dracula lore . Marc Warren was good as the count and i could see how the character could be seductive to women . i liked the look of the film . it is certainly beautifully photographed . i think this is the most romanticized version of Dracula i've seen so far . it's just as good as any of the others i have seen . i give this version of " Dracula "
one wild ride	i don't understand the low rating for ( ) for this movie on this site . i thoroughly enjoyed myself throughout . the basic Gist of the story is this : Van Helsing take son Count Dracula , The Wolfman , and the Frankenstein Monster in one adventure . what more could you ask for ? this is one fast paced thrill ride , with spectacular action and fight sequences . Hugh Jackman is Van Helsing , and makes the character larger than life . Kate Beckinsale is Anna Valerious , whose family has for centuries tried to rid the world of evil . she teams up with Van Helsing , and the sparks fly . there is no denying the chemistry between the two . i wouldn't call this a scary movie , but it is very intense at times , and a bit morbid . it doesn't take itself seriously though , which works in this case . for me , Van Helsing is an
very harrowing , but	i don't think it's realistic . plus , there are a lot of plot holes and inconsistencies , in my mind . but the acting is first rate from all , and it had me guessing to the end . it was unpredictable enough that i wasn't sure who was good or bad , until the end . plus , the ending was different than i thought it would be . and the movie is certainly harrowing and will get your adrenaline pumping . the only problem is , i just couldn't suspend my disbelief enough to get around all the unanswered questions . normally that isn't an issues for me , but it just becomes too much . despite that , i still give it high mark due to how harrowing and entertaining it is . for me , Flightplan is an . if you can suspend your disbelief enough , you will probably really like this movie .
fun for the whole family	i really enjoyed this animated Disney classic . it's just a lot of fun . lots of action and excitement , and an excellent choice for the villain in Cruella Devil . whose is iconic ( or should be ) in my opinion . very young children may be a bit frightened of her , as she certainly is scary looking . her 2 henchman are quite inept , and provide a lot of comic relief . i also really liked the voice acting . i thought it fit well with the characters . the animation is also good , considering it is from 1961 , though i'm sure it took a few years before that to complete . anyway , in my opinion , this classic is good fun for the whole family . my vote for 101 Dalmatians is an
too cool ! ! !	wow . i had real negative preconceptions about this movie . i thought it would be like hostel , blood and guts and nothing else . but then i decided what the heck . so i bought it . i was very impressed . there was very little blood and guts . there was however , suspense and atmosphere . there was at least a semblance of a plot , enough so that what little blood and guts there was , was not gratuitous . the music was very appropriate , very moody . i liked the characters and really hoped they would STAY ALIVE . of course naturally people die in a movie like this , but i still rooted for them anyway . these characters were more intelligent than in most horror movies yet most of them still died . there were some inventive kills in this movie , which i really liked . i also liked the fact that the villain is often unseen . this movie also had some " jump out of your seat moments " . the ending was pretty good , but it definitely sets up for a sequel . one other thing this movie has going for it is the character of abigail , played by samaire armstrong . boy is she hot . kind of looks like elishia cuthbert , but maybe hotter . i hope we see her again in movies . there is one other thing about the movie i liked , and that was the cinematography . really well done . forget hostel , this is how horror movies should be made . cool . this comment refers to the unrated DVD version , not the pg 13 version
informative and entertaining	this documentary is contained on the bonus disc of the original " Texas Chainsaw Massacre ultimate edition released in 2006 . the documentary was originally produced in 2000 , though i think it has some material added since then . either way , it's a pretty good documentary , with revealing interviews with many of the original cast and crew . it reveals a few surprising things about the production itself , but also about the aftermath . i was surprised at how much money the movie made . keep in mind this is 1974 . as far as documentaries go , this is one of the better ones . many documentaries merely repeat things everybody already knows , but this one has is refreshing , and actually shows new insight into the movie . it's also highly entertaining . at least i think so . i also like that it gives you updates on where the cast and crew are now . all in all , a very good documentary , well worth watching . for me " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " : The Shocking Truth " is an
a highly underrated gem	i really liked bicentennial man . i thought the premise was original , the acting was very good . i liked the humour sprinkled throughout . this was certainly a dramatic movie , with no frenetic " in your face action " . as a result the story is more flushed out , as are the characters . the movie was intended to be dramatic and succeeds very well at it . people who watch this movie expecting huge action sequences are missing the point . the basic idea of the story is about an android who discovers he wants to become human and sets out a journey which spans nearly two hundred years to fulfill his quest . i did not find this movie boring at all , but became very drawn in to the story and emotionally attached to the characters . this movie gets a well deserved out of 10
Bored lawyer adds spice to his life by secretly taking ballroom dance lessons	this movie is a remake of a Japanese film made in 1996 . i haven't seen the original , so i'll only comment on this , the 2004 version . This movie is about a bored lawyer who has been married for nearly 20 years and had the same job for a long time . he decides to spice up his life and without telling anyone begins taking ball room dance lessons . Richard Gere is John Clark , the bored lawyer . Susan Sarandon is his wife . Jennifer Lopez is the dance instructor who John feels a connection to . Stanley Tucci provides some light comic relief as one of the students . This is a whimsical , light hearted movie . it is enjoyable and there are some good performances . Gere in particular seems to really be having fun with his character during the dance scenes . Lopez , however , comes off a bit stiff and forced at times . Tucci turns in another great supporting performance and is very funny at times . Lisa Ann Walter also provides some laughs with her character Bobby . Richard Jenkins plays a detective named Devine , hired by Clark's wife Beverly ( Susan Sarandon ) who suspects he may be having an affair . Nick Cannon plays Devine's assistant . Susan Sarandon is very good as Beverly Clark , but has a fairly small role in the film . the film is a romantic comedy , emphasis on romantic , but as previously mentioned , does have some comedic elements . the comedy is more of the amusing , chuckling type of laughs . there is nothing which could be called hysterical . if that's what you're looking for , this is not your movie . the movie is fairly predictable , and has the usual feel good ending , but arrives there a bit differently than i expected . Overall , i really enjoyed this movie .
excellent , but terrifying	this movie is based on the true story of Richard Ramirez , dubbed The Night Stalker , who terrorised California in the summer of 1985 with a series of brutal crimes . the story focuses mainly on the two main detectives who try to identify and capture him . the movie is a very well done TV movie , but is not only disturbing , but terrifying , all the more so , because it is based on a true story . the movie does a great job of capturing the fear people felt during The Night Stalker's reign of terror . the acting is superb . it would have been nice if the movie had delved into why Ramirez committed those awful crimes , but there is only a vague hint given by Ramirez himself at the end of the movie . for me , Manhunt : Search for the Night Stalker is an .
another well crafted effort by Woody Allen	Match Point , written and directed by Woody Allen , is a romantic drama set in London . Jonathon Rys Meyers plays Chris Wilton , a former pro tennis player who tales a job as a tennis instructor at a an upper class club in London . he quickly forms a friendship with Tom Hewitt ( Matthew Goode ) one of his students , who introduces him to his upper crust family , including his sister Chloe . ( Emily Mortimer ) Chris and Chloe soon begin a romance . However , Chris becomes smitten with Tom's fianc , Nola Rice ( Scarlet Johansson ) . Chris and Nola have a brief affair . Nola moves away and Chris does not see her for a year . However , in a chance meeting , he runs into her again and they begin a prolonged , torrid affair . Chris and Chloe have Married by this time , and Chris has risen quickly in the ranks of his father in law's ( Brian Cox ) company . eventually the time comes when Chris must decide between his wife , Chloe and his mistress Nola . remaining with Chloe assures Chris of the continued extravagant lifestyle he has become accustomed to , while leaving Chloe for Nola would mean losing all the wealth and privilege he has achieved . More complication arise as something unexpected occurs , forcing Chris to make a surprising and life altering decision . this movie is well written , with very good dialogue and interesting characters and dilemmas . Tom Hewitt plays Chris Wilton as charming , suave , and self confident . His seduction of Nola comes across as real and authentic . Nola , played by Scarlett Johansson is woman who knows the effect she has on men and is more than eager to play the game . However , she lacks self confidence as an aspiring actress and is emotionally vulnerable . Johansson is very credible playing a character more mature than her age would suggest . Emily Mortimer , as Chloe , gives a wonderfully understated performance as the neglected wife who has self confidence issues of her own . as the film moves toward its concluding stages , Chris make his decision , leading to a startling and unexpected conclusion . this movie is very well executed and very entertaining , as well thought provoking . a strong
great family fare	this is a wonderful movie that is suitable for the whole family . it's very touching and heartwarming . it is a bit sad though and very young kids should be prepared beforehand . there is nothing that should be traumatic though . the story is told from the perspective of Black beauty himself , voiced by Alan Cumming . this is just one of many adaptations of the novel and i have no idea how faithful this particular movie is to the novel by Anna Sewell , but i do know it is a well made movie . there are moments when you may cry tears of joy , and even tears of sadness , but ultimately the movie is uplifting and hopeful . for me , Black Beauty is an
entertaining and amusing	as vampire movies go , this one is quite fun and entertaining . it even has some humor mixed in with everything else . sure , it is a bit hokey by today's standards , but it's still a very good movie . there are a few good , and gross transformations and there are some genuinely creepy moments . Chris Sarandon , who plays Jerry Dandridge ( the vampire ) , William Ragsdale as Charley the next Door neighbor and Roddy McDowall , as Peter Vincent , vampire killer and are all really good here . Amanda Bearse , as Amy , Charlie's girlfriend is also good . but for me , it was Ed , Charlie's friend , who i thought provided some great laughs , as did Dorothy Fielding , as Charlie's mother who had a very small part but was nonetheless funny . i also thought Jonathon Stark was very good , as Jerry Dandridge's companion / man servant . i also thought the music for this movie was terrific , adding some style to the proceedings . for me , Fright Night is an
great odd couple buddy cop movie ( east vs west )	if you like buddy cop movies , you should like this one . the film stars Arnie as strait laced , no nonsense Moscow detective Captain Ivan Danko , who must team up with loose cannon , goof ball , undisciplined Chicago cop Sgt . Art Ridzik ( James Belushi ) . i won't give away why they have to team up . i'll let you watch the movie to find out yourself . these two are about as mismatched a pair as possible . the movie is ripe with misunderstandings and comedic moments owing to the different tactics each employ on the case . Belushi and Arnie work great off each other . this is really a fun movie . in my mind , it's better than that other buddy movie " 48 Hours " which pairs up Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy . if you like that movie , i can't see how you would not like " Red Heat " . one of the elements that make this film work is the fact it takes place in 1988 , where the political climate between Russia and the U . S was much different than today . anyway , for me , " this movie is funny , action packed and all around entertaining . i give " Red Heat "
as good as part 2	Treat Williams returns as the " Substitute " . this time , mercenary Carl Tomassonfullfils a wish from his dead friend and fellow mercenary . he has promised to find his friend's daughter and give her a something he father wanted her to have . he tracks her down at university where she is a teacher . however , when she is viciously attacked and hospitalized , Carltakes it upon himself to find answers , so he becomes her substitute . there is another subplot to the movie , but i won't reveal it here . lets just say , there is tons of action , and some great fight scenes , just like the 2nd 0ne . i liked this movie as much as the 2nd one , mainly because of the action . it's almost the same movie as far as the general plot , but again , some details have been changed . nevertheless , i still enjoyed it . if you liked " the Substitute 2 " you will probably like part3 . just as i gave part 2 , i also give " The Substitute 3 "
you never really know who your friends are	this movie is all about being true to yourself and sticking to your convictions . Gary Cooper is Longfellow Deeds , a simple , small town humble man who inherits a large fortune of 20 millions dollars . soon , everybody wants money from him and many people try to change him . this movie succeeds for a number of reasons , one of which is the appeal of star Cooper . he's just so likable , you can't help but empathize with the character . but the message of the film also helps a great deal . it's not preachy at all , and it's very relevant . even more so today . it's nice to see a movie that has a moral centre to it . there's also some humorous and romantic moments that work well . the supporting cast is also effective .
funny with witty dialogue	this screwball comedy starring William Powell and Carole Lombard was really enjoyable on all levels . Lombard is always great to watch , and has great comedic timing and skills . i haven't seen too much of Powell , although i think he starred in the Thin Man mysteries of the 30's . he was very good in this film , . the supporting actors are are good . this movie shows that family dysfunction does not discriminate against class or status . the movie also touches on social issues of the day , ( the 1930's ) which it handles very deftly . there are some touching moments between the comedy and drama , which are also played well . i like the witty and snappy dialogue as well . the ending is a bit different than i though it would be , though not in a bad way . for me , My Man Godfrey is an
Attack of The Lizard	this is a 70 minute feature from season one of The Spectacular Spiderman , A new animated series , focusing on the younger years of Spiderman / Peter Parker . in this one , he's 16 years old and in high school . i'm not sure if this is an episode of the series or a standalone feature , i can't find an accurate listing for it anywhere . it may be actually under another title but on the cover it's called : Attack of the Lizard . anyway , i did like it , regardless . it presents Peter Parker as very cheeky and smart-alecy , also fairly immature and somewhat selfish , in that he craves recognition for his heroic as Spiderman , yet he knows this isn't possible . there is lot s of action here , butSpoilerthe Lizard does not even appear until the last 15 or so minutes . still , this is the best looking Lizard of any of the animated Spiderman series so far . by that , i mean the physicality and ferocity of the character . he is very impressive , very strong and deadly . and there is a good battle scene between him and Spidey . other well known villains also appear , but i won't give away which ones . i give this animated episode / feature a good
very entertaining and engrossing	i enjoyed this movie a lot . i thought it was well made . it gives a good amount of insight into why Norman Bates became the killer that he was . we are given just the right amount of detail on his past , and not so much that the film gets bogged down in the details . the movie is also tense and suspenseful . there are also some great performances all around , but i was particularly impressed with Olivia Hussey , who plays young Norman's mother . Henry Thomas is also good as young Norman . as far as i recall this movie is less graphic than the sequels , but it is still pretty violent . there is also lots of sexual innuendo . overall , i found this movie very engrossing and compelling . For me , Psycho IV : The Beginning is a strong
countdown to extinction	this thriller starts out slow , but after about 30 min picks up steam very quickly . once it gets going , it is a fast paced , tightly wound nail biter . the basic premise is that a a man ( Anthony Edwards ) picks up a ringing payphone and hears something startling , to say the least . according to the caller , the countdown to nuclear war and the end of the world has begun . in less than 90 minutes , every man , woman and child will be extinct . the film then follows Harry Washello ( Edwards ) as he tries to convince others of the threat . and then things get even tenser . without giving any thing away , lets just say this movie reinforces the notion of mob mentality and human ignorance in the face of possible extinction , or even just in the case of horrible tragedy . this view is very accurate , as witnessed by the actions of some of the waste of skin sht heads in new Orleans last year after the hurricane . not all people act that way , in fact most of us are probably decent people who would react like someone with a brain should . but the fact that any do means that among us civilized beings , there are some knuckle dragging sh-t for brain retards sucking up our air , and taking up our space . those animals should be put onto a deserted island , where they can hopefully fight amongst themselves and end up killing each other . anyway , the movie clearly illustrates the point in one powerful scene . it also provokes the question-what would you do if you knew the end was near ? terrific , thoughtful thriller .
the best of the four Marvel Animated features so far	i liked this movie much more than i thought i would . it starts off slow , but somewhere along the line , it becomes interesting . i'm not sure how faithful it is to the comic book . either way , i thought it was pretty good . the voice talent fit the characters perfectly . the animation is excellent . the action scenes are very well done . i also thought the back-story was really good and nicely developed , as was the character of Dr . Strange . the people behind this film put a lot of effort into it . of the four animated movies made by Marvel ( the other ones being The Invincible iron man , and Ultimate Avengers 1 and 2 ) , i think this is the best one so far . it is also the one i had the lowest hopes for going in . it is much darker in tone than the previous animated marvel films , but that is definitely appropriate for the subject matter . for me , Doctor Strange is an .
the story of a humble teacher who changed lives	Edward James Olmos stars in this " based on a true story " movie , as a new , humble teacher who inspires the students at the his school to reach higher , to make sometimes of themselves . most of the students are learning challenged , because they have never been encouraged , or had someone believe in them . many will drop out , some will become criminals , or end up dead . Jaime A . Escalante ( Olmos ) is the man who will change all that . but unlike many similar movies of the genre , he does it gently with subtlety and humour . this is a very inspiring movie , without being maudlin or preachy . i liked it quite a bit . i will say though , that it is not fast paced , by any means . but , if you have patience , you will be rewarded . for me , Stand and Deliver is an
once it gets going it's pretty darn fun	i have t say , this movie started out pretty slow , and i thought it was gonna be a dud . i'm glad i kept watching . it turned into a pretty good movie . if you're into action and adventure , you'll certainly find it in abundance here . there are some great action sequences , providing scads of excitement . but there are also a lot of very funny moments , and there's even a hint or 2 of romance . there are some fantastic creatures here . the only downside i can think of is the visual effects . i found them kinda cheesy , and sometimes they didn't quite look real . the creatures sometimes looked a bit wonky , but other times were pretty realistic . but that's a small downside , since the movie is so much fun . Robin Williams is the featured performer here , but i thought Bonnie Hunt was terrific . Bebe Neuwirth was very good as well . but David Alan Grier was a riot . Kirsten Dunst was good too . overall , this is a good movie for both kids and adults . for me , Jumani is a
high energy fun	i quite enjoyed this movie . it follows a group of people as they try to make it as as dancers with a prestigious ballet company . as soon as i saw it was about ballet , i groaned inwardly . i thought there's no way this could be anything other than boring . but i was proved wrong very quickly . this movie is not just about ballet . there's more going on . lets just say this is a very high energy movie , with some great dance sequences . if you don't like ballet , i feel very confident in saying that won't matter in this case . for one thing the performances are all very good , both the dancing and the acting . and the movie is choreographed very well . not to mention the great soundtrack . for me , this is a really good 115 minutes .
my introduction into the genre of short films	i haven't seen very many short films . in fact , i think this may be the only one i've seen but i liked this one . i could really relate to the man , as i have been in similar situations . i liked the voice over from the two characters . this doesn't always work , but i found it effective here . it gives us a glimpse into the characters . obviously , you won't have a lot of character development in 2 . 5 minutes , but like i said , the voice over helps . it also conveys the humorous aspect quite well . i also like the camera work . as for the ending , i thought it was OK . maybe it could have been expanded a bit , but i think it works the way it is . i think this is a very good short film and also a good introduction to the genre for me . i give Nightwalking an
i really liked it	this movie was way better than i thought it would be . i had very low expectations , but i was pleasantly surprised . it had some story development to it . once it gets going , it continually builds suspense and tension , and even gets exciting . there is also a definite atmosphere of panic and fear in the movie and the characters . when we find out what's in store for our characters , it's not quite what you think . there is a bit of graphic violence and gore , but nothing gratuitous . the trailers for the movie are bit misleading and do not do it justice . they make the movie out to be similar to Hostel , when it is much different and a much better movie . i found Hostel to be nothing but blood and guts just for the sake of blood and guts . it served no purpose . With Turistas , the violence and gore served the story . for me , Turistas is an
old fashioned ghost story with some surprising twists	this is a pretty good , old fashioned style ghost story . it's genuinely creepy and eerie , with great performances all round . Kate Hudson is in this one , along with the great Gena Rowlands , John Hurt and Peter Sarsgaard . it basically involves an old house on a plantation , a woman who answers an ad to look after an elderly woman's frail , stroke affected husband in said house and some deep dark secrets . throw in some mysticism and some " guests " and you have the ingredients for a real chiller . if you're into ghosts stories with a twist , this might be your movie . there's couple of twists , and some of them are unexpected . this isn't a real action packed movie ( though there is a bit of that here ) it's more psychological , but just as entertaining . i don't think you could go wrong with this movie . for me , " The Skeleton Key " is a strong
a very " smart " horror movie	i really enjoyed this movie . the pace is frantic at times ( in a good way ) there's lots of suspense . the villain is definitely menacing , to say the least . even better is the fact that this movie contains no stoned or drunk , easy target teenagers . the victims are all adults and the killer is not just some faceless murdering machine . he has a personality ( not a good personality , but at least he has 1 ) the other thing i liked is that we are shown some insight into why this particular psycho kills women . this is a Canadian movie , which may surprise some people , given how good the movie is . William Shatner is in this movie , but thankfully his role is small enough not to torpedo the movie . others in the movie include Michael Ironside , Lee Grant and Linda purl . 1 other thing i should say is that " Visiting Hours " is a " smart " horror flick . easily / 10
great fun ( not your conventional StarTrek movie )	i enjoyed this installment of the Star Trek franchise quite a bit . in my opinion , it's better than the previous ones . i think they did a very good job here , balancing many different elements . there is certainly the action / adventure element here but there is also so quite a bit of humour . the writing is very intelligent and witty . there is also the element of danger , which is very real in this one . the threat is very grave and imminent . the suspense factor is high here too . the story itself is very well written and well paced . this is almost a comedy at its heart . the dialogue is very sharp and fresh . it's more of a family movie than the previous ones . there is some mild language , but it is not used maliciously . it does actually serve the story . the movie is also a cautionary tale i think , to humanity . i think it's just as relevant today as it was then , maybe more so . generally , this movie is probably the most fun of the original Star Trek movies , in terms of comedic value . i also think it is probably the best of the original movies . for me , Star Trek 4 : The Voyage Home is a definite .
a Stephen King novel that actually translates well to the screen . yay !	as far as Stephen King adaptations go , this is one of the better ones . the story is very creative and inventive . it's dark and mysterious and very creepy . i wouldn't call it scary , but i could see how some people might think it is . there's a lot of mysticism in this one . it's a real morality fable . it basically shows that everything you do , good or bad , comes back to you . in this case , it's bad , very bad evil , in fact . even though an innocent act is to blame for a deadly occurrence that act comes back to haunt the characters involved , in spades . the innocent act which starts the chain of events is actually very amusing . anyway , i really liked this movie . for some inexplicable reason the story translates well to the screen . don't ask me why . have no idea . but the thing is , it works . For me , " Thinner " is a strong
funnier and more action packed than the first one	i found this movie to be better than the first one . there's still lots of action , but it's even funnier than the first . there's some really good fight scenes , and Jackie Chan's moves are even more outrageous this time around . the banter between Chan and Tucker is much funnier and more natural . once again , although there is some violence it's not excessive or gratuitous . i think there is also less coarse language than the first , and like the first , there is no nudity , but there is a bit of suggestiveness . overall , i though this movie was a great ride from start to finish . it's even faster paced than the original , and Tucker and Chan have even better general and comedic chemistry . for me , Rush Hour 2 is an
comedy , drama , and action	Burt Reynolds Plays Paul Crewe , a former pro quarterback , whose life takes a turn for the worse as he find himself in jail . The warden ( Eddie Albert ) has a sadistic mean streak . he petitions Crewe to form a football team from the inmates to play against the guards ( a semi pro team ) in four weeks as a warm up match before the semi pro season begins . the warden assumes an easy brutal victory against the inmates . But Crewe and his ragtag bunch have other ideas . this movie has everything , lots of one liners , some very funny situations . even some drama , and action . oh , yeah , there's football too . i would classify this movie as as dramedy , a drama / comedy hybrid , with some action . i laughed quite a bit . the football scenes , especially the hits , are very authentic and there is a lot of violence , though nothing very graphic . overall , the Longest Yard is a very good movie , that is more than a football movie . even if you don't like football , you should still enjoy this film . a strong
almost as good as the first Bourne film ( The Bourne Identity )	while not quite as good as The Bourne Identity , this is still a great movie . Matt Damon returns as Jason Bourne , and is outstanding . Franka Potente returns , as well , and puts in a good performance . again , we have a strong supporting cast . like " Identity " this one has a lot of action , which is spectacular . the fight scenes are once again superb . again there's lots of tension and suspense , and twists and turns . the only real drawback i found to this movie , is that the dramatic scenes don't seem as compelling , and they seem to go on a bit too long sometimes . other than that , it's pretty much as good as as " Identity " . for me " The Bourne Supremacy " is an
less hype , much better movie than the first one	i must say , i quite enjoyed this movie , i think mostly because my expectations were very low . this is due to the fact that i was disappointed in the first installment , because my expectations were too high . how ironic . this entry had more action , better action sequences and more humour . it was at times also darker than the original and the acting had more depth . there were also more characters and various sub plots , but the movie was still easy to follow . the one thing that irritated me at first was that they made captain Jack Sparrow's character even gayer than the first . Johnny Depp does somehow pull it off , though , give him credit for that . so this was only a temporary annoyance and then the character'quirks , or foibles , if you will , grew on me . i don't perceive being annoyed by this in the next installment . this movie also had some more suspense and the action sequences were at times very intense , in a good way . there was an abundance of cgi in this movie , which was exceptionally well done , the best i have seen in a long time , possibly ever . the filmmakers did a great job of balancing humour suspense , action and some darker material together . the story also had more depth and i cared more for the characters this time around . i think most of the characters were better written , for whatever reason . the only other complaint i have is that the movie was a bit too long . i did however like the ending . nothing fancy , just a low key setup for the third installment . basically , this is a case of the sequel surpassing the original in every way . i can't wait for the third entry , though i have higher hopes and it has a lot to live up to 7 . 5 + / 10
not action packed , but worth watching to the end	this movie is the story of the one and only documented case of any prisoners escaping from the infamous prison . three men , apparently did the impossible , although they were never heard from or seen again , so how successful they were is anyone's . guess . Clint Eastwood heads up the cast as the mastermind behind the escape , while Patrick McGoohan portrays the warden . though i did enjoy this movie , it's not exactly fast paced , so you really need patience to watch it . but , i didn't think it was boring , and it it ultimately worth it in the end . Don Siegel ( who also worked with Eastwood on several of his Westerns ) directed the movie . if you are a Clint Eastwood fan or Don Siegel fan , you might like this movie .
pleasant surprise ( )	i figured this would be good movie , given that it stars Denzel Washington , two acting greats . but given its subject matter ( homosexuality , and AIDS discrimination ) i thought it would also be depressing . in fact , it isn't at all . there are some sombre moments , to be sure . it is very touching at times . i liked how the film doesn't take side on this issue . it merely present a story , and it's up to the viewer how they respond to it . i mentioned Denzel Washington and Tom Hanks . however , Mary Steenburgen also impressed me a lot . Antonia Banderas was also good in what i believe is his first English speaking role . the reasons this film is so good ( in no particular order ) are three fold . one-the acting . 2-the confident direction of Johnathon ( silence of the Lambs ) Demme . 3-the economical writing . i also have to mention the musical score as well as the theme song by Bruce Springsteen . both really complemented the movie well . overall , this was a good movie . one thing i didn't like is that one or two scenes went on a bit too long . however , those were few and far between . my vote for Philadelphia is a
the documentary that inspired the movie We are Marshall	i thought this was a good documentary . it was well done all around . i liked the fax that the filmmakers interviewed interesting people that were relevant to the event depicted in the documentary . i've found that that isn't always the case . the documentary is basically about the 1970 Marshall College Football team , almost all of who perished in a plane crash on their way back home . as well as the team , the coaching staff and several community leaders also lost their lives . the documentary also gives some background in to the team before the crash . it shows how the town lived and breathed the team . and of course it details the aftermath of the crash and the effect it had on those who , for whatever reason , were not on board the plane that fateful day as well as family members and friends left behind . these people are interviewed , and you can tell the impact the tragedy had and still does to this day . the documentary is very touching , without being maudlin , and is done in a way that is not horribly depressing . it is sad for sure and tragic , but the filmmakers also focus on the good that came from the tragedy . , which i will leave up to you to watch . . also , they talk about the team today . overall , a fascinating documentary which inspired the movie We are Marshall . anyway , i hope people read this comment and check the documentary out .
fast paced , but doesn't seem like it till it's over	this is the complete pilot episode for the TV show of the same name . it's surprisingly very entertaining . it's from the novel by Stephen King , and directed by Robert Lieberman . it's very tautly directed and well acted , especially by Anthony Michael Hall , who is the lead character . i liked his character a lot . he was sympathetic and likable . this is one of the better Stephen King adaptations . it isn't necessarily original , but i liked what they did with the material . it doesn't seem fast paced while you're watching it , but it's over before you know it . it is only 87 minutes , but it doesn't feel incomplete at all . the ending is ambiguous , but obviously there are more episodes in the series . for me , The Dead Zone is an
Jumanji in space	from the same world as Jumanji , Zathura is exciting and thrilling . it gets going fairly quickly and doesn't let up until the end . there is not as much comedy in this one , but i think it's more exciting . the special effects are much better here . of course this movie is a decade older , so that makes sense . Kristen Stewart is barely in the movie and Tim Robbins has what amounts to a cameo . Dax Shepherd is quite entertaining here . there are lot of plot holes here , for sure , but once you get caught up in the story , that probably won't matter . this is a movie the whole family can enjoy , although there are a few mild sear words . for me , Zathura is an
good writing , good intensity and a real sense of peril	this movie deals with the same theme as " sleeping With the Enemy " which came out over a decade earlier . the theme is spousal abuse . as in " Enemy " a woman ( Jennifer Lopez ) meets the man of her dreams , ( Bill Campbell ) only to find out he's actually the man of her nightmares . so she runs away , only to be tracked relentlessly at every turn by psycho husband who has no qualms about killing her . faced with no other options , she learns to protect herself and decides to confront him . this element added a bit of originality to the film . daughter , fathered by her psycho husband Mitch ( Campbell ) and has to protect her as well . i liked this movie more than " Sleeping With the Enemy " mainly because of the added element of a child to protect and that the abused wife decides to physically confront her abuser . their's obviously more action , but i also think the writing is very good . you can feel the intensity and the peril that Slim is in . the only knock i have against this movie is that at times it strays into unreality territory . other than that , i liked it . my vote for " Enough " is
Ghost Rider makes the leap from comic book to screen	as far as comic book adaptations go , this is not a bad movie , i can't say how accurate it is to its source material , but i didn't mind it . it's basically about a young motorcycle stuntman named Johnny Blaze . as a young man . johnny is tricked into selling his soul to the devil for reasons revealed in the movie . years later , the devil calls upon his services as " Ghost Rider " a flame skulled entity from the dark side who is basically the devil's bounty hunter . i liked this movie quite a bit , although it seemed a bit rushed . i think they could have fleshed it out a bit more . but to be fair , there is some voice over narration in the film , which does provide an overview of the whole Ghost Rider Legend . if you're a fan of the comic , you probably know all you need to know . Nic Cage , as the older Johnny Blaze / Ghost Rider is well cast . he seems to suit the role well and is believable ( in the context of the movie ) . i like the music . it went well with the movie . there is a lot of action in the movie and some cgi , which is well done , but not groundbreaking or anything . ( although Ghost Rider's flaming skull was kinda cool ) The beautiful and talented Eva Mendes plays the love interest , but her screen time is far too short . her character should have had more to do . she is very charismatic , so the scenes she was in left me wanting more . oh , well , hopefully her character will play a larger role in the sequel . as for the movie itself , my friend and i had free passes , so i can't really complain . it is a fun movie to watch , but doesn't linger long after viewing . i will go see the sequel when it comes out , as i believe it will probably improve on this one .
very suspenseful , psychological thriller	this movie is about a family that moves into what they believe will be their dream home . it is old and falling apart , but they believe that once they fix it up , it will be the home they've always wanted . sounds alright so far . however , they notice something strange . when they move in the house is filled with possessions of the previous owners . then weird thongs begin to happen . they discover the house holds a dark secret . and someone else decides the house belongs to them . Sharon Stone and Dennis Quaid play Cooper and Leah Tilson , the proud new owners . Stephen Dorrf is also in the film as is Juliette Lewis . The film is directed by Mike Figgis . it is a psychological suspense thriller , with out a lot of gore and graphic violence . a rare treat in these days of slice'em dice'em , hack and slash movies . this movie has a very eerie atmosphere throughout and works well as a ghost story . if you want some genuine chills , i recommend " Cold Creek Manor "
pretty good political thriller . ( )	this is a pretty good political thriller . aside from a few slow moments , it's well paced . it's very intense and suspenseful . i did find it a bit predictable , but that's a minor quibble with this film . Dustin Hoffman stars as a college student who unwittingly becomes caught up in political intrigue and danger . Laurence Oliver stars as well in a chilling villainous performance . William Devane co stars . but i really liked the Swiss actress Marthe Keller . she was very good here in my opinion . you may not think the title The Marathon Man means much but it actually ties in well with the movie . in any event , this is a taught well made thriller . for me , The marathon Man is a
what price , fame ?	this is the first version of this movie made , and the only version i have seen so far . i liked it . i thought it was touching and ironic , and also tragic . it basically tells what the movie business can do to you , and the sacrifices that are made . it also shows how disposable the industry and the people in it are . as long as you are the flavour of the week , everything seems fine . but when you're no longer useful , reality hits and things can come crashing down . that's what basically happens in this story . it's an indictment ( ironically ) of the movie industry , however subtle . regardless , i thought it was well done . the acting by the tow leads , Janet Gaynor , and Frederic March , as well as the supporting performances , are terrific . i also thought the writing was very good , and the movie flows very well . for me , A Star is Born gets an
it's a mystery to me	i finally got around to watching this second X Files movie . i didn't know what to expect , since i hadn't paid any attention to any of the news or hype surrounding it . however , i really liked . i thought it was better than the first X Files movie Fight the Future . whereas that movie focused on the alien / government conspiracy storyline from the TV series . this new movie has very little to do with the paranormal aspect . there is a little of that , but it's a small part of the story . this is a standalone movie which in my my mind works . it's much deeper in terms of storyline . i wouldn't call it a horror movie , but there are some horrific scenes in it . as far as action goes , there not a lot of it . this is more a story and character driven piece . there's a lot of suspense . at first glance , the movie may seem to move very slow , but that deliberate pacing really works in this movies favour . i also thought having Amanda Peet in the cast was a real plus . if you're an X Files purist , you probably won't like this movie . otherwise , though , i encourage you to check it out . a solid
continuing the story The The Rubberface of Comedy	this episode is a continuation of the previous episode The Rubberface of Comedy , which i really enjoyed . this is the last episode of season 1 . i liked this episode as well as the previous . i like where they took the story . i hadn't seen a full episode of this series until i watched the previous episode . after having watched this episode and the previous one , i noticed that there is more depth to the character of Bruce Wayne . the series seems to touch more on the personal life and tragic aspect that id the Batman / Bruce Wayne . of course , i've now only seen 2 episodes , and maybe it's just my imagination . either way , this story contained in the 2 episodes was good and a good intro to the series . for me , The Batman : The Clayface of Tragedy is an
criminals beware	as far third movies in a series go , this one isn't half bad . it's not as lite hearted as the previous 2 , and none of the cast return for this installment . it's basically the same plot line . kid is home alone , and is the target of criminals . , but these are no ordinary , bungling burglars . these guys are serious . but , this kid is very clever , and once again his house becomes one big booby trap . again we have the slapstick and pratfalls as the crooks become victims of one painful ( and hilarious ) sequence of events after another . this is actually a very funny movie . i laughed so hard i cried a couple of times . i think it's at least as funny as the two previous movies , but it doesn't have the heart or soul of either of them . but for fun factor alone , it's well worth watching . for me , Home Alone 3 is an
hardly the travesty i'd expected based on the criticisms	before watching this animated Star Wars movie , i was expecting something horrible . but , i gotta say , it isn't that horrible . true , it's slow at times , and at other times it just gets repetitive with pretty much the same action sequences happen over and over again . yet , despite that , i did find it a fairly enjoyable romp . there area some funny moments , and . teeny little spoileri liked the banter between Anakin and his Padewan ( not sure i spelled that right ) and the light saber battles were decent , if not spectacular . i didn't find the dialogue all that bad . some of the baddies are familiar from previous Star Wars movies , but there is a new bad character , who i actually liked and i wished had played a larger role . another little spoilerif you're expecting the usual iconic opening theme , you won't get it here . as well , the equably iconic crawl which sets up the story is missing , instead replaced by a brief voice over , which sounds sillyend of spoiler . and there isn't really much of a story . what story there is hangs by the most fragile of threads . but that's not unusual for a Star wars movie , so that isn't necessarily a valid complaint . for what it was , i liked it . i may get roasted alive for this but i give Star Wars : The Clone Wars an
A romantic comedy that is actually funny , very funny at times ( imagine that )	Finally , a decent romantic comedy . not really a chick flick , but something a guy could enjoy as much as a woman . also , very witty , with more than a few laugh out loud moments . great acting from all , good direction , and also very good writing . i won't give away any thing about the plot of the movie , for those who haven't seen it . but i will say this movie is unique for a couple of reasons . first off , it is one of the few movie billed as a romantic comedy , that has comedy . it's actually funny . Imagine that . Second , there is a romance aspect to the film , but it is not so mooshy ( I know mooshy isn't really a word , but it fits ) that guys won't like it . it's almost romance lite . so a guy can see this movie with his girlfriend and actually say he enjoyed it . and , quite frankly , a guy could watch it on his own , without his manhood being questioned . I'd recommend Prime to any one who likes comedy and romance , female or male . a strong
" this time , it " s War " ( where have i heard that before ? )	" Death Wish 3 " brings back Charles Bronson as one time vigilante Paul Kersey , now retired . yeah , right . before long Kersey is back to his old ways . but this time , its not just a few muggers at a time , its a gang who have taken over a run down part of the city ( New York again , by the way . ) this time its war , so Kersy Hauls out the big guns ( literally ) for this . the body count int his one rivals anything Stallone or Schwarzenegger have come up with . this movie is actually somewhat fun to watch , particularly for a few one liners and of course bad guys die , or get severely injured in creative ways , which is always a good thing . the violence is not as personal in this one , its , obviously on a much grander scale , sort of like bombing your victims from afar , rather than one on one combat . this movie is lighter in tone than the 1st 2 , making it easier to watch . there's not much import to this film , its more escapism than anything . its also cheesy at times and pseudo-inspirational , but hose scenes fall flat . they should have left the original " Death Wish " on its own without sequels , but since they didn't , they should have stopped here . 8 / 10
very entertaining horror flick , with some brains behind it	rest stop is an enjoyable horror film for the most part . it does veer into disgusting territory for a couple of scenes , but unlike some recent films of the genre does not revel in depravity . the movie has a unique twist that keeps it from being your typical standard horror movie . there are of course , some of the necessary elements for a film of this genre , such as the character who does all the right stupid things , and it does borrow from one or two other movies . however , it is nonetheless an entertaining ride , which should get the adrenaline flowing . there do seem to be some inconsistencies in the movie , although there may be reasons for this . this movie requires more than one viewing in order to fully understand what is happening . it should make you think , and by that i mean about the subtleties of the plot and not the disgust factor . as an aside , the cop who gets his legs run over is played by Joseph Lawrence , one time child actor Joey Lawrence out of 10
first rate Chuck Norris movie	Silent is Ondoubtably one of Chuck Norris'best movies . Chuck plays Dan Stevens , small town sheriff who responds to a domestic disturbance and discovers a murder . but that is the least of his worries . he find out the killer is still in the house . after a very long struggle , the killer is shot by police and killed . all seems well , but then murders star happening again and Dan is called in to investigate . let's just say that Dan finds out the hard way that the killer is not so dead . and he is no ordinary man . Dan tracks the maniac down and confronts him , using all his martial arts abilities . the psycho escapes and Dan barely escapes with his life . the most refreshing thing about his movie is the fact that the villain is more than worthy of our hero . in many such films of this genre , the villain is easily and soundly beaten , while the hero sometimes escapes without a scratch . obviously not very realistic . this time , the villain is not just a punching bag . in fact the good guy is in peril at times . the fight scenes are good , especially the climax . the movie also brings up some interesting moral and ethical issues , which are way ahead of their time . aside from that , this is one of Chuck's better movies . very entertaining .
well done horror movie	the movie saw was well done in every aspect . i liked the opening sequence , which gave you just enough information to keep watching . i especially liked the intimate setting , which focused more on the characters than their surroundings which were very sparse . you are given background information on the characters , which is perfect for this movie . of course it helps that their are only only two main characters . you can't help but be emotionally involved as they wonder what to do next and how or even if they will survive . i liked the gritty look of the film and the lighting was well done . the actors were believable , and even though the victims were not necessarily the most morally upstanding people , they were still sympathetic enough to root for . the villain was very original and creative , the likes of which , as far as i'm aware had not been seen before , or since . i liked the fact that he wasn't your typical psychopath , in that , in his mind he was giving his victims the chance to redeem themselves , cleanse themselves of sin , and gain a new appreciation for the lives they were given . you might say he was merely doing a good deed . he was sort of a philosopher on the human condition . it was refreshing to see a villain who was behind the scenes and not actually perpetrating his crimes directly , like , say , your garden variety maniac . don't get me wrong , he was obviously crazy and had a messianic complex , holding the power of life and death over his victims . he just wasn't your typical crazy . he was actually a multi-dimensional baddie . imagine that . in a nutshell , he wore many hats . man , this movie is deep on so many levels . anyway , there was also quite a bit of blood and gore , but it was necessary for the story . the ending was also good , naturally setting up nicely for the sequel . i know i'm rambling , so i'll wrap it up . basically , saw was a very good movie . i recommend it highly , especially if you're tired of all the the slice'n dice movies with stupid characters that you actually hope get killed .
a movie of a true crime based on a book which may have some basis in truth	this is a TV movie based on the murder of Martha Moxley in Greenwich in the mid 1970's . based how much on truth it's hard to tell . this much is certain . it is based on the book written by Mark Fuhrman . anyway , the movie depicts the crime in flashbacks and its aftermath , including the arrest of a suspect , some 25 years after , who was never considered a suspect at the time . in the movie , Fuhram of course is largely responsible for the arrest and closure of the case for Martha's surviving family , in particular her mother . the narrative of the film is by the ghost of Martha Moxley , talking in the first person . this is a very effective device in this movie . to me , it adds more impact to the movie , and puts a human face on the murder victim ( if only an actress playing the part ) Maggie grace plays Martha , and i was really impressed with her . there is no way for certain to know Mark Fuhrman's motive in investigating the crime . it could have been out of a sense of justice and maybe he really cared . or maybe he just saw dollar signs from a future bestselling book . either way , it makes for an interesting movie . it's well acted and fairly fast paced . i don't think there was a lot of extra , unnecessary stuff in the movie , just what was needed to tell the story . one could argue that they left out things that would have shed a bit more light on the proceedings , and one would be right . also , one may argue that the ending was abrupt and again one would be right . but , as i said , for me , i think they told the story with at least most of the essentials . anything else would have likely required a miniseries . as an aside , there is a miniseries entitled " A Season in Purgatory " which came out 6 years ealier ( 1996 ) which this movie has some parallels to , even if only faint . however , if you like this movie , " Then you may be interested in " A Season in Purgatory " . it is my belief that " a Season in Purgatory " is in fact a fictionalized account of the same crime . anyway , for me , Murder in Greenwich " is an
worthy follow up to the original	" Blade 2 " is obviously the sequel to the original . David S Goyer once again wrote the script , based on characters created for Marvel Comics by Marv Wolfman and Gene Colan . Guillermo del Torro takes over the directing reigns from Stephen Norrington . the storyline this time around is more complex than the original . the original had a pretty basic storyline , which is fine for Blade's introduction . now that Blade's character has been somewhat fleshed out , a stronger storyline has to be established . so there is an interesting twist in this film . the stronger story makes the movie more dramatic , so there are less action sequences . the story is slower of course , but it is worth it . a more human sensitive side of blade is revealed . there are still plenty of action scenes , many of which are more spectacular this time around . Wesley Snipes reprises his role of " Blade " , naturally and Snipes really gets to show of his fighting prowess and athleticism in this installment . the direction is as good as the original , though it has its own style . the special effects are improved here , and the tone of the film is darker in generally but there are little touches of mild humour added . the music is again well suited to the movie . overall , a good followup film . a solid
sublime but effective mini series giving a snapshot of what the super wealthy and powerful can get away with	this is a compelling , engaging mini series based in part on a real life event and the aftermath . it's long , clocking in at over 2 and a half hours ( without commercials ) but it never once failed to maintain my interest . it's basically about how a young man of wealth and influence commits a horrendous crime , and because of the family influence and power , is able to cover it up for many years . i won't say what happens next . you'll have to watch it to find out . i'm pretty certain most people will find this movie not only fascinating and engrossing , but also illuminating . even though it's a fictional telling of an actual event with fictional characters , both the characters and the event mirror real life people of wealth and privilege and how normal laws and morals do not apply to them . so while you are being entertained , you also get a snapshot of the super wealthy and powerful as a bonus . this is really an ambitious production and it succeeds in what it sets out to do , in my mind . i wouldn't call it powerful exactly . it's more sublime and it just kind of sneaks up on you as it moves toward it conclusion . nevertheless , it is still very effective . the acting in this movie is very good from people you wouldn't necessarily associate with the kind of characters they play in this movie . Brian Dennehy plays the family patriarch and gives a commanding performance . Patrick Dempsey plays a childhood friend of the family . Sherilyn Finn plays one of the daughters of the clan . Edward Herman has a what amounts to an extended cameo , but is terrific in his scenes . but it is Bonnie Bedelia who really impressed me with her character . she isn't in the movie for very long and not until close to the end , but in my mind , she really stand out . i won't say what character she plays because i don't wan to give anything away , even the smallest detail . for me , " A Season in Purgatory " is a strong
the inspiration for John Ford's classic My Darling Clementine	i liked this western quite a bit . it is made in 1939 , and some may find the pace a bit sedate , but that didn't bother me . i liked the story and the cast of characters . the main character is Wyatt Earp ( Randolph Scott ) newly deputized as marshal to try to bring some law into the town of Tombstone . The character Of Doc Halliday ( Ceasar Romero ) also plays a prominent role . there were a few scenes which were meant to be funny , and they probably were back in 1939 , but they fell a bit flat for me . it's the movie that inspired the John Ford classic My Darling Clementine ( 1946 ) . the 1957 movie Gunfight at the OK Corral is also apparently inspired by this movie . one thing i should mention is that the sound and the picture were crystal clear , so kudos for Fox for the technical work that went into the DVD . anyway , when all is said and done , i thought this was a pretty good movie . easily an
the true ( animated ) story of Red Riding Hood ( not really of , course )	forget everything you've heard about " Little Red Riding Hood " , this is the true story . well , not really of course but is an animated take on the fairy tale . the gist of the story is that the police have been looking for the perpetrator of a series of crimes ( non-violent of course ) , well one crime , actually , committed several times . anyway , a series of events lead the police to 4 suspects : Red herself , ( Anne Hathaway ) Granny ( Glen Close ) , The Woodsman ( Jim Belushi ) The Wolf ( Patrick Warburton ) . we are treated to a series of flashbacks , one by each character depicting the events that had transpired according to their own viewpoint . By the way , almost all the characters in the movie , from the police chief on down , are characters mostly from the original rendition of the fairly tale . Some of these characters are quite amusing anyway , through the flashbacks , we are treated to some comedy , action ( including some extreme sports ) some drama , mystery , and the movie even becomes a musical for a brief time . and there are some suspenseful moments . there are also some scenes of mild to moderate peril , so it might be a bit too much for very young children , otherwise it all adds up to one very entertaining experience suitable for ( generally ) the whole family . as well , it is also unpredictable , right until nearly the very end , when the perpetrator is finally revealed ( it is not who you might think ) . finally , all the actor's voices really went well with their respective roles . truly a wacky , unique tale on the Red riding Hood Fable .
Hitler times 94 in modern times	at first i didn't like this movie . i mean , it is a slow paced movie . despite the fact that Laurence Olivier and Gregory Peck are in it , i couldn't muster much enthusiasm for it , in the beginning . it does pick up enough in the second act to maintain more interest , so , i did watch the whole movie . the story takes place in 1977 or 78 . the basic premise is that Ezra Lieberman ( Olivier ) a Nazi Hunter ( and presumably concentration camp survivor ) has discovered a plot to make perfect clones of Hitler-94 to be exact . Barry Kohler ( a young Steve Guttenberg ) a young Jewish man has provided Lieberman with some of the intelligence on the plot . The evil mastermind behind the scheme is none other than Dr . Joseph Mengle , ( Gregory Peck ) a sadistic Nazi who tortured many Jews during the war . it is during the last act , where Peck gives a tour deforce performance , that really elevates this movie . however , the movie is something that should be watched because of the message it has . namely , the horrible cost that would be incurred if some madman decided to clone a nut job like Hitler . this movie is actually ahead of its time , but is really relevant in modern times , given the controversy over cloning . normally , i don't go for this message type of movie , but in this case i'll make an exception . the whole concept is disturbing to say , the least , especially when you consider all the nut jobs running around in the world . i'd recommend this movie to anyone .
when it comes right down to it , we're all phonies ( )	after watching this movie , one thing really struck me : how talented Carole Lombard was as an actress . she has a real gift for comedy , of which there is a fair amount in this film . i found i very funny , but beyond that , i just thought it was well written , and even more relevant today than back then . it basically skewers every imaginable target , including the price of fame , and paints pretty much everybody as phonies , when you you get right down to it . even your average every day person is painted with that brush . but this is also a romance and drama , and it also works on those levels . Fredric March is the male lead , and he does pretty well in the role . the supporting players are also good , but , like i said , it is Carole Lombard who steals the show . i had a great time watching this film , and highly recommend it . my vote for Nothing Sacred :
Newman , Paul Newman	Paul Newman stars in this story of a washed up , alcoholic lawyer , with a a long losing streak . he gets handed a case which he could settle out of court , but doesn't . instead he takes it to trial . that's the gist of The Verdict . it has it's compelling moments , especially when Newman is on screen . he's hard to take your eyes off . Charlotte Rampling is also very good here . Jack Warden has a supporting performance , but his character doesn't have a lot to do . this is really Newman's show . the film is very deliberate in it's pacing , which builds suspense for the last scene . i don't think it's to realistic , but that's not the point . the point is , it's an entertaining tale with great acting
spectacular fight scenes elevate this movie	i really enjoyed this movie . it's jam packed with action . the fight scenes are spectacular and many different styles are showcased . this movie focuses more on action than story or characters , compared to the first one , in my opinion . the intensity is much higher in this one and the stakes are raised . the first one is rated PG-13 , while this one is rated R . it is certainly more brutal and graphic in its violence , though i have seen much worse . anyway , this movie is a lot of fun . it's very fast paced . the story is fairly weak , and has been done many times before , but like i said , the fight scenes are spectacular and pretty much make up for the story . all in all , i think it's certainly as good as the first one , maybe a smidgen better . for me , Best of the Best 2 is a very solid
a very entertaining story of possession , which does not follow the usual formula	i really enjoyed this movie . it's a movie about a man who , becomes possessed by an evil spirit . at the beginning we are told it is based on factual events , which is possible , but there's no way to verify that claim . for a made for TV , this 1 is quite well done . i think a big part of the reason for this is that the movie focuses more on the acting than than on big budget , bombastic special effects . the effects are low key , but well done . the movie also dwells on the psychological aspects of someone being posses and how they deal with it . the acting is very convincing , more so than in many movies of the genre , made for TV or not . i also like that you don't know the reason for the possession , and when the reason is revealed , it's somewhat surprising ( at least for me , it was ) the movie doesn't take the usual rouete travelled by most in the genre , which is refreshing . all in all , a very entertaining suspenseful , well acted movie . my vote : a strong
something different from Vin Diesel	i liked this movie . it's funny , it has action and it has a good message , but it doesn't hit you over the head with it . i will say though that the beginning of the movie is pretty violent . but once you get past those first few minutes , the tone becomes quite lite . Vin Diesel shows his comedic side , and does very well . there are a lot of funny moments in this movie , and there's also some mild action violence . there are a few mild swear words , but nothing offensive . Brad Garrett also has a funny role and is very good as well . if you liked either Cheaper by the Dozen ( 2003 ) or Cheaper by the Dozen 2 ( 2005 ) with Steve Martin , or Yours Mine and Ours ( 2005 ) , with Dennis Quaid and Renee Russo , you will probably like this movie . it is very similar in a lot of respects , but i thought it was funnier than any of those movies . it also balances comedy and action very well
as good as the first White Noise movie .	this sequel to white noise is actually pretty good . in terms of thrills , i found it better than the first and it's much more disturbing , and leaves you with a feeling of dread . the story though is much more implausible . it puts a religious spin on the proceedings . while electronic voice phenomena or EVP could have some reality to it , i seriously doubt that there's is any religious aspect to it , but that's just my opinion . things also get a bit muddled at times , at least i thought so . still , i thought Nathan Fillion was good in the lead role , and I like Katie Sackoff as the female lead , but i wish she had way more scenes , as she is barely in the movie . when you add everything up , i think there are more positives than negatives . for me White Noise 2 gets an
epic quality animated adventure without the epic length	this is a great animated adventure about the lost city of Atlantis . it has an epic feel with out the epic length . the animation is quite good , even spectacular at times . the movie is funny , dramatic and exciting . the voice actors also really fit their roles , and really put a lot of effort into their characterizations . speaking of which this a great mix of different characters that really play well off each other . plus the story is engaging and compelling . i really enjoyed myself for the 90 minutes or so run time of this movie . the rating for this movie is currently relatively low ( ) to me , the movie is much better than the rating currently reflects . i give " Atlantis : The Lost Empire " a strong
intriguing study on the psychological impact of war	without giving too much away , Tim Robbins is Jacob Singer , a soldier who survived Vietnam . twenty years later though , he is having flashbacks , and is losing grip on reality , not knowing what is real and what is fantasy . Elizabeth Pena , Ving Rhames , Eric La Salle , Danny Aiello , Matt Craven co-star . Jason Alexander and S . Epatha Merkerson also have small roles . Robbins gives a convincing performance , but i really liked Pena and Aiello . i thought they were both outstanding . this is a pretty good film , though i think they could have cut out 20 minutes or so . the film is also a bit of a downer at times , which is understandable given the subject matter . this isn't really a complaint , more of a personal observation . it's also very heavy on the drama , so don't expect a lot of action . anyway , for me Jacob's Ladder is an
" Laughter is the Best Medicine "	The story of a man who uses laughter to heal people . Hunter Adams , played by Robin Williams , goes through dark period in his life ( acquiring the nickname " Patch " along the way ) and emerges with a new outlook on life . he goes to medical school and becomes a doctor , bucking the system along the way , and butting heads with one of the Deans . the reason : Patch believes that laughter is truly the best medicine . as a result he delivers his own brand of medicine to the patients . along the way he makes some friends and teaches them the value of laughter . the movie also has dark side , and is very heart wrenching at times . but he message that laughter is the best medicine comes through strongly . ( maybe a bit to strongly ) it is a bit maudlin and overly inspirational at times , with some very cheesy scenes and it may not be completely realistic , but it has its heart in the right place .
John Wayne's first starring role	i really liked this film . it features John Wayne in his first starring performance . even then , you can tell Wayne has a real presence , although he wouldn't really mature into the icon he is known for until Stagecoach , 9 years later in 1939 . it's about settlers from all over the country heading to the new west to colonize it . Wayne's character Breck Coleman joins up , but for his own personal reasons . most of the main actors were stage actors and had never done a film before , which makes the movie even more amazing . they managed to create believable , distinctive characters and there is quite an oddball mix here . Cimarron would come out a year later , and had a very similar story , though i didn't like it as much as this movie . for me , The Big Trail is a strong .
first filmed adaptation of Conan Doyle's novel	this is the first filmed version of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's novel . it's also the first of fourteen Sherlock Holmes films Starring Basil Rathbone as Holmes and Nigel Bruce as his friend / sidekick , Dr . Watson . this is the second version i have seen , the first being the 1959 version starring Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee . i liked that one more . this 1939 version , while good , is slow at times . the acting is good , as one would expect . the story is interesting . as i said , this is a good adaptation , other than the slow pace . otherwise , i was entertained . interestingly , even though they are the main stars , Rathbone is billed second , and Bruce billed fourth in the film . anyway , it's a pretty good 80 minute or so diversion . for me , The Hound of the Baskervilles is an
a pretty good William Friedkin film ( Did i say that out loud ? )	the basic premise of this film is this : a trained special forces assassin who has gone AWOL from duty , begins killing hunters in backwood Oregen . the only man who may be able to stop is the man who trained him . and so the hunt is on . Benecio Del Torro is Aaron Hallam , the hunted , while Tommy Lee Jones is L . T Bonham , the Hunter . i should mention right away , that this movie has some very graphic and bloody violence , including scenes of war at the very beginning . both Jones and Del Tor are good in their roles . there is a lot of action and the fight scenes i thought were phenomenal , no flashy camera tricks , just well choreographed fighting . unfortunately for me , i have to admit that the director , William Friedkin made a pretty good movie here . i have been a basher of Friedkin for some time , having seen a few of his other films . however , he surprised and impressed me here , so give him credit .
sequel to House of 1000 Corpses	this sequel to Rob Zombies House of 1000 corpses , ( which was written and directed by Rob Zombie ) , is a bit different in tone . it's not as dark , there's more action , and there are more funny moments . it's not so much a horror as an action / crime drama . i don't feel it's as clever as House of 1000 corpses , but then , most sequels aren't . it is however , very entertaining and goes in an unexpected direction with a great ending . it's quite the thrill ride . it also sheds a bit more lite on the villains . Rob Zombie directed and wrote this movie once again , and he also produced it . for my money , it's as good as it's predecessor . for me , The Devil's rejects is an
very intense action sequences .	Mad Max 2 , also known as The Road Warrior is a different movie than the original . for one thing , you can watch this movie on its own , without having seen the first one . there is a voice over narration at the beginning telling you all you need to know about the events in the first one . the first movie had sustained action throughout . this one however , has less action , but the the action sequences it does have are very intense , and edge of your seat . here , the country is more desolate . the character of Max ( Mel Gibson ) is more developed . Max is no hero , more an antihero . he does what he has too to survive in the wasteland . mostly that means finding enough fuel to keep going . wherever it is he is going . he also has a continuing feud with a vicious biker gang that began in the first movie . for me , i didn't like this movie as much as part one , simply because i thought it dragged a bit . it's still a very good movie though . my vote for Mad Max 2 : The Road Warrior :
chapter 3	of the 3 prequels , this one is the best . Anakin is now a young man , very close to the dark side . helping him to get there is supreme chancellor Palpatine ( Ian Mcdiarmid ) a dark lord of the sith . Mcdiarmid clearly relishes his role as he brings an intensity and believability that must be seen to be believed . this is an Oscar worthy performance . the movie does a fairly good job of tying things up , as the saga concludes . there are , a few problems with the time line , of course , but despite that , the movie works . what everybody was waiting for was the reveal of Anakin into Darth Varder , and those chilling words : " Rise Lord Vader " ( Palpatine ) " Yes My Master " ( voice of Darth Vader ) so was the last scene worth the wait ? for the most part yes . it treads close to being funny , but stops just short . as for the movie itself , the best of the prequels , and closer in quality to the original trilogy .
Keri Russel , Laurence Fishburne , Philip Seymour Hoffman . . . .	the three main reasons this " Mission Impossible " entry is the best yet . yeah , Tom Cruise is back , of course , and does a good job as the main character Ethan Hunt . however , it is the presence of the three actors mentioned in my summary which make this movie succeed . first , Laurence Fishburne , a physically imposing presence for sure , but also extremely charismatic with a very palpably intense screen presence . i think he owns any scene he is in . next , Philip Seymour Hoffman , also a very strong screen presence who manges to be both understated and mesmerizing at the same time . and Keri Russel , ( from the dramatic TV series " Felicity " very impressive here in an action movie . she impressed me the most in this movie . there is just something about her , something intangible you can't put your finger on . the rest of the supporting cast are also strong . also , this third installment in the series is not convoluted , like the first , and not as reality defying as the second . don't get me wrong , there are some stunts that are not too realistic , but to a lesser degree and not as frequent . i also think the story is better and the villain is very strong . this would be the ideal end to the franchise , since it goes out on a high note . but time will tell . the last three or four " Bond " films ( excluding the last one ) were much more unrealistic . i highly recommend Mi : III . an easy
bury me in a nameless grave	this may be a horror movie , but it's not a run of the mill horror movie . for one thing , it's actually clever and creative . it's also a very dark comedy . the villains in this movie aren't your typical villains . they're quite memorable , with very good characterizations . the acting is very good , but Sheri Moon ( eventually Sherri Moon Zombie ) stands out with a brilliant performance . there are some really tense moments here , thanks to some good direction and timing . the look of the film is also great . it takes place in the 70's and some scenes are grainy and gritty reflecting many movies made at the time . the soundtrack is killer , with some boffo haunting tracks , and the score is also terrific . the music is 70's era sound , like the movie Planet Terror , one half of the Grindhouse feature . House of 100 corpses is Rob Zombie's first feature film as writer and director . the only other Rob Zombie movie i have seen is The recent Halloween remake , which i liked . i was more impressed with House of 1000 copses though . for me , House of 1000 Copses is a well deserved
great movie . loaded with suspense and authentic performances	i was pleasantly surprised by this movie . i thought it was terrific . it's got loads of suspense and tension . i also liked the atmosphere over the movie overall . it's well acted . i found the interaction between the mother and her teenage daughter to be very authentic . the movie is not boring at all . in fact , it movies along at a very nice clip . there is one great ironic scene , which i thought was brilliant . it may not have been original , but it works in this case , regardless . the general premise isn't wholly original , but i like what they did with the material . to me , this movie is quite above average for the suspense / thriller genre . i caught this movie on cable , so it didn't cost me anything ( other than my monthly cable bill , of course ) . i think it's well worth the two hours or so spent watching . for me , Lisa , AKA The Candle Light Killer is an
worth watching for the the bad acting and its unintentional comedic value	i liked this movie , mainly just because of its entertainment value . there are some pretty funny moments , most of them unintentional , i imagine . it is also not very politically correct compared to most of todays movies . if you go into this movie expecting good acting , i think you will be disappointed . but , the movie does have some pretty good martial arts fighting scenes , though at times they are ridiculously absurd and unrealistic . i did like the different fighting styles shown in the movie . the sound effects are horrible , yet are great for their comedic value . the movie is very low budget and the plot is almost non existent . but for action and comedy , you can't go wrong with this movie . it is a classic and very hard to find , but if you come across it , you will likely be very amused , at the least . based on the fight scenes and the comedic value , i give " Kill or be Killed "
way above average thriller	i liked " red dragon " a lot . it was was well written and well directed . the acting was very good , in particular harvey keitel , in a small role . the action scenes were well done and the characters were sympathetic , so you felt their pain and anguish . the dramatic scenes were done to great effect , not simply filler , but actually serving a purpose . there was also plenty of suspense , excellent in this case , since the movie take place before the events in " the silence of the lambs " do . even though you know the story , the director still manages to keep you on edge and keep you interested in the story . i found the dialogue refreshing , not clichd and awkward , as is the case quite often . i bought " red dragon and have watched it more than once , enjoying it each time . if this is your type of genre , you will like this movie
well worth watching for some good acting and chilling moments	this little movie was released in 2005 , and it is actually pretty good . there are some tense and chilling moments and some decent acting on the whole . i really like Robin Tunney as an actress . i think she is very talented , but she seemed a bit too weepy for my taste , in this movie . the movie is based on the the Zodiac murders of the late 60's . i'm sure the filmmakers took a bit of dramatic license for effect , but from what iv'e read of the case , i think most of the relevant info remained intact . the movie is very dramatic at times , although not boring . in fact , in my opinion , the movie is much more story and character driven than many similar movie in thew genre . we get some insight into a few of the characters , though not a lot . nevertheless , the movie is very engaging and compelling . to me , the most disturbing moments are hearing the Zodiac as he taunts the police . these scenes really sent shivers down my spine . . all in all , this movie is quite good . i haven't seen the newest version directed by David Fincher , so i can't compare the two . for me the 2005 release of " The Zodiac " is a strong
Resarcher tests invisibility serum on self , becomes psychotic	" Hollow Man " is about a group of scientists working on an invisibility serum for the military . naturally this research is top secret , with only the military and the researchers knowing about it . the group is led by Sebastien Caine ( Kevin Bacon ) a brilliant if arrogant human being . also part of the team are Linda McKay ( Elisabeth Shue ) ( who also happens to be Sebastiens's ex-girlfriend ) , Matthew Kensington ( josh Brolin ) Linda's current boyfriend , and Sarah Kennedy , ( Kim Dickens ) the resident veterinarian who does her best to make sure that the animals which the serum is being tested on do not come to harm . the serum has been unsuccessful to this point , resulting in the animals dieing horrible deaths . and of course Sebastien is jealous of the relationship between Linda and Matthew . finally , Sebastion becomes impatient and decides to become the guinea pig for the serum . the serum works sort of , but the invisibility does not wear off . Sebastien begins to lose his grip on reality ( due to the effects of the serum ) and becomes psychotic while developing a messianic complex when he realizes he can get away with anything , since no one can see him . suffice to say his dark side emerges and the rest of the team must try to keep him locked in the lab , and also avoid being killed or injured by Sebastion . you can guess what happens next . there are some gory scenes , and if you're an animal lover , you might want prepare yourself .
a very well done Joanne Kilbourn murder mystery	this is a Joanne Kilbourn mystery , of the continuing series of movies with Joanne Kilbourn ( Wendy Crewson ) as the main character . Basically , Joanne is a retired police officer , who finds herself knee deep in one mystery after another , involving murder . Technically , she aids the police in the investigation , although she does most of the work , and ends up solving the crime herself ( with the help of the police ) . the police , at least in this movie , are represented mainly by Inpector Philip Millard , Joanne's old partner , played by Victor Garber . both Crewson and Garber are first rate actors , and work very well together . both are very credible in their respective roles , and add an extra air of legitimacy to the project . the rest of the cast is also strong . This movie is very suspenseful , has a lot of action , and some pretty violent and graphic ( for a TV movie ) scenes . the production value feels much higher than it probably is , a rare treat for a TV movie . there is certainly no " movie of the week " feel to this one . I really enjoyed it . i only wish we had more actors the calibre of Crewson and Garber in more movies . ( Garber can be seen in the thrilling spy series " Alias " , with Jeniffer Garner , and Crewson has been in some high profile American movies ) both are underused and underrated in the film industry . Any way , enough prattling on . this movie gets a strong
return to action	this third movie in the Indiana Jones series is much liter in tone than the second one , The Temple 0f Doom . there is also more action , a lot more . and there are also number of comic moments , courtesy of the banter between Indiana ( Harrison Ford ) and his Father , Henry ( Sean Connery ) the two have great general and comedic chemistry and both have some good lines . this movie is clever and witty . Connery is a nice addition to the series . i think it's as good , or near as good as Raiders of the Lost Ark , the first one in the series . i liked how the movie ended on a high note . this would have been a fitting end to the series , if they hadn't made a fourth installment , which i have yet to see . as for The Last Crusade , i think it rates a
a very clever whodunit ( )	i fo8und this to be a clever little murder mystery . i didn't find it scary , but it was very engrossing and well acted . Vincent Price and Agnes Moorehead were excellent , as was the supporting cast liked the setting : an isolated mansion . there was also a great mix of odd character , all whom acted suspicious and any one of them could have been the killer . i liked the fact that i was kept guessing to the end as to the killer's identity . i also thought the movie was very well pace , and never boring . the music was odd , but i did like it . for a black and white movie , this one had a very clear picture and crisp sound . all in all , a very entertaining movie . i highly recommend it .
hysterically funny sci / fi spoof of pop culture and " the cult of celebrity "	Galaxy Quest is a comedy sc / fi action adventure film rolled into one . it is a spoof of Star Trek and and other sc / ci TV shows / movies . but more than that , and more importantly , it also pokes fun at popular culture and how absurd we have become as a society . for instance , the worshipping of Celebreties as idols . " the cult of Celebrity " plays a prominent role in this movie . any movie that skewers celebrities and brings them down a peg is always a good thing . this is great satire . in this case it also happens to be hysterically funny at times , with great action and even some romance . the movie is not done in a mean spirited way , so is not overtly offensive or insulting to it's targets ( well , okay , to some it would be , but we won't get into that here ) although i guess , to be fair it is pretty blatant . oh well , cry me a river . honestly , the average human being that enjoys laughing frequently will enjoy this movie
loved it	here is a movie with slam bang action and great dialogue . but in order to enjoy it , you will have to suspend your disbelief past the stretching point . if you can do that , then you should really enjoy yourself . id ' say it's basically a summer popcorn movie , but it was released in January . regardless , i had a blast while watching this movie . th violence is nearly off the charts , so if you don't like a lot of violence , you should probably avoid this one . also there is a lot of very coarse language , so if that's not your bag , you might want to look for a different movie . it's basically mindless fun for the most part , but like i said i loved the dialogue . i also really like the strange mix of characters , which make things more interesting . my advice if you choose to watch this movie , pop it in , and turn off your brain for the duration . by the way , i haven't seen the original 1976 version , so i can't compare the two . but for me , the 2005 version of Assault on Precinct 13 is a
terrifically entertaining and thought provoking movie dealing with possibility of WW3	i really liked this movie . i'm not really fond of Tony Scott's directing style , at least his last few efforts anyway . but Scott is fairly restrained for this 1995 film . the film takes place during heightened tensions between most of the world ( including the United States and a rogue Russian leader who has amassed some support for his cause , which is too start World War Three . most of the action takes place at sea as tensions come to a boiling point as the crew of one U . S . Submarine , led by seasoned veteran Captain Frank Ramsey ( Gene Hackman ) is on the verge of launching nuclear missiles at the enemy after being attacked by what may be a rogue Russian attack sub . however , things are not that simple , as Ramsey's XO ( executive officer ) Lt Commander Ron Hunter ( Denzel Washinton ) who has never been in a battle situation before and he and Ramsey butt heads regarding navy protocol in this particular situation , leading to chaos on the ship . there is more than that going on , but i don't wan't to give too much away . there's quite a bit of intense action and tension as things progress . Both Hackman and Washington are both superb actors and it shows here . as the two face off , you can see the intensity crackle between the two . there are also some great supporting actors in the movie . that coupled with Scott's restraint and the lack of kinetic and sometimes choppy action sequences that have become his trademark really make this film work . there is only one thing i didn't like about the movie , and i don't mean to be critical of Americans in general , with this , ( his pertains more to many filmmakers ) but here goes . for me , there was a bit too much American flag waving . the U . S is more than once referred to as the greatest nation in the world . now there is nothing wrong with patriotism from any country , but there is such a thing as overkill . i think many people would say that their own country is the greatest ( or at they may think it ) or maybe i'm wrong . don't misunderstand me , i think the U . S is a great country , despite its problems . the ironic thing to me is that Tony Scott is actually from the U . K . otherwise , the movie itself is highly entertaining and thought provoking . my little complaint is merely an observation and doesn't take too much away from the film's quality . therefore i give " Crimson Tide " a
gripping , edge of your seat thriller	this is one intense nail biting movie . basically , Jeffrey Taylor ( Kurt Russel ) and his wife Amy ( Kathleen Quinlan ) are driving on a lonely stretch of highway , when there vehicle inexplicably breaks down . they flag down a passing trucker who says he will take Amy to the nearest town for help while Jeff stays with the vehicle . flash forward sometime later and Amy has not returned . i leave it at that . if you wanna know more , then you'll have to watch the movie . what follows is nail biting suspense and tension and lots of action . you'll have to employ some suspension of disbelief ( though much less than many films ) once you do that , you should enjoy this movie . i was on the edge of my seat quite a bit . for me , " Breakdown is a
action , adventure , danger , romance and humour ( what else do you need ? )	i don't see why this movie has such a low rating here ( ) i mean it has load of action , suspense , intrigue , romance . it's funny and has great stunts . granted , it doesn't have the epic scope of the " Pirates of the Caribbean " films , but it's a different movie . it's a light hearted , fun romp which doesn't pretend to be anything else . it's not just fun and games , of course . there are some sc4ens of peril and danger , but these elements are all balanced very well . add to that , The performances of Matthew Modine and Geena Davis , as well as a great supporting cast , and you have the ingredients for one terrific movie . and lets not forget the direction of Renny Harlin . these things are all enough for me to highly recommend the movie . for me " Cutthroat Island " is a strong
i thought it was very suspenseful , creepy and entertaining	i thought this was a really good movie . it's a sort of ghost story / end of the world prophecy combination . it has some similarities to both " The Ring " and " The Grudge " . i didn't really care for those 2 movies . i just didn't feel they worked for me . this 1 however , worked really well for me . there are many very suspenseful and eerie moments . the hair on my neck stood up a lot in this movie . i thought the acting was pretty good . i also liked that fact that they kept you guessing about things until the end . i did , anyway , and i wasn't sure how it would end . i like unpredictability in these kinds of movies . the ending is sort of open ended , so you can come to your own conclusions . i think this is 1 of the better movies of this genre , that i have seen . i'm sure there are lot's of plot holes and inconsistencies , if you really look for them . but i just wanted to be entertained and hopefully creeped out for a couple hours , and i was . besides , i / m sure every movie has flaws of some kind . it just depends what your reasons for watching are . if you did enjoy " The Grudge " and " The Ring " , you may enjoy this movie as much or maybe more . for me , " 11 : 11 : Hell's Gate is a
very funny , hysterically at times	this is a very funny movie . Chris Farley is hysterical as an inept , clumsy ninja of sorts . the laughs come fast and furious in this one , and i have to say i laughed hard a lot . yes , the movie is silly , but in a good way . there is no toilet humour in this movie , which is nice . they're not scraping the bottom of the barrel to get laughs . the humour in this movie is something most people will relate to or at least get . there are also some dramatic moments which are done well . Nicolette Sheridan plays the sort of love interest , and she does a good job in her role . of course , she's also easy on the eyes . if you like movies with a lot of physical comedy and pratfalls , this may be your movie . this movie is not an academy award winner , obviously , but then , it's not that type of movie . for me , this is one of the funniest movies i've seen in quite some time . " Beverly Hills Ninja " gets a from me .
classic horror suspense that stands up well over 20 years later	i thought this was a very good movie . it had action and suspense . it was very intense in some scenes . i also thought Rutger Hauer was very convincing as a psycho , while C . Thomas Howell is good as the hero . Jennifer Jason Leigh is also good in a supporting role . there is also a very inventive and nail biting torture scene that doesn't end the way you might think . another thing i really liked was the fact that many things are implied , but not shown , adding another dimension to the movie . this movie certainly had me on the edge of my seat a lot . to me , " The Hitcher is a classic , and still stands up well today . i'ts low budget , but effective . i give this movie
superb	i really enjoyed this film . i thought it was so well done . it's in traditional animation and it tells the story of a little girl growing up in Iran , through the revolution , and the war with Irag , and her life beyond those events as she grows up to adulthood . the movie is touching , funny and sad , but manages not too be depressing . the animation changes from black and white to bright colours depending on what is happening in any given scene . it's narrated very well , by who i assume is the actual person the movie is about . at least it's told her from point of view . regardless , her voice is a perfect fit for the movie . in short , this is a movie that exceeded my expectation , and was well worth watching . my vote for Persepolis is a
the first Rambo movie	this is the firs movie in the Rambo series , and it's a good one . at least i think it is . it's a about a Vietnam veteran , and Green Beret ( Stallone ) who drifts into a sleepy town , for reasons of his own , minding his own business . but the local law , including the sheriff , ( Brian Dennehy ) , don't want his kind around . Rambo gets pushed to far , and decides to push back , unfortunately for the local law enforcement . if you haven't seen the movie , i won't give anything else away . this movie has a simple , straight forward story , that's fairly high on realism . it's not that far fetched that the events in the movie could happen . i believe Stallone should have at least been nominated for an academy award for his performance as Rambo , and Brian Denehhy should also have been nominated in a supporting category . both were very believable in their roles . also noteworthy is David Caruso in an early role . anyway , for me , First Blood is a
just as disturbing and creepy as the first , and a bit better	for me , this updating of the original 1976 movie of the same name , is just as good . obviously it's been changed somewhat , given the advances in technology since 1979 . however , it is no less scary . i also think that Ryan Reynolds ( George Luts ) and Melissa George ( Kathy Luts ) were at least as good as James Brolin and Margot Kidder , maybe a bit better . the children were all acted well enough , but they didn't really stand out or anything . this time Philip Baker Hall plays the Priest ( played by Rod Steiger in the original ) . i actually liked him in the role a bit more job than Steiger . not to take anything away from Steiger . i had just as many chills running down my spine this time , as in the original . there is a bit of CG , but i don't think it detracts from the overall effectiveness of the movie . i guess i actually liked this version a bit better than the 1979 version , but that's just me . i give The Amityville Horror ( 2005 ) an
dark , disturbing , sick and twisted , and brilliant	wow . what a great film . this movie has everything . it'visual style is amazing . great colours . it has a very dark tone at times , and is very disturbing , and even sick and twisted . it's basically about a serial killer who kidnaps women and tortures them , both psychologically and physically . there's bit of twist on the usual plot of movies in this genre . suffice it to say that the F . B . I discovers one victim recently kidnapped who has a very short time to live . in order to find out where she has been taken , they turn to a women named Catherine Deane ( Jennifer Lopez ) who can enter the mind of the psychopath ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) through a kind of virtual reality and get the information they need . how and why does she do this and will it be in time to save the girl ? you'll have to watch it to find out . as i mentioned in my summary , this movie is very disturbing . the psycho , D'Onofrio is mesmerizing . he oozes evil and cruelty . this is a truly astonishing performance . Vince Vaughn plays one of the F . B . I agents on the case . i've never seen Vaughn in a serious role . who knew he could act ? he's very credible in his performance . Lopez is OK in her role , but to me , she's not in the same league as Vaughn and D'Onofrio ( at least in this movie . she gets to preen and look pretty and pouty . this movie doesn't move at a break-neck pace . for the most part , it is a psychological drama , but it is very compelling . the last 20 minutes or so , the suspense is ratcheted up . there is some definite depth to this film , to be sure , but it also beautiful to look at . this is one of the best films i have seen in some time . for me " The Cell " is a strong .
one of the funniest animated movies ever made	" Shrek is one very funny movie , riotously so at times . it's well written , and very well paced . if you like to laugh , you should really like this movie . the voice actors are also very suited to the characters , and the characters themselves are quite an odd crew . in all the best ways possible . the only drawback i can think of is that the film has many pop culture references as well as references to other movie . if you are not an avid movie watcher and you ' re not into pop culture , some of the jokes may be lost on you . otherwise , prepare yourself for a very sore stomach as the jokes are fast and furious at times . for a change , i'm actually giving this film a higher rating ( ) than it currently has here . " Shrek " is a definite
first in the Bourne series ( )	this is in great movie . it has tons of action , spectacular fight scenes , beautiful locales . it's a very taut , intelligent movie with a very good story . Doug Lyman directs and does a superb job . Matt Damon plays Jason Bourne , and is incredible in the role . the guy can act , that's for sure . Franka Potente plays a pretty big role as well . there is also a great supporting cast . the dramatic moments are done very well and are very compelling . there's lots of suspense and tension , as well as some twists and turns . i liked the characters themselves , as well as each how each actor made their roles their own . as this type of movie ( Spy / intigue ) goes , this is one of the best of the genre . it should keep you glued to your seat for the 119 minute running time . if you like this movie , you might also want to check out Mr . and Mrs . Smith ( and vice versa ) , also directed by Doug Lyman . for me , The Bourne Identity is an .
very , solid , well done sci / fi entry ( one of the best i have seen so far )	this is a terrific , well acted movie . it has plenty of action , a very good storyline and is also realistic . it asks many questions and leaves the viewer to answer most of them . i was drawn into this movie right from the beginning until the very end . there are some great , and unexpected ( for me , anyway ) plot twists . the ending i thought was brilliant . i felt the writers really captured the look and feel of a futuristic earth at war with the enemy . i also liked the fact that you never really know who the enemy is , until the very end . even then , i wasn't sure . if you are looking to be entertained , you should give this movie a try . if you like compelling and thought provoking action and drama , you should also give this movie a try . this movie has some intelligence behind it , which many movies today are sorely lacking . this is one of the best movies of the Sci / Fi genre i have seen to date . i wouldn't call it a masterpiece , but it is a very solid , well done film . My vote for " Imposter " is
equal parts Buffy , Charmed and X-files , . . .	which in this case , is a good thing . this show just keeps getting better and better each episode . if that trend continues , Supernatural should be on the air for years to come . not only are the stories compelling , but the acting is first rate thanks to Jared Padalecki and Jenson Ackles , who play brothers Sam and Dean Winchester . their characters are also well developed and very sympathetic . the writing is also very strong , with some very good dialogue , including some decent humorous moments to lighten the mood , as the show is very dark . if you're a fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer , Charmed , and / or X-files , you should like this show , as it is a mix of those three shows . for me , Supernatural is a
a very well done Dr . Seuss adaptation	after living through the travesty that was the live action adaptation of The Cat in the Hat , i wasn't sure what to expect . this movie is not live action , which is a plus . i was pleasantly surprised by it . it's actually clean wholesome fun the whole family can enjoy . there's a little action and adventure , and a lot of comedy . the movie is also touching . it also has a message , that basically says , we're all significant and we all deserve to be treated equal . it's not heavy handed at all . in fact , i thought it was quite subtle . i also liked the voice cast . Jim Carrey was very good as Horton , Steve Carell was also good as his mouse friend , and Carol Burnett as the Kangaroo who rules the forest was also good . parents , this is a movie you can take your kids to ( and enjoy yourself ) without worrying if there is anything that is not appropriate .
very thrilling and suspenseful disaster flick	i really enjoyed this movie . i found It entertaining , thrilling and exciting . i also found it suspenseful . it was also very touching and sad at times . really felt for the characters . the movie starts off with a bang , almost right away . once that happened i was sure the rest of the movie would be less exciting . i was wrong in this case . the acting was good . the CGI was excellent . the movie didn't make very much money at the box office , which surprises me . i thought it was much better than many movie that made lots of money . but everyone has there opinion . the rating ( ) is kinda low in my view . the only thing i have a little problem with is the ending . it's not a bad ending . it's just that i found it a bit abrupt . i hoped we would have a few scenes showing how the survivors were doing down the road , how they had coped with the tragedy . other than that , i have no complaints about the movie . my rating for " Poseidon " is
very intelligent well written suspense thriller	i'm really surprised by the low rating this movie currently has ( ) . i really liked it . that's saying a lot because i generally don't like Sarah Michelle Gellar . however , i didn't mind her in this movie . this movie kept me at unease throughout , not knowing what might happen next . the movie is filled with an air of dread . i also liked the look of the movie . very dark and atmospheric with muted colours . i found that very effective . the story itself is unique and is not predictable . i thought i had it figured out a few times , only to find out i was wrong . near the end , i came close to figuring it out , but it turned out i wasn't quite right . any movie that can keep you guessing to the end is doing something right , in my mind . there is lots of suspense in this movie , but no gore , which is very refreshing . this is one of the better suspense / thriller movies i have seen in a long time . i had low expectation going into this movie , and those expectation were shattered . if you're looking for a suspense movie with clever writing and good characters , check this movie out . for me , " The Return " is a
a real thrill ride from start to finish	" Joyride " is a very good film . it combines elements of suspense , action and humour skillfully . the story involves Fuller ( Steve Zahn ) and Lewis ( Paul Walker ) Thomas , two brothers on a road trip , who play a cruel prank on a trucker . so , the trucker decides to get revenge on them and terrorize them . meanwhile the brothers have picked up Venna ( Leelee Sobieski ) who has no idea what she is getting herself in for . However she soon finds out as she too becomes terrorized by the trucker and will play an important role in his revenge . basically , what follows is action , suspense , some humour and some scary moments . this movie is a real nail biter . the acting is convincing and the film is well paced . i highly recommend it
terrifically entertaining lite hearted fare from Steven Spielberg	Steven Spielberg directed this light hearted " based on a true story " crime drama . it's basically about one young man who assumes several different identities while forging millions of dollars worth of checks without the FBI being aware of it . along the way , he poses an a doctor , lawyer and a commercial pilot . once the FBI does catch on to him he manges to stay at least one step ahead of them . this movie takes place in the 60's and in this day and age , a Frank Abagnale would not likely have been successful in forging checks and / or eluding the authorities . Leonardo DiCaprio plays the lead role of Frank Abagnale . leading the FBI investigation is Carl Hanratty played by Tom Hanks . it's fun to see the two try to outwit each other , and there are some close calls for Frank , in which he is moments from being discovered . just like in The Terminal , Steven Spielberg shows he is just as skilled with the lighter fare as with the darker subjects he is known for .
exciting and suspenseful	to me , this is a brilliant political / military suspense / thriller . it's starts off pretty quickly and just goes from there . there isn't a lot of time for character development in this movie , but the suspense and intrigue makes up for it . there are some great actors here , including Kevin Costner , Gene Hackman , and Will Patton . Costner and Hackmman are good , but Patton really impressed me here . George Dzunda also stars and his role is small , but i thought he was very good . i also liked Sean young . it's too bad we don't see her in that many movies . many people might say this is a formulaic movie , and that could be true , but there are bad formulaic movies and good formulaic movies . for me , this falls into the very good category . for one thing , it kept my attention the whole time and was very exciting . my vote for No Way Out : a
brilliant	wow . this depiction of the Spanish-American war , and one particular American regiment , took my breath away . there may be some historical liberties taken , but who cares . this TV mini series was outstanding . the battle scenes were something to behold . John Milius directed and co-wrote this movie . he also wrote several episodes of the TV series Rome . the acting her is first rate . Tom Berenger plays Theodore Roosevelt ( before he became President ) who led the regiment . Sam Elliot plays Capt . Bucky O'Neil , Gary Busey plays Gen . Joseph ' Fighting Joe ' Wheeler . also in the cast are Illeana Douglas as Edith Roosevelt , and Chris Noth . there are many others in the cast and all are superb . this movie is about 3 hours long , but it doesn't feel like that at all . this is one of the best war movies i have seen .
another great John Wayne epic	this is a terrific John Wayne western epic . it's the story of Wil Andersen ( John Wayne ) and the 11 school age boys he ends up hiring for a 400 mile cattle drive . it seems the cattle drivers he was going to use , left for green pasture . well , actually the chance for gold . anyway , Andersen and the boys encounter danger , excitement and adventure along the way . once again , i'm struck by the screen presence Wayne has , though i shouldn't be . this is Wayne in his mid sixties and he still commands the screen . i've seen a few of Wayne's westerns and have enjoyed each one so far . this movie is about 135 minutes , but i was glued to the screen the whole time . for me , The Cowboys is easily a
great disaster movie !	i think this disaster movie may be greater than The Poseidon Adventure , which is also a very good movie . the title pretty much speaks for itself . this was certainly a grand undertaking , i think more ambitious than The Poseidon Adventure . i found it actually more exciting and compelling . it's pretty fast paced . it also looks pretty realistic from the effects standpoint , whatever they had at the time . there are a huge number of big stars of the day in this one . but the real star of the movie is the building and the fire . there are plenty of explosions but the last big explosive sequence was particularly impressive and must have been no small feat to pull off . there's only thing i didn't like about this film , and this is just a minor quibble . i didn't think the theme sing ( sung near the beginning of the movie ) really fit into the movie . it just seemed out of place . but that isn't enough to detract from the rest of the movie . for me , The Towering Inferno is a
very entertaining movie with a strong story anchored by great performances from the lead actors	very good movie . it's about motorcycle street racing , but there is more than that going on . the movie is also about relationships , love and the struggles it takes to get to where you want to be . to me , the story was very deep and anchored by some very fine acting performances . the two main characters are played by Laurence Fishburne and Derek Luke . Fishburne is " Smoke " champion Street racer who has never , ( as far as i could tell ) been beat . he holds the title of " King of Kali " and is the leader of " the Black Knights " , one of the racing teams . . Luke Plays Kidd . an upstart young man who wants nothing more than to dethrone " Smoke " . of course it will not be easy , maybe even impossible . who can tell . if you wanna know more , you'll have to watch the movie . the only thing i will say is that there is a revelation which adds a new dimension to things . there are of course some very nice motorcycles and some good racing scenes . there are also some crazy stunts that are amazing . and there are some hot babes . when you put all that together , it makes for quite a show . i would have to disagree with the low rating this movie has . sometimes it boggles my mind and i wonder what people are really looking for in a movie . i know everybody has their own opinions and movie tastes are ( usually ) subjective , but it is still no less mystifying . For me , " Biker Boyz " is a
a good , family underdog film	The Karate Kid , while not as iconic as , say , Rocky , is a classic in its own right . this is another story of the underdog triumphing over adversity . this time it is a teenager named Daniel Larusso ( Ralph Macchio ) who has just moved to a new city . very quickly he gets on the bad side of the town's local karate champ , Johnny Lawrence ( William Zabka ) and is bullied from then on . However , just when he is about to be beaten to a pulp , someone saves him . That someone is Mr . Myagi ( Pat Morita ) , a humble , diminutive man with great fighting skill . But there is more to Mr Myagi than meets the eye . He is also very wise , as Daniel soon learns . Daniel and Mr Myagi soon develop a bond and without Daniel realizing it , Mr . Myagi begins teaching him karate . Daniel learns that karate is not just learning how to fight , but how to be better person . In the end Daniel regains his respect . this movie is a good family movie , with minimal and mild language and some fight scenes , but is not graphic . Martin Kove turns in a wonderfully villainous performance as Kreese , Johnny Lawrence's sensei . his motto is no mercy , when it comes to fighting . Elizabeth Shue plays Ali , who becomes Daniel's girlfriend . this is a true classic which is entertaining but also has a good message . a strong
what is so bad about this movie ?	nothing that should cause it to have such a low rating . ( ) at least not in my mind . i admit , at first , i thought many of the characters were shallow and unlikable , and much weaker than in the first movie . but that changes somewhere along the way . the movie is not as original as the first , but it does a lot of things right . again , it's unpredictable with many suspects each having compelling motives to be the killer . i think it is as creepy and eerie as the original . it may even be a bit more fun at times . i really enjoyed it . so it's not that original , so what ? if a movie is doers enough other things right , that shouldn't really matter . unless it's a blatant rip off of other movie , which it isn't . i think it pays homage to other movies , sure , but that's not the same thing . for me , Uban legends : Final Cut " is an
insanely funny comedy	basically this movie is a combination " Odd " Couple " , ' road trip disaster ' movie . it is insanely hysterical at times as well as very heartwarming and touching . there are a few sober moments in the film , giving you a break from laughing your a off . the acting is good all around . Steve Martin and the late , great John Candy work very well together . the y just seem to the perfect combination . Martin plays is the perfect straight man for Candy's antics , but Martin has his funny moments as well . i can't think of any reason to dislike this movie . there is one scene with Martin at the car rental agency where the f word is used in a angry outburst . other than that , the movie would be suitable for the whole family . " Planes , Trains and Automobiles gets a from me
a very well done episode ( / )	this is one of the few full episodes of The Justice League series i have seen , and i liked it . this is the second episode of the third season of The Justice league . i liked it quite a bit . i thought the story was unique and interesting and pretty straight forward . this particular episode features Batman , Superman and Wonder Woman . the villain is more than match for both Batman and Wonder Woman and a even physical match for Superman . the episode is fast paced , and has great action sequences . it briefly shows a dark side of Superman , and even a lighter side . the voice casting is very good . each of the voices feel appropriate for the characters . for me , Justice League : For the Man Who Everything is an
Richard Gere owns this film	this is a great murder mystery / psychological suspense thriller . this time it's Richard Gere who owns film . just a year earlier , Gere was in a movie called " primal fear , in which he played opposite Edward Norton . Norton owned that film , with his performance , and Gere does the same with this film . the film takes place in China , where an America lawyer ( Gere ) is on business . one morning , his world is turned upside down , as he finds himself accused of murder , with what seems an ironclad case against him . him . he must fight to free his name , all the while battling the corrupt Chinese government and justice system . this movie , like " Primal Fear , will have you on the edge of your seat , right to the end . Gere is brilliant in this here . i highly recommend it . for me , " Red Corner is mesmerizing . as a result , i give it
another classic Arnie film	wow . i loved this classic Arnold Schwarzenegger movie . it's funny , fast paced . has some great lines , including some one liners from Arnie . it's also outrageously funny and over the top . It's based on a short story by Philip K . Dick , and it's one of the better screen adaptations of a Dick story . Paul Verhoeven ( Hollow Man , Starship Troopers , Basic Instinct ) directed it , while Ronald Shusset , who wrote the screen story for Alien , also wrote the screenplay and screen story for this movie . there is some brief nudity , some violence and a bit of language . compared to other Arnie films , though , the amount of coarse language is very low . for me , this movie is a thrill ride . my vote for Total Recall is a
Un-rated director's cut . . . awesome	i really enjoyed this movie from beginning to end . the movie basically tells the story of King Arthur ( Clive Owen ) and his loyal knights on their quest for freedom around the year 400 AD . King Arthur and his knights have been indentured to the Roman Empire for fifteen years , carrying out missions for them . Now , the Romans have agreed that if they fulfill one more mission , they will be free . Ioan Gruffud ( Reed Richards , Fantastic Four ) plays Lancelot . Hugh Dancy ( Black Hawk Down , Basic Instinct 2 ) plays Plays Galahad and Keira Knightleyb ( both Pirates of the Caribbean movies and the upcoming 3rd ) plays Guinevere . Stellan Skarsgard ( Bootstrap Bill , Pirates 2 and 3 ) also stars . the movie is directed by Antoine Fuqua . ( Training Day , Tears of the Sun ) this is one very entertaining film with loads of action . not being much of a history buff , i have no idea how historically accurate to the times it is , but i don't care . it is a very fast paced , fun film . if you are a history buff , this movie might disappoint you , but if not , sit back and enjoy .
similar to " The Hills Have Eyes " except it's good	Wrong Turn is about a group of teenagers stranded in the remote woods and terrorized by a family of cannibalistic psychos . decent acting , a fair amount of suspense and a few gory scenes make up this movie . the movie is well paced , with very few dead spots i . e filler . there are no unintentional funny scenes , which is always a bonus . the music suits the movie well . the characters of course do all the required stupid things . there is not a lot of character development , but the characters are fairly well written and sympathetic . the makeup dept . did a good job . the death scenes are realistic and the psychos look suitably freaky without being over the top . all in all a fun movie with a few " jump out of your seat " scares .
the best horror / thriller i've seen in awhile	i thought this was the best horror / / thriller i've seen in awhile . it's jammed with intensity . Wes Bentley and Rachel Nichols are great as the two m main characters . there are a few pretty bloody and graphic scenes . ( possible minor spoiler ahead ) if you're an animal lover , there's one scene that might really bother you . if i were to stop and think about , i'm sure there are logic gaps , but didn't notice because i was just too wrapped up in the movie . anyway , a parking garage is a perfect setting for a horror movie , if it's done right . not too long ago , i watched a so called horror movie with the same setting , but it didn't work at all . this one does though . i highly recommend it . for me P2 is a
4th entry in the Omen Series near comparable to the original	Whew . i just finished watching " The Omen 4 : The Awakening . i know many people think it is nothing more than an inferior made for cable piece of crap . i disagree . for my money , this movie is nearly on par with the original . there are some terrifying moments that got my heart racing . the acting was very good . Faye Grant is terrific as the mother of the evil child Delia ( Asia Viera ) . Micheal Woods plays the father and husband and is one of the weak spots in this movie . although to be fair , his character is really peripheral , so the blame cannot lie totally with him . However , it is Asia Viera who plays Delia who is the true standout . she can convey evil with just a look . she is very charismatic , and dare i say , has the same natural ability of Harvey Stevens , who plays the role of childhood Damien in the original . the story is quite similar to the original . congressman Gene York and his wife Karen end up adopting a baby girl at an orphanage and of course very little is known of the biological parents . Strange occurrences begin to happen . people die mysterious deaths . Karen begins to suspect there is something horribly wrong about the child . there is an interesting twist to the story which i thought was very inventive . music is used to great effect in this movie , some of it borrowed from the original movie . i also have to say that the production values are very high for this film . of course , the violence of the deaths is toned down abit , but this movie doesn't rely on cheap gore , but on suspense . besides , the original did not rely on violence either . One issue i do have is that the ending was a cop out , and didn't seem plausible . it just didn't fit . changing gears for a second , i have to wonder why Faye Grant is not a huge Hollywood star on the big screen . perhaps ii is by choice . She is a fine actress , as good as or better than many of the so called actresses we have today . anyway . this movie should give you some genuine chills .
" the love of money is the root of all evil "	if you like anthology collections like Tales From the Crypt and Creepshow , you should like this movie . i think it's better than both . basically it's five separate stories dealing with the occult . all five stories though separate , begin with an antique shop which hold many strange items . in each story , someone comes int possession of an item thinking the cam away with bargain . but the get much more than the bargained for . this is one of the better horror anthologies i have seen . each story is genuinely eerie and suspenseful and i got shivers down my spine more than a few times . there is even a bit of humour in in of the stories . the only downside is the readily apparent low budget . still , the stories are effective enough and the acting superb . so the low budget isn't really a a huge problem . for me , From Beyond the grave is an
classic animated children's tale	this is a classic animated children's movie , but it also deals with the issue of dying and death , but in a tasteful way . kids will no doubt love it , with its abundance of songs / musical numbers . it's also funny at times . the movie could also be useful in improving young kids vocabulary and their spelling skills . of course , this would be lost on really young kids , but " older " young kids would benefit . another good thing about this movie is it teaches the value of friendship and working together . there is really nothing offensive at all here , though like i said the movie does deal with the issue of death and it might be a bit too intense for the really young . so parents should use their discretion , just to be on the safe side .
a modern contemporary update on " A Christmas Carol "	this is a delightful , well written movie . it's insanely funny with some good performances Bill Murray plays the " Scrooge " like character and is pitch perfect in the role . there are also some great supporting performances . who knew the classic " a Christmas Carol " could be updated with such hilarious results . this is a feel good movie or at least becomes one and after viewing , it is hard not to be uplifted . i actually liked it better than it's source material . i found it more effective . if you're looking for a profoundly impactful movie , this isn't it . it is a moving film , but also very fun at the same time . there is one very strongly moving moment in the movie , which brought tears to my eyes . in terms of entertainment , this one rates high . for me " Scrooged " is a
brilliant	wow . this movie is way better than i remembered to be . it's simply brilliant . the story is great , the action is terrific , there's lot of excitement and the film really moves along . even though the story was co-written by George Lucas , the dialogue is surprisingly not bad at all . Harrison Ford is Indian Jones , the main character , an archeology professor and archaeologist . i read once that Tom Selleck was up for the role , but could not get out of his contract with Magnum P . I . thank goodness , because i can't imagine anyone besides Ford in the role . Karen Allen co stars as Indy's former flame . there's also a tiny monkey in the movie , which gets a few laughs . finally , there is the great musical score by the great John Williams . this movie is put simply a blast .
rebirth of the sci-fi / horror genre	hmmm . here we have another example of classic , iconic movie , which is improved on by its sequel yes , the sequel is better , but that doesn't take away from the brilliance of this film . Alen is obviously a part of pop culture and well it should be . it revitalized the science fiction / horror genre , actually re-wrote the book . 1977's Star Wars of course redefined science fiction , but Alien was responsible for the re genesis of the horror / sci-fi combo . although released in 1979 , it still stands the test of time , and contains perhaps the most horrific scene in the genre to this day . the suspense factor is still very high to this day . the movie may seem a bit slow at times , but that is to build the suspense . this is not a " b " movie by any stretch of the imagination , though that might have been the intent at one point . the production values look very high even though the budget was tight . the film has a gritty , dirty feel to it . it looks very authentic . the reveal of the creature was well done . instead of giving too much away , you are shown bits at a time . when the creature is revealed it is something that hadn't been seen before , thanks to the genius of H . R . Geiger , who designed the look of the creature . Ridley Scott , of course , directed the film . if you haven't see Alien yet , you should . just be prepared to be patient , and remember it will be worth it in the end . my only complaint about this film is during the end scene when Ripley is about get into the cryo-stasis chamber . in this scene we see Ripley ( Sgourney Weaver ) wearing a pair of panties so undersized it is absurd . i'm not sure if this is supposed to be sexy , but it isn't at all . it is laughably ridiculous and sad . i suppose some teenage boys might be turned on by this , but i doubt it . someone really dropped the ball here . anyway , that is the only complaint . other than that , great movie . though like i said , the sequel improves upon it .
strong acting , but just a bit too long and a little slow at times	this is a pretty terrific movie . the acting is great there's tons of action , and there are even a few touches of lite humour . the movie is also very touching , and heartrending , especially near the beginning . it's hard to watch without becoming emotional since the movie is so intense . it's a true story about hope and faith and battling against the odds . but it doesn't hit you over the head with sentimentality , at least i didn't think so . there were probably some dramatic liberties taken to make the story more appealing for the contemporary audience , but i'm sure the gist of the story is accurate and intact . the only minor negative things i can say about this movie is that i felt it was too long and a bit slow at times . it can also be quite depressing , though that's too be expected due to the subject matter . still you prepare yourself for that . otherwise this is a movie well worth watching . i give We Are Marshall a strong
way better version than the recently released I am Legend ( )	this is the 1st filmed version of Richard Matheson's novel entitled I am legend . the 2nd film version ( which i have yet to see ) is called The Omega men , starring Charlton Heston . the 3rd version is the recently released film starring Will Smith , also entitled I am Legend , which i pretty much hated . as for this 1st version , starring Vincent Price , i thought it was fantastic . there are some great moments of suspense and a real sense of emptiness and desolation . Vincent Price is great here in a non villain role . you can really see the hopelessness and despair he feels . i thought the ending was very good . the only complaint i have about this particular version is it has a few slow moments . otherwise , though , like i said , it's fantastic .
woman dispatches fellow office workers , than just about everyone else in sight in black comedy , horror / suspense hybrid that is very effective	this movie is obviously about someone who kills people in the office . and we learn very quickly who the killer is , so i don't think it's possible to give too much away . Said killer is knebbish office worker Dorine Douglas ( Carol Kane ) . Douglas is a very lonely , insecure waif who lives with her overbearing mother . Douglas decides to begin killing people in her office , after witnessing one of her co-workers accidentally get killed . Douglas realizing she feels something akin to joy at his death . and she covers his death up . i should mention that most of her fellow workers treat her with disdain , or worse , even to the point of cruelty and hurtful remarks . so she feel justification for her feelings . soon , she dispatches another co-worker and then another . thing is , once she starts , she just keeps going and going and going . ( like the Energizer Bunny ) as the bodies mount up , Douglas also starts killing co-workers who are actually not that mean to her . and then , just about anyone she comes in contact with , she kills ( i mean anyone ) . I have to say that Cane does a very good job in the role . her character becomes quite gleeful of her work , treating it something akin to getting an A plus on a report card . ( you can tell Cane had a lot of fun with this role ) . she is a true sociopath , to be sure . and she engages in some very amusing rituals which i won't go into here . let's just say , you have to see it to believe it . so , what genre does this movie fall into ? well , horror , to be sure and suspense , and most prevalent , black comedy , very black . there are also a lot of intentional campy moments . some of the situations are so absurd and over the top , you have to laugh . this movie works on all levels and it proves you don't need a gi-normous ( gigantic / enormous ) budget to make a very effective movie . truly a unique piece of art .
Global warming , ice age , massive storms	global warming has finally caught up with us and in very sudden fashion causing massive storms including tornadoes and hurricanes , floods and tidal waves all at once , and a new global ice age in some places . i know , it sounds weird , global warming , ice age , but they sort of explain it in the movie . i am almost certain the science in the movie is flawed , but so what . there are some great special effects , great action and some suspense . put it all together , an you have on entertaining movie . Dennis Quaid plays climatologist Jack Hall , who must try and prevent the whole world from succumbing to the effects of global warming , and rescue his son , Sam ( Jake Gyllenall ) who , while on a school field trip becomes trapped in New York , which has become frozen solid in minutes . Emmy Rossum ( Mystic River ) plays Laura Chapman , one of Sam's classmates . Sela Ward plays Dr . Lucy Hall , Jack's wife . Ian Holm ( The Lord of the Rings , the fellowship of the ring , LOTR-the return of the King , Bilbo ) also stars . this movie has some breath taking moments to say the least . it is visually impressive . if you're looking for a fun ride , this is your movie .
riotously enjoyable animated romp	for me , this is a ridiculously funny animated adventure . i had a riot while watching . there's some great funny dialogue , some hysterical physical comedy . there is nothing subtle about this movie . they really hit you over the head with the comedy . but in this case , that's a good thing . but beyond comedy , there's also some adventure . the story is also good . the movie is well paced , and has a terrific mix of characters , each with their own quirky traits , who all seem to fit well together . the voice work is very good here . every character's voice fits perfectly . the film is rated G , which is appropriate , although here is some rude humour involved . as far as animated comedy / adventures , this is one of the best .
thrilling and suspenseful	this is an outstanding movie , in my mind . Diane Lane plays a cyber-crimes investigator for the FBI , and Colin Hanks plays one of her co workers . Lane does a fantastic job ( which is not surprising given her talent ) and Hanks does pretty well also . the movie reminded me vaguely of Feardotcom , only this movie is way better . the suspense and tension are higher , the plot is is way better , and the acting is much better . i found the thrill level here pretty high throughout . Gregory Hoblit ( Frequency , Primal Fear , Fallen ) directed this movie . generally i find most of his movies pretty well made , and this was no exception . for me , this is one of the better suspense thrillers to come around in awhile . my vote for Untraceable is a
Hoffman is Brilliant and Cruise is also very good	i first saw this movie in high school , and recall feeling indifferent towards it . flash forward several years , and what a difference . this time around , i really liked it . for one , i paid more attention to it . i also liked it because Dustin Hoffman's portrayal of an autistic person was bang on . the reason i say this is because i work with an autistic individual . Hoffman must have done a lot of research for the role . either that , or he's a complete and utter genius . Tom Cruise is also good as the man who find out he has an autistic brother . Cruise's character ( Charlie Babbit ) goes from being an ego-centric materialistic and shallow human being , to someone who actually has compassion and doesn't just think of himself . Cruise makes the transformation very credible . i bought every minute of it . the story is fairly original , as far as i know , even today . there are also bits of lite humour sprinkled throughout , which don't detract from the quality of the film at all . for me , rain man is an
a bitter man find himself relieving the same day over and over again until he gets it right	this movie never loses it's charm and effect , even after repeated viewing . it's the story of a bitter , lonely arrogant , empty man ( Bill Murray ) who find himself reliving the same day ( Groundhog Day ) over and over again . each time he goes through he begins a slow transformation until he learns what life really means . he becomes a better man for the experience . Andie MacDowell plays the love interest and Chris Elliott put in a good supporting performance . also has this movie is at it's heart a life lesson movie , a morality fable , if you will . many of these types of movie are maudlin and inspirational ad naseum . not this one . it manages to avoid going down that route . i think this is due to the strong writing and direction . Danny Rubin wrote the story , and he and Harold Ramis co wrote the screen play . Ramis also directed the film . what's also good about this film are it's light comedic touches and even some flat out hilarious moments
ground breaking CGI ! ( )	i finally saw this movie in IMAX , and it was worth that wait . i enjoyed it for the most part . there are a few scenes i felt they didn't need , but overall , it's a pretty good movie . the story and the acting are not exactly profound or groundbreaking . but it is entertaining . however in my mind , The CGI in this movie is groundbreaking . the action scenes are some of the best i have seen . they are quite electrifying . i also really liked the look of the Transformers themselves . the special effects are seamless , in my opinion . i liked the humour in the film , especially involving The Transformers themselves . they also each had different personalities and quirks , so they weren't just two dimensional characters . in addition , it thought the voices for each of the Transformers fit the characters very well . the only negative i can think of is that the acting is a bit suspect , at times , but i won't get any more specific than that . otherwise , especially because of the outstanding CGI effects , it is still well worth watching . for me , Transformers is a
great movie , poor casting choice in lead role	Kingdom of Heaven is another Ridley Scott epic , set during the time of the Crusades in the 12th century , a time of war between the Christians and the Muslims . Orlando Bloom plays Balian , a humble blacksmith who ends up traveling to Jeruselum and ( inadvertently ) becomes defender of the city and its people . I really enjoyed this film . Scott shows again why he is so sought after as a director . the film contains epic battle scenes , is beautifully photographed and very well paced . there only a few minor problems with the film . one is the fact that a humble blacksmith with little if any training would become skilled warrior in the very limited time shown in the film . also the fact that this same man would then become leader of a nation . that seems a bit beyond the realm of plausibility . and the casting of Orlando bloom is really weak . He is not someone who would inspire confidence , mainly because he is too young and lacks the maturity for the role . the rest of the film is well done , very entertaining . again , it may not be historically accurate , but so what . you want historical accuracy , watch the History channel . you want an entertaining piece of cinema , watch this movie . normally a movie this well made would rate a perfect 10 , but due to the poor casting of Orlando Bloom , Kingdom of Heaven gets a
immensely entertaining	this is a great movie in the genre of suspense / thriller genre . it doesn't rely on blood and gore to be successful . rather , it relies on the build up of tension and suspense and succeeds very well in that aspect . this is a real pulse racer throughout much of it's short running time ( 85 minutes ) the film doesn't suffer from being as short as it is . it is very fast paced . there are a Few Blood curdling moments in this one . the two main characters are not overly developed , but we are given as much information as we need . the sense of danger and terror that the two main characters feel is really well articulated . you fell what they feel . at least , i did . one thing's for sure , a after watching this movie , i will think long and hard before checking into a motel in the middle of nowhere . Luke Wilson and Kate Beckinsale are the two leads and are very convincing . Wilson really impressed me in a serious role . what the two are up against is frightening , to say the least . the supporting performances are also great . the movie is not necessarily original . it does borrow from other movies in the suspense / thriller genre and others . but it works so well with the material that that doesn't matter . i really enjoyed this movie and highly recommend it .
heart pounding action	i found this to be a very exciting , action packed movie , with a few good twists . Denzel Washington is great here as a rookie cop . John Lithgow is also very good here . Ice-T has a smaller role , but is also very good . look for Lindsay Wagner ( the original Bionic Woman ) in a supporting role . once the movie gets going it ( and it doesn't take long ) it keeps going . it's a real nerve shredder . i was glued from the get go . there's a lot more action than character development in this one , but you are given enough information on the characters to have some investment in them . if this movie doesn't get your blood pumping , i'd be very surprised . but then again , it's all a matter of opinion and taste . for me , though , i enjoyed every second of it .
fascinating look inside the world of bodybuilding ( specifically the 1975 Mr . Universe and Mr . Olympia competitions )	this a fascinating look behind the scenes of bodybuilders preparing for the 1975 Mr . Olympia and M . r Universe competitions . a lot of the focus is on Arnold Schwarzenegger and his chief rival Lou Ferigno as Arnold goes for his sixth Mr . Olympia title . the documentary shows the lengths the contenders are willing to go to win the contest , and how intelligent these guys are . the impact of this film on the bodybuilding and fitness world is immense , and its impact is still felt today . as i was watching the documentary , it struck me how vain you would have to be to enter these contests . back then there wasn't a lot of money involved . there was only glory . there was a lot of work involved just to be in shape to compete , so the discipline must have been off the charts . anyway , not only did i enjoy this film , i also found it informative and enlightening . for me , Pumping Iron is a
even better than the original ( despite the casting blunder of Grace Jones ) shudder	this sequel to " Conan The Barbarian " is a pretty decent movie , in my mind . it has as much action as the first one , but the story is better in my opinion . it is a bit hard to follow . at least i thought it was . the tone of the movie seems lighter than the first , and there is more humour . i also liked the fact the " Conan " was shown as being human , and not invincible . i thought his main adversary was a great choice for the strength of Conan and he could not beat it by brawn alone . there are also some great characters for Conan's traveling companions , who actually were very helpful to Conan . the one thing i did not like is the inclusion of Grace Jones . to me , the woman is much too scary to be on any screen or even seen by the public . i thought she added nothing to the movie and her role was pointless . she also scares the sht out of me . however , i thought the movie was good enough to overcome that huge casting blunder . in fact , in spite of that fact , in my opinion " Conan The Destroyer " manages to be a better movie than the first Conan movie . this is just my opinion of course . For me , " Conan The Destroyer " is an
outstanding short film	this short film is actually a mock trailer for a film that doesn't actually exist . after watching Grayson , i wished the movie did exist . hopefully , it will get made some day . anyway , the story is about Dick Grayson ( the original Robin ) and his quest for vengeance after the death of his friend BruceWayne / Batman . i liked the story , and the acting is first rate here , as is the writing . i liked the characterization of each person involved . the film is actually very exciting . in fact , when it was over , i wanted more . there are many famous DC characters that make cameo appearances , which was a nice touch . the effects were good , considering the budget . it's obvious , that all involved in the making of this film put their hearts into it , and it shows . for me , Grayson is a
better than the first , and that's saying a lot	if you liked saw , you will really like saw 2 . it improves upon the original , surprisingly . there were more characters and the setting has changed slightly . whereas in the original , most of the story takes place in one room , there are now more rooms . the traps are more inventive than the original , there is more action and a group dynamic going on , setting the stage for a sort of mob mentality among some of the characters . this time we have a new group of characters . in this bunch there are some truly evil individuals , lumped in with some that are not . this is , good as it allows you to play some characters off each other . you still have your sympathetic characters to root for , and you also have the others that you can hope meet a grisly end . of course , the original villain is back and one other character from the original also returns . there is a higher budget this time around , hence a more polished look to the film , which works here . there is a twist ending , which was a bit of a surprise , setting up the soon to be released saw 3 nicely . and there is also a healthy dose of gore . what else can i say ? saw 2 is highly recommended . if you haven't seen it , what are you waiting for ?
it's all about family	i loved this movie . it ' s mostly live action , except tor the chipmunks . they are CG animated . if you're feeling down , this movie should pick up your spirits . i found it hysterically funny at times . i think adults will love it as much as kids . it's a movie appropriate for the whole family , in my mind . there's nothing offensive , that i could see . there also a message in the movie , though it's very subtle . or maybe it's not that subtle . i guess it depends on the person . really , family and doing the right thing are the most important things . at least that's what came across for me . beyond that , though , i found the movie a riot , and it's really sweet and touching . i highly recommend it .
a powerful movie about murder , cover up and conspiracy with a military backdrop	this is a movie of murder , mystery and intrigue set against the back drop of a military base . i found this movie very riveting and engaging , although very disturbing . it's quite graphic in it's depiction of violence . i liked the fact that you never really know who the bad guys are until the end . there are a lot of twists and turns , with clues ( and anti clues ) along the way . naturally , having a military setting , there is of course a cover up afoot by certain individuals who want the truth to remain untold . the movie also has holds some surprising and explosive revelations . John Travolta stars in this one , along with Madeline Stowe , Timothy Hutton and James Cromwell . i'm not really a Travolta fan , but he's OK in this movie as the lead investigator assigned to the case . Stowe plays his partner of sorts , and handles her role well . Cromwell is the top ranking General whose daughter is the focal point of the mystery . Hutton plays a high ranking Colonel whose allegiance hard to pin down . i really got into this movie and stayed riveted to the end . The General's Daughter gets a from me .
third in the Bourne trilogy the best of the series so far	i'm gonna go out on a limb here , and say that this third Film in the Bourne franchise is at least as good as the last Bond Film , Casino Royale it may even be better than some of the older Sean Connery Bonds . this movie left me breathless . there's no time to get bored while watching this film . the action scenes are intense and frenetic . the fight scenes are even better than in the Bourne identity and Bourne Supremacy , and that's saying a lot . this is the fist Bourne movie i have seen on the big screen , and it's worth every penny . if you get a chance to see to go see it in the theatre , you should do so . anyway , Matt Damon returns as Jason Bourne , and is even more convincing here than in the previous two , which is also saying a lot . again we also have a strong supporting cast . there isn't as much drama in this one , in fact very little . this movie does strain believability a bit more than the two previous film , but it is escapist entertainment . i think this movie is the best so far of the Bourne Trilogy , which , again , is saying a lot . for me , The Bourne Ultimatum is a .
a fun , thrilling slasher flick	i really enjoyed See No Evil . it has some disgusting moments , and it also has some heart pumping moments . it has one really inventive kill , and a great villain played by Kane . Kane is not your garden variety psychopath . for one thing , he is massive and very imposing . Kane has very good screen presence and he makes a terrific villain . and this villain has something many villains in todays movies of this genre lack . he has a personality . and though his actions are sick and twisted , the movie does reveal his motivation for doing what he does , though admittedly not until the latter stages of the movie . finally , a villain who is not just another mindless killing machine . you actually feel some sympathy for him . i also really liked the setting . and there is one good twist in the movie that i figured out just before it is revealed , but up until that point i had no idea . i thoroughly enjoyed this movie . out of 10
creative premise , compelling storyline , and strong , likable characters	i'm amazed at the low rating for this movie ( ) i though this was a great movie . it intelligently written , compelling and most of all unpredictable . but it also has strong , likable characters . sure , it borrows from other movies . but the actual general premise is unique , as far as i know . this movie kept me guessing right to the very end . . that to me , says it's well written . you have a lot of people to choose from who could be the killer , and they all have their reasons . is is scary ? no , but it is creepy and eerie and it does keep you interested . i really felt for some of the characters who were killed , which says something . i'n sure there are plot holes and inconsistencies , just like most movies . however , they are not as obvious in this movie . you really have to look for them . if a movie has blatant flaws that you can see miles away , that's different . the point is , in my mind , this is a great movie . i give " Urban Legends " a
wacky little independent movie	this little movie is another example that you don't need a big budget with big special effects . all you need is a compelling story . and some humour , courtesy of some wacky characters and situations , doesn't hurt . this movie has all of that . it is hysterically funny at times , and always entertaining . this is a UK / France / USA production , although how equal each countries participation is , could be up for debate . i say this because the Brits are very good at making this type of movie work , without being depressing understand that to be funny , a movie actually needs comedy . most small American made films are usually depressing ( at least the one i've had the misfortune of sitting through ) maybe that's a requirement . As for the French , i haven't seen to many of their films , if any . the point is , this is a very good film in all aspects . sometimes i laughed so hard , i cried . and yes , the title is actually relevant to the movie , though i won't say how . check this little gem out . you won't be disappointed .
a thought provoking and enriching experience	i loved this movie . it's touching , funny and ironic . the title character played by Jack Nicholson is so likable , you can't help but root for him . and Nicholson really tones down his bigger than life " Jack " persona . there's no over the top scenery chewing here . his performance is very subtle and understated , and doesn't overshadow the supporting cast . the basic gist of the story is that Warren Schmidt has just retired , and ends up on a cross country journey that changes his life . along the way he discovers himself and meets some interesting characters , which provide some comic relief . there is strong supporting cast here , including Kathy Bates ( Misery ) Hope Davis , Dermot Mulroney and Howard Hesseman . not to sound maudlin , but this was a very and thought provoking and enriching experience . for me , About Schmidt is a well deserved
well written and well acted	this is more than just a movie about the killing of Jesse James . the story is about the event leading up to the title and the aftermath . it's a well done movie with great performances from Brad Pitt as James , Sam Rockwell as Charlie Ford , and Casey Affleck as Robert Ford . the supporting performances are also very good . this is not an action film , but a deliberately paced character study . the film is well written and has some very good dialogue . it also has a voice over narration , which i thought worked well with this movie . it does tend a bit toward slowness , but only for brief moments and only occasionally , and is never boring . the story and characters are quite compelling . i found myself quite engrossed in the story and the characters . for me , The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford is a
AAA movie . Wow ! ! !	for a straight to video movie , this one is really pretty good . it is darker in tone than the first one ( we won't mention the unfortunate second one ) and their is more of a sense of jeopardy and doom . it takes the intensity of the first one and brings it to a whole new level . we get a good reveal of the sinister alien in this one , and it really looks well done . this is a very smartly written film , with lots of action and some pretty cool kills . the story is better than the first " Species " with some added dimensions . the acting isn't really that great , but that's not really the main focus here . that belongs to the alien creature , played by Sunny Mabrey . if you're a guy , you better have a bucket with you , because you'll drool all over the place when you see this chick . as for the movie itself , i think it's better than the original . for me , " Species 3 " is a
a boxing movie that's about much more than boxing	this is a really good movie about boxer Rocky Marciano . it chronicles his rise to greatness in the sport . but more than that , it chronicles his and his family's struggle to overcome adversity and prejudice . the film shows Marciano as a ( at most times ) humble man who longs to escape the dead end path he is on , with a bleak future and a menial job in which he is fated to merely eke out an existence . the movie is low key and doesn't not put boxing on a pedestal , but rather shows that that their are people behind those gloves and bruises . it also shows the despicable people behind the scenes ( slimy managers and promoters , etc ) and the udder depths they will stoop to in order to keep their fighters under their thumbs . Jon Favreau puts in a terrific performance as the title character , while both Judd Hirsch and Tony Lo Bianca both portray ( very convincingly ) a scumbag manager and an even scummier promoter , respectively George C . Scott plays Marciano's father , whose fate in life Marciano hopes to escape from . this is obviously not a documentary , so there is probably some liberty taken by the filmmakers . but i'm sure a lot of the movie was accurate , especially about the scumbags behind the scenes . in fact , we have one high profile one in the real life boxing world , though haven't heard too much from him lately . we all know who he is and that he's nothing but a waste of skin . anyway , i feel this is a movie that most people , even non boxing fans will enjoy and relate to . for me " Rocky Marciano " is a
Dry , witty sarcastic ( all in a good way ) TVseries revolving around 2 snooty psychiatrist brothers in Seattle	Frasier is about 2 psychiatrist brothers , Frasier Crane ( Kelsey Grammar ) and Niles Crane ( David Hyde Pierce ) . but these 2 are not your average psychiatrists . they are upper crust snobs , especially Niles . the show is a spin off of cheers . Frasier has moved from Boston to Seattle and is the host of this own very popular radio program However , many times it is his producer Roz Doyle ( Perri Gilpin ) who dispenses more realistic down to earth advice than Frasier would . She also gets Frasier out of a lot of jams . there are few eccentrics at the radio station , each with their own quirks and oddities . on the home front Frasier livers with his dad , Marty Crane ( John Mahoney ) who has just recently moved in for reasons i won't disclose . of course , things do not always run smoothly between the 2 . the show uses dry , witty sarcasm as humour ( in an upper crust sort of way ) which most people will get . there are also many misunderstandings , leading to some very amusing situations . there is one running gag to do with Niles , which is also quite amusing . Frasier is not the " howling with laughter " kind of show , though it does have those moments . it is more subtle and high brow than many comedies . it is however , immensely entertaining . unfortunately though most of the episodes worked , on occasion there were some that fell flat throughout its 11 year run . as a result , i would have to give Frasier a rather than 10 .
Jennifer Carpenter ( as Emily ) is astonishing	this movie definitely has some blood curdling moments . the story is basically this : a catholic priest is on trial for causing the death of a young girl eh performed an exorcism on , claiming she was possessed . however , the authorities believe he caused her death . through flashbacks , we see the events leading up to that point , including the possession of Emily Rose ( Jeniffer Carpenter ) . Laura Linney is the Lawyer who takes on the case . Tom Wilkinson is the priest . and Campbell Scott is the prosecuting attorney . but there's more than this to the story . the movie has some similarities to An American Haunting , which came out the same year . this movie has a better , more developed story though , and the acting is better . Jeniffer Carpenter in particular , is astonishing . for me , The Excorism of Emily Rose is a
well done Gothic horror	i really enjoyed this movie . i found it very stylish and atmospheric . i liked the dull , dreary look of the film . it was very appropriate in this case . i also liked the setting : Edinburg , Scotland in 1820 . this movie was adapted from an original Screenplay by the poet Dylan Thomas . the script was written by Ronald Harwood . to me , this movie felt like something that Edgar Allen Poe would have written . i mean that in a good way . the general premise of the movie is as follows : Doctor Thomas Rock ( Timothy Dalton ) is an anatomy instructor at a local school . he is supplied his cadavers , or dead bodies , via the deaths of convicts who have been executed . however , two petty criminal lowlifes , named Timothy Broom ( Stephen Rea ) and Robert Fallon ( Johnathon Pryce ) find out they can profit by bringing bodies to the Doctor themselves and getting paid . from there , things begin to take a disturbingly chilling turn , but i won't reveal more . anyway , for me , this a genuine old fashioned ghost story that really works . there's no gore to speak of , but plenty of tension and suspense and some chills . if this seems like your bag , you might want to give " The Doctor and the Devils " a try . for me
awesome ! ! !	for my money , this eight movie in the Star Trek franchise is the best of the eight . i just think it's got a great story , with a good subplot . the acting is good . the action sequences are really good . i also really like the look of the Enterprise in this movie . it so sleek and beautiful . also , the villain is quite strong , a worthy adversary for the Enterprise and her crew . there's also some humour here , which is always nice and some character growth and development . this is the first of The Next Generation movies and it is awesome . actually this movie blew me away with how good it is . there are also a boat load of extras on this second disc which make this edition more than the worth the purchase price , in my mind . easily
lots of action in this 1	wow . lots of action , some brutal violence , even some black comedy thrown into the mix . oh , yeah , also some steamy love scenes and some double crosses . that pretty much describes " The Getaway " . for me , all this is a good thing . at least , it works in this movie . there's a great cast , who all put in great performances . Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger play the two lead characters , with great supporting work from Micheal Madsen , James Woods , Jeniffer Tilly and Richard Farnsworth . if you like a action packed movie and don't mind brutal violence and nudity or foul language ( there's a lot of that in here ) you should enjoy this 1 . as an added bonus , there are a couple of twists and , like i mentioned earlier , some black humour . myself , i really had a good time with this movie . i give " The Getaway "
well acted , well directed , well written suspense thriller	Sidney Pollack's The interpreter is a well made film . i wasn't expecting much , so this was a pleasant surprise . the movie stars Nicole Kidman as U . N interpreter who overhears a murder plot and Sean Penn Plays a secret service agent assigned to protect her . Normally i don't like Nicole Kidman , however she showed she has some real range in this picture . Sean Penn is terrific in understated performance . the film is well directed , with plenty of suspense , intense action sequences and some good plot twists . the dramatic moments are also handled well by Pollack . Pollack has directed several films in his career , such as Tootsie , out of Africa and the Firm , as well as Random Hearts and Sabrina . Thespeople responsible for the writing must also be given credit as well foe a superb effort . Overall , a very well done effective suspense thriller .
very strong animated feature from Marvel ( )	this is one of the latest Marvel animated features , and i gotta say , i liked it . this one involves the children of the Original Avengers , most of which do not appear in the story . i won't say why . you'll have to watch to find out . anyway , i found the premise of the future an interesting concept . but there is more to the story than just the children . i mentioned earlier that mos of the original Avengers do not appear , but one or two do show up to lend a hand . i liked the fact that in this feature , the threat to humanity is very grave , with a very strong and powerful villain . there's some great character interaction here , as well , including some conflict among the heroes . and for action fans , there are some great action scenes , including some great hand to had combat fighting . beyond that , i really like the colour scheme of the movie . , and i thought the voice castling was very good , especially , the voice of the villain . it was truly an inspired choice . my vote for The Next Avengers :
terrific independent movie	to me , this movie proves that you don't need a huge budget and big special effects to be successful . this is an independent Canadian movie . i found it to be funny , entertaining and dramatic . i liked the hockey scenes , and the scenes in the locker room . the end result may or may not be realistic , but so what . the movie was charming and well written . the acting was very good from all involved , as far as a i could tell . many of the actors are probably people that many of us haven't seen too much of if at all , but that does not take away from their performances at all . i thought these performers were as good as many so called " great " Hollywood actors . this is what i would consider a great family movie , with maybe a few scenes of minor language , and nothing offensive , but parents should always use their discretion . for me " Anyone's Game " ( AKA " Chicks With Sticks " ) is a
vastly entertaining and downright funny at times	i honestly don't understand the low rating this movie has on this site . I'll admit it's no masterpiece , but it is vastly entertaining . to me , Leslie Nielson is perfectly cast as Mr . Magoo . if you don't know the character of Mr . Magoo , he was originally a cartoon character who is absurdly near sighted , leading him into all kinds of trouble , yet he is generally oblivious to most of what's going on . oh yeah , he is also very wealthy . the live action movie portrays the character pretty much exactly the same . he always seems to come out of any potential trouble with virtually no signs of any problem . in the movie , Magoo , helps solve a crime and help put the baddies in jail , with a lot of help , from both his nephew and his dog . yes , i said dog . this dog is is very intelligent and saves Magoo from many mishaps , both minor and major . Kelly Lynch portrays one of the criminals and she does a very fine job in her role . not to mention she is hot , hot , hot . anyway , like i said earlier , the movie is certainly very amusing , and contains an absolutely hysterical sequence with Magoo in the kitchen . there's also some great action and some great martial arts moves , courtesy of Lynch's character . for the most part , this is a great family movie , with maybe a bit of mild language . for me , the live action version of Mr . Magoo is an , based simply on how entertaining it is .
great family movie from Disney	this a great Disney flick . it is the story of an aging high school baseball coach ( Dennis Quaid ) , who was once on his way to the big leagues as a pitcher , but suffered a career ending injury . but through series of events , Jimmy Morris ( Quaid ) gets a try out with a major league team and even makes the roster . this is a great family film . it is inspirational , but doesn't pour it on too thick . it's fun and entertaining . adults will enjoy this movie as well as kids . it is based upon a true story , though i'm sure the filmmakers took some liberties in telling the story . Quaid is sensational as the title character , very convincing . if you're looking for a film the whole family can enjoy , look no further .
romance , mystery , suspense all add up to a very good movie	i liked this movie a lot . i thought the acting was very good . Jessica Biel really impressed me in her role . she really brought some depth to her character , and proved that she definitely has talent . she held her own against some real heavyweights in the film . i also liked the setting of Vienna sometime in the 19th century , i believe . i think Vienna is really appropriate , because , to me it seems like it would be a romantic city . the movie has a romantic air to it , but it is also a mystery / suspense film . i thought the story was also very good , and well told . the characters had some dimension to them , at least i think they did . i liked the ending , even though it was anti-climatic . it fit with the rest of the movie . by that i mean it all makes sense at the end , but you have to think about it a bit . if you enjoy movies that are challenging , and if you are a bit of a romantic , ( even if you're not ) you will probably like " The Illusionist " . for me , this movie is about
a laugh riot in all the right ways	here i sit , shaking my head in bewilderment . why , you say ? well , i'm glad you asked . here it is - - the low rating ( ) for this movie . i thought this movie was an absolute riot . funny doesn't begin to describe this film . the movie is very well written . the dialogue is top notch ( though many people will disagree with me on that point ) and there are some great one liners . i think the genius of the film is that it takes what some people may think is bad dialogue and makes it good . this is a deliberately funny movie . it's not one of those " so bad it's good " movies . of course it isn't just funny . it's also full of action . now , even though this movie has a low rating , and most critics panned it , many filmmakers must have found some merit in it . how else do you explain that fact that this movie is often referenced in later movies ? i'm pretty sure this is what you would call a cult classic . you won't find any deep profound meaning here , but it's a truly entertaining romp . for me , " Hudson Hawk " is a
classic underdog story	Rocky is by now considered a classic movie , and well it should be . if you like underdog stories , you will love this movie . i won'y go to much into the plot , except to say this is a story of an unknown boxer who hits the big time when he gets the chance the fight the current world champion . Sylvester Stallone wrote the script and starred as rocky . the underdog theme in the movie mirror Stallone's life somewhat , as he was down and out prior to the film . Stallone shot to stardom after Rocky , becoming a household name . anyway , as for the movie itself , the story is well developed and the characters are well written . the dramatic moments are well done as are the action scenes . the movie is very inspiring , but stops short of being maudlin . you really care about Rocky and want him to succeed . more than a movie , Rocky has become a part of pop culture and will likely remain so for a long time to come . a strong
loaded with suspense and tension	i liked this movie . it has some edge of your seat moments , and great acting . while the acting is credible , i'm not sure how realistic the actions of some of the characters are . there is a twist which i figured out right away , the first time i watched it . i think that's because it just seemed so obvious . nevertheless , the movie fun is fun , and thrilling , and action packed right to the end . Mel Gibson puts in a strong performance as does Gary Sinise . Rene Russo is also good , but has a small role . i also liked Delroy Lindo . i thought he was good in his role . interestingly , the Laser disc version of the film is 139 minutes , according to this site , while this version is only 121 minutes . i'm curious about the missing 17 minutes . anyway , for me , Ransom is an
stunning performance by Edward Norton	this is one of the best murder mystery , psychological suspense films i have ever seen . this thing will keep you riveted and guessing right down to the end . this movie belongs to Edward Norton , who plays an alter boy accused of murdering a priest . this is an early film with Norton , in fact his first feature ( big screen ) film . his talent is undeniable even back then ( 1996 ) . there a lot of layers to this movie and a lot going on . there are also a lot of plot twists and some red herrings ( false clues ) to help lead you to the wrong conclusions . Richard Gere is also in the film and he does good in his role , as does Laura Linney in her role . but like i said , this is an Edward Norton film . the success of the movie hinges on his performance . he delivers in a big way , so the film succeeds . i don't think you can go wrong with this film . i urge you to check it out . for me " Primal Fear " is a
round 2 ( )	Home Alone 2 has pretty much the same general plot as the first one . a few of the particulars have changed , including the location . this time Kevin is Lost in New York , while his family is somewhere else . the 2 bumbling Robbers , Marv ( Daniel Stern ) and Harry ( Joe Pesci ) return and of course meet up with Kevin and slapstick ensues . this movie is a bit longer , and i felt it took a while to get going , but once it does , it's very funny . the booby traps Kevin designs are just as elaborate and cause a lot of pain and grief for Harry and Marv , and a lot of hilarity for the audience . this movie is a bit more touching and heartwarming than the first one , and at least as funny . the only downside for me is the slow beginning . otherwise , it pretty much lives up to the first one . for me , Home Alone 2 Is an
check out the novel by Alex Garland	this is one intense movie going experience . i don't wanna give too much away , but it has echoes of Lord of the Flies . if i'm not mistaken it's also similar to King Rat . it's directed by Danny Boyle ( Train Spotting , 28 days Later ) and Stars Leonardo DiCaprio , Tilda Swinton and Robert Carlyle . anyway , there's some great acting here . Tilda Swinton in particular impressed me . the dialogue is also well written . really the whole movie is well written . plus there is a high element of suspense and danger . it's based on a novel by Alex Garland , but i haven't read the novel , so i can't compare . i may just try to find the novel , so i can compare . as a movie though it's quite well done . for me , The Beach is an
Terrific performances from Jodi Foster and Terrence Howard	this movie was much better than i had hoped or expected it to be . it basically turns the vigilante genre on its head , and has a female character as the vigilante . like any vigilante movie , it certainly poses tough questions . it contains some terrific performances in it's two lead characters , Jodi Foster as the vigilante , and Terrance Howard as the cop on her trail . both are outstanding and very credible in their respective roles . Foster really makes you sympathetic to her character and rooting for her , even though you probably shouldn't . Howard's character is also sympathetic , because he has mixed feelings , but has to follow the law . he comes off very convincingly as someone who is conflicted . the movie is well paced and appropriately dark . even before the end of the movie , i thought it was well done , but the ending caught me totally off guard . it elevated the movie a notch . for me , The Brave One is a
insanely funny at times	this is one terrific little movie . it's a romantic comedy starring Ben stiller and Jeniffer Aniston . in this case , though , the emphasis is more on comedy than romance . there are some hysterical sequences in this movie , some courtesy of Stiller and Aniston , bit some also due to the supporting cast . there are also a couple of running gags in the movie , which never get old . as for the supporting cast , Philip Seymour Hoffman is a riot in many of his scenes . Alec Baldwin and Bryan Brown also provide some laughs . however , it is Hank Azaria , along with another character , who steal the show . Azaria is pee your pants funny . i won't reveal the identity of the other character here . Aniston and Stiller have great general and comedic chemistry and great comedic timing here . Debra Messing is also good , but i wish her role had been more substantial . anyway , if you want a movie that will make you forget about the world for about 90 minutes , this might be your movie . give it a shot . for me , Along Came Polly is an
I have now seen 2 first rate Polanski films	Well , i never thought i'd say this , but , i have now seen 2 very good Roman Polanski movies . ( the other being the brilliant " The Ninth Gate " ) anyway , Chinatown is a simple story of private eye Jake Gittes , who stumbles into a murder mystery . Jack Nicholson plays Gittes , in a brilliantly understated performance . Nicholson makes Gittes into a very likable character . The film has a very unique and impressive visual style . Polanski's direction is very tight and economical . everything fits and each scene has relevance to the film . This is not an action movie , but more of character study , and is also very dialogue driven . What action there is , is low key and passive . this is no criticism of the movie , at all . it is so well written that it cannot fail to hold your interest , and as director , Polanski Tties everything up neatly . Faye Dunaway also plays a prominent role in the movie , delivering a very good performance . The only thing i didn't like was the ending . i don't mean to say it was bad ending , i had just hoped it would have gone in a different direction . the screenplay was written by Robert Towne , and Polanski himself had a hand in the screenplay , but is not credited . The screenplay is responsible for a great deal of the film's success , but this is clearly a team effort . All in all , Chinatown is a well crafted movie from all involved .
Ichabod Crane vs The headless Horseman	Sleepy Hollow is a wonderful film . it is very atmospheric , visually stunning and very creepy . Tim Burton does a wonderful job of directing here . this a very well paced film with excellent acting performances from all . the great Johnny Depp plays the role of Ichabod Crane , a very quirky police investigator who , due to his radical theories , is banished to the remote village of Sleepy hollow . Once there it is his job to solve the mysterious murders supposedly perpetrated by the Headless Horseman . the movie is set in the latter half of the 18th century . The supporting cast all put in great performances . This a movie that will disturb you and keep you enraptured by it's beautiful visual style . Sleepy Hollow is also a movie of substance . Burton recreates the time and place very authentically . Though Burton can be hit and miss with his films , he hits the mark with this one .
a modern psychological suspense masterpiece	i'm not going to give much of the plot of this one away , just in case you're one of the three people on the planet who hasn't seen this movie . suffice to say that it is one of the greatest psychological suspense thrillers in modern time . this is one eerie movie , strongly anchored by the performance of Haley Joel Osment . , who plays the character to which the title refers . Bruce Willis and Toni Collette also put in strong performances . and watch for a brilliant performance from an unrecognizable Donnie Wahlberg ( yes that Donnie Wahlberg from " New Kids on the Block " fame ) . who knew he could act ? you will almost certainly have to watch this movie more than once , and you will discover something new each time . if you have'nt seen it , and somehow have managed to avoid knowing anything about it , i highly recommend it . to end , i will just say that this movie is a modern Masterpiece . 10 + + + / 10
arguably the best version of the story	there are several filmed version of this movie , ( and though i admit i haven't seen the other versions ) this is arguably the most famous filmed version of The Charles Dickens classic , and Alistair is arguably the definitive Scrooge . Alistair Sim is wonderful as Scrooge , the men old miser who's heart changes for the better one Christmas Eve . Sim's transformation from grumpy , people , hating , Christmas hating tightwad to a lovable kind hearted joy filled man is astonishing . i had a tear or two in my eye before it was over . the story is obviously one of redemption and , hope and love , and there's a lesson in that for all of us . my vote for a Christmas Carol , AKA Scrooge , is a
one of the best superhero movies ever made	Batman Begins is easily one of the best superhero movies ever made . the movie basically tells the story of the genesis of the caped crusader . obviously , there is a fair amount of character development involved , which you would expect based on the title . but not so much that the film becomes tedious . Batman is shown as more of a full dimensional character than in previous incarnations . this version is also more faithful to the comic . Director Christopher Nolan shows great skill as a director , pacing the film very well . there are also some touches of humour throughout and we get to see a more human side to Bruce Wayne . The villains are also more fully realized than in most movies of the genre , instead of simply being devices for the hero ( the protagonist ) to have a villain ( antagonist ) to defeat . Gary Oldman and Morgan Freeman are standouts in their respective roles , as is Liam Neeson . Katie Holmes Has yet to reach the level of maturity require for her role , so she is a bit weak . This Batman movie is less cartoonish than previous efforts , and is closer to the realm of realism ( relatively speaking ) the movie is also more thoughtful than many movies depicting superheros there is much more substance . in fact more substance than style , though it is just stylistic enough . All in all a brilliant depiction of the origin of the caped crusader . this movie sets the bar high for its successor , the Dark Knight , which is to be released sometime in 2008 .
a social commentary on our times ( with a searing performance by Michael Douglas )	wow . this movie blew me away . it was relevant then , and it even more relevant today . Michael Douglas gives a searing performance as an ordinary man who has a really bad day , and explodes under the pressure . his character is someone anyone who lives in the big city can relate to and feel empathy for . not only does the film examine what happens when an ordinary is pushed past the breaking limit , it also examines the ramification of that person's action and the effect on that person and others . it also shows how silly we have gotten as a society , with all of our ridiculous ways of doing business . it's almost as if things are set up deliberately for someone to lose control . Joel Schumacker ( Phonebooth ) directed this movie and although i'm not generally a fan , he impressed me here . i also liked the writing and the dialogue . the supporting cast are also good , but this is Douglas's show . to , me this is a career making performance . a masterpiece , if i've ever seen one . 10 + + + / 10
sequel improves on original	once again we have a case where the sequel outdoes the original . the original set the stage for the characters and is well done . however , the sequel is better than the original for one main reason , a better villain . this time Daniel is forced to fight for his life ( literally ) against a much more skilled opponent than he faced in the original . there is much more tension in this movie and more scenes of peril . the violence is more vivid and graphic . The setting is much more exotic , this time Okinawa being where most of the story takes place . so , visually we have a much more picturesque movie to look at . also , we see some of the culture of the people of Okinawa ( accurate or not , i'm not sure ) . there is also more happening in this film . we have a subplot involving Mr . Myagi and a choice he must make . so , the story is more developed , the location is nicer , and the villain is better written than the 1st . and of course Mr . Myagi continues to teach Wisdom to Daniel as well as the Okinawan Village . when you add it all up , this makes for a better movie . but parents should be warned , again , that their is more graphic violence and sequences of peril in this one . use your discretion .
A John Ford classic	grapes of Wrath is the story of a family who is forced to leave their Oklahoma Farmstead due to the great depression . they leave everything behind , and head for California , where the men hope to work and the family can make a go of things . things don't go as smoothly as they'd hoped , of course . the movie details the struggles they go through . the movie is based on the novel by John Steinbeck ( Of Mice and Men ) while the screenplay is written by Nunnally Johnson ( the Dirty Dozen ) . John Ford ( The Searchers , Cheyenne Autumn ) directs . Henry Fonda plays Tom Joad , on of the sons in the family , and the unofficial leader . the acting in this movie is superb from all concerned , and the movie is also well written . it's not an action movie at all , but a story and dialogue driven piece . i didn't find it slow at all , due in large part to John Ford's direction , the great acting and strong writing . it's sad at times , but never depressing . for me , The Grapes of Wrath is a
wow ! ! ! is all i can say	unbelievable . the first spider man movie was awesome , but this movie was even better . better special effects , better story , better villain . i didn't think there was any way the first one could be topped . in this one we have doc ock as the main villain , an inspired choice . the fight scenes this time around are absolutely mind blowing . added to the mix is that peter parker " s friend harry Osborne has become spidey's mortal enemy since discovering spidey had a hand in his father's ( green goblin ) death . there is an interesting and surprising subplot , which i won't reveal here . i gave the the first movie , so i have to give this one a 10 + / 10 and i can't wait for the third installment .
awesome	this film is awesome . i loved it . it's only Val Kilmer's second feature film , the first being Top Secret a year earlier . basically , it all about a college full of misfit geniuses and the mischief they get into , since most of them don't have to study . there are some very quirky characters , and some pretty funny pranks . but it's not all fun and games . possible spoilerthe students actually end up foiling a top secret military plot as well . end of spoilerfor sheer zaniness , it's hard to beat this film . the music , especially by Tears for Fears took me back . if you're looking for high art , this movie is far from it . but , if you just wanna sit back , turn your bairn off , and have some fun , this could be you movie . for me , it's a perfect
a laugh riot	i loved this movie . i was skeptical about it , thinking it would just be an overextended episode of the TV show . after all , many half hour shows have tried to transition into a successful feature length film , and very few actually succeed but since my friend bought it , i thought why not . as it turns out , this was one funny movie . and it actually had enough of a story to make a feature film . it was at least as funny as the earlier Simpsons episodes are , and a bit more risqu . but the bottom line is that it is hysterically funny . i don't know what else to say , other than i'm just so happy the the movie actually succeeds , with a decent storyline . it probably helps if you've seen the TV show first , but i don't think it's necessary . The Simpsons movie gets a from me
classic animation	this animated Spider man series ran 3 seasons with 77 episodes . i remember watching it as a kid and loving it . i finally bought it on DVD and i love it just as much today . sure the sound effects are cheesy , as is the music . and you can tell they had a very limited budget to work with and there are a lot of goofs in the show , but so what . that's all part of its charm . the villains are great and a lot of action is packed into the roughly 12 minute episodes ( some are around 20 minutes ) the Theme song is brilliant , and actually not in a cheesy way , it's instantly infectious and memorable . after you hear it once , it'll probably stick in your head . not many shows form that era stand the test of time , but this one certainly does . for me Spider-Man the animated series ( 1967 ) is a well deserved
excellent drama dealing with the traumatic after effects of the Vietnam War	after just having watched The Deer Hunter , which is a masterpiece , the movie Jacknife had big shoes to fill . it has same themes as The Deer Hunter , the devastating effects on a person after the Vietnam War . Robert De Niro is in this film , as in The Deer Hunter and is very good here , as is Kathy Baker . but this movie belongs to Ed Harris , who gives a powerful , emotional and impactful performance . the movie is based on a stage play , and there are one or two scenes where that felt obvious to me . by that i just mean that for those one or two scenes it felt like i was watching a stage play . that was not that big a deal , and doesn't really diminish the film . i actually really liked this movie . it's not an epic like The Deer Hunter . they are about similar era and have similar themes , but they are two very different films . i thought The Deer Hunter was great , and i also think this movie was great . it's the acting in this one that makes it so great . for me , Jacknife is a
" I know now why you cry , but it's something i cannot do "	as good as the first terminator movie is , this one is better . it's got harrowing action sequences , quite a bit of humour , and more character development . it's not as dark as the first one . instead it has more of hopeful tone . it has strong message too , that is becoming more and more relevant each passing day Arnie is back , but this time his terminator is has more dimensions to his personality . Joe Morton , a terrific ( though underrated ) actor also plays a prominent role , and is also terrific . Linda Hamilton returns and her character is much more defined and has more to do . she is certainly up to the task . but really , the ( human ) star of the movie has to be Robert Patrick in what i think was a career making performance . the guy is just amazing . the biggest star of all in this movie would have to be the special effects . they were beyond cutting edge then , and they still stand the test of time today . for me this movie is definitely in my top 10 movies of all time . my vote for Terminator 2 : Judgment Day is a perfect .
great quality , family friendly viewing	this comment refers to the 1976 television series which lasted 26 episodes although on this site it is shows just 10 episodes . y sister & i watched this show when we were young kids . and really liked it . fast forward thirty years , and we still enjoy it . this is one show where the appeal doesn't wear off like many shows of the time . i mean , the acting is great , the scenery is very nice . the show may be dated , but it doesn't feel that way at all . i recently bought the complete series and i'm really glad i did . of all the actor sin the show , as far as i can tell , only Diana Leblanc , who played the mother Elizabeth , and Chris Wiggins , who played the father Johan ( he was actually referred to as simply John on the show ) actually acted much , before and after the show , although Ricky O'Neil who played Franz was in TV show episode and TV movie before then . anyway , as for " Swiss Family Robinson " i can't say enough for this show . it's family friendly , quality television . ( very young children may be a bit frightened by some scenes ) my vote for this show :
easily stars on the laughometer	this ' Brit Com ' gets an easy from me . the Brits really know how to make a great sitcom . the writing easily rivals that of any North American show of this genre or any genre . the show is more risqu than many shows we have here , though things have changed in the that regard in the last few years . this is due mainly to the proliferation of specially channels . anyway , back to " Coupling " . the writing is superb as are the performances . i would probably say that this show is equal to " Friends " in quality writing and performances , but that is just my opinion . if you have fairly conservative tastes , this show is not for you , as it could be considered offensive or worse . everybody has their own opinions . for me , nothing beats " Coupling " for pure hysterics and misunderstandings . as i said , an easy for me
finally , a comedy worth watching ( for all the right reasons )	wow . this is one of the funniest movies i have ever seen . I don't think i have ever laughed more or harder . i mean this in a good way . finally , a comedy that is not just funny , but hysterical . without giving away too much , the plot is this . Max accidentally clones a women named Kate , and he and his buddy Henry decide to to teach the clone to behave like a guy , thinking she would be the perfect woman . disaster and hilarity ensue . the beautiful and very talented Ali Landry plays the dual role of Kate and the clone Repli-Kate . Ali does an astounding job as the woman who behaves more like a man than most men . this movie is brilliant . a warning though , this movie is definitely not for young kids , due to very crude language and sexual situations . out of 10
a worthy addition to the Superman mythos	it just keeps getting better and better . while i will admit the 1st season was a bit slow , the second improved slightly . however from then on , it just exploded . each episode , never mind each season is more riveting than the last . having just finished season 5 , which blew me away with the last episode , i can only imagine what season 6 must be like , Especially as Clark inches ever so close to his ultimate destiny , Superman . Smallville is a very unique and compelling look at Clark Kent , before he becomes Superman . the only question is , how long can they keep it going , as Clark must soon be ready to make the leap . will they continue on , with Clark as Superman ? either way , let's hope they have the presence of mind to end things on a high note . for right now , however , the series shows no signs of slowing down , or diminished quality . Alfred Gough and Miles Millar have crafted truly unique vision of Clark Kent's pre Superman era , which will take it's place among pop culture as a worthy addition to the Superman lore . I have to give Smallville
tension , and suspense through the roof	as suspense / thrillers go this one is top notch . it is extremely suspenseful and thrilling . but it's also very graphic and disturbing . i had a hard time watching because of that . but good movies of this genre do that , make you uncomfortable and unnerved . besides , i didn't find it gratuitous at all . plus , there's a great twist in this one . a lot of people will probable figure it out , but i still think it's a great twist . the acting is first rate here , from all concerned . Holly Hunter and Wil Patton are very good , and Dermot Mulroney puts in a great performance . but in my mind it is Sigourney Weaver and Harry Connick who own the movie with their performances . this movie has elements of Silence of the Lambs and Seven , but it is no copycat of those movies . it is it's own movie , and in my opinion , better than Silence , and as good as Seven , maybe even a bit better . i haven't seen a movie with this much intensity in along time . it's one of those movies that will likely stick with you long after the end credits have rolled . at least it has with me . for me , Copycat is a perfect
a real rush , but those of you who need a little bit of reality and / or logic to their action won't like it	this , the 4th installment of the Die hard franchise is easily the most thrilling and action packed . however , logic and reality are thrown out the window for the action scenes . if you like your action with a little bit of realty and logic , you won't like this movie . but for me , the movie was so fun , i didn't care . but beyond being just a slam bang action thrill ride it's also very relevant and thought provoking . if the technology that society almost totally depend on were to completely crash , how would you react , and hoe would the general public react . this movie gives one hypothetical example of the answer to that question . it's great to see this installment is geared more towards our techno savvy contemporary audience . but it's also still great for audiences that grew up with the franchise . not only is this a thrilling and thought provoking movie , but it's also very funny , possibly the funniest of all four movies . for me , Live Free or Die Hard is a perfect for sheer excitement alone . the rest is just gravy .
Badder Santa , the unrated version	i really enjoyed this Christmas movie that's actually the ultimate anti Christmas movie i have seen . by that , i don't mean it's against Christmas . i mean it's totally the opposite of what you would normally think of as A Christmas movie . it's rude , crude , offensive , totally inappropriate and absolutely a riot . this is definitely not your father's Christmas movie , that's for sure . it's loaded with vulgar and / or offensive dialogue , and shows Santa in a much darker light . i guess you'd call him the anti Santa . it's bold , and brash , and pushes all kinds of envelopes without apology . it has the beautiful and talented Lauren Graham , from The TV series , The Gilmore girls . this character is a total departure from that character , pretty much the exact opposite in fact . yet Graham is so skilled that i never once thought about Gilmore Girls . and she is very funny . Billy Bob Thornton plays the title character and is hysterical . the supporting cast is also great , including Tony Cox , Bernie Mac , John Ritter . i should also mention the writing and the dialogue , which are brilliant . the dialogue is witty an fresh . but be warned , if you are someone who gets easily offended , avoid this movie . if not , sit back and laugh you're a @ s off . a very enthusiastic
a triumph	i really enjoyed this movie . i thought it was very clever . it also deals with themes that are as relevant today as they were in the 1950'snad it touches on themes that were relevant in the 1940'sthis film is set both in the 90's and the 50's . it's multi-layered in terms of story and content . there's a lot of depth here . a lot of thought was put into the characters , as well as the story . it's very thought provoking , as well as entertaining and even funny . not only is the story well written , but so are the quirky characters . Reese Witherspoon and Tobey Magiure are wonderful as the two leads . Jeff Daniels , Joan Allen , William H . Macy , J . T . Walsh , and the great Don Knotts also star and are equally good . Credit must also go to Gary Ross , who not only directed the movie , but also produced and wrote it . even though there are some dark themes , i think this a movie that could be , and should be watched by the whole family . but parents should use their discretion . for me , Pleasantville is a
possibly the funniest and best written sitcom in modern times	Friends is quite possibly the funniest and best written sit com of the modern era . this show is fantastic . great characters , great dialogue , hysterical comedy . i actually wasn't into Friends for the longest time . then , i saw an episode on TV and was hooked . i have since bought all ten seasons on DVD . besides just being funny , the show has an edge to it . sometimes it is even racy , but subtly so , because on occasion the characters would say or do something that made me think , hmmm , the censors must have missed that one . the show revolves around the lives of six twenty somethings living in New York City Their favorite hang out is a coffee shop called Central Perk ( a great play on words ) each of the friends has their own different personalities and quirks , which all mesh together perfectly . the show rarely delved into any serious drama , but it didn't need to . It's strength is clearly comedy . creators Marta Kauffman and David Crane hit gold with this series . Kauffman also wrote a majority of the episodes and Crane wrote a number as well . the show remained consistently high quality throughout its 10 year run , and the last season was more serious than the previous . if you want a show which will have you p - - - ing your pants and bawling with laughter , this is your show .
classic with Gregory Peck	this is an outstanding film . it deals with the subject of hate and ignorance , and basically tells us we should all treat each other with respect and caring . the dialogue is very well written and the characters are all interesting . Gregory Peck gives a brilliant understated performance as a humble small town lawyer who tries to teach his children the same morals and values he has . he ends up taking a very unpopular court case , and his resolve is tested . the movie has a voice over narration by the adult version of one of the children , and i found it very effective . not everyone will like , this movie . it movies a a sedate pace , and some will find that boring . but if you do watch it to the end , you will probably be moved by it . i know i was . my vote for To Kill A Mockingbird is a
very well done documentary	this is an extremely interesting documentary on jack the ripper and who he really was . the difference is this documentary also has a panel of experts who weigh in on the subject , and give their opinions of who the killer was . when this documentary was made over 20 tears ago , there were were a only a handful of suspects . since that time , there may have been more information and other / more suspects . or the identity of the ripper may have been definitively proved . i don't necessarily think the show was successful in unmasking the killer , but it certainly could have been one of the suspects which they focused on . nonetheless , it is highly informative and entertaining , and well researched . Peter Ustinov as host was a good choice . i enjoyed his dry wit and dark sense of humour . for me , The Secret Identity of Jack the Ripper is a
a brilliant comedy classic ( hopefully intentional )	this has got to be one of the funniest movies i have ever seen . i think or at least hope ) it was intentional . think of every horror movie you can think of and mix them all together ( minus the horror aspect of course ) . add in every conceivable clich you can imagine along with the most inane dialogue ever written . then populate your film with every possible backwoods , redneck stereo type you can find . next add in your stock victim characters doing all the stupid things the horror genre is known for . and of course the two most important ingredients : absolutely atrocious acting and no discernible plot . put all this together and you have what has to be on of the funniest comedies ever made . actually it's billed as a horror comedy , but one out of two ain't bad . i nearly wet myself throughout the whole movie . this is an absolute gem . if the filmmakers intentionally set out to make their film this funny , they are truly brilliant . if not , there is no hope for any of them . I will mention that the last act was definitely played for laughs . it is the rest of it that is hard to pin down . if you're feeling depressed or even a little down , watch this cinematic masterpiece , and you'll be holding you guts from laughter . forget Prozac , use this movie instead . if you have to dig down to the bowels of the earth to find this movie , do it .
a mystical , supernatural journey seen through he eyes of one man	we have here another rare case of a Stephen King novel which translates well to the big screen . i really enjoyed this story . it's has elements of both the supernatural and the mystical . or maybe those two elements are both the same . either way , this is a well written movie , with well written characters . it's very dramatic and quite long , but that's no criticism of this movie at all . quite the contrary . the movie flows very well and is almost over before you know it . you will want to watch this one more than once . the green mile refers to the long walk from the jail cell to the execution chamber in one particular prison . the movie takes us on a journey of many years as seen and told by one prison warden in particular named Paul Edgecomb and played by Tom Hanks . Edgecomb's life will eventually be transformed by an encounter with one very special man , who end up a prisoner . this is where the supernatural and mystical aspects come in . i'll leave it at that . fro me , " The Green Mile " is a
absolutely brilliant action / comedy / dysfunctional hit men movie	this movie blew me away . it is absolutely brilliant . it seamlessly combines action , comedy , awesome dialogue , with shamelessly over the top fighting and stunt work . There are are even some tender romantic drama scenes . there is a large amount of swearing but it fits with the movie , so is not gratuitous . i won't give any of the plot away , because it has too be seen to be believed . this is an ensemble piece , with great performances across the board . the film is paced perfectly and never loses steam for a minute . some of the situations and actions are so ridiculous ( and intentionally so ) absurd , you just can't help but howl with laughter this movie is an absolute riot from start to finish . i can't recommend it enough . if you haven't seen " The Big Hit " you owe it to yourself to do so . i don't ' understand how anyone can dislike this movie . 10 + / 10
in a very close race for best show on TV	Earlier on , in a review of CSI : Las Vegas , i wrote that CSI may be possibly be the best show on the air . the only other show which might ( i mean might ) be better is the Gilmor Girls . Now it isn't really fair to compare the 2 shows , since they are not the same genre . CSI is a forensic crime drama , which does employ dark humour at times . Gilmor Girls is a drama / comedy , but it uses wit and sarcasm as humour quite often . so really the are not similar at all . if you are not familiar with the show it goes like this : Lorelai Gilmor ( Lauren Graham ) and her teenage daughter Rory ( Alexis Bledel ) cope with life in the small town of Stars Hollow . i say cope because they live in a town with some very eccentric , some say odd characters . and there are a few that may just be nuts . in addition to having to deal with the townsfolk , both also have to contend with Lorelai's overbearing mother and distant Father , who live outside of town , but for reasons i won't reveal here , they must spend more time than they want to with them . Or rather , Loralie must spend more time than she wants to . there is more to the story than this , but i don't want to give it away , for someone who has not seen the show . The show was created by Amy Sherman , who with her husband Daniel also wrote several of the episodes up to and including season six . this show is amazingly well written , the dialogue is truly magnificent . one of the signature devices in the show is the rapid fire , back and forth banter between Lorelai and Rory , and the way the communicate with other people . the show , aside from being witty and sarcastic , is also very edgy . it deals with some vary serious adult issues at times , and is sometimes heartbreaking . The other thing Gilmor Girls is known for is it's pop culture references . each episode is peppered with them , some of them obscure . if you're not paying attention , you will miss a lot of them , as they are usually referenced machine gun style , almost as an aside . anyway , the show started off brilliantly and has remained so . this isn't just a chick show , despite what you may think . Guys will love it too , though some may not readily admit it . if you haven't seen it , you should start by picking up season 1 , since the storyline has progressed from each episode . what else can i say except , awesome , awesome , awesome .
a stunning biography of johnny cash	wow ! ! ! i'd heard this was a great film , so i finally decided to watch it . i have to say , it exceeded my expectations . the acting was amazing in this movie , as was the direction . i really liked the fact that it showed cash at his worst , as well as his best . there was a great back story to walk the line , beginning with cash as a twelve year old child , and how he had a less than perfect childhood . his father was a jerk , to put it mildly , while his mother just stood on the sidelines , allowing young john to be treated poorly . the supporting performances were also very good . but it was joaquin phoenix ( as a grown up cash , and reese witherspoon , as june carter who would eventually agree to marry him and become june carter cash ) , who were both brilliant . there was great chemistry between the two , and you really wanted them to get together . i really liked the interplay between the two . the dialogue was well written . i also loved the old songs , from the 50s and 60's . this film showed cash as a rockabilly type singer , before he became famous for his country songs . he was very popular as a rockabilly singer , much more popular than i think most people realize . he wasn't a perfect person , by any means . he had his problems , but was deep down a good man , and really tried hard to turn his life around . you felt sympathy for him and felt his happiness when june carter finally agreed to marry him . this is one of the best movies i have ever seen . great movie all around . wow ! ! ! i highly recommend it . even if you are not a johnny cash fan , ( which i wasn't ) , you will be entertained . as an aside apparently both phoenix and witherspoon did all the singing themselves , making their performances even more amazing .
mind blowing sci-fi fantasy movie	the original Lawnmower Man is a masterpiece . great acting from both Pierce Brosnan and especially from Jeff Fahey , who plays the title character , but whose real name is Jobe Smith . Jobe is nicknamed the Lawnmower Man because that's what he does-mows people's lawns . However Jobe is Mentally challenged with the intellect of a young child . he is of course picked on by many , and abused both physically and mentally by the person entrusted with his care . It just so happens , however that Jobe lives next door to and cuts the Lawn of Dr . Lawrence Angelo , ( Pierce Brosnan ) a scientist whose field is the study of intellectual enhancement . to make a long story short Jobe willingly becomes a participant in Dr . Angelo's research and gains enormous intelligence , more than could possibly be imagined . this intelligence comes with a grave cost however . the above premise is brilliant and superbly executed . What could have been a disaster turns into near perfection , due not only to great acting , but also the skillful direction of Brett Leonard , who later helmed the very well done " Virtuosity " , starring Russel Crowe . He also helmed the upcoming " Highlander : the Source " and unfortunately , the pathetic " Man thing " so you never can tell . anyway , back to the Lawnmower Man . aside from the great premise , good direction and acting , this movie also had one other thing going for it : mind blowing special effects achieved with cgi , i believe which is all the more astonishing since this art form was in its infancy . bottom line-awesome movie .
brilliant epic adventure	this film ranks as one of Michael Mann's best films , and he has directed some good ones , and a few not so good . it takes place in 18th century ( 1757 to be exact ) North America , during the French and Indian war . Daniel Day Lewis stars as Hawkeye an adopted member of the dying Mohawk Indian tribe . Hawkeye just happens to be a white man , who along with the other two remaining Mowhawks , are on the run , as they refuse to join the English and struggle to stay alive and regain their freedom . along the way they engage various enemies and come to the aid of others . there is also a romantic element to the story which works well . the dramatic and action moments both work very well and the fighting scenes are very well done . i really like the fighting styles the Mohicans employ . when all is said and done . this is a first rate movie with first rate performances . a very strong
moving and emotionally impactful ( if you liked " The Green Mile " you will like this movie )	like " The Shawshank Redemption , " The Green Mile " is another case of a Stephen King story which translates well from the page to the screen . as in " Mile " , this movie is also directed by Frank Darabont , who also wrote the screenplay . another similarity is the prison setting and the fact that the movie is seen and told through the eyes of one man ( Morgan Freeman ) who just happens to be a prison lifer and the things he sees as the years go by . he tells the story of one man who becomes a prisoner ( TIm Robbins ) and who he becomes friends with . the movie then chronicles their friendship and struggles in the prison system . unlike " The Green Mile " , there is no mystical or supernatural element to this film . however , this film is of the same calibre of " Mile " , owing to its solid writing , acting , and direction . " Shawshank " is very dramatic , yet very compelling . it's also a very moving tale . it will likely impact you emotionally and intellectually . and before i forget , i must also mention the ending , which i thought was very strong . for me , " The Shawshank Redemption " is a strong
Interpol agent pursues arms dealer	Lord of war is a very effective movie . it is well written , there is a decent back story to the main character via numerous flash backs . Nicolas Cage plays an arms dealer being pursued relentlessly by an interpol agent . ( Ethan Hawke ) I liked the first person narrative with Cage doing the voice-over . it worked well with this picture . a friend of mine complained that it was too preachy , telling us of the evil of guns and showing the deaths of many people particularly young people , to hammer home the point . However i chose to see it as a piece of entertainment , looking beyond what the agenda might have been . if we always look for a hidden agenda in a movie , then we rob ourselves of the experience and we limit ourselves to certain movies and lose out on other perhaps great films . Of course independent of all this we hope the movie is well made and has some entertainment value . Lord of War is one of those movies . it is immensely entertaining , with good performances . i love this movie .
a true classic in the horror genre	where do i begin ? john carpenter's " the fog " is truly a great movie . the filmmakers had a limited budget , but achieved a lot on what they had . the plot is as follows : a thick fog rolls into the town of " antonio bay " on the day of the towns 100 year anniversary . but this is no ordinary fog . it hides within it the ghosts of some sailors ( from a leper colony ) who were betrayed and left to die by the founders of the town . these ghosts seek revenge on the ancestors of the founders , and of course innocent people also die by their hands . " the fog " has many things going for it , including a great musical score ( done by carpenter ) which helps to ratchet up the tension . it also has good acting and plenty of suspense throughout . visually the movie is very beautiful , with nice shots of the landscape and the surrounding area . there are no special effects to speak of ( other than the fog itself , which glows eerily ) but this movie doesn't require any . nor will you find an abundance of gore , as is sadly the case with most so called horror movies made today . it relies on good old fashioned chills and thrills and succeeds admirably . but the best thing " the fog " has going for it is adrienne barbeau . who plays stevie wayne , dj and owner of her own radio station on the bay . that husky , smooth sultry voice gets me every time and is absolutely perfect for this movie . of course we do get to see her too , ( alas with clothes on ) which is also awesome . all in all a great movie , which unfortunately was remade into a not so great movie . skip the remake . stick with the original .
unrated version	i just finished watching Dressed to Kill , which is written and directed by Brian De Palma . the DVD had both the " R " rated version and the unrated version . i chose the unrated version . since i have yet to view the " R " rated version , i can't be completely sure of the difference . there is however a very graphic graphic female nudity including a scene of explicit expression of self gratification in this version . i guess you could call this scene soft core porn . if this sort of thing may offend you , i would suggest you view the " R " rated version . but i digress . Any comment from here on refers to the unrated version . this is a murder mystery / psychological horror / suspense movie . there is very little violence and blood . there is however one death sequence of note . the act of the killing itself is fairly graphic . however the blood it self does not look real . it is reminiscent of how a 70's slasher film would look . i believe this is done deliberately to offset the violence of the act itself , to give the scene a low budget feel . most of the violence , or rather possibility of such , is implied . the film is very well paced . as far as i can tell every scene had a purpose , which i find very rare when compared to many of today's films . anyway , i also thought the acting was good , especially Angie Dickinson . and Micheal Cane turns in a quietly understated performance in his role , which works brilliantly in this case . the movie also has one great twist in it , in my mind , although some people might find it predictable . the only complaint ( and it's really more of an observation ) i have is that i thought the character played by Nancy Allen could have been fleshed out more , especially considering she has a fair amount of screen time . but i think she does a good job with what she is given . and this doesn't really take away from the quality of the film . the film also has a strong moral to it , which is even more relevant today . but the movie doesn't hit you over the head with it . i also really liked the musical score , composed by Pino Dinaggioi felt it was very similar to the music in the original Psycho . to me , this music really elevated the movie . i thought this movie was brilliant . for me , Dressed to Kill ( 1980 ) is
well told story	i've seen a few of the Coen Brothers movies , and didn't really like most of them . i just thought they were too weird . but this one's different . it seems more based in reality . these characters could exist and their actions are plausible . i also thought the characters were well defined within the confines of the movie . this is a dark movie , for sure . the story is set in 1980 , and is more or less told from the point of view of the local sheriff and his perspective on the changing times and the new breed of criminal . this is a crime drama , but it's also a western of sorts . it's violent , but not as much as many other movies . this is a character and dialogue driven movie . i thought it was well done . it's not an action packed movie . in fact , it may seem a bit slow at times but the story is told well enough , and the characters are interesting and engaging enough that it never becomes boring . in fact , i found it very compelling . i liked everything about this movie . No country for Old Men is a
pure adrenaline rush ( and frickin scary too )	my buddy and i recently watched neil marshal's " the descent " and i have to say we were impressed . unlike many horror movies , this one actually had good character development , crucial if you want the audience to have a vested interest in the characters and their fate . and the scenes in the cave are quite well done , showing the fear and panic of the characters . you really feel for them since you've had a chance to get to know them . once the action gets going , it grabs you by the throat and won't let go . we barely had time catch our breath before another intense action / horror sequence would bombard us . the tension at times was palpable , and once the creatures are revealed , they are truly terrifying indeed and you never know when or where they will show up . my friend and i both jumped several times throughout and it wasn't until the movie ended that we were able to take some deep breaths and sigh in relief , as our minds and bodies had been in overdrive . i thought the ending was good and unpredictable , which is rare these days . even after the movie ended it took awhile for us both to wind down from the adrenaline rush . this is a movie you might not be able to get through alone , so you are better of watching it with someone . be prepared for an adrenaline fueled thrill ride along with some genuine terror . you have been warned
The strongest Entry in the Star Wars Saga	how do you top a movie like the original star wars . well , it's not easy , but you make a better movie . by better , i mean a more fleshed out storyline and characters . also the motivations of some characters are more clearly defined . this movie is definitely darker than the original , which makes sense since the enemy triumphs , if only for a short time . this movie built upon the strengths of the 1st one , namely good story line which carries the movie forward and of course the villain , who is much stronger in this installment . it goes without saying that the visual effects are once again outstanding . this entry is considered by many to be the strongest of the saga , and rightly so . it sets up perfectly for its sequel " return of the Jedi " . this film gets a very strong only because that is the highest rating given by IMDb
brilliant	where to start ? this is one terrific movie . it's funny , has good characters and dialogue . it's also action packed . true , many of the fighting scenes seems a bit corny , but that's probably how they fought back then . back then , they really had to act , unlike today , where some special effect can distract the viewer , so the actor isn't the main focus . also , this was 1938 , and talking pictures hadn't brr around that long . many actors were used to the style of acting in the silent films and just carried that over to the talkies . as for the DVD itself , it has been beautifully restored . the picture is cleans sharp and crisp . anyway , for me " The Adventures of Robin hood is a
" fact or fiction ? you decide "	i stumbled across this collection by accident , and i'm really glad i did . it's an anthology series , containing five separate short stories in one hour . each tale has too do with the unexplained . the tales themselves defy explanation , logic , and even reality . the twist is that of the five stories , some are based on actual events and some are merely made up to entertain the viewer . it is not until the last segment is over that the host ( James Brolin in season one ) reveals which stories are true and which are made up . i like the idea of trying to separate fact from fiction . for me , this is a very compelling , well written series . each of the stories is less than 10 minutes long , yet gives you all the information you need . if you want something that'll send shivers down your spine , this is the series you've been waiting for .
don't over analyze it , just enjoy it for what it is	i don't get all the negativity about this show . i thought it was fantastic . i liked the stunts and the action sequences , the acting is good , and i thought the writing was good . casting Michelle Ryan in the title role was genius , in my opinion . she's beautiful , athletic , and talented . having Katee Sackoff guest star for five episodes was also a great idea . Lucy Hale is a perfect fit as Becca , Jamie Sommers's younger sister . her and Michelle Ryan have such a natural chemistry together . really , the whole cast is great . for me , this version of The Bionic Woman stands on its own merit . it doesn't copy the original . i had a blast watching the 8 ( and apparently only ) episodes . i don't think it deserved to be cancelled . anyway , for me , The Bionic Woman is a
technically and artistically brilliant	considering this movie was made in the late 1970's , it is a remarkable achievement . technically , it is nearly flawless , in my opinion . i guess there are few tiny details you could pick apart if you wanted to , but overall , it's a brilliant piece of work . as for the movie itself , i thought the story was superb , with a lot of depth to it . the movie was well acted and believable . Having Marlon Brandon and Gene Hackman was a stroke of luck , as well as genius . and hiring a then unknown Christopher Reeve in the title role was equally genius . having an unknown keeps the focus on the character and the story , not the actor . a famous actor in the role would not have been believable . Margot Kidder was also good as Lois Lane . the rest of the supporting cast was also great . this movie is a true epic , which still has an impact today . the special effects were cutting edge at the time . i think the movie as a whole has more than stood the test of time . an easy in my opinion .
truly great political intrigue film	The contender is a powerful , riveting movie of political backstabbing and hidden agendas . it is full of suspense and intrigue . a very dramatic film , yet not at all boring , with a great mix of characters and some explosive revelations . this is a very well done movie with some big name actors putting in stellar performances . Jeff Bridges plays president Jackson Evans , who , upon the death of the vice-president is faced with the task of nominating a replacement . Joan Allen plays democratic senator Laine Hanson , the president's nominee . However she must first appear before the confirmation committee and be approved . and this will not prove easy . this is where the movie really gets going . both Bridges and Allen put in solid performances , but it is Gary Oldman who plays committee chair Sheldon Runyon ( a republican ) who is a standout . Oldman gives a powerhouse performance . Christian Slater , Sam Elliott , William Peterson , Saul Rubinek , and Philip Baker Hall , among others also put in terrific performances . this is truly a great movie . but , if you are sensitive about your politics , you might want to avoid this one . otherwise prepare to be entertained for 2 hours .
if you thought Wallace and Gromit in the Curse of the Wererabbit was funny ,	you will really love this film . what a riot it was . i'ts from Dreamworks and Aardman Entertainment , the same people behind Wallace and Gromit . it's hysterically funny and fast paced and exciting . i loved Wallace and Gromit in The Curse of The Wererabbit , but i thought this movie was even funnier . it's a bit more risqu with the humour , which adults will pick up on , and kids will of course love it . a lot of the humour is very cheeky . there is a bit of rude , and crude humour here . not only is the film funny , it also looks very good , technically . the choice of actors for the voices was brilliant . the whole thing is just so well done . for me , Flushed Away is a
hit man coerces cabbie to drive him to his hits	this is a Micheal Mann film , starring Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx . This has too be Cruise's greatest performance . He plays a hit-man named Vincent who forces a taxi driver named Max ( Jamie Foxx ) to drive him around all nite to his hits . Cruise is brilliant in this role . Vincent is a conservative , impeccably dressed man somewhere in his fifties . this is a much older character than Cruise usually plays . he is also really great as the villain . he exudes menace from every pore and has ice in his veins . Foxx is good as Max , but the movie belongs to Cruise . Mann makes this movie a real suspenseful nail biter . i think this is on of his better movies . Jada Pinket Smith and Mark Ruffallo are also in the movie with small parts , but both are pretty good in their respective roles , though i though Pinkett Smith was more impressive . i thought this movie was brilliant . i give " Collateral
Brilliant depiction of Howard Hughes's early years	" the Aviator is a brilliant piece of work . Martin Scorcese did a brilliant job directing it . but credit must also go to everyone else on the crew , for the astonishing look of the film . The film is a biopic about the early years of Howard Huges . it clocks in at close to 3 hours , but is so well paced , it is never boring . Leonardo DiCaprio plays the role of Hughes , and i have to say he blew me away with his performance , especially in scenes where he begins to deteriorate mentally , up to the point where he is a full blown paranoid schizophrenic . DiCaprio handles these scenes masterfully . The supporting cast is also very good , including Alec Baldwin , Cate Blanchett , Alan Alda , among others . i have no idea how factually accurate the movie is , but that is why it is called a biopic and not a documentary . I'm sure the filmmakers took some liberties to make the film more appealing and relevant to today's audiences . This is all in all , a brilliant effort from all involved . 10 + / 10
Schwimmer rises above Friends	David Schwimmer plays the title character , who is married with two kids and works in a casino . then one stupid mistake , and he loses everything . this film is not at all preachy . it's more of an observation about how devastating alcohol abuse can be . Janeane Garofalo plays Linda , Dune's ( ex ) wife . both Schwimmer and Garofalo are excellent here . Schwimmer sheds his Friendds persona with ease . i was not reminded of that show at all . this is a drama , but it also has some lite comedy bits . it's not depressing at all . in fact , i think it's hopeful and even uplifting . it's a small , independent gem that a lot of people did not see , unfortunately . if you get a chance , i highly recommend you watch it .
stellar performances in a stellar movie	this is a very moving and heartwarming made for TV drama . i'm sure many people cringe when they here the words ' made for TV . i think that's too bad , because there are a lot of well made TV dramas . this is certainly one of them . it is as i said heartwarming , but it also has its sad moments . it concerns a mentally challenged woman named Sarah ( hence the title ) played by Mary Steenburgen . she is in her 40's and has a normal daughter . Sarah can not look after herself , so she is looked after by both her mother Rose ( Marion Ross ) and also her daughter Mary Beth ( Kellie Martin ) rose dies and it becomes Mary Beth's responsibility to look after her . she has some help in the form of Lila , Sarah's aunt Lila ( Dianne Baker ) . anyway , the movie details the struggles they have in looking after Sarah . the movie does play on your emotions , but that doesn't matter because it has the goods to back it up back it up . there are few surprises in the movie and a revelation or 2 that you might or might not see coming . the acting is superb on all fronts , but it'Mary Steenburgen who turns in a superb performance as Sarah . she is very believable and credible in the role . Kellie Matin is also very strong as Mary beth . all in all , this is a very well made production . i can't find anything wrong with it . " about Sarah " is a definite
brilliant filmaking , depp in great form . a masterpiece	i loved this movie . i bought it on DVD with really no expectations . boy , was i pleasantly surprised . the performances were excellent , the music was perfect for the film . depp gives an understated performance which kept me riveted for the whole movie . frank langella is brilliantly cast as the bad guy . emmanuaelle seigner was particularly effective as the mysterious girl who always seems to show up where depp's character , dean corso happens to be to lend a helping hand . but of course all is not as it seems , as the ending reveals . the ending reveals just enough to tease the viewer . i can find no fault with this movie . many people complained about the ending , but i thought the ending was as it should be , leaving the viewer to wonder what might happen next , which was , i think the point . all of the deaths in the movie were very creepy and eerie , especially the death of the baroness with her and her wheel chair ending up in flames . i had not seen a polanski movie before , but he really impressed me with this effort . I have watched this movie several times and loved it each time . to those people who hated this movie , all i can say is " to each their own " and maybe it is an acquired taste . this movie is definitely in my top ten .
classic , brilliant western starring John Wayne and directed by John Ford	Stagecoach is a classic John Wayne western . the basic plot of the story is this : a motley group of 9 people end up on a Stagecoach together , which must somehow make it through Hostile Apach Indian territory . for a movie made in 1939 , this movie is very good . actually , it's very good even by today's standards . there are lots of thrilling action sequences , as well as some quiet dramatic moments . the acting is top notch , as is the direction . the movie is visually very striking , no small feat , considering it is in black and white . even the dramatic sequences are somehow compelling . Even if you don't like John Wayne , or westerns in general , you will like this film . i highly recommend it .
warning : may cause your stomach to explode from too much laughter	this is one of the frickin ' funniest TV shows i have ever seen . i actually had to quit watching because my stomach became too sore from laughing . this is a simple show , about a simple town , with simple people . this show is sprinkled with odd ( at first glance ) characters with various quirks and habits . i will definitely be adding this show to my DVD collection . i urge anyone reading this comment to check it out . i don't know how else to say it - - this show rocks . the writing is very clever and witty , and self deprecating at times . and while the characters may seem odd , they are very endearing . the budget for this show is not high , but it doesn't need a high budget . it gets laughs out of the simple things in life . i highly recommend it , but you will likely only be able to watch a few episodes , before your stomach can't take anymore . For me " Corner Gas is a
raunchy low brow cinema at its finest	i'm almost ashamed to admit it , but i loved this movie . it's sick and demented , offensive and political incorrect . but its a riot . it's set in Florida in 1954 . it's basically about a bunch of horn dog teenagers trying to lose their virginity . but there's a lot more going on than just that . there's a lot of double entondres ( not sure if that's the right spelling or not ) here and lots of sexual innuendo and and also sex without any innuendo needed . this is low brow cinema at it's finest . i can see why it's classic though . i laughed my ass off so much i thought i was gonna die . Bob Clark , who directed the original horror classic " Black Christmas " also directed this movie . there are a few serious moments dealing with racism and antisemitism , but mostly it's all about the laughs . if you wanna know what the title " Porky's refers to , you'll have to watch the movie . i have to give this movie for making me laugh my ass off so much .
i loved every minute of it ,	but it poses a dilemma that most films don't . you , see , the thing is , usually you can pick out certain actors and say so and so is the best , or the worst . in this movie , though , everybody is a standout . in this case , that's pleasant and all too rare dilemma . Donald Sutherland shines in his role , Mary Tyler Moore is exceptional in her performance , Timothy Hutton is outstanding in his first feature role . in the supporting category , i thought Judd Hirsch was terrific , although i wish he had a bigger role here . the film win four academy awards and richly deserved them all . i have to warn you , though , it's not one of those shallow surface , blink and you miss it type of movies . this one rich in depth , in story characters and dialogue . it is driven by those elements , so if you're not into heavy drama , steer clear of this one . it really had an impact on me . for me , Ordinary people is a
awesome ! , awesome ! , awesome ! romantic comedy ( the best )	this is one of my all time favourite movies . i went to see it when it opened in 1992 , and liked it so much i saw it several more times . ( I immediately had a crush on Moira Kelly and still do , to this day ) it's basically the story of pairs figure skater Kate Mosely ( Moira Kelly ) who is on the verge of Olympic gold at the 1988 Olympics , but disaster strikes , and Kate's dream of an Olympic gold medal seem shattered . because Kate is a prima donna , she can not find any partner to work with her , despite her immense talent . meanwhile , US amateur hockey superstar Doug Dorsey ( D . B Sweeney ) is receive permanent vision loss during a vicious hit in a playoff game during the Olympics off the same year . Doug's dream of pro hockey evaporates . I don't want to say too much more , but put it this way : 2 years later , these 2 wind up as training partners in a bid for Olympic Gold in1992 , and since they are both from completely different worlds , you can imagine what happens next . anyway , this movie has it a all , great dialogue ( especially the interplay and barbs shot back and forth between the Kate and Doug ) very well choreographed skating sequences , perfect music , amazing chemistry between the 2 leads . and , of course , romance , with some comedy . this movie is very well paced , with no spots which drag at all . as for the 2 leads , i don't think you could find a better match than Kelly and Sweeney . every time i watch this movie , it is better than the last . trust me , if you haven't sen " The Cutting Edge " , you owe it to yourself to do so . it's just a great film .
powerful wartime drama about one humble man and his music	this is an absolutely brilliant movie set during World War 2 . it stars Adrian Brody as Jewish musician Wladyslaw Szpilman , whose only escape from the wartime hell is playing the piano . the screenplay is written by Ronald Harwood , based on the book by the real life Wladyslaw Szpilman , and is directed by Roman Polanski . the movie is touching and heartwarming , and also heartbreaking at times . it can be depressing , but is is also an inspiration . one man survives hell through music . but more than that that , others too are uplifted and have hope , all because of one humble pianist . Brody is brilliant , as always , inhabiting his character , as he always does . i don't think he's made a bad movie yet . or at least , he's always been great in every film , even if the film itself isn't . in this case , though , the film is brilliant . and say what you want about Polanski , he knows how to direct a movie ( we won't count " Rosemary's Baby " ) . if this film doesn't have an impact on you , i'd be surprised .
An unflinching tale of police corruption and scandal in the 1950's	L . A Confidential is a great movie . it is very well written and very well directed . it is an unflinching tale of police corruption and scandal in the 1950's . this movie boasts a first rate cast , including Russel Crowe , Kevin Spacey , Danny Devito , Kim Basinger , and James Cromwell , among many others . all give top notch performances , but as usual Kevin Spacey stands out , and Russel Crowe is brilliant , as always . The man is a chameleon , inhabiting every role he plays . i have not seen him give a bad performance . the writing is inspired , with amazing dialogue , and well written situations and characters . the ending is explosive and leaves no loose ends . the film itself is very well paced , with superb editing and is also very stylish . it also has more depth than say , Cop Land , a similar though inferior effort . you can't go wrong with this movie .
astounding in every way ( be warned though , it is brutally violent and bloody )	i thought this movie was absolutely brilliant . it's set during the time of the American revolution . Benjamin Martin ( Mel Gibson ) is a simple farmer who does not want to get involved , as he doesn't believe in war . in short , he's a pacifist . that it , until one day a sadistic act of violence is perpetrated against his family . Martin transforms from the meek man he once was , to a man on a mission : to get revenge against the British in general , and the one Britsh officer in particular responsible . so , he becomes the leader of the Colonials . there's a lot of great names in here , and i won't mention them all . but i will mention Jason Isaacs , brilliant as a sadistic British Colonel and Chris Cooper as an American Colonel . i mention Cooper because you are guaranteed to see great acting from him . this movie is quite bloody and brutally violent . there are no punches pulled here . if you have a weak stomach shy away from this one . otherwise , for a war themed movie , i highly recommend it . one of the greatest movies i have ever seen . 10 + + + / 10
soldiers on routine training exercise find out they are not alone	this movie rocked . the acting was great , the dialogue was good and it was very suspenseful . also the action scenes were relentless . so far it has the most realistic werewolves of any movie i have seen to date . the twist ending was brilliant and i never saw it coming . i was told by a friend that this movie was awesome , but that didn't prepare me for what i was about to watch . i believe the filmmakers had a very limited budget , but they did amazing things with what they had . i can't say enough good things about this movie . as for those people who thought " dog soldiers " was garbage , and i'm sure they're in the minority , i just can't understand it . they must have been watching a different movie . this is in my opinion a movie that should not be missed . . brilliant .
sequel just as thrilling and exciting as the 1st movie	as the sequel to 10 . 5 , this movie is a worthy follow up . the action scenes are just as intense and spectacular , maybe even more so . there are less of the action scenes , more scenes on the human interest aspect and how people helped each other through all the crises . however , i did not find the movie boring at all . i thought the more dramatic scenes were well done . for me the movie fast paced , and also thrilling and exciting , as well as suspenseful . those people that bashed the first film for it lack of scientific accuracy and also bashed the CGI , should not even have watched this 1 , but i have no doubt , there are some who did . for me , 10 . 5 : Apocolypse rates as high as the 1st 1 , all things considered .
1939 masterpiece	this is another of John Steinbeck's novels brought to the screen . i thought it was well done . Burgess Meredith plays George , and Lon Chaney Jr . plays his travelling companion Lenny . Lenny is what you would call very slow and George has too look out for him and keep him out of trouble . he is a giant of man with the intellect of a child . the two men are forced to keep moving when George does get into trouble . they arrive at a ranch , and end up working . George has big dreams for the two of them . this movie is whimsical in tone at times , but also dark and tragic . Chaney is brilliant as Lenny . the dialogue is very good as is the direction . for me , Of Mice and Men is a
wow . outstanding ! ! ! nerve shredding tension ! ! !	OK , first things 1st . this movie is almost certainly not completely accurate historically , so if that's what you expect , you'll be disappointed . but if you can put that aside , you should love this movie . anyway , on with the show . this movie takes place during the 2nd World War . it focuses on a small group of Americans and a very important mission , one that would eventually turn the tide of the War . virtually all the action takes place at sea , and i gotta say , the tension in this thing nearly wrecked me . there were times i couldn't breathe and other times i thought i was = as gonna explode . if you like nail-biting down to the millisecond suspense , i can't see how you wouldn't love this one . there's not a lot of room for character development , but that's a good thing in this case . in fact , it may have ruined the movie . it's so well directed , i still can't believe . as a matter of fact as i'm writing this , my nerves are still shredded . this brilliant film was directed by Jonathon Mostow , who also wrote the story and the screenplay . He also directed and wrote both the story and screenplay for " Breakdown " another really good film , but nothing compared to this . anyway , i could go on forever , but for sheer tension and suspense , this is hands down , the best movie of its type i have seen , and i have sen some great ones . " U-571 " is off the charts for this rating system , so i'll give it 10 + + + / 10
simply brilliant	this is the first film starring the Beatles , and it's a good one . it's shot like a documentary , but it's not . i'm pretty sure there is some add libbing involved , but i think the film is mostly scripted . it's very funny , and has great dialogue . all four of the Beatles star here , and all are very good . their comedic timing is really good , and they all have some very witty one liners . Richard Lester directed . he is also the director ( officially ) a of Superman 2 and he directed Superman 3 but it's the acting and writing that take centre stage here . this is one of thee most enjoyable musical / comedies i have seen . in fact it's one of the most enjoyable movies i've seen in awhile . it's simply brilliant . and this is coming from someone who's not a big Beatles fan .
there's a reason why it's # 8 on the top 250	i'm glad i finally got around to this film . it's currently ranked # 8 in the top 250 here . i can see why . it's certainly an experience watching it . it's a very deep film , with a lot going on . it's very powerful , yet subtle . it's touching at times , sad at others times , and tragic at times . it's been referenced many times in movies TV shows , and more . it and it's legendary performances have become a part of pop culture . the acting is stellar . jack Nicholson won the academy award for his performance , and i'd say deservedly so . Louise Fletcher also won for her performance . she is mesmerizing . there are other great performances as well . i didn't recognize him for a while , but Danny Devito put in a great performance . there's also Christopher Lloyd in his first feature film . i also really liked the performance of Will Sampson . Brad Dourif in his his first credited film also really impressed me , as did Sydney Lassic . there are many other great performances here , too numerous to mention . the point is , i really like the film . beside the acting , it was also very well written , very clever . as it ended , i realized i was really moved by it all . some people might think this movie is overrated , and to each their own . but , if you haven't seen it yet , i recommend you watch with an open mind and draw your own conclusions . and don't let the running time of 133 minutes discourage you . it will ( unfortunately ) be over before you know it . for me , One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest is
one of the better horror films i've seen	i'm truly amazed at the low rating ( 5 . / 10 ) this movie has here . i thought it was outstanding . it was well made , had dark humour , and great dialogue . plus there are more than a few twists and turns to keep you guessing . the tension is high throughout , there's plenty of gore for all you gore hounds . the babe factor is pretty high in this one . there is some nudity and some strong language , but i think it was appropriate for the movie . for me , it added some realism and authenticity . there are some good actors in this one , all putting in good performances . i thought the CGI was good enough . but honestly , i was more focused on the story , which i thought was really good . the whole movie has a haunting air pretty much from the get go , and i thought the opening credits were superb in setting the mood . plus i liked the ironic ending . overall , i thought this was a fun movie . i couldn't find anything wrong with it . for me , House on Haunted Hill is a
a terrifying masterpiece	the original The Omen , with gregory peck and lee remick , is a masterpiece of pure terror . possibly the most terrifying film ever made . gregory peck stars as robert thorne , a high level diplomat and lee remick stars as his wife katherine . when katherine miscarries their baby , robert swaps the dead child for another child from an orphanage without his wife's knowledge . not long after , sinister things begin to happen , like people dying horrible deaths under suspicious and bizarre circumstances . without giving too much away , thorne eventually discovers his child is the Antichrist . it is the events that lead up to this point which are truly terrifying . peck is brilliant as the atheist whose beliefs are challenged until he can no longer deny the truth . lee remick is great as thorne's wife who has her suspicions there is something terribly wrong with her son , but she simply dismisses these fears as paranoia . the musical score done by the late , great jerry goldsmith and aided by a choir chanting in Latin , in all the appropriate places is brlliant , adding a feeling of foreboding and doom throughout the movie , which sends chills up your spine . no other movie in recent memory can match The Omen for sheer terror . it should be noted that The Omen did not rely on gore or computer effects to achieve this level of terror but rather on pure psychological suspense and emotion . no movie in modern time can match The Omen for sheer terror . this movie is nothing short of brilliant .
hysterical	i thought this show was hysterical . yes , it is offensive , crude and vulgar , but so what . the show does seem to make fun of white people ( which i happen to be ) but that's exactly what it is - - fun . people need to get over themselves and stop being so uptight . besides , a lot of the jokes pretty much reflect how many white people behave . if you can't take a joke , then turn off all your TVs and hide yourself in a cave . i don't think the jokes are cruel or mean , either . anyway , i laughed my butt of so much i had tears running down my eyes . David Alan Grier is the star of the show and plays most of the characters . i think he's very funny . i'm gonna try and catch this show every time it's on . it's the only show on The Comedy Network ( here in Canada ) which i have actually found worth watching .
something for everyone ( outstanding )	if you want a movie that both kids and adults will enjoy , this is the movie for you . it's a cartoon based on the Recess TV show . it has jokes and references both kids and adults will understand , and some that only kids will get , others only adults will get . but the main thing is , it's immensely entertaining . it's very funny at times , with some slapstick and some funny dialogue . it also has interesting characters . plus the story is good . it's easy enough for kids to follow , and not so simple that adults will be disinterested . it also ( without hitting anyone over the head ) shows the value of working together to solve a problem . it's definitely family friendly with nothing that should be considered offensive , but it does have a bit of rude humour . for me , just out of sheer entertainment value , i give Recess : School's Out a
more sci-fi / action than horror , but a better movie than the origninal	although Aliens is not the iconic film that alien is , it is still a better film . this film adds a new element by having multiple aliens rather than just the one . it improves upon the look of the creatures , and while maintaining high suspense , adds more action . this film is less character driven than the first . the characters are more developed though and there is more of a group dynamic going on . we have some of the characters fighting each other , as well as the alien threat . the pacing is a bit better in this film . Obviously , this film is not responsible for the rebirth of horror / sci fi , since the original lays claim to that . but it is , in its own right a classic and will be remembered for a long time to come .
absolutely brilliant independent Canadian horror / suspense film	wow . this film is fuing brilliant . as far as the horror / suspense genre goes , this may be the best i have ever seen . there is lots of suspense , some blood and guts and some truly terrifying moments . this is one intense movie . in fact , the tension is almost unbearable at times . if you're even a little bit squeamish , prepare yourself before watching this movie . aside from being a brilliant movie , it is also very unique and inventive . it does not follow the typical formula for these types of movies . also , the acting is superb . if you want a refreshing take on the horror / suspense genre , this is your movie . this movie is much more story and character based than others of the genre . it relies more on psychological terror than on gore . ( though it does have its share of gore ) it's an independent Canadian film , but it ranks as good as most of what the system churns out . for me , " The Dark Hours " is a perfect
notes on a masterpiece	this movie is definite 10 . i don't remember when i saw a movie as powerful and gut wrenching . Cate Blanchett and Judi Dench are 2 titans in the movie industry , and it shows in this movie . both actresses put on an acting clinic , with 2 Tour De Force performances . i won't give too much away , but lets just say as psychological dramas go , they don't come much better than this . the villain in this piece would have Hannibal Lector for dinner ( with some Fava beans and a good chianti , of course ) that is just my opinion of course . i know the character of Lector is held sacred by some . but watch this film and judge for yourself . for me , like i said , " Notes on a Scandal " is a
intelligent thriller	i thought his was a very intelligent , well written thriller . the music puts you on edge from the beginning . the movie has a great dark atmosphere . there are enough red herrings to keep you guessing , and some great intensity . this is a very dark , disturbing movie and is also very graphic at times . to me , this was much better than your standard crime drama / mystery / thriller . i liked Angelina Jolie's performance as an FBI profiler called in to help develop a profiler on a prolific serial killer who has been working for twenty years . he performance is very subdued , almost sublime , and it works , in my opinion . the best serial killer movie ever made , in my mind , is Copycat , at least so far . this one isn't quite as intense , but it's still a great movie . Like the Bone Collector , also starring Angelina Jolie ( and Denzel Washington ) i'd have to rate taking Lives a
a very fitting and great end to the series , which recaptures the " Rocky " spirit and magic	this is a great way to end the " Rocky " franchise , considering how weak number 5 was . there is some real depth to this entry , and Stallone put in a very heartfelt performance . he can really act , given the right material . Stallone wrote the script , and it is a good script . the movie is much more realistic than i thought it would be . given the premise ( an aging ex champ in his 50's fighting the current champ , a man 30 years his junior ) the movie would seem absurd , yet it Isn't . you'd have to watch it to understand . when first hearing they were making another installment , i scoffed , thinking it would be ridiculous and stupid . for some reason , though , i decided to watch it , and i am glad i did . this is easily the best installment since number 2 , which i believe was the best up to this point . I think " Rocky Balboa " is probably as good as 2 , and it really recaptures the magic of the earlier entries . this movie is very sentimental , in good way . Stallone makes it inspiring without being preachy . my vote for " Rocky Balboa " is
the ultimate vigilante film	Meet Paul Kersey , ( Charles Bronson ) mild mannered architect and liberal . Kersey Believes that the criminals are merely a product of being underprivileged and deserve some slack . spoiler aheadHowever , Kersey's views change one day , when his wife is brutally murdered and his daughter is raped by three thugs . his daughter has been so traumatized , she is nearly catatonic . Kersey then decides to fight back against the criminals . he becomes a one man wrecking crew , killing muggers rapists and others . as a result of his efforts , street crime dramatically decreases , and people begin to feel more safe . naturally the police dept can't have that , a vigilante going around blowing away the human waste , lower crime rate or not . never mind the fact that the police have been completely ineffective in curbing crime . in fact , their efforts have actually resulted in crime increasing . this movie illustrates the helplessness the average woman / man feels in the face of crime . it also shows the ineffectiveness of the legal system . the legal system seems to favour the criminal , and the bleeding heart liberal mouthpieces are always on hand spouting crap about how the criminals right are being violated , while no one seems to care about the victim . and it also shows how the police and the legal system are not concerned with citizen safety , but are worried about citizens taking matters into their own hands . see , the problem with the legal system is it bound by rules , regulations and basic bureaucratic bullsht . the system is useless unless your are a criminal . how can you fight criminals when they have no rules or regulations to bind them . and the other problem is the system is reactive , not proactive , so once you've been shot , stabbed , raped , or otherwise beaten or killed , then the police will help you . now think about that for a minute . when you actually need them , they are seldom there . ( i should qualify this by saying there are some decent caring people who care about the victims , but they are not as well funded as the other side ) in certain countries ( Canada , for instance , you are not even allowed to defend yourself in your own home . you will most likely be arrested and charged . on top of that , the scumbag who victimized you can actually sue you for their injuries . what the fK is up with that ? so , even if only in a movie , its nice to see the sht sack knuckle dragging wastes of skin get blown away . now , " Death Wish " was very controversial when it came out in 1974 , due to its graphic violence and language . i still actually find it hard to watch in some scenes . i wouldn't call it an entertaining film , but it was definitely an important film , the way it brought home the reality of crime and its effects . based on its importance as a film , i'd have to give it .
a riveting tale of sexual role reversal	disclosure is a refreshing film . it takes battle of the sexes and reverses it . here we have a film of role reversal , with the dominant , sexually aggressive woman against the weaker , more submissive male . it works beautifully in this film . i normally can't stand demi moore , but she is brilliantly cast here as the conniving seductress . equally well cast is Micheal douglas as the victim of her seductions . the basic plot is : a high level computer company specialist ( who is married ) finds out he will be working for a former lover . she initiates a sexual encounter between the two , rather forcefully . he resists and puts an end to the encounter . she becomes enraged , and vows revenge . she sues him for sexual harassment . he files a counter claim of sexual harassment against her . and there you have it . the stage is set for plenty of suspense and twists and turns , with a surprising revelation and a terrific plot twist ( which is down to the wire ) to end the film . I own this film and have watched it several times , and i'm riveted each time . out of 10 brilliant
terrific boxing movie about much more than boxing	i'm not sure why this movie has such a low rating ( ) , but it doesn't deserve it . by the way , this is not the Ridley Scott directed epic starring Russel Crowe . it's something entirely different . this movie is vastly entertaining . it's more than just a boxing movie . it's about heart and determination and beating the odds . and the power of friendship . usually theses kinds of movies are schmaltzy and sappy , with that rah , rah , rah attitude . you know , we can all succeed and everything is hunky dory . but somehow , this movie avoids that clichd feel and succeeds . maybe because there's also some realism within it . there is a heartbreaking scene in the movie which brings some sobriety to the picture . the fight scenes are well done and quite brutal at times . the movie also has a good soundtrack , with some great songs , which really elevate the emotional aspect of the movie , but it's not overdone . overall , i liked it a lot . for me " Gladiator " is a terrific film . I give it a
great , and thrilling escapist fun ( exactly what it's meant to be )	i just don't understand it . this movie has a very low rating and many people are bashing it for not being scientifically accurate . but who really gives a crap if it's scientifically accurate . it's not a documentary , it's a fictional movie meant to thrill and entertain . and in theta regard it succeeds , in my opinion . the action scenes are spectacular and the special effects / CGI are very impressive , not just for a TV movie , but for movies in general . true , CGI is not completely real looking and may never be , but so what . it's escapist entertainment , not reality . i watch or go to a movie like this one to escape reality , not for a history , or science lesson . for me , this movie is entertaining and very thrilling . i was on the edge of my seat a lot . at times the action seems unrelenting and overwhelming , but in a good way . i love the feeling of my nerves and whole body on overdrive . it means the movie did what it is supposed to do . if you want a history or science lesson , go watch a documentary on those subjects . if you don't like these kinds of movies don't watch them . i saw this movie last night and my nerves were still on fire long after . as a result , i had to wait until today to write this review . i love this movie . it is the best disaster movie i have seen yet . 10 . 5 gets / 10 from me
not sure who the movie is marketed to	i didn't think this was a good movie . i can't pinpoint exactly why , but i can tell you i was bored out of my skull . it was much too slow moving , and i didn't find the gags funny at all . i'm guessing children would like this movie , but i think even most teenagers would be bored , but i could be wrong . truthfully i'm not even sure who the movie was marketed to . i mean , there are some funny cartoon moments that kids will probably find hysterical . and yet a lot a lot of the content is very adult oriented , especially a lot of sexual innuendo . however , i think it would be too slow for many adults . visually it's nice to look at , but that is not enough to maintain interest for very long . if you have kids who are preteen or younger , they will like this movie , yet it may not be suitable for them . i certainly wouldn't call this movie family friendly . i would have given it a PG-13 rating , at the very least , maybe even MA for mature audiences ( 14 + . ) anyway , parents should really use their discretion with this movie . overall , i think Who Framed Roger Rabbit is a .
one of the best sci / fi comedy movies ever made	this is a very clever and witty movie . it takes a serious subject , such as Alien Invasion and turns it on it's head . there will be a lot of laughter involved in the watching of this movie . at least there should be . the whole premise behind it is absurd , intentionally so . there's a lot of irony in this movie . Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith Play the two main Men in Black character . Jones plays agent K ( Kay ) and Smith plays Agent J ( Jay ) K is the straitlaced veteran who reluctantly trains a newcomer , Who takes the nickname or code name K ( Smith ) Jones and Smith work brilliantly together . Jones as the strait man and Smith as his comic foil . these two have some great comic chemistry . whoever had the idea to pair these two up deserves medal . i don't think they could have found two more perfectly suited actors on the planet . but amid all the hilarity , their is some serious stuff happening , and that is handled very well . even the serious scenes are played for laughs . this is in my top five in comedies . brilliant .
great action , clever writing , great one liners = one great movie	this movie really impressed me . it's clever , well written , and funny . it also has some great , memorable one liners . oh , there's also a ton of action . putting Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren in the same movie really works . add in the beautiful bombshell Ally walker and you have a really , really great film . this is so far my favourite Van Damme film . i really had a blast watching this thing . Van Damme even shows some acting ability . some of the expressions on his face and his deadpan delivery were very funny . Lundgren had quite a few funny one liners , and did OK in the acting dept . Ally Walker was also funny at times . some of the fight scenes are pretty good , too . normally , i don't expect a lot from a Van Damme flick , but i have to give the filmmaker's credit for this one . the crafted a great movie . i can find no fault with this movie . it's just so entertaining . maybe i'm crazy , but " Universal Soldiers " gets a from me .
Eastwood's's gritty opus of the old west	at the time i watched this movie , i hadn't been very interested in Western movies . but because this one was directed by Clint Eastwood and had a star studded cast , i decided to give it a try . boy , i'm glad i did . i really enjoyed the movie . Eastwood also stars in the movie , along with Morgan freeman , Gene Hackman , Richard Harris and Saul Rubinek , to name just a few . each of these A one actors are at the top of their game here . Eastwood crafts a gritty , dark version of the old west during a harsh and unforgiving time . the movie is brutally violent and unflinching in its portrayal of the time . some may find it depressing , and it does have that air to it , but i wasn't bothered by that aspect of it . i got caught up in the story and action . i also liked the dialogue . i thought it was well written . this movie definitely has epic written all over it . after watching this movie was responsible for my becoming interested in the Western genre . no small feat , believe me . " Unforgiven " is a
i totally enjoyed it	maybe i'm nuts but i fully enjoyed this movie . the biggest reason for me was just how fun it is . it's written with such wit and sarcasm , which is great . plus , it also shows the athleticism of the girls in gymnastics . it doesn't hurt that the film pokes less than gentle fun at both the judges in that sport and in another well known sport . sure you could say the movie is clichd , but i thought it worked . it didn't pound you over the head with a sledgehammer to get a message across . i laughed virtually all through . and there's also some hot women , which is a also a good thing . but these women also have acting ability . true , were not talking about an academy award winning movie , but , being funny and able to zing off one liners , is in my mind , no less difficult than being serous . anyway , after all that rambling , i give Stick It a perfect 10 , because i forgot about life's problems and felt good while watching and after .
Enter the mind of a serial killer	warning : if you choose to watch this movie , know that you will enter on a dark and twisted journey . David Fincher directs this film , which concerns a serial killer who executes people , using the seven deadly sins as justification . though there are some horrific and graphic images here , there real genius of this movie is it's implied horror . this movie will leave you with an impact long after the end credits have rolled . David Fincher directs this intense psychological suspense thriller . Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt play two detectives on the trail of the killer . Freeman plays veteran Detective Lt . William Somerset , on the verge of retirement , after this case . Pitt plays rookie detective Detective David Mills . Kevin Spacey also stars in a powerful performance that is mesmerizing . this is one of the best movies of this genre i have seen so far . if you are not affected by this movie , i'd be surprised . for me , Se7en is easily a
