Cinematic excrement	Years after a series of unexplained murder shuts a boarding house down , James , a practicing telekinetic , inherits the house and re-opens it to let some nubile young ladies movie in . But the murders begin anew . Originally made as a comedy , but edited as a straight horror film , this is one ungodly terrible movie , no matter what the genre . ANY film that can make both Attack of the Killer Tomatoes and Manos look like Shakespere in comparison definitely has a few weak points to say the least . Absolutely dreadful dialog , atrociously wooden acting , & mind-blowingly bizarre direction all conspire to put this flick atop the dung heap of cinema . Yet as awful as this movie is ( and YES it really IS that bad ) , Code Red does a great job with the DVD . Code Red DVD Extras : Introduction by Writer / Director John Wintergate ; Commentary by Wintergate & Kalassu ( moderated by film historians ) Lee Christian & Jeff McCay ; Interviews with Wintergate and Kalassu ; 2 original trailers for this film ; and Trailers for Sole Survivor , Nightmare , Can I do it till I need Glasses ? , the Dead Pit , & the Chilling
Move along there's nothing to see here	A group of human looking aliens going to Earth to eat crash land on a planet of prehistoric beasts instead where they all eat physcedelic mushrooms and act retarded . Padded with footage from " Planet of the Dinosuars " and horrible jokes this is definitely one to miss . The acting is atrocious as well , and while this isn't as bad as " Chickboxer " ( what movie can be ? ) This is still pretty awful repugnant stuff . It's 90 minute running time feels like an eternity and you will likely be cursing life so do yourself a huge favor and just move on , skip this crappy film , there's nothing to see here . My Grade F DVD Extras : 17 Behind the scenes featurette ; 7 minute Into the black featurette ; Jessica Mills reporting ; Stills gallery ; and original trailer
no insight into anything	This 7 minute , 27 second featurette can be found on the DVD of " Gone in 60 Seconds " , in it Jerry Bruckheimer talks about his not-so-diverse type of films such as " Con Air " , " the Rock " , " Crimson Tide " , " Enemy of the State " , " Armageddon " , " Coyote Ugly " , " Remember the Titans " , " Pearl Harbor " and of course " Gone in 60 Seconds " , if you're thinking to yourself . Hey wait a second that's a lot of movies to talk about given that it's only about 7 and a half minutes long . You'd be right and this featurette doesn't give any insight into anything whatsoever . As Jay Sherman would likely say : " It Stinks "
Stick to soft-core fluff , Terry	A group of parapyschologists get a job in an haunted old mansion . Media Blasters released this in R-rated & unrated versions . I choose to get the unrated version , naturally . When Media Blasters first annouced they planned to produce original movies , I was hopeful , as Media Blasters , while not my favorite distributer of Dvds ( that would be Blue Underground ) , are still up there . To say I was let down is a bit of an understatement . This piece of cinematic waste was written & directed by Terry West , known for his soft-core parodies ( ie . Spider-babe , Lord of the G-strings , etc . . ) . This movie reminded me of his soft-core flicks , not for it's sex scenes ( those are laughably bad in this one ) , but for the insanely lousy acting . Horror fans deserve SO MUCH better . On a bright note , the girl who plays Erin is a vegetarian , luckily for her her role ( and this film ) has NO meat to it whatsoever . Dvd Extras : Behind the scenes ; Interviews with Caroline Hoermann and Aldo Sambrell ( with his past , he deserved much better then this movie , in my opinion ) ; Teaser trailer ; stills gallery ; Trailers for " the Virgin of Nuremberg " ( with no sound ) , " Zombi 2 " , " Faceless " , and " Blood Feast 2 " Eye candy : pretty much all the actresses get fully nude at some point . Easter Egg : Highlight the Teaser in the extras menu , then press left for a live clip of the band " Buckethead "
here's another 1 ( my score )	Years ago , Sara , a young girl witnessed her parents being murdered , now as an adult she suffers from various mental ailments ( did I mention she has an imaginary friend ? ) This film lulls the viewer , not into a sense of tension , mind you , but rather a sense of sleepiness . Deathly boring , I found it hard to sit through as I could feel my eyelids growing heavier and heavier with each endless minute of mindless prattle and supposed ' mystery ' . Is Sara going crazy ? or is it the paranormal ? A better question would be , Who cares ? And the answer to that , no one . No one at all . Skip this film , save yourself some time better suited to do other more worthwhile tasks .
If i wanted to watch a home movie , I'd make one myself	This 17 minute documentary on the making of the Bruce Campbell produced Indy " Hatred of a Minute " can be found on the Anchor Bay released DVD edition of said movie . It contains rehearsals , and basically the cast and crew just acting silly over the course of a seemingly pretty typical day . It doesn't go into detail , just shows what happens . A little on the mundane side I hesitate to recommend it all . It just comes off as a home movie . And for all intents and purposes it pretty much is just that . Also despite the listing Bruce Campbell is not in it .
When being a X-box 360 achievement whore strikes back	Let's get this out of the way right of the bat when it comes to my x-box 360 , I'm a self-professed achievement whore ( for those not in the know , Achievement points are worthless little points that you get for accomplishing various tasks of any given x-box 360 video game ) Well I play any game , any time to accrue said points . Long story short ( too late ) , Jumper is the first game I couldn't bring myself to finish . The game was horrendous . Sloppy controls , awful graphics , a clunky storyline that will have those that haven't seen the movie it's based on scratching their heads , and above all it wasn't the least bit fun to play . This has to be one of the worst games on not only the 360 , but any current generation system ( or even last gen for that matter ) Avoid at all costs ! !
there's sophomoric humor , there's brain-dead humor . . . and then there's this	When 5 writers get credit for one awful teen movie parody , you're in trouble . When the Director of said movie also did not one , but two Ellen DeGeneres specials you're in real big trouble . By the way , why parody teen movies when most of them seem to be parodies themselves ? Not Another Teen Movie ( or NATM for morons who can't spell or just love acronyms ) is one of the most brain-dead " comedies " I have ever had to misfortune of watching . And " Freddy got Fingered " came out the same year . 2001 had way too much tragedy and we went to the movies to help us forget our woes and THEY give us this horse manure . I openly weep . Why Mr . T had ANYthing to do with this I have not a clue . There's more movie after the credits , but if you can make it that far , you're a better man than I . My Grade : DVD Extras : Commentary by Joel Gallen and Mike Bender ; Second commentary by Chyler Leigh , Jaime Pressly , Eric Olsen , and Eric Jungmann ; pop-up factoids ; Teen movie IQ test ; 18 deleted / extended scenes ( with more topless Areola ) ; 3 production featurettes ; ' Car Ride ' short film ; the unrated ' Tainted Lovie ' music video by Manson ; Audition reels ; stills gallery ; TV Spots ; Promo spots ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " The New Guy " , " The Animal " , " Saving Silverman " , " Big Daddy " , and " Loser " ; and 2 Easter Eggs ( a marriage proposal and a few takes on the kissing scene ) Eye Candy : Cerina Vincent as Areola is nude whenever sees on screen , and a few breast and butt shots from various extras
brainless action without the action part of that equation	Bo Laramie , a rising Hollywood star , unaccustomed to the EVIL paparazzi and their EVIL ways , have to combat the EVILness when he stops in the middle of a busy highway and causes a fatal car accident , but only because of those EVIL paparazzi , did I forget to say they're EVIL ? ? Well don't worry , this movie will pound that point into your head too . It's hard to know where to start with this one . Do I rag on how some things can be painted black and what , but Paparazzi are NOT high on that list . Do I mention Dennis Farina's poor man's Columbo impersonation in the film ? or do I talk about the excessive and totally needless reliance on celebrity cameos ( Vince Vaughn , Chris Rock , Matthew McConaughey , Mel Gibson himself , anyone from the E ! channel ) . Speaking of E ! , do I mention the laughable sequence when they're portrayed as hard hitting news journalists ? Or do I just offer the cursory statements of how awful the acting , story , and " plot logic " were ? As you can see , I'm in quite the pickle here . So many bad things to point out , so little time . I'll merely settle on telling you that the movie stinks and leave it at that . I think I've gotten my point across somehow .
among the worst of the zombie sub-genre has to offer	50 years after a zombie infiltration a small group of nomadic survivors are still fighting the undead ghouls who've gotten smarter and kidnap nubile young women to feed off of . Two brothers save some girls from the ghouls , and one of the guys falls in love with one of them who he nicknames Star . Trouble ensues when the zombies follow them back to their camp . It's been awhile since I've seen a David Prior film ( 1986's Killer Workout ) So it was time to put my prejudice of that film aside , perhaps he took a turn for the better within the intervening two decades . I always give people the benefit of the doubt . After watching this movie , he good knew is he did take a turn , the bad news is it's definitely not for the better . This film is amateur hour from start to finish . Grade school special effects , combines with hideously stunted dialog , terrible acting & shoddy camera work . This makes his previous Killer Workout look like a masterpiece by comparison . DVD Extra : trailer for this film
a bargain basement karate kid	Barry , ( Jonathan Brandis ) an asthmatic daydreaming loser who wants to learn karate to protect himself from the school beating ( just like his fantasy man , Chuck Norris ) , that he in all likelihood brings upon himself by being an unlikable spaz . Chuck's brother Aaron , is a horrible director and this film made want to curl up in a fetal position and just cry for inflicting my eyes with this horrid excuse for a movie . The great Mako is wasted here and can ANYone tell me why Joe Piscopo keeps getting jobs when everything he does is horrible ? ? this film is among the crappiest movies I've ever seen and they should just burn any existing copies . I wouldn't be surprised if this and " Ladybugs " in all likelihood contributed to the main actor's suicide .
simply atrocious	Shot on the ( very ) cheap , the futuristic spaghetti western about various people trying to get their hands on a cargo of something is marred by hideously awful acting , bland generic dialog , laughably sad special effects , and absolutely nothing that could feasibly be construed as entertaining in the least . If you only had 24 hours to live , then and ONLY then consider watching this because it'll make 90 minutes feel like an eternity . My god , I'd prefer almost any of those crappy ' originals ' on the Sci-Fi channel to this piece of garbage . Everyone involved in this production should be just hanging their respective heads in shame right about now . ( and YES that last part is a joke , just to fill the required 10 lines )
poor , poor Hauser	After the offspring of an inbred redneck union of brother and sister is ditched in the fields of nowhere , a fellow God fearing redneck finds her and she grow up as a pet would . Twenty years later , a group of young adults on vacation in the mountains find that trouble is a brewing from the town folk hicks who are addicted to psychedelic eggs ( which one of the gang partakes in ) after an altercation in a strip-club . The film also boasts a cameo by the great Wings Hauser as Wings Hauser ( DON'T call him Hasselhoff ) , don't get your hopes up as he's in it all of three minutes ( if that ) Wow , this movie was extremely bad ( even for a Troma film ) not one character acted one iota resembling anything a normal person would act like . Without relating to any of them in any way , shape , or form , it made the hour and a half go by extremely slowly and i found myself looking at my watch on numerous occasions . I'm one of those people who HAVE to watch a movie till it's finish once I start it . On occasions such as this , that trait is quite the curse indeed . As for Mr . Hauser , well we all need money from time to time , so I won't hold it against him . . . . . just this once . Eye Candy : Natalie Hays & Rachel Wagner both provide the T & A ; an extra gets topless
Only you can prevent watching crappy films about forest fires	Much more akin to " Dawson's Creek " than anything close to " the Breakfast Club ( that plot outline is way off about that ) . The film start's off no doubt pleasing the coveted " Dawson's Creek " demographic of gay men and younger teen girls by having Rider Strong ( Boy Meets World ) running around butt naked . Not the greatest start for a straight guy , but I was willing to give it a chance . Silly me , I thought it was gonna get better . Nope , not at all . This craptastic ' she wants him , he wants another girl who's dating another guy who she doesn't want ' melodramatic load ' independent film about a super small forest fire and a forest ranger ( William Russ of " Boy meets World " again ) trying to find out who did it , is so asinine that I hated myself for watching what , for all intents and purposes , should have been an ABC after school special . Where I saw it : Starz on Demand ( available until September 22nd , 2005 )
Yup we're back in dreaded Ulli Lommel	David Berkowitz , son of Sam , ( played in a near-catatonic state by Yogi Joshi ) recounts his story to his public defender , a tale that gets extremely repetitive fairly quickly . This deathly boring film by Ulli Lommel takes an somewhat avent-garde approach to the true life crime story , but all that does it make the redundancies all the more unbearable ( Berkowitz kills , scene of satanic cult , talks to public defender , wanders around looking vacant , repeat , repeat , repeat ) Also this film is not even noteworthy to those that are fascinated by the case , as the facts are played with loosely by Mr . Lommel . Speaking of which , this guy has made what , 5 or 6 ' based on true life ' serial killer movies so far ( ? ! ? ! ! ) One would think he'd actually learn to make one that's even competent , alas perhaps it's just out of his grasp , poor guy . . . But he still shouldn't churn out such awful product .
so bad	The film starts with a mail woman ( Kitten Natavidad of Russ Meyers fame , who thankfully isn't nearly as worn-down and haggard looking as she is in " The Double-D Avenger ) , spying on the amazing Ginger Lynn being screwed by Harry Reems who won't stop saying dumb s # @ t , so the scene is not erotic . The couple is mailed two tickets for an island stay in a mansion where an unknown person is killing off the guests in this porn who ( cares ) done it . For a film that was filmed during porn's " Golden Age " ( albiet towards the end ) this film is still a disappointment . Plus , seeing Lisa De Leeuw with the foreknowledge that she died from AIDS is very depressing . Furthermore seeing a man masturbate using a turkey is not appealing in the least . My Porn
see girl run , see girl throw up , see girl hate Ice cream , see audience member fall asleep	I was Luke-warm to the Director's " Rubber's Lover " and have yet to see " Pinocchio 964 " ( I do own it , so it's just a question of when I can find the time to view it ) . But I digress , this short film is less of a story , than a series of random events just strung together and tedious events at that . A crazy girl running , throwing up , spitting out ice cream , screaming , etc , etc . . Note to self , when live action people throw up for minutes on end it's silly , but when puppets do it ( Ie . " Team America " ) it's hilarious . This 12 minute short film can be found on Unearthed's DVD of " Rubber's Lover "
can be found buried in the kitty litter	In a far away Galaxy is a planet called Ceta . It's native people worship cats . But the dog people wage war upon these feline loving people and they have no choice but to go to Earth and grind people up for food . This is one of the stupidest f # @ k ! ng ideas for a movie I've seen . Leave it to Ted Mikels to make a movie more incompetent than the already low standard he set in previous films . It's like he enjoying playing in a celluloid game of Limbo . How low can he go ? The only losers in the scenario are US the viewer . Mr . Mikels and his silly little handlebar mustache actually has people who STILL buy this crap . DVD Extras : Commentary by Ted Mikels ; the Story behind the Making of ( 9 and a half minutes ) ; 17 minutes , 15 seconds of Behind the scenes footage ; Ted Mikels filmography ; and Trailers for " The Worm Eaters " " Girl in Gold Boots " , " the Doll Squad " , " Ten Violent Women " ( featuring nudity ) , " Blood Orgy of the She Devils " , & " the Corpse Grinders "
Them equals crap	There are a vast multitude of sub-par crappy shot on digital yawn-fests littering videostore shelfs , and this is definitely One of Them . The story of a cult of dead teenagers attempting to turn other teenagers into One of Them is so incompetent in ever single aspect , that just watching One of Them try to act is a daunting task indeed . One of Them will put you to sleep before long with it's inane dull story , it's bad special ed effects , and it's apparent complete disdain for the hapless viewer . Not doubt that One of Them is putrid . If it seems like I've written One of Them too much in my review , you have no clue until you see One of Them . If you were to take a shot EVERY time someone said One of them or asked " are you One of Them ? " , you'd have to have your stomach pumped before the movie ends , which ironically is a better fate than watching One of Them . Where I saw it : Starz on Demand ( available until September 29th )
Bleh Vs . Suck	Ecks ( Antonio Banderas ) must join with his mortal enemy Sever ( Lucy Liu ) to take down a mutual enemy . First of all imagine being a ' bad ass ' FBI agent and having a stringy frail woman as your arch-nemesis . That would be akin to being Sherlock Holmes , but Moriarty being a spastic mongoloid . Setting aside the horribly politically correct BS plot , the movie itself is a mess in every single conceivable way . This should be taught in Film making 101 as a textbook example of what NOT to do in a movie . Horribly clichéd characters , inane dialog , and even lame ' action ' all make this one to not only miss , but actively run away from if you ever see it coming on cable . My Grade : F DVD Extras : HBO Making Of featurette ; A lame Rock , paper , scissors-type game ; Cast & crew biographies ; and Theatrical trailer
so bad it's . . . well bad	An Avent-garde nightmarish , extremely low-budget " film " that has delusions of grandeur . Hard to sit through . I get the message that child abuse is wrong . Wow big revelation . I had no clue it was wrong before viewing this . Yes that's sarcasm . DON'T watch this " film " if you're offended by nudity of either the male or female gender . DON'T watch it if you're the least bit squeamish . DON'T watch it if you care about acting . On second thought just DON'T watch it period . My grade : D-DVD Extras : making the movie , the premiere , interview with Kristie Bowersock , deleted scenes , movie stills , Director's commentary , 2 versions of the teaser trailer , music video by The Azoic , & a classroom video experiment
no one wants to hear strippers talk . . . NO ON	A 4 minute campy tour of San Francisco gives way to the inner thoughts of the girls who appear in the Russ Meyer films and other strippers ( as if we give a hoot about what they have to say , just shut up dance and look pretty . You're strippers dammit , not brainy philosophers ) , footage of Meyer's own " Europe in the Raw " , as well as screen test footage of of Lorna Maitland in Russ Meyer's " Lorna " Probably my forth least favorite Russ Meyer's film , ahead of " Pandora Peaks " and his two Studio films ( " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " and " The Seven Minutes ) No plot , dancings OK , but WAY too much yakkity yak .
dreadful	A girl dreams of becoming a star . . blah blah blah . You know what ? If you've seen the first " Hollywood Dreams " , you can skip this one as it's more of the same . And if you haven't seen the first one then I ENVY you . Count your blessings . It's hours of my life , I can not get back . The acting doesn't even reach ' Porn caliber ' . Most of the girls don't either for that matter . Remember I watch this crap , so YOU don't have to ! ! Where i saw it : Showtime-on-demand
Makes " Vice Academy " look like " Vice Squad "	Lana Clarkson is Jan Cooper a recently promoted but freshly off the wagon drunk of a cop . She finds herself paired with two other vice girl cops to catch the people who murdered Jan's homeless friends . The acting is atrocious , the plot overly silly , and the ' action ' insipid . This film makes " Vice Academy " look like " Vice Squad " . Even the plentiful nudity can't save this sorry little film from the trash heaps of celluloid history . ONLY for overly enthusiastic fans of the late Lana Clarkson , everyone else just move along , there's nothing to see here . There I've just saved you your valuable time and money .
can't hold a candle to the first one	In the not so grand tradition of " the Whole Ten Yards " , " Caddyshack 2 " , and " K-9 : P . I . " , comes yet another unneeded sequel the pees all over the much superior original . " Meet the Fockers " has Gaylord and gang meeting his parents played by Dustin Hoffman and Babs Striesand . But the fun-loving Fockers have to " teach " that ' mean old ' Jack ( Robert DeNiro wasted like everyone else in the film ) a lesson on how to loosen up . The laughs that could be found throughout " Meet the Parents " not only thin to a trickle , but cease to exist entirely in this film . , replaced with lame tired and cringe-worthy clichés . This was a very depressing movie indeed . Note to Barbra : Stick to singing , meshuggana .
Make's " Freddy got Fingered " feel like . . well not a good movie , just less crappy	Troma founder , Lloyd Kaufman is The Crapkeeper in this anthology film made up of two films that were such celluloid feces that Llyod tried to salvage them by combining the two into one anthology film and throwing in copious amounts of nudity whenever possible . Does it work ? nope , it's still crap that I'd have to scrape off my boots if I stepped in it . Will anyone like this mess ? Sure , Young teen aged mongoloids with the combined IQs of a Vienna sausage have to laugh at something , I guess . For those who have brains that are even semi-functioning steer clear though and watch something less insulting to your intelligence , even " Dude , Where's my car " would do .
the fake people	MTV is the epitome of narcissistic superficial artificial slack-jawed mentality that has changed the direction in the youth of American culture for the worse . And the film is quite possibly the nadir of said stupidity . In it a group of young blank twenty-somethings slither their war through spring break in Cancun sharing a beach house ( a la " Real World ) . How these rocket scientists can share a house when they don't even share a braincell among them is a mystery for the ages . One of them is a sober geek who never drank so much of the " reality " movie is based on getting him wasted . All of this is accompanied by mostly flavor of the week crappy music that again is like MTV . Horrible .
ALMOST the bottom of the barrel ( the sequel is the bottom )	Scotty ( Grant Cramer , who would go on to star in the great B-movie " Killer Klowns from outer space " ) agrees to help three middle-aged guys learn how to ' dialog ' the ladies in this bad ' 80's comedy . Not bad as in ' 80's lingo , which meant good . Bad as in bad . With no likable characters , including , but not limited to , a kid who's the freakiest looking guy since " Friday the 13th part 2 " ' a girl who leads men on and then goes into hissy fits when they want to touch her , and the token fat slob , because after all what would an ' 80's sex comedy be without a fat slob ? ? Well this one has two . This movie is pretty much the bottom of the barrel of ' 80's sex comedies . And then came the sequel thus deepening said proverbial barrel . My Grade : Eye Candy : too numerous to count , you even see the freaky looking kid imagined with boobs at on point , think " Bachlor Party " but not as funny , and VERY disturbing . Where I saw it : Comcast Moviepass
Donald Jones ' worst film	A cannibalistic backwoods killer is on the prowl and two bickering couples might be his next source of protein in this bargain basement Friday the 13th-clone cheapie . There s literally nothing of interest to see in this one , the killings are surprisingly sparse and when they do happen , completely amateurish . It also adds ghosts into the mix for no reason what so ever . I felt drained after watching it as if my brain was liquefying and draining out my nose . And it remains without a doubt Donald Jones ' worst movie . If you're thinking of renting it because of Code Red's snazzy new DVD re-release Don't bother
well since you asked so nicely , I'll give it to you	At Beaverview Cheerleading Camp , the goody-goody two shows Lucky Ducks cheerleading team must get in cahoots with the ' tough ' bad girl cheerleading team of The Demons to beat the dastardly Falcon team who always seems to win at this camp I guess . This being a typical clichéd ' 80's teen ( lame ) sex comedy who do you think will win ? But what the film lacks in originality it more than makes up for it sheer bloody awfulness . Oh and insanely bad dance numbers and the obligatory Japenese businessmen who want to buy the camp ( on the condition that male cheerleader , Tommy Hamilton , stays with the camp of course ) . Simply awful , forgettable , and sadly has a surprising lack of nudity . Where I saw it : HBO Comedy ( yup I did indeed give it to them )
a trite , clichéd mess	After Billy ( Costas Mandylor of the Saw films ) is sent to prison for killing Sean Walker's ( Blue Lagoon's Christopher Atkins ) partner ( among other things ) , Sean quits the police fore and moves his family to an isolated ranch where he takes work as a farmhand with his dad . Ten years later , Billy is back on the streets after escaping and looking to settle the score with Sean by hitting him where he hurts most , his family , including his wife the left him ( Angie Everhart ) and their homely sex-crazed , bi-curious daughter . ( don't get too excited as that aspect of the story goes nowhere ) This film is a heavily-clichéd , extremely badly acted , horribly written ' action revenge ' picture . This not only pales greatly in comparison to Mel Gibson's similarly name " Payback " , but also is the worst film with the name that I've seen yet ( to this date i've seen 5 of those named films as well as a TV film , all much better then this one ) Don't bother renting this one unless you have a stalkerish fascination with Angie Everhart Eye candy : An extra gets topless ; Nicole LeVoy shows T & A ( there's also nudity in the trailers for " Natasha " & " Distortion " ) DVD Extras : Trailers for " Kush " , " Good girl , Bad girl " , " Natasha " , " Army of the Dead " , " This thing of ours " , & " Distortion "
A blind guy could have gotten closer to the target	Successful writer Maria Baltran ( Rachel Sheppard ) goes back to the South American city she fled from as a kid on a publicity tour to promote her book that's about how corrupt her homeland is . For some reason some people want to kill her . hmmm , I can't imagine why , she writes of how utterly corrupt the country is and then GOES BACK THERE ON A BOOK TOUR ! ! Dumb poota . So after her best lesbian friend gets kidnapped ( not before sharing a tender moment with Maria , of course ) , she has to go save her . The post-recorded dialog was immensely distracting and annoying , and the plot is hopelessly convoluted . One of the worst Franco films that I've seen . DVD Extras : Behind the scenes ( 10 minutes ) ; deleted shots with commentary by producer Kevin Collins ; Spanish language clip ; and stills gallery Eye Candy : Rachel Sheppard shows it all
Simply putrid	An ancient immortal band of Satan worshipers , who were once priests whom casted God away & killed their fellow priests who refused to join their shenanigans , have to appease their dark master by sacrificing their virgin kin every 13 years . Featuring a groan-inducingly bad ' big bad evil priest ' & a vast assortment of other characters that you won't give two craps about , this stinker is a true chore to sit through . The occasional bare breast might keep you from falling asleep , but it's not nearly enough to keep you from losing all interest in the dreaded affair . Plus it has the worst hokey Satan puppet that I've seen in quite some time . Quite simply Prime Evil is simply Putrid . Eye Candy : Amy Brentano , Ruth Corrine Collins , Jeanne Marie & Miriam Zucker all get topless
Dreadful	A model and a fashion photographer are both killed . It's up to Detectives and ex-lovers , Sara Parson and Luke Gage to find out who did it . Then Sara falls for the murdered guy's twin brother's charms . One of the worse soft-core porns that I've watched . And if you read any of my other reviews , you know that I'm not one prone to hyperbole . The sex scenes arn't erotic in the least , no moaning , and to top it off they're all cut short . What the hell was Director Frank Carson thinking ? ? The Goods : 9 Sex Scenes not even full scenes ( M / F , F / F , M / F / F ) , inerracial , nude modelingBabe of the Movie : Lorraine Spaughton , because she's hot AND she gets murdered within the first 5 or so minutes , so you can watch her sex scene & change the channelWhere I Saw It : Showtime Too
Jeanna Fine deserves better	The crew of the starship Plunderer discover Uranus is pretty smelly thanks to aholes eating beans or so Mr . Sperm tells Captain Quirk ( Randy Spears ) . So the Cap tell Lt . UWhore to find a way to get them down there . If they only paid more much attention to make the sex , what's the word I'm looking for , oh yeah GOOD , and less attention to the horribly bad puns the movie would be a passable porn , alas that's not the case . As it is this porno plays out like a raunchy porn version of recent SNL skits , even having some girl who acts like Maya Rudolph , but not nearly as funny ( I know , I know Maya isn't funny to begin with , but this Maya-alike is less funny still ) . Furthermore , the 2 of the women in the sex scenes look like they've been around the block a few hundred times and their nether-regions are NOT erotic , to say the least , they looked like overgrown turkey giblets . YUCK ! Followed by 4 sequels to date . My Porn
Let the franchise die	Alison ( Kari Wuhrer ) is still being chased by the armies of heaven and hell because of the special manuscript she has in her possession . There's also a highly derivative retarded sub-plot revolving around a hit-man and his disgruntled angel employer ( Jason Scott Lee and a sadly wasted Tony Todd , respectively ) . Watching the previous film " The Prophecy : Uprising " is pretty much a prerequisite before you even attempt to watch this one , as it was in all likelihood one film that was splint in two and both halves padded so the viewer wouldn't feel ripped off . Well guess what ? you plan failed , guys . And the Prophecy franchise is going down the way of , well pretty much ANY Dimension film property ( Hellraiser , Children of the Corn , Dracula , the Crow , Highlander , etcetera . . . ) . Saturation ALWAYS gives way to lower profits and a weaker fan-base . Whereas quantity NEVER equates with quality . Such is this case with this travesty , I thought " Prophecy 2 " was the worst of the series . I've been proved wrong , I'll admit it . Eye Candy : Georgia Nica as Gabrielle gets fully nude
I knew Rutger , Rutger was a friend of mine . You , Jake Busey are NO Rutger	C . Thomas Howell is back as Jim Hasley , now a retired police officer . He and his girlfriend pick up another hitcher . Damn , this film was bad . Not as violent as the first . Not as exciting , nor as well acted . Jake Busey can't hold a candle to Rutger Hauer . And Kari Wuhrer was apparently trying to channel Ripley from Aliens , but failing miserably . Do yourself a favor , get a region-free DVD player and just buy the Region 2 special addition of the first movie . In hindsight , I should've been VERY weary of watching this , the writers are all first-timers , if Eric Red wrote this movie chances are it'd be so VERY much better ( but in my mind he wrote two of the best horror films in the ' 80's with the original Hitcer & " Near Dark ) . Furthermore , it wasn't a good sign when the director's movie prior to this one was the abysmal " Bats " . DVD Extras : Nada , biopics , zilch , not even a theatrical trailer
Doctor Bore	After the wife of a plastic surgeon dies , he gets his hunchbacked assistant to help him bring her back to life with various parts of other nubile , young , girls . This film wants to be a Hersel Gordon Lewis-type romp , but fails miserably . The acting is beyond bad , the gore effects atrocious ( no , not in the good way ) , the plot almost none-existent and no fun to be had . Skip it . You want to know how incompetent it is ? At one point you can actually see a movie slateboard quite obviously . Eye Candy : Candy Furr gets topless and again in a flashback DVD Extras : Commentary with Jeffrey Hogue and Cynthia Soroka , A second feature " How to make a Doll " ; Alternate Title sequence with Hershel Gordon Lewis intro ; 2 shorts ( " Quest of the Perfect Woman " and " Maniac Hospital " ) ; Cover art gallery with music by the Dead Elvi ; Trailers for " Dr . Black Mr . Hyde " , " Boots and the Preacher " ; " The Doctor and the Playgirls " , " the Gruesome Twosome " ; " Wizard of Gore " ; " Awful Dr Orlof " ; " Wacky world of Doctor Morgus " ; " Proffessor Lust " , " Monstrosity " ; " Fanny Hill meets Dr . Erotico " ; and " I , Marquis DeSade " Easter Eggs : Theatrical Trailer ; a scene from " Just for the Hell of It " ; and a trailer for " Axe "
make it stop , mommy . make it stop	Jesse James takes refuge in the castle of Fankenstein's daughter after his partner , Hank , gets shot during a stagecoach robbery . . She transforms his idiot friend into a zombie . A horrible movie made worse by Elite Entertainment's supremely lacking video transfer . The commentary makes it a bit better ( ALOT better if you tape your eyes shot for the length of the film ) . What the director was thinking , not only making this film , but making ANY movies at all I haven't a clue . Truly awful in just about every single sense of the word . I can't recommend this to anybody . DVD Extras : Commentary with Joe Bob Briggs ; and theatrical trailer
Caution this ultra-lame laugh-less snooze-fest that attempts to be another Amazons on the Moon-type spoof is almost completely unwatchable , Viewer Advoidance Advised	Take the absolute worst episode of SNL , marry it the Goove Tube ( minus the debatable wit ) & if they were to have sex this would be the grotesque idiot baby that they would have . All the skits are horrendously unfunny be they about a group of cowboys trying to outdo each other on who can suffer the most pain , or a guy with multiple personality disorder going to his ( fame seeking ) shrink , or a laugh-less horror film spoof , they common link is how devoid of even a smile they are . But then again what do I know about comedy anymore ? I lost my finger on the pulse of what America finds hilarious ever since " Meet the Spartans " somehow got to number one at the box office ( just thinking about that still makes me ill ) Eye Candy : Caroline Jett , Terri Swift , Marybeth Young show one boob each ; Swift also shows ass
boredom on demand	Richard Sachs ( if you didn't even chuckles at that name , the ill-conceived ' humor ' in this horror film will bore you , by the way ) , the collage student son of a successful businessman decides to have the inaugural debut of his reality show website shoot at an haunted house that was home of serial killer Sean McIntyre , a man who killed his family one Thanksgiving night before hanging himself . Of course he comes back to stalk the six contests of the game . This film was horrible in just about every way , with the acting being atrocious ( even for the low standard of low-budget horror films of the ilk ) , the humor was mind-stunning bad and the ' action ' came too little too late to really give a damn about it . A sub-par clone of just about any indistinguishable straight to DVD slasher flick out there today . Pass on it Eye Candy : Sara Christal , Krista Grotte , and Anne McDaniels all show breasts
search high and low , a worse slasher will not be found	Some teenagers and other people go in the words . A lot get killed . That's about it as far as plot goes . I like slasher films and it takes a very great incompetence to screw a slasher up . You take beautiful women ( preferably naked ) , numerous killings ( preferably gory ) , an unseen killer ( preferably memorable ) . Mix it all together and add a bit of panache and or wit or competence and Walla , Slasher A La Cart . Could this be the worst slasher ever made ? Quite possibly . Worst musical score ? YES ! ! Is it at least watchable ? Nope , not at all . Horrid in every sense . I rather watch " Don't Go in the House " again and trust me that one wasn't that great shakes either , or perhaps even " Don't go near the Park " .
Leaping Lizards , this movie is bad !	Opening on an erotic belly dance , Hata Mari ( Jennifer Welles , who won a best actress award for this which I NEVER understood why ) kills an American spy with her long fingernail ( hm . . . I wonder if the writers ' of HBO's " Oz " saw this ) . She later adopts Sammy ( Rocky Millstone , who proves why he never got a major acting part since , or before this . His timing and delivery is atrocious , EVEN by porn standards ) to act as bait for Daddy Sawbucks , in this ultra-lame , VERY dated parody of " Little Orphan Annie " The awful theme song sounds like something the Patridge Family would by singing . If you have to watch a porno with Little Orphan in the title , go with " Little Ophan Dusty " or the movies of Little Oral Annie and steer clear of this one .
the one with the homo wand	Music mogul , Bernie Stein , joins his nephew Freakie and a hippie roadie , Iggy in an effort to make a superstar out of dead body parts . The hands of Jimmy Hendrix , Sid Vicious's ass , Elvis's head , and the penis of Jim Morrison . Well it would have been Morrison if Iggy didn't screw up and bring back Liberace's love sausage . uh-oh , I smell a wall of gay jokes cumin along . Sure enough King , the monster , gets confused by his fudge packing pecker whom actually talks to him . And , oh who am I kidding , as a red blooded heterosexual make this film is just way too gay for me . ( not that there's anything wrong with that ) Eye Candy : Kate Fallon & Joan Gerardi get topless ; plus more nudity in the extra features DVD Extras : Commentary Director and crew ; 22 minute Behind the scenes featurette ; music video ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for 28 other Seduction Cinema titles
Jeepers Creepers he's definitely not	The Bonesetter , a child-killer long thought destroyed is brought back when a minion of his abducts some children on sacrifices them so that the monster can live again . Kyle ( writer / director Brett Kelly ) once again has to put a stop to the beast with the help of his police officer friend , Jackman ( Mark Courneyea , reprising his role from the first film ) . This time around the Bonesetter takes an interest in Kyle's pregnant wife as well . I have never seen the first Bonesetter film ( unlike this one it's not on Instant Netflix viewing and I'm not going to be bothered going out of my way to rent it ) . But to the best of my deductive abilities this film seems pretty much like a retread of the previous film . It has atrocious acting , some unintentionally funny ( the crazy eyes scene ) and other just abysmal ( the woman who play's Jackman's girlfriend is particularly heinous ) Oh and the movie goes out of it's way to insult mentally disabled people in such an unfeeling way that Barry ' my bowling is like the special Olympics ' Hussein Obama himself would be proud .
Forgot Carter , Get Dr . Kervorkian	Stallone stars in ( surprise , surprise ) another bomb of a movie . This time he fails in a re-make of a classic Micheal Caine film . It might seems that I'm hard on poor old Sly , well that's because I AM . He used to make great films . He used to be a contender . Granted this one would've failed with anyone as the lead actor in it . But I really want to see Stallone in anther GOOD movie ( something he hasn't done since 1997's " Cop Land " , and ' 93's " Demolition Man ) before that ) And it didn't help that Alan " I'm way over-rated , but way FFFAAABBBulous " Cummings was in the movie either . DVD Extras : Commentary with Stephen Kay ; 6 deleted scenes ; original ending ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailer for the original " Get Carter "
awful , full of themselves , and uninformative	Wow , I'm speechless . Everyone in this documentary seems so very full of themselves , as if the film wasn't a load of crap . Like they don't know how horrid the film they made was . In addition to the air of delusions of grandeur , this just isn't that informative in the least bit and even at merely twenty minutes , it's still way too long . After a while this horrible documentary started giving me the hugest migraine . It was awful and all the participants came across as severely brain dead and full of it . Don't bother watching this . It will either depress , sadden , or infuriate you . Any way it WILL not turn out good .
Unacceptable mistakes	I knew I was in for a LONG 90 minutes when the opening voice over mispronounced the word ' scarecrow ' ( it sounded like Scare Crew ) . And sure enough 90 minutes later , after witnessing beyond horrid acting , tedious drama , scarecrow's punches going nowhere near their intended target , but " hitting " it anyway , Ken Shamrock " acting " , and the most stupid illogical ending , I've seen in my life ( Ok , no , I take that last one back , in about a week ) . After making it through all that , I openly weeped that I couldn't just go to Lacuna a la Jim Carrey and just erase it completely from my mind . Any thoughts I might have had that Director Brian Katkin might have made an OK film given the right circumstances that I had after watching " Slaughter Studios " , are totally and completely gone from my mind now . Eye Candy : Tara Platt and Lisa Robert get topless Where I saw it : Starz on Demand ( available until September 22nd , 2005 )
Sludge	Poor , poor Sam Neill , a pretty solid actor in a piece of crap movie . Words to describe this " movie " would include melodramatic , overacted , pretentious , and for a large part of the overlong two hour running time so deathly boring . The perfomances are SO over-the-top . But hey , I hear the French LOVE this film . So it can't be all bad right . . . wait , wait yes it can . Before someone pipes in to say " oh , he must have not ' got ' the film " , keep in mind , that I ' got ' Naked Lunch a FAR superior film . Oh yeah , it seems that mass hysteria from the movie has carried over to the rating some IMDB users gave this cinematic waste .
kinda like Unlawful Entry . . but you know . . . HORRIBL	After Lynn and Douge Kaines ( Rebecca De Mornay and Ron Silver ) take part in a hit and run involving a cop think they got away clean into good old Hitcher himself , Rutger Hauer enters the picture . Way to derivate to be entertaining . Way too tedious to be engrossing and way too awful to be watchable . I'll let you in on a little secret when you have five writers on one movie , it's gonna suck . There MAY be some exceptions , but this , my dear friend , is clearly not one of those cases . Eye Candy : both Tamara Clatterbuck and Rebecca De Mornay go toplessWhere I saw it : Thriller Max
From the Director / Writer of " Going Overboard " ' nuff said	Cathey gets hired to be the new director of a Baywatch clone when the previous director goes crazy . It's the hope of the producer that this girl will up the female audience somehow . She finds that the other cast and crew is hopelessly inept , vain , and / or borderline mentally retarded . Needless to say sh wants to be off the show ASAP . But she's trapped . Director Valerie Breiman , who might I add was responsible for " Going Overboard " quite possibly one of the worst comedies EVER made , doesn't help her cause with this abysmal little number . Not only unfunny , but surprisingly not much T & A for a movie with Bikini in the title . It also is overly long and could've used much MUCH more editing . At least the ' writer ' had the common sense to leave his / her real name off it . Eye Candy : Donna Baltron , Maureen Flaherty . and Julie Strain bust out of their bras ( but all three can be seen in greater display in better films )
Renegade version : attempting to polish a turd you still have a turd	In the future Duncan MacLeod must fix the anti-ozone shield , because the ozone has been damaged throughout the years by humans rrolls eyes Well it doesn't really matter what happens because it's so bad that I don't even look at it as Highlander cannon . The ' renegrade ' version is like putting a band-aid on a severely gangrene leg . You should just amputate and be gone with it . Stupid , out-of-character , and destroys the greatness of the original . It's the most lame and obvious attempt to just cash in on what was the cult popularity of the original , but lacks any of the wit or the charm . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Russell Mulchahy , Producers Bill Panzer , and Peter Davis ; 18 minute making of featurette ; Stills gallery
what's the point ?	No clue why this is listed on this site , but it is and I review pretty much everything so here goes . This is just Aki's dream segments for the Final Fantasy movie all edited together in a row . Why anyone would watch it is beyond me , the ( few ) people who like the movie will just watch the whole movie again and the people who didn't like the movie could care less about this . It's so bizarre that they put this on the special edition . I mean what was the point ? Were they trying to get more financing or what was the deal people ? ? As it is I just can't give whatever this is a passing grade .
make . . . it . . . STOP	I just accomplished a feat of masochism so high that I think that I might have to call Guiness . Did I thrust 4 railroad spikes completely through my head and live to tell the tale ? Well , no ( but that would've been less painful in hindsight ) , I saw the new Happy Madison fiasco " Gradma's Boy " , the WHOLE thing . No , do not weep for me as I'm already dead . These 90 minutes have ranked among my most painful ever . Whether it was the retarded sitcomish storyline of a game testing moving in with his grand mom and her ' wacky ' friends , the annoying geek who broke into robotic voice , the lame attempts at " humor " , the stereotypical nerds , or the hackneyed ' love ' development , it matters not . The fact is that my will to live is now gone . Thanks to all involved for making a festering unfunny abortion of a movie . If you loved " Eight Crazy Nights " , " Little Nicky " , or " Larry the Cable Guy's Health Inspector " , you'll love this film ( I strongly advise making you people sterile somehow , by the way ) . If you liked " the 40 Year old Virgin " , " the Wedding Crashers " or " Waiting . . . ) , however , congratulations YOU have good tastes and you should stay FAR away from this film .
not up to par	the owners of a down on it's luck golf course facing a mortgage foreclosure and being taken over by the snobby golf club next door do what comes naturally in these type of movies : get a bevy of girls ( with more combined plastic in them than a Tupperware party ) to saunter around frequently topless . This of course drives the snobs mad in this lame third-rate version of " Caddyshack 2 " , which itself was a lame third-rate version of " Caddyshack " . So what a have have is an ultra-lame laugh-free sixth-grade version of a classic movie with oodles of fake tits . Sound like fun ? Nope I don't think so either . Avoid it like the travesty it is . Where i saw it : Starz on Demand ( available till August 25th , 2005 )
good video cover , dreadful movie	The writer who had a hand in the ultra-crap Gor films also helped write this awful flick about slaves in ancient Pompeii and the queen who helps them escape . Even with the abundant nudity , this film still can't be saved from a stupid storyline , abysmal acting , and just plain being boring . It was a tough chore sitting through this tedious moronic movie . The late great Donald Pleasence is slumming and wasted in this . I mean Sybil Danning I expect , she choose to do " Howling 2 " , so her sense of picking good films was never exactly the best . Simply dreadful in every sense of the word .
awful	A pretty fluffy 12 minute piece that can be found on the DVD of said movie . The only good part is when they admit in a roundabout way that the Coen brothers were hesitant about directing a piece of excrement like this . It also contains mini-interviews of how great the film is how great the other actors were , how amazing everything about everything is . It's just a promotional piece that I hate . Nothing noteworthy , neither interesting in the least . even though it only laster 12 minutes , that's STILL 12 minutes of my life I will never have back ever . And I weep for that fact .
I'm no longer afraid of death for I have looked this movie in it's cold vacant eyes	Shannon ( Deborah Dutch ) , who runs an escort service from what I gather , is the lead suspect in a string of murders of women abusers ( it doesn't help matters that she killed her abusive husband long ago ) and it's up to an undercover cop to get to the bottom of it . This film is just outright awful . Hienous acting , a needlessly nonsense plot , and the movie goes nowhere VERY slowly . Tedious enough to almost cure my insomnia but kill my braincells in the process . The film is also endlessly padded with dance sequences and awful music which only serves to prolong the extreme displeasure of anyone foolhardy enough to attempt to watch this travesty . Also it's quite possibly the most unerotic ' erotic thriller ' this side of Basic Instinct 2 ( but somehow worse , believe it or not )
dreadful DVD extra	This 9 minute and 30 second featurette that's located on the " Trailer Park of Terror " DVD features short interviews with the actors ( as their respective characters ) of the movie . It includes fake ' interviews ' with Norma , Marv , Roach , Larlene , Stank , and Miss China . Not that amusing of an idea to start with , it somehow gets worse as the ( seemingly endless ) minutes press on and on . This is one of the worst DVD extras that I have seen ( in recent memory at least ) and those that know me know that I'm not that prone to hyperbole , so trust me when I say that it's that bad .
no truth in advertising	This is less of an actual Making of than a simpleminded fluff promo piece on the movie " Red Dragon " , featuring much more clips than any actual behind the scenes tidbits . I don't know maybe that was just as well since after watching the real documentary on disc 2 of the Red Dragon special edition , I really don't thing I would be able to take any more of that . But this VERY short piece still fails on pretty much all accounts and me just waisting more time simply writing about it is one huge testament to the fact that I'd review just about ANYthing . That can be very maddening at time , maybe it's an illness .
Deja-vu all over again	If you have seen the original Wild Things you've already seen the two sequels by default . Actually I hate to use the word sequels when referring to those two " movies " as they're much more akin to bargain basement remakes . None of the quote ' twists and turns ' will surprise you in the least , well strike that it does have one or two new twists but they're both so extremely retarded that you'll be lobotomized by just witnessing them . Furthermore the one reason that you'd presumingly ever watch this are the ' hot girls ' , let me save you some time and money ( if you didn't just watch it on Starz like everyone else ) , see that box art of the film on the main movie page ? The women in the film are far from as striking visually and are the least attractive of the other girls in the series . Oh yeah , and a hearty huge fat BOOO to both Sandra McCoy AND Sarah Laine on both relying on body doubles . Neither one of them is going to go anywhere in the film industry with that lame attitude .
Bukowski deserves better	I love Bukowski's work , if I hadn't why would I search out this film ? Ben Gazzara did a pretty good job , but , his renditions of poetry were lifeless compared to the real Bukowski , and this took me out of the movie . Also , the film barely scratches the surface of the book that it's based on . Marco Ferreri seems to be a competent enough director , but he doesn't infuse the film with any spark , any charisma . Frankly , I enjoyed " Barfly " much more . True fans of Charles Bukowski would see-thru this film , and would best look elsewhere , or better yet just re-read one of his books . My Grade : D Eye Candy : The beautiful Katya Berger bares all on the beach , Ornela Muti shows her incredible backside , also Tanya Lopert and Susan Tyrell show various amounts of skin
more hideous then Bea Arthur sans make-up	Old bat transforms to younger OK looking girl after drinking a potion . This movie was dreadful . The acting atrocious . The camera work made me head spin . And it features the longest , most excruciatingly boring strip-tease ever put to film . Piero Vivarelli should be ashamed for directing this . Eduardo Manzanos Brochero should'voe been blacklisted just for writing something so awful . Don't rent this movie , the only exception I can this of is maybe If you're dying and only have less then 90 minutes to live , watch this film cause it will feel like an eternity and you'll be begging the Grip Reaper come a little early .
stay away	This 23 minute documentary contains a few serious flaws . First the cast talks about the film like they don't know its dog sh ! # . Secondly , some people reference " Kentucky Fried Movie " , " Airplane " , " Naked Gun " , " Hot Shots " , etc . . . so the film looks like WAY WORSE dog$ # it in comparison / Needless to say I can't recommend this lame ass documentary except to fans of the movie ( are there any of those sad people over the age of 13 out there ? ? ) A bad bad featurette about a bad bad movie . Not only that , but it seems to go on forever as well . If anyone wasn't suicidal before watching this , they are now . Thanks guys .
left a bad taste in my mouth	After being dumped by Vivica Fox , Cuba Gooding Jr . agrees to go on a boat cruise with Horatio Sanz . But after Sanz insults the travel agent's homosexual lover , they get booked on a gay cruise ( Heavens to Betsy ) . This movie and I use they term loosely , wants to have it's frosting topped penis-shaped cake and eat it too . Wants us to laugh both AT and with the gay men . It's similar to " Shallow Hal " in that way , but while " Shallow Hal " was pretty damn funny and a great movie overall , this one just lays placid . You MIGHT have a laugh here , and a nervous chuckle there , but all in all this movie blows . Where I saw it : Showtime
doesn't Lookwell or sit well to me	It's easy to see why this failed pilot didn't get a chance to become a series . Adam West's character Ty Lookwell seemed too one-not to me to every career a series ( we get it he's an actor who played a detective in the past and now believes he can be a real detective , but is an idiot ) , and the writing by the usually capable and very funny Conan O'Brian and Robert Smigal falls flat here , I hardly cracked a smile . IMDb reviewers tend to look at any failed pilot like if it got the green-light for a series would be pure gold . Well guess what , not ALL failed pilots are gold , not even most . I'd wager a VERY few handful . THIS show is not one of those .
well Ron Silver had to start somewhere I guess	In the future of 1985 , a governmental committee headed by Howard Hesseman , is holding hearings on TV's first uncensored network . They sample it's programming , that play as a series of skits . I can name the good ' skit ' movies on one hand , not using my thumb . " Amazon Women on the Moon " , " Kentucky Fried Movie " , " The Meaning of Life " , and " Mr . Mike's Mondo Video " . Notice how I didn't mention " Tunnel Vision " ? The reason for that is that this ' movie ' is death in cinematic form . None of the skits are even remotely funny , or even the least bit clever . It takes some sort of great ineptitude on the film makers ' part to not even get one laugh out of me . Eye Candy : Dody Dorn goes full frontal
A 4-dimensional turd	Hey , guys , let's do a sequel to an above-average sci-fi film . But this time why don't we completely throw everything that made the original good out the window . Let's get that screenwriter of " Halloween : Resurrection " to do this . Sure that movie was horrid too , but it made money . Ka-Ching ! ! Yes , I'm writing this in a joking tone , but I'm not that far off from the truth . The fact of the matter is Cube did NOT need a continuation . The original writer did NOT want to ever say where the mysterious Cube ever came from . This film lacks any logic or coherence . Skip it . Lions Gate DVD Extras : Commentary by Producer ErnieBarbaresh and Editor Mark Sanders ; Making Of Cube 2 : Hypercube documentary ; 7 Deleted Scenes ; Storyboards ; Stills Gallery ; Theatrical and Iternational Trailer ; and trailer for " Cube "
A bird in hand is worth more then . . . this movie	Robert Vaughn plays a Vietnam vet recently returning from the war only to find his wife in bed with another man . So he kills both of them and their friends before a bird takes his eye out . Flash forward two decades , and a group of students go off to study birds . Horrid acting , unsympathetic characters , lackluster plot , lack of action and insipid plot all combine to make this one to miss . Some day in the future when aliens visit Earth and see the landfills filled with films like this , " BASEketball " , " Joe's Apartment " , " Pootie Tang " , " CHUD 2 " , and " Witch Academy " , they'll get the wrong idea of Vaughn's worth as an actor . DVD Extras : Interview with Robert Vaughn ; Picture Gallery ; behind the scenes of " Flesh for the Beast " ( yea , i have no clue why it's on this disc either ) ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Flesh for the Beast " , " Black Demons " and " Zombi 2 "
Kev's thoughts on the film Part 2 : The Review	What the hell is up with that title ? Was Hedy in the first film the epitome of sanity ? ? Getting past the redundant title and the title sequence which look like they were written using post-it notes , you find a movie exactly like the first one . Wait no strike that , that one has Skinamax caliber acting , a surprising total lack of nudity ( save for one body double and a few extras in a S & M club ) , and a disjointed and uninvolving plot ( hey it IS like the original in that way ) . This movie ( and I use that term loosely ) was so bad that I half expected Mark Blankfield to show up in a role . OK , maybe not THAT bad , but very awful none the less .
Oooooh ( nooooooo ) Carlitos	Carlitos is a felon , upon getting out of jail around Christmas time , a junkie no good " friend " , Mike , shows him a claw he stole from someone . It seems some demonic forces want said claw back and decide to torment Carlito for it instead of his friend who is busy shagging Carlito's wife . Shades of " Evil Dead " , and " Hellraiser " abound , but bargain basement shades , with a horrid story , below sub-par ' special ' effects , and atrocious acting . Steer clear of this dreck . Fangoria endorses some god awful films and this is NO exception . As a matter of fact , I implore you to read " Rue Morgue " instead as it's so incredibly much better . DVD Extras : Fangoria Article ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Slashers " , " Wilderness " , " School's Out " , " Angel of the Night " , and " Lady of the Lake "
another masturbatory fluff piece	Oh goody , goody , four whole minutes of how great Jack Nicholson is , and how great it is to work wirh him , and how everyone admires him . That may all be true , but it doesn't make a good featurette in the least . WAY too fluffy . VERY uninformative . I HATE little fluff pieces like this . There was one on the " Wrong Turn " DVD too . They're so full of themselves and should just suck him off and get it over with , which ironically would make somewhat of a better featurette . Funny enough , you'd think of Jack was actually " buddies with these people as the title suggests , that he would at least add his two cents to the short . ( but he doesn't ) This 4 minute featurette can be located on the region 1 special edition DVD of the movie " Anger Management " My grade :
putrid	This very unfunny failed TV Pilot can be found as an extra on the 30th Annivesery DVD Special Edition " Blazing Saddles " . Imagine the movie without the satire , humor , or writing skills . But with all the trappings of a typical lame ' 70's sit-com show complete with obtrusive laugh track and you'll still have no clue how sheer putrid this failed show was . What the hell was Lou Gossett Jr . thinking when he signed onto this disaster ? ? This was possibly the worst thing he's been in ( and yes I'm including the first " Punisher " movie and " Iron Eagles 3 " . Steve Landesberg , I understand as he can't say no to crap .
what a waste	At a little over 3 and a half minutes , this mini snippet of a featurette is VERY fluffy and insubstantial . Basically an ego-stroke fest by Eliza Dusku . How she's so " great , and " sexy " , and " hard working " and blah blah blah . At not even 4 minutes this wears thin far before the featurette is over and I have no clue why it was added to the DVD of " Wrong Turn " . It offers no insight of any kind . No enjoyment of any kind . And is probably the worst featurette that I've ever seen in my life . Yeah , Elisa's " great " OK , we get it . Move on . Skip this featurette , it's totally and without a doubt worthless .
Speechless	The Killer Barbies van breaks down so they have to stay at a castle owned by a woman who bathes in blood and semen . Less of an actual movie than an overlong music video . This is quite the chore to get through . Horrid acting , boring clichéd lackluster plot , lame special effects , and a general putrid stench all add up to a horrible experience . . . even for a Jess Franco film ( Franco fans , are of a different breed and have a much MUCH higher tolerance for cinematic crap ) Followed by a ( why god ? WHY ? ? ? ! ! ? ? ) sequel . DVD Extras : Intro & Scene specific commentary by the band ; Talent Bios ; Band interview ; Movie review ; 2 Music videos by ' the Killer Barbies ' ; Lobby card gallery ; Jump to a scream option ; and Trailers for " Jungle Holocaust " , " Eaten Alive " , " Beyond the Darkness " , & " Burial Ground " Easter Egg : Intro outtakes & CD promo
Will's worst movie , yup worse than " Superstar "	Jack Wyatt ( Willl Ferrell ) is a big shot Hollywood actor who won't do a new show based on ' Bewitched " unless they can find a nobody to be in the part of Samanta in the new show so that he remains the sole star of the show . He finds said nobody in the form of Isabel ( Nicole Kidman ) , who happens to be a real witch who just wants to live a normal life . Who is very hesitant to take the part but at the same time is inexplicably attracted to Jack , much to the chagrin of her dad , Nigel ( Micheal Caine ) , who sees her new acting job as a modern day minstrel show for the witchy set . But when she feels unwanted , she reverts back to her witchy woman ways . Wow this movie was just awful . Not only did I not laugh even once , I actually felt a little bit sorry for everyone involved . Well some more so than others obviously . Micheal Caine deserves SO MUCH better , I mean the man's an icon . This is Will Ferrell's worst movie to date , and trust me if you ever saw " Superstar " , you'd understand the enormity of that statement , and Kidman well OK she just picks crappy movies throughout her career . But I digress , this is a movie that no one should have to ever sit through . Where I saw it : Starz on Demand
Madsen , why have thou forsaken me ? ? ?	Military experiment on unknowing test subjects in this beyond lame heavily clichéd horror flick . Horrid acting , lousy special effects , a moronic plot line , and Michael Madsen collide in what can arguably be said is the worst movie I've seen this year . Mr . Madsen , did you really need the money this bad ? ? ? Tp make matters worse all of the characters are horribly annoying and make the minutes I wasted on this festering turd stretch on and on forever making it seem like an eternity . Make no doubt about it , this movie is bad with a capital B in every possible or conceivable way .
playing on a constant loop somewhere in hell	This is a horrible horrible lame ass comedy with nothing funny about it in the least . It's about two elderly unattractive women playing high school girls . One loves a TV show called " Chick Boxer " which we never actually see aside from one small snippet . It was the worst thing I've ever experienced , if you ever find yourself in Hell , the ninth circle will be playing this film on a constant unending loop . The only good scene is one of Michele Bauer at the VERY end of the picture in a scene completely unrelated to the rest of the movie in any way shape or form completely nude for absolutely no reason . But by that point you would have in all likelihood have pulled a Kurt Cobain on yourself ( and by that I mean having Courtney Love come over and shoot you in the face ) DVD Extras : Intro by the bad movie police ; Commentary by JR Bookwalter ; 2 featurettes ( the Chickboxer Story , James Black & Chickboxer ) ; Stills Gallery ; and Original Trailer
how to NOT make a comedy	What makes this movie so damn bad ? Is it the lame sub-par juvenile humor ? Could it be the horrid " trendy " suck ass music ? Perhaps the uninspired go nowhere story ? Or maybe even the fact that Traci Lords gives her worst acting performance ever and to add insult to injury keeps all her clothes on throughout the length of this steaming turd sandwich . Regardless no matter what the reason this film sucks , the fact remains that it really REALLY does . I have never wished I could be watching a movie with Dean Cameron in it instead of what I was watching in my life , but " Ski School " is a masterpiece of comic genius compared to this travesty . Eye Candy : Nikol Nesbitt , Buffy Tyler and Suzanne Stokes all unleash their Tupperware titsWhere I saw it : Starz on Demand
Way back before she resembled Rossanne	Back before she became a grotesque charactature of himself , Anna Nichole Smith was hot in a trailer park trash , heavily siliconed , slutty kind of way . Skyscraper was the second of two films that attempted to exploit that dubious quality to maximum potential . Sure there's a minuscule threadbare ' plot ' involving terrorists . But that's just the flimsiest excuse to string together some SOFT soft-core scenes ( whic are way to few ad far between ) that lets Anna expose her two ' real ' and only talents ( yes the irony of using that word while talking of those tits is not lost on me ) However if you watch this movie , I'm pretty sure you know what to expect : Horrible acting , awful fight scenes , lame humor , and Anna's breasts . And nothing I can say will likely dissuade you from seeing it . Just know that the film is pretty damn dire and the other movie of hers " To The Limit " is the ' superor ' film ( i use the term quite loosely of course ) Where i saw it : Starz Edge
let's hear it for the worst horror film of 2007	Five cheerleaders drive down to one of their uncle's mansion for a mini-vacation , once there they meet Ranken the neighbor from half a mile down , he tells them of an abandoned house close by . A good portion of the movie deals with the girls lounging around the mansion's pool in bikinis ( but never do any of the get even topless , that would inject something of interest into the film ) with the horror / slasher element of the film relegated to late in the movie ( apart from a few asides to other people that don't really go anywhere & some flashbacks ) Even if I weren't jaded by atrocious low-budget slasher films , this one would've still bored me to tears . Nothing even remotely approaching competence ( much less entertainment ) can be found within this wast of celluloid .
pathetic attempt at a horror / comedy	Bunny and Steve plan a weekend camping trip with Trevor and Tammy whom they hope to hook up so Tammy will forget her former boyfriend . But once at the camping site , radioactive meteorites crash into a nearby cemetery causing the dead to rise up from their graves . Which none of the major characters realize for about half the film . The zombies don't even come into play into half an hour goes by and due to the feeble attempts at humor ( the near-nudity gag akin to an Austin Powers film is not witty nor clever in the slightest , the ' plot encapsulating ' park ranger is slightly less irritating ) what a long 30 minutes it is . As for the rest of the film , it's no great shakes either , but at least something , no matter how inept or badly acted , is happening . Make no doubt about it , this horror / comedy stinks more then a year-old decomposing corpse .
mind-numbingly awful	Roommates Sugar and Bobby Lee are abducted by menacing dudes while out shopping one day and taken back to a secluded island that the girls reluctantly tell the thugs that they last visited when they were ten years of age and that a fortune is located on . All that just pretty much bookends a movie that is pretty much one long flashback about the girls first visit to the island and subsequent fight with a cannibalistic family . This one is extremely horribly acted by everyone involved to the point that I started feeling bad for poor Hank Worden who truly deserved much MUCH better . As much as I didn't like " Barracuda " ( that's on the same DVD ) I have to admit that this film makes that one look like Citizen Kane . Eye Candy : one pair of tits ( they might belong to Kirsten Baker ) Dark Sky DVD Extras : Vintage ads for various drive-in food ; and Trailers for " Bonnie's Kids " ( features nudity ) , " the Centerfold Girls " , " Part-time Wife " ( features nudity ) , " Psychic Killer " , & " Eaten Alive " . The DVD also comes with 1978's " Barracuda "
a vast disappointment	This film based on an old Chinese tale is so very boring that it felt like it went on for days . Basic story is a drunkard marries a woman , his father hates him for being a lush , goes to the local bar to slap sense into him . The drunkard then wants to go work for his dead and somehow gets amnesia . I'm falling asleep just writing about this film . Just might be the worst Chinese film i saw thus far . Bad acting , yawn-inducing ' action ' , extremely mediocre plot , I implore you , if you value your sanity at all avoid this film . It might be a good cure for insomnia , but entertainment value is nonexistent .
Visions of sleepiness	Jeanie ( Mia Zottoli ) and her magical video camera ( I say magical because it can see through windows with the blinds shut ) record various people having sex to use the footage in her upcoming documentary . One night she records a senator ( who's a republican of course , if these things where true to life it'd been a democrat more then likely , but thats a whole different rant ) , anyways she records a senator with a callgirl ( Regina Russell ) and has to contend with an editor who steals it . The sex scenes aren't all the great , the plot boring . Skip this one . The Goods : 10 sex scenes ( m / f , f / f , and solo ) ; Naked dancing in opening creditsBabe of the Movie : I'm all about giving fresh faces a chance , so enjoy the accolades Natalie MooreWhere I Saw It : More Max
abysmal	A man and his girlfriend are alone on a camping trip . She wants to hear a ghost story badly . At first reluctant , he agrees to tell her the story of an insomniac man who just escaped an insane asylum , but mid-story he falls into a near catatonic sleep . After he does the people from his story show up , and they're none to happy to say the least . This movie was all over the place and not in a good way . Horrible pacing , atrocious acting , almost non-existent directing & a lack of any foreseeable vision makes this film reek . I felt detached from any given character in the movie and when it was over I had no clue why I bothered in the first place .
i was dumbfounded	A middle-aged man seeks to rehabilitate prisoners through education , teamwork & paint gun sessions . The hardened prisoners however are reluctant at first , preferring to bicker amongst themselves and laugh at videos of people getting killed . It isn't long before even the white power racist is working hand in hand with the drug addicted black guy . But their new found commodity is put through a test that no one planned for when they encounter a death cult while on a camping trip . Part low-grade brain-dead " Stand & Deliver " , part truly idiotic action-oriented devil-worshiping film , ALL bad . When I started watching this film I thought it was very badly acted and it indeed was , but then the cult takes center stage close to the middle half of the film making the acting that came before seem positively almost Oscar-caliber in comparison , it was surreal . I thought I had witnessed truly bad acting before , but this movie really opened my eyes as too how incompetent people could get . I'm still kind of in shock . Eye Candy : Shayanne Days & Debra Naclerio both show some T &
This is about What Lies Beneath ? ? You'd think so , but you'd be wrong	This 15 minute featurette on the making of " What Lies Beneath " can be found on the special edition DVD of the aforementioned movie . If you think nothing in-depth could be said about an over 2 hour film in merely 15 minutes , you'd be right and this feels much more like a promo piece than anything else . Plus whenever you have " Perfect " ANYthing in the title , it reeks of being full of itself . I mean the film was good , but ' the perfect thriller ' ? ? ? Come on now , nowhere close . This goes more into Robert Zemeckis ' film career than anything else . With the film it was supposed to be based on seeming like an afterthought .
Worst DVD in the history of cinema Part 2 : CutThroats	Why the Summary ? Well i caught this " movie " ( note the quotation marks ) on a DVD released by Sub-Rosa that also had " Loons " on it , it also had a short on it , but my DVD player broke down before I got to see it ( must have gotten good taste ) . This one seemed so long & boring , that it made " Loons " , which i HATED with every fiber of my being , seem like a piece of art ! ! In " CutThroats NOTHING happens . A guy who can't sleep goes to his office and does . . Yup you guessed it NOTHING . How do i know he was tired ? ? Because he was doing those annoying exagerated yawns ALL movie long ! ! The acting stunk so bad that I thought my septic tank burst in my living room . At one point a woman goes to her boss , asking him to break a dollar for her . What does he do ? YUP YOU'RE RIGHT . . he rips the dollar bill in half . I was SO ready to punch a hole in my TV set because of this movie . So in conclusion to my special two part DVD review let me tell you this . The director / writer of this movie should by shunned . Not only shunned , but blacklisted . He should go into door to door toilet selling or ANYTHING but making movies . If Ed Wood were alive he'd go to the maker of this film & ask " what the hell were you thinking , man ? ? ? ? "
playing on a constant loop somewhere in hell	This is a horrible horrible lame ass comedy with nothing funny about it in the least . It's about two elderly unattractive women playing high school girls . One loves a TV show called " Chick Boxer " which we never actually see aside from one small snippet . It was the worst thing I've ever experienced , if you ever find yourself in Hell , the ninth circle will be playing this film on a constant unending loop . The only good scene is one of Michele Bauer at the VERY end of the picture in a scene completely unrelated to the rest of the movie in any way shape or form completely nude for absolutely no reason . But by that point you would have in all likelihood have pulled a Kurt Cobain on yourself ( and by that I mean having Courtney Love come over and shoot you in the face ) DVD Extras : Commentary by JR Bookwalter ; 2 featurettes ( the Chickboxer Story , James Black & Chickboxer ) ; Stills Gallery ; and Original Trailer
one-sided BS out-dated propaganda	Horribly one sided , this propaganda piece spouts the supposed merits of inoculations ( whill conveniently NOT telling that those same shots can in some instances be MORE harmful than what they innoculate against ) I learned of THAT travesty first hand and it's a bitch . That part of the animated short made me so damn mad that it tainted everything that was said afterwords . Not only is this pure unadulterated propaganda crap , it's also EXTREMELY dated and isn't worth watching due to it's horrendous use of fear tactics . This animated short can be seen as an extra in the " From the Vaults " section on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
Why , Hersel , why ? ? ? ? ?	A nerdy professor and his lecherous sleazy old man lab partner build robotic ladies cause he can't get any in real life . They use a machine that makes the most annoying sounds I have EVER heard ( well besides those that emanate from Al Franklin i mean ) . Supremely unfunny , boring , horribly acted , and a tedious LONG chore to sit through , all combine to make this one of the worst comedies that I have EVER seen . I hated this as much as Doctore Gore . And that , my friend , is a lot . This movie can be found as a bonus second feature on Something Weird's " Doctor Gore " DVD ( Yet another reason never to buy said DVD EVER )
It's a stiff	Brothers Sam and Max inherit a mortuary from their late uncle with the added stipulation that they must pass the Mortuary Academy which is run by Paul and Mary ( Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov from " Eating Raoul " ) . who don't want the brothers owning the mortuary and do everything in their power to stop them . This movie has numerous actors that fans will remember ( Pual Bartel , Mary Woronov , Tracey Walter , Wolfman Jack , and Vance Colvig Jr ) All those name faces from B-movie greats can't mask that this film stinks more then a year old corpse . Bad taste CAN be funny . IF done right , pretty much every subject can bring about a laugh or three , but that requires talent , something this movie seems to be lacking . Furthermore , to mention this film in the same sentence as the classic " Porky's " or " Revenge of the Nerds " is damn near blasphemy . Eye Candy : Cheryl Starbuck is topless
the 80's were so prosperous that even Eddie Deezen could find steady work	Sometime between " Bosom Buddies " and " Newhart " , Peter Scolari starred in this dud of a comedy as Elliot , a soft-spoken weak-willed guy who's badged by his fiancé into taking up the reigns of her father's ( Christopher Lee in a thankless role ) hotel in Florida , which her dad just wants to burn down for the insurance money . Fran Drescher embarrasses herself as the head bellhop / hooker , and Eddie Deezen is on hand to . . . well to act like Eddie Deezen , the guy does the same shtick in every film he's been in and is never good . The film attempts to go for low-brow laughs , yet fails to even deliver at that . Eye Candy : Monique Gabrielle , Julia Always , Durga McBroom , Tina Merkle , Julia Parton , & Paula Wood all show T & A Where I saw it : Netflix online via Xbox 360
NOT a chip off the old block	Santo's son has to fight a secret group of aliens who have lived beneath Earth's surface for some time after he figures out that his friend , The Blue Panther , is being mind controlled by them somehow . While the actions of the son doesn't tarnish the memories of old Santos movies , this movie was still pretty band and can't really hold a candle to the movies that the original Santo appeared in . Also the special effects are extremely lackluster and are relied on a bit too heavily . DVD Extras : Deleted scenes ; Outtakes ; Premiere footage ; Special effects of ; Director Interview ; ' the Best of El Santo ' ; and a Santo Vs . Blue Demon wrestling bout ( all in Mexican with NO sub-titles ) ; Also trailers for various crappy Rise Above reality fare
slow and deathly dull	I must admit upfront that seeing that sometime cohorts of Uwe Boll ( Micheal Roesch & Peter Scheerer ) wrote and directed this film did fill me with some dread , but I also resigned myself to watching all of the films in the " Ghost House Underground " set , so with great reluctance & extremely low expectations I popped it into the DVD player . It turns out that lowering my expectations was the right move on my part as the film was dreadfully bad and I started to even feel sorry for Sid Haig and Ken Foree , two horror film icons who truly deserve better . More of a character piece than a vampire tale , but all the characters are bland and lifeless ( no pun intended ) Maybe it's time someone put a stake in the vampire sub-genre as it's done . DVD Extras : a short 5 minute behind the scenes featurette ; interviews with actors Victoria Pratt , Sid Haig , & Ken Foree ; storyboard to screen comparison ; trailer for this movie ; and trailers for " Dance of the Dead " , " No Man's Land : The Rise of Reeker " , " the Substitute " , " Dark Floors " , " Trackman " " Room 205 " , & " the last House in the Woods "
Drawing blood doesn't have to be THIS painful	A vampire's's henchman wants to call her after falling in love with a five-dollar hooker in this extremely low-budget horror-comedy . I can't explain all the positive comments on this movie . I'll chalk it up to mass hallucination , but it's disconcerting none the less . The one redeeming factor ( and this is me being extremely generous here ) might be the Grandfather who's the only semi-likable character in this whole mess . Don't waste your money , or time . In fact here's a word of advice , If Troma puts it out on DVD , but does NOT make it themselves , in all likelihood it's crap . Troma DVD Extras : Commentary with Omar and Kirk ; second commentary with cast and crew deleted scenes ; bloopers ; troma interactivity ; radiation march ; Clip from " Terror Firmer " ; Theatrical trailer ; Trailers for " the Rowdy Girls " , " Teenage Catgirls in Heat " , " Cannible : The Musical " , and " Toxic Avenger 4 "
Idle minds meet Buffy rejects	This low-budget " From Dusk till Dawn " & ' Vamp " generic copy , starts off well enough with two clueless clowns ( Devon Sawa & Steven Schub ) going to a strip club that's filled with ghouls ( obvious ' buffy the vampire slayer ' rejects ) . But as it goes on , the films goes downhill fast . Sawa's reluctant ' hero ' grates on the nerves badly and Kelly Hu further proves that she should be seen and not heard . In fact any scene without Ken Foree in it is pretty much completely unbearable . This is a ' horror-comedy ' that sadly can't produce either horror nor comedy . Eye Candy : Dawn Olivieri and an unknown extra get topless
a real dog	While at the funeral of his father , Danny ( Writer / director Brett Kelly ) is attacked by something unseen . Refusing to go to a hospital despite the gash on his head , he instead finds himself at home later that night soaking in the bathtub . Meanwhile a dog & her owner are killed by something unseen . Danny , who had fallen asleep , awakens in reddened water . During the following nights his life continue's to spiral downwards . Just what is Danny becoming ? Could a hint could be found in the title of the film ? This movie chooses to focus on a supposed ' mystery ' of who the mystery killer could be , something anyone who was even halfway paying attention could easily deduce very early on in the film . With that supposed mystery aspect dead in the water , we instead are forced to really on the caliber of the acting to carry the film . The thing is the film is full of wooden actors spouting horribly stilted dialog . Combine this with shoddy minimalistic special effects , down right boring storyline , and a sappy still music montage about halfway through the film to pad out it's already anorexic running time of little over an hour ( which is still under an without the end credits ) and you get a rather bad film that isn't worth your time . However , it's still better than the writer / director / actor's later film " the Bonesetter Returns " Eye Candy : Elizabeth Woods provides a minimal amount of T & A Where I saw it : Instant Netflix viewing
a boot to the head would sound more appealing	B . J . Quinn ( martial artist John Barrett ) has just gotten out of a one year stint in prison where he was sent after an accidental murder thanks to testimony by Jacques Denard ( Brad Morris ) . Now he has to train for a martial arts contest against his arch-rival Denard , with a paltry $100 , 000 on the line put up by a shoe company . It's kind of hard to root for a guy who committed manslaughter at a party and remains unrepentant . It doesn't help that the acting is laughably inept in every possible way . Barret is a better kick-boxer than actor . He ; s not that good at kick-boxing in this film either . Hoing into this film , you know it'll be horribly acted , but you still hope that it's hilarious it it's ineptness . It's not . It's boring , dull , and not worthy of anyone's time
A crap movie inside a crap movie	Low-budget producer King Faraday is a cranky mean slave-driver and his wife Candy is itching to kill him . She enlists the help of Lou , recently fired and evicted to help with her plans to use the movies he's currently working on as a cover for her nefarious deed . Candy gets King to re-hire Lou , which isn't hard since King doesn't remember him at all . Lucky guy , I wish I could forget stuff so easily , I would start first & foremost , this dreadfully unfunny , unentertaining , and worthless little film . If you simply NEED to see Miss Quigley topless ( and really why would ANYone watch this crap anyway ) just pop in " Return of the Living Dead " for the umpteenth time . Eye Candy : Linnea gets topless naturally ; Delia Sheppard , Nancy Bridgeford , Monique De Anna , Kim Scolari get topless as well My grade : D DVD Extras : Commentary with Actors Robert Qusrry , Delia Sheppard , & Linnea Quigley ; Second commentary with Jeff Bradstreet & Robert Benson ; a 14 minute Making of ; Delias's Auditionand Trailers for " Fraulein Leather " , " Nudes on Credit " , " Mission Killfast " Easter Egg : In the main menu highlight a pair of eyes for the made-up Filmography of King Faraday
you say Homage , I say Rip-off , let's call the whole thing off	A group of young filmmakers break into an old abandoned hospital to shoot a film and inadvertently open a portal that unleashes zombies on the hapless cast and crew in this horror-comedy . Mixing horror with comedy is a VERY tricky thing . The ones that work do so amazingly well ( Dead Alive , Return of the Living Dead , Re-animator , bad taste , etc . . . ) . The movies that don't work are usually total ass . This self-referential name-dropping , scene stealing film is part of the latter and ranks down there with " Dead Heat " as far as what NOT to do to succeed . Horrible acting , music , lame jokes , stealing scenes outright from far better films , dime-store special effects , and an unengaging , unoriginal story all add up to a putrid stench-filled film . DVD Extras : Commentary by Writer / Director Dave Parker , and actors Eric Clawson , Matt Stephens , Brett Beardslee , & Jamie Donahue ; photo gallery ; production art ; a 20 minute behind the scenes featurette ; Music video ; a ad for the puppet master toys ; and theatrical trailer Gripes : If you have the commentary turned on and then go to the extras NONE of them will play sound . word of warning
don't follow this model	Ariella ( Juliana Kinkade ) daydreams about being a model as well as a secret agent , after her sister finds her a job as a model photographer's lackey . It's best to concentrate on the girls , as the storyline is silly and i HATE ending where it was all a dream anyway . But all the girls were unusually beautiful and the film was much more light-hearted than any other soft-core film I've seen of late . So that raises the grade up a tad . The Goods : 6 sex scenes ( m / f , female threesome , f / f ) nude modeling Babe of the movie : Mary Carey . Juiliana is cute and all , but I don't like plastic boobs so the former governor Candide gets my vote My Softcore
You DON'T watch the Zohan	An indestructible seemingly-super human Israili agent ( Adam Sandler ) fakes his own death at the hands of an equally indestructible seemingly-super human Palestinian agent ( John Turturro ) in order to go to America to become a hairdresser and make everyone ' silky smooth ' . The only job he can find is in a Palestinian hair salon which is being threatened by evil American businessman , Walbridge ( Michael Buffer ) who wants it ( along with the rest of the neighborhood ) out of the way to make room for a mega-shopping center . Firstly , congratulations MUST go to Dennis Dugan who has made not only one of the worst films of 2008 with this lame , unfunny and tedious bit of cheesy fluff , but has been making one of the worst movies of the years 2006 ( The Benchwarmers ) & 2007 ( I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry ) . Back to the movie at hand , I found the ' film ' to be overly long , tedious to watch and jaw-droppingly unfunny and like most films of this ilk way too infatuated in cramming as many nonsense cameos into the flick as possible . The story is embarrassingly bad and moronic . You don't watch the Zohan .
For hardcore Tiffany Shepis fans ONLY	Young adults in camp , masked killer , yada yada yada . . . Thankfully , I didn't see the first Bloody Murder , but the horrid buzz on it , coupled with the fact that it was directed by the supremely untalented Ralph Portiloo doesn't make me want to watch it anytime soon . The main reason I sat through this one was because of Tiffany Shepis , and I wouldn't mind if she came to my house to personally thank me for having to sit through this mind-blowingly stupid little film . The first murder will please some gore-fans , and it's always nice to see the Shepis " twins " , but the film really isn't worth the time . Further the ending is among the stupidest things I've ever seen . Eye Candy : Tiffany Shepis gets fully nude multiple times
chock full of filler	Dina Lo Bianca ( Lorin Becker ) is out of the assassination game until she gets a call about one last job . The price is right and she's back in the thick of it again in this action movie by Mark Vasconcellos . This film is filled so heavily with filler material , that it takes 94 minutes for what could've been a 75 minute film . See Becker surf , see Becker lounge around the pool , see Becker shower and bathe . See Becker NOT get nude while doing any of those aforementioned things , what a prick tease . Marginally good camera work , but a half-baked script and mediocre acting make this one a stinker .
' special ' effects on par with " the Thing Below "	With so-called ' special ' effects that may very well rival " the Thing Below " , this tale of giant intelligent bugs that terrorize sorority girls is bad in every possible way . The acting's awful , the plot's overtly stupid , and the aforementioned special effects make the whole thing laughable , if not for the fact that you'll be too depressed that you've wasted about an hour and a half on this garbage . Even nudity can't save this from falling into the abyss of the dreaded DVD bargain bin . Not that bargain can be used in any connotation when referring to this movie . No matter which way you slice it , simply dreadful . Good thing that Director Jeffery Lando holds three citizenships , become this film ( and his others ) are so bad that his American should be revoked . Eye Candy : the unfortunately named Chris Guy shows everything she's got ; Rhonda Dent shows T & A ; Anna Farrant and Natalia Tudge just show tits
Annoying fat guy makes it a chore to sit through ( no not Haratio Sanz , a different one )	This film has one huge strike against it from the get go . One huge fat obnoxious unfunny strike . You probably know where I'm going with this one , perhaps Justin Urich is good in other films he's been in , I don't know , and frankly judging from the total asinine idiotic pi$$ poor job he does here , I'd be happy if I never see a movie he's in again . The plot such as it is , is about a freak who drives a monster truck ( but not in the plot holes with the film , although he could have and it would have made a better film ) , trying to capture a guy who still loves a girl who's getting married , his fat ass unfunny nails on the chalkboard annoying ' comic relief ' friend , and some hitch-hiking girl they pick up along the way who is nice to look at ( in a way ) UNTIL she belts out Yoda quotes during a lame ass sex scene . I mean , COME ON . Just when you think the film can't get any worse you're hit with the stinking dead fish of an ending that charts new levels of incompetency , All in all , I wish I were fishing .
one of the worst episodes of the series	Jerry Rulac tries in vain to get a good story for his reality TV show thats centered around nightclubs . He might get a bigger tale then he bargained for in this supremely boring and stupid episode of the Hitchhiker . The story never really goes anywhere and one could surmise that the episode was put on Volume 1 of the US release of the show only because of the star power of one Helen Hunt , who's pretty bad in the role she's casted in . This was quite possibly the worst episode of the otherwise OK series that I've seen thus far . If you rent the volume one DVD set , skip over this one , if you see it on TV , change the channel . Utterly worthless . Eye Candy : one extra gets topless
NOT a metal movie	Marky Mark is the lead singer in a cover band and gets to play with the band he worships after the fire their lead singer in this dud ' inspired VERY loosely by ' the story of Tim Owens of Judas Priest . The basic story of guy craves fame , gets it , screws a transvestite , parties , loses girl , quits band to cut his hair and become a poof in a coffeehouse band , gets girl back , the end . There are so many things that don't work well in this movie . Jennifer Aniston is miscast . The ending is the biggest pile of horse manure . And you don't make a movie about metal and then have a lame soundtrack , among other things . Writer John Stockwell wrote Cheaters and Blue Crush so in retrospect it's no surprise that this movie blows . The only good parts were some of the acting , and that Zakk Wylde is in it . That's pretty much it . My Grade : DVD Extras : Commentary with Stephen Herek ; Making-of featurette ; Everclear music video ; cast & crew bios ; and Theatrical Trailer Eye Candy : Various big breasted groupies show what they got
put me to sleep	This is the ' making-of ' of one of the most over-rated ' slice-of-life movies of my lifetime . The cast talk about the obvious stuff and it doesn't illuminate how any of this movie would be adored by such ' intullectual ' morons . They go on and on about how great every other of the members of the cast are . I hate making-ofs that feel like a celluloid circle jerk . And thus I don't really like this one . Plus I just plain don't like the film " Ghost World " as it's pretentious , self-serving , unfunny and boring . This 11 minute featurette can be located on the DVD special edition of the movie " Ghost World "
if i here the word Bango one more time . . .	A tabloid reporter ( Kirstie Alley ) will go to any length necessary to dig up the dirt on legendary rock musician Billy Baltimore , who's supposedly been dead for the last 20 years . This episode pretty much sucked , no one in it was relatable so you didn't really give a damn what happened to any of them thus removing any trace of tension . It really didn't help matters that Alley's acting abilities , or in this case , lack there of , was grating beyond belief . The Hitchhiker series had some pretty good shows , this was definitely not one of them . This is one of the episodes that can be found on disc 2 of Volume 1 of the US release .
dreadful	Softt-core period piece that has the ' action ' taking place during the days of the Roman Empire falls flat . Whereas " the Secret sex lives of romeo & Juliet " had it's quite attractive women to fall back on as well as a fews actually humorous jokes , this film has neither . The women are not that attractive ( and the men are outright hideous ) . The movie is a deadly dull chore to watch even for a few minutes much less the whole thing . Any watcher of Something Weird's dvds can attest to the films they release are purely hit or miss . This one being an obvious all-around miss . Something Weird DVD Extras : 2 short features ( Cleopatra's milk bath , and Cleopatra's asp ) ; gallery of Harry Novak art ; and Trailers for " the Brazen women of Balzac " , " A Clock Work Blue " . " Fanny Hill " , " the Nine Ages of Nakedness " , " Roman Love Triangle " , & " the Secret Sex lives of Romeo and Juliet " ( The latter of which is also on this double feature DVD ) Eye Candy : all the women show skin , but most you don't want to see them naked
Jacob's Ladder for idiots	Amy ( Mrs . Ben Stiller , Christine Taylor ) has to get over her deeply embedded fear of hospitals after her boyfriend is taken to St . Rosemary's after a horrific car accident . The problem is that that specific hospital doesn't seem to technically exist . She joins up with Lucas ( Jerry O'Connell from " Sliders " , " My Secret Identity " & " Stand by Me " fame ) who's searching for her sister , a victim of the same car accident . O'Connell pulls of his role with aplomb and the hospital setting does create an unnerving atmosphere . Also the make-up effects are pretty well done given the budget . However Taylor just can NOT seem to act in this film and as she's the lead role it's a huge detriment to the movie . A fairly clichéd and highly derivative plot don't help matters in the least . I've seen worse films , but I've also seen much much better ones . Oh and I saw the " twist " ending coming a mile away and still found it atrociously bad . Eye Candy : 4 nurses decided to all get nude and drip blood all over each other for no reason whatsoever Where I saw it : Netflix online view
Believe it or not , it's just . . . a crappy movie	Christopher Guest need not worry , his supreme hold on the Mockumentary sub-genre is not in trouble of being upstaged in the least especially not by this extremely unfunny jab at RPG-gamers . The jokes are beyond lame . Not enough substance to last the typical length of a ( particularly rancid ) SNL skit , much less the 87 atrocious minutes I waisted watching this drivel . The great William Katt ( Greatest American Hero , House ) deserves much MUCH better . One thing and one thing alone makes the fact that I saw this worth it in my mind and that's posting about it on here so hopefully just hopefully I'll save someone such a bad experience . DVD Extras : 2 Audio commentaries ; 7 interviews with various cast members ; 4 deleted scenes ; & theatrical trailer DVD-Rom extras : 2 Wallpapers Easter egg : Highlight the eye in the picture on the main menu for a short scene
a precursor to " Bloodletting "	This is a shorter earlier version of the movie " Bloodletting " and is located on the DVD of the aforementioned movie . I didn't like this one as much and I can easily see why the re-worked it & expended it to make the full length movie . I'm glad it's an extra on the DVD to see how far they had come , but at the same time it's merely a curiosity at most and not really something that I'd watch again . But I DO recommend buying the DVD to get the main movie which is pretty good if not the best work in writer Matthew Walsh's lexicon ( I know he goes by three names , but the use of a middle name is pompous and as such I only use the middle name is well if said person is in the top of his class ) in my not-so-humble opinion .
31 flavors of crap	Clint Howard , brother of more talented Ron , stars in this abysmally awful horror comedy about a mental case who serves ice cream to children and kills people . Striving to be a movie that's of the ' so bad that it's good ' variety , this film misses that mark by a good mile and instead has to be seen as ' so bad that it's . . . well . . . BAD ' . Wheter it's the constant ' shoe ad ' cinema , the pillow stuffed ' fat kid ' , or the sleep inducing ' horror ' that soured me on the film , i don't know , all I know is I loathed the film ( and this from a guy who has a soft spot for B-horror films ) . Paul Norman choose to continue making films in the porn industry both before and after this , his only ' mainstream ' film . A wise choice indeed as horrible acting , nonsense storyline , and ludicrous dialog are much MUCH more palatable while seeing a porn starlet do her thing . Funnily enough this turkey has absolutely NO nudity ( another reason to steer clear )
obvious lame jokes fall flat	Jim Wynorski directed some extremely watchable B-movies in the beginning of his career . Deathstalker 2 , Chopping Mall , Sorority House Massacre 2 , to name a few . While all cheesy , they were all fun . This film , however , is not among his bests by a long shot . ( it IS however writer R . J . Robertson's best , but compared to House 4 , Munchie strikes back , or Beastmaster 2 , that's not particularly a ringing endorsement ) Dexter accompanies Marisa to Transylvania in order to get to her uncle's funeral and subsequent viewing of the video will . She stands to inherit the family mansion , but sinister Byron , her other uncle ( played by Robert Vaughn , who must have needed money in a bad way ) . The jokes and so-called ' parodies ' are lame , obvious , extremely unoriginal , and more likely to produce a groan than anything even remotely resembling a laugh . If you're a maschocist rent this along with the equally atrocious Transylvania 6-5000 for the completely laughing double feature from hell .
Watch this on a double-bill with " Christmas with the Kranks " if you're a COMPLETE masochist	Drew Latham ( Ben Affleck , who desperately needs another movie thats actually watchable ) is a brass wealthy young man who desperate to find someone to spend Christmas with decides to pay the family that now live in his boyhood home $250 thousand dollars ( initially ) to spend the holidays with them in order to recapture some of his childhood memories . Affleck's narcissistic A-hole character didn't walk for me in the least , and really he himself isn't that good of an actor anyway ( barring Good Wil Hunting ) . And as horrid as Affleck is in this film , Christina Applegate is quite possibly a million times worse as the hateful daughter who ' warms up ' to Drew . Unsurprisingly James Gandolfini as the father is pretty much the only person who makes it out of this train wreck of a film intact . He almost makes the film watchable ( ok , that may be overstating the fact a tad ) . How poor Udo Keir got roped into this travesty , is anyone's clue . I hesitate to blame Director Mike Mitchell as I enjoyed some of his past work . But look at the writers ' other credits . Yup , it's easy laying the blame of this crap squarely on their respective doorsteps . Where I saw it : HBO
Next time choose to watch a better movie	Nicolas Cage is Chris Johnson an average Joe who happens to have the gift of seeing two minutes into his future ( ass well as every possible deviance therein ) , when the FBI learns of his peculiar gift they ( specifically Julianne Moore's character of Callie Ferris ) want him to help with preventing an imminent terrorist attack whether he wants to or not . There's also a love interest pigeonholed into the tale in the form of Jessica Biel whom Chris can see way farther into the future when he's with . Also if you're looking for anything but an extremely loose adaptation of a PKD novel move on . As this has almost absolutely zilch to do with the book . For the most part this film was a fun , albeit absurdest , bit of escapism . You know the kind strictly popcorn-munching check your brain at the door type fare . Cage was likable as always and I somehow bought him in the role . Julianne was a bit less believable , but one could tell that she did the best with what little the script gave her . Jessica , well let's simply say Miss Biel isn't in the biz on account of her acting ability and when he looks go so does her career and leave it at that . I was into the film , yea , but then IT happened . IT being the horrible ending that simply moots everything that came before . It's an ugly cop-out that soured the whole film for me and a reason i'd likely never watch the movie again . The putrid aftertaste was so pungent that I choose to skip the extras housed on the DVD completely ( a rarity for me ) , opting instead to get it out of my DVD player and send it back to netflix with an unrivaled quickness .
Lake of Ineptitute	Rebecca leaves for a night of drinking wanting to be home by ten but her mom essentially says , and I might be paraphrasing here " no hon go whore around , we don't want to see you back till late " . Of course she gets the message and sleeps with the first guy who gives he a kind of semi-compliment . As she'staking it all like the slut she is , her parents die of a horrible acting um . . I mean a gas leak . She goes to the cabin by the lake to get rid of her guilt , not before picking up a hitchhiker that she'll later screw ( her parents would be proud ) A mixture of bad and TERRIBLE acting , as well as some crappy split screen . What had the chance to be a perfectly good mediocre movie crashes and burns . Eye Candy : Tatum Adair gets topless
Parker lewis can't lose but Richard Speck sure can	Yet another low-budget film ' based ' on an infamous killer This time It's Richard Speck again ( an earlier 2002 movie already had mined the same territory ) To refresh a bit , Speck was the nut who killed eight student nurses from South Chicago Community Hospital on one ill-fated night . While this film does go into a tad more detail on his life than the earlier " Speck " , it still choose to omit enough that it feels like a cliff-note edition . Also the film suffers from horrid editing , lousy acting ( save for Corin Nemec , who does a fairly adequate job ) , horror genre mainstays Tony Todd , Debbie Rochon , and Andre Divoff are all terribly wasted . All of the aforementioned make this one a chore to sit through and one I couldn't recommend at all . Eye Candy : Kelsey McCann Where i saw it : Fearnet on Demand
the deepening ineptness	After an extremely badly lit double murder we move on to the meat of the movie , Ted ( Director Ted Alderman ) is a firefighter whom transfers out of New York to a small town , after stress from gets to him . Jim ( writer / co-director Jim O ' Rear ) is the only fellow firefighter who befriends him while the others think he's damaged goods . Not to soon afterwords those close to Jim start to die by the hands of a killer in firefighter gear . Tieing this low-budget slasher to the events of is supremely tacky at best , so the less said of that plot point the better . The acting , while lousy , is somewhat forgivable given the sub-genre , but the mystery of who the killer is is painfully obvious from the get go and no amount of nudity ( Jim beds the majority of girls in the cast , good use of writing / co-directing there ) or blood can keep the boredom of the film from creeping in . Also there was a 2 to three minute conversation in the film where the soundtrack totally overwhelmed the talking for no discernible reason whatsoever , that was just plain annoying . Eye Candy : Maria Kil shows boobs , butt & bush ; Christy McMahan , Debbie D , Debbie Rochon , Latrice Shokunbi , & Lanee Landry get topless Where I saw it : Netflix online via Xbox 360
Awful	Inside Out contains 9 stories most of them deathly dull . 1 : ' Brush Strokes ' Drama-Jack , a painter , chooses to paint a nude Terry ( Barbara Alyn Woods from the Honey , I shrunk the kids TV show ) 2 : ' Shrink Rap ' : Drama - Beth Hogan tells her Psychiatrist about a rape fantasy she has . 3 : ' Doubletalk ' : Comedy-Girl ( Marta Kober ) and Guy on a date , go back to his place where they speak their thoughts 4 : ' Leda ' : Scifi-In an outer space prison ship Bethany ( Sherri Rose ) , cheats on her computer lover5 : ' My Secret Moments ' : Comedy-Chana Jael Chisa masturbates . . secretly6 : ' Life is for the Taking ' : Scifi - Charlie , a prison inmate tries asto-projection to see if his wife , Linda is being faithful . ( best of the segments , not saying much though ) 7 : ' the Diaries ' : Drama-A guy gets off on seeing his wife with other men in secret . 8 : ' Love the One You're with ' : comedy - couple speak in generalities ( The worst of the segments , and that's saying A lot ) 9 : ' My better Half ' : Comedy-A guy sleeps with his own feminine side . Eye Candy : Marie Chambers , Chana Jael Chiesa , Marta Kober , Sherrie Rose , Cec Verrell , Kimberly Ryusaki , Neith Hunter , Rachel Ryan and Barbara Alyn Woods each show various amounts of skin
Men are EVIL movie # 1 , 854	A newlywed couple move into a new house and the feminine half ( AJ Cook ) of said couple believes that their is something askew with their new neighbors . Playing out like any given made-for Lifetime-esquire movie , the film has all the stereotypes and clichés of type of film . Battered woman ? check , all the men all either evil or complacent in said evil ? double check . And as such is a predictably boring mess . I didn't care about anything that happened in the film including the so-called ' hero ' who came off as a daft silly little cooze . the crazy ( the actress , not the stuck-up part she played in this film ) Sean Young did nothing to add that much into the movie .
Like a Lifetime Network movie but with tits	Kari Wuhrer is Jennefer , a spousally battered woman , who takes to the streets of Toranto to escape her past where she meets Ola ( Rae Dawn Chong ) a ' hooker with a heart of gold ' who takes her under her wing . Of course it's only a matter of time before Jen starts turning tricks herself , which she does . But the mean old pimp ( Lou Diamond Phillips , marginally better here than he was in " Bats " ) may mess up the budding relationship that Jen and Olga are starting up ( yea they're lesbian ' girl power ' yay ) . Lance Henriksen is also on hand , and sadly wasted , as a cop . If you took out the nudity ( which would also cut out any reason why any guy would watch this ) , this would make a film that Lifetime would LOVE . Eye Candy : Kari Wuhrer gets fully nude ( you have to sit through pretty much all of this turd to see it though ) ; Amber Lea Weston shows her right tit extremely briefly , and Rea Dawn Chong gets topless ( ok , the last one isn't really a selling point ) Where I saw it : FLIX
the law of diminishing returns	Small town girl Daisy ( Miriam McDonald of Degrassi : The Next Generation fame ) attempts to start anew , leaving her steady boyfriend and country life to go to a New England college . She soon becomes embroiled in the manipulation of the secretive feminist Ivy Society , a clandestine club who has many members as well as finds a new love interest in Blake , the dean's son . Having nothing at all to do with the first three Poison Ivy films , this is merely a slightly below average soft-core ( the DVD sexes up the version that debuted on television ) female version of " the Skulls " . If you've seen that aforementioned film or any of the others of it's ilk , nothing here will catch you by a surprise , as it's simply a paint-by-numbers type of affair . Seeing Miriam shed some clothes might be worthwhile for fans of hers , but that's all there is to recommend this movie . Eye Candy : Miriam McDonald & Shawna Waldron both get topless ; 2 extras also get topless DVD Extras : No extras for the movie itself but an anti-piracy psa ; corporate schilling for Blu-Ray ; trailers for " Alien Raiders " , " Friday the 13th " , " Wonder Woman " ; " Where the fk is Santa ? " , & the X-box 360 games " Tomb Raider : Underworld "
worst use of CGI that I ever witnessed	a drilling platform off the Gulf of Mexico raises the worst , most incompetent CGI sea creature that you're likely ever to see from deep under the ground . It breaks free of the containment that it's being held in and goes on a rampage . Apparently it can change people's perception of reality to ( I have no clue either ) . The government is trying to keep this particular oil rig secret , if only the Producers of Jim Wynorski's latest in a LONG series of awful movies dating back to 1990 ( when he made his last enjoyable film ) opted to do the same thus sparing us 94 minutes of our lives that will never be returned . Avoid this incompetent trash like Paula Poundstone and you were an orphan . The thing is if it wasn't for the CGI it wouldn't be THAT bad . Don't get me wrong it would still suck , just not as much . Eye Candy : Glori-Anne Gilbert dances topless for no reason whatsoever
Man oh man , these Vamps suck	What do you get when you throw in " Leprechaun in da hood " minus the leprechaun and mixing in vampires that are pretty fang-less , and adding a pinch of lesbians for no good reason other than to have lesbians in the mix ( I'll bet dollars to donuts that the producers dictated that they be in there somewhere ) ? Well i'll tell you what you get . Pure unadulterated crap . Not even good crap , the kind you could enjoy if properly inebriated . But the kind of filth that is just hard to watch on account of the overly melodramatic acting , loopy stunted dialog , and illogical storyline . Notice how I didn't particularly go into the plot line of this putrid number . There's a reason for that , this being that I'd rather not think back on this wasted hour and a half that I will NEVER get back from my life no matter how hard I try . And the sad thing is that there actually are worse movies dealing with vampires out there . And that , my friend , is a sad state of affairs indeed . Where I Saw it : Starz on Demand Eye Candy : Janet Martin , Claire Mills , Ariana Fronti , and Meghan Stansfield all get topless
farther besmirches the name of the original Behind Enemy Lines	Two navy seals ( Joe Manganiello & Mr . Kennedy ) who , along with three others , have been sent to investigate some shady deals in Colombia have to rescue one of their own after he's captured by terrorists in an ambush , as well as avenge two other fellow seals who've died in the same raid . If that's not bad enough Colombian officials have blaming them for the killings ( and the CIA isn't arguing ) . Yet another brain numbing , badly acted , action-oriented WWE film hoping to propel one of their wrestlers into stardom utterly fails . The action is marginally all right at best , but the script itself is lacking . The first Behind Enemy Lines was a fun , decent watch , the second was a muddled disaster , this one is much more the latter than the former . And as much as I truly want to say that I'll avoid WWE films from now on ( which is understandable ) , I'm still going to watch 12 Rounds if only for my fondness of Director Renny Harlin . So when I think I'm out , they pull me right back in . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Tim Matheson , and actors Jom Manganiello & Mr . Kennedy ; Second commentary by IGN Fans ; 6 featurettes with a play all option ( running 38 minutes in total ) ; and trailers for " Babylon AD " , " X-files : I want to believe " , " Joy Ride 2 " & " the Betrayed "
too little Rambone	Dick Rambone gets mad when he founds out that his girlfriend , Suzy Q ( Rachel Ryan ) has been abducted by a white slavery ring . , infuriatingly he doesn't find out until late in the movie , and as such his screen time is minimum . the 2 scenes Rambone has are OK , well until Dead Eye joins and won't stop talking about how big Rambone's member is . URGH ! ! The film could've done without Steve Power's super annoying over-the-top Dead Eye henchman character . If that's not bad enough , you can even hear the Director giving directions every now and then . Strictly amateur hour . The theme song is absolutely 80's though . My Porn
one of the worst games I beat twice	Xbox 360's achievement point system is both a blessing and curse . When you become addicted you can find great games that normally you wouldn't have given a chance . On the flip side you also play a lot of fairly awful games , This cheaply made movie cash in being squarely in the latter category . A lackluster storyline , awful static camera ( it's fixed , and you can't control it at all ) , VERY limited replayability , and it being so damn easy all combine in a sea of banality that you'll dislike as much as I . Definitely not worth a buy and barely worth a rent ( due to the aforementioned achievement points , which are beating the game on normal , hard , and finding the one secret egg per level ) . It may not be E . T landfill bad , but it's close . I got 1 , , 000 easy points from the ' game ' but lost a piece of my sanity . My total 360 Gamerscore : 47226 out of a possible 84270
Dora the explorer ( of really crappy kills )	After a quasi-Gothic , all-fruity music video , the movie starts with Cassidy the lead singer killing herself . In a perfect world that would be that and the end credits would roll . We don't live n that world . The insipid band members decide to go to some clown to contact her dead essence . When I say clown , I mean actual clown . He tell them they're all going to die via Cassidy's ghost ( the spirit possesses Dora , one of the band-mates ) We couldn't care less as the characters are all boring , vapid , and extremely horribly acted . Written by Adam Hackbarth ( an incredibly apropos surname if there ever was one ) , and directed by Corbin Timbrook ( who after The attendant , and Tower of blood , HAS to know that he keeps making crap for a living ) , this movie s a constant battle between the film's incompetence and the viewer's need to stay awake . Not enough blood to appease gore-hounds , nor enough nudity to satisfy pervs . This movie in fact has absolutely nothing to recommend to absolutely anyone . Eye Candy : Amanda Carraway gets topless Where i saw it : Starz on Demand
horrible	Shiri Appleby is the cutest little embodiment of evil turned good girl demon-kicking Buffy clone , Elle . But I'm getting ahead of myself , you see Lilith was the first woman made by god as a companion to Adam . But she got all uppity evil feminist so god banished her from Eden . A clandestine order known as The Fath captures her but doesn't kill her , so now with amnesia ( which is not really explained that well ) Lilith ( now Elle ) is free to become the aforementioned Buffy-clone who has to battle with a mad scientist who got an injection of Lilith's blood . If the previous paragraph sounded hideously convoluted , that's because it is . The movie is also dull , generic , and for a film with a plot steeped in theology it doesn't seem to know a lick about it . This bargain basement lousy-CGIed movie was apparently a failed series pilot . All I can say to the fact that it didn't get picked up is a resounding Amen . DVD Extras : Commentary by Writer / Director Bill Platt and Co-writer Chris Regina ; and Stills gallery ; video effects samples : before & after ( it also has an " also available " selection that you would THINK would lead you to some trailers , but nope on DVD covers for other films , which is a stupid idea ) DVD-ROM extras : Final shooting script and Deleted scenes transcript both in PDF format
Betrayal was their first mistake , renting this movie was mine	Nick Browning ( Levi Oliver ) is a disgraced ex-cop whose daughter has gone missing , his one and only goal being finding her for him and his estranged wife . After butting heads with his former colleague Fred Mears ( Rowdy Roddy Piper ) , he soon finds himself deeply involved in a conspiracy involving some people in high places . This movie is Slow-moving with an over emphasis on ' slow ' . Playing out like some high-school level ' charecter study ' but with the same level of acting one would expect from that . The ' action ' in the last half hour or so is far too little , far too late to save this movie . If i could sum up it and relate it to other EXTREMMELY better movie I'd say it's akin to " Cop Land " meets " Walking Tall " but that would sully the name of those two great films . Just awful . Eye Candy : Gratuitous breast shot from an extra at about the 39 minute mark in a vain attempt to wake the viewer up ( it doesn't work ) DVD Extras : Promo trailer for this film ; and Trailers for " Revamped " , " Grayson Arms " , & " Study Hell "
not really worth your time	This Cartoon Network special can be found as an extra on disk 3 of the " Looney Tunes Golden Colection Volume 1 " and is certainly a mixed bag of old " lost " cartoons . Contain greats like the Private Snafu short " Spies " and " Drafty , isn't it ? " The lackluster propeganda of " Anys bonds today ? " and " So much for so little " ( the latter actually making me mad , the former just being boring ) . And the sheer crappiness of " Cryin ' for the Carolines " and the much-deserved canned pilot " Philbert " . So definitely a mixed bag , but I'm leaning towards telling you to save your time . If you DO watch it just skip to the two great shorts that I've mentioned .
another Harry Novak produced turd	An ambitious mobster , Marko , makes the local brothel into a rousing success after double-crossing the mafia Don . This of course angers certain people who come after him . . As you suspect with a Harry Novak produced film , the plot is secondary to the sex and nudity . A strange note the Director , William Rotsler , of this film also wrote for " The Real Ghostbusters " cartoon show . Wild stuff . Furthermore anyone who rents this movie wanting Uschi Digard will be VERY disappointed as she has only one scene . It also comes paired with the movie " Below the Belt " on the Something Weird DVD . DVD Extras : Commentary by Harry Novak and Friends ; Short Subjects : " I , Uschi " and " Uschi meets Dracula " ; Gallery of Exploitation art ; Gallery of exploitation photos ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Below The Belt " , " Bust Out " , " Fugitive Girls " , " The Mafia Gang " , " The Manhandlers " , " Prison Girls " , " A Scream in the Streets " , and " Up your Valley " Easter Egg : " Tittilated Tex " Trailer Eye Candy : Nearly every woman gets naked , but only a select few show full frontal
inDEEDly unwatchable	In this completely unnecessary and pathetic remake of the classic " Mr . Deeds goes to Town " , Adam Sandler stars as Longfellow Deeds a small time business owner who after inheriting a huge sum of money heads for the big city , where Winona Ryder , kleptomaniac that she is , steals his heart as a two-faced reporter . . Director Steven Brill has proved time and time again that he's incompetent and that his ineptitude knows no end with such travesties as Ready to Rumble , the mighty ducks films , and Heavy Weights . This piece of cinematic excrement is no exception . Even the usually great John Turturro is pretty much wasted here . Unfunny , unwatchable , and thoroughly unwatchable . DVD Extras : 6 Deleted Scenes ; 3 featurettes ; Dave Matthew music video ; Outtake reel ; Greeting cards ; Filmographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " 8 Crazy Nights " , " Master of Disguise " , " Men in Black 2 " , and " I Spy " ( similiar in that they all suck ) DVD-Rom : Script to screen ; and web-links ( one which doesn't work Due to the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 ) Easter Egg : highlight the " Mandrake Falls Fire Department Volunteer " symbol for a short clip of Sandler during an orchestra session
inept in every way	A group of scientists looking for a cure for cancer , anger a big flabby black voodoo priest . So he does what all big flabby voodoo priests do , sends the legions of undead after them . All of them die , save for the little girl of one of the scientists . Now I'd think that seeing zombies rip open my parents would leave a scar on me . But the girl sees fit to go back to the exact island when she's older with a ragtag group of mercenaries only to have zombies once again appear . This film is inept in every single possible way . The plot doesn't make one iota of sense . The acting's atrocious . The special effects bargain basement . And it has no heart so it isn't fun . Director Claudio Fragasso and Writer Rossella Drudi would later prove they can do EVEN worse when they made one of the worst films EVER made with " Troll 2 " DVD Extras : Linier Notes ; Claudio Fragasso Bio ; Interviews with Candice Daly , Jeff Styker , and Claudio Fragasso ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Zombi 3 " , " House on the Edge of the Park " , and " Eaten Alive " Easter Egg : Bonus American trailer for " Zombi 2 "
epic fail	After high school Track & Field athelete , Laura Remstead , dies of natural causes during a race ( an event that is shown multiple times , in slow-motion none-the-less ) , an unknown killer is murdering all the people who were on that same aforementioned team close to Graduation Day ( hence the name ) in this laughably inept slasher flick . It brings absolutely nothing new ( or even good ) to the slasher table , instead opting to merely unleash the most god-awful song I've heard in quite some time with ' Gangster Rock ' being played in a roller-disco party that went on far too long . Eye Candy : Denise Cheshire & Linnea Quigley get topless
Lake Dreadful	Three sisters , upon learning that their Grandfather that they never knew has recently died and left them a motel , decide to take a road trip with some friends to the property not knowing that some deviant lunatics are awaiting them there . Imagine " The Hills have Eyes " and " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . Now imagine if those films had no wit , no finesse , and were deathly boring . OK now you have a good idea what to expect if you're forced to endure this crappy little film . Easily one of the worst of the second crop of " 8 films to die for " that I've seen thus far ( I've seen 4 of them including this ) Eye Candy : Malea Richardson provides the T &
They also excrete	A horror film involving a killer worm that seems to be more concerned with a love triangle between the characters of nice guy Andy , secretive Tina , and verbally abusive Eddie . Eddie gets with Pam as well so maybe it's a love rectangle . Who the hell knows ? or rather more honestly , who the hell cares ? ? All the characters are not particularly likable enough to pull it off and I found my interests waning between the all too seldom ' worm attacks ' I can forgive any given low-budget film many things , but boredom is not one of them . Where I saw it : Netflix rentalRegion 1 DVD Extras : Promotional trailer ; and Stills gallery
' The Asylum ' flat out HATES horror movie fans	Christopher Vale witnesses his mother brutally raped and killed before being hideously burned and being sent to a mental asylum . Years later some local dweebs get together and throw a party in a nearby cabin . But good old Chris has escaped from the nut-hut to terrorize them . This ' Asylum ' outfit has produced 50 some movies , you'd think one of this would be actually watchable , right ? ? ? Well you'd be wrong as this film's as awful as all the other films under their banner . It doesn't help that Micheal Gingold's story is hopelessly contrived , dreadfully acted , and deathly dull . I don't mean to single out Gingold exclusively ( I'm still sore from suffering through " Leeches " ) . Oh no , the blame can be spread liberally from the director who has yet to make a decent film on down to the atrocious acting and further down to the sloppy editing and mediocre special effects . Awful with a resounding capital A . Eye Candy : Jan Anderson , Alicia Klein , Stephanie Medina , Erica Roby , and Amanda Ward all got topless . ( but you can see Stephanie's twin talents in the MUCH , MUCH better low-budget film " the Janitor " )
Why does the talented Englund continue to sign on for Tobe Hooper's crap ? ? ? ?	Wow , talk about an extremely apropo tag-line as indeed there IS a fate worse than death and that fate would revolve around having to watch this film ( or its unfathomable two sequels ) about a killer laundry folding machine that enjoys eating people . Horrible in nearly every aspect and isn't even unintentially funny , so the one enjoyment that could have been had is taken away from us . This was the worst thing I saw Robert Englund in since an episode of the inappropriately misleadingly titled " Masters of Horror " , funnily enough THAT was directed by Tobe Hooper as well . And I won't even mention " Night Terrors " . Mr . Englund , you're an amazing actor , now PLEASE never collaborate with Hooper ever EVER again , he's dragging you down , man . As for why I'm giving this more than just one measly star is ONLY to convey that " Troll 2 " is STILL the worst movie ever made . Where i saw it : Cinemax
quit your jibberjab	This 21 minute documentary on the making of the movie " Mallrats " can be found on the now out of print Collector's Edition of that aforementioned movie . Featuring interviews with various cast and crew members their's a lot of pathetic comments thrown around like how the film would be a " smart Porky's " which is sacrilege as far as I'm concerned as Porky's is and always will be a classic , whereas Mallrats isn't and never will be one . Kevin Smith also tells of how the " powers that be " screwed his movie up . Kevin , be a man , and live up to your mistakes . While we're at it take blame for your crappy " Jersey Girl " . It didn't bomb because of some Bennifer thing . It bombed because you're a one-trick pony and you strayed from said one-trick of dick and fart jokes . Deflate your ego a tad bit , bro . Back to the documentary , I learned nothing from it .
so bad , SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO bad	A photographer strangles homely models after he photographs them he then meets a ugly girl who strangles bums . Really not much more of a plot and aside from some narration added in post production . This is a stupid stupid film and if I hadn't already watched " Schizophreniac : The Whore Mangler " , I would have thought it the worst serial killer film I had ever seen . But I DID see the aforementioned film so this one while still horrid , doesn't seem bad in comparison . The ONLY way to watch this travesty would be with the Joe Bob Briggs commentary on or not at all . DVD Extras : Movie Intro & Commentary by Joe Bob Briggs ; Second commentary by Ray Steckler ; Interviews with Steckler & Caroline Brandt ; Production stills & poster art ; and trailers for " Blood Shack " , " Adventure of Rat Pfink and boo boo " , " Slaughter Hotel " , and " Nightmare come at Night " Eye Candy : Joanne Hiatt , Lori Morrir , Snowy Sinclair , Bonnie Smith , and Jean Robert all get topless
uniquely bad	Retelling the true crime story of former Los Angeles Raiders cheerleader and model Linda Sobek who was murdered by photographer Charles Rathburn . Combining real-life trial footage and news interviews with fictionalized recreations all told from the point of view of Sobek's spirit ( Trudi Jo Marie Keck ) , this film definitely takes a unique way of telling the story . However ' unique ' only goes so far . The constant flash-backs , flash-forwards & splicing of real footage with acted performers is jarring and doesn't really work . Keck can't hold the film together as her acting in this film is atrocious . The editing equally bad and Newsom's directing of the whole film is rather dire . And on a nit picky note , the box cover states " Based on the True Story that shocked the Nation " while I , keeping fairly abreast of the news , haven't even heard of the case . Even when I did find out about it ( through this film ) and research it , I can't say I was shocked in the least . Saddened , yes . Heart gone out to the family , definitely . Shocked , not so much . This film does a great disservice to her memory though . Where i saw it : Instant Netflix via my X-box 360
Mark-Paul might be saved by the bell , but he needed to be saved by his agent	A child of extraterrestrial origins is found walking through the fires of a burning building . He's promptly adopted , but still has questions about where he came from . Years later , the boy , now a young man ( played by Mark-Paul Gosselaar of Saved by the Bell fame ) can start fires with his mind and frequently dreams of his forgotten earlier life while he submerges himself in bathtub water . Another alien ( Douglas O'Keeffe ) wants to get the young man back . With shades of much better films ( such as Firestarter , the Terminator , and even Starman ) , this movie can't help but epicly fail in comparison . It doesn't help that the film spots horrendous acting ( especially by Gosselaar and O'Keeffe extremely sub-par special effects , and a plot that is a clichéd muddled mess . This is one movie that makes those that are made for the Sci-fi channel ( I refuse to call it by the insanely stupid SyFy moniker , but that's another rant ) look of Oscar-caliber . That's no hyperbole , this movie is just that bad . Eye Candy : Carmelina Lamanna gets fully nude My Grade :
when music stars go bad	Roger Daltrey of The Who , has to leave town . So he lets his snoop untrusting wheelchair-bound wife alone with her sister . Of course the wife acts like a pre-teen girl & starts a fight with a psycho hacker who wants to kill them . It's up to Huey Lewis of Huey Lewis fame to save her before it's too late . When one watches a Nico Mastorakis film one doesn't expect a logical story or likable characters or any semblance of a good movie . Those that watch Mastorakis's films are pretty much sexists who like to test their endurance of crap . This film is no different in that respect . Where i saw it : Showtime on demand
too long	This featurette does show more then the first extra on " The One " disk I've just reviewed . It goes into how long the filming lasted , the techniques that went into the film , such as the different can of cable wires they used for the kung-fu sequences and how the nature of the film itself was changed when Dwane ' The Rock ' Johnson was replaced by Jet Li . Sadly like the story of The Three Bears , whereas the first extra was too short , this one is too long . Hopefully the last featurette will be just right but I doubt it . There's only so much one can learn from a crappy movie . It also shows that there was way to much CGI in the film . This long 19 minute featurette can be found on the Special Edition of " The One "
The Small Fizzle	Con man Owen Wilson takes a job with D . A . Morgan Freeman after braining his former employer's foreman with a baseball bat . And starts an affair with the mistress of a well known businessman . I read Elmore Leonard avidly and I've seen most of the movies that were based on his stories , however I've never seen the original version of " The Big Bounce " . That being said , this is in the running for the worst of them . It's neck and neck with " Touch " . Do yourself a favor and watch the great " Out of Sight " , " Jackie Brown " , " Get Shorty " , " 52 Pick-up " or " 3 : 10 to Yuma " and steer clear of this failed attempt . Failed because it's not fun in the least and predictable . Where I saw it : Starz on Demand Eye Candy : the stunning Sara Foster shows fleeting breast and buns
boring	Five young adults head off to Mexico in search of some waves that one of the group's brother said were great down there . But when they get there the brother and his friends are nowhere to be found . They soon clash with demented ( possibly demoniacally infected ) locals . The acting was serviceable if nothing special , the mere fact that this is a low-budget film , i can ignore that . What I couldn't ignore was the lack of good lighting were a good portion of the movie or the reliance on shaky-cam shots during the action scenes of the film . Or , for that matter , the surprising lack of gore . What we're left with is a somewhat boring travelogue of Mexican scenery for a good part of the movie and inane banter . Skip it and rent " Turistas " or something else better that this movie is akin to . Eye Candy : Joleigh Fioreavanti gets topless Where I saw it : Netflix online view
Rushed and awful	Lame , unfunny , unnecessary sequel that was rushed into production just to capitalize on the original when it because a surprise sleeper hit . Cindy , Ray , Shoty & Brenda are back this time they all find themselves being tricked into going to a haunted mansion . Where as the first film was actually watchable and pretty funny , this one is neither . And at less then an hour and a half , it's still of battle of willpower to sit through . Tottally rancid on just about every level , waisting the combined talents of the usually reliable David Cross , Chris Elliot , Tim Curry , Andy Richter , and James Woods ( the last is the only slightly amusing aspect of this waste of film ) . Unwatchable . DVD Extras : 22 Deleted and Alternate scenes ( 43 and a half minutes ) ; Behind the scenes featurette ; featurettes in special effects , makeup , scary effects , & Killer cat ; A Dimension compilation trailer ; and Trailers for Gangs Of New York , 40 Days And 40 Nights , Scary Movie , Scream Trilogy , Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood , & Senseless DVD-ROM Features : Screenplay Viewer , Character profiles ; and online trivia game
Art-house exploitation	Kitty Kellermann ( Ingrid Thulin ) runs a bordello for the Nazis in WW2 where numerous atrocities are committed . An army official has bugged the place hoping to usurp power from Hitler . It has amputee sex , midget sex , and hunchback coupling . Bothed home made abortions and it's not a straight out exploitation film , nope not when Tinto " over-rated hack " Brass is concerned . Nope this is an art-house flick through and through . It's also excruciatingly long , impossably tedious and mundane , hopelessly dreary , and given to subject matter , deathly dull . Of course a few years later , Tinto would prove that he could fail on a much bigger global scale with " Caligola " DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Tinto Brass Bio ; International and US theatrical Trailers Disc 2 ) Interviews with Tinto Brass , and Production Designer Ken Adam ; 3 radio spots ; Poster & stills gallery ; Production & Costume designs DVD-Rom : Complete book " the Story of Madame Kitty "
It's apropos that a film about a demolition turns out to be such a devastating bomb	The O . C . ' s Mischa Barton stars as Sam Walczak , a demolition engineer whom first job is to demolish a building located in the desolate swamps of Scotland . Upon arriving she finds that the building isn't as empty as she was led to believe ( some tenants have inexplicably stayed ) , as well as the fact that the location may very well be haunted by the victims of the people that the architect of said building happened to entombed within it's walls . What started off as a slightly intriguing original story soon and all too readily devolved into a badly acted , scare-free , soap opera-ish . Barton does absolutely nothing to entice the viewer's waning interest and her co-stars ( some of whoms acting is laughably bad ) are not any better . Just when you think it can't get any worse , one of the characters ( who shall remain nameless as to avoid spoilers ) falls down a hole and it does . . . Perhaps with better acting , a more cohesive story , some scares and better directing , this film might have worthwhile to watch , as it stands now , that's sadly quite simply not the case . ( and don't even get me started on the ending )
what a stupid name Marz is for a serial killer	A group of campers ( including Gaylen Ross from the original " Dawn of the Dead " are gathered around a campfire hearing the tale of Madman Marz , not before hearing it sung to them ( no , I only wish I was kidding ) . Marz is a ridiculous name and whenever anyone utters it ( which is very VERY often ) I cringed inside . Hell , I cringed at almost ever ludicrous line of dialog . Why Joe Giannone would hate all of humanity enough to inflict this on us , is a mystery for the generations . The only worse ' 80's slasher I've seen was " Don't go in the Woods " My Grade : Eye Candy : Gaylen Ross gets topless VERY briefly
Bah Humbug	This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 , it feature Sylvester cat who I like , Tweety bird who I'm not a fan of , and Granny whom I dislike worse then Tweety bird . Needless to say I really didn't care for this cartoon at all . It's nice that it's unedited for once . But couldn't they unedit the audio for " Bugs Bunny Rides Again " which was actually a good cartoon as well , or at least instead of ? . Anyway in this short , it's Christmas time in the household and Granny , Tweety , Sylvester , and the Bulldog ( for no reason whatsoever ) are up to the usual stuff . Blah .
first Katrina and now this . . . . poor new Orleans	Mexican drug-lord Santiango ( Armando Leduc ) escapes from prison looking for the 15 million dollars he asked his girl to hold on to for him , but she skipped town . Enter Travis ( Ameer Baraka ) , a cop , who protects the girl from the evil drug-lord . Travis's partner Ray ( Kris Kristofferson ) is close to retirement and hopes to enjoy it with his young wife . Poor New Orleans , first Katrina and now this . There's just too many disasters a town can take . From the heavily clichéd storyline to the horrible acting to the swiss cheese filled movie logic , this film is simply amateur hour and is quite a chore to watch indeed . Only for MAJOR DMX fans ( he's not a lead despite getting top billing ) all others steer clear of this disaster . DVD Extras : none at all
like a late-night Cinemax ' erotic thriller ' WITHOUT the titillation	In this strictly paint-by-numbers direct to video thriller , Detective Max Garret ( Stephen Baldwin ) is assigned to protect Laura Cross ( Kristy ' I STILL refuse to get nude ' Swanson ) . Of course even though he's married to a stunning women , he feels chemistry with Laura and vice versa . It's not really that interesting when red herrings are thrown at the viewer AFTER you know who the killer is . This film was tedious to sit through and extremely uninvolving . All the actors were just going through the paces . When i found out one of the writers was responsible for the dreck known as " Naked Lies " it all clicked into place . No wonder the film was so bad . It's like a Skinamax erotic thriller WITHOUT the sex ( there IS one scene but it's VERY tame ) IE . totally worthless . Eye Candy : Gladys Jimenez gets topless , but her scenes in " Blowback " were better
Where's Earthworm Jim when u need him ? ?	A town is besieged with killer earthworms . Yes as ridiculous as it sounds . Ah , Jeff Lieberman , damn him for making crap like " The Never Ending Story 3 " , " Remote Control " , and " The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd " shudders . Makes me think his " Blue Sunshine " was a one-off , in that I actually sorta kinda vaguely liked it . This film does NOTHING to dispel my feelings of the director , if anything it makes me loathe him more . The opening theme song is the worst I've EVER heard on any movie soundtrack in my life . And that's counting ' Puberty Love ' from " Attack of the Killer Tomatoes " . So right from the start , it's off on the wrong track . It doesn't get better , folks . When i was a kid , this movie scared the stuffing out of me . Well some good memories should definitely be left at that . DVD Extras : R-rated version ; Commentary by Jeff Lieberman ; Theatrical Trailer ; and TV spot Eye Candy : Patricia Pearcy shows one breast
Well it will have you snoozing	Gary , a rather bad dime-store romance novelist , soon after watching a sensationalist tabloid news show about the recent rash of people that have been dying in their sleep , is worried about his girlfriend who is having trouble sleeping ( he's an insomniac himself ) So when his war veteran neighbor tells him about the Sandman he's frightened ( not by the vet's story , more his demeanor ) add to this the fact that Gary's worthless leech of a cousin has just moved in to his trailer . It's no wonder he's on edge . When he starts seeing the Sandman everyone think he's going crazy . . . . . at first . The pacing of this movie is so extremely slow that it desperately needed a great story to make up for it . Sad to say , the plot is supremely sub-par as well . I quite enjoyed the director's previous " the Dead Next Door " film , however this one is a stinker , and included way too much filler . The filler being so very bad ( time spent on Gary's ' kooky ' neighbors and a rather idiotic talk show being the chief offenders ) To further compound my misery there wasn't any gore , nor nudity to attempt to liven the preceding up .
generic , forgettable , and very bad	Brinke Stevens is only in the film for all of seven minutes or so during the pre-credits sequence . A group of seven friends take a trip up to the camping grounds in Whitewater River , discount the legend of a local nut who escaped from a mental facility who only murders on full moons of leap years ( never mind the fact that the majority of the people who die , do so in the daytime ) as a mere myth . Of course their cell phones don't work this far into the woods , so they're easy pickings for this gas-mask clad killer This is a completely generic extremely low-budget slasher film . The killer has a resemblance to the one in " My Bloody Valentine " ( which is a vastly superior film in every way and doesn't do this film any favors by drawing the comparisons to it ) One doesn't care for any of the potential victims and thus lacks any tension whatsoever . This film is about as lifeless as the bodies after the killer is finished with them . Furthermore , it's not even worth it for Brinke Stevens ' fans due to her very minuscule part . Where I Saw it : Netflix online via Xbox 360
how could a film with midgets be so bad ? ? ! ! ?	In the future of the 1990's , men are impotent and the President has no clue why . So he along with his cabinet head down to another country to see if they really are not impotent like Mr . Sugerman says . It turns out Mr . Sugerman is an alien out for global domination . It's up to another alien named Ultra Flesh ( Seka ) to cure the men of the World by shooting an erection beam from her . . . well I can't say on IMDb and still adhere to their guidelines . I've never been much a fan of Seka and found Angel Cash as the First lady much more appealing . I found this as boring as the only other Svetlana directed film that I have seen " Miami Spice " My Porn
The Key to happiness is to avoid this film	A group of friends go to an abandoned building under the belief that they'll be shooting a documentary on it's haunted past , but Dylan , the guy who spearheaded going up to the apartment , really has plans to search for a hidden treasure within the house , supposedly , \ hidden by his grandfather who was a Freemason . They instead find a key than opens the portal to hell . The acting is awful , the plot line extremely cliché and unoriginal , the action takes forever to get started and when it does it solicited no more than bored indifference from me . This film has no redeeming value and borders ever so slightly on being unwatchable .
repackaged crap	A group of human looking aliens going to Earth to eat crash land on a planet of prehistoric beasts instead where they all eat physcedelic mushrooms and act retarded . Padded with footage from " Planet of the Dinosuars " and horrible jokes this is definitely one to miss . The acting is atrocious as well , and while this isn't as bad as " Chickboxer " ( what movie can be ? ) This is still pretty awful repugnant stuff . It's 90 minute running time feels like an eternity and you will likely be cursing life so do yourself a huge favor and just move on , skip this crappy film , there's nothing to see here . The film-makers try to resell this turd as a MST3K style making fun of the movie they made a decade before , and it works to an extent it's still nothing that watchable though , Ariauna Albright is hot , but Lilith Stabs has a pretty unattractive speaking voice . DVD Extras : Joke commentary , 17 Behind the scenes featurette ; 7 minute Into the black featurette ; Jessica Mills reporting ; Stills gallery ; and original trailer
Rancid Injustice	Sunny ( Finn Carter ) gathers her kick boxing girlfriends and a cop ( Marc ' the Beastmaster ' Colton ) to get revenge after her sister is killed by a toxic waste dumping creep by the name of Billy Joe ( the late Frank Gorshin known always as The Riddler from the old Batman show ) . We know he's ' evil ' from the get go because he smokes ( the horror , the horror ) . OK so technically she's killed by a dog , but if the movie was about a gang of women using martial arts against canines , the movie would probably be slightly sillier ( but probably marginally better ) So anyways , obviously all the pretty girls can kick any man's ass from here to there and they do in their quest to bring Billy Joe down . So I guess one could classify this as a feminist eco-friendly action flick with one gratuitous hot tub scene . You know the kind Steven Seagal would be making if he was still a valuable commodity . The first half of this film is deathly dull as nothing happen and the film moves at a snail's pace , so much so that when the ' action ' starts , even the most hardened B-movie veteran will be lulled to a near comatose state . This is one step above " Chickboxer " Eye Candy : Finn Carter , Kathleen Kinmont , and Cheryl Paris get topless Where i saw it : TM
precious minutes from my life I can NEVER get back	Amber , a bitter , spiteful , extremely vain ex-beauty model goes on her day by day wheelings and dealings as she's queen of her county after the apocalypse has come and gone . Sylvie ( Courtney Kocak ) narrates the film and tells her tale of how so met Amber . Gunner Hansen is also on hand as an old man who takes Sylvie in right after the world turns . If you ever hoped that good old Hansen would speak more in his movie roles , you're in luck as he goes on a lentghy monologue about getting old and his old hands . It made me hearken back to the days when he was mostly silent in actual good films as " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " & " Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers " . Mack-10 should REALLY just stick with rapping . But funnily enough those two are among the BETTER actors in this million dollar stinker . Quite possibly the worst movie based on the Elizabeth Bathory legend ever made . It takes a lot to make that particular story into something so deathly dull and lifeless . Yet this film accomplishes that task with rancid gusto . Pure art-house drivel .
No Contest that this is horrible	Shannon Tweed is back fighting terrorists , but this time Lance Henrikson fills in for both Rowdy Roddy Piper and Andrew Dice Clay . I prefer the first one , even though I like Henrikson as an actor . This one is tedious to sit through and not nearly as fun as the film that preceded it . The fights are put together in such a haphazard way that those are boring as well . Giving a casual glance to both the writers on this film , I shouldn't be surprised at how bad it was , as neither writer has done ANYthing even remotely good . Skip the snooze-fest . Rent the original instead , or better yet just watch the vastly superior Die Hard for the upturn time . My Grade :
lame film on the screen	Six friends plan to fix up an old house that one of them bought . But after one moron breaks the husband murdering previous owner's tombstone in half , she comes back to life and starts killing them . They in turn become zombies themselves . But they don't act like typical zombies in the least . Just the opposite some of them are positively chatty . Woulds like " low-budget " or " indy " or " can do spirit " does not translate into a good film . I don't care if someone spent all his money , or shed all his blood to make a film . If said film is a turd . I'll call it a turd . This isn't a total awful film , but it's damn near close to it .
lame	This 19 minute fan-film / Spoof of " Buffy the Vampire Slayer " , aside from having most of the characters being English ( aside from the Gile's counterpart who acts American ) , this really adds nothing and just wishes to get by on being an English version ( oh and a really crappy Star Wars bit ) Most of the cast is serviceable , except for Count Van Weldon who is hammy and awful throughout . I don't really have a clue why this was made . Obviously , the makers couldn't profit from it due to copyright . So I'm perplexed . Oh well , it woulda been 20 wasted minutes but it's 4 AM while I'm watching this , so I had nothing better to do .
worthless promo piece	I like Making of featurettes mainly when they're made in hind sight and in retrospective , and when I see one that's made and released before the film even comes out it just reeks of less of a Making of and more like a standard cut and paste promotional spot . Such is the case with this one that originally aired on the Cinemax network a week or so before the film was released theatrically . And as such these 13 minutes are pretty much worthless if you've already seen the movie itself and since it's found o the DVD release of it there's a rather good chance that you have . So skip this and do something better .
An idyllic childhood memory tarnished by cold hard reality	Piscopo and Treat Williams are two bumbling cops stumble across a scheme to bring the dead back to life . When Williams gets killed in the life of duty , he gets re-animated . Did I say that his character's name is Roger Mortis yet ? ? ( Not laughing yet ? ? Yeah neither am I ) Dead zombie cops , re-animated chickens I can buy . Joe Piscopo getting a paying job I'm sorry but my suspension of disbelief only stretches so far . I felt really bad for Vincent Price who has to slum in a worse film than " Bloodbath at the House of Death " ( I know I didn't think it possible either ) DVD Extras : Commentary by Mark Goldblatt , David Helpern , Micheal Meltzer & Terry Black ; 8 Deleted scenes ; Poster and Stills gallery ; storyboard gallery ; MIFED promo ; Electronic press kit ; Theatrical Trailer DVD-ROM : original screenplay in . PDF format
the Slasher version of " 1941 " ( high star power , terrible movie )	Should have known something was up when I saw Jon George and Neill Hicks to of the men responsible for the horrid " Escape 2000 " also wrote this one . This film is only good as a curiosity as many of the actors went onto MUCH better things . Adrian Zmed later starred in the great " Bachelor Party " , Lewis Smith starred in " Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai " , and Rachel Ward to the great HBO film " Fortress " . And that's not even mentioning Joey ' Pants ' Pantoliano or Daryl Hannah . But all that future star power can't save this hopelessly derivative , boring , tedious " horror " film about a group of teenagers on a forest trip with an unseen killer . Too low of a body count , no female flesh , , and no scares . For a slasher film to be watchable it doesn't take much , but this film somehow blows it .
a huge disappointment	What do you get when you combine the indisputable talents of Director Roland Joffe ( of the award winning " The Mission " , " The Killing Fields " ) and screenwriter Larry Cohen ( cult classics " Q " and " God Told me to " ) ? Sadly a rancid concoction of Torture porn that makes Eli Roth's sub-par Hostle look amazing in comparison . Horrible acting by all involved , a convoluted idiotic story , and a whopping dose of sheer sadism doom this ' movie ' before it even starts . You truly don't care about any of the characters in the least . With no one to root for , this becomes a exercise in tedium and a chore to watch . Now a moment of silence for both Joffe and Cohan please , you both were so good in the ' 80's , not so much in the ' 90's , but the new millennium is sadly the death-nail in both of your careers ( Creatively , if not financially )
huge letdown	I decided to give this one a try from the pretty positive reviews , silly me , I thought this tale of a mild mannered librarian turned psycho killer had some potential . But the sad truth was that everything about this mess of a film is simply awful . From the porn-caliber acting to the lame ass comedy . The special effects ( aka . Gore ) was all right , but the rest of the movie was so bad that mere words can't convey how utterly disastrous it is . I thought that having the legendary Gunner Hansen AND legend H G Lewis would be a good sign and I'd find a diamond in the rough . Alas , no I couldn't have been more wrong . Avoid this film at all costs as it can only bring you misery . I consider myself a huge B-movie horror fan and even I loathed this film . That should tell you something . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director / writer Jimmyo Burril , actress April Burril , and actor Shawn Jones : 30 minute documentary on the film ; an interview with Gunnar Hansen ; Story boards ; a music video ; promotional trailer ; and trailers for " Skin Crawl " , " Bacterium " , " Creature from the hillbilly lagoon " , " Chantel " , " Sinful " , " Shock-O-Rama " , " Feeding the Masses " , " Prison a go go " , " Bite me ! " , " Screaming Dead " , Suburben Nightmare " , " Slime City " , " Women's prison massacre " , " Criminally Insane " , " Satan's Black Wedding " , & " Nurse Sherry " Eye Candy : Lesley Vermot got topless
Kills via incompetence	The level of acting in the film about an ex-cop in the wilderness who only looks to kill the murderers of his family when the happen to stumble over him is atrocious . The action stunted . And the plot clichéd to no end . Fred Williamson is a cool actor , but as a director he just doesn't cut it . Avoid at all costs , the film is dreadful . This is my second time reviewing this as IMDb deletes stuff willy nilly now . Eye Candy : Lynneadams has a quick flash , and Annie Dufresne shows that fine Canadian bod of hers Where i saw it : Starz Mystery
Demoni 3 - Viewers 0	Two Americans and an English man brake down while driving in Brazil . They meet a couple & stay at a cursed house . Then the " Black Demons " ( or to the politically correct " African-American living-challenged ) , who are dead former slaves stick it to the Man by killing Whitey ( how's THAT for reparations ? ? ! ! ? ) . But not before one of the guys gets a necklace from a voodoo tribe for no reason . The acting is putrid at best and some ok death scenes can't liven up this jumbled mess . Shriekshow DVD Extras : Interviews with Umberto Lenzi ( where he denies making any Zombie movies , prompting anyone who saw this or " Nightmare City " to exclaim " Whatever Umberto " ) and Olga Pehar ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Killing Birds " , " Zombie 2 " , " Zombie 3 " , and " zombie 4 "
Torture to sit through	Oh when oh when will I learn not to let my absolute adoration of Lance Henrikson make me sit through even extremely bad films Ie . pretty much anything post - " Millennium " . This brain-dead little number is no different . Attempting to tie a Iraq war film with a supernatural ghost story may work on paper , but this is not paper and the result is an absolute mess that's nearly unwatchable . Bad acting , bad special effects , incoherent storyline . One can go right down the list of bad film-making 101 and put checks down it . The sad thing is I KNOW this won't be the last movie I watch from Henrikson , i still believe the guy rocks . But it will be the last Roel Reine flick that I watch . DVD Extras : Director's commentary ; One night on the set ; Alternate opening ; deleted scenes ; Trailer for this movie ; and trailers for " War , Inc . " , " Player 5150 " , " Day of the Dead " , " Three Days to Vegas " , " Jack & Jill Vs . the World " , " the Amateurs " , & " Rockaway "
I'd rather stick out my middle finger , than my thumb	The original Hitcher film was a nice little understated horror flick . There is nothing understated about this brain dead remake , Sean Bean ( usually a very capable actor ) has his talents wasted as John Ryder ( a role that Rutger Hauer made his own in the original ) . The two protagonists are so borderline mentally retarded that it's very hard to root for either of them to escape the absurd perils that the hitcher puts them in , and the plot is utterly awful . Racking my brain to find something ANYthing at all to say positive about this waste of money , I can only tell you that it's still better then the Jake Busey-helmed crap-fest that was " Hitcher 2 " My grade :
Rage of the aggravated video renter	A group of teens have their car break down in the middle of nowhere . They seek shelter in a farmhouse . But three murderous convicts are there killing the owner of said farmhouse and his family . One of them accidentally brings zombies around by knocking over a scarecrow . Cue blood , gore , carnage , bad acting . Better than the first but only by default . I still wouldn't wish it on my arch-enemy , bob . In the end the filmmaker wants it to be a parable about how we us Americans are killing ourself and our forests ( huh ? OK , whatever buddy ) Dude I'd rather chop down forests then have my braincells diminish and my Grey matter leak out of my ears . In other words become a simple-minded idiot Liberal .
Stupid decisions made by stupid people	Ronnie ( Adam Scott , who'd later go on to parts in Step Brothers & the Matador ) is a sad sack loser of a guy who works at a halfway house for the mentally disabled . He grows infatuated by Sara , one of the residents when he spies her naked n the bathroom . So much is his fondness that later when he sees her standing in the middle of the street ( she had wondered out of the house ) he decides to take her back to his mom's place ( where he lives , mom's in the hospital after falling out of a taxi ) for some nookie . Things get complicated when Ronnie's druggie brother , fresh out of prison , shows up a day early and decides to party with his equally pathetic friends . Meanwhile the other helper at the Halfway house is looking for Sara . The movie started out with an intriguing premise , but soon devolved into something else entirely . Everyone in the film acts insanely stupid and none of their actions make much sense even under the lightest of scrutiny . By the end ( which was such a WTF moment that I ceased to exist caring ) I was though even trying to care what the hell was going on . The film felt more like a series of random story ideas thrown out there and less like a coherent plot . I'm positive there's a good story to be told of a mentally handicapped person who's kidnapped by a social worker for nefarious sexual purposes , but this movie just isn't it . Eye Candy : Fini Goodman shows T & A but her character is mental Where I Saw it : instant Netflix via Xbox 360
The paper thin one-joke premise gets stale fast	Three miniature anatomically correct clay-mated aliens travel to Earth to see how humans have evolved . They decide to make a human / vacuum cleaner hybrid just for giggles , but their plan is contingent on someone having their way with a vacuum cleaner . A local bum more than happily obliges . However the resulting hybrid has a taste for . . . . . blood and sex ! ! Leaving the bum to go look for his lost loving vacuum , Dusty Thisultra-low budget curiosity is definitely a weird one , you'll never see a rapist vacuum cleaner in any other movie and the ridiculous image stays with you for a little while . The whole film feels like it was written on a bunch of cocktail napkins . Plot-lines and story elements disappear & reappear haphazardly and the movie goes off on a few tangents . Furthermore , the film feels too long for it's thin premise . Michael Paul Girard was able to make a minor soft-core skin classic with his later " Babes 2 : Lost in Beaver Creek " , but this , his first film , only showed that he had a lot of unpolished edges that he needed to smooth out before getting to that point . Eye Candy : Jean Stewart gets frontally nude DVD Extras : Director's commentary ; 19 & a half minutes of outtakes from the original cut of the film ; 4 minutes of outtakes from " Lebanon Vice " ( the fictitious show that plays in this movie ) ; and trailers for " National Lampoon's TV the Movie " , " Fubar " , " Plaster Caster " , & " Dolemite "
quick name a great movie based on video game	If you're stumped , don't worry it was a trick question . The answer is there are none . Sadly that trend doesn't stop with this wretched excuse for a game . First of all , if you haven't even played the games , don't go see this film . The two mediums are strongly interwoven ( more so than any other previous film of this kind that I saw before ) and you WILL be lost . Fortunately I have played said games , so that wasn't an issue for me . But the excruciating dialog , the lame acting , the lulls in the film ( at more than 2 hours , you'll be glancing at your watch countless times ) , and the waste of the one talented actor of the bunch , Sean Bean , were a big issue for me . The excellent " Brotherhood of the Wolf " this is definitely not . My friend Dave , who drug me to this piece of excrement , however loved the film . But to put that in perspective , he also loved both Underworld movies , Daredevil , the Hulk , Ready to Rumble , and Van Helsing ( to name but a few ) So needless to say , his kudos are suspect to say the least .
An pitiful attempt to cash-in on the first	Harry , an old school cranky newspaper reporter helps a new girl reporter answer some sex letters for the " Dear Collete " advice column that she's taking over from him . She reads letters involving sex in the library , school locker room , drive-in rape , an elevator threesome lesbian action in the barn , and sex in church among others . This sequel to " Fantasm " lacks the charisma , originality , and fun of the first one . It's a dreary mess to sit through and it was very obvious that it was made simply to cash-in on the first movie and nothing more . DVD Extras : Commentary with Producer Antony Ginnane ; and Theatrical Trailer
what a bad MOOOOOOOvie	The title refers to a cow that's the object of Pa Willard's ( Patrick Wright ) idiot hick son , Junior ( John Tull ) . Pa spends his time between making moonshine ( like any respectable hillbilly ) , bedding the local ladies , and attempting to get said ladies to seduce Junior to get his fixations off that damn cow . Decidedly not nearly as good or enjoyable as " the Pigkeeper's Daughter " was , this yawn-inducing low budget Hicksploitation flick , is helped a tad by having remarkable beautiful women ( Rachel Wolf excluded ) in various forms of undress , but they can only do so much with the lousy script and sub-par soft-core scenes ( the bathtub scene being a rather notable exception , as it's the only hot one ) . For the most most unremarkable in any way , shape , or form , this film is highly forgettable if you plan on watching it at all . I'm even hesitant to recommend it to die hard Sharon Kelly fans . Eye Candy : Sandy Carey , Tallie Cochrane , Karen Cooknell , & Sharon Kelly show allSomething Weird's DVD extras ( R1 ) : Seven minute gallery of Harry Novak exploitation art & photos with radio-spot rarities ; short film : " the Old Man's Bride " ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Country Cuzzins " , " Country Hooker " , " Midnite Plowboy " , " Southern Comforts " , " Tobacco Roody " , & " the Pigkeeper's Daughter " ( the last of which is also included in this double-feature DVD )
unbearable	Mike Atkinson plays the Master in this surreal little soft-core film of the late 60's . The Master is a peeping tom who sends his minion to fellow various women around with a video camera , the images being sent back to the Masters lair where he can enjoy it in solitary . Way too Avant garde for my tastes , I found the movie to be dumb , eceltic , silly , and more than just a touch pretentious . Not a good recipe for a compelling film in the least . The only reason I watched it was because it was on the same DVD as " The Spy who Came " a much MUCH better movie in every conceivable way . This is definitely one to skip . Something Weird DVD Extras : 2 shorts : Girl of my dreams & the Philosophy of Computing , " Tel-Star Striptease " feature ( in actuality an excerpt of " the Peep Snatchers " ) ; 12 minute Gallery of Underground Sexploitation movie magazine covers with audio oddities ; and Trailers for " the Curous Dr . Humpp " , " Office Love-in " , " the Singles " & " Some like it Violent " ( the film is also bundled with the vastly superior " The Spy who Came " on this DVD )
unrest will , ironically , put you to sleep	If I were to actually had paid for this stinker of a film , rather than just catching it on Comcast's Fear . net channel there's no doubt I'd be more angry that I've waisted my time on it . This movie about a few med students dissecting the dead body of a prostitute only to find that the dead have stories to tell and the atheist student having to question her ( lack of ) beliefs had me drifting of to sleep no less then three times . Each subsequent time I had to rewind to the spot that I drifted off to . Boring behind belief and boosting a cookie cutter storyline that goes nowhere and goes nowhere slowly , it's hard to recommend it in any way , save for a cure for insomnia . Pretty much the worst of the ' 8 films to die for ' movies that I've seen thus far . Badly directed , horribly acted , and written in such a way to induce infinite more yawns than chills .
one of the lesser soft-core thrillers I've seen , about as hot as a sub-zero refrigerator	An insurance investigator travels to India to investigate the death of a maharajah whose death was officially deemed as being trampled by an elephant in this soft-core thriller that is deathly boring and has surprisingly unerotic soft-core scenes . Not worth watching even if you find it on late night premium cable and have nothing else to do . Sleep would be preferable to this mind-numbing garbage . To add insult to injury , the movie also somehow makes India look dull and unappealing . Eye Candy : Asha Siewkumar show T & A ; Maryam d'Abo bares her breasts ; and Lee Anne Beaman shows all
mind-numbingly awful	A Chinese special task force finds some snakes and large eggs in the sewer , which they set fire to . Why they do this I have no earthly idea . But this angers the biggest snake whom they don't know of . After the police leave the big snake slithers out of the sewers and transforms into the very naked " sex Medusa " ( Nomoto Miho , most known for her role in " Fudoh : The New Generation " ) . She's taken in by a sweet and rich , but impotent stranger . There's also a duo of scientists in a side-plot that goes nowhere . This film is not that good in the least and I found myself yawning and looking at my watch quite frequently . You think that the sex Medusa would be really peeved that her ' family ' was killed , but she's more passive then most of the characters in the movie , nothing much happens , and the special effects so to speak are absurd . True Miho is topless a lot in the film ( and bares her ass too ) , but since you can see that in much better film's that she's been in , it's hardly enough reason to see this boringly bad film . Shriek Show DVD Extras : Trailers for " Women in Prison " , " New Big boss " , " Biozombie " , & " Story of Ricky-O "
better then the movie it comes with , just not by much	The best extra on the Little Nicky DVD because it has the least to do with that horribly bad movie . Not to say that this featurette about heavy metal is good . As it barely touches the surface and is too dam vanilla to be worth more than one viewing . I'm just saying that it's better than the steaming pile of turd that the movie was . Giving a cursory glance at what heavy metal means to people who don't really know what they're talking about , but some band members of metal bands chime in as well . But it doesn't tell ANYthing that even casual fans wouldn't know . This 18 minute short can be found on New Line's Platinum Series DVD of " Little Nicky "
almost worthless	A handful of nubile young college sorority sisters decide to go camping with a professor . A giant druid want to sacrifice them to prevent the apocalypse come the year 2000 , they also have to contend with bikers , an Indian and a loch ness monster type thing . Worth watching for only 3 reasons , George ' Buck ' Flower ( a sadly unsung B-movie staple ) is on hand as a hobo and the other 2 belong to the stunning Savannah ( in one of only 3 non-porn roles she had ) . Both have very small roles . Too bad everything else in the movie is horrendously bad . Retromedia DVD Extras : Original Trailer Eye Candy : 4 pairs of breasts , 2 asses
Adult version no , Mongoloid Version maybe	Dr . Chris Leder ( Jack Buddliner , who is ugly enough to make ME feel amazingly good about my body ) goes to a bookstore with his fiancé , Cynthia ( Jennifer Brooks , better know as " that one girl in that flick where Elvira shows her hoo-haas ) . He sees a book he wants but waits till he's alone to go get it . The store owner isn't selling , so Chris naturally strangles him . ( i hesitate to say kills because he blinks " after death ) . He then uses the book to turn himself into MISS Hyde . A pre-breast enhancement , pre-hardcore star , Rene Bond ( quite easily the only redeeming value of the movie ) also stars as secretary of Dr . Chris in this hard soft-core film . This film was hard to sit through & I know that ANY movie released on the " Something Weird " label is for acquired taste . Do yourself a favor and skip this . See Hammer's " Dr . Jekyll and Sister Hyde " instead , which is miles better . DVD Extras : Commentary by David F . Friedman ; Theatrical trailer ; gallery of exploitation artEye candy : all the girls get nude at one point in the filmANTI-Eye candy : Jack Buddliner gets nude ( giving the word cocktail weenie a new meaning , frankly I feel sorry for the guy )
worst slasher film of the early ' 80's	A biker-outfitted clad , hearse driving killer searches for the construction workers ( and those associated with them ) who gang-raped a girl earlier in the film . The vigilante's weapon of choice is , in keeping with the name of the movie , a nail gun . She ( or he ) also spouts some truly awful one-liners as he ( she ) offs the victims . Also an inept cop and inane doctor are searching for the murderer / revenge killer . That's pretty much it story-wise . Man oh man is this a bad BAD movie . Atrocious acting , dreadfully unfunny quips from the killer ( whose voice is synthesized to keep the supposed ' mystery ' of who it is ) , a script my dog could write , el cheapo gore ' special effects ' . This is strictly amateur hour in every single connotation of the word . For something similar , yet a billion times better , do yourself a favor and rent " the Toolbox Murders " instead ( the original NOT the remake ) Eye Candy : Staci Gordon & Kit Mitchell get topless ( Kit is also topless in the DVD outtakes ) ; Shelly York shows tits & a bit of bush ( word of caution : John Rudder shows his ass and penis ) Synapse DVD Extras : A 25 minute interview with Director Terry Loften ; an 8 & a half minute outtake reel ( with no film audio but with comments from the director ) ; & Promotional trailer for this film
exercise in redundancy	Located as an extra on the DVD of " Scream Queen Hot Tub Party " , this short film ( only 35 minutes in length ) has to do with a cave-girl ( Michelle Bauer ) being found by Rose ( Cierra Knight ) in her bedroom . So this calls for a lesbian shower with the strange monosyllabic neadrathal . The Cavegirl has to get accustomed to life in the 20th century after all But wait the cave-girl isn't alone and a cave-MAN shows up ( OH NOS ) . Wait . . . why am I going on and on about the " plot " ? t's just a very flimsy excuse to show gratuitous nudity and that's abundant in this film . However Michelle ( who was approaching her 40's when this was made ) is still the hottest girl in the short .
the gayest mainstream horror film until Victor Salva went into directing	It's 5 years later and a new Scream Queen , Jesse ( Mark Patton ) move into Freddy's old house . Forsaking the dream logic of the first , Krueger seeks to posses Jesse's body ( not that there's anything wrong with that , as Seinfeld would say ) . This is hands down the worst of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies and not because it's the gayest horror film that wasn't directed by Victor Salva , but in truth that doesn't help in the least . No , this movie sucks ( no pun intended ) because it doesn't seem to care about a little thing called continuity . Freddy exists in dreamland and by blatantly disregarding what the crux of the first film was , this movie defecates all over it ( again not that there's anything wrong with that ) DVD Extras : Cast and Crew Bios ; and Jump to a Nightmare option ( more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set ) DVD-Rom content : Trivia game ; Screenplay ; and web link
this movie should have taken lessons from said Angel	Slight off-balance police inspector Palmer ( Alison Eastwood ) works with Father Brian ( Judd Nelson ) to solve for a religion-based killer , while she deals with her teen-aged goth sister . Huge plot holes , faulty logic , an un-likable ' heroin ' and the fact that the movie just trudges on make this crime thriller awful . It's one of those direct to video flicks that you'd likely find early in the morning on cable , but even if you do stumble across it don't bother watching . Eye Candy : Alison Eastwood gets topless , Andrea Runge gets full frontal ( yea she's dead at the time , but what ya gonna do , ya know ? )
don't embrace the dorkness	Jennifer ( now actress Renee Rea as opposed to Madison Clark of the first one ) is now a vampire and moves to LA to be at Gaylen place , the Vamp who turned her . Gaylen being an apropo name for how vampires have been defanged since the vastly overrated Anne Rice . She of course meets other trendy vamps and they all chill at a nightclub . Because we all know vamps and nightclubs go together like Rip Taylor and confetti . Meanwhile the horrible techno-driven theme song plays numerous times . This is a pretty lame soft-core movie , and as a vampire film it sucks , so par for the course there . The dialog seems to be made by those dreary goth clowns that you avoided like the plaque in high school . Eye Candy : Jezebelle Bond , Renee Rea , April Flowers , Catalina Larranaga , and Katie Lohmann show various amounts of skin Where I saw it : Showtime Beyond
The short does for horror what G4 does for gaming . Makes it crap	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Blood Syrup " is about a guy who is weirded out by his syrup that he thinks is alive . That basically it . Oh and the Director and actors are all connected to G4 TV in some way , which should tell you something . Because no matter HOW noble a channel dedicated to video games may seem to you , if you ever tried watching any of the crap on G4 , you know the execution makes it simply unwatchable . Such is the case with this short actually . Did you like how I tied that all together and somehow managed to get the mandatory ten line requirement that IMDb has made mandatory ? Yea I do too : )
now that's 10 , 000 dollars down the drain	Two bums freezing from the cold stumble upon a seemingly deserted house & one is quickly disposed of in the basement by an unseen force or rather a seen liquid . Flash forward a few years and we find Julie ( Goergia Hatzis ) , who also has recurring nightmare , goes up with her overbearing father to clean up the aforementioned house ( her dad buys houses to turn over ) Her friends come up to help , but the killer liquid / mist / vapor is waiting for them I understand the makers of the film were working on a really minuscule budget , but this film was still awful . The plot just didn't click for me ( a problem no amount of money could've fixed ) and at even only 80 minutes running time my interest was wanning before it was even halfway though . The film is also heavily disjointed . Eye Candy : Georgia Hatzis goes full frontal an shows her ass as well ; Adrienne McCleave & Leslie Culton both provide T & ADVD Extras : Commentary by Writer / director Brett Piper , Creg Conley , & Michael Raso ; trailer for this movie ; and trailers for " Shock-O-Rama " , " Dark Chamber " , " Millenium Crises " , " Bacterium " , " Chainsaw Sally " , " Creature from the hillbilly lagoon " , " Sinful " , " Skin Crawl " , " Feeding the Masses " , " Prison a go go " , " Suburban Nightmare " , " Bite me ! " , " Screaming Dead " , " Demoness " , " & " psycho Sisters "
Moves like a one-legged crippled sloth	After a fairly lengthy partially pixelated nude shower scene , we're off to the races for this " Blair Witch Project " - esquire horror film about three girlfriends venturing to a desolate cabin deep in the woods to get away from their hectic lives for a girls ' weekend out and smoke pot . They meet two guys who seem friendly enough , so they drink and tell ghost stories , until late in the movie some of them get picked off . This is a fairly slow movie , with needlessly drawn out ' suspense ' scenes , the bad acting can't carry the myriad of scenes where nothing happens but mindless banter , and the movie as a whole is a dud , a deathly-boring dud at that . Nothing at all happens until the last half hour and when it did I was to numb to really care . Eye Candy : Ashley Totin shows T & A ; Evy Lutzky gets topless briefly ; and Jennifer Hart shows her right tit
Nope , the ' hinge ' is still there	After the opening credits , there's a black screen for about a minute . A minute of nothing , then a girl wakes up and takes a shower . Then her and two college friends are driving to a rock concert , after much padding , they hit something and skid off the road . They awaken in a cabin inhabited by a wheelchair-bound old lady and her offspring . The killings are sadly very tame for a supposed Video Nasty . The twist ending silly and predictable . No one involved in the mess would ever make anything of note again . So there are still happy endings sometimes . Eye Candy : Sara Ansley gets topless , and Laurel Munson has full frontal on display
fluffy	This is just a " Spotlight on Location " episode featuring said movie . If you're not familiar with said show , it's a thing that one of the premium movie channels play between movies sometimes when a film is coming out in the theaters soon . So needless to say , it's leaning more towards a fluff promo piece to get people to see the movie than anything else . Not very informative , but it's always cool to see Schwarzenegger in interviews if nothing else ( even his audio Commentaries are great , just listen to the one on " Conan the Barbarians " DVD if you don't believe me ) This can be found as an extra on the DVD of " End of Days "
worst episode of Howard's E ! show I've seen	Penthouse Pet of 2005 , Martina Warren and runner-up Natalia Cruz stop by the studio . The topics vary from Natilia's alleged past of being sexually assaulted , to her lesbian experience . For some reason I felt this interview came across as quite fake and I wasn't nearly as interested in it as other Howard interviews I've seen . Furthermore Natilia hogs up most of the episode . Boring , boring episode of Howard's E ! show . And if it weren't for the fact that nothing was on TV while i watched this ( at 2 AM ) and the fact that I've already seen everything else on Howard TV I would have shut it off mid-way through .
Unthrilling , Unscary , and nearly Unbearable	In the midst of a bitter divorce , Dahlia ( Jennifer Connelly ) decides to move into Roosevelt Island and rents a worn down apartment with her daughter , Cece in tow . Cece starts to have an ' imaginary . friend as well as Dahlia having reoccurring nightmares . This , along with other certain peculiarities about her apartment leads Dahlia on path of curiosity hoping to find answers to certain questions . John C . Rielly as Mr . Murphy , the real estate agent who sells her on the shady new living quarters she finds herself in is easily the best thing this movie has going for it . As for anyone who saw Hideo Nakata's " Honogurai mizu no soko kara " , you'd do well to just avoid this pale Americanized remake all together . As it lacks anything close to the scares , tension , or creepy atmosphere that the original had . A failure on nearly all accounts . Where I Saw it : Starz on Demand
constant cravings	Micheal ( Paul Clemins ) , the product of a fateful night back in the 60's when his mom got raped by some vile monster , is going through some growing pains as he discovers that he might just be a chip off the old block . Perfectly healthy for most of his short life , he's now deathly sick in the hospital due to an overly enlarged pineal gland . his parents must figure out why exactly this is happening . But the small town they investigate happens to have some secrets itself . To make matters worse the tiny community is having some grisly murders happening in it . Not knowing if it wants to be a monster flick , possession film , mystery , or tacky melodrama causes the movie to be all over the map and leaves it disjointed and unfocused . The low caliber of melodramatic acting does help matters . I lost all interest in the film way before the end credits began to roll . Eye Candy : Bibi Besch gets topless in the beginning , Katherine Moffat gets topless at the end , but both in the midst of monster rape scenes
Better then the first if only because it has nothing to do with it	Why the distributors choose to rename this indy horror / comedy as a sequel to " Ancient Evil " ( a VERY crappy movie ) and possibly discourage those few that would actually take a chance on this one is beyond me . Thankfully this has jack-all to do with the first one . In a prologue set in ancient times , Anubis is beheaded ( in a scene that had me chiming that " There can only be One " ) In the present day , five friends unleash the god of the dead when they begin dabbling in the occult . The movie comes off as a sub-standard horror version of " Clerks " with a splash of " the Craft " . Not a good movie by any standards but I seldom got bored with it , that sound count for something at least . Even though I didn't really care for the soundtrack in the least . Eye Candy : Noel Francomano exposes one boob ( the left one if you must know )
no rocking going on here	This 48 minute compilation of clips from the LA public access show ( I guess , i don't live in LA ) features Colin Malone , a slightly gay unkempt fat man interviewing various music people . Not all of them really ' rock ' , but if they named the DVD " A tiny Percentage of Colin's Sleazy friends rock and most suck ass " , marketing wouldn't go for it . The only segments I was even vaguely interested in were those with David Lee Roth , Odorus from GWAR , Rick James , Poison , and well that's pretty much it . All the others come off like dorky morons . Especially the porn stars , NO ONE wants to hear them talk . Eye Candy : Bridget Kerkove , Tabitha Stevens , Kendra Jade , tiffany Mynx , get topless ; Daisy Chain shows her left tit My Grade : D DVD Extras : Photo Gallery ; 3 songs by DJ Mr . Mixx ; Complete 19 minute Deftones episode ; and Trailers for " Colin's Sleazy Friends : Raw and Extreme " & " Cooking with Porn Stars "
had a more putrid stench than the fat guy must have had	As a kid , Brooke , inadvertently causes the death of two college kids when she throws mud on them ( I don't know either ) . 18 years later she is the high school teacher with unruly students . After bitch slapping one , the kid and his three friends ( They include the token slut , fat geek , and ' rebbelious ' outcast ) attack her in her home . The teacher goes crazy ( crazier ) . The optional commentary by Joe Bob makes this slightly more bearable . Whereas seeing this on it's own is almost a complete travesty . Who knows maybe I was too sober for this flick . But I highly doubt it . DVD Extra : Intro by Joe Bob Briggs ; Joe Bob Briggs commentary ; second commentary with director Douglas Grossman ; Interview with Grossman ; Writer Leo Evans interview ; red band theatrical trailer ; 2 TV spots ; Trailers for " Blood Shack " , " Flesh Eaters " , " Faceless " , and " The Hollywood Strangler meets the Skidrow Slasher " Eye Candy : Karen Russell goes topless ( the only real ones in the flick ) ; Mauren Mooney shows ass , the breasts are a body Double ( BOOOO ! ! ! ! ) ; and another body double for Millie Prezioso ( double BOOOO ! ! ! )
Only of interest to Tiffany Shepis fans , and even than only mildly	Six friends decide to party it up in an abandoned warehouse factory unaware that Alexa ( Scream Queen Tiffany Shepis ) , a former factory worker who upon catching a virus via an experimental biological drug , mutates into a monster with an insatiable appetite for human blood , is still stalking the halls of the deserted place . Will they be able to survive the night ? ? or a better question would be would you even care ? ? I'm keeping my review spoiler free so I won't really answer the first question , but the second one gets a resounding no because most of the characters are bland , annoying & unlikable walking clichés . This low-budget DTV film seems very content on merely going through the motions adding nothing new to the slasher sub-genre that one hasn't seen over a million times before . Also worthy to note that if you're renting this as either a Shepis or Ron Jeremy fan , Tiffany's not in it that often at all and Jeremy has even less screen time ( basically not much more than a glorified cameo ) I usually can get into a cool B-movie horror film , but this one was too badly acted and just lame . Some mildly convincing gore save it from being completely unwatchable but that's about it . Eye Candy : Allison Beal & Rhonda Jordan both get topless
Better than " Blood Wings " , but that can be said about practically any other film ever made	Director Jake West , who burst into the horror film lexicon quite nicely with the far above average vampire film " Razor Blade Smile " , hits a minor stumbling block with this second sequel to the original Pumpkinhead . Quite wisely pretending that the previous " Blood Wings " travesty never existed , this film is much more akin to the first . ( practically a remake in parts ) . This automatically makes it much better then the supremely awful previous film . A dubious honor indeed , but hey you take what you can get . Doug Bradley ( Pinhead from the Hellraiser franchise ) is a doctor harvesting organs in a small town , but when the locals find this out three of them visit the old lady to resurrect Pumpkinhead for another bout of vengeance . Lance Henriksen , in need of a quick buck it seems , is back as a completely unnecessary Ed Harley ( here in cameo ghost form ) . Perhaps the fact that it's a TV movie hamstrung it , but Pumphin Head looked like a bastardized version of the legendary Stan Winston's work on the creature . Some of the CGI elements are plain laughably bad ( Pumpkinhead scaling a church immediately comes to mind as it was so awful ) . Furthermore the Old Lady's make-up was off as well , the plot didn't deviate from the original enough to warrant this being made other than money . But as I said it IS better then part 2 . And I'd be an idiot to write off West merely because of one clunker of a made for TV sequel , the kid still has talent and I look forward to his next project . I just believe that Pumpkinhead ( just as " Children of the corn " , and " Lawnmower Man " ) should've never been a franchise and the original spoke well enough for itself and should have been left well enough alone .
more cheese than meat ( and the cheese is rancid & moldy )	I rented this one based on largely marginally positive reviews i've read , expecting a fun little gory horror flick , what I got however was a pretty uninspired " Nightmare on Elm Street " retread , but with a clown fast food mascot . The jokes fall extremely flat and the horror just isn't there . Plus it has a non-ending ending of the kind that I've really grown to detest throughout the years , leaving it open for a sequel which i'm not hoping for in the least bit . Perhaps it would have helped the film if any of the characters were fleshed out in the least bit , but the way it is now the movie had me thinking about how much creepier it might have been if it was about a deranged Burger King mascot ( YOU watch those commercials and play Sneak King and NOT be terrified ) . Oh yeah before I forget the film also can ' boast ' ( and I use the term loosely ) a forgettable cameo by Mr . Super-Size Me Morgan Spurlock , in a role so atrociously acted that one of the people from the group of individuals that he made fun of during a college lecture can act circles act circles around ( no I'm not going to use the term he did , you have the internet , look it up )
Crashes and burns	Stallone and Renny Harlin team up again almost a decade after the action packed " Cliifhanger " , but the outcome is not nearly as good in this tale of an emotionally scarred former racing star ( Stallone ) hired by car owner ( Burt Reynolds ) to teach a talented rookie how to go the distance and stay focused . It suffers from a supremely lack-luster storyline , auto-pilot acting and unexciting ' action ' . Both Stallone and Reynolds , two formally great actors , gave me false hope that they would each return to excellent form ( Sly in the superb " Copland " , and Burt for his great role in " Boogie Nights " ) , but any good will that those two films bought them from me is sadly shot right down again with this atrocious effort . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Renny Harlin ; 15 minute ' Making of ' featurette ; 10 minute featurette on the visual effects ; 51 minutes of deleted scenes with Stallone Commentary ; Cast and Crew Filmographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; and a trailer for the video game tie-in
Oh those wacky Germans	A school advisory board gather to decide the fate of one of it's girl students who was found having sex with her bus driver in this German soft-core porn . Filmed as a faux-documentary ( with some real life and some faked interviews interspersed between the little stories of various girls gone ' wild ' ) , the main purpose is to titillate more than educate , and it does it's job adequately if not particularly well . This was the first in a LONG line ( 11 sequels ! ! ) of " Schoolgirl Reports " , and while it was enjoyable enough , I didn't see anything that special as to warrant one sequel much less that many . Just chalk it up to a case of " oh those wacky Germans " . For a better film along the same lines , in my opinion , you should catch 1978's " Fantasm "
Single Yellow Turkey	Anthony Wong stars in both this and the original ( far superior ) Untold Story , but the similarities stop there . Wong doesn't reprise his role obviously , and instead plays a bumbling policeman who gets involved with a rather suspicious female , Fung ( 1994's Miss Singapore , Paulyn Sun ) who's a repressed nut-job , sure . But her tame jealous " wanna be with a guy who's with a girl " killer is no where near as compelling as what Wong played in the first one . The movie itself seems tired and by the numbers . Yeung Fan as the physcho's love interest's unfaithful girl tries to keep one from total boredom by stripping down whenever possible , and Sun does have a nice ass , but even that can't save this dud . Mei Ah DVD Extras : Sub-titled interviews with Cheung Kam Ching & Paulyn Sun ; Anthony Wong filmography ; a very brief synopsis ; Theatrical trailer for the film ; & trailers for " Chinese Erotic Ghost Story " and " Twenty Something "
Un-wild wild things meets not so cruel intentions	Unentertaining , uninvolving hybrid of " Cruel Intentions " and " Wild Things " , but it isn't nearly as good as either of those trash min-classics . It's about the acting sheriff , Artie ( Taye Diggs ) being called in to investigate a near-fatal drug overdose at a posh upper-class Univesity , but to keep it on the down low . As he digs deeper he thinks it's much more than it at first glance seems to be . We follow Alicia , the girl who overdosed in flashbacks as well . At about 90 minutes , if this film was welcomed to begin with , it would have worn it out . This film brings absolutely nothing new to the table . But it IS the only movie thus far that has Miss Swain topless so the grade is higher just for that . Eye Candy : Dominique Swain gets topless ( fixing a mistake of " Happy Campers " ) ; another girl is topless Anti-Eye candy : more men ass than girl tit
you too can be a tool obsessed psycho	This short teaches the merits of , what else ? Yup Industrial arts . It has a creepy kid who likes those tools a tad more than a normal sane person would and a coach ( Chuck Lacey , who did a great many of these ' educational ' shorts ) who agrees that that stop would never be useful to him , but how he respects that he learned it none the less . MST3K mocked this short unmercifully of course and it was among the funniest ribbing of a short I've seen from the show . Bought a big smile too my face . This short can be found on the Mystery Science Theater 3000 Volume 1 before the film " The Skydivers " ( episode 125 ) Normal short grade : D MST grade :
A stalker's how-to or a dishonest PR stunt ? Ether way it's pretty bad	Brian Herzlinger is a normal Joe trying to ' get a date with Drew Barrymore ' in 30 days in this cloying ' Documentary ' . Whether this is a stalker's attempt to desperately get a date with a actress he adores , or a clever ploy to jump start some sort of career for Herzlinger ( I'm thinking more the latter ) , the fact remains that whichever it is , te film is manipulative at best and slightly alarming at worst . And if it WERE the former , rather then the latter , all the likability of Brian flies out the window as no matter how charismatic a stalker may be , the fact remains that they ARE in fact stalking someone . And if this movie inspires even one REAL stalker ( and as I said before this film is a sham and a PR ploy ) , but if the film inspires a REAL stalker that would be quite a shame indeed . I can't recommend this film on entertainment ground , I can't recommend it on documentary grounds , and I certainly can't recommend it on ethical grounds .
just yet another useless and crap remake	The sheerly useless remakes of older and much better films just keep assaulting our senses and bludgeoning our already rapidly diminishing faith in Hollywood , with this by the numbers disaster flick . The original Poseidon film was truly a sight to behold . Great performances , a riveting story , the fact that you never really knew who was going to survive , good characterization . - In this lousy remake you get lame cardboard cutouts who might as well have ' casualty ' , ' sacrifice ' , and ' safe ' on their respective foreheads . Good character motivation takes a firm second seat to an overabundant CG assault . And Wolfgang Peterson who had made one of the greatest sea movies of all time with " Das Boot " feels like he's slumming with this worthless little number . I can't say i'm let down by writer Mark Protosevich though as he's proved he doesn't really give a toss about anything but style over substance ( see his previous film " the Cell " ) so this is just par for the course . However , any way you slice it , any where you wish to put the blame , it's still a stinker .
the worst of the Angel Guts	This forth film in the " Angel Guts " saga , which at only a few minutes above an hour ( it just feels much longer ) , is also the shortest , which is perhaps just as well as it's also the most uninvolving of the series . Nami , a department store clerk , is interested in another part time job . Her fellow worker at the department store introduces her to modeling for a porn mag called ' red porno ' . But when her other employers found out about her naughty pictures they decide to fire her . And she gets some unwanted admirer . Oh yea and she likes to masturbate . . ALOT . Using various household items . The wall to wall sexcapades masks a lack of discernible plot and pushes this one far too much into exploitation territory , not unsurprising though given that the Director of this one is Toshiharu Ikeda ( " Evil Dead Trap " , " Beautiful Prey " ) . Perhaps his sensibilities just weren't suited for an Angel Guts film . DVD Extras : Commentary by Jasper Sharp ; Bio / Filmographies ; a 36 minute interview with Toshiharu Ikeda ; Original Sleeve art ; and Trailers for this and 4 other Angel Guts Films ( High School Co Ed , Red Classroom , Red Vertigo , & Red Porno ) all available in Artsmagik's Box-set , but for some reason the 6th film " Angel Guts : Red Flash " is not in the set
the miracle is that i could sit through the whole episode	A scam-artist preacher known as Brother Charles ( Joe Pantoliano of future Sopranos fame ) is sitting pretty with his ill-earned money via his ' Church of Unlimite Love ' when it all comes to a halt after he sets his sight on the mysterious Alice Ames , a girl who suffers from the Stigmata . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker , and by choosing the episodes by star power as opposed to the actual best episodes of the series , it really doesn't do it justice . This is proved once again in this episode which is mediocre at best and has an abrupt ending that is completely unfuffiling and made me not like the episode even more .
who knew a modded X-box could be so powerful ? ?	Widowed father Jack Tanaka ( Don ' the Dragon ' Wilson ) feels that his son Brad is drifting from him . After catching his son drinking one sip of beer at a party , he grounds him for a week . The grandfather makes a custom virtual reality game in hopes of bringing the father and son closer together again . But when Brad get stuck in the game Jack has to follow him in and save him . No , it's not a exceptionally good film , but what the hell were you thinking when you rented a film starring The Dragon ? Hamlet ? I didn't think so . If you like Don , you probably will like this one , all others steer clear . ( would be higher if it didn't have the Monkeyman in it )
the monster that sounds like a gay porn	Aa a lame cover version of " Tainted Love " plays , two hormonally charged teens run into the swamp to have sex , but the guy gets killed by an unseen creature . Thus begins " Man-Thing " , a comic adaption that has about as much to do with the Marvel character it was based on as " Howard the Duck " or the first version of " The Punisher " , possibly less . Kyle Williams is the just arriving new mayor of Bywater ( they call it that because it's by water . why the mayor had to ask that , I don't know ) . He has to investigate a rash of disappearances leading to Man-thing , an Indian legend . This movie is bad . One-dimensional characters , a rather weak plot , excruciating dialog , and absolutely no tension combine to make the worst comic-based movie since " Superman 4 : Quest for Peace " Eye Candy : Imogen Bailey shows her plastic tits
Near the start of Fred's long , steady decline	Three evil sorority girls pledge a nerdy pledge into the Devil ( in the form of Robert Vaughn ) offers to turn her into a hot babe . And then the den mother ( Three's Company's Priscilla Barnes ) shows up and all hell breaks lose . Well OK , not ALL hell , but as much as this low-budget film could afford , which isn't much . Supposedly a comedy , but the laughs are few and far between . This movie was during the start of Fred Olen Ray's decline that started during the start of the ' 90s and gradually got worse and worse . Yes dear reader , they get worse than this one . . . MUCH worse . My Grade : DVD Extras : Commentary by Fred Olen Ray ; Stills gallery ; and Theatrical Trailer Eye Candy : Suzanne Ager , Michelle Bauer , Veronica Carothers , and Ruth Collins all show ample flash
sadly not the Tmnt spin-off I was hoping for	A group of ' teens ' go up to the mountains to go boarding . But someone doesn't like that they're there illegally , trespassing on private property , and breaking the safety rules to boot . So they're stalked and killed one by one . The intentional humor falls flat , yet luckily the unintentional humor saves this film from being totally unwatchable , but only barely . The ' teens ' are horrible actors and whiny people and their death scenes are a hoot . Would I ever watch it again ? Nope , but I had fun seeing it the first time , well perhaps not fun , but I wasn't hating my life . The beer helped . What din't help was the cardinal sin of Slasher films : showing a shower scene with NO nudity . Eye Candy : Holly Towne as Robyn shows her mosquito bites
I blame myself for thinking this could be good	After Wrong Turn 2 single-handedly told me that direct to DVD horror sequels could be very good , I decided to give this one a try . My renewed enthusiasm was quickly diminished . I had hopes for Return to House on Haunted Hill , but I was a fool for being optimistic , as this cardboard cliché-ridden sad excuse for a haunted house movie was awful for all the wrong reasons . The story , be that what it may , revolves around Ariel Wolfe , the sister of the girl survivor from the first film , being informed of her death , and going to the house on haunted hill under duress when shes taken by some thugs who are looking for a statue in same said house . Tediously dull the film soon becomes a chore to sit through as there's no chills , no tension , and virtually no excitement whatsoever . Sure a copy gory kills are scattered here and there , but even they are lacking . The HD-DVD version has an option to choose alternative paths for the characters to take ( a la Final Destination 3 ) which in theory is kind of cool , but quite frankly I only could make it through two choices until I grew bored again . Skip this film . Eye Candy : Oksana Borbat goes full frontal , Xeniya Fesenko provides the T & A ; and Zhasmina Toskova gets topless after the end credits
This bullet doesn't have your name on it	Johnathon Jackson stars as feminine schizophrenic hippie Alan Parker , who has to miss a John Lennon / Yoko Ono concert ( boo-friggan-who ) to attend to his recently stroke-addled Mother . Chris Gaunthier plays Alan's friend , Hector , as a third-rate Jack Black and is very annoying . But he's only in the first 20 minutes so I didn't mind as much . So anyway Alan starts hitchhiking back to his mom , meeting ' eccentric ' and ' colorful ' ( read annoying ) people , along the way . Remembering the past , having delusions , and wandering aimlessly . When you think it can't get any worse in comes one of the most horrid actors of my generation , David " Ready 2 Rumble " Arquette , and it takes a complete nosedive . I saw the non-USA network version , so it wasn't bleeped or censored . And you know what ? It still pretty much blew . This from a man who has the complete Stephan King collection in his library . Oh and there's also a second Alan that pops up that just seems to state the obvious . Lastly , the soundtrack is THE SAME soundtrack of ANY movie set in the ' 60s . Eye Candy : Catherine Devine is a sheer beauty to behold as a nude model in the beginning of the film .
awful	We follows the misadventures of a ' gambling bug ' who causes people and animals to gamble the lives away . Now THIS is the Robert McKimson that I know , totally and grossly incompetent and unfunny , I was getting worried when I was amused by the last two shorts that I've seen of his . This is a tired ham-fisted morality tale that has very few laughs makes this one of the worst Looney Tunes shorts that I've ever witnessed . It's just simply dreadful in every sense of the word . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 . My Grade :
Tony , you go from Candyman to . . . . . this ? ? ? ! ! ? ?	Bad ass phychopath , Shadow ( Candyman's Tony Todd ) is executed , but not before starting a full scale riot resulting in many prisoner deaths . Twenty years later the prison is now a womens ' penitentiary . Focusing on the new inmate , Solitaire ( Carla Greene ) , a tough girl who Shadow was planning to sacrifice when she was a baby , it isn't long before the zombies of the prisoners led by Shadow himself are out to finish what he started . This cheesy b-grade horror flick might have had a little promise in the beginning and I like Tony Todd , but once the film gets to the women's prison and focuses on it's inhabitants , the film becomes simply dreadfully lame , not even the shower scene or other nudity could save it from sub-par mediocrity . The film does pick up in the last 30 minutes or so , but not enough to make it watchable . my grade : D Eye Candy : Toy , and Aggie Valdez show tits ; Misty Mundae gives full frontal ; Danielle Riley shows EVERYthing ; and various extras show much skin as well
bad enough to be worth a chuckle or two	This lightweight bit of silly feminist twaddle has Laurene Landon as a female Conan the Barbarian-type woman who really hates males ( even berating her dog for being a guy ) who goes on a quest of vengeance after her village is devested by pig-headed males ( figutively , of course ) . This film is way to silly to ever take even remotely seriously and it's all the better because of it . Be it Landon's awful reading of the script , midgets who lack depth perception , Hundra riding naked through the shoreline for no reason whatsoever , the general inaneness of the story , or a combination of those elements , the flick is quite watchable IF you have a high tolerance for films of this nature . Don't go into it expecting Conan , don't expect even Red Sonia . Set your expectations very low though and you might be pleasantly surprised . And I'm talking " Babarian Queen " low . The movie also seems to go on to long and could've used some tighter editing . Subversive Cinema's DVD Extras ( R1 ) : 47 and a half minute Making of ' Hunting Hundra ' ; Cast biographies ; Theatrical trailer ( with nudity ) ; and Trailers for " Future Kill " ( with nudity ) , " Sensetive new age Killer " ( with brief nudity ) , " Dust Devil " , " Wild Blue Yunder " , & " Land of Look Behind " Easter Egg : got to the special features section , then on to ' Credits ' , while in that menu press right for a 2 minute and 50 second easter egg video clip of Laurene Landon talking about working with Robert Aldrich and confusing him with Robert Altman ( she hasn't aged well at all )
wasn't too interested	This almost 12 minute long featurette can be found on Blue Underground's DVD release of " Deathdream " , it features actor Richard Backus taking about his experiences in the role of Andy , an undead Vietnam veteran . His views of the fellow cast members , as well as the crew members , and the original prologue are all discussed . Not nearly as interesting as the featurette on Tom Savini on the same DVD , this is kind of dry and not really that good , still if you like the movie , it's good enough for one viewing I guess . But it didn't add much to the movie itself .
only for fans of Laura Gemser	Emanuelle ( Laura Gemser ) is a photographer / newspaper investigator / hardcore slut in this sleazy little film be the prolific Joe D'Amato . Emanuelle goes abroad to look for a story , any story . The plot is VERY secondary to getting the beautiful Miss Gemser naked as much as possible . But of course this being a D'Amato film that's not enough for him , so he throws in bestiality ( real ) and snuff ( fake , but disturbing ) . Everyone except for the aforementioned actress isn't that easy on the eyes , to put it diplomatically , and despite the nearly non-stop action put on display one can't help but to be a tad bored before the films over . Only really worth it for fans of Laura . The only other quasi compliment I have for this one is at least it was better than " Erotic Nights of the Living Dead " . Man that movie sucked . Eye Candy : Lorraine De Selle , Laura Gemser , Paola Senatore & various extras show all Blue Underground DVD Extras : uncut version ; a subtitled Interview with director / cinematographer Joe D'Amato ; an 11 minute subtitled Audio interview with actress Laura Gemser / Poster & still gallery ; Liner notes of the Emanuelle films by David Flint ; Filmographies for Joe D'Amato and Laura Gemser
great visuals can not polish an extremely lackluster game	On an HDtv ( pretty much a must-have for the next generation systems ) NBA Live looks great on the 360 , but everything else is amateur hour . The controls are lacking , the computer AI atrocious , and the game is just not fun at all . Pending a earth shattering event , I foresee the NBA 2K series to always be the dominant basketball franchise ( and rightfully so as year after year , it's the better game hands down ) and NBA Live to eternally play second-fiddle . My 360 Achievement points on this game : ( like all sports games , it's a walk in the park ) My current 360 Gamerscore : 32872 out of a possible 49760
even the similarly titled movie with Joe Estevez is better	Poor Jeff , still depressed over his parent's dying , doesn't have a date to Homecoming yet . One night while driving his cares away he meets Mary , not knowing she's the ghostly beauty of Chicago legend , and ends up inviting her to the dance . When his not so friendly acquaintance shows up dead , the police think Jeff did it , due to an altercation between them over Mary . When more of Jeff's friends meet their untimely demise , ( and after his Gradmother tells him of the urban legend ) he begins to put two and two together . The problem is that he's a bit of an idiot , as the viewer is five steps ahead of him . Due to an over-reliance on ominous ' point-of-view ' shots that all but give away the killer , comic panel seuqueways that make the movie seem silly and trite ( well MORE silly and trite than the film already is anyway ) , acting that's slightly sub-par , and a fairly generic story , this movie comes off as just another tedious entry in the sea of countless PG-13 rated ( the movie is Not rated , but it's definitely only PG-13 caliber ) so-called " horror " flicks . Rent the one with Joe Estevez instead . DVD Extras : Commentary by Writer / director Sean Beyer & actors Pamela Noble , Lauren Storm , Kristin Herrera , Kevin G . Schmidt , and Kyle Davis ; a 13 minute Making-of ; 12 minutes of bloopers ; 3 deleted scenes ; theatrical trailer for this film
An interesting premise derailed	Ian Stone ( Mike Vogal ) seems to by dieing horrific deaths only to inexplicably be alive again , albeit in different versions of his life . The only constant person is him , of course , his love interest , Jenny ( Christina Cola ) & mysterious Medea ( Jaime Murray from " Dexter " ) . Interesting premise for a film I thought , but the film ultimately fails by tipping it's hat way too early erasing the mysterious element to the movie and replacing it with a generic creature horror flick . Which I'd be fine with . But the film just gets so silly and matrix-lite that I had no recourse , save to merely roll my eyes and imagine a better film that could've been . DVD Extras : 6 censored Miss Horrorfest 2007 contest Webisodes ( totaling 19 and a half minutes of total uselessness ) ; Trailers for " The Eye " remake , " Wristcutters : a love story " ; and Promos for Fear . net , Horrorfest 2008 , & After Dark : 8 Films to Die for
marred by LOUD acting	Marred by atrocious LOUD hammy acting ( especially by Duke White ) , this no budget zombie film about an evil corporation ( and really are there any other kinds as far as films are concerned ) that turns the small town of Skyhook into mindless ravenous zombies . If it was a little better acted ( ok , you got me A lot better acted ) this film would have been a nice little film . As it is though it's a forgettable little film that could have been more . It's a shame really , I had heard such great things about this film . My expectations were quickly and unmercifully shattered . DVD Extras : Commentary by Garret , Duke , & Brandon White ; a 17 minute Making of ; 25 minute Short film " Monster ; 4 Deleted scenes ; Stills Gallery ; Bios ; and Trailer Gripes : On the DVD , if you go into the Deleted scenes menu you WILL NOT be able to go back , forcing you to turn off the DVD player
at LEAST try to stay true to the character	Third and last in the Ginger trilogy . I watched the first two , so I have to finish the trilogy , that's the way I am for better or worse , in this case the latter . In this one Ginger is cold in to put a stop to . . . insider trading ? ? Yup more or less that's what it is . She also acts WAY out of character by falling in love with a black man . Now there's nothing wrong with that , but when you set her up as absolutely hating blacks in the first one , you stick to the character no matter how despicable . Despite that this has all the ingredients of a Ginger film . S & M , stupid dialog , silly ' action ' . It's as bad as the other two . Eye Candy : Cherri Caffaro , Jocelyne Peters and an unknown girl all get fully nude
go watch Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers or Wizards of the Demon Sword instead	Sadly even the combined great talents of Jeffrey Combs , Michelle Bauer , Sybil Dannng , and yes , even Robby the Robot cant save this boring little film about a small group of people finding a ' lost world ' in a cave while searching for diamonds . It kills me because I love the films Fred Olen Ray did in the ' 80's . For the most part they were just low-budget cheesy goodness that put a smile upon my face . ( Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers is SOOO good ) . But this film just didn't do anything for me & even though he'd make a last gasp with the enjoyable " Scream Queen Hot Tub Party " and extremely fun " Wizards of the Demon Sword " , the decades after wouldn't be nearly as kind to him movie-writing wise . Retro-media DVD Extras : Commentary by Fred Olen Ray & Gary Graver ; Nite Owl Theater ( basically just an intro by Fred ) ; 24 minute documentary ; 10 minutes of behind the scenes footage ; 3 minutes of alternate takes for TV ; Stills gallery ; & unused artwork Eye Candy : Michelle Bauer & Tricia Burns both get topless while catfighting ( There's also 3 topless girls in the Nite Owl Theater special feature )
Not playing with a full deck	A cast made up of some fairly well known stars embarrass themselves with this highly disjointed ghost story . After 20 years , six childhood friends gather together for the funeral of a seventh . This in turn leads them on a path of remembrance and revelations . The movie did have promise , I will say that . Good locations and a good story or both sadly derail by bad editing , mediocre acting ( if this were a cast of newish actors I'd be apt to overlook that , but most of them are seasoned pros so I can't ) , and the film just raises more questions than it answers . Sorry , but another miss for After Dark Horrorfest . It's down there with " Deaths of Ian Stone "
Another Dark Caste misfire	Cyrus Kriticos ( F . Murray Abraham , who should know better ) was a curious little fellow prone to collecting souls of the deceased . After he passes away , leaving his secluded mansion and everything that lay within to his widowed nephew , Arthur ( Tony Shalhoub of " Wings " & " Monk " fame ) , whom moves in with his annoying rug rat son , hot as hell daughter , and token sassy black woman live in nanny in tow , things get quite a bit out of hand . There's a fortune hidden in the basement , whom Cyrus's former employee Dennis ( Matthew Lillard , who can't seem to pick a decent movie to save his life ) is looking for . The amazing mansion made entirely of glass is way too cool to be waisted on such a bad movie such as this one . The gory murders have style , but the film lacks any substance , scares , or fun at all , but as an avid horror fan , I must admit that Dark Castle films do nothing for me . Eye Candy : Shawna Loyer may or may not be fully nude DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Steve Beck , Production Designer Sean Hargreaves and Special Make-Up Effects Supervisor Howard Berger ; an 18 minute & 40 second Making of ; Backstory on the 12 ghosts ; William Castle article ; ' Excess ' music video by Tricky ; and Theatrical Trailer
you want some gum , Francis . . um i mean Gacy ?	This ' true ' crime picture is par for the course of the current crop of movies of the ilk , in that it's ripe with inaccuracies and seems to play it for more entertainment value more then anything else . That being said , the film is hardly the absolute worse of the sub-genre and Mark Holton does a serviceable if not particularly great acting job as the infamous John Wayne Gacy . But the characterization of any kind and seems shallow . There's nothing deep about this film and by being so banal it can be said that it trivializes the subject matter . Do yourself a favor and read a few books on Gacy instead , or if you want a great serial killer film then rent " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " post haste . Where I saw It : Encore Drama
A good Italian-American slasher ? fuhgeddaboudit	Wearing it's Italian-American heart on it's blood-soaked sleeve , this derivative horror film has a group of unlikable , stupid jocks and their girlfriends getting killed by a masked killer while a retired police detective pairs up with a female one to try to find out who the murderer is . Lamely acted and uninteresting , uninvolving plot line makes this play out like countless other ' teen slashers ' of the ' 90's / 2000's . Not a totally worthless film , merely a ho-hum bad one that no one give two damns about as they likely have seen some variation of it before ( and better ) . Sal Sirchia as Troy , a mentally challenged janitor , is absolutely horrible in his role in this film ( everyone else in the movie are FAR from master thespians themselves , but he stood out as the worst ) Eye Candy : Misty Meeler gets topless in the obligatory shower scene DVD Extras : 4 featurettes ( Music and the Sound , Special FX Make-up , The Beat down , and Rico Behind the Mask ) ; a Promo for Fear . net ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Midnght Meat Train " , " Seance " , " Dead Man's Bounty " , & " Christie's Revenge "
Not Rob at the top of his game	Stan Minton ( Rob Schneider ) gets a brief reprieve of 6 months to get his affairs in order before going to prison for fraud . His uses this time to hire a martial arts guru ( David Carradine ) to train him so that he won't get raped in the big house ( so afraid of the prospect that he buys a dildo for his significant other to violate him with . The reasoning being he wants his first time to be with someone he loves ) . Once in jail his problems seem to be a non-issue due to his extensive training , but he finds that the corrupt warden his other plans for his new home and the other inmates . Going into the film , I had mixed feelings . Sure Rob Schneider hadn't been in anything really good since the first Duece Bigalow film , but The Hot Chick had it's moments . That and being a fan of Carradine were the deciding factors to give this movie a chance . After having seen it , I have to say that I feel like I made the wrong choice . The humor is stale for the most part ( I did chuckle despite myself on perhaps one or two occasions ) , the rape jokes grow redundant after a while , and the mere thought of Rob being a ' tough guy ' is ludicrous ( must have sounded funnier written down as it's merely stupid in execution ) . In summarization , Big Stan ranks among Schneider's lower works and not worth the time it takes watching it . Eye Candy : Sally Kirkland gets topless very briefly ( begging the question how old is too old to bare skin )
so bad that I can't even think of a snappy summary	Twisted Sisters is about a set of twins ( both played by Fiona Horsey ) , one a pregnant , happily engaged successful business-woman , the other a man-hating castrating she-bitch who would get Gloria Steinem's seal of approval . It's also about an hour and a half too long . Crammed with barely adequate acting , very derivative storyline , and not particularly grisly deaths , this is one that can be skipped and you won't anything at all . It's been done , and done much better in " Sisters " Only recommended for true dyed in the wool fans of Director Wolfgang Büld , all two of you .
bad baba	Beautiful photographer Isabelle is pursued by beautiful witch Baba Yaga in an attempt to seduce her in this mess of a film based on a Italian comic . An quasi-artsy movie , the movie is beautifully filmed but is devoid of anything remotely entertaining . Even the copious amounts of nudity can't really give this wooden effort life . All the beatnik , pretentious , moronic dialog hampers this film immensely and furthermore the plot is rather boring and tedious . A woefully pretentious eurotrash mess if there ever was one . I can't find it in me to honestly recommend this mess to anyone . DVD Extras : 22 minute Interview with Director Corrado Farina ; Comic writer Guido Crepax documentary ; Deleted & censored scenes ; Poster & Stills gallery ; and Theatrical Trailer DVD-Rom : Comic book to film comparisons
maybe they should have stuck with the first side	Mike Robbins ( the highly prolific John Leslie ) leads a double life , by day a normal typical suburban husband to Julie ( Suzannah French ) , by night a high class gigolo . One day Julie's slutty cousin Kim , comes to visit ( she's hitch-hiking there and bangs anyone willing to give her a lift . I can't pick up girls like this why ? ) Then his wife's cousin's mother hires him unbeknowst to either party . This stirs up some trouble to say the least . But Julie isn't such a guilt-free angel herself . her husband's lack of interest leads her to masturbation and paying for sex herself . Most of the sex scenes simply aren't that hot or steamy . But then again not every adult film of the " golden Age " , can in fact be golden . Feel free to skip this one and not worry about missing anything .
When off-beat becomes off-putting	A 10 year old kid fed up with his parents arguing decides to hot wire a car and go on a surreal journey across America to find Motorama cards , which is a gas station card game , that if he can find to spell out " Motorama " he has a chance to win 500 million dollars . He meets many bizarre characters along the way . No one can make an ' instant cult classic ' , Joe Minion's previous " After Hours " achieved that by sheer merit & an amazing director , but it wasn't instant . This movie , on the other hand , is just bizarre just to be bizarre . No rhyme or reason to any of it . The plot is incidental at best and seems to exist just to showcase various cameos . It's just not a fun film nor a thoughtful one . It's way too slapped together . I've heard many comparisons between this and David Lynch films . That's damn near heresy as even Lynch's ' worst ' film ( worst in quotes , as he doesn't have an bad films really ) is still miles above this dreck . Eye Candy : Cynthia King is topless very briefly DVD Extras : Trailer for " Joe Dirt '
Cleanse your movie palette with crap	Poor Mike Strauber returns home one day to find his wife , Sharon sleeping around . This sends him on a downward spiral into nutzoid land and landing him into a mental hospital . But do to budget cuts and over-crowding he's sent home again . Where he challenges everyone to games of Truth or Dare . So refreshing to clear my mind of good well-made and intelligent movies every now are then and see a film ( and I use the term quite loosely ) that not only knows that it's crap , but relishes in the fact with insane dialog , moronic acting , and heaps & heaps of plentiful , if not particularly believable , gore effects . Some laugh out loud moments to be had , but all of those come in the second half of the film and you'll have to suffer through the first 45 or so minutes . Eye Candy : Mary Fanaro as Sharon gets topless DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Tim Ritter ; a 17 & a half minute respective Making of ; Film facts ; 2 Promo trailers , and Trailers for " Truth or Dare2 " and & part 3
no treats ( or Tricks for that matter )	Skippy from " Family Ties " plays Eddie , a wussy ' metal ' nerd who gets picked on . When his favorite wussy ' metal ' singer , Sammi Curr , dies , he throws a hissy fit tearing down all the posters on his bedroom wall . But when he later gets an unreleased record that holds the spirit of his dead ' metal ' idol . He first gets sucked into ideas of revenge , but then he doesn't want to take it as far as Sammi does . Which isn't really that far as his main victims only seem to go to the hospital . This movie is utterly laughable and has about as much to do with real metal as say , " Rock Star " . OK , maybe a tad more than that piece of junk , but you get my point . And how ANYone can root for a guy played by Skippy from " Family Ties " I haven't a clue . The cameo by Gene Simmons is OK , and Ozzy Osbourne reaches coherency , I applaud him for that , but otherwise skip this one . Eye Candy : Elise Richards gets topless , an a topless extra at a pool party
Traci can act vertically too it seems	This remake from Roger Corman's own 1957 " Not of this Earth " . shares pretty much the some plot as the original . Alien comes to Earth from a far-off world to acquire blood for his dying race . The only updates are blood and breasts . Taci Lord's first mainstream acting role and I suspect it's because her fellow actors are just horrid , because she comes out as being good in it . If you don't plan on seeing this film with a six-pack at the ready , then my advice is DON'T . Also to have the stunning Monique Gabrielle in the film , but only in a bit part AND make her ugly is a travesty . Wynorski made some pretty good B-movies in the start of his career , but this isn't one of them . However comparing this film to the ones that he puts out today , it's a masterpiece . DVD Extras : Commentary with JimWynorski and Lenny Juliano ; Cast and crew Bios ; and Trailers for " The Doorway " , " Humanoids from the Deep " , and " Brain Dead " Eye Candy : Ave Cadell , Belinda Grant , Roxanne Kernohan , Becky LeBeau , Taaffie O'Connell , and last but not least Traci Lords all let loose massive mammories . Traci shows her rump as well . This film is huge hooter heaven ( say that three times fast )
hampered with a tedious and mundane middle	Biker film legend William Smith is outlaw biker Angel in this B-grade drive in film that has a pretty good beginning and ending , but the middle is death incarnate . Angel has to go on the lam from his former fellow gang members after they get mad at him for agreeing to tell the secrets of their group to a newspaper for a good sum of money ( sizable for 1969 that is ) He's where we get to the crappy middle part . Angel and his lady hide out with a farmer and help him with the farm work . And the film just seems content to spin it's wheels , just padding out the running time by showing mundane tedious farm & rodeo footage , it picks up again somewhat during the end with the eventual confrontation , but that's not enough to make this a good film . William deserved better . Eye Candy : an extra as a topless dancer DVD Extras : Movie Intro & Commentary by Joe Bob Briggs ; 7 theatrical Trailers ( including German & French ) ; and trailers for " Hells Angels 69 " , " Hell High " , " Warlock Moon " , & " Hollywood Strangler meets the Skid Row Slasher "
just pretend this sequel never was	The Predator is now in the urban jungles of LA and it's up to Danny Glover to end his slaughter . Mixing unneeded humor with an undesired change of scenery leaves this film wounded before it even reaches the starting gate . Glover is NO Arnold in the least , the acting is horribly overdone , you could tell that a Predator line of toys would soon be on the way , a horrid lame story , crap special effects , all combine to make this one to miss . The only notable scene whatsoever is towards the ending that captured the imagination of fans of the Predator and Aliens franchises . But all for naught because after and impossibly long wait all the audience would get would be the highly Craptacular AVP mockery masquerading as an actual movie , which only served to make this one look good in comparison . Eye Candy : Teri Weigel gives frontal DVD Extras : 5 minute & 42 second 1990 promo featurette ; 3 minute , 41 second Making of from 1990 ; and Theatrical trailer
Disappointing	This 14 minute featurette can be located on New Line's Infinifilm DVD release of " Final Destination 2 " . It deals with ' scientists ' measuring how different people find themselves affected by " Final Destination 2 " and gauges the amount of ' terror ' on their brain . Overall this featurette is the least notable of the three on the DVD and comes off as a tad silly and slightly boring . It's not something I'd be interested in watching multiple times , as I found it a bit hard to sit through even once . It's slightly sad that I start recognizing people who've directed DVD extras , but I did recognize her from doing the Men in Black extras and if she had used her real name , one of the extras on the " Jason X " DVD .
goes nowhere and takes it's damn time getting there	Gina McVey ( Lena Headly from the Sarah Connor Chronicles ) sees her mirror image one day after a mirror breaks during a dinner being held for friends . Curiosity causes her to follow this ' other self ' which leads to a downward spiral of madness and despair in Sean Ellis's contribution to ( the increasingly misnamed ) ' 8 Films to Die For ' festival . One thing that struck me right off the bat was the surprising lack of nudity for much of the film ( yes there's a little bit in the second half of the film ) which is simply notable for the mere reason that Ellis's " Cashback " ( a superior film in every way compared to this one , by the way ) had tons of it and the actresses in this one take multiple baths & showers usually with no nudity on display . As a matter of fact if one got rid of the scenes of baths / showers & a certain car accident that we see play out over and over again , the film would've been maybe 45 minutes long . The other thing that I realized as the minutes drug slowly past is that this film was deathly drawn out . I can appreciate a slow-burning movie if it were tense & drew me in . This film did neither & only made me wish that I was watching Drew Barrymore's similarly themed " Doppleganger " instead . ( and trust me , I'm no big fan of that one either ) . This was the first of the third batch ' 8 Films to Die For " that I watched . Needless to say , it wasn't off to a good start . Eye Candy : Michelle Duncan & Lena Headly each show tits and ass ; while Elle Crocker body doubles for Michelle during a full frontal shot Lionsgate DVD Extras : Miss Horrorfest Web-isodes ( running 58 lame minutes in total ) ; a combo trailer for the 8 films to die for 3 ; and trailers for " A Haunting in Connecticut " , " Crank 2 " , " Punisher : War Zone " , " the Transporter 3 " , " Weapons " , " Midnight Meat Train " , & " Saw 5 "
not so young neurotic ( unlikable ) people screwing	Five couples traverse the pitfalls and prose of the contemporary sexual adventure scene in this slice-of - ( sex ) life dramady that on a whole goes nowhere . Most of the couples are rather bland , neurotic , and / or ( in the case of the married couple & the exes ) highly annoying . For a film with such a provocative title and subject matter , the movie is surprisingly and inoffensive . Even the few instances where a laugh can be found don't make thee watching experience worthwhile . This film approaches Woody Allen territory , but lacks the wit and style to pull it off . Eye Candy : Natalie Lisinska & Carly Pope show their tits ; Sonja Bennet provides the T & A DVD Extras : Just the theatrical trailer for this film and trailers for " Stuck " & " the night of the white pants " . It's a pretty bare bones release
Never trust a man wearing a bow-tie	Dan O'Bannon tells his opinion why horror works , and how he detest violence for violence's sake I like O'Bannon , I do . I enjoyed " Alien " , " Total Recall " , " Lifeforce " , his " Heavy Metal " segments , and to a lesser extent " Invaders from Mars " . But he does come off as a tad bit pretentious in this short featurette . Plus he's wearing a damn boy-tie . One of my rules is never EVER trust anyone in a bow-tie . It might sound silly , but that rule has treated me well thus far . So Roy ditch the unseemly apparel , poste haste . This 14 minute featurette can be found on Blue Underground's Limited Edition DVD of " Dead and Buried "
Could have been an OK short film	After Rngmaster Rick dies under mysterious circumstances , his granddaughter , Casey , inherits his doll / co-stay from his children's ' TV show days , not knowing that the pint-sized puppet is alive thanks to good old granddad selling his soul to the devil for fame . Now anyone is fair game as the doll goes on a mini-rampage . Even at barely over an hour , this movie choose to move at a pretty leisurely pace and still feels padded a tad and the film stumbles to it's foreseeable , but unsatisfying conclusion . While not a good film by any stretch of the imagination , it was still much the better then the similarly plotted " Triloquist " ( not that that's a great accomplishment or anything ) Eye Candy : Erica Slider & Nina Tepes show everything ( full frontal and ass )
Much too laid-back	An unseen killer is murdering people that know too much in connection with an earlier unsolved case of a missing girl . I like the giallo genre , but this one by Tonino Valerii is laid back to the point of being tedious , a few gory set-pieces can't even help this film . The ending is horribly cliché and the film has one scene that featured a fully naked prepubescent girl that repulsed me . There is NO reason to put a nude eleven or twelve year-old in any film . EVER ! I'm going to sell my copy of the DVD because of that . DVD Extras : Interview with Tonino Valerii and George Hilton ; Trailers for " What have you done to Solange ? " , " Spasmo " , " Seven blood stained Orchids " , and " Hitcher in the Dark " Eye Candy : Marilu Tolo as the detective's girlfriend gets topless , but she's not that good-looking
Another sub-standard film based on a good TV series of yesteryear	Yet another film based on a TV show that completely tarnishes the reputation of it's source material , this time it's SWAT that gets the bum shift . Samuel Jackson , playing Sgt . Hondo , leads a swat team that is charged with transporting an arrested drug kingpin into federal custody . They must contend with other criminals who have been offed a hundred million dollars to anyone who can spring him from his confinement . The problem with the film is that it's horribly clichéd , so much so that one can't help but feel a strong sense of deja-vu throughout . The sad thing is the movie WOULD HAVE been at least passable of it weren't for the obviously shoehorning of Michelle Rodriguez in a role that reeks of blatant typical Hollywood political correctness . DVD Extras : Commentary with director Clark Johnson , actors Samuel L . Jackson , LL Cool J , Brian Van Holt , Josh Charles , and actress Michelle Rodriguez ; Second commentary by writers Ron Mita , Jim McClain , David Ayer and David McKenna ; 5 Featurettes ; 8 Deleted Scenes ; Gag Reel ; a TV Favorites Compilation trailer ; and Trailers for Bad Boys 2 , Once Upon A Time In Mexico , Big Fish , Radio , & Underworld 2 Easter Egg : Highlight Collin Ferrall's badge in the first page of the Deleted scenes page for the Director talking about a police chase going through the set when they were shooting on location On the second page of the Extras section highlight Samuel Jacksons hat for footage of the cast and crew playing golf
such talent , such promise , such a waste	Luke Wilson , so brilliant in the same year's " Idiocracy " , seems to be just phoning it in as a doofus who has a few dates with a certifiably crazy superhero played by Uma ' huge feet ' Thurman . Eddie Izzard , actually wearing normal clothes this time , is the bad guy who secretly likes her . Ivan Reitman is a LONG way away from the classics that he directed in the 1980's ( and Kindergarden Cop , of course ) and he along with writer Don Payne have come up with a movie so bereft of laughs of any kind that it pained me just to look at it . Oh and Wanda Sykes is in it , doing whatever she does . Usually with comments like " you people ? Who you talking ' bout you people ? ? ? " and well basically all she does is racial sh & # . I don't like her , but EVEN she was underused ! ! Poor poor Anna Faris trapped in a sea of being in bad movies ( when she's not making Scary Movie 82 , or whatever that horrid series is up to now ) I really dislike when my girlfriend picks out the movies to rent . Along with this she got " Employee of the Month " so I have THAT to look forward to . Yea , I don't envy me either .
Now the 2005 one can't HELP but look great	With the big budget Fantast Four film opening this upcoming July , I've decideded that nows the time to take a look at this unreleased Roger Cormen ' gem ' from more than a decade ago . After getting hit by cosmic rays and having their space shuttle blown us 4 friends are turned fantastic . Well maybe not that fantastic giving the budget , but you can't call the film " hammily acted below mediocre Four " can you ? After undergoing some tests , they're off to fight the fabulous flamboyantly gay Dr . Doom . This is in the same league as " Superman 4 " , " Batman and Robin " , and " The Star Wars Holiday Special " in it's sheer awfulness . I kinda hope it was released way back when , if only because it would have made a great MST3K episode .
By this time the " Golden Age " of porn was dead	In this porn version of the sleeping beauty fairytale , the king , apparently from the Bronx , is cheating on the queen . After he buffs her , she tells him she's a fairy and places an evil curse on the King's offspring . The Princess ( Hyapatia Lee ) will fall into a deep , deep sleep after being eaten out when she turns 21 . She'll stay that way till a prince kisses her . The inane attempt at humor falls flatter than most of the porn starlets ' chests , all of the sex scenes are unerotic . All in all , a failure . For Fairytale porn , go seek out 1976's Alice in Wonderland instead .
It's NO Embrace of the Vampire , that's for sure	Having very little to do with the original Drew Barrymore starring vehicle , this sequel that ups the titillation and seaminess factor , has Alyssa Milano as Lily , an art major who recently went off to college in California . Like many ' innocent ' , ' wholesome ' girls that go off to college in that state , it isn't long before she becomes a man hungry raving slut . Her transformation starts when she finds the diary of the deceased man hungry slut who lived in her dorm room before her . She lusts for this one guy in particular while her elderly art instructor lusts after her . The first film in the series was mediocre at best , so to say that this one gave me some trepidation over whether I should even watch it is a pretty accurate statement . But when I saw that it reunited Milano with Director Anne Goursaud , whom she last teamed up with for a little B-movie soft-core gem " Embrace of the Vampire ' , I decided to give the film a try . Well sadly lightning rarely ever strikes twice and the poor acting , lack of involving story , and most importantly not as much nude Alyssa as compared to the earlier Embrace , all turned me off and I found myself bored to tears long before the movies predictable final reel . Eye Candy : Tara Ellison , Victoria Hass & Kate Rodger get topless ; Alyssa Milano shows off T & A Where I saw it : @ Max
a mess	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Dad's Dead " runs about 6 and a half minutes and is a tale of a boy and his childhood seemingly sociopath friend told in a blend of animation , real life , and photo stills . It seemed a wee bit artsy for my tastes and I found myself becoming uninterested in it before too long . If one can't hold the viewers attention for 6 mere minutes that , my friend , is a pretty big problem . But Kev , you say , it won so many awards . Aye , this is true , but I've never been to big on Awards that the industry gives out themselves . So that doesn't sway me on if something's good or not . This simply is not .
shrugs	This 23 minute and 42 second feature on the making of the Hulk movie that can be found on the 2nd disc of the 2-DVD special edition of " The Hulk " . It centers around the cast , the crew , the stunts and physical effects , ILM ( Industrial Lights and Magic ) work , and last but not least the music composed for the film . I didn't really care for some of the things that Ang Lee said in the featurette ( such as no one ever caring about Bruce Banner in the comic ) and myself being nonchalant about the film in the first place I wasn't really engaged with the 23 odd minutes that it took to watch this featurette .
Horrid but not bottom 250 horrid .	A series of painfully unfunny skits that seem to go on forever and a day . Not as mind-numbingly awful as say " Freddy Got Fingered " or " Lost Reality " , but that in NO way is an endorsement in ANY way , sense or form . Features the worst rhyming clown ever . Any most if it isn't offensive to anybody but the most prudish or politically correct . It also has the worst song parody EVER put on film , the WORST Arnold impersonation EVER ( not just the worst put on film , literally the worst EVER ) . I have NO clue why Karen Black , Micheal Clarke Duncan , or Slash would star in this ( the reasons I watched this in the first place ) The only thing mildly amusing was Dickman . In conclusion I would't recommend this film to ANYONE , but the people who are making it their mission in life to get this in the Bottom 250 on this site are pathetic . Do something notable with you lives people . Plus if it's true the Church of Scientalogy hates him , he can't be ALL bad .
awful	Two girlfriends are interested in witchcraft , so one night after their third girlfriend shows up with a bruised eye courtesy of her boyfriend , they hold a mock satanic ritual . Something goes wrong and they wind up conjuring up a 300 year dead witch named Lillith ( played by scream queen Brinke Stevens ) . I've not seen the previous two Witchcraft films so I can't vouche if this one is a step-up or a let down ( I really hope its the latter and not the former ) compared to those , but I can still judge the film on it's own merits . Nothing really happens until the last half hour or so and when it does it relies on a ridiculous plot twist that took me out of the movie . It DID make me want to see some of the better films that Tina has been in , but not much else . Eye Candy : Tina Krause gets topless in a shower scene
confused	This is the most messed up entry on IMDb that I've yet to stumble across . All the previous reviewers act like this is the movie . This is NOT the movie . Rather it's merely a featurette that's an extra on the DVD of the movie " The One " It also nowhere near being the 90 minutes that it's listed here as . In actuality it's barely over 13 minutes of how cool Jet Li can do martial arts . and his reflections on the movie . So yeah this IMDb entry is quite a bit fubar . Don't listen to any of the other reviews as they are ALL wrong . You can trust me , because I never feed you , dear reader , BS . and that's the truth . i guess u can say that i'm " the One " Reviewer that matters .
not cleared for lift off	Hershel Savage and Pat Manning introduce us to Flight Sensation , a pretty much wall-to-wall screw fest . One of the reasons I rarely , if ever , review newer porn movies is their decided lack of plot , so I mistakenly went into this Golden Age movie thinking that it would have at least some semblance of that attribute ( as adult films before the late 1980's usually did have plot believe it or not ) . It didn't hurt that I loved the Director's other film that I saw , " A Dirty Western " , that film was refreshingly different . This one , on the other hand , is decidedly stale . Hershel and Pat both talk to the camera about how good the movie you're watching is ( something I never like ) and with a tag line like ' " 22 " of the top adult stars in one film ' you best utilize those aforementioned stars in the right way . This film simply doesn't . None of the sex scenes stood out as anything more then mediocre .
Direct Miss	Jo Champa overacts , what with her constant blubbering , while William Forsythe underacts , what with his hoarse whisper talk , creepy looks & what not , in this by-the-numbers action flick about a hit-man who has a change of heart & protects the woman whom he was supposed to kill . He then has to protect her from other hitmen . Forsythe as an action hero is NO Brian Bosworth , he's no Don ' the Dragon ' Wilson , hell he isn't even a Brick Bronsky ! ! Where i saw it : TMC Extra
the Hell's Angel's deserve much better	Tom Stern and Jeremy Slate are swing bachelor's planning to hijack a casino , ala " Ocean's 11 " , and pin it on the Hell's Angels . Bad move . For a film with the words Hell's Angels AND the number 69 AND featuring actual Hell's Angels , this movie is surprisingly tame . The Hell's Angels truly deserve a better film to be centered around them . Not this snoorefest . Luckily this is one of the DVDs that features commentary by Joe Bob Briggs so the pain of having to sit through it is greatly alleviated . If you watch it any other way , let me recommend something to you . DON'T ! ! DVD Extras : Joe Bob Brigg's commentary ; Conny Van Dyke's message to her fans ( she has more than one ? ) ; Photo gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Blood Shack " , " Hell High " , " Samurai Cop " , and " The Hollywood Strangler "
A standard sitcom plot stretched to feature length	Fred Berlow ( Jeff Daniels ) grows up loving vaccums crying more for the prospect of losing a vacuum than when his mom dies . When he's a grown man he becomes a Super Sucker ( NEVER call it a vacuum ) salesman , in competition with a fellow seller and fighting to keep his distribution rights . The owner gives them one more contest to see who gets more sales . The loser will be fired . Of course Fred's Super sucker group of salesman don't do well at all at first against the rival salesman group's flashier tactics , but thanks to a super sucker attachment that thanks to it's size is a hit with women and gay men they might stand a chance . This film is quaint , but cant help but fall apart as time goes on . There's a few ( VERY few ) laughs scattered here and there , but " Used Cars " is still so much better .
dated humor is indeed a modern problem	Chevy Chase stars as Max Fiedler , a down on his luck air traffic controller who develops the power of telekinesis via nuclear waste . He uses said power to take vengeance on anyone that had wronged him . A mildly intriguing premise is undermined by loose , unfunny writing , horrid acting , and dated material . I couldn't even count the laughs I had on one hand . It's a chore to sit through with the only actor coming out relatively unscathed being Brian Doyle-Murray who is pretty damn good in ANYthing he does no matter how horrid the material ( case in point )
Pedophiles arn't funny	In the future of 2001 , Freddy is after the last surviving teenager of Elm Street . Forsaking ANY scares whatsoever for unfunny attempts at humor and needless celebrity cameos ( come on . . Roseanne ? ? ? Tom Arnold ? ? ! ! ? ? WTF ? ) , this is tied with part 2 is the worst the demon child rapist ever got . Wow was this a piece of crap . Not even the great legendary Alice Cooper could make the stench of this movie go away . And when they hell did Freddy ever have a daughter ? ? The whole film is severely retarded in ever single conceivable way , shape & form . Rachel Talalay , you stink to high heaven , babe . DVD Extras : Cast and Crew Bios ; Jump to the 3D sequence and Jump to a Nightmare options ( more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set ) DVD-Rom content : Trivia game ; Screenplay ; and web link
no harm , but somewhat foul	An American businessman wants to build a hotel on a remote island , so he has someone sail him and his girlfriend there to check it out . The zombie scenes seem tacked on as an afterthought , so as a horror film this doesn't really work that well . However due to the ridiculous dialog and the hardcore sex scenes the film MIGHT be worth it for drunken party type viewing , but even that is stretching it ( pardon the pun ) Feel free to skip this one , as it's only remote interesting as a curiosity . That being said the way champagne is uncorked in the film is ingenious . Eye Candy : more than you can shake a decaying limb at DVD Extras : 27 minutes of Alternate footage ; Production stills & Laura Gemser stills gallery ; X-rated Trailer ; and trailers for " Zombi 2 " , " Emanuelle And The Last Cannibals " , " Nightmares Come at Night " , & " Slaughter Hotel " Easter Egg : In the main menu , highlight scene access and press down to get to a hidden skull , click on it for the French opening credits
is it good ? no not really	Aki arrives at a new school on the same day as a new zombie virus outbreak is starting due to a faulty vaccination . She must save the school . OK , not really that much of a story to this one , but you get a boatload of ultra-gore ( even if it's very cheesy and fake looking ) , frequent nudity , lesbianism & a laser vagina , what more can you expect from a Japanese film with this title ? ? Not really a good film by even the most lenient of traditional standards , however I found myself having fun with it ( to an extent ) . On the downside , even at less then an hour & a half , it does seem to go on a bit too long Eye Candy : Sasa Handa frequently shows T & A ; 2 other shows tits DVD Extras : the Region 1 DVD has no extras
don't rent , wait for cable	Good movies are easy to praise . Bad movies are easy to rip apart . Those films that lie in between the two , are for me the hardest to review . This film based on Chuck Barris's book about the gong show host being a CIA agent is one of those in between movies . The direction is good , but you don't feel for any of the characters . There are a few amusing scenes , but there are many dull & drawn out scenes as well . I do find it hard to believe a talented writer such as Kaufman could have wrote the screenplay for something this tedious . Eye Candy : For the ladies , Sam Rockwell's assDVD Extras : Trailers for Kill Bill , Dysfunktional family , view from the top , soundtrack trailer ; 11 Deleted scenes ; 7 Behind-the-scenes ; Sam Rockwell screen tests ; the real chuck Barris featurette , Commentary with George Clooney & Newton Thomas Sigel ; 5 re-created Gong Show acts & Still gallery
My ' Stiff ' was missing during this one too	Tracy Lords is a detective whom , along with a nerded-out Tom Bryron has to discover the secret of Stacey Donovan's husband . The humor is as juvenile as Tracy is , the only thing that made me crack a smile was her reading a book called ' the G Spot ' , she of course had a part in the MUCH better " The Grafenberg Spot " of the same year . Plus I just plainly never liked Jesse Eastern , nor Heather Wayne , something about their looks put me off . And some of the close-ups to some of the girls genitals lets you know they've been in the industry for a tad too long . All I can say is loose lips sink ships , if you get my drift . My Porn
Lame duck sequel	Agent J ( Will Smith ) now partnered with Agent T ( Patrick Warburton , Puddy from " Seinfeld " ) , after wiping out the memories of Agent K ( Tommy Lee Jones ) . When that partnership doesn't work out as planned , and with Agent J on a mission that he needs all the help he needs , he goes out to make agent K remember and partner up once again to foil the plans of an alien spore in the guess of a centerfold model . This film was an obvious attempt to cash in on a franchise . And it obviously worked since it made oodles of cash . But as a true movie , it's a lost cause as it's just more of the same of the first movie . Minus the originality , and even the minuscule amount of charm that the first one had . Instead really too much on sight gags and lame humor , sacrificing the story , as flimsy as it might be . Only worthy of a rental , simply for the " Chubbchubbs " short that is available on the same DVD . 2 disc DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary with director Barry Sonnenfeld with optional " Telestrator Diagrams " - feature ; access to the " behind the scenes " during the film ; " The ChubbChubbs ! " short ; Teaser & Theatrical trailer ; Trailers for " Spider-Man " , " Ghostbusters " , " The Mask of Zorro " ; Game trailers for " Alien Escape " & " MIIB Crossfire " Disk 2 ) " Special Delivery MIIB Orb " ; Blooper Reel ; Serleena Animatic Sequence ; 5 Multi Angle Scene Deconstructions ; Alternate Ending ; 7 Creature Featurettes ; poster gallery ; Will Smith music video ; and Cast & crew filmographies and biographies DVD-Rom : " MIIB Crossfire " - game demo ; Weblinks ; " Behind the scenes " - featurettes & concept designs ; and Screenplay
take solace in the fact that the ' goofy gophers ' were never heard of again , at least	Two British gophers are storing their nuts for the weekend , when they find that much of their tree has been taken away which they have to find and bring it back . ' Goofy Gophers ' indeed , try ' utterly lame never heard from again ' gophers . I hold Looney Tunes shorts to a higher standard and when said standard isn't realized ( or in this case even close ) , I'm sorely disappointed , and such is the case with this one . It just plain not the good at all and that saddens me a bit . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 .
He's not heavy , he's my brother	The brother of the zombified rapist from the first film goes around raping and killing various women . When he visits his brothers grave , his vomit and urine resurrects the undead zombie , who does his undead raping thing . Both detectives are back after them , thus negating the end of the first one ( that's just plain sloppy ) This sequel attempt to serve up more . More blood , MUCH more nudity , even more porn starlets ( the first had Dru Barrymore , who didn't even get naked . Whereas this one has Gen Padova , Taylor St . Clair , and Lisa Sparxxx ) . But in this case more isn't necessarily better , and the part of the film that focuses on the zombie's brother just comes off as some sick death fetish video . All in all a tad better then the first , but not by much Eye Candy : 11 pairs of breasts ( not including the ones in the opening montage ) , some hair pie ( including a few close ups ) , and a few asses
better then I expected , still nothing special	Two sisters , their perverted brother , and their cousin have car trouble . They then happen about the home of Dr . Hackenstein whom conveniently needs the body parts of three nubile young women to use in an experiment to bring his deceased lover back to life . He tells them that he'll help them get home in the morning , so they spend the night . Then the good doctor gets down to work in this low-budget horror-comedy . I found this to be mildly amusing , nothing at all to actually go out of your way for ( I stumbled across it on Netflix instant view & streamed it to the xbox 360 ) , but better then I expected it to be for a Troma acquired film . Most of the humor doesn't work , but their are still some parts that caused me to smile . Plus the late , great Anne Ramsey has a small part and she was always a treat to watch . Eye Candy : Bambi Darro & Sylvia Lee Baker got topless
Bigfoot can always be counted on for a Big snooze	A group of forest rangers and scientists go into the woods to find fossils . They stumble on a Bigfoot burial ground eventually ( the didn't notice it in the dark ) , The scenes of the CGI Bigfoot are horrid , but better than the endless scenes of talking that they rarely punctuate . I used to think that there just might be a good Bigfoot movie to be made . But now after so many sad sad movies about the legend , I'm having serious doubts . To pour salt in the wound of watching this film , the ONE good-looking girl just doesn't get naked once . And while this one MAY be better than " Boggy Creek 2 " ( no mean feat there ) , it's still sad that the best non-documentary film on Bigfoot remains " Harry and the Henriksons "
disappointed	Unlike most of the reviewers of this particular movie , I'm really not the much of a Cynthia Rothrock fan , to say the least . However when I saw that the movie had Fred Williamson and Robert Forster ( both great actors ) , I just had to watch the film . Williamson is a Dakota Smith , an alcoholic cop who is demoted to scrubbing toilets with a toothbrush and even worse having to team up with Cynthia at the behest of the captain ( Robert Forster ) . Forster is always watchable , it's just a crying shame that the movie itself is so damn trite and clichéd . It also features one of the least terrifying villains ever to be committed to celluloid . Williamson would return to the Dakota character in a few more films , the next one being " Down N Dirty " Eye Candy : Nina Richardson shows some T & A ; Mary Kapper goes topless Where I saw it : Showtime Extreme
Some movies should never see the light of day	X-men's Anna Paquin is Regina , a typical rebellious teen who moves with her parents and kid brother back to the remote house that the father grew up in . Sooner then you can say " the Shining " the father starts acting a bit loony and the kid brother is getting the stuffing kicked out of him by . . . The Darkness . No not the great metal band ( although that would make for a much better movie ) , no , literal darkness . For a film about an insane dad , there's LONG stretches where absolutely nothing happens remotely interesting . The performances of the actors are serviceable , even if nothing their characters do are believable . With an ending that'll have you throwing a pillow at the TV in it's abruptness screaming " Is that all ? ? ? I wasted 102 minutes on that steaming pile ? ? ! ! ? " That's why if you MUST see this film then watch the PG-13 version , it'll make as much sense ( or lack there of ) as the 102 minute version and you'll save yourself almost 20 minutes , that you can do something useful with .
ooh , witchy woman	Perhaps having Ann Hamilton , known for primarily chick flick TV , write this episode wasn't such a good idea , as this episode starring a young pre-American Beauty Thora Birch about a secret coven of witches who take interest in a young girl who's one of them and the government who dislikes them is basically the equivalent of any generic Lifetime movie . Marginally good acting , but it just didn't have the feel of an Outer Limits episode and is definite nowhere near the caliber of storytelling I expect from the aforementioned show . ( even if those expectations were already reduced as opposed to the original better series .
Sadly uses up all it's creative juices in the beginning	Tenacious D rock , director Liam Lynch rocks , and the old HBO TV show rocks , so to say that I was looking forward to this film is an understatement . Making Meatloaf JB's father was a stroke of genius , but sadly nothing to do after the beginning his character disappears from the film ( except for a lame hallucination ) . Dio having a cameo was great too sadly the movie can't live up to the admittedly great beginning opting to go the route of lame jokes and an uninspired plot . ( roadtrip to find a fabled guitar pick made from Satan's tooth ) Tenacious D deserves much better than this . Don't know if I'd even recommend it to die hard fans of the D , as owning the Masterworks collection , the first Cd , and seeing them in concert multiple times , I , myself might fall into that category . This movie definitely didn't rock my ( expletive deleted ) socks off .
this movie is BAAAAAAAd	Reverand Salo Jr . invites five teenage druggies who escape from rehab to come to his secluded house on a promise of salvation . Salo Jr . and his wife's daughter , Grace , is very unhappy , but keeps getting dreams and visions of her grand-father , Salo Sr . ( Kreskin , whom I refuse to call him ' Amazing ' ) . Some of the teens have adverse effects to the drug that Salo Jr . had given them prior to them breaking out of rehab . Both the plot lines will entangle before long . OK , about this film . Weird & obtuse does NOT automatically equate to scariness and Kreskin is not a good actor bring the whole movie down . Is it a bad film ? That's debatable . Is it a good horror movie ? hell no it isn't . DVD Extras : Director's Commentary ; 9 and a half minute Behind the scenes featurette ; on the set with Kreskin ; Photo Gallery ; " Desecration " video short ; Extended Horror Trailer ; and Trailer for " Desecration "
Third time is NOT the charm	Blade has to join with a group of " Nightstalkers " to defeat Dracula himself , after he's set-up by killing a human disguised as a vampire . I enjoyed the first two Blade movies . But this one left me cold . The introduction of the unneeded and unfunny " comedy " side-kicks , combined with David Goyer's poor directing makes this outing a chore to sit through . Triple H is highly underused and has maybe one good line throughout . The fight scenes are far from as great as they were in the first two films . Needless to say I was very disappointed and the movie took me back to those early movies based on Marvel comic properties before they got good .
Why do I even bother with Franco ?	Maria has been sent to a prison on an remote island where the warden is giving kickbacks to the warden of the mens ' prison on the other side of the island via his choice of girl inmates . Naturally he has his eye on fresh meat Maria . The government gets a whiff of the corruption and sends a plant in to investigate the abuses . For a WIP flick I was surprised how tame it was , for a Franco flick i was very surprised how tame it was . The only thing that keeps one falling asleep is the horribly inserted porn inserts that don't fit well into the film in the least . What's laughable is that Franco fans ( yea hard to believe they're people out there who are ) actually got angry that Franco's name is even on this version . Yea , we can't have his sterling image as an ingenious competent visionary be sullied snicker X-rated version DVD Extras : Nothing at all
puuhhhllleeeezzee	This mini-documentary did nothing for me . You have a guy , David , who is talking of Edith eccentricities of those glasses , while wearing what looks like something Seinfeld was tricked into wearing on the Tonight Show in one of the better Seinfeld episode . I mean please , paging Mr . Blackwell , you're needed at the front desk . Anywho , it's relatively short , but I still wouldn't recommend it . I've seen much better . It just makes me long that Paramount did a better job on the Special Edition . It IS a great movie . the extra should compliment that . Alas , they didn't . This short featurette can be found as an extra on the Special Edition of " sunset Blvd . "
too repetitive	This 18 minute featurette can be located on New Line's Infinifilm DVD release of " Final Destination 2 " . It features interviews of people who had near-death experiences . And gives a brief outline of what the meaning and behind the phenomenon is , as well as a history of it . It's not really all the convincing . But I believe that THEY believe what they're talking about . , but even at just 18 minutes it IS a bit on the long side for those not really interested in the subject matter of said documentary . The interviewees also often repeat repeat themselves . If it was a bit sorter it would have been better .
rotten meat	This featurette contains interviews with pretty much all the cast , director , producer and whatnot . But none of them say much of anything . After watching it , you're thinking to yourself : " Self , that was much to do about nothing " In fact all the extras that can be found on the " Wrong Turn " DVD are all fluffy and insubstantial . That's pretty much a shame as the movie itself isn't that bad and I kinda dug it ( don't get me wrong , I enjoyed the similar indy movie " The Undertow " quite a bit more , but for a teen horror film made by Hollywood , this film wasn't bad ) I just wish the extras weren't as dull and tedious as what we got on this disk . This short 9 minute documentary can be found on 20th Century Fox's Region 1 of the " Wrong Turn " DVD .
refer to the Z rule	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Prison Warz " is just Kung-Fu set to techno music . If you've been following my reviews , you'd know that I made a rule after suffering through " Party Animalz " not to trust films with the letter Z where S should be . Yup , that rule is in affect for this short as well . On the entertainment scale it's a tad above seeing the video of the fat wanna be " Star Wars " kid doing his fake light-saber thing . Just not nearly as gut-splitting hilarious . I'd pay to see that kid in a Gonnies sequel . I wouldn't pay to see these fools in anything .
mindless drivel	Bred all her life to be an assassin , Shion is the best at what she does . But when she develops a conscience for no reason whatsoever , choosing to go home and masturbate with her gun rather than kill her mark , her clergy bosses ( Yup they're involved in this too , the bad clergy is pretty much a groan-worthy movie cliché now ) are none too happy and mark her for death . This flick was somewhat of a chore to sit through and really doesn't make much sense if you think about it . Pure mindless drivel . DVD Extras : Character bios ; Trivia game ; and Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Beautiful Beast " , " Dimension Travelers " , " Tokyo Mafia : Yakuza Wars " , " Blowback : Love and Death " , and Zero Woman : Assassin Lovers " DVD Rom : Photo gallery , Cast info , Script , Production credits and weblinks Eye Candy : Makiko Kuno gets topless multiple times
sewer dwelling	Norman Hopper ( the great John Saxon ) is on a mission to save Prisiners of war while on a tour of duty in Vietnam . He and his men find the POWs , but they seem to have been overwhelmed by cannibalism and one bites Hopper on the arm . This turns out to be a recurring nightmare that Norman has of his time in that war . Later that afternoon he receives a call from an old war buddy who's in a bind . He pays it no mind , until he gets wind that his same friend is going nuts and hold up in a department store , which prompts Hopper to go down there in an attempt to talk him down . Seems they've both been infected with a disease that makes one crave human flesh and is transmitted through biting . Soon Hopper , himself , joins in the havoc been wrecked . This could have been an alright film , but a shoddy script and less than convincing acting ( Saxon excluded obviously ) , brings this one down , the long stretches of boredom don't help either . I think the last line off the film puts it best : " Call the chief and tell him this nightmare is over " . Nightmare indeed . Eye Candy : a hint of Cinzia De Carolis's bush & an unknown extras bares left titDVD Extras : Uncut edition ; 54 minute " Cannibal Apocalypse Redux " featurette ; 6 & a half minute tour of filming locations ; Poster & Stills gallery ; Cast and crew filmographies ; 8 minute Alternate American opening ; Text essay detailing the butchering of the film ; and European & Japanese theatrical trailers3 Easter Eggs : go to the extras menu and there's an invisible bone over the guys tongue , click on it for the film's original theatrical trailer ; Go to the filmographies menu highlight ' John Saxon ' and press right for the original theatrical trailer for " La ragazza che sa-peva troppo " ; now highlight ' John Morghen ' and press left for the original theatrical trailer of " Make Them Die Slowly "
Fantisize a better movie	A scientist must protect the fragile planet while finding a way to destroy aliens after being infected . The plot doesn't matter and is paper thin anyway . The character's one-dimensional and boring . Even the combined talent of James Woods , Steve Buscemi , and Donald Sutherland are unable to save this colossal bore fest . Just look at the computer animation . ooh and aah if you must . Then forget the film ever existed . DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) commentary with Moto Sakakbara , Hiroyuki Hayashida , Tatsuro Maruyama and Takoo Noguchi ; Second commentary with Andy Jones , Chris S . Capp and Tani Kunitake ; Isolated score commentary by Elliot Goldenthal ; Playblast and storyboard selects with optional commentary by Andy Jones , Chris S . Capp and Tani Kunitake ; Teaser & Theatrical trailers ; Trailers for " Final Fantasy X " ( the game ) , " Men In Black " , " Metropolis " and " Starship Troopers " Disk 2 ) " The Making Of Final Fantasy " 30-minute interactive documentary with optional commentary ; 4 featurettes ( " Trailer explorations , The Gray Project , Matte Explorations , and Composting Builds ) ; 7 in-depth character profiles ; Original Opening ; Aki's Dream sequence ; Joke Outtakes blooper reel ; 3 vehicle scale comparisons ; and Scene re-editor DVD-Rom : Screenplay ; printable drawstring ; tour of square ; and screen-saver 7 Easter Eggs : On disc one go to the DVD-Rom content menu and find a hidden Chinese symbol to see Aki in bikinis , leather outfits and nude ; Now onto the second disc , At the menu menu there's 2 eggs to be found , find the for a storyboard of an romantic dinner and one of AKI's 3D head model ; From the second page of the Highlights menu , go to the video in the corner from a Final Fantasy version of " Thriller " ; find the hidden star in the Vehicle Scales comparison menu for a slide show of vehicle renderings ; In the Character Files menu there's another egg ; and one more in the DVD-ROM content menu
lacks the fangs of the original	Newly transplanted to California , siblings Chris and Nicole soon find themselves up to the necks in vampires ( headed by Angus Sutherland , Kiefer's half-brother ) Chris must deal with the tribe of bloodsuckers ( with the help of one half of the Frog brothers duo , namely Edgar , Corey Feldman reprising his role from the first film ) after his sister's been bitten but not fully turned yet . Well this sequel wasn't outright horrid , it still felt like a supremely unneeded retread of the first film which is this one superior in every conceivable way . The original Lost Boys was an 1980's classic , whereas this film with it's lame duck plot , sub-par acting , and lack of chills or tension will be lucky to be a one sentence footnote of the 2000's . The last scene after the credits , on the other hand , is just painfully awful Eye Candy : Moneca Delain provides the T & ADVD Extras : 2 featurettes ( Action junkies & Edgar Frog's Guide to Coming Back ) ; 2 alternate endings ; & 4 music videos
Wastes the talents of Lange	Artie Lange can be extremely funny when he wants to as evidenced on Howard's Serius radio show , sadly that's not really in evidence in the fifty millionth " Bad News Bears " remake . Artie plays a character named Artie who's the pitcher of a pretty bad minor softball team who of course is in conflict with a rival better team . He also falls in love with the town slut . While still better than the atrocious " Beerfest " that came out around the same time , very few of the jokes hit it out of the park and i found myself getting very bored with the film quickly and checking my watch multiple times . Didn't help that one of the female characters voice was annoying enough to make me puncture my eardrums . Eye Candy : Multiple girls show skin during the bachelor party scene , but it's Keisha who's the real standout there
Precinct 13 ( now with 80 % more ghetto )	It's New Year's eve , a cop-killer ( in the form of , Laurence Fishburne ) end up at a precinct that's closing down due till snow . When the people are layed siege on , cops have to team up with cons to survive . This re-make of the John Carpenter classic just had to add a few beyond stupid plot twists , take out all the tension , and add a horrid John Lequizamo to the cast , didn't it ? The first film was thrilling , gritty , and a joy to watch . This one is more Hollywood , clichéd , and painful to behold . The only thing I took from this movie was OCD can be very annoying . . . VERY . The ending song is SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO bad . DVD Extras : Commentary by Richet , Demonaco and Jeffrey Silver ; Delet scenes with optional commentary ; 5 minute " Armed and Dangerous " featurette on the weapons expert ; 7 and a half minute " behind Precinct Walls " ; " Plan of Attack " ; " The Assault Team " ; 12 and a half minute behind the scenes featurette ; , Trailers for " Unleashed " , " White Noise " , : Seed of Chucky " Miscelanious : I got this at Best Buy and it came with a bonus disc including the first 2 minutes of " Cry Wolf " ; a 10 minute first look at " Unleashed " ; the trailer for that film ; and a Fuzion interview with John Leguizamo
lame in name only sequel	Nick Larson is devastated when his lover and friends are killed in a car accident . One year later , he finds that he can go back in time to change history . Having nothing at all to do with the Ashton Kutcher vehicle , this in name only sequel isn't nearly as edgy or dark . In fact the movie is tame , lifeless , and void of any real reason to watch it at all . Competently directed , but horribly written and full of glaring plot-holes . But for Michael Weiss ( I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer , Death Train , Octopus ) that's par for the course . If you told me a few days back that I'd wish for anything with Kutcher in it , I'd have called you crazy . However , that's exactly what I long for . Stick with the original film and skip this pathetic attempt to quickly cash in on the name . DVD Extras : Audio commentary by Director John Leonetti & co-producer Micheal Stirling ; ' on the set of ' featurette ; Promo trailer ; and Trailers for " Butterfly Effect " , " Snakes on a Plane " , " Undisputed 2 " , " Take the Lead " , " Nightmare on Elm Street " , " Rest Stop " , & " Nightmares & Dreamscapes "
not enough to chew on	Yaphet Kotto is Bone , a bulky black man , ( as well as thief & rapist ) . He appears in the life of Bill ( Andrew Duggan ) & Bernadette ( Joyce Van Patten ) , a seemingly rich white couple . Bone is a hodge-podge of a movie with something social commentary to say . That's not to say it's a bad movie ( it does have shining spots ) , but it's just not a terribly good movie either . Some of it is so dull . Expected quite a bit more from Larry Cohen . That being said , Say what you will about Blue Underground released Dvds , but whatever they choose to put out has amazingly good transfers and extras . DVD Extras : Commentary with Larry Cohen & Bill Lustig ; interview with producer ; 30 minutes of shots from the aborted first shoot ; 2 theatrical trailers ( teaser , and under the name of " housewife " ) ; poster and stills galleryEye Candy : Joyce Van Patten gets topless , as does Jeannie Berlin
very ' 70's	This 22 minute short , short of a precursor to the later much better " Rock and Rule " , features two folk singer mice who are going nowhere . The female mouse , Jan , signs a deal with the devil to become a hit rock star . So it's up to Daniel Mouse to save her soul . Made in the late ' 70's this has all the trappings of said decade ( crap music , crap clothing and hair style , awful folk tunes ) This cartoon is featured on the Second disc of the 2-Disk Collector's Edition of " Rock and Rule " , it also comes with a Making of that runs almost as long as the show itself .
Worst W . I . P . film I've ever seen	Yoko Saito , who astute observers will remember from Takashi Mike's " White Collar Worker Kintaro " , stars as the titular Scorpion , who goes to jail after circumstantial evidence convicts her of blowing up her hubby in her car . Of course she's innocent and survives jail long enough to break out and find the real culprits . This had to be the lamest women in prison flick I've ever seen and trust me in my hormonally charged youth I watched those type of films non-stop . Horribly acted , the nudity couldn't even save this one . Steer clear . DVD Extras : Art Gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Terminatrix " , " Weather Woman Returns " , " Sunny gets Blue " , " Beautiful Hunter " , " Tokyo Mafia : Battle for Shinzu " ; and a promo for the 2004 Big Apple Anime Fest Eye Candy : it's a WIP flick , so almost every girl has a moment of nudity , but it's also a jap flick she no bush BOO ! ! HISS ! !
an incoherent mess	By the time the Hellraiser franchise was reaching it's forth film the premise was wearing a bit thin . Dr . Paul Merchant ( Bruce Ramsey ) is a scientist in the future , whom while prisoner regales his captor of the story of how his ancestors ( all played by Ramsey ) had first built the evil Lament Configuration puzzle-box that sets evil upon the world and how his bloodline had subsequent dealing with said box . The film is a awash with lack of continuity in regards to the other films and lack of coherency in this one . Yes , this could be due to a combination of rewrites , massive cuts in the original version of the film , or what have you . But I'm reviewing the film as is , and not what it was or could have been . And as it is now it's a mess . Sure the franchise will go on indefinitely with direct to DVD sequels , but this one was pretty much a death-nail to it's chances of getting a new one released theatrically ever again .
Old stale jokes	No real plot to this one , just a series of short skits acting out some VERY old jokes . I chuckled once or twice in the beginning , much to my chagrin . But even at only 73 minutes this film wears out it's welcome before too long and becomes stale and tedious ( with some nudity sprinkled in here and there to keep you awake ) . Still as bad as this movie is ( and that's pretty putrid ) , it's a comedic gem compared to pretty much ANYthing by Aaron Seltzer & Jason Friedberg ( Date movie , Epic movie , Meet the Spartans ) Also the song is sadly kind of catchy in a sad way . Eye Candy : 11 pair of tits , 3 bushes , 3 asses Code Red DVD Extras : Original trailer for this film ; and trailers for " Beyond the Door " , " Dead Pit " , " the Farmer " , " obsessed Ones " , " Power Play " , " Sole Survivor " , & " Wacky Taxi "
perfect garbage	Truth be told the only reason I even gave the movie a chance is because Bruce Willis was in it , being a big fan of his , I decided to overlook the terribly contrived trailer . Sometimes trailers can be misleading , sadly this is not the case and I was treated ( for lack of a better term ) to a terribly contrived movie about a investigative journalist ( Halle Berry ) who starts looking into a mogul ( Willis ) after her friend dies mysteriously . Awful dialog and sub-par acting ( save for Bruce who at least tries somewhat ) is coupled with an inane story and " twists " that exist for no other logical reason than to merely have twists . Berry proves once again that sees a vastly over-rated Diva . They'll give ANYone an Oscar nowadays .
A lifeless and unfunny Two Stooges	Ignacio ( Jack Black ) is a cook in a Mexican orphanage who , along with a common vagabond , chooses to moonlight as a Luchador in order to win money for said orphanage . He is constantly ridiculed by the monks , the only one to show compassion towards him being the beautiful Sister Encarnacion whom he has a secret crush on . The movie chooses the low-brow path which while not in itself a bad thing when done with originality and / or flair . Sadly this film has neither and simply repeats the same two ' gags ' over and over again with no style . Fans of Napoleon Dynamite or Jack Black might laugh a few ( VERY few ) times , but everyone else would be well advised to avoid this stinker . DVD Extras : Commentary by writer / director Jared Hess , co-writer / producer Mike White and actor Jack Black ; 5 featurettes ; Jack Sings 2 songs ; 3 Deleted scenes ; 4 Promo spots ; 3 Photo galleries ; & trailers for " Flushed Away " , " Barnyard " , " Mission Impossible III " , " An Inconvenient Truth " , and " Over The Hedge " DVD-Rom content : Theatrical website archive ; and a comic book creator
too many twist	Trevor ( Andras Jones from Nightmare on Elm Street 4 and Sorority babes in the Slimeball Bowl-a-Rama ) kills his girlfriend and is sentenced to a stay in the half way house for loons by Dr . Elk ( genre staple Jeffrey Combs ) . But things are not nearly what they seem . I wanted to like this I really did , and to it's merit it did start off rather well , but as it went on it became a casualty of too many twists spoiling the stew . The ending is anti-climatic as well and left me thinking " Is that it ? ? ? " I read that this is a ' thinking persons ' horror film . I'm sorry but that's pretty laughable as anyone with half a brain could follow it . Mindfu @ k movies can be good , when they have a point to them ( ie . Fight Club , the Twin peaks series ) But this isn't one of those . And Seth Green isn't really the best actor in the world to put it diplomatically . DVD Extras : both widescreen and fullscreen versions ; behind the scenes featurette ; and Theatrical trailer Eye Candy : Beth Bates shows everything , Shannon Cleary goes full frontal
Highly derivative but not bad enough to hold in contempt	Steve , a census-taker ( Jeremy Sisto , Six Feet Under and Law & Order ) is sent to Rockwell Falls on an assignment , a small isolated town of 436 who harbor a dark secret which they'd rather not let the outside world know about . Unfortunately , Steve has to spend some time there as his tires have a flat . Instantly he's taken by the charms of the lovely Courtney Lovett , he enjoys his stay until he stumbles on the aforementioned ' dark secret ' It's hard to critique this film as it's moderately well acted and the story is moderately involving enough that I didn't instantly regret watching it . It's just that the ' isolated town with a dark secret ' type film has been done many many times before and there's absolutely nothing new that this film adds to the sub-genre ( aside from a horrendous ending that doesn't jar well with anything else in the film in the least , the movie will bring a strong sense of deja-vu for anyone who's seen any of this type of film ) Kudos to Fred Durst for not completely and utterly stinking the film up , but that's all the accolades that I can give the film .
Dirty Sanchez of a movie	John Travolta is a DEA agent investigating the disappearance of Samuel Jackson and his platoon . What follows is he said / she said / they said that works for a little while , but just degenerates into a convoluted mess . Plus they have to make the film P . C . of course , by adding a petite woman to the gang of gung-ho Army rangers . That was stupid , but I expect as much from Hollyweird . This had the good luck to be McTiernan's movie after he made " Rollerball " so after that piece of excrement ANYthing would look better then it actually is . Columbia Tristar DVD Extras : Commentary by John McTiernan ; ' Basic : A director's design ' featurette ; ' A writer's perspective ' featurette ; Filmographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Tears of the Sun " , " xxx " , " Identity " , " Formula 51 " , " Bad Boys 2 " , and " swat "
Such wasted talent	Nicholas Walker is Paul , the local town Reverand who's married to Martha ( Ally Sheedy ) , but also is a habitual womanizer and decides to fake his own death to run away with his current affair , Veronica ( Dara Tomanovich ) . However in so doing , he gets a bout of amnesia ( hence the name of the film ) . Sally Kirkland is also on hand as a crazy old coot who pines for the good Reverand in a shades of " Misery " type of way . It's sad to see a pretty good cast wasted like this . Not the least bit John Savage in a horridly forgettable role as a shoddy private investigator . In a film billed as a ' black comedy ' , one has to bring BOTH elements into said movie . While this does bring the former in spades , it sadly contains none of the latter . Furthermore you can't emphasize with any of the characters and as thus , have absolutely no vested interest in them . Technically not an all-together bad movie just an extremely forgettable one . Eye Candy : Dara Tomanovich gets topless ; Sally Kirkland also shows some skin Where I saw it : Showtime Showcase
David Spade : Former funny semi-star	David Spade and Fred Wolf's follow up to " Joe Dirt " , about Dickey Roberts , a former child star trying to re-live a childhood that he never lived in the first place for a role in a film , while having it's moments ( moments that are way to far apart ) , ultimately is a failure . I'm more liable to put the blame of that on director Sam ' ALL my movies are godaweful ' Weisman tho , as Spade is a likable enough guy and Wolf seems alright . But when a guy is responsible for " George of the Jungle " , " What's the worst that could Happen ? " and " the Out of Towners " remake you DON'T give him another job , you kick him in the ass and tell him to get the hell out . Also I laughed whenever Danny Bona'Douche ' was on the screen , not because he was funny mind you , but because I remember a story my dad told bout beating the pansy up when he was a kid , and the more stories about him I hear from various other people made me realize that pretty much EVERYone beat him like a red-headed step-child . Those sound like good times . DVD Extras : Commentary by Sam Weisman ; Second commentary by David Spade and Fred Wolf ; Comedy Central's " Reel Comedy " on the movie ; True Hollywood story featurette ; Writing the story featurette ; Music video & the making of said video ; 9 Deled scenes ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Timeline " , " School of Rock " , " the Fighting Temptations " , and " Tomb Raider : Cradle of Life " 3 Easter Eggs : from the main menu highlight ' Nucking futs ' for outtakes ; In the ' set up ' menu highlight the doll for more out-takes ; there's also a way to get even more outtakes but find that yourself
alright if you catch it in the right mood	Drew Barrymore plays a nameless teenage seductress given the nickname of ' Ivy ' who moves in with lonely , sexually confused adopted Sylvie Cooper ( Sara Gilbert of " Roseanne " fame ) and her family . It isn't long before she's seducing Sylvie's father ( Tom Skerritt ) , much to the chagrin of Sylvie . Barrymore is pretty good in this , and it was nice seeing her pre-coke stroke when her face was still symmetrical . Plus the film was competently , if VERY far from expertly by Katt Shea ( only notable otherwise for being topless in few B-movies ) . Cheryl Ladd is woefully underused as the put-upon mother and Sara Gilbert is tad too melodramatic in many of her scenes , but it's an alright movie , if you happen to be in the right mood whenever it plays on cable . Where I saw it : @ Max
Sonya the ice queen	Breast implant winner , Sonya , whom everyone feels is a crazy bitchy ice queen ( an assessment i'm likely to agree with based on this interview ) , comes in to confess her love to Artie , later she's joined in studio by porn star Rhiannon Bray , whom gets spanked . These 2 episodes ( combined and uncensored on Howard TV ) are pretty funny when various people are ragging on Sonya , but not so much during the other parts . Sonya is an excruciating interview . Rhiannon tries to save the episode but she's merely average looking ( for a porn star i mean , she's cute really ) & can't pull it off . Eye Candy : Sonya shows her pre-implant breasts ( in file footage ) & post-implant ( in picture form as she refuses to get topless in studio ) ; Rhiannon gets fully nude
it's only a documentary , it's only a documentary , it's . . .	In this barely thirty minute featurette , it covers the basics of what went into making the low-budget film . The cast , writing , advertisements , how they came up with the title and the advertising campaign are all covered fairly well . OK , granted that Wes Craven didn't come off as much of a pompous little jerk as he usually does , I'll give him that . Most of the actors also don't like to be associated with this film , and who in their right mind could really blame them for that ? I've seen better documentaries , but I've also seen worse . This documentary can be located on the special edition DVD of " The Last House on the Left "
Brittany is hot	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " 1465 Westerly " is a VERY short 2 minute ghost story . I never felt like it was a real full story in anyway and seemed like a movie snippet . As such I couldn't really get into it at all . I WILL tell you one thing though and that is that Brittney O'Bannon looked very hot in the short and it's a shame that we haven't heard more of her in the intervening 2 years . Someone give that hotty a job toot sweet . Sad that's the only good thing I can honestly say about the short , but what you gonna do , you know ? I guess I'm just a natural optimist .
turning the gay up to 11	Yea I know this film ( and films of it's ilk ) are pretty much review-proof and as such it's a tad futile to try to critique the film in any conventional sense . Of course that won't stop me from trying . Johnny , Bam , Steve-O , wee man , and the rest of the Jackass gang are out for another series of unrelated idiotic and insanely retarder stunts . Given that the first movie was done on the cheap , it was destined to turn a profit and as such warrant a sequel ( you have to know part 3 is just around the rancid corner ) . This amps up the stunts . More disgusting , more disturbing , and decidedly more gay . However , cranking it up to 11 doesn't automatically make it better and I found myself enjoying part 1 more on a whole . While watching this one I chuckled a few times , cringed a lot , and was severely bored by some ( prosthetic nude ' granny ' is one of the recurring bits that was beyond lame ) . Still if you were a fan of the TV show , you'll watch this regardless of whatever any one else says , if on the other hand the gay naked wrestling scene in Borat made you wanna vomit , steer clear of this ' film ' at all coasts . Guys acting mentally retarded gets old fast . DVD Extras : Commentary with Johnny Knoxville , Steve-O , Chris Pontius , Ryan Dunn , Wee Man , Preston Lacy , Dave England , Ehren McGhehey , Jeff Tremaine and Dimitry Elyashkevick ; 30 minute ' The Making of Jackass Number Two ' featurette ; 36 additional segments ( 7 of them unrated ) ; 16 minutes of deleted scenes ; 8 minute outtake reel ; Karazy music video ; VMA spots ; photo gallery ; Theatrical trailer and trailers for " Norbit " , " Babel " , " The Last Kiss " , & " Nacho Libre " 1 Easter Egg : Highlight ' Previews ' in the second page of the Special Features menu and press down for an unrated teaser tailer for the film
Proof I'll watch Reed Diamond in just about anything	Reed Diamond plays a man suffering from amnesia who's been in a mental asylum for over a decade after he was found wondering the back roads with blood on his hands . The doctors want to test out an experimental new drug that'll return his lost memories if it works . But when the drugs give him hallucinations of a demon , he chooses to escape instead . While outside he befriends a young boy whose stepfather ( Greg Grunberg ) mistreats his mother , won't let her near the darkroom in his basement & acts suspicious in general . While the general ' mystery ' of the film is a tad easy to identify way before it's revealed , I found Mr . Diamond's acting to be enthralling enough to keep my attention throughout . ( In the interest of full disclosure , I've been a huge fan of his since Homicide and his brief , but extremely pivotal , role in The Shield up through Journeyman & Dollhouse ) Not a great film nor a good one , but serviceable enough . Although I did like it better than the previous films that I've seen from Director / writer Michael Hurst ( Room 6 , Pumkinhead 4 , Mansquito ) Eye Candy : one fleeting pair of boobs in a hallucination
hopelessly derivative plot , but done well enough	Kristel ( Victoria Koblenko ) after a night out partying is on her way home with her father . He's angry that she keeps secrets from him and is not paying attention to the road which results in a horrible car crash which in turn takes her father's life . After the funeral Kristel goes on a tour of a mineshaft ( Kristel's dad was working on a book about a serial killer , the mine being where said killer died ) . Long story short , the people taking the tour get trapped , they whip out a Ouija board for no reason whatsoever and release the body-hopping spirit of the killer . Yes , you've seen this scenario play out a thousand times or more . The film is hopelessly derivative and lacks any form of originality whatsoever . But what it lacks for them , at least it does it reasonably well . This is one of the films that when it's over , you won't think twice about . Victoria Koblenko is pretty hot though and it was a shame the makers of the film didn't put her ' talents ' on display , if you catch my drift . My grade : Tartan's DVD Extras ( R1 ) : Making of documentary ; outtake reel ; theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " H6 " , " Hillside Strangler " , " Sheitan " , " Bloody Reunion " , and " Perth "
the longest Nokia ad I've ever sat through	Ryan , a hopeless loser ( Chris Evans of Not another Teen Movie and Fantastic Four ) , gets a call from a kidnapped wife and mother who is kidnapped and needs his help to get her , her kid and husband out alive in the ' logic be damned ' popcorn action movie . None of the actors come close to acting as good as the true star of the film : Nokia . And the amount of logic that one needs to suspend to get enjoyment out of the film is so staggering that the movie practically demands that the viewer be an intellectual mongoloid even to get SOME semblance of fun out of this travesty . The bad guys are like some fifth-grade " Shield " rejects and some of the acting is laughably bad ( Kim Bassinger channeling the equally awful " the Long Kiss Goodnight " and Adam Gordon as her son can't act in the least , come to mind ) I truly feel bad for the only superb actors in the bunch , as William H . Macy and Jason Statham are pretty much wasted here . ( in all fairness Statham does fare a bit better than the better Macy ) . It's hard to fault Larry Cohen as he's someone I respect a lot , maybe the fault lies more in the execution than anything . But regardless this is a movie to miss . Where I saw it : the Movie Channel on Demand
well the first half was enjoyable . . . . .	80's metal band Whitesnake's sultry siren Tawny Kitaen is extremely lucky in some ways ( ie . she dated OJ Simpson and lived to tell the tale ) . but decidedly unlucky in deciding this as her first feature film . Kitaen plays the titular role of Gwendoline who , with some help , is trying to find her father and a rare butterfly . While the first half of this film is so bad , it's good in a campy culty way , humorously enough the second half , when they actually find the girl tribe of the Yik Yak is when it takes a nosedive and becomes tedious . You'd think it would only get better by injecting a truckload of topless women , but you'd be wrong . As it's definitely not . But as I said up to around that point the movie is pretty damn enjoyable . And as bad as the second part of this film got ( and trust me it gets pretty awful ) . I'd STILL watch it a million times more than that " Avacado Women in the Jungle of Death " crap fest . Tawny's next film , Bachelor Party , however , was and still is a bonifide classic no matter how you slice it ( not really because of her , mind you ) DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Just Jaeckin ; Interview with Jaeckin ; Audio interview with comic creator John Willie ; Tawny Kitean photo-spread for Lui Magazine ; and both US & international theatrical trailers
Miami Placcid	The very lovely Amber Lynn , Barbara Dare , Candie Evens , Sheri St . Claire and Michelle Verran ( pre - Sorority House Massacre 2 , in her film debut ) star in this parody of a popular cop show which with a name like " Miami Spice " , it's obvious that it's a parody of " Starsky and Hutch " Don't quote me on that though LOL . Anyways , it's about 3 undercover police officers who want to capture a coke drug-lord , apparently by blowing all the bad guys away . One would think with all the talent on display , they could've made a much better porno , but one would think wrong . Followed by a sequel ingenuously named " Miami Spice 2 " My Porn
metaphysical porn	Chris ( Richard Pacheco ) seeks out Madame Lau ( A decidedly NON-Asian , pre - " The Grafenberg Spot " Annette Haven ) for guidance in all things sexual . Lau speaks some psychoanalytical mumbo-jumbo , after cleaning Chris's pipes , naturally . And introduces him to his idea of a ' dream girl ' , who buffs his baloney , naturally . But she won't speak . For some reason Chris actually cares about that . Silly man . Then he goes on and on about " Behind the Green Door " ( which having seen , I can tell you it's not worth going on and on about ) When he said that he wished to be in Marilyn Chambers place , I had a look of sheer horror on my face because I thought he wanted to jerk off two guys as a black man had his way with him . And was relieved to find out it was with women . Anyways it goes on and on like this with various illusions created by this non-Asian sorceress . Not the best porn in the world BY FAR . My Porn
good up to the ending soured me off the film	Kate , a business woman in her mid-twenties , is having nightmares of her closest friends winding up dead that seem to become reality in this tense , slightly unnerving little film dealing with dopplegangers . Made on a shoe-string budget over a couple of mere months this sci-fi tinged thriller is pretty damn good ( for the most part , the ending is atrocious and ' end's nothing ) . It was a breath of fresh air to see a film that doesn't automatically ( and wrongly ) equate mindless gore with big scares . Kudos to the film makers for not going that route . And at merely 75 minutes ( including credit rolls ) , this film is lean in a good way & rarely drags . But , I must say again , the ending pretty much soured the movie for me . DVD Extras : A 52 minute Making-of ( that's almost as long as the film itself ) ; a trailer for this film ; and Trailers for " Bangkok Dangerous " ( the US remake ) , " the Spirit " , " Restraint " , " Kitchen Privileges " , " Raising Jeffrey Dahmer " , & " Bram Stroker's Dracula's Guest "
strictly by the book	Dolph Ludgren is Frank Gannon , a cop who was in the D . A . U ( Direct Action Unit ) a special unit of elite cops focusing on gang violence , drugs , and prostitution . Billie Ross ( Polly Shannon ) is a female detective trainee who Gannon is assigned to show the ropes to . Other cops are after him after he goes to the feds and rolls over on his fellow boys in blue . One of my friends in the UK sent this to me saying that he liked it and he think I would too . Plus he knows I like seeing movies before they're released in the states . What I saw was a fairly standard cop action drama flick . But a better than average as far as Dolph Lungren is concerned . Not a surprise that it went straight to video in the least , as it adds nothing new to the genre at all and the whole film is strictly routine .
good for a DTV horror film , but still mediocre	This prequel to the Kate Beckinsale-starring Vacancy , this film doesn't break any new ground & pretty much plays as a retread of the first film ( minus the nifty underground sequences ) . Agnes Bruckner stars as Jessica , one of a trio of young adults who have the bad sense of checking into a motel whose owners are complacent in snuff films made at the detriment to the motel's clientèle . As far as Direct to DVD horror flicks are concerned , this one is a cut above the others . But that's merely by default ( hell the Asylum films themselves skew the bell curve to crap ) , the film taken on it's own merits is only mediocre and I only very mildly recommend it . Sony DVD Extras : Commentary with Drector Eric Bross , producer Hal Lieberman , executive producer Brian Paschal , actress Agnes Bruckner & actor David Moscow ; 2 featurettes ( Behind the scenes & Constrcting the Meadow View Inn ) ; 3 deleted scenes ( running around 4 minutes in all , but not adding anything of substance ) ; a now sadly prerequisite ad for blu-ray ; an ad for fear-net . com ; and trailers for Boogeyman 3 , Balls Out , the Grudge 3 , the Devil's Chair , The Lodger , Anaconda : trail of Blood , Red Sands , Screamers : the Huntng , Deep Winter , Against the Dark , Vacancy , Zombie Strippers , Moscow Zero , Termination Point , Tortured , the Tattoist , Resident Evil : Degeneration , Qarantine , & Breaking Bad : the first season
It isn't all the Rage	A crazed Russian doctor ( Andrew Divoff of Wishmaster ) experiments with a deadly new virus that turns people ( and birds ) into bloodthirsty mutants gets in hot water when the virus gets loose and starts infecting those in the surrounding area creating havoc for a group of teens who were out partying at an outdoor Mushroomhead concert in the nearby woods . Woodenly acted from an awfully stupefying script . The movie quite knowingly seems to be a homage to ' 80's cult films ( mainly Evil Dead & Re-animator ) , but lacks the wit to pull it off as a good movie itself , despite the presence of otherwise talented Divoff , Erin Brown , and Reggie Bannister ( the latter in more or less a cameo ) . May be perfectly acceptable fodder for 2 : 15 AM after a night of bar-hopping , but watching it unintoxicated is not really recommended . Eye Candy : Angela Gasparec gets topless DVD Extras : Commentary by Director / Writer Robert Kurtzman and writer John Bisson ; an 80-minute Making-of featurette ; photo stills gallery ; 2 music videos by Mushroomhead ; and Trailers for " Trailer Park Boys : the movie " & " Big bad Wolf "
care for a game of craps ?	Policewoman Anna Mari ( Stefania Rocca ) who has to watch a woman die via web-cam after her superior won't let her play on-line video poker with the killer . Enter stereotypical Irish detective , John Breenan ( Liam Cunningham from " Dog Soldier " ) , who of course drinks heavily and sings ' Danny Boy ' . It's up to these two to figure out who the murderer is before too many bodies pile up . What we have here would be an perfectly passable movie IF anyone else had directed it , but for an Argento helmed flick this one is severely lacking in both Dario's trademark visual flair and a strange lacking of gore . A HUGE disappointment after seeing " Sleepless "
tedious days in Paris	Joey , a writer , and Carl , a Frenchman , are two bohemians living in Paris spending all their time looking for more poon . All the women are slut and / or mentally unstable and stupid only good for what's between their legs in their world view and the film itself seems to suggest that the idea is true . Based loosely on the Henry Miller book which was in turn based loosely on his actual life . Made and seems to be only for the pretentious and unbearable Art-house crowd . ( hey even THEY have base interests . . I think ) For the rest of you people ( Ie . Normal ) just go rent some real porn instead , you'd get more out it . And likely more of a plot to boot . I usually like the movies that Blue Underground choose to release , but this one is a vast disappointment . It is however the most anti-feminist movie you'll likely ever see . I guess that deserve something . DVD Extras : " Dirty Movies , Dirty books " featurette ; an 11 minute piece on the music , Poster and stills gallery ; Bios of Henrey Miller and Jens Thorsen DVD-ROM : Court Documents 2 Easter Eggs : highlight the word EXTRA in the extras menu , and the word CLICHY in the talent bios menu for 2 more clips of Barney Rosset interviewed Eye Candy : Ulla Koppel . Suzanne Krage , Lisbet Lundquist , and Louise White all so much flesh
too much like a made for Lifetime movie for my tastes	An agoraphobic woman , a victim of a violent rape , suspects that her new male roommate who loves to cook is up to something a tad more sinister ( But not before getting romantically involved with him ) . This film is 1 part thriller to 2 parts romantic drama , not really that good of a ratio in my eyes , but the film is well-acted enough ( even if it borders on the melodramatic at times ) and there's some tension to be had . Perhaps not a great movie , maybe nor a good one , but it's perfectly suited for a rainy weeknight with nothing better to do . It plays too much like a made for Lifetime movie for my tastes though .
just fluff , nothing more , nothing less	This 22 minute promo piece was originally aired on Fox network a tad before the film was released . It can be found as an extra on the single-disk version of the " X-men " DVD . Masquerading as a news report on the Senate Hearings on the Mutant Registrating Act that Senator Robert Kelly is sponsoring that if mutants WERE in fact real , I'd have to trouble in the least voting for . Of course this fluff piece coming from Liberal Hollywood , all the Republicans are hateful idiots and the Democrats calm and logical , but I digress . This also features clips from the then upcoming movie and interviews with the main cast members . Just don't expect anything more than a fluff piece .
Warmed-over gangster film	Malcolm McDowell narrates his own rise as a gangster in this lukewarm crime drama . Gangster films are a dime a dozen , so you need something unique to say or at least great acting . This film fails on the first part , and passes barely only thanks to Paul Bennany and David Thewlis on the second . It also goes on for too long and could've used a better editor at the helm . It's not that " Gangster No . 1 " is a particularly bad film , as it's not . The acting by the two aforementioned actors and the cinematography make it watchable , but it's just not one that you can't miss if you're a fan of the genre . DVD Extras : Commentary with director Paul McGuinan ; one Deleted scene ; Featurette ; TV Spot ; and Theatrical Trailer ANTI-eye Candy : Some bloke's wang
Ingenious in that the makers want us to relate to Patrick , buy trying to lull the audience into a coma	Richard Franklin directs this sci-fi thriller ( I use the word thriller VERY lightly ) about a parent murdering scumbag who's in a coma but has ESP , from a story by fairly regular collaborator Everett De Roche . I have no clue , how this movie landed the director the job of being at the helm of " Psycho 2 " , as the film as boring to the point of being tedious . At some point it feels like the movie MIGHT get better , alas it never happens . It's very telling when Robert Thompson ( the actor who plays the comatose Patrick ) gives the best performance of the entire film . My Grade : DVD Extras : Uncut version ; Commentary with Richard Franklin ; Both Austrailian and American trailers ; ans an easy to find Easter Egg that gives you a look at the soundtrack art that Goblin didEye Candy : Carole-Ann Aylett as Patrick's mum bares her ya-ya's briefly , Helen Hemingway goes topless as well . For the women there's brief sausage
As lame as the brother of the main character's legs	Jo Hauser ( Barnaby Metschurat ) , a new intern at a notable German hospital , suspects something's amiss with Proffesor Muller-LaRousse ( Herbert Knaup ) , who is studying the use of bionic muscles in order to make superior humans , but not before getting addicted to the performance enhancing drugs . Well acted , but ultimately uninvolved , unexciting film that is way too generic for it's own good . Franka Potente has a very small cameo to drive up video sales . My Grade : DVD Extras : Subtitled commentary by Director Stefan Ruzowitzky and actor Barnaby Metschurat ; a 16 minute & 47 second Making of ; 5 Deleted scenes with optional audio and video commentary ; 3 Screen test comparison ; Fimographies ; Photo gallery ; the poster artwork ; an unsubtitled German Theatrical trailer and Trailers for " Anatomie " , " Men of Respect " , " Big Girls don't cry " , " Identity " , & " Darkness Falls "
Chronicles of Narcissism	Jennifer Cassi ( Gina Philips from " Dead and Breakfast " ) returns back to the house she grew up in which she recently inherited from her deceased sister , unbeknownst to her grandmother ( Fay Dunaway ) who's still living in it . Jennifer decides to sell it as she's in dire need of the money much to Granny's chagrin . She also begins to have troublesome recurring nightmares of a mysterious raven . There was really no one to relate to in this film . Jennifer seemed cold , distant , unsentimental , and narcissistic , whereas the grandmother seemed spiteful , sad , and also narcissistic . The film is good and well-made , but with no one to empathize with I found it hard to care about what happened to them .
the late great Darren McGavin is the ONLY reason to watch this sub-par episode	Margot Kidder is Jane Reynolds , a stone cold bitch of a nurse at a retirement home . When she's not robbing the clientèle , she's having an affair with Johnny ( Stephen McHattie ) who's also her cohort in crime . However one night when a mysterious old man shows up played by the late great Darren McGavin , to give the two hideous people their just desserts . If not for McGavin ( whom isn't given much to do really ) , this episode would be extremely lackluster . As it is , it's still pretty bad , but it's always a pleasure to watch Darren in anything he does even if it's a really bad episode of a cultish TV show . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker ( why the couldn't release season sets like Canada is beyond me ) . It also has optional commentary by Director Phillip Noyce & Lewis Chesler ( who produced 2 episodes of the series , but neither one of them is this , so I don't really get his inclusion )
fairly generic , yet still watchable	Alex Nolan , a first time director is trying to get the most out of a young inexperienced actress , Leda Bedell ( LaGena Hart ) , when he's under pressure to get the last scene of a horror film just right . Meanwhile , she's apparently being terrorized by the same madman who's in the movie she's making . The abundant horror clichés as well as Hart's wooden acting make this not as good as it could have been , but thanks to Verhoeven's direction it still remains watchable , if generic . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker ( why they couldn't just release season sets like Canada is beyond me ) . It also has optional commentary by Director Paul Verhoeven wherein he chooses to tell a personal story about himself instead of the actual show on display , thus making it much more entertaining if you're a fan of the director . Eye Candy : LaGena Hart gets topless
Changing DVDs	An attorney , Gavin , ( Ben Affleck ) in a rush to get to a court appointment gets into a collision with a black insurance salesman , Doyle , ( Samuel Jackson ) who's on his way to a custody hearing for his kids . The accident makes Doyle miss his hearing and Gavin lose important papers that are now in Doyle's possession . Now Gavin has to get the papers from a highly irritated and hostile Doyle . This film is a exercise in missed opportunities and petty moralizing . In retrospect perhaps Roger Michell wasn't the best Director for the job , there wasn't anything in his weak cannon of films that would tip anyone off that he was capable of directing a straight thriller . Not the one-sided " Titanic Town " , nor the gay gabfest " My Night with Reg " . Long and short of this film , good ( Only for the fact that almost anything that Sam Jackson is in is watchable ) but WAY too much moralizing . Furthermore , the fact that the Twin Towers were digitally erased when it played theatrically , does NOT win the film any points from me DVD Extras : Commentary by director Roger Michell ; 2 Featurettes ( The Making of Changing Lanes , and The Writer's Perspective ) ; 2 Deleted scenes ; an extended scene ( confessional ) ; and Theatrical Trailer
goes on too long , pretty fluffy	A little bit on the fluffy side , this featurette is somewhat enjoyable , despite that . It features interviews with a lot of the cast , the Director Milos Forman , Kaufman's one time girlfriend , Lynne Margulies ( who is a million times better looking than Courtney Love ever was or ever will be ) , the Producer , co-producer , any a few others . There's some good insights to be had primarily told by Jim Carrey . Even at only 20 minutes , this still feels a bit on the long side and has too many clips of the movie itself , Plus all the stuff with Courtney Love could have been tossed out . But as far as documentaries go it's not totally horrible .
more cute than humorous	Another musical short that is more cute than humorous is this short about some swinging cats singing in music class . One cat just doesn't get it and is ridiculed unmercifully because of it . Of course he gets it together by the end , but it still made me feel sorry for him when he lacked rhythm . This short wasn't as good as " I Love to Singa " ( which was over praised to begin with ) But it's cute enough to at least watch one time , perhaps even twice ( but not in a row ) and the tunes doesn't seem to make one openly cringe . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
prance and go giggle	An ex-con who works ( and lives , thanks to a stupid owner ) in a furniture store . When a group of hormonal teens decide to party in said furniture store after hours , ( one of them is the son of the aforementioned stupid owner and has a set of spare keys ) they're in for trouble when the homicidal transvestite ex-con lover of the ex-con living there comes calling to strike up the Brokeback relationship , in this horribly dated late ' 80's slasher horror film . This being a typical by-the-numbers slasher flick that doesn't really deviate from the clichéd path in the least , I was surprised that it was still moderately entertaining to an extant , even if the guys were all wussies . Eye Candy : Donna Baltron , Bunky Jones , and Annette Sinclair all get topless
geeks , nerd , and'or dweebs will love it	Four geeky losers residing in a college dorm room play a D & D-type game and use their imagination . This is pretty much a niche film , just like atheists didn't get as much out of " the Passion of The Christ " , Heterosexuals males didn't get as much out of " Moulin Rouge " , and thinking people didn't get as much from " American Beauty " , no-role playing game people won't find this as hilarious and great as the geeks , dweebs , and nerds that this film is aimed for . Will geeks like it ? I don't know , probably . I'm not a nerd so I really don't know as I can't really get into their mindset . For everyone else , just rent " Trekkies " , or better yet do something D & D players only dream of having the chance of doing , spending time with someone of the opposite sex . Well it's not even an hour and the ending was OK , so thats good i guess .
an alright , if unmemorable , watch	Melissa's sixteenth birthday is right around the corner and she's just discovering her sexuality with boys . But it turns out that all the guys that she spends time with all wind up murdered in this generic ' 80's slasher film . It's up to the local town sheriff Dan Burke ( Bo Hopkins , The Wild Bunch ) and his annoying mystery-loving goody two-shoes daughter , Marci ( Dana Kimmell , Friday the 13th part 3 ) , to get to the bottom of these killings . This film focuses more on the mystery and melodrama aspects of the movie and less on the killings themselves and thus is able to differentiate itself from a lot of it's ' 80's Slasher brethren . It doesn't hurt that Alesia has a great body ( I feel the need to stress the obvious with stating that the actress is over 18 and thus convey that i'm not overly perverted ) . On the downside , the movie is hampered with a few plot points that are underdeveloped and unnecessary , a grating theme some that is used a bit too often , and an ending that is a tad anti-climatic . But the good outweigh the bad ( barely ) . Give this a rent , but I wouldn't buy it . Eye Candy : Aleisa Shirley shows her tits , bush and ass Code Red DVD Extras : An intro by star Aleisa Shirley and Director of Intruder , Scott Spiegel ; Both Director's cut & theatrical version of the film ; Audio conversation with star Shirley and Director Jim Sotos ; interview with Shirley , Sotos & Bo Hopkins ; still gallery ; theatrical trailer for this film ; and trailers for Nightmare , Stunt Rock , Rituals , & Balalaika Conspiracy
If this film was a man who had one evil eye and one lazy googly eye , I'd still laugh at him	Dario Argento and George Romero team up , each telling a tale supposedly based on works of Edgar Poe . Romero's segment further solifies my notion that you can classify whatever George makes into two distinct parts : His Dead trilogy which is great and Everything else which turns out lacking . Blasphemy you say ? Well bullocks to you , if you can prove me wrong please do so . Anyway , in this first segment that plays out like a longer boring version of ' Tales From the Crypt " , Jessica Valdemar ( Adrienne Barbeau , of " Swamp Thing " and " Escape From New York " fame , and NO I will NOT even mention " Maude " it was a horrid horrid show ) wants to off her dying sugar daddy with the help of her hypnotizing Docter lover only to have the old coot come back . Even the almost good last few minutes of it can't save it . Luckily Dario Argento's segment while not without it's flaws ( such as a story thats WAY strecthed out ) , can't help but seem better . In that one Harvey Keitel beats the sh # out of an angry cat and the feline's owner . But it's a bit more then that . ( the high Argento grade cancels out the low Romero grade ) Blue Underground DVD extras : Disc 1 : talent bios ; Theatrical trailer ; and a poster / stills gallery Disk 2 : ' Two Master's Eyes ' documentary ; ' Savini's EFX ' ; " At home with Tom Savini " ; and a five minute interview with Adrienne BarbeauDVD Easter Egg : On disk 2 press up until " Extras " is highlighted to get an interview with George Romero's wife about her bit part as the nurse in his segment
Doesn't make a dent , much less a Shatter	Stuart Whitman ( Tender Flesh , Eaten Alive , the " Superboy " TV show ) is Shatter , an international hit-man who goes into hiding when he carries out the assignment of killing an African general that he thought was given to him by someone that it wasn't . Now everyone is gunning for him and he just wants the money owed to him . I usually dig Hammer films quite a bit , however this is one I just couldn't get into . It's just way to slow and badly acted to keep my interest . It felt like it would have been made into a TV show if it did better than it wound up doing . No big loss either way , in my opinion . Eye Candy : Some random Chinese girl shows T & A DVD Extras : Commentary by Ousted director Monte Hellman & Actor Stuart WhitmanThe World of Hammer episode : " Chiller " ; 2 TV spots ; and Theatrical Trailer
at least better then Rollerball , just not as funny	Vince Vaughn leads a group of assorted misfits into a dodgeball tournament to save his gym from being bought by Ben Stiller's gym franchise . Well leads is to strong a word , as Vince just seems to go with the flow throughout the film . Are we that needy for good comedies that we elevate a below-average one into the status of ' mordern day classic ' ? ? Apparently so as many of the people I know sung it's high praises when this came out . The truth is , this is nowhere near as funny as either " Old School " OR " Bad Santa " and the only laughs to be had come from not Stiller nor Vaughn , but from Rip Torn who steals every single scene he has in the movie as wheelchair-bound Patrick O'houlihan . Without him " Dodgeball " would have been out in the preliminaries . DVD Extras : Commentary with Rawson Thurber , Ben Stiller , and Vince Vaughn ; 7 deleted scenes ; Training for Dodgeball featurette ; Anatomy of a hit featurette ; Justin Long : A study in ham and chess featurette ; go for the gold featurette ; gag reel ; 2 theatrical trailers ; Trailers for season 1 of " Arrested Development " and " the Ringer
starts off OK , but goes steadily downhill	After a professional photographer , Chance , sees his wife die in a freak ferris wheel accident , he becomes a tad morbid and overly defensive . So holding his former best friend wrongly responsible , he puts a bizarre plan of revenge into motion . Coming off as a black and reversed version of " Fatal Attraction " , I really wanted to like this film and the plot summery that Comcast gave in on Starz on Demand sounded intriguing so I gave it a chance , however I'm sad to say that the film starts off with some promise , but degenerates into mediocrity as the film wears on . None of the major characters came off to me as being particularly believable , and Blair Underwood has done so MUCH better in the past and sadly he can't save this by-the-books psychological drama .
the most predictable twist since Chubby Checker's hit remake	When a recently widowed father ( De Niro ) and his daughter ( Dakota Fanning ) move to upstate New York , the daughter soon makes an imaginary friend by the name of Charlie to compensate for her lack of real ones . Which is all well and good until strange things start to happen . Then it's up to De Niro and his daughter's therapist ( a very underused Famke Jannsen ) to figure out what's happening . While still eons better than Director John Polson's last film , the atrocious " Swimfan " due to the vastly higher caliber of acting involved in this one ( yea the acting is kinda weak especially towards the end , but I mean comparatively ) , the film ultimately flounders due to a unoriginal ' mystery ' that anyone with half a brain can figure out pretty early into the movie . Despite the numerous red herrings thrown at us . Where I saw it : Cinemax on Demand
it's the pits . . . OK I got nothing	Twenty years after an insane sadistic doctor is shot dead and walled into the basement , a young amnesiac ( Stuntwoman Cheryl Lawson ) is admitted to the same nut house . When an earthquake frees the doctor from his prison , he resumes his devious work . I fully knew what I was getting into when I saw that Brett Leonard ( who has done " the Lawnmower Man " , " Hideaway " , and " Man-thing " ) was responsible for this . And for the most part I was right , but then something strange happened in the last 30 minutes , I actually saw an inkling of . . . competence ( shock horror ) Of course that didn't last long and all it left me with was the feeling that I'd rather be watching " Dr . Giggles " , no I take that back NO ONE should have to sit through THAT ' movie ' again . Eye Candy : Cheryl Lawson gets the shirt shot off her back My Grade :
WAY too long for the subject matter	One redneck has plans for his huge cock ( rooster that is ) in this very episodic film that really lacks any sort of plot whatsoever . The film has it's moments , but is VERY long winded for a film of it's type ( I mean almost two and a half hours ? ? ? What the hell man ? ) And Come on really ? Are there any truly good movies with the word " Redneck " in the title ? Nope I didn't think so either . It's not that well edited either . For the VERY indiscriminating viewer this film MAY be worth if . . . provided you're drunk enough and have a few friends over to make fun of it with . But really the running time is BAD . My Grade : DVD Extras : Director & cast commentary ; a 6 minute and 30 second " Guide to low budget film making " that is worthless ; and a Behind the scenes segment ( 26 minutes )
Target missed on account of budget	In this low-budget ' 50's sci-fi movie , a young woman ( Kathleen Crowley ) awakens only to find herself being an apparently lone survivor of some event and everyone has disappeared , eventually she runs into a few more people . They find out that the place has been evacuated on account of an invasion of robots from another planet . The movie is fairly decent , until said robots ( or in this case , robot , as thats all the budget allowed for ) shows up , then it loses all sense of forward momentum that the film had going for it . DVD Extras : Commentary by Producer Herman Cohen ; 20-minute video tribute to Mr . Cohen ; Biographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Horrors of the Black Museum " and " The Headless Ghost "
Scotty doesn't know . . . how lackluster this film is	When Scotty's German pen-pal confesses her feelings for him via e-mail , he gets freaked out thinking it's another dude . When he realizes he is in fact a she , he takes his friends on a trip through Europe to find her . Supposedly madcap hyjinks ensue , but the hit to miss ratio with the jokes seems to err on the side of miss . Some funny gags , but not enough to warrant repeat viewings . Add WAY too much penis and male ass shots and this one fails to be as funny as either " Road Trip " or " Old School " Two of the films the DVD box art name drops . Michelle Trachtenberg was the worst part of the " Buffy " TV show and she fares a bit better here but not by much . DVD Extras : Filmmaker's Commentary ; ' Party Along ' commentary ; a 5-minute Gag reel ; 13 Deleted scenes with optional commentary ( the Hapi Djus one features more nudity ) ; Alternate Ending with optional commentary ; Nude scene index ; Unrated scene index ; Nude beach exposed ( WAY too much naked guy ass and penis , i'll NEVER watch that extra again EVER ) ; how to pick a director ; Bootleg ; ' Scotty Doesn't Know ' music video and sing-along ; Ad for soundtrack ; Script ; photo gallery ; production notes ; cast and crew Bios ; and Trailers for " Anchorman " , " Along came Polly " , " Envy " , " Pitch Black " 1 Easter Egg : go to the Production Notes and highlight the no camera icon for some behind the scene pics Eye Candy : Tereza Brettschweiderova , Jessica Bohrs , Edita Deveroux ; Molly Shade , Kristyna Simova , and Petra Tormankova all only get topless
Stick to the Johnny Wadd films	Mr . Frosty Knight , ( not so ) private dick , awakens in the hospital face all bandaged up and suffering from a case of amnesia . He slowly remembers what happened as he lays in the hospital bed . Turns out he was tasked with finding the missing brother of a comely young lass . The story itself is quite bland and the premise was done much better by John Holmes in his ' Johnny Wadd ' films , however any film with Jennifer Welles is not completely without merit . Although , ultimately the film's a disappointment . The Goods : 6 sex scenes ( 5 M / F , 1 M / F / M / F / F orgy )
Estrogen runs rampant	Two sisters , Grace and Violet ( Sienna Guillory and Alicia Silverstone respectively ) who are fairly reclusive take in a drunken thieving sort ( Joe Anderson ) to stay with them awhile . Unbeknownst to him , they have plans for him , plans that might unravel when it seems Violet may be getting closer to him , much to Grace's chagrin . This is a fairly well-acted ( for the first half at least until Sienna starts to madly overact ) women's Lifetime-esquire melodrama under the guise of a thriller . A tad too estrogen driven for most , yet solid enough . Nothing I'd personally watch again though . Eye Candy : Sienna Guillory gets topless
Ironside is the only reason to watch	A homicidal misogynist , Colt Hawker ( Sam Fisher himself , Michael Ironside ) doesn't like what Television journalist , Deborah Ballin has to say about her defense of a battered woman who murdered her husband . He follows her home to kill her but his hard work only lands her in the hospital . Naturally when Colt finds out his job hasn't been finished he goes to the hospital to terrorize her more , killing anyone that gets in his way . In these type of films , the movie only works if the villain is good enough , thankfully the horrifying subdued performance of the great Ironside makes this slasher flick rise above the more mediocre ones . Or rather it would have , as on the flip side of that , he's pretty much the only reason to watch this film and it suffers whenever he's not on the screen . All the others are capable enough , they just seem to be going through the motions . Lee Grant in particular is insufferable as Deborah and I found myself actually rooting for her character to die . She brings down what could'be been a perfectly good slasher film .
Point Break on wheels	Bian O'Conner ( Paul Walker ) is an undercover cop who infiltrates a street gang that stages illegal street races in order to find out who's stealing expensive electronic equipment . He befriends the leader of said gang , Domenic Toretto ( Vin Diesel ) and finds himself falling for Dom's younger sister , Mia . The racing aspect of the film is pretty thrilling granted , but the story aspect of the film is way too derivative of 1991's " Point Break " , and this film can't help but suffers greatly from the comparison . Original Out of Print edition ( FAR superior to the ' Tricked out ' Special Edition ) DVD Extras : Commentary by Rob Cohen ; 18 minute Making of Featurette ; The article that inspired the movie ; 8 deleted scenes with optional director's commentary ; 8 multiple camera angles , plus the final edit for a stunt sequence ; Movie magic Interactive Special Effects featurette ; 4 and a half minute Featurette on Editing For The MPAA ; Visual Effects Montage ; 2 Storyboard Comparisons ; 3 Music Videos ( ' Furious ' by Ja Rule , ' POV City Anthem ' { Edited ] by Caddillac Tah , and ' Click Click Boom ' by Salivah ) ; Soundtrack spot ; a jump to the music menu ; Production notes ; cast & filmmaker bios ; Theatrical Trailer ; and promo spots for Universal Theme Parks & an Activision racing game 2 Easter Egg : There's a hidden steering wheel icon to the right of the Stunt sequence link on the main menu , click it for additional multiple angles ; A hidden steering wheel can also be found on page one of the ' Racer X Article ' DVD Rom : Wallpaper ; Screensaver ; Jukebox ; mini-game ; and an Activison Racing game demo
not that good , but still better than the movie it's about	This 8 minute interview with Dardano Sacchetti on his writing of " Manhattan Baby " can be found on the Anchor Bay DVD release of the aforementioned movie . He talks about his attempts to get away from the classical themes of horror , as well as , his love / hate relationship with Producer Fabrizio De Angelis , his fondness of Lucio Fulci , the lack of budget when it was decided by the producers to cut three quarters of it , the unwanted addition of the film's prologue , the unwanted addition of the exorcism scene to make the unwanted prologue make sense , and other things . I din't really like the interview for some reason , yet it's still better than the movie itself .
it's hard to mess up dragon movies , but this one excels at that	A young kid finds and awakens a dragon who turns the world into disarray , cut to the future , now a grown up kid ( Christan Bale ) is protecting his community from dragon attacks when an American shows up with plans to defeat the beasts . This film could've been good , but that all went out the window when Director Rob Bowman took the helm , the man who gave as travesties like " Airbourne " and " Elektra " , but those are tales for a different day , my friend . He also helmed the " X-files " movie , but that's a franchise that at that time was VERY hard to mess up . As it turned out , this film is fluff , not even entertaining fluff . I was disappointed in Bale and the film as a whole . DVD Extras : 3 Featurettes ( Breathing Life into Terror , If You can't take the heat , and Conversations with Rob Bowman ) ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " The Count of Monte Cristo " , and " Bad Company " ; Video Game trailers for " Reign of Fire " and " Kingdom Hearts "
hilariously inept	This warped Frankenstein variation is so atrociously bad that it's hilariously great . . . to a point . Udo Keir is simply amazing as the mad necrophiliac incestuous doctor that hopes to create a new master race . The ridiculous dialog he delivers is howlingly funny . Joe Dallesandro proves once again that apparently he know what guys to go down on to continue getting jobs . He doesn't even bother with an accent in the least . And his acting ? Fuggeddaboutit . . The film loses quite a bit of steam towards the end and could have used some trimming . Also I believe some of the dubbed lines were removed in this DVD version , most notable in the " kiss him ' " scene , which I seem to remember being answered by the servant " ' It's not working " losing this repeated statement lessens the comical effect of the scene exponentially . Eye Candy : Dalila Di Lazzaro bares all ; Imelde Marani , and Fiorella Masselli show breast ; Monique van Vooren and Rosita Torosh show tits & bush Image DVD Extras : Commentary by writer / director Paul Morrissey , actor Udo Kier , and film historian Maurice Yacowar ( the same one as the Criterion track ) ; Screen tests commentary ; and Photo gallery commentary
proof that a film doesn't have to be romantic to be a chick flick	Gary ( Vince Vaughn ) and Brooke ( Jennifer Aniston ) have a typical relationship argument which spirals out of control causing the Break-up the title refers to . This film might have been on to something if the leads had that special chemistry . Vaughn and Anniston quite obviously do not . How can the viewer relate to this scenario on a emotional level , if one can't believe they were in love in the first place . As a consequence the crux of the film just all falls apart . There are some laughs to be hard at the start of the film , but this is more an uncharismatic chick-flick drama more than anything else . While the film is reasonably acted , and competently directed , there's no clear reason to see this film ( Jennifer Anistons exposed rear not withstanding )
why don't the cops just carry water guns ?	In the future of 1991 , alien slaves are Newcomers to Earth . One of the filthy potato head slags kills Detective Syke's partner , he is then forced to partner with another slag , Sam Franscisco ( Mandy Patinkin , who never really found his way into much later with the great " Dead Like Me " ) . Talk about adding insult to injury . But I digress , in order to solve their first case , the have to work together despite their differences . A typical buddy / cop film despite the slags . Thankfully the film chooses to sprinkle the social commentary on race relations lightly on and the film's more about being an action movie . ( Sadly the subsequent TV series choose the opposite tact much to it's detriment ) . While it's not a great film by any means , the acting is merely serviceable ( James Caan being the only standout ) , the plot is VERY formulaic and clichéd . But it's an enjoyable enough time waster when in the right mode . Plus it's the most skin you'll likely see from Leslie Bevis ( and no she's not nude in this just the side )
the least fun of the five	In the third made for TV Hercules film , Hercules ( Kevin Serbo ) and Deianeira ( Tawny Kitaen taking over for Renée O'Connor , who I guess was too busy with " Darkman II " ) go off on a quest for fire to save the world from cold . It was alright , but prone to over-sentimental bits and didn't have quite as much action as the previous two films , or the two that followed . However , following the mantra of any Hercules is good Hercules , I can't really saddle this with a bad score , even if it IS the worst of the five made for TV movies . Anthony Quinn as Zeus was one of the great parts of the film , in my opinion .
Somewhere between Bloodrayne and Blade	Lucy Liu stars as Sadie , a reporter who disregards what could be a big scoop until she reads of a murder of a girl on the front page . She investigates & is promptly killed by vampires . The End . . . wait , no the movie goes on ( dammit ) Sadie now a vamp herself , decides to get even with those that turned her with the help of the cop ( a severely under-used Micheal Chiklis ) whom fathered the aforementioned murdered girl . This movie could have been better , as far as vampire flicks go , I've seen much worse . But this film is still a female Blade clone and Sadie herself is a bit one-dimensional and repetitive in her actions to hold my interest for long . Still the film moves at a brisk pace even if it lacks any kind of originality . I didn't hate it nor love it . I guess that's called indifference . Eye Candy : Cameron Richardson gets topless ; Samaire Armstrong and Lucy Liu provide T &
Massacre of acting abilities	David , the new kid in school , prefers not to join the club that the only new friend he made , Mark , runs in . Craig , the leader of said gang doesn't like that David isn't falling in line and when he saves some " bull dykes " from getting raped by the gang , he pays for his insolence . Now after a stint in the hospital , he plots revenge . Horrid acting hamper this ' message ' horror movie . Homoerotic sub-text , lame killings , and bad dialog don't help either . And don't get me started on that theme song . Go rent " Class of 1984 " instead . Eye Candy : Kimberly Beck & Cheyrl Smith show all ; Lani O'Grady shows breasts
only one good scenes	When the film started the first 4 minutes seemed like a travelogue of California , I was wondering if I got the tapes mixed up . Then I breathed a sigh of relief to see Paul Thomas in a scene with the lovely Joanna Storm and Laurie Smith . This is being spied on by Jimmy ( a young Tom Byron ) . Jimmy's aunt ( Honey Wilder ) is concerned about his behavior so she hires him a private teacher ( Kay Parker ) . I could do without the animal , robot role-playing , or the incest aspects . There's one good sex scene , between Byron and Parker , but it's not good enough to save this film .
can I get a movie surrogate ?	Felicia and Gary ( Chloe and Steven St . Croix respectively ) are a married couple bored with their sex life and at the urging of Felicia's friend , Carmen ( Ava Vincent AKA Jewel Valmont ) , they hire Trina ( Jacy Andrews ) , an unorthodox sex therapist to reignite their long lost passion . The sessions seem to work , until the therapist winds up dead and Gary arrested . So Felicia and Carmen set out to find the real killer . How you ask ? Felicia by playing a detective and Carmen by sleeping with everyone , man that was a silly question . Personally , if I understand why he needed a sex surrogate , if I had a wife that flat . . . I kid , I kid . Fortunately this was of the software films where the music doesn't drown out any moaning . Better then the director's previous film " Young and Seductive " ( which for the record was neither ) The Goods : 8 Sex Scenes ( Solo , m / f , f / f , m / f / f ) Babe of the Movie : Jewel Valmont without a doubt wins the kudos this time Where I Saw It : Showtime on demand
while it's alright , one can't help but feel that someone ' screwed the pooch '	Bobcat Goldthwait should be commended for attempting to do something different with this surprisingly heartfelt film , a cautionary tale about the pitfalls of being honest about everything . Melinda Hamilton stars as Amy , a girl who has had oral sex with a canine in the past on a lark . She struggles with telling her fiancé , John . Of course the truth does rear it's shaggy ugly head . The film deals with the fallout of said escapade . The movie is well-acted by all , save for perhaps Jack Plotnick as Dougie , who never really felt like he mashed well with the picture . And the film while solid enough seems to miss it's mark a few times . Every single person in the film struggles with massive hypocrisy and all our a tad hard to relate to . Bobcat should be commended for doing something different , as I said before , but different does not always equal good and this pales ever so slightly not to Goldthwaits own directorial debut , the criminally misunderstood " Shakes the Clown "
A ( quasi ) good Al Adamson film , who would've thunk it ?	Low-budget schlock director , Al Adamson & frequent collaborator , John D'Amato tell this story of Sandra Tate ( adult movie star Georgina Spelvin of " Devil in Miss Jones " & " the Jade Pussycat " fame ) a prisoner who escapes from custody during a cat-fight between the other female prisoners before she's picked up by Erica , a member of a crime syndicate who whisks her away to the head of said organization who promptly offers her a job which she promptly accepts . When the prostitute whom she hires to help eliminate her first assignment ( a politician with a bad heart ) bugs out and skips town for the border , Sandra & Erica are hot on her trail to tie up this loose end ( no pun intended ) I'm not usually too found of Al Adamson helmed films ( Doctor Dracula & Dracula Vs . Frankenstien are utterly abysmal ) , but compared to his other output , this picture is actually pretty good . Doesn't hurt that I like Georgina Spelvin and think she was an under-rated golden age adult star ( speaking of which she plays a real piece of work here ) The movie drags in parts and has some filler , but the dune buggy / car chase was pretty good and although the movie was far from perfect I didn't feel as if I wasted my time watching it . Eye Candy : Sandy Carey & Tallie Cochrane get topless ; Susan McIver and Georgina Spelvin both show T &
Summerslam 2005 was better	Match 1 ) Spike Dudley and the Dudleys Vs . Rey Mysterio , Paul London and Kidman . I found this match pretty long and boring . Not really giving two s # ! + s about any of the wrestlers ( excluding Mysterio of course ) didn't help matters . As bland and boring as it was , it wasn't the worst of this pay per view . The Dudleys won but does anyone care ? . They plays clips from Monday night Raw on how the next match / love feud came about . Match 2 ) Matt Hardy Vs . Kane for Lita's pregnant hand in marriage with Kane's baby . Kane ceased being cool when he lost his mask and the dropped the hideously scarred face plot line , so I really wasn't looking forward to this match that much . Kane wins after an amazing choke slam , the only notable thing of the match . This causes Lita to run away . John Cena interrupts an interview with Randy Orton . Man I hate Cena . Match 3 ) Booker T Vs . wigger John Cena . After a lousy match , Cena wins . Theo Long and Eric Bischoff talk . Match 4 ) Batista Vs . Chris Jericho Vs . Edge in a Triple Theat Matchin a good match , then again it might have only looked good because of the lameness that came bore . . A promo for " Hard Knocks : the Chris Benoit Story " is shown . Match 5 ) Eddie Guerro Vs . Kurt Angle Good Ole ' Kurt rarely disappoints in his matches and this one was no exception . Both are very capable technical wrestlers and it shows . Angle wins in one of the few bright spots of this PPV . . Clips of the events leading up to the next event are shown Match 6 ) Triple H beats Eugene in an alright match . Not really a Eugene fan . . Match 7 ) Diva Dodgeball . God the horror , the horror . Worse then a women's match ( if such a thing is even possible ) Simply horrid . Match 8 ) Undertaker Vs . JBL , after a good lengthy match JBL wins via disqualification , but Undertaker isn't done pummeling JBL yet . . Paramedics tend to JBL and cart him away . Commercial for Wrestlemania 21 . Match 9 ) Randy Orton Vs . Chris Beniot . I like Orton's Motorhead theme song . Orton wins in a pretty tight match , becoming the World Champion . not the best match , but in the top 3 of the night My Overall Grade : C-DVD Extras : 11 Summerslam Promos ; Behind the scenes of said promos ; 3 clips from the Sunday Night Heat before the PPV ; Evolution reacting to Orton's Victory ; Eddie Guerrero consoling Benoit after his match ; The Diva contestants being interviewed ; and Trailers for the Gamecube game " Day of Reckoning " , " Cheating Death , Stealing Life : the Eddie Guerrero Story " , & " Vengence 2004 "
the lesser of all Belphégors	After putting a mummy in a local museum goes through the cat-scan , a metal object in it's brain reacts adversely to the procedure , thus freeing the spirit , or phantom if you will , of the mummy , Belphegor . Due to convenient circumstances , Lisa , who lives close to the museum finds herself possessed by the evil spirit . Soon enough she's stealing the museum's Egyptian treasures out from under their nose . Detective Verlac comes out of retirement to catch the supernatural thief . This is a serviceable enough , if you haven't seen any other incarnations of " Belphégor " before . If you have , I recommend skipping this particular version as it can't help but pale in comparison to the others despite the nice locals and scenery . It plays out like a ( slightly ) higher budgeted Sci-Fi Original film , and I don't really mean that as a compliment . Eye Candy : Sophie Marceau shows ass & side boob DVD Extras : none
would be OK if two things hadn't soured the film for me	When 4 teenagers are traveling to a rock concert , driving through Texas after taking a stop in Mexico to get their illegal substance of choice , they make the mistake of picking up a deranged and unhinged hitchhiker , whom after seeing that they're going the way she really doesn't want to go , takes a gun out of her snatch and kills herself . Thus begins the yet another horror remake in a long LONG line of redone horror movies . And given my disdain for warmed over carbon copies of earlier better movies , i found myself unexpectedly enjoying this one . . . well to a point at least . The unmasking and softening of Leatherface was a misstep of massive proportions in my eyes and the addition of new family members reminded me more of the simply atrocious " TCM : the Next Generation " than anything else . Both of these things soured the movie a bit for me . However , I found R . Lee Ermey to be quite good in this film and compared to other remakes , it's still above average , if nothing close to the enjoyability of the high point of the " Dawn of the Dead " remake . 2 Disc Platinum Edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by director Marcus Nispel , producer Michael Bay , executive producers Andrew Porm and Brad Fuller and New Line co-chairman Robert Shaye ; Second commentary by Nispel , cinematographer Daniel Pearl , production designer Greg Blair , art director Scott Gallagher , sound editor Trevor Jolly and composer Steve Jabinsky ; Third commentary by Nispel , Bay , Porm & Fuller , screenwriter Scott Kosar and actors / actresses Jessica Biel , Erica Leerhsen , Eric Salfour , Jonathan Tucker , Mike Vogel & Andrew Bryniarski Disc 2 ) 7 deleted / Alternate scenes ( including an alternate opening & ending ) ; music video by Motogrator ; Screen tests of Jessical Biel , Eric Balfour , and Erica Leerhson ; the 72 minute documentary " Chainsaw Redux : Making a Massacre " ; 2 stills galleries ; a 25 minute doc on Ed Gain ; 7 TV spots ; Teaser & Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Highwaymen " , " Willard " , " the Butterfly Effect " , & " Ripley's Game " ( it also has DVD-Rom content but I couldn't get that to work )
disappointment	Suffering from over-acting by pretty much everyone involved , except the great Michael Rooker and the under-acting Kevin Smith , this sophomore slump movie by the director of " Clerks " about two friends , TS & Brodie , taking refuge in the local mall after both being dumped , is sadly yet ultimately a huge letdown . The only thing mildly amusing in this mess is the mildly retarded Wile E . Coyote-styled hijinks of Jay and Silent Bob . Is that enough to sit through this film ? That's debatable and depends on your fondness of all things Kevin Smith . I was a fan until I realized what a one-trick pony he was . I grew up and grew out of this stunted growth humor , of which this film is probably the worst offender in his canon . Eye Candy : Joey Lauren Adams , and Priscilla Barnes get topless OOP Collecter's Edition DVD Extras : Commentary by director Kevin Smith , actors Ben Affleck , Jason Lee and Jason Mewes , producer Scott Mosier and Vincent Pereira ; 20 minute Making-Of ; Live footage from the Commentary session ; an hour & 2 minutes of Deleted Scenes with introduction by Kevin and Vincent ; Cast & crew Bios ; The Goops " Build Me Up Buttercup " music video ; Production Photographs ; and Theatrical Trailer Easter Eggs : Highlight the robot eyes in the first page of the Bonus Materials menu , for Kevin Smith shamelessly hawking View Askew merchandise
and the eye's have it	Frances ( Madeline Zima , currently spellbinding on " Californication " ) is on the way to a camping trip with a few friends when a sudden bout of uncontrollable vomiting ( which might or might not be due to Ectasy ) forces them to stop at a secluded run-down gas station , which in turn sets forth a string of unfortunate events . Soon Frances is distracted by a little girl whom she follows to a house that holds some sinister secrets . Now an unseen monster is after her friends as she tries to help the strange little girl . I was willing to go along with the film up to a point , but the ending pretty much ruined the whole experience for me and was handled better in film's such as " Session 9 " , " the Devil's Chair " and others . Still Madeline Zime is always a joy to watch on screen so it wasn't a total loss . It just wasn't a great choice to waste an hour and a half on either .
his scalpel is dull and rusty	In the 1950's , young Julian witnesses his brother being murdered by a surgeon ( with the sounds of the Chordettes ' " Lollipop " none the less ) . Now all grown up he turns to stalking patients , of the hospital where he got canned for carrying on unlicensed experiments on regeneration , and killing them for fluid he needs to carry on his aforementioned experimentation . It's up to his ex , Theresa and her new ' flavor of the week ' Ben , to stop the carnage . Even with such heavyweight talents as Peter Boyle ( as a hardened cop ) and Malcolm McDowell ( as an ape-experimenting doctor ) in this film , it still can't overcome it's clichéd premise and story . Most of the acting is serviceable but somehow lacking , the killer is not all that memorable nor terrifying , and the tension was non-existent . I've seen a lot worse but this movie is still just too mundane to recommend to anyone . Screenplay writer Patrick Cirillo wound go on to pen the much better " Tears of the Sun " Eye Candy for the guys : Juliette Jeffers gets topless ; Isabel Glasser shows everything Eye Candy for the girls : James Remar's penis & ass
cut & dry companion piece to " Watchman " only worth a watch for die-hard fans	This faux news show featuring interviews with Hollis Mason ( Stephen McHattie ) and Silk Spectre among others about Mason's superhero expose ' Under the Hood ' which runs 37 & a half minutes and can be found as an extra on the DVD of " Tales of the Black Freighter " ( and presumingly on the upcoming special edition of " Watchman " as well ) feels rushed and too cut and dried . Although this was supposed to be an old 1970's news show complete with commercials , it didn't really have that feel in the least so the general conceit of it just falls flat . Worth a watch for only the die-hard fans of " Watchman " and sadly not worth the time invested for anyone else .
it is what it is	Drunk and adventurous young woman ( in some kisses too young , a 17 year old got this title discontinued and now out of print ) flash the video camera tits , ass , and bush at Spring Break in Panama Cite beach Florida . Some are hesitant to do it for one set of beads , no problem though as TWO sets of beads are quite enough for these greedy , greedy people . I do applaud the makers letting the not so hot girls in as well ( even if there had no choice and had to pad the running time some how ) The DVD came with both Volumes 1 and 2 . I liked volume 2 better as it's set in Mardi Gras and I liked seeing places that I know in the background ( Ie . I've been there , hey look The Dungoen " . It's not really a fair representation of Mardi Gras tho , as most of the people on camera are white and in real life they do A lot more for beads , I could tell you some stories there . Also there are a lot my bead teases ( girls who pretend they're gonna flash and don't ) those assholes . I'm gonna rate this middle of the road . You get what you expect . It is what it is .
slow , tedious , and repetitive , but strangely watchable	A warped and demented mother's boy , Howard ( Robert Gribbin ) makes a habit of raping & killing various women hitchhikers . When the bodies mount up it's up to Captian Shaw of the Crescent P . D . ( played by Russell Johnson , better known as the Proffesor from Gilligan's Island ) to try to catch this deviant . The film is a tad on the tedious side ( Howard picks up hitchhiker , rapes , kills , back to momma's for dinner , has flask backs to the murders , rinse & repeat ) Of course interspersed with the Professor hamming it up . Their IS however one scene that deviates from the standard path that the movie sets up , it has a stereotypical flamboyant gay guy ( aptly listed in the credits as ' gay boy ' ) whom Howard picks up and is obviously used for misplaced comedic effect . Oh and a pregnancy sub-plot that comes out of nowhere and feels like it should be in a different movie completely , in this one it just felt like painful melodramatic filler . Given the subject matter and the fact that this is a low-budget exploitation movie , it's pretty tame going . For all it's faults ( and there are a great many of them ) the film isn't as bad as it is made out to be and i've seen worse . Russell Johnson himself makes the film watchable . If you lack a pretty high tolerance for these kind of low-budget films though I'd recommend that you steer clear . Something Weird DVD Extras : 3 shorts : " the Hitch-Hiker " , " Dangerous Strangers " & " the Cautious Twins " ; A 27 minute tour of Box office International with Harry Novak circa 1992 ; Gallery of exploitation art with accompanying soundtrack ( 5 minutes , 19 seconds ) ; Theatrical trailer ; and 2 trailers for the other film on the DVD " Kidnapped Coeds " ( one under it's alternative title of " Kidnapped Lover " ) Eye Candy : Jacqueline Poseley gets topless ; Jane Ratliff shows brief nipple
the PC stoner film	Harold and Kumar hit the road looking for Sliders from White Castle and weed . They encounter such " wacky " characters as racist jocks , wrongly imprisoned blacks ( well it IS a comedy after all ) , other stoners , and Doogie Houser . Directed by the same moron who made " Dude , Where's My Car ? " . Fortunately , it doesn't have the same writer . So this film is mildly amusing . . . MILDLY . I saw it because some people have called it un-politically correct . Of course , me being vastly against that train of thought , I thought what the hay I'll give it a spin . Well let me set that straight , this is a pretty damn PC comedy . Do I feel like my time was wasted watching it ? Nope , not really . It just wasn't nearly as good as I was led to believe . You can find way better ' stoner ' comedies , may I suggest any " Cheech & Chong " , " Dazed & Confused " , or " Half Baked " Eye Candy : Malin Akerman , and 4 other nobodies get topless
the un-Tom and Jerry oddity	A VERY un-Tom and Jerry short . Jerry narrates this tale that revolves around Tom the cat falling in love and losing her to his rival , Butch . Tom is best friends with Jerry here which irked me a bit . The cartoon is also presented in Cinemascope . Overall I found this Tom and Jerry cartoon sad and depressing . The should have just put " Puss gets the boot " on the DVD instead and I would've been happy . This experimental animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set . It's the last one on the set and I'm hoping that Warner Brothers chooses to release a second Volume soon .
I detest Tweety	Sylvester Cat sees Tweety in the window of a department store and decides to sneak in to catch and eat the bird . I hate Tweety's singing ( he only seems to know two songs , which he alternates in every single damn short that he's ever in ) I hate Tweety's way of talking with that speech impediment of his . Yes you could say with certainty that I am NOT a big fan of Tweety in the least bit . Give me Wile E . , Road Runner , Bugs , Daffy , Porky , Foghorn leghorn , or pretty much any other character and I'll be happy . But not Tweety bird . At the end Sylvester crosses birds off his list of things he wants to eat . If only this was the last of the Tweety cartoons sigh This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and also features an optional Music & effects only track .
enjoyable in a inept brain-dead sort of way	In the fall of 1986 , Darius Foxx ( Rob Arbogast ) witnesses his mailman father kill his mother and her lover before shooting himself . Now as a budding psychopath , he takes over the old mailman's route to be closer to his brother , who's since been adopted . He plans to recruit the kid in on his games of opening other people's mail , practical jokes , & killing . His brother , finding out about his best friend dating his sister behind his back is eager to cut loose from his adoptive family . This movie doesn't really make sense , the actions made by any of the character's in the film make less . Be it the sister who's eager to believe anything , the killer who lacks any true motivation , or the corrupt mayor who's plot line goes nowhere fast . However , that being said , it's still entertaining in a horribly idiotic , inept B-movie kind of way . I wasn't bored so I guess that has to count for something . But I make the bones about it , the films still horrid . Eye Candy : Diana Kauffman , Danielle Petty & two extras get topless ; meanwhile Ari Tinnen takes both a shower and a bath , but no real nudity ( worst c-teases of recent memory )
No Walken , no good movie	A series of grisly ritualistic murders transpires in Bucharest , Romania . Gruff cop , Dani Simionescu ( Sean Pertwee from " Dog Soldiers " and " Equilibrium " ) teams up with Interpol agent , John Riegert ( John Light ) to track the killer down . Meanwhile , Allison ( new B-movie mainstay , Kari Wuhrer ) is a church worker , who , after her priest drops dead , gets to be in possession of an ancient manuscript called the Lexicon , that is still being written by an unseen hand and holds the key to turning the tides in the war against God's army and the army of Satan depending on who gets to it first . Now she is being pursued by both in this movie that has tenuous links to the previous three films at best . Entering this film I was very skeptical about a Prophecy film with no Christopher Walken in sight and to it this film set on the shelf for some time before getting a release and my expectations were low to non-existent . I was surprised then that the film was better than the atrocious part 2 . Sean Pertwee in no small part , helped with the enjoyment of the film with his excellent acting , even if the story itself is lacking . The metaphysical pseudo-religious mumbo-jumbo does tend to try one's patience before the film is over , and the lack of any real ending still makes this one pretty bad , it's just better than I had expected .
Imagine a B-grade X-files episode , but really bad	At the behest of the police , child shrink Dr . Jon Holland ( Timothy Busfield from " Studio B on the Sunset Strip " ) starts to help a little girl who witness her brother get pulled under the bed by someone or something . First suspecting the absentee father and treating it as a kidnapping case , when that doesn't pan out . They try hypnosis with consequences that Jon isn't ready for . He must re-examine his past to solve this mystery . The chemistry of the believing in the strange Dr . Jon and the highly skeptical female college along with the subject matter , it suddenly hit me that I felt like I was watching a B-grade copy of an X-files episode rather than a true Outer Limits episode . And not a very good one at that . Definitely not one of the better shows of the series ( or even just the first season )
yet another C Thomas Howell stinker	Addison ( C . Thomas Howell , whom if he's one of the main stars in ANY post 1986 movie is going to suck ) who after finding out that his wife has been murdered and being the prime suspect , attempts to catch the real killer . Vargas ( Giancarlo Esposito ) is an ex-cop who was disgraced by Addison , who comes along to help him reluctantly . This is a typical run of the miller thriller , no more , no less . The ending is a silly . The acting is pretty bad by Howell and even more so from a wasted Ben " Farscape " Browder . All in all , very VERY forgettable . Or maybe that's just me being hopeful again . Eye Candy : Sean young gives a quick full frontal
almost Omega Dog	Written and directed by Nick Cassavetes , this true life cautionary tale of Jessie James Hollywood ( here renamed Johnny Truelove and played by Emile Hirsch of " girl Next Door " fame ) and his infamous kidnapping and subsequent death of Nick Markowitz ( redeemed Zack Mazursky and played by Anton Yelchin best known for " Hearts in Atlantis ) , seems slickly made but is also deeply exploitative . Having made the movie this soon after the actual events , don't expect the film to have any significant closer to it . Asking the viewer to have even a little sympathy for the victimizers ( this film is guilty of that on occasion ) is not that palatable for me . The movie is not that well acted , except for Ben Foster as the kidnapped kid's bother and if you want to stretch the term ' good ' just a bit , i might hesitantly include Timberlake who at slightly above average is still a lot better then i thought he would be . Kepp an eye out for the scene with Sharon Stone in the most laughably awful ' fat ' make-up that I've ever seen . This is better then Cassavete's earlier John Q , but not by much and it's no less simple-minded . DVD Extras : Behind the scenes featurette ; time-line of the witnesses ; an ad for HD-DVD ; and Trailers for " Breach " , " Children of Men " , " Smokin ' Aces " , " Hot Fuzz " & the remake of " the Hitcher " Eye Candy : Amber Heard , Amanda Seyfried , and Olivia Wilde all get topless ; while Heather Wahlquist showcases her magnificent ass
a rather pedestrian affair	When Ben Kohler ( Sam Robards ) gets an experimental brain transplant / chip implant after being shot in the head from point-blank due to a common mugging , he begins to see visions of what a murderer is seeing , but the murder can do the same thing to Ben . Turns out the doctor ( Jacob's Ladder's Elizabeth Peña ) who spearheaded the surgery isn't telling everything to a much bewildered Ben . Not particularly bad , but not that good either . The acting was alright , but the story has been told better in other films and TV shows . No variations on the theme to speak of in this episode .
Art-house horror	John Pressman ( Micheal ' I shoulda called Ditech ' Lerner ) works at a doctor's office as an orderly . His mother ( Zelda ' Poltergeist ' Rubenstein ) hypnotizes him to off the people who see thinks wronged him . But this turns out to be a movie within a movie , but the lines soon blur as John goes a movie theater to kill . Prompting a guy who's watching the movie to do the same . Lerner is suitably over the top in this , but Zelda repeats lines of dialog over and over again . That gets annoying fast . But not as annoying as the two girls who are watching the movie within a movie . As a horror film this one fails , it's too busy trying to be clever , trying to impart a message and seems to forget a slasher film must evoke a sense of tension , or at least a jump or two . No , what we have here is the worst kind of slasher : An art-house one .
A psychological bent	Robin Williams stars as Gabriel No one an openly gay radio host who takes an interest in a regular caller , a boy suffering from Aids contacted via rape . His former lover is highly skeptical and this sends No one on a quest to find out the truth . The film is pretty well acted , but a tad too slow , more than a tad predictable , & any ambiguity at all that might have conceivably helped the film is negated by an ending sequence that causes the entire movie to suffer . And as such I can't really recommend this film , but at the same time hesitant to call it worthless . I find it easiest when the movie I'm reviewing is either good or bad , but this is neither . Slow but well acted . Bland but vaguely interesting . Ying and yang I guess . DVD Extras : ' the night listener revealed ' featurette ; and 3 minute deleted scene
A miss for Chan	Starting off as promising as any other Gordon Chan film , this tale about Hong Kong special forces , the supernatural , Heaven & Hell , soon buckles underneath it's own weight & moves from interesting and promising to just plain silly and tedious , before sputtering to a lifeless and unfulfilled conclusion . Both Andy Lau and Anthony Wong are as good as always , but they really deserve a much better movie for both their considerable talents . This is not one of my favorite Chan films by a long shot to say the least . That's sad as he's usually a solidly good director . DVD Extras : Commentary by Gordon Chan ; A 22 minute Making of ; Both Hong Kong & US Trailers , & Trailers for " King of Beggars " , " Beast Cops " , " Option Zero " , " First Option " , " 2000 A . D . " , " Running out of Time " , " Body Weapon " , " Dragon Inn " , " Fist Power " , & " the Duel "
don't watch it sober , unfortunately i did	Mulva is put in a sugercoma by Teen Ape . When she awakens she's considerably hotter ( the parts played by Debbie Rochon in this sequel ) , and out for revenge on those that did her wrong . As the sub-title and box art implies this is indeed a take off on the " Kill Bill " films , but this being a Chris Seaver's film , it's a wildly incompetent satire ( and I use that last term extremely loosely ) I'd love to say this is better than the first film , but truth be told I was so impossibly drunk off my ass when I saw the previous film that I can't even hope to compare the two at this point in time . But I must have enjoyed it since I bought the sequel ( see when I'm drunk I like , for lack of a better word , complete and total crappy movies ) There are a few laugh out loud moments ( very few ) but I do remember Bonejack being funnier though . Well at least at slightly over an hour , it IS over mighty quickly for what it's worth . DVD Extras : Audio commentary by Director Chris Seaver , actress Debbie Rochon , and the Lbp gang ; Second commentary by Seaver ; 31 minute Making of featurette ; Lloyd Kaufman's 6 minute tribute to low budget pictures ; Fake 2 minute syrup commercial ; stills gallery ; Promo trailer ; and trailers for : Mulva " , ' Quest for the Egg Salad " , " Fiilthy McNasty " 1 , 2 , & 3 ; " the Feral Man " , " the Bonesetter " , " Midnight Skater " , " Demon Summer " & " Splatter Rampage Wrestling "
not as colorful as a rainbow	Two lesbians hook up for a one night stand . When one of them has to leave for work early in the morning the other one accidentally gets locked in . If the word lesbian makes you think of those faux Skinamax / Porn ' lesbians ' then this is really not for you . It attempts to capture true lesbians ( IE . not nearly as attractive ) and in that aspect it succeeds quite well , but story wise it's quite drab . This 15 minute short film apparently won a few gay and lesbian award . All I can say is big whoop , it's a tad ironic that a lesbian themed short tended to suck so much , wouldn't you say ? It was however quite funny that at the end all those people seemed shocked that the government lesbian was in fact a lesbian . That elicited a chuckle . My Short
Disconnected	Gerald Thornhill leads a dreary existence , being middle aged and still living with his mother . When he keeps getting mysterious phone calls on his way to and from work , he stumbles on a way to free himself in this 8 minute black and white short from the UK . Not to be confused with the Malcolm McDowell thriller from 1987 . I couldn't really relate to the main character as he seemed too passively malicious . Technically the short was OK , it just left too many questions unanswered . Not that I like everything spelled it , as that's not the case at all . It's just Gerald's mom didn't seem overbearing in the least . My Short
entertaining yet infilling	Jeffrey Combs is Colin Childress , an occult comic book illustrator , whom inadvertently sets a demon loose in his basement after he draws him on the comic page . He's able to destroy him , but in his wonderment he fails to notice that a fire has started before it's too late and he is engulfed along with the monster . That was 30 years ago . Now a huge fun of Mr . Chilress and another cartoonist herself , Whitney ( Debrah Farentino of " Eath 2 " cult fame ) has come to Colin's house , now part of an artist's colony . She meets a new friend , Phillip ( Bian Robbins primarily know for being Eric from ' Head of the Class ' ) , he's the only one who actually likes her of the group of artists . Meanwhile , she's unaware that her drawings are resurrecting the creature to kill once more . Jeffrey Combs is great for the very limited amount of screen time that has . The rest of the film is fun enough , but it all felt too insubstantial , fluffy even . An entertaining little film , too bad it's not on DVD yet . Eye Candy : Miranda Wilson is topless just getting out of a shower
Halle's Hissy fit ruins the franchise	Halle Barry had a hissy fit about her character Storm not getting as screen time as she wanted , so for better or worse ( mostly the latter ) , Storm is pretty integral to the plot of this third film , which has to do with the Phoenix , a mutant cure , Magneto as Nazi , amongst other jumbled plot points that are crammed into the shortest running time of any x-man film . Of course to elevate Storm to leadership position and thus satisfy Barry's huge inflated ego , you would have to get rid of any better more rational choice of characters to lead he X-men . Rationality and good characterization be damned . Halle won an Oscar , she get's her way . Sadly we , the moviegoer pay the price with a movie that's under developed , character's that act out of character , and quite a few lame catch phrases ( I'm the Juggernaut , bitch ) . I guess Mr . regular Joe Q . Public MAY like them as a lot of ' stuff blows up good ' , but readers of the comic ? Not so much . My grade : DVD Extras : Audio commentary with director Brett Ratner , writers Simon Kinberg and Zak Penn ; Second commentary with producers Avi Arad , Lauren Shuler Donner and Ralph Winter ; 13 Deleted scenes with optional commentary from Ratner , Kinberg , and Penn ; A minute long promo for the upcoming Simpsonns movie ; Two theatrical trailers for this film ; and Trailers for " A Night at the Museum " , " Ice Age 2 : The Meltdown " , " Thank You For Smoking " , " 24 : Season 5 " , " Elektra " , " Daredevil " and " Fantastic Four " Some copies of the DVD have 13 deleted scenes while others have 24 , there is NO WAY of telling which you'll get , so it's a crap shoot & I got only 13
this Raid wouldn't even stop bugs dead	Wendy ( Ginger Lynn ) gives a ride to Barry and Peter ( Jerry Butler and Jay Serling , respectively ) when they arrive in Hawai and can't rent a car . Barry bangs Wendy , but Barry won't have any part of it since he's just been dumped . This being an adult film it doesn't take Barry long to mend his heart at all . Ginger Lynn is always nice to watch ( in her porn films , at least . Her mainstreams ones are very spotty ) but she's really the only reason that I'd ever recommend this one . Even then just hesitantly . I'm just one of those people who just don't like much of Director Svetlana's output ( as evident in my reviews of " Miami Spice " and " Ultra Flesh " My Porn
not bad , but not good since Tucker can't pull the lead off	Geeky Matthew ( John tucker ) loses his virginity screwing some cooze during a blackout , the next morning she's nowhere to be found . So immediately falling in love with her , he goes on a quest to find this nameless girl who could be any of the 100 girls whom live in the dormitory . His roommate , Rod ( James DeBello , better know for his part in the MUCH better Detroit Rock City ) is there to act as a soundboard which Mat gets to tell his ideas too ( and adds to the sophomoric teen comedy humor quota obviously ) . The film isn't that bad for a teen comedy , if you can get past the abundant pitiful similes , metaphors and the fact that Tucker doesn't really have the look to really pull off the shenanigans this movie wants us to readily believe . A couple of enormous hurdles indeed . it's not bad , but there are so many worthier teen comedies out there . Eye Candy : Biljana Filipovic gets topless
too much hipster dialog	In this movie that tries so hard to be " cleverer than thou " , Josh Hartnett as Slevin leads a cast of actors who all speak in pretty much the same voice . That voice , of course , being the faux-hip Tarantino-light , ' hipster wit ' that writer Jason Smilovic unwisely chooses to imbue them with . As the disappointing , yet not unforeseen , outcome of that is one is always keenly aware that one's watching a movie . In that I mean that because the writer is too busy trying to be hip and clever , tat I never was drawn into the film whatsoever and even found it to be a tad on the annoying side . Perhaps I'm being too tough on the film as the tale of mistaken identity , mob hits , and the twists and turns therein is serviceable enough , if on the highly derivative side . and Bruce Willis is , as always , highly watchable . But as a whole the film fizzles out in a sea of pomposity . Eye Candy : Jennifer Miller bares her breasts . . or does she ? hmmmDVD Extras : Audio commentary by director Paul McGuigan ; Second commentary with actor Josh Hartnett , actress Lucy Liu , and writer Jason Smilovi ; 13 minute making-of featurette ; deleted scenes ; Alternate ending ; Theatrical trailer ; and Trailers for " Kill shot " , " The Protector " , " Pulse " , " Clerks 2 " , and " Scary Movie 4 "
there's only so much Sylvester can do to keep this boat from sinking	Sylvester the cat stowaway upon a ship that Tweety bird happens to be on with his owner Granny . Oh I don't even have enough words to convey how much I disdain both the Tweety and Granny characters . They simply are not funny to me and made this short quite the chore to sit through indeed . Sylvester is a great character on his own , but there's only so much he can do when confronted by the sheer awfulness of that accursed bid and senile old witch of a Granny . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 and features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier .
I learned if you kidnap a girl , she'll become a nympho	Two guys goes into a diner , where the owner wants to hear about this " Green Door " , so one of them starts on about the sordid tale about how Gloria ( Marilyn Chambers in her career making role ) gets kidnapped and subsequently massaged and forced to perform in sex acts for high society clientèle , that culminates into a trapeze act with a slow-motion money shot . Marilyn has to be the most passive kidnapped person in the history of the world of cinema . The three things that killed this porno for me was the long stretches of almost complete silence , the lack of any real story , and the mime . I HATE mimes with all my heart . My Porn Babe of the Movie : This is Marilyn's movie all the way
mindlessly entertaining but forgettable	Wade ( Rutger Hauer ) is an American smuggler of biotechnology , during a Russian job , he's quickly disposed of by Merrick ( Mark Dacascos ) . But this being the future , Wade is brought back to life via a clandestine soviet experimentation and goes about gaining vengeance on the people that offed both him and his girlfriend . Make no bones about it , this film is highly forgettable , but for the time that it's on it's entertaining enough . A highly simplistic , derivative story for sure , however for fans of excessive cartoon violence and gratuitous nudity that doesn't advance the plot in the least bit you'll be entertained . Eye Candy : Anita Neszmenyi ; Ildikó Szücs , and numerous extras also appear topless ; Szilvia Bizek & Yvonne Sciò show everything DVD Extras : Picture gallery ; trailer for this film ; and Trailers for " On the Border " , " October 22 " , & " the Peacekeeper "
love , love , love ( don't worry you'll get the reference when you see the film )	Uranis pictures is going out of business and is in dire need of a hit , so they come up with an idea to make a combination of Jaws and Deep Throat called Deep Jaws , a film about insastable mermaids . That's it plot-wise , the humor is all right , but there's only so many jokes one can listen to playing on the name of the studio and Richard Nation's character of Junior is particularly unbearable . All the girls in the film are hot enough , save for one that seems to have abnormal nipples . Also while it's always cool to see the late great B-movie mainstay Geore ' buck ' Flowers , he doesn't really have anything to do in this film . Something Weird DVD Extras : 15 minute Gallery of Exploitation art with accompanying music ; Trailers for " the All-American Girl " , " Teaser " , " the Damish Connection " , " Terror at orgy Castle " , & " Evil Come , Evil go " ; and Theatrical trailers for this film and " The Dicktator " ( which is also on the DVD ) Eye Candy : Every female in this movie bares it all , with the exception of Roxanne Brewer , ' lady diana ' , and Candy Samples who only get topless ( but with as much top heavy talent as those girls possess it's still ALL good )
Same old song and dance my friend	Phil Varone's story about finding musical ( if not financial ) success as the drummer for Saigon Kick and his subsequent battles with drug addiction is truly nothing that you haven't heard before with a million different variations of a million different rock stars , but if you were / are a fan of the band than it's still somewhat interesting to watch once . With nothing truly worthy enough to sink your teeth into , I feel comfortable enough to deem this only worthy of a rent if you have nothing better in you netflix que . It comes off as one of the lesser E True Hollywood story-type deal ( but with ample profanity and a dash of slutty groupie boobs ) . The problem is that not one person in the documentary comes off as particularly charismatic or engaging for that matter . Region 1 DVD Extras : Alternative opening sequence ; Extended EPK ; studio drum session ; ' just hold on ' session ; unedited backstage footage ; Drug zone ; and a candid interview ( the extras all together clock in at an hour and 12 minutes )
Unofficial Mr . Vampire ripoff	This unofficial movie that hoped to capitalize on the original Mr . Vampire film , it came out before the official sequel , is good enough up to a point . Said point being when Pauline Wong as the second corpse that is reanimated starts mimicking every move of a certain character that she becomes bonded to . At this scene the movie starts to degenerate immensely . If you wish to delve into movies dealing with Gyonshi , or the term for the great idea of the hopping vampire , don't start with this one go back to the amazingly great " Mr . Vampire " , SKIP the kid oriented Part 2 , watch the delightful parts 3 and 4 , and IF you're feeling more adventurous THEN give this move a go and watch the strangest crossover EVER when the hopping vampires meet N ! xau in " The gods must be crazy " parts 3 through 5 DVD Extras : Commentary by Ric Meyers ; a compilation ' Martial Arts Theater ' trailer ; and Trailers for " Running out of Time " , " Dragon Inn " , " Armageddon " , " the Duel " , " Body Weapon " , " Fist Power " , and " Deadful Melody "
repeat after me : DON'T go see any movie with L . L Cool J in the theaters	Seven young FBI agents in training for a profiling division called Minhunters go to an isolated island to train , but one of them is killing the others of . This movie really isn't that good for a theatrical film , if it had just gone directly to DVD it would've been alright , as it's the best the best Renny Harlin directed film since 1993's " Cliffhanger " , keep in mind that those intervening years brought as such travesties as " Cutthroat Island " , " Long Kiss Goodnight " , " Deep Blue Sea " and " Driven " , so being better than those isn't exactly hard to do . It's pretty watchable , but the ending is supremely guessable and the actors are saddled with inane lines . Weird because Writer Wayne Kramer seemed to have good dialog pretty much down with his previous film " The Cooler " . My advice wait till it hits your local premium cable station .
for fans of Doug's comedy only	For fans of Doug Benson's comedy , be it stand-up or " Best Week Ever " , you'll get more out of this documentary on him as he goes 30 days with weed and 30 days without then other viewers . If one goes into the film expecting an intelligent documentary on the pros Vs . cons of weed you'll be vastly disappointed . One only needs to know that this was made ' in cahoots ' ( the film's words not mine ) with 420 Partners Llc to know which side of the fence this film firmly sits on and thus skews the ' infomation ' in that direction and to suit it's need . Propaganda in a way , not to say it's not ( vaquely ) entertaining in bits and pieces , it is . Just go into the film knowing that it's slanted and you'll be fine .
can't even hope to lick the boots of earlier Zucker spoofs	Third in the series of " Scary Movie " films and the first without the Wayne brothers , and after the horrendous Scary Movie 2 perhaps that is a good thing . Instead David Zucker take the reigns . The results are better than SM2 , but still pretty bad . I think i chuckled once or twice . Neither of those times was at anything Anna Faris said or did though . Anthony Anderson is pretty much wasted , that's a shame cause the cat CAN act pretty well ( don't believe me ? Catch any episode of him as Atwon Mitchell on " The Shield " especially the 90 minute episode # 51 " Back in the Hole " ) And as for why I didn't get into the plot it's because it really doesn't matter in this movie . DVD Extras : Commentary by David Zucker , Robert Weiss , Craig Mazin , and Pat Proft ; 10 awful deleted scenes ; 23 minute Makin of ; 5 minute making of parody ; Bloopers ; behind the scenes of the alternative ending ; 3 Trailers for " the Osburnes " and a Dimension compilation trailer
First strike	I used to await each new Coen brothers movie with bated breath , each one was greatness from " Blood Simple " all the way to " Oh Brother , where art thou ? " . When I saw this film about a devious divorce attorney falling for a gold-digging bitch I found myself left with a bad taste . This film was vastly unfunny . It was horrible . Both this and the sheerly abysmal remake of " the Ladykillers " has me questioning them . Have the Brothers lost it ? ? That's debatable all I know is I'm no longer getting excited to see a new film by them . I'll stick to those who don't let me down repeatedly ( such as Paul Thomas Anderson , Quentin Tarantino , Wes Anderson , Takashi Miike , Peter Jackson , etc . . . ) . DVD Extras : A fluffy 12 minute look inside the film ; the wardrobe ; 4 crappy outtakes ; cast and crew bios ; and a promo for Focus Features
a slow death indeed	Alice ( Heather Graham ) begins an affair with a famous mountain climber Adam ( Joeseph Fiennes ) , but he holds mysterious secrets . cueonimous music The movie is pretty predictable and I suspect that some men score this highly for Heather Graham's assets ( and I'm not referring to her acting ability or lack there of ) and women like it because they like girlie films and / or Joeseph Fiennes ( yea woman like a good sense of humor above all else my ass ) This is the most naked Heather's been since " Boogie Nights " but I prefer that movie beet , it doesn't have that grocery store paperback feel that this one seems to revel in . You know the ones with Fabio or Fabain or anther of those ' F's on the cover . Eye Candy : Heather Graham shows all
the original was better , and that wasn't really good to begin with	This version of " Toolbox Murder " is more akin to a re-imagining as opposed to a straight remake . This features " May " ' s Angela Bettis as Nell Barrows along with her hubby , Steven , as the two newest residence of the the worn down Lusman Arms apartment complex . Weird stuff begins to happen which frightens her immensely , she can't confide in her hubby , as he's out working at a hospital all the time So she's glad when she befriends Julia Cunningham ( Juliet Landau ) , her new neighbor , but when Julia disappears suspiciously , Nell takes it upon herself to figure out what happened to her . Alas the apartment has a great many deadly secrets , and Nell might not be too thrilled to find them out . Let's face it the original film , while good , was hardly a classic , so I was hoping this version could easily surpass it . But nope , stock character's that you never really care about , some really crappy acting ( was that really May I was watching ? How could that actress be so good in that one , and come of as an over-the-top , overacting shrill in this one ? ) , and a hack eyed pointless supernatural plot twist in the middle of the film that NEVER pays off , all combine into a rancid concoction that I just couldn't swallow . In the way the gore scenes were lit didn't help matters one bit . This was supposed to be a return to true form for poor Tobe Hopper after Steven Spielburg defanged most of what he wanted to do with " Poltergeist " , but as it turns out this film is only marginally better then " The Mangler " DVD Extra : Commentary with director Tobe Hooper , and screenwriters Kace Anderson and Adam Gierasch ; Second commentary with producers Jascqueline Quella and Terence Potter , and Journalist Calum Waddell ; 5 deleted scenes ; footage from a Q & A with Tobe Hooper ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Riding the Bullet " , " May " , " Crocodile " , & " Haute Tension "
extremely dumb humor but it still has some charm	College English professor Steve ( Director Brett Kelly ) plans to propose to his occult-loving , vegetarian girlfriend ( and one time student ) Amy ( Caitlin Delaney ) . So after he accidentally kills her ( in a ridiculous way ) , he chooses to bring her back with the help of the incantation books she conveniently owned to mixed results . They drive to an out of the way cabin in order to wait for her to ' get better ' . But when his friends show up to party at the cabin , Steve has to keep them from figuring out that Amy's now a zombie . Fortunately , his friends seem to be as brain dead as Amy is all dead . This silly little low-budget number was extremely stupid , yet I cracked a smile once or twice despite myself . Of the three Brett Kelly films I've seen thus far ( the Bonesetter Returns , Final Curtain & The Feral Man ) , I feel it's safe to say that I enjoyed this one the most by far . Not to say that the film is flawless ( it has many MANY of them ) just that it had a fun atmosphere to it so I could overlook most of them . Where i saw it : Instant Netflix viewing
Creative license spoils an otherwise important message	Due to the negative ( and at times plain vitriolic ) reaction to the previous documentary by Jacopetti and Prosperi , " Africa Addio " , this film was made to rebuff the critics and appear more " sensetive " to the black race . One can easily see that in the fact that this is the first work of the film makers that reallies primarily on re-enactments and not actual documented footage . It's also fairly easy to surmise when the film chooses to take " creative license " with history . Don't misinterpret me , slavery by and large was an abhorrent nasty practice no matter how you slice it . The act of forcing someone , anyone against their will to do your work is evil . That being said , looking at it from a different standpoint , slaves were commodities , financial commodities . If a slave died , that was a major net profit you lost . No one was going to buy a slave just to kill it . Immegrants ( be they Irish , Chinese , or whatever ) were far more likely to die while working for slave-wages just for that reason . They were NOT commodities to be bought or sold . The point being , that the most crude treatment of blacks as depicted in this film just plainly did NOT happen . By trying to shirk the negative connotation of the last movie , the director's choose to embrace political correctness for this one and the pendulum swung too far the other way . They had compromised the integrity that they had built with the previous Mondo films .
I spy a terrible movie	In this dire remake of the mid to late 1960's Television series of the same name , Eddie Murphy takes over for Bill Cosby and Owen Wilson stands in for Robert Culp . In the version Kelly Robinson is an arrogant cocky boxer who is teamed up with less then stellar secret agent Alex Scott on a secret mission to recover a high tech stealth fighter plane . Unimaginative , unfunny , and VERY generic doesn't help this movie any . Eddie Murphy should just quit making movies while's he's far behind . Give his more talented brother , Charles some roles instead . He sinks Owen down . The 4 screenwriters ( yup it took 4 to come up with this crap ) sadly are not done with sub-par terrible re-makes . Nope not by a long shot , Cormac and Marianne Wibberley are making re-makes of " The Shaggy Dog " AND " I Dream of Jeanie " , while Jay Scherick and David Ronn are going to be held responsible for an all - black version of the Rodney Dangerfield classic " Back to School " . All 4 are a great examples of why Hollywood is a barren cesspool of unoriginal crap . DVD Extras : Both Widescreen & Fullscreen versions ; Commentary by director Betty Thomas , editor Peter Teschner , producer Jenno Topping , and writers David Ronn & Jay Scherick ; 4 featurettes ( Cloak and Camouflage , Gadgets and Gizmos , Schematics and Blueprints , and The Slugfest ; and Trailers for " Adaptation " , " Blue Streak " , " Formula 51 " , " National Security " , and " Punch Drunk Love " 1 Easter Egg : Highlight the motorcycle head light in the Extras menu for an interview with Eddie Murphy about boxing
too much build up , for not enough payoff	Four goof balls go in search of Micheal Rockefeller , long presumed dead when he disappeared while on an expedition in Southwestern New Guinea , in hopes of getting a huge payday after they locate and interview the now legendary figure . They find that the locals are less than hospitable to put it mildly . The also must contend with petty bickering . . . . A LOT of petty bickering . In my opinion , the best films on the subject of cannibal natives are of the grind-house potboiler Italian variety . Movies such as Cannibal Ferox , Jungle Holocaust , and Cannibal Holocaust are extremist fare that any true horror buff can sink their teeth into . This film , on the other hand , while obviously hoping to capture the same unrelenting mood of said movies , can't help but come up short . That in and of itself is really not that surprising as even going into " Welcome to the Jungle " I pretty much knew that it wouldn't compare favorably to those infamous gore drenched films of yesteryear . Instead I decided to give it a chance on the sole reason that I like Jonathan Hensleigh's work for the most part . And while i couldn't really get behind this movie as I found too many parts of it outright boring thanks to severely under-developed characters . It's a bit too much build up for not enough payoff . Still , there ARE worse films out there and one could definitely feel that if the movie were in less capable hands that it would be much MUCH worse . DVD Extras : Commentary by writer / director Jonathan Hensleigh ; a 15 and a half minute Making of ; a deleted scene with optional commentary ; promo trailer for this film ; and trailers for " the Mist " , the atrocious " Halloween " remake ; " 1408 " ; " Black Sheep " & " Broken "
the success of this film . like a ghost , is an unexplained phenomena	A narcissistic hateful teen and her friend drift apart . when she meets a pretentious , introverted loser . In this vastly-overrated " comedy " , how over-rated , you say ? Well let's just say it's ALMOST as over-rated as . . . well a much as Thora Birch's last critically acclaimed movie . Yes , I said it , I loathe the overly clichéd " American Beauty " . Deal with it . Poor girl , she hasn't been in anything good . The two almost saving graces of this film are Steve Besumi and a bit part by David Cross . After seeing the immensely great " Bad Santa " , this one was a huge letdown . Oh yeah , and I dislike Illeana Douglas too . DVD Extras : 4 Deleted Scenes ; Music Video ; Making-of featurette ; Trailers for " The Princess Bride " , " The Terminator " ; and a promotional spot for the soundtrack
fangs but no fangs	Kate Davis ( Chantal Contouri ) is abducted by a group that has been watching her every move . It seems that she's an descendant of Elizabeth ' the Blood Countess ' Bathory , yes the Hungarian whore herself . This secret cabal of wealthy individuals feed on peasants who live on a commune . It's not hard to find the ripe political symbolism there . It feels like it goes on to long , and the vampire ' effects ' are incredible silly . One couldn't help but feel that the movie would have been better served by going to its approach to vampirism the same way as " Martin " did . DVD Extras : Commantary track ; Isolated film score ; Filmographies ; Photo Gallery Theatrical Trailer ; and 3 TV spots Eye Candy : Chantal Contouri shows breasts
Arsonist meets a real fireball Lolita	Anthony Perkins plays Dennis Pitt , an arsonist who was recently parolled from a mental institution falls for Sue Ann ( Tuesday Weld , who most will remember from " Once Upon a time in America " and " Falling Down " , both superior films ) . He lures her into going out with him by concocting a ridiculous story of espenioge . But as things unravel and murder rears its ugly head , has Dennis gotten in over his head ? This film while not the out-right forgotten classic that previous reviewers have suggested , is still pretty good and deserves to be rediscovered . No real twists to speak of , but the acting is spot-on . This film was remade as a TV movie nearly 30 years later , THAT you should avoid . Where i Saw it : Thriller Max
you play one DW game , you've played them all	Dynasty Warriors 5 is when you come down to it a standard hack and slash game with aside with some small graphical improvements nothing to differentiate it . Little to no strategy involved , one can beat the game simply by mashing one button repeatedly to the point of sheer boredom . This might appeal to some small niche of people , but I'm not really one of them . Xbox 360's achievement point system is both a blessing and a curse . On one hand you get to brag over your friends to who has the better gamerscore , on the other hand you have to play boring games like this sometimes . Still the game can be bought cheaply and it's a fairly easy 1000 points if you can wade through it . My current 360 Gamerscore : 32872 out of a possible 49760
Sylvester is slumming with that blasted bird I tell ya	It's Christmas time and Tweety Bird is shoveling out his bird's nest atop a city pole . Sylvester as always wants to eat him , but this time he has competition from a red alley cat who is hungry as well . Tweety is my least favorite of the Looney Tunes characters and I always believed in my heart of hearts that Sylvester was truly slumming whenever he was cast opposite the bird . He deserved better . And if I hear that stupid Gilded Cage song again in my life it will be too soon . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 and includes an optional music only track .
halfling	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Darkling " is about a 12 year old girl who is left alone in her house by her parents who are going to a party . Soon fear gets the best of her and before you know it she's hiding in the closet with her trusty hockey stick . The acting by both the parents are pretty bad , and at 16 minutes it plays out a tad too long , but it's enjoyable enough I guess . Just don't expect anything stellar and I guess you'll like it shrugs It didn't leave an impression on me one way or the other . Strictly middle of the road .
Sadly cut	Master Mao Shan is separated from his four best warriors , Wid , Thunder , Rain , and Lightning , during the midst of a battle with the undead . So they decide to go undercover as servants in order to search for a vampire who they believe is nearby . That's the main plot , but there's many sub-plots and a tad too many characters . But the action scenes are pretty good . And while this is among my least favorite Tsui Hark films , that's more a statement of how much I enjoy his movies than an indictment of this one . Truth be told , I'm kinda hesitantly reviewing this title as the Tristar version is cut by numerous minutes , making the ending more optimistic , so if you ever pick up the un-edited version get in touch with me to tell me how different it is . And if I ever see the original version I , of course , will revise my review accordingly . DVD Extras : Trailers for " Cowboy Bebop " , " National Security " , and " Time and Tide "
average	The Chiodo Brothers talk about the making of this b-movie classic . Including the original opening , how they first came up with the idea , other deleted scenes , why they were deleted , how they made the Klown's explode , the Cocoon gun , the and balloon gag They also talk about their influences and why they love making monster movies , as well as show how the dog wouldn't follow directions . I would have liked to hear more about the actors and what they would like to do in a sequel though . This 21 minute featurette can be found on MGM's ' Midnight Movies ' Special Edition DVD of " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " .
For the most part not a bore	The future director of " Highlander " and the screen-writer of the great HBO staple back in the day " Fortress " team up to tell this Austrailian horror tale that has a giant boar killing a farm owner's grandson . At first no one believes his tale about the huge Razorback , but he eventually gets acquitted on insignificant evidence . After the same Razorback kills a guy's Jounarlist wife after she's run off the road by local owners of the slaughterhouse she was investigating , he along with a graduate scientist researching the boars and the previously mentioned grandfather go hunting . I could have done without the dream sequences and it seems to lose coherence towards the end , but all in all it was simply alright as far as " nature run amok " films go . Though I preferred the previous year's " Of Unknown Origin " more .
a bit entertaining , but mostly forgettable	Maria ( the particularly lovely Ann Henson decked out in very flattering tight fitting clothes ) is trying to have some fun on the phone while driving down a dark road when she sees a seemingly abandoned bus on the side of the road with ' help me ' written on it . She decides to investigate and soon finds a chained up and hooded girl begging for her life . The abductor comes back , so Maria quickly hides . Soon the girl duo find themselves at a secluded castle trying to figure out what's happening while being chased by a deranged hillbilly ( and others but I won't give away the , admittedly silly , ' twist ' ) . The movie is entertaining enough if you're an indiscriminate fan of slasher films , but not really all that horrifying in the least and only gets really picks up steam in the last half hour or so . The movie is also extremely generic and this plot has been seen a million times over ( and mostly better ) All in all a silly forgettable little horror flick worthy of a rental if you have nothing better to do .
average despite Poitier and Phoenix's combined efforts to make it better	Roy Parmenter ( Sidney Poitier ) , having a great mistrust for anything Russian , arguably understandably so as his FBI partner had been killed by a Soviet spy codenamed Scuba decades earlier , has to ascertain if Jeff Grant ( River Phoenix ) , a recent Air Force applicant , is in fact a Soviet spy just as his ' sleeper ' parents are , while at the same time protecting them from the aforementioned spy who killed his partner all those years ago and whom is now has turned rouge and is killing Soviet agents in an effort to extort money from Russia . This film is would be a strictly average ' espionage ' thriller if not for Poitier and Phoenix who give some excellent acting in a vain attempt to propel this film above it's source material . They're not entirely successful , as the movie is still pretty of the cut and paste variety . But at the same time I do appreciate their combined efforts .
take the good with the bad	This 63 minute compilation of clips from Colin's Sleazy Friends , a public access show based out of LA . Features the gay Colin Malone interviewing Corey Feldman talking of gynecology , Kid Rock claiming he can have wild sex on coke ( which is a blatant lie , it's just not possible ) , Tenacious D on censorship and rocking out , among others . Other cool guest are Maynerd from Tool , David Cross & Bob Odenkirk from " Mr . Show " , and Danzig . It loses cool points for having Margaret ( Mizz Unfunny ) Cho , that c & ^ t Janeane Garofalo , Jasmin St . Claire comes off like an asshole , and that loudmouthed Russian bitch , Mila on the show . So overall it was interesting and enjoyable enough except for some of the more crap guests . Eye Candy : Yvonne shows her kitty ; Chander , Lizzy Borden , Dolly Golden , and some girls not identified show tits ; Monique shows ass ; Adina , Sylvia Saint , Alison Embers , and Bridget Kerkove get fully nude ; and a few unknown girls get fully nude ; and WAY too much men ass DVD Extras : Commentary by Colin , Raylene & Chandler ; 6 minutes of Coli's Free Speech party ; 5 & a half minutes of the Deja Vu Party ; Highlights of one episode ( Starring Asia Carrera , Adam Carolla & Jimmy Kimmel ) ; and Photo Gallery
simply watchable	this in no way is a bad movie , yet all through it my mind kept wondering to earlier much better Zombie fare . The gore effects are pretty good and there is a high splatter quotient , but the acting is less than top notch , which would be fine if I actually cared which criminal lived or died . Speaking of the acting , when that Chinese scientist talks in undecipherable English , it took me out of the movie that much more . Despite all that it's a good film , provided you watch it at a party under the influence of alcohol .
Walk Hard limps in the second half	John C . Reilly stars as Dewey Cox in a spoof on music biopics . The film starts off well enough , but as the movie drones on , the jokes quickly become redundant to the point of being downright tedious towards the last half of the movie ( IE . anything after the ' beatles ' segment is progressively worse ) . Reilly is pretty damn good as musical wunderkind , Cox , but sadly he can't compensate for the lackluster script . This isn't Apatow's worst written film ( see Celtic Pride or Fun with Dick & Jane for examples of those ) , but it's still a step down from his more accomplished funnier ones ( Knocked Up , 40 Year Old Virgin ) Walk Hard limps especially in the extended cut . Although most of the songs are quite catchy . My Grade :
it is what it is	Another of the ' books are alive ' shorts , perhaps it's having just watched Robert Clampetts ' superb " Book Revue " short , but I found this one to be still a bit amusing , but somewhat bland . The rapid fire gags were there in spades , but the whole thing just seemed to be missing the manic energy of a typical Looney Tunes short , and therefor felt a bit lifeless and just a tad stale to me . It still remains watchable , but lacks the spark that makes it stand out in any way , shape , or form . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
better than Slime City	After witnessing the aftermath of his parents being shot and killed by a random mugger right outside their apartment door , Randy ( Lamberson film regular , Robert Sabin ) , now suffering from severe agoraphobia finds a roommate in Randy , not a good friend to say the least . This entire film can be found on the DVD of " Slime City " and while this movie's extremely minimal ( most of the film takes place in one location ) , I found this better acted and more interesting then Greg's earlier film . Not really a good film , but an enjoyable one . Perhaps this should have came out on DVD with Slime city as the extra lol . Eye Candy : Amanda Fraser gets topless
this isn't your father's " Alice in Wonderland " . . oh wait , yes it is	Kristine DeBell , future co-star of mainstream classics like " Meatballs " and " The Big Brawl " started her career with this musical / porn / comedy take off on the Alice in Wonderland story . Personally I despise musicals ( with the exceptions of " South Park : Bigger Longer and Uncut " , as well as " Labynth " and " Oh brother , where art thou ? " ) , but porn just doesn't vibe well with musical numbers . Still for what it's worth , it's better than the other porns based on fairy tails of the same era ( Ie . " Goldilocks and the Three Bares " , " Sinderella and the Golden Bra " , " The Erotic adventures of Pinocchio " , etc . . . etc ) Might seem tame for those pervs raised on that crappy video-shot no story porn , but it's good for a chuckle or two . My Porn
Another lackluster Bugs short from McKimson	Mention the name Robert McKimson to any TRUE Looney Tunes fan and you're likely to get a sad sigh in return . The man just did not know how to make good Bugs Bunny cartoons . This one about Bugs in France mixing it up with two rival chefs who each want the rabbit for their own respective cuisines , is not an exception to the rule . On the contrary , it proves the rule by being yet another lackluster effort by McKimson indeed . I mean any bugs is good bugs , but his shorts are pretty mundane and I find myself saddened when I have to sit through one . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
Book of Revelations	Six friends ( and a dog ) each harboring a deep dark secret ( minus the dog , of course ) are invited to an old friend , Roland's ( Lance Henriksen ) , secluded island retreat . Where they are promptly poisoned via wine at dinner . Seems Roland had experienced a near-death life-changing experience when he unknowingly drank poison while traveling abroad , and he wishes to share this ' gift ' with the others in order to free them of their inner demons . But as one by one they start dropping dead , is his reasoning truly sound ? Henrikson is a magnificent actor who has been in some dreadful films ( Pumpkinhead 3 , the Mangler , etcetera ) but with even a mediocre script , he can and does take the ball and run with it . Here he pulls off a pretty good performance , sadly however the rest of the cast can't hope to excel and pale in comparison . The movie itself is good enough until it devolves before your eyes into something akin to a Made-For-Lifetime TV movie . ( you'll understand after watching it ) But it still kept my interest for the most part , thanks in no small part to Lance .
average	This documentary gives a brief and totally bland lightweight and uninformative history of Giallo films . It then talks about the film " Lizard in a Woman's Skin " of which this featurette can be found as an extra on the second disc of Shriek Show's 2-DVD set of that movie ( which itself is a mixed bag ) . The interview with Florida Bolkan is pretty good . She talks about her experiences of working on the film and her first impressions of Fulci himself . This documentary also has interviews with various other members of the surviving cast and crew . It's good for what it is , but perhaps I was just expecting a little bit more .
Misleading title	In the ( not so ) grand tradition of Pamela and Tommy Lee's Honeymoon video , Tonya Harding's sex tape , and ' Survivor's Jenna ' going down on some dude , comes this misleadingly titled Paris Hilton video . It's actually a few nights in Paris , so much for truth in advertising . But I digress , what do you get for your hard earned money you ask ? First up is an elongated black and white version of the scene that you can find on the net for free , Paris looking like a doe trapped in the headlights and all . The elongated part of said scene is endless minutes of Rick stroking his manhood . ( i did NOT need to see that ) and Paris leaving ped off because her breasts looked vieny in nightvision . The second scene isn't a sex scene at all , just Paris and Rick arguing . The third scene is Rick and Paris going at it again , this time in color and Paris seems to enjoy herself quite a bit more . Which leads us , into the last scene , which is hands-down the best one ( no mean feat here ) It revolves around Ms . Hilton giving what looks to be a pretty damn good BJ . Rick narrates between the 4 scenes only to prove he's a cocky lil ' punk . Also on the DVD is scenes from 4 additional titles from the company . The second disk of this 2-DVD set is just a collection of various trailers . Unless you just HAVE to see everything Paris Hilton , this is only good enough for a rent , and that's stretching it .
Sadly Eye see this movie	From the Director of such " greats " as I Know what you did last Summer & Joyride , comes another failed Stallone come-back attempt . In this one Rocky himself is taken to a Detox clinic after he hits the bottle when his fiancé gets killed . But it seems the killer is there too . Naturly it's up to Stallone to save the day . If I could sum up this movie in one word , it would be ' uninvolving ' . If I had two words to describe the film it would have to be ' muddled mess ' But however I choose to describe it , the outcome is the same . Save your money , save your time . I knew who the killer was in record time , but it would've been better if Charles Dutton was the murderer , you know . . art imitating life and what not . DVD Extras : 8 deleted scenes ; Interviews with Robert Patrick , Kris Kristofferson , Charles Dutton , Polly Draper , Robert Prosky , Charles Fulford , Angela Alvarado Rosa , Jeffrey Wrigh , and Courtney B . Vance ; and Theatrical trailer
Hulk smash puny sub-par metaphysical movie	I'm not going into the plot for this one , everyone knows the basic idea , so i'll go right into my feelings of the movie . Perhaps Ang Lee wasn't the best choice for this film . When one goes to see a Hulk movie , they want high action and massive destruction , not a highly dramatic snooze-fest for most of the movie only to give some little fan service towards the end of the film . To say I was let down from the film is a bit of an understatement , the film is just NOT true to the characters in the least , especially the ending fight , which is so absurd , so confusing , and so utterly contemptible toward the comic that it's based on that I was itching to just get out of the theater ( actually I did leave , only to watch the film in full on DVD to give it a second chance ) Upon second viewing , did I like it more ? NOPE , not at all . Yes technically speaking it is a beautiful film on the surface , but it's totally bereft of a heart or any soul whatsoever . DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) commentary by Ang Lee ; Hulk Cam : Inside The Rage ( a series of 11 brief featurettes accessible via extended branching during the film ) ; " Superhero Revealed : Anatomy of the Hulk " featurette ; 6 deleted scenes with optional commentary by Ang Lee ; 2 Sunny D ads ( horrible ) ; Universal Mastercard ( TERRIBLE ) ; cast and crew bios ; and Trailers for " 2 fast 2 furious " , " Sinbad : Legend of the Seven Seas , he first Battlestar Galactica series , and " Bruce Almighty " ( all non-stoppable GRR ) Disc 2 ) Storyboards ; Artists bios and samples ; 16 minute evolution of the Hulk ; 14 minute piece on Ang Lee ; 10 minutes on how they did the hulk dog fight ; 5 minutes on editing ; and a 24 minute Making of featurette DVD-Rom : Wallpaper , Screensaver & Weblinks X-Box Exclusive : Play 1 level of The Hulk game ( the 2003 game , not the MUCH better Ultimate Destruction game that just came out )
Starts off well enough . . .	Being a huge fan of Mamet and thrillers in general , I had high hopes for this film , which DID start off well enough and managed to keep my interest all the way till roughly the halfway point . There it starts to gradually go downhill gaining downward momentum until it sputters to it's dull lifeless clichéd ending . Val Kilmer proves once again we he'll never be an A-list star . And the story turns out to be a convoluted mess . David your talent lies with tauntly scripted darkly comic character driven dramas ( Wag the Dog , Glengarry Glen Ross , etc . . . ) , not with action-thrillers . Stick to what you know , because whenever you try to branch out we all suffer ( ie . We're no Angels , State and Main , Hannibal , and this film )
From the Writers of " Van Wilder " & the Director of " the Animal " comes a movie that surprisingly didn't suck TOTAL ass	Matthew ( Emile Hirsch ) is a nerdy nobody who can't think of anything he'll fondly remember from high school after he graduates . That is until former porn star , Danielle ( " 24 " ' s Elisha Cuthbert ) shows up as the new girl next door . Things get complicated ( as these films are prone to do ) when her former porn manager comes calling to get her back . This adolescent male fantasy suffers from way too much music on the soundtrack ( nearly every scene of the film is scored with a late ' 80's or early ' 90's tune with the purpose to substitute for any true emotional feeling ) , a insincere undeserved sentimentality that permeates through the film , and a surprising lack of laughs . While the acting is fair enough and the film is watchable , it still lacks any memorability and will be forgotten after a while . Still , it remains a step up for the Director and writers , if a step down for much of the cast .
MAYBE Franco's best ( not saying much , tho )	Jimmy Logan ( James Darren of " Gidget " and TJ Hooker fame ) digs his horn back up ( which is deeply symbolic , trust me ) , then spots a dead woman . He seems to vaguely remember her and flashes back to when he first saw Wanda Reed . He jets to Rio in order to forget about how Wanda was raped and killed , only to find her inexplicably in Rio . The ending is no big surprise as Franco throws hint after hint at the viewer . " The Sixth Sense " this is NOT . However , this is Franco's most accessible and coherent film , while still maintaining the dream-like quality that can be found , albeit in varying degrees , in much of his other work . And while I hesitate to say this is Jess Franco's best film , it IS up there . All the actors give good performances and the film keeps you interested . Plus you get to see Manfred Mann in an ultra-rare movie cameo . But I NEVER want to hear that damn repetitive theme song ever again . DVD Extras : Interview with Jess Franco ; Audio interview with Maria Rohm ; poster and Still galleries ; and Theatrical Trailer Eye Candy : Maria Rohm gets topless on several occasions ; Margaret Lee shows her bum ; and various extras get topless
All right slasher film sadly saddled with a nonsense ending	A trio of boys that wish to deflower beautiful young high school girl , Mandy Lane ( Amber Heard , " Pineapple Express " ) invite her up , along with a few other girls , to one of their father's remote ranch for the weekend , unbeknownst to them a killer is also going to crash the party in this stylish , but ultimately perplexing teen slasher movie . The film doesn't deviate too much from the tried and true slasher path ( with all the pitfalls that that entails ) , however the characters are a tad better realized then most films if the ilk and it's well acted enough by the leads . I don't feel that I've waisted my time watching it . That's a plus . The identity of the killer ( and his / her true motivations in the end ) , however , is kind of stupid and threatens to derail the film . And indeed almost does , but not quite . Enough to bring the film down a grade though . Eye Candy : Whitney Able gets topless
I've seen a lot worse	A group of backpacking tourists are vacationing in Brazil . Their bus breaks down and they're greeted by some very unpleasant locals . Even though the acting wasn't up to par and the story was trite , unoriginal , and cliché , there was a few scenes that work for this movie . The Underwater cavern being the most obvious standout . I also really liked that the ending didn't go the extremely over-done route of leaving it open for a sequel ( which is , by the way , the MOST overused idea in all of Horrordom ) The movie doesn't stand up to multiple viewings at all . But it was a suitably enough rainy day time-waster . Not as bad as it you'd think . Eye Candy : Lucy Ramos shows T & A ; and Beau Garrett gets topless
The Wardrobe	In this 6 minute and 42 second short ( which can be found on the DVD of " Last House in the Woods " ) deals with a young child who can't sleep due to mysterious and spooky sounds emanating from his bedroom wardrobe . Curiosity gets the better of the still horribly frightened child and in order to avoid spoilers , I'll stop there . Suffice it to say , I found this short modestly well-crafted and it kept my interest for the scant running time even if the short doesn't really bother with loose ends or motivation . Giorgio Busi as the young boy gives a surprisingly adequate performance .
Disappointing follow up to " Batman : Dead End "	Sandy Collora , the guy who made the fan film " Batman : Dead End " returns with another one this time the short fan-film is packaged in much the same way " Grayson " was ( Ie . trailer for a non-existent movie ) While John Fiorella's " Grayson " worked marvelously for me , this one just didn't for some reason . Yea , Clark Bartram who reprises the role as Batman from " Dead End " was pretty good ( despite the costume not working quite as well in the direct light ) , but , Superman in this short just didn't worm for me and their was a tad too much banal banter . It has a few good shots , and Nina Kaczorowski DOES make a extremely hot Lois Lane , but the short as a whole just didn't sit well for me and wasn't as good as " Dead End "
could've been better	Slaughter Studios was left abandoned after an actor dies on the set of a movie decades back . In the present day , Steve , an aspiring director plans to break into the Studios before it gets demolished . An unseen maniac soon starts killing the unsuspecting crew . This film has the gore . It has the copious amounts of nudity . I just can't help to feel that it would have been better if it were played straighter with less insanely stupid comedy . As it is , I've seen much worse horror / comedies then this , trust me . Some of those said worse movies are used as stock footage in this one , by the way . DVD Extras : Commentary by Brian Katkin and Christopher Farrell ; Original Trailer ; Trailers for " Stalled " , " Shakedown " and " Lethal Force " Eye Candy : Serra Ellison , Eva Frajko , Lorissa McComas , and Laura Otis get topless ; Tara Killian does full body nudity
Mexican Sopranos = Mexicanos ?	Network TV trying to compete with HBO or even basic cable like FX . Miguel is the new family ' kingpin ' after the previous one dies and the next in line , his son , is killed . He must run the illegal business while trying to keep his 8 year-old son out of it . The FBI are looking to shut his operations down . Meanwhile Brian Benben as a plastic surgeon entangled with the ' family ' acts to much like Martin Tupper . Dranny Trejo in a bit part is one of the highlights . Anyone expecting this series that lasted 6 episodes to be a mini-series will be sadly disappointed by the lack of a real ending . And after 6 hours ( with commercials , less if you are watching the DVD set ) one can't help but feel somewhat ripped off . Especially when it takes a few episodes to really get going . It's not that Kingpin is necessarily bad , just that it's not really all the memorable . The Producer's cut on DVD is peppered with some nudity and cussing .
this film provoked a shrug and an eh	A young woman suffering from amnesia goes to a quack to help her remember . Meanwhile her new downstairs neighbor is growing a Tomie in a box . I'm sorry getting ahead of myself . Tomie is a supernatural demon girl who whenever she is killed resurrects himself . If her head is cut off . she resurrects into two Tomies , and so on and so forth . There's also a detecting investigating into murders and this Tomie demon girl who he knows cant die . Have no clue why everyone thinks the ending is confusing . I knew where it was headed as soon as they went into the whole thing of what Tomie does . I din ; t not like it for that reason though . I didn't like it because the characters are too one-dimensional and the film just coasts on and on with no real payoff to speak of . The song was cool that's about it . Competently made , but lifeless DVD Extras : Behind the scenes ; Trailers for the first 5 " Tomie " film
too many flashbacks spoil it	Hercules sits his kids down to tell them stories of his past , trying to recapture a little of his glory years . Yet deep inside he yearns to be going out on adventures . Michael Hurst is back as Iolaus , so it must be cause for celebration . right ? RIGHT ? ? ! ! ? Wrong . Half the story is flashbacks to the other previous TV movies , thus making this one a tad lame to sit through , but sit through I must since it leads up to the great TV series . The parts that new are good but the flashbacks kill it and make this the least engrossing of the TV movies . Pity as this was the one that came closet to capturing the feel of the subsequent TV series .
not the classic as it seems	Director Henri Pachard ( " Blame it on Ginger " , " Devil in Miss Jones 2 " ) and Writer Joel Bender ( of unsung B-movie urban warfare classic " Tenement " ) team up for this triple X rated film featuring Juliet Anderson and the legendary Ron Jeremy as con artists after a ultra-valuable diamond owned by a wealthy man , all coming to a head at an annual masquerade party . . An over reliance on crappy disco music almost sinks this one , yet the story is able to carry it . Even so this is far from a classic that the current rating that it's at suggests . The last scene IS pretty hot though , i'll give it that .
Well it's still the best live action movie from MTV films ( even if that's a dubious honor indeed )	Orange County native Shaun Brumder is a high school kid who wants desperately to go to Stanford to get away from the OC which he believes to be a detrimental environment unsuited for his writing abilities . After his guidance counselor sends in the wrong application causing him to be denied , he must take matters into his own hands to get in that school come hell or high water . There's a lot of things wrong with this film : It reeks of nepotism , with acting roles going to the son of Tom Hanks , daughter of Sissy Spacek , the Director being the son of Lawrence Kasdan . It also , like every other MTV project , relies way to often on ' flavor of the week ' music . And the storyline is pretty far from original . These three things are offset a tad by the great performance of Jack Black , however he's not given as much screen time needed to save this supremely mediocre production . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Jake Kasdan and Writer Mike White ; 4 Deleted Scenes ; 15 Promo Spots ; and Theatrical Trailer
the blood of these whores is killing me	In this companion piece to " Flesh for Frankenstein " , Udo Kier is Count Dracula . Desperately in need of virgin blood , he moves to Italy thinking virgins abound there . They find a family with 4 ' virgin ' daughters and it's up to the horrible actor Joe Dallesandro once again a servant to " save the day " . Almost everything I said in my review of " Flesh for Frankenstein " applies to this one as well . So i'll just jot down a cliff-notes version . Udo is the best part , Joe is the worst part , so bad it's good up to a part , yadda yadda yadda . . . These films seemed a lot better when I was a kid . Oh well , not everything is worth revisiting I guess . Image DVD Extras : Commentary by writer / director Paul Morrissey & actor Udo Kier ( the same one as the Criterion track ) ; Screen tests with commentary ; and Production stills with commentary
Well it is what it is	This film examines the quadruple murder deemed ' the Wonderland ' murders on the afternoon of July 1 , 1981 , that involved Porn star John Holmes ( Val Kilmer ) , Eddie Nash ( Erik Bogosian ) and others took part in that led to the deaths of Ron Launius ( John Lucas ) , Billy Deverell ( Tim Blake Nelson ) , Barbara Richardson ( Natasha Wagner ) and Joy Miller ( Janeane Garofalo ) . All the acting is pretty good and I was interested , but the flaw of the film that ultimately kills it is a lack of a real viewpoint relying on just he said / he said and leaves the viewer with nothing more to show for the involvement of the better part of 2 hours then what even those with a passable knowledge of the murder-case did before viewing it . Frankly I only bout the DVD to get the excellent ' Wadd : The Life and Times of John C . Holmes ' but since the 2-disc version is now out of print , don't buy the 1 disc one still on the market . It's only worthy of a rental . DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by Writer / Director James cox & Co-writer Captain Mauzner ; Interviews with Val Kilmer , Josh Lucas , Tim Blake Nelson , and Eric Bogosian ; 7 Deleted Scenes ; Court TV : ' Hollywood at Large ' snippet ; LAPD Crime scene video ; and Photo gallery Disc 2 ) the edited version of " WADD : The Life and Times of John C . Holmes " Easter Egg : Highlight the Lion's Gate Logo for a Promo for the soundtrack , Theatical Trailer the film , and trailer for " Pray for Rock and Roll " ( which looks TERRIBLE )
A middle of the road retrospective	This 28 minute & 20 second retrospective on " Blazing Saddles " can be found as an extra on the 30th Annivesery DVD Special Edition of the aforementioned movie . It features interviews with Director Mel Brooks , Writer Andrew Bergman , Producer Micheal Hertzberg , actors Harvey Korman , Gene Wilder , Burton Gilliam . It goes into the the beginnings of how the movie was made and re-written , some remembrances of the film , and how the film tore racism apart ( in that aspect this retrospective does get a little tiresome though ) It also features TV outtakes . All in all , it's alright , but not exactly the most definitive piece on the subject .
it gets derailed on its way to the third act	When Medical student Paula Henning ( Franka Potente , of " Run Lola Run " fame " ) wins a highly coveted scholarship , she's understandable enthused . But strange experiments are being done on live sedated bodies somewhere on the premises . When she recognizes a corpse as the boy she met on the train there , she decides to snoop around . What starts of as a reasonably captivating little thriller derails completely by the third act and becomes a carbon copy of any other slasher film made , which is a shame as if the film just stayed on target , it would've been something special , as the acting was good into then and the camera-work was pretty good throughout . DVD Extras : Commentary with director Stefan Ruzowitzky ; 2 Deleted scenes with commentary by director Stefan Ruzowitzky ; Anna Loos - My Truth ( music video ) ; 2 & a half minute Make-up featurette ; barely 5 minute Making-of featurette ; Talent files ; Production photos ; Storyboard comparisons ; Dubbed Teaser & Theatrical trailers ; and Trailers for " Circus " ( 2000 ) & " Run , Lola , Run "
one of the better of the " 8 films to snooze to "	A group of friends coming back from Mardi Gras in New Orleans suffer through a car accident on route 53 . An ambulance shows up and takes them all to Mercy Hospital ( which is anything but ) where they meet the unorthodox doctor Benway ( Robert Patrick , ' the Unit & T2 ) , a nurse with a terrible bedside manner ( Jenette Goldstein , Near Dark & also T2 ) and two orderlies who do most of the grislier work . This slasher film , while much better then the only previous ' 8 films to Die For ' movies ( the abysmal " the Broken " ) was not without it's own problems . The film moves at a steady clip when it gets going and some of the gore is impressive . But it's also quite predictable , has a clichéd storyline and under-developed characters . The actors all did a fairly good job , yet I didn't really care about any of them . I will concede that it's better than the previous films that Gierash & Anderson have worked on , although they've been ( partly ) responsible for Mother of Tears , Toolbox Murders , & Mortuary . So the fact that it's better is no mean feat . Lionsgate DVD Extras : Audio commentary with Adam Gierash , Even Katz , Jace Anderson , Ross McCall and Jessica Horowitz ; Behind the scenes of the operating room featurette ( 20 minutes ) ; Miss Horrorfest Web-isodes ( running 58 lame minutes in total ) ; an alternative ending ; a combo trailer for the 8 films to die for 3 ; and trailers for " A Haunting in Connecticut " , " Crank 2 " , " Punisher : War Zone " , " the Transporter 3 " , " Weapons " , " Midnight Meat Train " , & " Saw 5 "
Hunted is OK , but shouldn't be anything sought after	Del Toro is Aaron Hallam , a Kosovo vet , who loses it killing civilians upon his return stateside . He is soon caught . Tommy Lee Jones is L . T . Bonham , the man who trained Hallam is tasked with capturing him after he escapes from custody . Thus begins a cat and mouse game akin to " First Blood " in spirit if not in brilliance of execution . I guess that this movie was OK , but not really that memorable . Some tense scenes are overshadowed by glaring plot holes and a strong case of Deja vu . Friedkin's previous " Rules of Engagement " was MUCH better . DVD Extras : Commentary by William Friedkin ; 4 featurettes ( Pursuing , Filming , Tracking the Hunted , and the Cutting Edge ) ; 6 Deleted scenes ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Timeline " , " The Core " , and " The Indiana Jones Boxset "
What has he done to Solange ?	Dr . Arrowsmith ( Paul Muller ) kills his unfaithful wife ( Barbara Steel ) and her lover . Years later , the doctor's new wife ( Barbara Steel again ) starts having nightmares that seem to be related , but she may just be mentally unstable . The doctor also keeps his mistress Solange eternally youthful through blood infusion experimentation . This is a pretty average melodramatic thriller and while Barbara Steel is ( or was rather ) a great genre actress this film isn't among her best . A healthy air of tension sadly can't lift it above the trite predictable storyline . DVD Extras : Uncut version ; and Barbara Steele still gallery
the movie that convinced me just HOW good " Manhunter " really was	Forced into early retirement due to injuries sustained by Hannibal Lecter ( Anthony Hopkins in his third go around with the role ) when he started to get suspicious of Lecter , now Will Graham is called back in to do what he can to catch a vicious serial killed dubbed ' The Tooth Fairy ' , but he finds that in order to solve this one he must seek help from the good Doctor who had put him out of commission all those years before . This being a remake ( no matter how needless it was ) . It put me in the uncomfortable position of comparing Anthony Hokins and Brian Cox from the original ) I had been able to go years without having to decide who I liked more . I told myself that they each took a different angle to the role and " Silence of the Lamb's and " Hannible " were different animals entirely to " Manhunter " . However now I feel that I have to take a side once and for all . You hold this against " Manhunter " and Brian Cox's brilliant performance wins hands down ( Hopkins being a rather close second ) . With that out of the way , so this Lecter isn't as good . Hopefully the story is enthralling . Well no , not really the story never really gets off the ground . And although the acting is great by all involved , it just felt like the characters were doing what was needed and nothing more to get from point A to B to C . The film IS a big step up from the horrid " Hannibal " , just not anything I'd watch again soon . Perhaps Brett Ratner wasn't the right man for the job . Eye Candy : Marguerite MacIntyre gets topless ( now that's what I call DEAD sexy ) My Grade C+2-disc Special Edition DVD Extras : Commentary with director Brett Ratner and writer Ted Tally ; Musical score commentary with composer Danny Elfman ; 2 featurettes ( Inside The Mind Of A Serial Killer & Anthony Hopkins : Lector And Me ; a 14 minute Making Of ; 7 deleted , 4 alternate & 3 extended scenes with optional commentary ; " Hannibal Lector's FBI Case File And Life History " notes ; Production notes ; Cast & crew biographies ; and trailer for " The Hulk " Disc 2 ) A 40 minute Making Of Red Dragon documentary ; Featurettes on Visual Effects , Screen And Film Tests , Makeup Application , The Burning Wheelchair , & The Leeds ' House Crime Scene ; Untitled short film by Brett Ratner ; Storyboards to final scene comparisons ; Teaser & Theatrical trailers
granted Juliette IS hot	A ' slice of life ' of a web-porn star who acts like so has it all together . She juggles a career in porn , caring for her Parkinson stricken father , and later a side job as a sex investigator . Why oh why is this film getting praised ? ? It's OK , but nothing special . I really do think all the people who absolutely fawn over this film are blinded by Juliette Marquis's beauty ( I admit she IS stunning ) , but that is hardly enough to life this made for cable flick up from the mediocrity of being merely average . . James Woods is pretty much always great , however here he's a bit wasted . And to top it all off it get SO bad towards the end . Eye Candy : Sung Hi Lee shows breasts ; both Cheyenne Silver and Juliette Marquis shows boobs , bush , and buns For the ladies : 5 peni ( the plural of penis )
Bulldog bonanza	Sylvester cat is adamant about catching and eating Tweety Bird , but there's a catch Tweety has been bought by Granny who has countless vicious bulldogs in her fenced yard . The usual hijinx ensue . This is good only because of Sylevester as I detest that everything about that damned speech impediment singing Tweety bird and the Granny . This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and also features an optional commentary by Greg Ford that is infinitely better than the actual cartoon that it comments on . I'm really getting tired of having to review Tweety cartoons .
third time lacks the charm	Little Howard Phillips watches his sister get killed by one of Dr . Herbert West's re-animated experiments . Now thirteen years later , Howard now a doctor himself meets Dr . West again in the prison he's being held in . Dr . Phillips is endlessly intrigued by West's ability to re-animate corpses . So now both man continue his experiments once more . But when a investigative journalist , Laura , whom Howard was having an affair with is killed and they take it upon themselves to bring her back using the re-animation formula with an addition of NEE , which is discharged from the brain at the moment of death , the feces really hits the fan . This third film in the series is OK , Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West still delights , but the absence of Bruce Abbot as his collaborator / foil , Dan Cain , is sorely missed . Tommy Musset just can't compare and the film lacks the sheer manic energy of the original or even " Bride " Eye Candy : Elsa Pataky shows very brief left nip ; Raquel Gribler shows better boobage DVD Extras : Commentary by director Brian Yuzna ; a 17 minute and 16 second Making of ; Music Video by Dr . Re-Animator , " Move your dead bones , bones , bones ! " ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Cabin Fever " & " Faust : Love of the Damned " Gripes : Why is USA the only nation NOT to release this unrated ? ? ?
simply average , good bits about Oliver Reed though	This 13 and a half minute Gary Hertz directed featurette is spoiler heavy so I'd advise you watch it AFTER you watch the movie proper . It features Director Sergio Sollima and actor Fabio Testi , they each reflect on the late Oliver Reed , Ennio Morricone , and their respective remembrance of the film in general . This featurette was merely OK , nothing special nor anything bad . Personally , my favorite part was the remembrance of Oliver Reed as I'm fascinated by the late great actor . At 13 and a half minutes the featurette is one of the shorter so I'd recommend at least one viewing of it after you watch " Revolver "
too much gab between bouts	When you have sexy totally nude women ( except for boots , and OK so they're not that sexy , but they're OK looking ) , Carmen Elektra , and Jimmy Hart , how can you possibly go wrong ? Why with the lamest unfunny jokes and the most stupidly inane pre and post fight interviews of course . This would have been infinitely better if they ditched everything but the actual naked wrestling , What it ends up as being is good filler for a keg party , when it's playing in the background , but if you choose to watch it alone then you're pretty sad indeed . Worst gimmick : Demonika Disco , Harriet Bush , Becky . . . OK you got me all the gimmicks are pretty bad and I could write better stuff in my sleep . just play this at a party , with the sound off and fast forward through the in between bouts filler and you'll be fine
passable entertainment , but genius compared to other Sci-Fi Originals	When archaeologist Matt Fletcher ( Casper Van Dien of Starship Troopers ) finds a mummified giant from the biblical age , he bites off more than he can chew as he & his crew are soon beset by both cult members who worship this thing as well as the giant's father , a fallen angel who hopes to resurrect him . Now it's up to Matt , Angela & Rabbi Schmidtt ( Tom Bosley ? ? ! ! ? ) to stop both factions and their evil plans . This was one of the better Sci-fi Originals films that I've seen and I found that it moved at a brisk pace ( for the most part , there are some lulls in action here and there ) The film is heavily cheesy , but thats kind of part of it's charm . All the actors work well for the type of film that it is . Especially the always entertaining B-movie mainstay Irwin Keyes as a member of the cult .
Squint heard enough and you'll find passable entertainment	Cynical Father Anton Jonascu ( Len Cariou ) while giving food to the homeless with fellow more optimistic Father John Royce is attacked when the police ambush the community homeless shantytown . While he's on the ground reeling from the pummeling , he looks up at the police officer and sees a demon . Now losing his faith in God , diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor , and seeing hell-spawn , he's on the road to find answers to various questions he has . However not everyone he encounters can or should be trusted in this David Schow written episode . This was an alright episode , if utterly predictable , But for as for as David's written stuff for the visual medium goes , this is among his better efforts . and I cringe when I think of Texas chainsaw massacre 3 , TCM : the Beginning , Critters 3 & 4 , and the atrocious We all scream for Ice Cream . So the fact that this episode is simply OK is indeed cause to rejoice .
not a good filler to laugh ratio , but die hard fans of the show will lap it up	Bookended by new animation to fill time ( as it's not really funny ) , these 3 un-aired episodes of Family Guy revolve around Stewie and his attempts to find his real father , whom he believes to be a man he sees on TV . The man ends up being Stewie himself from the future just on a vacation to his past and winds up taking young Stewie back to the future with him by accident . But when young Stewie sees what a loser his older self turns out to be he resolves himself to getting his life back on track . Just like the " Family Guy " series ever since it's been brought back , it has some funny moments , but just can't seem to hold a candle to any of the shows in the original 3 seasons of the show . It just tries too hard to be funnier than it is and here's just too much filler for my liking to wade through for the sadly infrequent ( but still there ) bouts of hilarious bits .
a poor man's Cape Fear	A recently released rapist stalks the defense attorney that wronged him in this poor mans ' Cape Fear , as it features acting that can't even rival the first one in the least . Robert DeNiro , usually a VERY capable actor plays Max Cady as so clownish and over-the-top ANY true suspense evaporates like so much cigar smoke Robert Mitchum made a much more fitting Cady . Same with Nick Nolte's slicker , but not as fully realized as Gregory Peck's original Sam Bowden . Don't even get me started on Juliette ' Willing to go down on the director as I have absolutely NO talent whatsoever ' Lewis . The one thing this version has going for it is that there's more of a reason for Max Cady to want vengeance against Sam Bowden in this one , but that's not enough to overlook that this version is extremely inferior . Especially when this version is devoid of any soul or emotion other then hatred and cruelty , no matter of slickness and sheen the film can polish itself with can ultimately overcome that . It's not a bad movie ( well the end is ) , just pales greatly to the original . 2-Disk DVD Extras : 80 minute Making Of documentary ; 9 minute , 14 seconds of Deleted Scenes ; Behind The Scenes Of The Fouth Of July Parade ; On The Set Of The Houseboat ; Photograph Montage ; Matte Paintings ; Opening Credits ; and Theatrical Trailer DVD-Rom : Script to screen comparisons
The Last Horror Movie is Julian Richard's best movie thus far	Kevin Howarth ( who horror genre fans should remember from " Razor Blade Smile " ) does a pretty bang-up job playing Max , a psychopath who uses the tool of video to record his violent episodes in this Julian Richards written and directed film ( which too it's credit is FAR from horrible ) . I was supposed to see this film last year at the Philly Film Fest , looking back on that in retrospect , I'm glad that something came up , and didn't attend the screening . Not that it's a bad movie mind you . Quite the opposite is the case as I enjoyed it . Just that it works so much better on the small screen with one or two viewers as opposed to the big screen with a vastly bigger crowd . The film itself hearkens back to both Remy Belvaux's " Man Bites dog " and John McNaughton's " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " , alas not being as morbidly hilarious as the former , nor as darkly terrifying as the latter . That said it is a fairly solid film-watching experience that should be had at least once by any fan of the horror genre . DVD Extras : Commentary by Julian Richands and Kevin Howarth ; 4 deleted scenes ; Making of featurette ; Cast auditions ; a bonus short " The Shoe Collector " ; and trailers for " Corn " , " Gypsy ' 83 " , and " Virgin "
Jason's rampage begins	After a long unneeded recap of Part 1 , a group of camp counselors , Stu Chano , the most goofy looking kid I've seen since " Hardbodies " among them , attend a camp NEXT to Camp Crystal Lake despite the ravings of Crazy Ralph . Jason avenging his now deceased mother dispatches them one by one after tying up some loose ends from the first film . This sequel while still being a fairly solid Friday the 13th film , never manages to be as good as the original thanks to the overwhelming feeling of deja-vu . Eye Candy : Kirsten Baker shows all Ongoing Jason Bodycount : 10 people , one dog
was an old dirty joke even when the movie was released	Anthony Browning spies three beauties bathing nude through a hole in the fence . He propositions them for sex which they agree to for money on one condition that he does it through the hole in the fence . He readily agrees , which leads to the most humorous piece of the entire short , when he sticks his hand through the hole to feel each girls snatch to see which one he want , pulling it back and smelling has fingers after each one . The expression on his face is just plain funny . The short goes downhill from here as the girls trick him with the use of a goat and later by feigning pregnancy to get more money from the poor goober . I saw the film in 1970's " A History of the Blue Movie " which showed it in uncut form .
simply passable	Jet Li is Kit Li , a man who after his wife is killed by a terrorist with the moniker of ' The Doctor ' , finds himself working for Frankie Lone , the drunk action star who doesn't do his own stunts ( Jacky Cheung lampooning Jackie Chan ) . When they find themselves at the mercy of the Doctor and his goons once again , this time after priceless diamonds , it's up to everyone to do their part to foil the terrorists evil plans . Like a Chinese Die Hard , this film lacks the spirit that made the Bruce Willis action extravaganza such a classic . The humor falls flat , and granted some of the action stunts and martial arts work , there's not enough of the latter , and only a few nice set pieces of the former ( the helicopter scene is the only one that sticks out in my mind ) . The version I watched is missing some footage , I hear , but I doubt it would have made the film better really . As it is you get a simply passable film , with a hopelessly derivative storyline . DVD Extras : Talent files ; Photo gallery with Jet Li trivia ; Theatrical trailer ; and Trailers for " Once Upon a Time in China " 1-3 , " Red Dragon " , " Gorgeous " , & " the Prisoner "
Almost like this film is saying " stop rape . . . Consent "	A girl doesn't give " respect " to a guy , so he and his friends follow her and her friends home and rapes them , which after a while the girls seem to love and this one scene goes on forever . A year later , the girls plan to kill them . Not before having another VERY long scene of screwing them . NOT a feminist film in ANY way , shape , or form , It seemingly is made to provide sickos with rape-fantasies either an outlet or to further deteriorate their sick and twisted minds to go out to rape for themselves . So why did I subject myself to this pathetic rape-fantasy filth ? One reason and one reason only , Christy Canyon is one of my favorite porn stars of ALL time . My Porn Grade :
it's alright , but what it's all about ? No clue	NYPD detective Peter J . Nicholas ( Tony Lo Bianco of " the Honeymoon Killers " , and " The French Connection " ) is a religious man who undergoes a crises of faith while he's working on a series of homicides that're all linked by the killers saying that god told them to do it . Before long the film turns into an extremely convoluted one which I still am not 100 % positive that I know was going on . Plot-lines fall by the wayside for good stretches of the film only to resurface later every which where . I have no clue why I liked this film , or even if I did like it or not . It seems to be put together in such a haphazard way , but at the same time it's still one of Cohen's better films . It might very well be a precursor to " Frailty " , but who the hell knows . I also listened to the Commentary and I'm still baffled . Eye Candy : Sherry Steiner as a young Mrs . Phillips is fully nude ; Vida Taylor as a young Miss Mullens shows tits Blue Underground DVD Extras : Commentary by director / writer Larry Cohen and Blue Underground's William Lustig ; Poster & Still Gallery ; Larry Cohen biography ; 7 TV Spots ; and Theatrical trailer Easter egg : In the main menu , highlight the word " god " for a little more then 8 minutes of highlights from a 2002 appearance of Larry Cohen . .
a good short about pathetic people	Jim Van Bebber's short about the true life story Gary Lauwers murder by Ricky Kasso . In the film Ricky ( Van Bebber once again ) is a devil worshiping drug dealing loser . But because he supplies acid to his " friends " , he's the head of his particular group of equally feeble minded people . When Ricky feels Gary stole drugs from him , he along with another member of his crew kill him in a horrific , unsettling manner . I found this film to be a tad unsettling and pretty well put together for an amateur effort . I wish I''d have seen " Ricky 6 : , so I could compare the two , but alas that film still alludes me . This 19 minute short film can be found on Side B of the Synapse Special edition DVD of " Deadbeat at Dawn " . One interesting side note , I've found is the real life Ricky supposedly spent some time with his friends at the real life Amityville House . Now that's bizarre .
Good acting , but predictable story	Christian Bale is Jim Davis , a crazy-eyed Gulf War vet wanna-be Mexican gangster thug living in South Cental partying it up with his best friend Mike ( Freddy Rodriguez ) while Mike's put-upon girlfriend . , Sylvia ( Desperate Housewife's Eva Longoria ) thinks they're looking for jobs . This tale of two friends who don't want to grow up is a slow burner if I ever saw one . Worth watching at least once due to Bale's mesmerizing performance , but from the first minute of the film when we learn of his past in Iraq , we know where the film's headed as well as the fates of it's characters ( war vets are almost always crazy , in the eyes of Hollywood ) , And as such all the tension that could've been in the film is thus removed , leaving the movie to live or die strictly on the power of the respective actors alone . I'll admit before going into the film I was a tad skeptical that Bale could pull of the ' ghetto talk ' his character spouts out for the duration of the film , but he pulls it off quite well . It IS a very well acted film , but at 2 hours the film seems to be content just puttering along at points . And it has a decidedly anti-military feel to it that may put off a lot of people . Those expecting another " Training Day " would be well advised to look elsewhere . DVD extras : Commentary by David Ayers ; 7 deleted scenes ; 5 TV spots for the film ; the movie's theatrical trailer ; and Trailers for the remake of " Black Christmas " , & " School for Scoundrels " , " ( also one of the fu & % ing lame Truth ads that are such a waste of time )
Testing is a double-edged sword	I'm of two minds in regards to test audience screenings . On one hand they can screw up the writer's script . In the case of Final Destination , however , it did seem to help because the new ending was so very good . I just don't like the idea of having people who might have the combined IQ of a garden variety housefly dictating what any given movie should or should not be . But then again perhaps there are times that a writer needs to learn to divorce one's self from the words that he or she has written . But I digress . I find this featurette interesting enough . This quarter of an hour long featurette can be found on the DVD of " Final Destination "
The trilogy ends not with a bang , but a whimper	In the last of a trilogy , Riki Takeuchi and Sho Aikawa are once again on the opposite ends of the spectrum , as they were in the first DOA , after being the best of friends in the second one . Riki is a cop searching for his son being held by a gang whom drifter Sho is a part of . Even though , if you think about it and put yourself in Miike's flow of logic , this ending film is inevitable in it's actions , it's still the less of the three . Of course no Takashi Miike film is totally without merit and such is the case here . There are a few setpeices that make it worthwhile , but the poetry I usually find in a Miike film is not found here ( at least in the amounts that I usually expect from this director )
Americal Beauty redux with diminishing effect	Being a Nicolas Cage fan means you have to take the good with the bad , your " Adaptation . " with you " Amos & Andrew , your " Leaving Las Vegas " with your " Snake Eyes " . It means your " Mathstick Men " with your " Weather Man " . But god bless the guy to even be so magnetic and such a great actor that he's the brightest thing ( not exactly true as Michael Caine is great as well , but that's pretty much a given ) about such a shoddy , half-baked , film about a weatherman forced to decide where his loyalties lie : With his personal or professional life . This is a very slow and internally monologued film , which is of itself , doesn't automatically translate into a bad film , because much of said dialog feels honest . However the fact of the matter is it plays out like barely warmed over second-rate " American Beauty " of " Life as A House " . Now undoubtedly these niche films do have an audience , but they all have one common fatal flaw that some may choose to overlook in lieu of ' the Big Picture ' , and that flaw is with the cracker-jack " heartfelt " cheapened sentimentality , or rather lack there of . That being said this does feel a bit more honest than either of those two previously mentioned films . And I fully expect to get some negative feedback purely out of vendetta against me for scoring this picture low ( which is the basic flaw in that IMDb system ) , but I have to speak my mind and perhaps convince someone to save their hard earned money for something more worthwhile . Is this film rental worthy ? Perhaps if you're in the depressed and narcissistic vain mode that most of the characters in the movie are . Is it one to see in the theater ? Absolutely not .
Foley ( no not Axel )	This 7 minute featurette on the sound effects of " Men in Black 2 " can be found on the second disc of the 2-DVD special edition of the aforementioned movie . I was very interested in meeting the Foleys and the interesting ways they make the sound effects . It just seems like a very cool job , but i'm sure like every other job out there that it gets old after doing it for years and years . And they probably believe the their jobs are so very important . Poor deluded fools hahaha ! ! But I digress it does make for a pretty fun and informative featurette and hands down the best extra to be found on the second disc of this DVD set .
not the sum of its parts	Led to believe that Ron Jeremy , Stan Lee & Debbie Rochon were in this ( they're in the Troma re-edit , but not the version that I saw via Netflix on the xbox 360 ) , I decided to give this one a go . It's about Elle ( Cecilia Bergqvist ) and how she gets taken hostage one day by a failed bank robber who holes up in her house while the police ( one of which is Troma's Lloyd Kaufman , always energetic ) . have the place surrounded . he hostage is far from helpless though and has a few plans up her sleeve to turn the tables . Part cop drama / part slasher / part zombie movie , this film is all over the place and as such never truly decides what it wants to be . It's a schizophrenic experience , yet not one without merit ( little as it may be ) There are some parts that shine , but the film as a whole lacks a cohesiveness to make it a good film sadly . Eye Candy : Cecilia Bergqvist gets topless at length multiple times
cop-out ending	It's been a year since the events of ' the Sound of Drums ' and Martha is still traveling the world on her quest to defeat the Master , while the aged and beaten Doctor is still held captive by the Master as is Captain Jack . Haven taken over Earth , now the Master sets his eye upon Universal conquest and it's come down to Martha to stop him . An overall solid & chilling episode of Doctor , sadly Who severely negated by a BS cop-out ending that left an atrocious taste in my mouth . Sad really as the two previous parts to this particular story were topnotch . Oh well , on to next series I guess .
Acceptable , but the show still hadn't hit it's stride yet	In order to retrieve a cursed pen that has the power to make the written word into a reality , Ryan and Micki disguise themselves as monks and infiltrate the monastery where the pen and it's owner resides . This was one of the worser episodes of the show . It hasn't yet hit it's stride that it would in just a few episodes . Why Micki would be so skeptical about people who can tell the future , after she just battled a demonic doll is beyond me , as is how any red-blooded male would be fooled into thinking she was a guy . But those qualms aside the idea of the cursed item for this episode was intriguing even if there wasn't too much use made of it . Again I feel the need to reiterate that while Friday the 13 : the series was a very cool show , it didn't really hit the ground running that well , but in subsequent episodes it'll start to really shine . So stick with it .
a fun no-brainer	Jason Statam as FBI agent Jack Crawford is obsessed with finding the assassin who murdered his partner and partner's family and will do anything he can to find the mysterious Rouge ( Jet Li ) even while his family life is falling apart in this entertaining yet forgettable action romp helmed by rap video director Philip Atwell . While this film doesn't possess the emotion of Li's " Fearless " nor the breath-taking fight choreography as his " Kiss of the Dragon " ( or hell , the balls to the wall attitude of Statham's earlier " Crank " ) , it's still a pleasant enough diversion and the action as well as the charisma of the two main leads does make up quite a bit for a convoluted , clichéd storyline . I did like the film and everyone acted well enough ( save for Andrea Roth who got stuck with most of the more inane dialog , which is a shame as much as she's insufferable in this movie , I quite enjoy her in " Rescue Me " ) All in all entertaining , but highly forgettable action movie fluff . Eye Candy : Meghan Flather gets topless ; as do some extras in a club scene DVD Extras : Audio commentary by Director Philip Atwell ; second commentary with writers Lee Smith & Gregory Bradley ; audio trivia track ; 2 featurettes ( the action of war & Scoring war ) ; Gag reel ; 2 deleted and 1 extended scenes ; and trailers for " 3 : 10 to Yuma " , " Good Luck Chuck " ( which was atrocious by the way ) , " Saw 4 " , " Shattered " , " Crank "
would have been better without Mira	A hit-man who develops a conscience when he can't kill a cop because he's with his family when he attempts to , teams up with a female counterfeiter to stop the replacement hit men that were sent when the word got back that he couldn't finish the job . Why does Hollywood import foreign actors , just to put them in lousy movies ? Chow Yun Fat , Jet Li , etc . Actually as strictly a popcorn flick this would work . But putting Mira Sorvino in the film was a misstep . She is NOT , nor ever will be an action star . DVD Extras : Commentary by Antoine Fuqua ; Making-of featurette ; Chow Yun Fat goes Hollywood featurette ; 4 extended scenes ; 1 deleted scene ; Alternate ending ; Filmographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " the One " ( so bad ) , and " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " ( good )
Tom talks too much	Tom the cat tries to impress a girl cat by giving her Jerry the mouse and singing her a song . But she rebukes him for being to square . So he makes a makeshift home-made zoot suit and continues to woo her . This is one of the few shorts where Tom and to a little extent Jerry both talk . Whereas most Tom and Jerry cartoons are timeless , this one is dated and not as funny as normally . One of my less favorite shorts , it's still watchable though . This cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry " DVD Extras : Commentary by historian Jerry Beck where he talks about the animator , voice actress and the songs amongst other things .
The Farrelly Brothers without the gross-out gags just seems wrong somehow	Ben Wrightman ( Jimmy Fallon ) is an avid Red Sox fan who finds it hard to juggle his love of the Sox with his love for his new girlfriend , Lindsey ( Drew Barrymore ) . Not a real complicated or intricate storyline , true . But the film is pretty good . Granted , the chemistry between Drew and Fallon isn't particularly stellar ( although serviceable enough ) . The scenes with Barrymore alone with her friends are pretty much useless and I probably would've gotten so much more out of the film if I were a Sox fan . But the film did turn out to be a lot better than I expected . Don't get me wrong it's still my second least favorite Farrelly Brothers film ( Osmosis Jones being the worst ) , but I enjoyed it none the less . Where i saw it : HBO on Demand
average	Everyone is trying to talk Traci into marriage , but she's having none of that . She just wants to have as much fun as she can and then turn everyone into the cops when she turns . . oh never mind that's the real Traci , got carried away there . Anyway Traci's character doesn't want marriage and just wants fun . I truly don't know why this porn has such a high rating . Well I do know , but it's most likely for the wrong reasons . Not Traci Lord best film by a long shot , nor Christy Canyons ( that would be " Black Throat " for both of them ) . It's in all likelihood Honey Wilders , best one though , due to the fact that I hate the " Taboo " films . My Porn
Reminiscent of " Popcorn "	A group of friend , a biker couple , and a pair of off-duty policemen all take in a horror flick shot in the late 70's and not shown in decades due to it's connection to a sadist who performed some grisly murders at a run-down theater are trapped in said theater while the killer from the movie steps into reality and starts picking them off one by one . I couldn't find anything all that memorable about this film , on the other hand I couldn't really find anything major to gripe about either ( other than an ending that felt too rushed and a somewhat open-ended ending ) The acting is serviceable enough for a low-budget flick of it's ilk & it moved at a fairly good clip once the action got going . It's worth a watch if you have nothing better to do . Also there's a really short bumper after the credits , not anything huge mind you just a short 2 second throwaway scene , but some people want to know of any movie that has anything post-credits so I just thought I'd throw that out there . Eye Candy : Kathryn Aagesen gets topless DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Jack Messit ; 3 featurettes ( Creative team , Cast , & Storybond and VFX ) ; deleted scenes ; outtakes ; & three promotional trailers for this film
Speedy 101	This short three minute featurette , which can be found as an extra on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 . It's nothing more than a basic primer about the Speedy Gonzales , I'm thinking , with an eye geared for newbies to the classical Looney Tunes . It details the various standout cartoons that he stared in . This is really REALLY basic stuff ( the same can be said for pretty much all the other Behind the Toons feauterettes that are on Volume 1 , fortunately the Behind the Tune features would get so much better starting with the ones found on volume 2 ) .
Foghorn Leghorn 101	This short three minute featurette , which can be found as an extra on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 . It's nothing more than a basic primer about Foghorn Leghorn , I'm thinking , with an eye geared for newbies to the classical Looney Tunes . It details the various standout cartoons that he stared in . This is really REALLY basic stuff ( the same can be said for pretty much all the other Behind the Toons feauterettes that are on Volume 1 , fortunately the Behind the Tune features would get so much better starting with the ones found on volume 2 ) .
sorry , but it's a tad overpraised	I hate to burst anyone up there on Cloud 9 with the love for this short . But the simple fact of the matter is that this is just a slightly above average Looney Tune short . It's far more cute than it is funny and it's far indeed from Tex Avery's best work . Now that being said I do enjoy this short up to a point , but come on doesn't the Owl know another song ? I know Al certainly did . I have no clue why this Looney Tunes short above others seems to be praised to the high heavens . I'm sure someone will fill me in on something i'm missing though . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
your name doesn't have to be Earl to see Jaime topless	Well I watched and reviewed the first two films in this series , so I figured what the hell , I'll just finish the trilogy up . Jaime Pressly stars as Violent , a teenage vixen who feeling betrayed that her mother ( who was also this family's maid ) was fired for having an affair with the father , a decade or so later decides to move in with the family who ' wronged ' her mom and proceeds to use her best asset , her body , to get revenge . Is this film good in a conventional sense ? Nope . Artistically ? Haha not at all . In fact the only true reason to see this is Jaime Pressley herself , who ups the T7A quotient exponentially . Eye Candy : Athena Massey gets topless once ; Jaime Pressly shows hers multiple times and her ass once . Where i saw it : Thriller Max
Expected more , but it's serviceable enough	Judd Nelson stars as Buck Taylor , a psychopath who picks his victims out of the telephone book . New LA detective Sam Dietz ( Leo Rossi ) and grizzled veteran Sam Malloy ( Robert Loggia ) are tasked with bringing him down in this thriller from Director William Lustig ( Maniac , Vigilante ) and writer Phil Robinson ( All of Me , Field of Dreams ) With the kind of pedigree and talent of those involved , I was expecting more of this film then what I got . I was hoping for a film that stood out from the vast myriad of serial killer films out there . What I got was more of the same and this film was as interchangeable with all the other average films of it's ilk . The only thing notable whatsoever about this movie was the fine performance that Judd Nelson gave , but it was totally unremarkable otherwise . Not really a bad film , merely one you'll feel like you've seen before . Eye Candy : Elizabeth Lambert gets topless DVD Extras : Trailers for " Trapped " , " Panic Room " , & " Secret Window "
Sylvester and a monkey steal the show	This cartoon has Sylvester Cat , Tweety Bird , and a bulldog all snuck in a deluxe apartment building where no pets are aloud . They have to avoid the manager while chasing each other around . I'm not the biggest Tweety bird fan , I thought at one point he may have been tolerable , but I got over that fast . I'm sorry , I did give him so many chances to change my mind , but Nada . The biggest laughs come from Sylvester and the bulldog ( ok and Tweety in ONE instance when they dress up like one old woman ) This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
total carnage	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Black XXX-mas " runs about 11 minutes ( 9 and a half excluding credits ) and is a urban updating of Little Red Riding Hood emphasis on the Hood part . If you're looking for an intricate plot , or any cohesive plot at all you'll be disappointed . This is all about mindless carnage , with a day in the life of a black thief Santa and his hot daughter Little Red . It's nothing that'll make you think , but it is interesting . . . up to a point when it just gets weird . I mean " Twin Peaks " weird . Not the first season , the Second . Now multiply the second season of " Twin Peaks " by like 10 and you'll be around the ballpark . Massive amounts of blood and full frontal nudity make this fairy tale one that's not for the kiddies . Eye Candy : Kimberly gets completely nude
Supringly watchable sequel to an awful movie	If you haven't seen the first Gingerdead Man film ( trust me you didn't miss much ) , you needn't worry the entire thing is recapped in the first few minutes or so of this one . Nope Gary Busey isn't in this one , but he isn't missed much as the Gingerbread man is pretty much a background character in this movie , most of the story is on the satire of the happenings of a Full Moon-esquire studio . Filled with in-jokes and b-movie mainstays both in front and beyond the camera sending themselves up , this film was indeed a cut above the previous one and my preferred film starring the Gingerbread Man of the three that he's been in ( he made a cameo in " Evil Bong " as well ) DVD Extras : A promo for Full Moon website ; Trailer for this movie ; and trailers for " Dangerous worry dolls " , " Evil Bong " , & " Decadent Evil 2 "
a quirky little enjoyable film	John ( Jon Favreau ) , a failing out of work actor , hesitantly agrees to transport a mysterious blue suitcase , contents unknown , into the remote desert and deliver it to a mysterious person only known as Cowboy in order to wipe his tremendous debt that he's in . By taking the job he doesn't realize that he's in far the weirdest events n his life ( including but not limited to , a femme fatale , her crazy jealous boyfriend , Kelsey Grammar as a FBI guy investigating a beheading , and more ) in this quirky little subtle comedy that's reminiscent of David Lynch's " Twin Peaks " with a bit of " X-files " thrown in , but not as dark as the former , nor as complex and involved as the latter . Any film that Jon Favreau seems to star in I enjoy ( well except for a small handful that I actively detest , but none because of him ) and while this film is not as great as his other dark comedies that he's starred in ( Very Bad Things and Made ) , it's still perfectly serviceable , with fine performances and is a pretty good first time effort by Director Steve Anderson . Even if it loses some steam towards the end ( and I still can't divorce Kelsey Grammar with his " Frasier " character , no matter how hard I try )
insubstantial , but Englund IS a good talker	What's one to do when One's featurette time is longer then the screen time that one gets in the actual movie . In the case of Robert Englund who has a bit part in " Dead and Buried " , he talks about " Eaten Alive " , his fellow actors , his crush on Lisa Blount and her gothicness , how he really wanted to be the Courener , Stan Winston , how he drew inspiration form Stephen King's " Salem's Lot " , and how he wants an original poster of the movie . Pretty insubstantial stuff , but Englung does know how to be engaging , so I enjoyed it . This 12 minute featurette can be found on Blue Underground's Limited Edition DVD of " Dead and Buried "
doesn't really suit Foghorn	Foghorn Leghorn has to help the self confidence of an unattractive hen , but when the egg hatches it's a rooster , whom Foghorn fears will take him job one day . So he sets out to get rid of it . I'm a fan of Foghorn Leghorn , but this is one of his lesser outings and feels more like a Bugs Bunny / Elmer Fudd short , which is fine for those characters , but doesn't really jibe well with this one . Oh well , they can't all be clear cut winners . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 and also has an optional music only track .
even an above average Bugs short for McKimson means a below standard one for everyone else	Th Easter Bunny comes down with a bout of the sickness so Bugs Bunny ( no relation ) offers to deliver the eggs to an ungrateful brat of a kid , as well as Elmer Fudd in disguise . As those who know me can attest to , I'm not a big fan of McKimson directed Bugs shorts ( to put it mildly ( And for good reason as most of said shorts were sub-par and not nearly as good as any of the rest of the Bugs cartoons . I would've been happy if McKimson just stayed making Foghorn Leghorn films , but being a Looney Tunes fad , it's just a sad matter of life that you'll going to have to sit through these sooner or later . For a Mckimson short it's good but it's still nothing compared to other non-McKimson directed ones . This animated short can be found on Disk 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 set .
always fascinating to hear Tom talk	This 10 minute featurette can be found on Blue Underground's DVD release of " Deathdream " , in it Tom Savani talks about the legendary make-up artist Dick Smith . As well as talking about his past work beginning with his first job as Dracula in a children's play , his experiences in Vietnam , his dealings with Forrest Carpenter and Alan Ormsby , his experiences on " Deathdream " , the other cast and crew members , and also his work on " Deranged " and " Martin " . It's not that informative , but it's always a treat to hear Mr . Savini talk as he's a pretty interesting guy .
the un-ghost story ghost story	Less a ghost story , then a quietly chilling character study , this Korien film about Sun-yeong , a young taxi driver who move into room 504 of a dilapidated , run-down apartment building , where two tragedies have occurred , one thirty years in the past , the other much more recent ( the previous owner committed suicide ) , and befriending an elderly writer as well as a abused middle aged woman , survives on the psychological horror , great cinematography , and good characterization , more than outright scares and gore . More for the intellectual art-house crowd than those interested in ' J-horror ' . And while one can surely see where the film is going , you still find your breath tightening when you get there . Not a film for everyone , but I liked it well enough for what it is and didn't view it expecting it to be what is isn't .
falls short of Clampett's usual greatness	A swinging hep cat is trying to make it with a cute female cat but a dog is in the way at every step . When I usually think of the name Robert Clampett , the word that automatically comes to mind is " sheer greatness " , which only makes this short all the more disappointing . In fact if I didn't read the title screen I would've had to no clue he even made this short . In other Clampett cartoons you can come in at any point and sit down to watch and KNOW he made that given short . His hand in it was usually that great . Sadly , this one I don't like nearly as much as it's not a good barometer of his major talents . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
Lukewarm campers	When the strict camp director of Camp Bleeding Dove ( Peter Stormare of " Fargo " and " the Big Lebowski " ) gets electrocuted , the group of freshman camp counselors ( including Jamie King of " Sin City " , in her first role , and yes she gets topless ) have to run the summer camp by themselves . Because of their personalities , they start to clash with each other . The Movie was funny in parts , but I think I was expecting more from Daniel Waters , I mean the cat gave us Heathers , Ford Fairlane , and Demolition Man . Not to say this is a bad movie in the least , just that it's sadly mediocre in every way . Eye Candy : Jamie King goes topless
lesser Sollima film , lesser Bronson movie , but still entertaining enough	After the highly entertaining Run , Man , Run , writer / Director Sergio Sollima returned with this satisfying , if not all successful , tale of a hit-man , Jeff , who gained a conscience ( Charles Bronson ) and his quest to find the people who've double-crossed him and had him thrown in jail ( and almost killed ) . Mrs . Bronson , Jill Ireland , is on hand as the conniving girlfriend who along with local mafioso boss , Weber ( Telly Savalas ) play him for a patsy . Entertaining enough and the re-added minutes of footage in the Anchor Bay released DVD of this is very welcome . Any fellow Bronson appreciator will find nothing to complain about with this one , and Jill ( it very well could be a body double though ) supplies the T & A content quite nicely ( and multiple times ) . Fans of the director will be slightly off-put as this isn't as good as his films that came directly before ( Run , Man , Run , The Big Gundown , Face to Face ) , nor after ( Revolver ) all of which are highly recommended by me by the way . However this is still a welcome enough diversion .
competently made	Frankie and Donnie live in seclusion in a small town where everyone seems to accept them if not trust them . Until a group of rebellious teenagers ( arn't they always ? ) get themselves in trouble . With the desire to remain spoiler-free I'll leave it at that . However , for a low-budget film I was surprised at how well the cinematography was and while the dialog wasn't anything amazing , that was above average for an indie horror film as well ( for the most part ) All in all a solid effort by first time Director , Jim McMahon . . . even if I might have had problems with the ending . Eye Candy : Shannon Laine gets topless
wails of approval	The Monty Python-esgue opening credit sequence somehow doesn't fit with this tale about the decidedly NOT benevolent Lord Whitman ( the late great Vincent Price ) , his quest to kill all those who practice witchcraft at the shock and horror of his wife , and the cursed fate that one of the surviving witches put upon him and his family . While certainly not Price's best work , it still remains very watchable . The film kinda lulls in the middle , but it starts to pick up again towards the end . I found the film to be very atmospheric and had good acting by all involved . Eye Candy : Sally Geeson , Jane Deady , Quinn O'Hara , and Essy Persson get topless
those wacky races	David Carradine takes part in an illegal anything goes cross-country race from California to New York . Paul Bartel's second attempt at the race movie , while good isn't as fun as his previous " Death Race 2000 " . It's still fun in parts , but lacks the pacing and memorable characters ( except for Carradine and the always watchable Dick Miller ) DVD Extras : Interviews with David Carradine , Mary Woronov , and Roger Corman ; Poster and Stills gallery ; 3 TV spots ; and Theatrical Trailer 1 Easter Egg : Highlight a hidden car in the Extras menu for a Carquake / the giant spider invasion combo trailer
still better than " Episode 1 and 2 " combined	Princess Layme ( Robin Cannes ) hires two bounty hunters to rescue her sister , Princess Orgasma ( Laurie Smith ) from evil Lord Balthazar , but will they be able to withstand the endless sex ' torture ' in this porno parody of " Star Wars " ? Written by Arthur King who also wrote the awful " Ten Little Maidens " , so I was pleasantly surprised that it didn't suck total ass even . Most of the humor works , but the constant flashing to mundane things during the sex scenes ( volcano eruptions , space , etc . . ) But you know what ? It's STILL better than those crappy Lucas-penned " Star Wars " prequels .
I'm a man , not a fish	A British photographer who kills a local in self-defense in Thailand , decides to take a boat up stream to take pictures of sea life . After a while he falls asleep , waking up to find his tour guide dead . He's then captured by savages who think he's a fish-man because of his wetsuit . He's eventually accepted but still longs to get home . Everyone talks about the animal violence , I won't because who cares , they're ANIMALS . The movie is lumped in with the cannibal films of the same era , but the cannibalism is pretty much secondary ( relegated to one or two scenes ) Overall this film isn't that bad and even fun in spots . DVD Extras : Umberto Lenzi Interview ; Photo Gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Duck ! The Carbine High Massacre " , " Zombi 2 " , " Massacre in Dinosaur Valler " , and " Warlock Moon " Easter Egg : Umberto's personal production stills Eye Candy : Me Me Lay shows all ; various extras show breasts , poontang , and ass
thanks for the mammeries	After the mob kill her boyfriend for double-crossing them , Crystal ( the jaw-dropping Lillian Wilczkowsky better known as Chesty Morgan ) decides to take revenge via mammary suffocation . The flick also has porn legend Harry Reems . It has horrid acting and a weak plot line , but Lillian is a wonder to behold . She's not attractive in many senses of the word , but those over-grown elephantine melons of hers are hopelessly hypnotic . The film has kitsch enough to be one of Doris Wishman's best movies ( Not saying that much , I know , but still ) Followed by a sequel that was worse in EVERY single way . Eye Candy : Chesty Morgon show's the biggest real breasts I've EVER seen as well as her tush , and Denise Purceli goes for a nude swim
the repair bill must have been awful	Jerry the Mouse and the little orphan Nibbles flood the kitchen to make a ghetto ice skating rink . Cue Tom and wacky ice cat and mouse hijinx . I don't know why , but this Tom and Jerry short didn't really do anything for me . It wasn't bad or anything like that , I just didn't laugh as much as I find myself doing while watching other Tom and Jerry cartoons . Sure some of the gags were kinda amusing and all . Maybe being a fairly new property owner myself I was thinking of how much the repair job would cost for something like that , coincidentally " the Amittyville Horror " affected me in pretty much the same way . Heh . This animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set .
2 real comedians of comedy , a fat guy with a crappy haircut , and a woman	This documentary is pretty funny . Wait let me qualify that statement somewhat , this documentary is pretty funny WHEN either Zach Galifianakis or Brian Posehn is getting screen time . Those two are the real F'N deal , my friend . Sadly in between those two pinnacles of greatness , you'll have to suffer through Patton ' I need a true calling , cause it's NOT comedy ' Oswalt and Maria Bamford . It's not really Marias fault , I only can name a whole ONE funny woman comedian ( that being the hilariously great Sarah Silverman ) , Patton , on the other hand , has no reason whatsoever to bomb as badly as he does every single time he gets on the stage . But as I said , if you can jump over these very sizable hurdles , you'll find a few moments to enjoy . Where I saw it : Showtime
Miss Howard Stern , Andrea Vs , some jerk kid	In her first appearance on the Howard Stern Show after she was crowned Miss Howard Stern in Vegas that past February , Andrea Ownbey comes on the show to challenge 11-year-old Jason Ortiz in an intelligence test . Andrea surprisingly holds her own for much of the contest , OK granted Jason shown he wasn't the brightest kid either , to put it mildly ( I know , i know . I shouldn't rag on a little kid , but he came off as so unwarrantably arrogant and just a snide lil ' ass that I don't feel that bad saying it ) The jerk kid eventually does win and promptly proves what a sore winner he is . This was probably my least favorite episode featuring Miss Howard Stern .
Not Hu's best	King Hu's take on the old Liaozhai tale of The Painted Skin is merely OK . I expected much from the great Hu as his previous film were never anything less than greatness . Thia film feels a tad more dated then his other films . One can ; t help but compare it to his similarly themed " Touch of Zen " , and this movie suffers because of that . Adam Cheng is good in the role of Wang Hsi-Tzu , a young scholar having a bad luck day and befriending a ghost . Sammo Hung is excellent as always ( well in his non-US movies at least ) as a high monk that Wang comes across . And it still remains a film worth watching , it just pales to everything Hu had made in the past . DVD Extras : Trailers for " Running out of Time " , " Dragon Inn " , " Armageddon " , and " the Duel "
full time waister	There's a plot in there somewhere about two assassins and a girl they both have feelings for . One of them wants to take the number one assassin title from the other . But really this film is just a exercise in style over substance . The thing is the style IS great and it's very fun to watch . Well at least it attempts to get serious . A few nice set-pieces though . DVD Extras : 25 minute Making of ; 23 minute behind the Scenes ; Bios for Andy Lau , Takashi Sorimachi , and Johnnie To ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " The Believer " , " the Last Minute " and " Scratch "
Confronting mortality	This 6 minute short film directed by David Cronenberg , which can be viewed on the Criterion Collection 2-disc DVD of " Videodrome " has an elder actor ( Genre great Leslie Carlson ) coming to terms with his own waning mortality after a group of young children find an old Panavision camera and wish to film him with it . He goes into a monologue about how he distrusts this camera equating it with death . For some reason I felt it was Cronenberg himself trying to express his thoughts and fears . The short itself is a tad impenetrable and difficult to derive any specific meaning from and although I did think it was good . it's not one of his better works . Despite ( or maybe because of ) this short being so introspective ) or perhaps I just wasn't used to this kind of work to come from David .
slightly uncomfortable yet still funny	When Mark meets business guru Alan Johnson , a man whom he holds in very high esteem . The two plan a merger and to move in together . This prompts a disgruntled Jeremy to snidely remark that Mark is gay . Mark being Mark , he starts to question his sexuality . Meanwhile Jeremy swears off drugs on account of a ' very bad thing ' which he struggles to remember . Up till this episode , the cringe factor , which while always in the series , gets turned up quite a few notches . I know it was played for laughs ( NOT homophobic humour in the least , I hasten to add but there was one scene in particular that I felt went a tad too far , if only for the frontal male nudity . However that said , I still found the episode funny , just not as much as the previous three that came before it .
One of only 2 average films by Twohy	The crew of the submarine , U . S . S Tiger Shark , are on a mission during World War 2 , when they pick up some stranded people , a woman among them ( apperently a bad omen ) . Strange things start to happen ( music playing by itself , apparitions appearing , yada yada yada ) . Below had a chance to be really good , if not great , but the film choose to navigate pate what could've been and set course for the sea of averageness . I never felt enthralled by any of the characters . Tenically it IS a good film , but it could have been more . Writer / director Twohy is hit ( Pitch Black , the Fugitive , the Arrival ) or miss ( GI Jane , Waterworld , Chronicles of Riddick ) , and it seemed only in 2002 , with this and " Imposter , did he play in the middle of the road . DVD Extras : Commentary by David Twohy , Matt Davis , Bruce Greenwood , Holt McCallany , Zach Galfianakis , and Nick Chinlund ; 12 minute behind the scenes featurette ; 3 Deleted scenes with optional commentary ; Dimension compilation trailer ; Theatrical Trailer ; and trailers for " Halloween : Resurrection " , " Dracula 2002 : Ascension " , " Tangled " , and " Undisputed " ( but if you really love the movie try to get the Holland released R2 double disc version )
meh	It's time once again for the Doctor Who Christmas Special , in this one The Doctor , recently companion-less , finds himself inboards the Titanic , an interstellar cruiser orbiting Earth to observe how they celebrate Christmas ( which in London isn't festively on account of the previous years ' fiascoes ) The Doctor also must deal with the Titanic ' crashing ' into asteroids . Pretty much " the Posieden Andventure " set in space with killer robots . This was a little bit of fun fluff , nothing that substantial to think about . The one strike this special has going against it is Kylie Minogue , who can't act her way out of a plastic bag . The other thing going against it is seldom lapses into cheap sappy sentimentality . Neither of those totally ruins the episode , but they do keep it from being on the same caliber as " The Christmas Invasion "
what the title has to do with this short is anyone's guess . . . good though	Samantha , Lydia , Isabella , and Lisa don't know each other , save for Isabella & Lydia who are experimental lesbian lovers . The only thing they have in common is the mere fact that they'll all be killed by an unknown assailant in this experimental mostly narrated 6 and a half minute short film . On a whole , I found it slightly more interesting and very much more accessible than co-writer / director Adam Wingard's previous short film " the Girlfriend " . Also the twist ending is pretty good . This short film can be found as an extra on the DVD of " Home Sick "
Not as good as part 1	After a lengthy recap of part 1 , the story of Sinderella ( Savannah ) continues where it left off as she was about to arrive at the Prince's ball . And after a 2 Savannah-less porn scenes , she does just that , but has to leave as soon as she get the Prince off as the clock strikes midnight . So now the Prince has to royal screw everyone to find Savannah once more . I don't know why it took two years for Part 2 to be released especially giving the high speed that porn companies churn out product , but I liked this one as well , perhaps not as great as I liked the first , due to it having less Savannah centered scenes , but still a solid effort . Director Paul Thomas rarely fails to impress . My Porn Grade :
either you're a fan of Sidaris or you're not	The third film in the long " babes with guns " series , has the buxom beauties of a government agency that at this point of the series hadn't been named , go after baddie Miguel Ortiz after he kills secret agent Picasso Trigger . A steady stream of bad acting , massive explosions and even more massive mammeries ( but less nudity than most of the other films in the series ) . When it comes down to it Andy Sidaris's near-trademark mixture of boobs , bullets , and bad acting is not for everyone . You either enjoy the concoction or you don't . I'm more in the former than the latter as I see them as fairly innocent time-wasting eye candy . Just go with it and you'll enjoy to an extant . And while this one might not be his best film ( that would be " Do or Die " in case you're wondering ) , it's still enjoyable if you just remember to turn your brain off at the door . Eye Candy : Cynthia Brimhall , Hope Carlton , Patty Duffek , Kym Malin , and Don Spier all show various amounts of gratuitous skin . DVD Extras : Introduction with Andy and Julie Strain ; Director's Commantary ; 36 minute Behind the scenes featurette ( featuring abundant nudity ) ; Production Stills ; Sndy Sidaris filmography ; web-links ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for 11 other Sidaris films ( all with abundant nudity ) Easter Egg : There's one hidden in the main menu featuring a nearly fully nude Julie Strain goofing off .
the Importance of being Ernest	Three ladies choose to take Ernest ( the late lamented Sydney Lassick ) , a seemingly altruistic man ( who's anything but ) up on his offer to stay at his house where he resides with his sister , after they can't find any hotels with enough room for them . Soon after an ' unseen ' tenant in the basement is killing off the buxom beauties . This is a bad movie , I make no bones about that , but it manages ( in spite of itself ) to became slightly above par ( for an ' 80's slasher film ) thanks in no small part by the one-two acting punch of Sydney Lassick who plays his part of the devious off-kilter Ernest & Stephen Furst , who's over-the-pale tour-de-force performance of the titular ' unseen ' has to be seen to be truly appreciated . All the other scenes without these two and sub-plots in the film are merely tedious filler . Eye Candy : Lois Young goes full frontal as well as showing her ass Code Red 2-disc DVD extras : Disc 1 ) Introduction by Doug Barr and actor Stephen Furst ; commentary with producer Tony Unger and Furst ; separate interviews with Furst & Barr ; still gallery ; theatrical trailer ; and trailers for The Farmer , Butcher Baker Nightmare Maker , Sole Survivor , Beyond the Door , The Visitor , Dead Pit & Terror CircusDisc 2 ) Seprate interviews with make-up effects artists Craig Reardon & Tom Burman ; Make-up tests , slides , and stills gallery
a fairly good action film IF you turn your brain off	Jason Statham is Frank Martin , an ex-Special Forces operator who is now a transporter who has his own set of rules that he strictly abides by until he breaks them and opens a " package " he's transporting that contains Qi Shu . This film is entertaining enough , if wholly unbelievable . You'll enjoy it if you turn off your brain and just roll with the action . Personally I expect more from Writer Luc Besson , but then again since 1995 he's only made fun and entertaining but not great films ( with the two obvious exceptions of the original " Taxi " and " Danny the Dog " which were almost as superb as his pre-1995 movies ) DVD Extras : Both widescreen & Fullscreen editions of the film ; Commentary by actor Jason Statham and producer Steve Chasma ; a 12 minute Making Of featurette ; 3 Extended / Uncut Fight Sequence with optional commentary ; and Theatrical Trailer
Introduced the best television Hercules	In the first of a series of TV movies that would lead up to the show , we're introduced to Kevin Sorbo in the role he was born to play ( no not Kull the Conqueror ( , Hercules . He's going to be the best man in the wedding of Iolaus ( Michael Hurst ) , when they decide to go off on one more adventure together before Iolaus weds to face men-hating feminist Amazons ( I know that term is VERY redundant ) who worship Hera . It starts off well enough , but unneeded " moralizing " combined with a cop-out ending . Some good action is able to offset that somewhat . Eye Candy : An extra is topless for a split-second
in Seagal's top 5	Nico Toscani ( Steven Seagal , in his first starring role ) is a Vietnam vet turned veteran cop . When he captures a low-time drug dealer , using what else , his martial arts prowess , the dealer tells him of bigger fish out there . Which in turn leads him to a fiendish plot that goes deeper than he knows and he finds himself on the wrong side of the law . Can Nico survive this onslaught ? Of course he can , he's Seagal ! ! Fuggedaboutit . As I strongly suggest for this and other Seagal films is merely turn off your brain and just enjoy the action packed ride . It may not be his best film ( that would be Out for Justice ) , nor his second best film ( Marked for death ) , but it's definitely in the top 3 , and that's good enough for me .
better then Hyper , at least	An assortment of people are being trapped in a trap-laden cube and yadda , yadda , yadda . . . This prequel is basically just a retread of the first film , with the only added ingredient to the story being of those who watch the prisoners of the cube . And while it was marginally better then " Hypercube " ( and really you CAN'T get worse than that film ) , it was still not as good as the original . Add to that the ending isn't that believable and only exists to form a link to the first film . Plus the " Revelation " that the group behind the whole project is cinema's favorite whipping boy , the American Government , is cliché and only further tarnishes the mysterious enigma that in part made the original Cube such a delight . Hopefully the Cube trilogy will remain just that . DVD Extras : Commentary with Ernie Barbarash ; Making of featurette ; Music video ( by the way when a Cube film has a music video it misses the point ) ; Conceptual Art ; Storyboard comparisons ; Trailers for " Saw " , " Riding the Bullet " , " Final Cut " , and " Haute Tension "
more a remake than a sequel , but still entertaining	Former heavyweight champion , George ' The Iceman ' Chambers ( Micheal Jai White , taking over for Ving Rhames ) is sent to a Russian gulag on trumped-up charges where he must fight . Once you get past that this movie is less of a sequel than a remake ( one that misses the whole crux of the original I might add ) . Once you surrender to the fact that Walter Hill is the Undisputed winner in directing . You'll find that this direct to DVD movie is actually pretty good in a brainless action movie kind of way . White does the best with what he's been given and the fight scenes are well staged . One could find worse ways to spend around an hour and a half , can't vouch for the film being very memorable though . To sum up , more in common with the Penitentiary films of days of yore than a sequel to Undisputed , but it's still solid .
Its not hot , but still sticky sweet , from it's head to it's feet	Jack Campbell ( Nick Cage ) is a successful , talented , happy businessman on the top of the world . On Christmas Eve , while at a convenience store , he runs into a semi-helpful black guy ( well it IS a fantasy movie , I kid of course . ) , who offers him a glimpse of what life would be like if he had stayed with a previous girlfriend . Before you can utter " Holy Clichéd movie , Batman ! " , Jack is transported to a life of changing snotty nosed babies diapers and other pitfalls of married life . The topper being that he now lives in New Jersey ( the horror , the horror ) . Don't get me wrong I DO like this film , despite the ultra-simplistic moral that if you don't have someone to love you , you can never be truly happy no matter how much you think you are . If you don't have someone in your life , then you're just deluded in your happiness . That type of BS will NEVER sail with me . I like it , despite the amount of syrupy sweetness is enough to put Mother Theresa into a diabetic induced coma . It is well-acted and I was hardly ever bored , so that should count for something . DVD Extras : Commantary with Director Brett Radner and Writers David Diamond & David Weissman ; Second Commentary with Producer Marc Abraham ; Music Score Commentary with Danny Elfman ; A 20 minute Spotlight on Location featurette ; 9 Deleted Footage ; 6 Outtakes ; Montage of people saying Jack ; Seal ' This could be Heaven ' Music Video ; a lame Choose your Fate game ; Opening scene with Alternative Music ; Production Info ; Cast & Crew Biographies ; and Theatrical TrailerDVD-ROM : Script to Screen Comparison ; Screensaver ; Wallpaper
not good , nor bad , it just . . . . is	A group of friends are starting to get phone calls from their future selves calling from the time of their impending deaths . It's up to two people to figure out the cause of it all . Reasonably well acted , but too little too late it would seem , as the " J-Horror " fad was over just about when these films were labeled with such a burdensome title . It sadly just felt way too mainstream ( oh no did I argue it being to mainstream and upset some snobby pseudo-intellectual holier than thou bohemian dunce ? ) and I haven't felt as unenthralled with a Takashi Miike film since Andoromedia . Media Blasters 2-Disc Set DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Visitor Q " , " Ichi the Killer " , " Deadly Outlaw Rekka " , " Izo " , " Fudoh " , " Choking Hazard " , " Hiruko the Goblin " , & Rojo Sangre " Disc 2 ) 57 minute Making of documentary ; 20 minute interview with Takashi Miike ; 14 minute & 20 seconds of cast interviews ; Alternate ending ; 3 TV Spots ; footage of 3 screenings ; ' a day with the Mizunuma family ' featurette ; and TV show special
slightly keeps it's head above water	Kieran Culkin , the talented one in the family , portrays Igby Slocumb . A young adult who can't really adjust to life on the surface because of his experiences growing up with a crazed father and a lush mother . He , while 17 , prefer's the company of older women bedding both his step-father's mistress Rachel ( Amanda Peet ) and an older druggie vegetarian Sookie ( Claire Daines ) while ' on the lam ' from going to military school in this slightly coming of age film . I enjoyed this film surprisingly , and while it did seem slightly pretentious , not nearly as much so as " American Beauty " did . All the performances are pretty damn good and Kieran far outperforms what his brother , Macaulay , appear to be capable of . Not to over praise it , as it does have fault , growing melancholy and predictable towards the end . It also falls in the trap of using music as a cheap ploy to attempt to provoke and / or manipulate emotion . One feels that it's attempting to be Andersonesque , but fails a bit on that level . Take this for what it is , a slightly above-average life drama and be happy with that . Eye Candy : Amanda Peet gets topless
not as good as " Deathwatch " but still better than most slasher films of late	A group of juvenile hoodlums overseen by prison guard Jed ( Sean Pertwee , " Dog Soldiers " ) have to fend for there lives after being sent from prison to a secluded island after the death of one of their fellow prisoners . Once there they meet up with a female guard watching over her own female group An unknown person is killing them off one by one ( ok perhaps unknown isn't the right word as it's utterly transparent who the killer is ) While the movie might be filled with the usual stereotypes ( the a-hole , the nerdy guy , the slut , etcetera ) , the plot far from original , and the ' mystery ' of the killer extremely easy to deduce , it's still a fun enough ride thanks to above adequate acting and some rather nifty bits of gore . And while this film ultimately fails to live up to the immense promise that the director showed as in his superior " Deathwatch " , it's still worthy of a watch on a rainy day . Certainly a notch above recent slasher / horror fare . DVD Extras : a conversation with Director Michael Bassett ( 4 minutes , 10 seconds ) ; mini-interviews with 7 members of the cast with a play all option ( 10 minutes in total ) ; a brief 9 minute on the set featurette ; trailer for this film ; and trailers for " Journey to the End of Night " & " A Guide to Recognizing your saints "
must be ' Cheese " cake	In the days leading up to Ginny's 18th birthday , her friends are being murdered . It'll all culminate on her birthday proper . This slasher was slickly done and doesn't get enough credit . That being said . David Eisner as Rudi was annoying , and the story itself doesn't make a lot of sense . The ' twist ' ending stretches too far . This hampers on alright movie . Finially about the song on the DVD , I saw the film with both the score and the cheesy song , it didn't really affect the movie either way and the song is actually better when used at the dance . Long story short , you could do WAY worse slasher-wise than this one . DVD Extras : Trailers for " I Know what you did last Summer " , " Identity " , and " Resident Evil : Apocalypse " ( but not even a trailer for this film GRRRRR )
McKimson should have just stuck with Foghorn Leghorn , cause he was the bane of Bugs Bunny's existence	Bugs bunny is willing to play along when a female gorilla desperately wants to have a baby . But the husband of the gorilla , Mr . Gruesome hates Bugs and wants him out of the picture . This is YET another Robert McKimson directed short that fails when compared to the Bugs Bunny cartoons of other MUCH more competent directors . His name almost makes one weep when a TRUE Looney Tunes fan sees it in the credits . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Jerry Beck that needless to say is more interesting than the actual short .
A bit choppy	Chris Kentis directed his second movie , after the Billy Crudup-led disaster that was " Grind " , about a couple who misses their boat and has to fend for themselves , contending with sharks , barracudas , puke , diarrhea and lack of food or water . Think of this as a " Blair Witch project " , but in the water , better dialog , and you know , actually good . Come to think of it , this isn't like the abysmal Blair Witch film at all . The dialog seems authentic enough , even if the main character's decisions of what to do don't . It kept my attention , and for a low-budget film that's enough for me . Oh and plus Susan Ryan is Hot with a capital H . DVD Extras : Commantary with Susan Ryan and Daniel Travis ; Second commentary with Chris Kentis and Laura Lau ; The Indie Essentials featurette ; Making-of ; On-location footage ; 7 Deleted Scenes ; and theatrical Trailer Eye Candy : Susan Ryan shows it all and it's so VERY good
Horridly white-washed , yet entertaining just the same	Well acted , but horribly white washed tale of Larry Flint ( Woody ' Boyd ' Harrelson ) finding his fourth wife , Athena ( Courtney Love ) , starting his Hustle enterprise , being shot ( sometimes bad things happen to bad people ) , and his subsequent Supreme Court case brought about in part by Jerry Falwell ( another evil man ) . By painting Larry in such broad flattering strokes as to make him practically into a saint of the First Amendment right and a fabled crusader of free speech and the American way . In doing this in such a horribly one-sided way , Milos Forman doesn't do the film any favors . I hesitate to even call it a Biopic for it's so lopsided . That said , and if one just watches it for entertainment value ALONE , than the film succeeds greatly . Just remember that ANYthing even remotely connected to Oliver Stone is going to be completely factual and great liberties will be taken . Special Edition DVD Extras : Commentary by screenwriters Scott Alexander & Larry Karaszewski ; Second commentary by actors Woody Harrelson , Courtney Love & Edward Norton 2 featurettes ( : Free Speech or Porn ? , & Larry Flynt Exposed ) ; 2 deleted scenes with optional commentary ; New York Times review ; Filmographies ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Charlie's Angels : Full Throttle " and " Auto Focus " 6 Easter Eggs : In the Audio set up menu highlight a hidden campaign button on James Carville's suit for a vintage campaign ad from Flint ; In the subtitles menu there's a second vintage campaign ad ; a third one in Courtney Love's filmography page ; yet another in the main menu , STILL yet another in the special features menu ; and In Woody Harrelson's Filmography page there's one egg that doesn't have to do with Flynt's campaign thankfully
better than part 4	Charles Bronsan is back for the last time playing Paul Kersey . This outing he's fighting the Mafiso backed Unions after his fiancé gets disfigured and later killed . He also must save his fiancé's daughter who is also the daughter of the head Union boss . Contary to public perception , this isn't the worst of the series ( that dubious honor would go to part 4 ) . No this film is a step up from the previous one , and while it's not as great as part 3 was , it's still a pretty good watch . This was also Bronson's last theatrical film and I shed a tear when I heard of the great actors passing . He will be missed . Eye Candy : Sharolyn Sparrow gets topless , as do some extras .
who wouldn't fantasize about Rene Bond ? ?	Freddie ( Larry Barnhouse ) is a high-school student in the 50's who's perpetually a miss with the ladies . He has all the wrong moves , particularly in regards to his dream girl , Mary Lou ( the always watchable porn great Rene Bond ) To make matter's worse he's a virgin . But his friends ( or as close as he gets to having friends ) attempt to ' help ' him ( ie . steal his money ) with his problem with some ' spanish fly ' . Will this help him win the girl of his fantasies ? ? This is a pretty good Rene Bond vehicle with a surprising lack of money shots . So it's kinda tame for a hardcore film , but thanks to the plot & of course Rene , it remains worth your time . The Goods : 6 sex scenes ( 5 m / f , 1 m / m / f that one's interspersed with plot scenes , going back to the sex every now and then )
Kids slay the darnedest things	Five tiny tykes ( including child star Leif Garret , as a cross-dresser none the less & his sister Dawn Lyn ) terrorize a group of people who're at a business retreat in a secluded snowbound lodge at the behest of bossy a-hole , Papa Doc . Meanwhile his VERY easy wife is busy seducing a mentally retarded helper . which leads to a rather ridiculous yet still arousing cat-fight . In fact most of the film is endlessly padded ( thanks to the original director only getting 40 or so minutes completed ) . This means we're treated to pretty dull everyday events such as working out , eating bananas , talk , talk , more talk , more eating and finally thankfully the last 20 minutes of what you'd see this film hoping to see . Oh I forgot about 30 minutes in their is a badly lit murder in super slow motion ( it takes maybe 5 minutes , no lie ) . The film is still not that bad and is even one of the better movies of the " Killer Kid " genre ( not one of the best though ) . It's a bit creepy and worth watching if you can stay still through the padding of course . Also the way one particular character dies is pretty disturbing when taking the fact that the actors involved are very closely related into account . Eye Candy : Joan McCall and Carolyn Stellar ( Leif Garret's mom ) both get topless
yea it's bad , but good at it	Set in the future , 4 convicts jump at the chance to get out of jail scott free ( plus use of the virtual sex fantasy machine ) by taking a space mission to recover a lost spaceship . Sounds simple enough , but a fiendish , yet sexy , alien in the guise of the form of Tracy Scoggins ( of latter day Babylon 5 and Crusade fame ) , has other plans for this gang of rapscallions . This movie will NOT win any awards for acting , for writing , nor will it win any accolades for special effects . But I've been known to enjoy a ' so bad it's good ' flick every now and then and this film has the feel of a Fred Olen Ray movie ( mind you , one that he use to make in the ' 80's , when his films were still entertaining ) . Plus ANY movie that lets Lando Calrissian hammily overact like this movie does HAS to be worth at least one viewing ; ) Eye Candy : Melinda Armstrong of the Bikini Summer films bares all , Tracy Scoggins unleashes her Babylon 2 as well as some ass to boot , and Gwen Somers show her breasts
Gleeson's the true star of this film	This Boston Irish-American flavored coming-of-age film is extremely typical of any other film of it's type complete with alcoholic father , doting over-bearing mother , fighting siblings , a family in disarray , and so on and so forth . You've likely seen something like it in some variation a million times before . What sets it a tad above films of the same ilk is very commendable performances by Micheal Angarano as Cole and especially Brendan Gleeson as his father , Desmond ( the latter is simply riveting ) Will this film revolutionize coming of age flicks in any way ? no , not at all , but it's a well enough told tale well acted enough to be worth a watch . Region 1 DVD Extras : audio Commentary ; a 36 minute behind the scenes featurette ; and trailers for " Razor Eaters " & " Antonia "
Don't let Mary Carey's lack of any acting ability whatsoever deter you from this fun flick	Silly little flick that reminded me of an old King Missile song . It combined the staples of any good horror-comedy , mixing tons of nudity ( arrousal very dependent on your opinion of fuller figured women though ) with a fair amount of blood and off the wall humor that will cause some to laugh out loud and others just groan . I reside in the former for the most part . Sure some of the jokes fall flat and the movie runs a bit too long and can't maintain either the laughs or erotica for it's entire duration , but it's still a pretty good party movie to watch while inebriated or toasty . Lucky I caught it on Starz on Demand as I wouldn't have even heard of if it wasn't . My Grade :
amusing , but the one-joke premise wears thin	Bugs Bunny loves his daily feeding of carrots by Dr . Jekyll so much that he wants to live with him . The good Doctor is happy to oblige . But little to Bugs knowledge Jekyll has a small addiction of drinking a potion to change into the homicidal Mr . Hyde who wants to kill the rabbit . This cartoon is alright but really is a one joke premise that wears thin before long ( Jekyll turns into Hyde , scares Bugs who runs away , Hyde changes back into Jekyll , bugs is happy to see him , he changes again , Bugs runs away . . . etcetera over and over again ) . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional music only track .
well acted and the story was compelling , but it felt to rushed	An alien race , the N'Tal , make the first contact with Earth's public at large following weeks of behind the scenes diplomatic negotiations with the plea that the aliens get dead human bodies to use as hosts for them . This , of course , doesn't sit well with a lot of public citizens who rise up out of fear and hatred to rebel against what they see as an aberration . Micheal Alders ( Mykelti Williamson best known as Bubba from " Forrest Gump " ) is tasked by the president of America to procure suitable disease-free dead carcasses . He does his job fairly well even if his personal feelings are conflicted , a problem that only increases with the death of his best friend's wife ( Rae Dawn Chong ) . This episode started off well enough and all the right ingredients for a compelling good outer limits episode were there ( parinia , fear , hatred , etcetera ) , but somehow it comes all unglued at the end , feeling a bit rushed , a tad to forced . I did enjoy this episode , just not as much as I should have if the story was given more time to truly breathe .
Disturbing	After a boating accident kills one of Angela's two dads and her sibling . She goes to live with her crazy Aunt who proceeds to send her cousin and her to Camp Arawak . But soon enough grisly murders start to befall the crew and other campers in this low budget early ' 80's flick which is pretty hamily acted and is notable mainly for the ending , which granted IS a tad bit disturbing . That's the only real surprise of the film as the identity of the killer is pretty much a foregone conclusion . Not awful for an 80's slasher flick , but not particularly a classic either . Followed by two " unofficial " but much better sequels and an as yet still unreleased " official " one . DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Robert Hiltzik , Actress Felissa Rosa , & moderated by Jeff Hayes ; and Theatrical Trailer
slightly above water temperature	After Sam ( Rory Culkin ) gets beat up by that fat kid from " Spun " ( as if to say " This is for ' It runs in the Family ' , punk ) , his brother lures him into the woods under the charade of a nice friendly boat trip . Needless to say , things don't go as planned ( they rarely do in these type of films ) . In the fat kids defense he's a fat nerd ( however annoying ) and Sam DID touch his video camera , so the little a-hole was asking for it . The acting is perfectly adequate , but the soundtrack is horrible . All in all a perfectly OK film , not the masterpiece that so many seem to praise it as , but just fine .
Likable despite all it's flaws	From writer William Dancer ( the " Little Girls Blue " films ) and Director Hans Christian , comes this just plain fun ( almost innocent ) porn about students taking final exams before graduation at a private school for girls . These girls will do anything to pass including writing the answers on their tits , seducing the teachers , and getting the janitor ( Tom Byron ) to steal the answers in exchange for the promise of sex . Even with the goof of the highly visible boom mike , them pretending that one of the girls with smallish tits is generously well-endowed , and none of the girls being particularly attractive , this film is still strangely watchable and has an aura of good feeling around it . Which was a nice change of pace as movies of the same ilk at the time were getting heavier theme wise .
Average featurette	Starting off as a brief history of horror and slasher films , various people take about Hammer films , Herschell Gordon Lewis , and various other notable horror films . Moving onto the original " Final Destination " , and the particapents go on to the less interesting part 2 . Seeind and hearing of those better horror films of past years , one can't help but see Final Destination 2 as being as unworthy as it truly is . However this documentary features all the ' good bits ' and how they accomplished the gore of the ' good bits ' It winds up being an OK documentary . This 30 minute 30 second featurette can be located on New Line's Infinifilm DVD release of " Final Destination 2 "
nice Aussie zombie indie loses steam towards the end	Rene ( Felicity Mason ) , the town beauty queen of Berkley , Austrailia , wants desperately to get out . But as her and her boyfriend are driving out of town , meteorites fall from the sky turning various town-folk into rampaging zombies . When Rene's boyfriend gets changed , she watches as a mysterious stranger ( whom we later learn is the town ' crazy ' ) dispatches the now zombiefied BF . She decides to hole up in the isolated farmhouse of said ' kook ' . It's soon up to her , the guy , a husband , his pregnant wife , and two cops to survive long enough to figure what the hell is going on . This Aussie film , while hopelessly derivative and ripping-off a great many great genre movies , is still a lot of fun . It looks far better than it's budget would imply and gore-hounds will be satisfied . That being said , the acting isn't the greatest and the movie pretty much loses steam towards the end when it veers decidedly off-course . But it's still very enjoyable for fans of the genre .
Murray saves it	A typical summer camp film with the prerequisite fat guy , nerd , hot girl and the corny but fun-spirited song is saved by Bill Murray as Tripper Harrison the head counselor , making this film humorously enjoyable , if not laugh out loud funny . Not Murray best movie by a long shot , but an enjoyable enough time waster . Sadly Kristine DeBell who happily showed everything in the mid-70's sleaze classic " Alice in Wonderland " ( tis a pity , trust me ) Followed by three dire sequels , with the bottom of the barrel being the ' meatball ' the alien starring " Meatballs 2 "
Before Bill Cordon became an ultra-liberal quack	Someone or someones are turning kids into murderers It's up to a local homicide cop to figure out what's happening . . Of course this being a Bill Cordon written film he has to throw some gayness in there . Here it's in the form of naked male ass . Bill of course would go onto writing and directing movies that Liberals love and if you criticize them you're labeled a " homophobe " , " Puritan " , " Close-minded " , or any combination there of . Such crap as " Gods and Monsters " and the abysmal glorification of pedophilia and his return to the mad " scientist " motif that is " Kinsey " If Mr . Cordon only stuck to semi-enjoyable low-grade horror films like this and " Strange Invaders " , I wouldn't have a bone to pick with him ( no pun intended ) My Grade : DVD Extras : Commentary with Bill Condon , Dan Shor , and Dey Young ; Isolated music score ; 2 deleted scenes with optional commentary ; Photo gallery ; Filmographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Dead Kids " ( This films original title ) , " Patrick " , " Thirst " , and " Syngenor "
typical 80's teenage sex comedy	Christine ( The MUCH over-rated Phoebe Cate ) plans to lose her virginity to Jim ( Matthew Modine , whom would a year later play Birdy in the great movie of the same name ) . Meanwhile Jim's friends plot to see as many nude girls as possible in this typical 80's teenage sex romp . While infinitely better than " Last American Virgin " this film is still way below " Porky's " But Betsy Russell DOES have a great horse riding scene . Worth a watch at least once for that . Eye Candy : Kari Lizer and Julie Payne only show one breast each , Betsy Russell and Brinke stevens show boobs as well as bums , Lynda Wiesmeier shows all three B's , and Phobe Cate only shows her butt , plus various girls take part in a shower sceneMy Grade : C+Where I saw it : Encore Love
Shark Jump : Chloe be thine name	Keifer Sutherland is great in his role of Jack Bauer an agent for C . T . U . ( counter terrorism Unit ) in this action packed show where a day seems to take forever ( well at least a season ) . The first season was simply amazing with the freshness of the idea for the show , the surprises , great acting , a dimwit but uber-hot daughter , and one of the best ending scenes for a TV show of all time . All the subsequent seasons couldn't help but pale in comparison . Season 2 was still very thrilling and highly watchable . Something happened in the third season that made me like the show a tad less . That was the addition of Mary Lynn Rajskub as Chloe . Every time she said or did anything severely dumb ( which have been too numerous to count ) I found myself wincing . Sure Jack's daughter seemed to be a little on the flaky side , but Chloe was borderline mental and why ANY important government agency that's worth anything would ever hire someone so insanely deficient of any semblance to mental capacity is something I can't fathom . I could suspend disbelief for a lot of what happened in 24 ( it can get a tad outlandish sometimes ) , but NOT Chloe . Pre-Chloe grade : A Post-Chloe :
competently made and reasonably fun while it lasts , but too short	Anyone who has seen their fair share of Westerns will know everything that's going to happen in the game plot-wise and even when it's gong to happen . However the game's still fun to play ( while it lasts , as it's on the short side . It's also the smallest ' sandbox ' type game I've played . ' sandbox ' being a go almost anywhere right from the start type of game akin to GTA , True Crime , Saint's Row , Etc . . . etc . . While the longevity and small nature of the game might be detrimental to this game , the great musical score and brilliant voice acting make it worth playing . The 360 version , of which i rented , is much more of a direct port and certainly didn't take hold of the massive potential that the system is clearly capable of . And the achievements which require you to play through the entire game no less then 4 times ( ? ? ! ! ? ) can grow quite tiresome indeed . But since I did get it's still pretty doable . Positives : Voice acting , story , musical scoreNegatives : short , small area to explore My current 360 Gamerscore : 32822 out of a possible 49760
Far from Hammer's finest , but still good	Deathly afraid that his daughter and son have gotten a touch of the crazy from their mother , a local Baron locks them up ( seperatly of course , since they have a thing for each other , or more precisely the brother has a thing for the receptive sister wink ) and keeps them drugged up . After the daughter escapes , she's subjected to having the ' bad ' blood dispelled . Meanwhile , a string of murders of town women are occurring . Are these connected ? You'll have to find that out for yourself . More anti-science then anti-religious . Snd while this isn't Hammer's finest hour , it's still engrossing ( Over-acting and all ) However , I thought that Shane Briant who plays Emil , the son was much better in the same year's " Straight on Till Morning " DVD Extras : Commentary with Peter Sykes , Christopher Wicking , Virginia Wetherell and Journalist Jonathan Sothcott ; Theatrical Trailer Eye Candy : Fleeting glimpses of Gillian Hill's ' hills ' , and Virginia Wetherell full frontal .
Holmes and Byron perform sexorcisms for a price	John Holmes is Dickman and Tom Byron is Throbbin . Together they are a duo of superheros known as Sexcorcists that turn frigid women into sex-craving whores . This film is all about campy , corny fun just like the old " Batman " TV show that it parodies . Sadly , all the scenes without Holmes or Byron isn't as good . Needless to say , this film while not being John Holmes best that I've seen , is still enjoyable enough . Even if the only great scene in the movie is with Holmes , Byron and a stunning Amber Lynn as a virginal pop singer . ( I always laugh when porn stars play virgins for some reason , but it was a hot scene none the less ) My Porn
A tad over-rated	Much more interested in the relationship between two schoolgirls than being a true ghost story ( though it is that to at the behest of the Producer ) This Korean film has to do with a mysterious diary that has been found by one of the students detailing the developing lesbian relationship between the two girls , which is handled extremely well and brought to mind Peter Jackson's " Heavenly Creatures " in a way . The supernatural aspect is relegated mostly towards the ending of the film and no doubt will be disappointing to some . It's a pretty good film and very nicely acted , I just feel that it may be the tiniest bit overpraised by the ' proffesional ' reviewers My Grade : Asia Extreme DVD Extras : A 25 and a half minute Making of ; Photo Gallery ; Music video ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Phone " , " Koma " , " Tale of Two Sisters " , " Heroic Duo " , " Whispering Corridors " , & " Oldboy "
a very impotent movie	In order to combat over-population , a serum is made to make men sterile for a few years , it works more potently than expected causing the population of guys to remain impotent for life . Now the government must find those precious few of the male species that still have some swimmers in their spunk in this early 70's skin flick . Jokes are made pertaining to the scandals of the time which cause to date this film a tad . But for the most part movie was . . . OK I'm not going to call it good as that's not the right word . The movie is not that awful . Beware it . s chock full of negative stereotypes . A PC film , this one definitely is not . Well at least it has more of a plot than " Deep Jaws " did . Plus ANY film with either Rene Bond or Uschi Digard is never a total loss and this one has BOTH . Something Weird DVD Extras : 15 minute Gallery of Exploitation art with accompanying music ; Trailers for " the All-American Girl " , " Teaser " , " the Damish Connection " , " Terror at orgy Castle " , & " Evil Come , Evil go " ; and Theatrical trailers for this as well as " Deep Jaws ( which is also on the same DVD ) Eye Candy : Pretty much every actress in this film shows everything
more fun if you've actually been to Mardi Gras	Typical girls gone wild video with girls shaking their T & A and trim at the camera . Made better ( or worse ) by Snoop Dogg's involvement . Frankly I didn't care one way or the other , save for the fact that I saw places that I've been to when I went down to Mardi Gras ( for example I stayed at the hotel that Snoop did , I've been to the Boot , frankly I like The Dunguen better , hell even the dumpy Whirling Dervish was more fun in my alcohol induced stupor ) Note to self : Those Grenades F$ @ K your shiznit up . Anyways back to the DVD . Well I said pretty much everything about the content already . So I guess I liked it only because I've been to Mardi Grace twice ( thus far ) & it brought back fun memories .
This dubious sex act ultimately cums undone	Three girlfriends decide to have one last hurrah before their vacation ends by joining 4 guys in a drug and sex-fueled cruise on their private yacht . All is just peaches until one of the ( too put it diplomatically ) more amorous girls get inadvertently killed by a donkey punch , the act of punching a girl in the back of the head when the man is about to climax ( the idea being that this act would cause the girl to involuntary spasm in her neither regions , thus providing the man with much more pleasure ) , after her neck snaps . Obviously the guys are more concerned with their respective futures than doing the right thing . What follows is a dangerous game destined to culminate into a brutal showdown . What we have here is more or less a horror-centric version of the darkly comedic " Very Bad Things " , but ultimately not as good as the aforementioned film . Although I did enjoy the film to an extent and found that it was able to hold some nice tension ( however fleeting ) But as time wore on my suspension of disbelief became increasingly too much to bear ( especially in the last few minutes which were just utterly ridiculous ) , and sadly it adversely affected my overall opinion of this movie . Eye Candy : Sian Breckin & Jaime Winstone show all ; the women in the audience get some male butts & penises DVD Extras : Commentary by director Olly Blackburn ; 3 cast interviews with 6 actors ( running 28 minutes in total ) ; director interview ( 14 minutes ) ; a 17-minute making-of featurette ; 6 deleted scenes with reasons why they were cut for most of them ; an ad for HD . net ; a trailer for this film ; and trailers for Mutant Chronicles , Splinter , Shuttle , Let the Right one in , Special , Timecrimes , Eden Log , & Big Man Japan
A muscle monster ? ?	Scientists use a brain-altering drug to conduct experiments , after one such project goes astray , they need to find another test subject in this Japanese splatter-punk film . On it's surface Rubber's Lover can be compared to Tetsuo : the Iron Man ( shot in black and white , weird , kinetic , and machine driven ) , but it's different enough to stand on it's own merits , even if it's not nearly as good as the aforementioned film . Good for a viewing or two , but it's not one of the films that you'll return to over and over again . Still for an obviously low-budget film it IS entertaining . DVD Extras : " Gerorisuto " short film ; Interview with Shozin Fukui ; Photo gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Electric Dragon 80000V " , and " Junk "
First in a popular Japanese ' Roman Porno ' series	A trio of Biker hoodlums , Kawashima , Kajima , and Sadakuni , who , which is quite apparent from the get go , spend their days raping women , talking about raping women , and planning to rape women again . Kawashima is extremely careful that his younger sister , Megu , never find out what he does and tries to protect her from the other gang members . Kajima tells Kawashima that he must rape a girl that he previously stopped the other members from raping only because his sister would have seen . but it's too late , there's already a rift growing between the gang members . This will start a chain of events that you know will not end well for any involved . I don't really take enjoyment from these rape fantasy films , this one is more thought provoking that titillating tho and has well fleshed out characters ( for the most part ) , and i never felt my interest waning . On a side note was it just me , or did the music sound like a certain Weezer riff ? ? Perhaps the boys saw this film before . DVD Extras : Commentary by Jasper Sharp ; Bio / Filmographies ; Separate Interviews with Toshiharu Ikeda ( 7 minutes ) and Takashi Ishii ( 21 minutes ) ; Original Sleeve art ; and Trailers for this and 4 other Angel Guts Films ( Red Classroom , Nami , Red Vertigo , & Red Porno ) all available in Artsmagik's Box-set , but for some reason the 6th film " Angel Guts : Red Flash " is not in the set
wondering if Norton was channeling Juliette Lewis for his ' Brian ' character	Robert DeNiro is talked into doing one last heist by Marlon Brando . He then has to contend with young upstart Ed Norton . Honestly the plot is pretty much secondary to seeing the tremendous amount of talented actors on display here . And viewing the movie as such , I enjoyed it . Infinitely better then " Ocean's 12 " . This would be Robert DeNiro's last GOOD film . Hopefully the upcoming " The Good Shepherd " will wake DeNiro out of his current slump of starring in crap , which I blame Eddie Murphy for starting , by the way . As well as Brando's last non-animated role . He will be missed greatly . DVD Extras : Commentary by Frank Oz and Rob Hahn ; 3 deleted scenes ; Making-of featurette ; Theatrical Trailer
doesn't feel complete	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Blind Spot " is yet another short that feels very incomplete . What the 1 and a half minute short does have going for it is some good tension . It's just WAY too short for it's own good . Besides have you ever tried to write 10 lines about a 90 second movie ? ? Well it's far from the easiest thing to do , believe you me . I can't even say the plot in more then a few words without fear of giving something away , but here goes anyway . A mother is driving down a otherwise vacant road . There that's the whole plot . Hey , wait a second I think I'm about done the review now . Hoorah for me .
an alright start to half a good show	Jessica Alba is Max , a top secret genetically-engineered but mentally deficient hotty who after escaping captivity lives as a bike message courier in Seattle of a post-apocalyptic world while searching for the other government experiments that have escaped . This pilot episode did it's job in setting up the characters and the pace of the show . However , I didn't care for the lapses into Ebonics as it just didn't seem natural coming out of Jessica Alba's mouth and it WAS a tad overly melodramatic in one or two places . And am I the only person who thought Kristin Bauer as Lydia was hot ? No wonder Max's boyfriend was cheating ; ) My Grade :
good when strictly about the film and Linda	More than just a documentary on the triple X porn classic , " Deep Throat " . This film is about the time of it's release , political motivations played an extremely huge hand in how well the porn movie did . And because it was released at just the right moment in history is one of the only reasons it's as highly regarded and made an unbelievable profit . There are a great many better porn films ( New Wave hookers , Debbie does Dallas , Devil in miss jones 3 , etc . . . ) But I digress , the documentary is pretty interesting , if the subject matter does stretch a bit thin . When the people who were directly involved with the film are being interviewed the film's fascinating . When those on screen have nothing at all to do with anything ( Wes Craven , John Waters , Bill Maher , and so on ) not so much . The film as a whole is flaccid and nothing i would watch again . And this from a guy who isn't above pornography in the least . It still remains good in short spurtsDVD Extras : Audio commentary with directors Randy Barbato & Fenton Bailey ; collection of audio outtakes from the film ; 14 Deleted scenes ( some exclusive to the NC-17 rated version ) ; and Theatrical trailer
nothing to scream about , but still worth a watch for fans of the genre	Do we really need to hear the thoughts and feelings on life from a group of females who's claim to fame is merely the fact that they're aesthetically pleasing to the eye and / or know how to scream rather well ? In theory no , it shouldn't be that high on the agenda for someone to watch . However in practice , it is an informative watch that any horror fan will want to watch , if not one to actively go out of your way to seek out . True , some of it MAY be , nay IS a tad pretentious ( a constant falling of most , if not all feature length documentaries of any stripe ) . I'd like to say that it was kept to a bare minimum , but that's not the case . However , that being said , as a horror fan , I still found it interesting . Could the subject matter been handled better ? That's debatable , but I'm on the side that it all come out well enough . Where I saw it : Showtime
Stanze has done better , but he has done MUCH worse as well	A group of young adults go up to stay at one of their Uncle's cabin in the woods . But it's located near an old Indian burial ground , and they get trapped with body possessing demon Indian spirits . Eric Stanze is a independent film maker who is difficult to pin , on one hand he gave us utter crap like " I spit on your corpse , I pss on your grave " On the other he made the pretty watchable " Christmas Season Massacre " , so he's not talentless . This film falls between the previously mentioned two quality wise . The first twenty minutes are so are slower then molasses , but after wards it moves at a fairly decent pace . DVD Extras : Commentary with Eric Stanze and DJ Vivona ; Second commentary with Lisa Morrison , Ramona Midgett , William Clifton , David Berliner , and Jerry Bates ; stills Gallery ; ' Hotel Faux Pas ' music video ; two promo trailers ; and Trailers for " Ice From the Sun " , and " Scrapbook " Easter Eggs : Trailer for " the Christmas Season Massacre " ; Production Facts ; two music videos by ' Ded Bugs '
far from my favorite	Elmer Fudd chases Bugs Bunny into a theater were both of them are forced to act . This isn't my favorite Looney Tunes short by far . It all seems a little off to me somehow and there's no doubt it could have been funnier then it was . More over the ending is a tad on the weak side and I really didn't like Fudd that much in this one , which is a shame as I usually do like him ( well more so than I did here ) . Bugs Bunny isn't really up to par in this short either , for that matter . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
getting better	The trio of Ryan , Micki & Jack figure out that the ' Cabinet of Houdin ' is in a new owner's hands after reading about the death of a renowned magician & cross-referencing it with the list of people who bought from ' Curious Goods ' . They must go undercover and audition in a magic show to find it and get it back safely . Good thing Jack was quite the magician himself in his heyday . The second Durnford King written episode ( ' Poison Pen ' was the first ) is a tad better and the series itself started to pick up as a whole as well . There were still some things I didn't really like about the episode ( Micki being naive ) but I found myself getting into it none the less . It was good to finally get the bad taste out of my mouth that the previous three episodes put there .
B-movie fun	Bela Lugosi is Dr . Paul Corruthers , a bitter betrayed scientist , who makes a shaving lotion and then makes huge bats that attack anyone who dare wear says perfume . He uses these two in conjunction to get even with those that have wronged him in the past and their families . This is an entertaining , if a bit melodramatic little B-movie . It's always nice to watch the excellent Bela Lugosi act ( well almost , some films that he's appeared in are absolutely dreadful , mostly the ones in the later part of his life ) A lot of unintentional laughs and a generally fun feel add up to a delightful film of yesteryear . I recommend this one . DVD Extras : Intro by Bela Lugosi Jr . ; Commentary by Lugosi Jr . and Ted Newsom ; Image gallery ; 30 minute " the Dr . Prescribed Death " radio play ; Trailers for " the Human Monster " , " Scared to Death "
Vintage Farrelly	Hal Larson as a young kid gets advice from his dying father not to settle for anything less than quality killer trim . However being superficial and slightly chunky himself , the beauties arn't really dropping at his feet . Until a chance meeting with guru Tony Robbins has him seeing hotties every where he goes , and these beauties actually want him . But there's one problem , only he can see them as hotties . Everyone else she's them a uglies , fatties , and trolls . He falls in love with Rosemary , a fatty who he sees as a knockout . Humorous situations arise when she does fat things but we see her as thin . This film wants to have it's lard and eat it too by inserting a Don Rickles type ending onto the film wherein after spending the majority of the act making fun of people , at the end of the act refuses to diffuse the situation by saying " . . But really we are all brothers under our skin " . But that didn't make the movie any worse , it's still hilarious , not as good as " Something about Mary " , " Kingpin " , " Dumb & Dumber " or " Me , Myself & Irene " , but it's still vintage Farrely Brothers . Jack Black as always is the shiznit . DVD Extras : Cmmentary with directors Bobby Farrelly & Peter Farrelly ; HBO : Making Of ; Comedy Central's Reel Comedy : Shallow Hal ; 2 featurettes ( Seeing Through The Layers , & In At The Deep End With Shallow Hal ; Dleted scenes with optional commentary ; Wall In Your Heart music video by Shelby Lynne ; TV spots ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Banger Sisters " , " Minority Report " and " Unfaithful " Easter Egg : In the Language selection menu highlight a hidden tail for test footage of that prosthetic
A good flick undone by too many retreads	Mike Myers stars as Austin Powers & Dr . Evil for the first time in what would because I series of three films ( thus far ) that would get progressively more and more mentally retarded as time went on . If you've seen either of the other two films , first my condolences , but you won't miss anything by not seeing this one as the jokes are reused in all 3 films . If you only saw this first , that's a good thing for you as it saves you wasted time being as you won't have to sit through the other two travesties . I haven't gone into the plot thus far because EVERYone knows the silly plot by now . This is the most amusing of the three BY FAR and didn't cause all those inane sayings that every mongoloid spouted out at the drop of a hat that it's first sequel did . DVD Extras : Commentary by Mike Myers and director Jay Roach ; 2 alternate endings ; Deleted scenes ; Jump to a cameo scene ; Spy genre retrospective ; original animated sequence ; Cast biographies ; Star highlights clips from " Dangerous Ground " , " Wide Sargrasso Sea " , " Rapture " , & " Monkey Trouble " ; Theatrical trailer ; and teaser trailer for " Lost in Space "
thankfully not a horrid spoof	Seduction cinema usually do groaningly awful soft-core spoofs of mainstream movies ( Ie . Spiderbabe , play-mate of the Apes , Lord of the G-string , etc . ) But this lesbian soft-core about a female Dr . Jekyll coming up with a way to unleash the female libido is played mostly straight ( pardon the pun ) Not to say that the story is anything but an excuse for the simulated sex , just that it's not jokey . And thats no surprise as Director , Tony Marsiglia tends to distance himself from spoof as well in the better plotted " Sin Sisters " . The sex scenes in this one are pretty hot as well . And I hope the girl who plays the maid , gets more famous . if for no other reason that then so can fix those teeth of hers . The Goods : 6 sex scenes ( solo , F / F , bondage , orgy ) stripteaseBabe of the Movie : Julian Wells is hot Seduction Cinemas limited edition DVD Extras : an interview with Misty Mundae & Julian Wells ( 8 minutes ) ; Making of documentary ( nearly 80 minutes ? ! ! ? ) ; theatrical trailer ; and the usual myriad of Trailers for other Seduction Cinema titles . The second disk is just a music soundtrack C
Falls a tad short of dethroning the Tim Burton original , but still a fine return to form	The film begins with Bruce Wayne ( Christian Bale ) locked inside a Chinese prison . He thinks back on his childhood when he first fell into a bat cave , thus showing us how he got his fear of bats , as well as starting to explain why he choose his symbol of a bat for his eventual costume as a crime fighting vigilant . After his parents are murdered , he first wants to assassinate the guy responsible , Joe Chill . But then just forsakes his birth right and material wealth to find himself . Finding himself involving him leaving as a thief ( but it's OK because he only steals his own stuff I guess , oh except food ) and vagabond which leads him into the aforementioned prison . Ra's Al-Ghul wants Bruce to be part of a clandestine vigilante gang . He trains with them , yet bulks at being a killer of evil man . So he goes back to Gotham to be it's protector . He also has to deal with the Scarecrow . This is the best Batman film since the Tim Burton original , not to say it is without fault as that's not the case . Bale does a MUCH better Bruce Wayne than a Batman , which is merely serviceable , Katie Holmes is pretty much the weak link in this film , and the new Batmobile is . . . well the less said about that the better . It's also slightly longer than it should be and could've used a little trimming . It was entertaining yes , but it's also HIGHLY over-rated right now and doesn't really have any business in the Top 250 , much less the top 100 movies of all time .
wow , that thing is massive	At a whopping 2 hours and 22 minutes , this documentary features EVERYthing you EVERY wanted to know about Hellboy the comic character and Hellboy the movie . Interviews with pretty much everyone ( well the main players ) who had to do with the film . it's a massive amount of information to take in . OK , Hellboy was a good movie , but does it warrant a documentary THIS massive ( longer than the film itself ) To sit down for the whole thing is daunting to say the least . However due to the size , I can only truly recommend this to die hard fans of the comic .
Blair's best 80's movie	Brenda ( Linda Blair ) , along with her high school friends , feels its a good idea to steal some hoodlum's car & total it after her deaf / mute sister walks into the middle of the road and almost gets hit by them . This doesn't sit well for the decidedly homo-erotic gang of ' bad boys ' lead with sadistic panache by Jake , so they decide to rape Brenda's sister which leads to her seeking vengeance in this 80's exploitation staple . Some might say that this film is simple-minded and while there's truth to that and it's a valid point , this film is also a pretty good piece of trash that wears it's exploitation badge on it's sleeve . I admire that and it's a fun enough seedy little ride that lets me excuse Blair's terribly campy acting throughout . Director Danny Stienmann does a bang-up job and if he'll just do another film of this caliber I promise i'll forgive him for " Friday the 13th : A New Beginning " Oh yeah , and I have to give props to John Vernon , as well , as his part , though rather small , is still greatness . Eye Candy : Linda Blair , Rebecca Perle , and Suzee Slater get topless ; Linnea Quigley shows boobs and a hint of muff ( but it's in a very unerotic scene ) ; various extras show tits , ass & bush in the obligatory shower scene BCI's 2-disc set DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Audio commentary by director Danny Steinmann ; Second commentary by actors Robert Dryer and Sal Landi & director of photography Stephen Posey ; & Third commentary by producer John Strong and actors Dryer and Johnny Venocur Disc 2 ) Interviews with Blair , Quigley , Venocur , Dryer , & Strong ; Theatrical trailer for this film ; and trailer for " Final Exam "
start off dull but it gets better	This feature length documentary hosted by Debbie Rochon which can be found on the DVD of " Killing Spree " focuses on the making of that aforementioned film and an overview of Twisted Illusion productions as a whole . The first half is a bit too cut and dry for my liking and seems way too general for my tastes . The second half is better and is actually informative , but wow even in documentaries the people can be extremely wooden . And what the hell is this martial arts comedy that Tom Ritter is talking about in one of the interview clips ? Furthermore some of the documentary is EXTREMELY pompous and long-winded .
Good Korean remake	Insurance agent , Jun-oh ( jeong-min Hwang ) goes to a house to talk to an insurance client , where he finds the hanging body of the client's son dead of an apparent suicide . But he soon feels that the young lad didn't kill himself , but was killed to get at a sizable insurance payout . When no one else seems to believe him or even care , Jun decides to get to the truth by himself by digging into the past of the troubled family . Let it be noted that I have yet to see " Kuroi ie " the 1999 Japanese adaptation of the same Yûsuke Kishi novel that this film was also based on , so I can't offer up any comparisons . That being said , I found the South Korean version of the story to be captivating enough to keep my attention throughout and marginally well acted . The film plays it's horror out mostly psychologically until it's last 40 minutes when the film goes all out Slasher and the gore becomes much more visceral . I enjoyed and recommend it . My grade : Region 1 DVD Extras : A 21 minute Making of ; Production design featurette ( 7 minute ) ; and 10 deleted scenes
Vs Wolverine is the clear winner , but Vs . Thor has some merit as well	Hulk Vs . Thor has Loki , the god of mischief controlling the Hulk by separating the green behemoth from Bruce Banner and having him rage across Asgard while Odin sleeps . This fight was a bit one-sided and neither Thor nor Loki can really hope to contain the Hulk . But I found it to be an entertaining watch none the less . Can't help but feel it went on a tad too long though . Hulk Vs . Wolverine is shorter ( no pun intended as to Logans diminutive size ) but is better in my opinion . With cameos by Lady Deathstrike , Sabertooth , Omega Red & Deadpool fans of the comics will get a kick out of this violent little tale . The Hulk himself doesn't get as much face-time as he did in ' Vs . Thor ' , but when he does unleash it's a thing of beauty to behold . DVD Extras : Vs . Thor & Vs Wolverine Commentaries both by writers Craig Kyle & Chris Yost ; a first look at Thor : Tales of Asgard ; a first look at Wolverine and the X-men ; video game trailers for the Iron man & Hulk games ; and trailers for Disaster Movie , Ultimate Avengers 1 & 2 , The Invincible Iron Man , Next Avengers , Speed Racer : the original show , Speed Racer the Next Generation : Fast Track , the Wolverine and the X-Men Nicktoon show , Doctor Strange , Shaun the Sheep : Off the Baa
Hi ' Friggen Larious	Let me preface this review by simply stating that as much as I loved ( and still do ) the Auqa Teen Hunger Force adult swim show it had lost a bit of it's luster in the forth season on was seemingly on a decline , so I approached this film with trepidation that it would be of the same diminished quality . Boy , was I glad to be proved wrong , as the movie pretty much rocked and in my eyes , at least , went far to redeem the franchise to the former glory . Of course causal movie watchers who haven't been inducted into Hunger Forces particular brand of lunacy won't get as much out of the movie , but this one is strictly for the fans anyway . And the fans are in for a real treat indeed with this tale of ATHF spanning into the past , present , & future that features most of the more memorable villains that the team have come up against in the past seasons . The movie itself plays out like an extended episode of the show ( and at times overly stretched ) But those aforementioned times are relatively few and don't really take away from the film as a whole .
not as good as the original , but enjoyable enough on it's own merits	Three typical college guys , on their way to Florida for spring break , take an unexpected detour into Pleasant Valley , an old southern town headed by the overly hospitable Mayor Buckman ( Robert Englund ) . They find that they're not the only people who took a wrong detour and are joined by more hopeful college partiers , including gasp a Negro ( Mayor Buckman words , not mine ) . Turns out the pleasant lil ' town is anything but . Of course if you're at all familiar with the original H . G . lewis classic " Two Thousand Maniacs " . And people berating the lack of story in this film , definitely have not seen the original . This , like the first one , is just pure deviant gory fun , over the top acting and all . If you only go into this film in that mindset , you'll in all likelihood enjoy the movie . It's not as good as the original , yeah . The redone them song is horrible true . But all in all this flick was fun . Eye Candy : Christa Campbell , Bianca Smith , Marla Malcolm , & Wendy Kremer show their tits ; Gina Marie Heekin only shows her ass ; while Kodi Kitchen & Cristin Michele provide both T & A DVD Extras : Commentary by co-writer / Director Tim Sullivan and actor Robert Englund ; Second commentary by Sullivan , co-writer Chris Kobins , and producer Chris Tuffin ; 42 minute " Inside the Asylum " documentary ; 37 minutes of additional / deleted / extended scenes , outtakes , 7 alternative opening ; a 6 and a half minute audition reel ; Promo Trailer ; and trailers for " Heebie Jeebies " , " the Mangler Reborn " , " Green River killer , & " Streets of legend "
nothing new yet fun ( even though a bit long )	A pair of Japanes detectives are after a body hopping alien who kills victims , hollows out their heads , and puts their respective brains in stew . If you're looking for any originality or something different , I suggest keep movie . But if you merely want a fun , solid little horror flick I say do yourself a favor and pick this one up . It's not without flaws ( it's a bit too long winded at over 2 hours , among other things ) , but it's entertaining none the less and it's a good deal better than the Director Jôji Iida's previous film " Rasen " ( which was a poor Ring sequel indeed ) DVD Extras : Fangoria article ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " School's Out " , " Slashers " , " Wilderness " , " Angel of the Night " , & " One Hell of a Christmas "
nothing that isn't already widely known	Delving into , the war with Iraq , the sadly missed opportunity to nab Bin Laden , the 2001 elections , and the Patriot Act ( not in that order ) , this documentary does bring up some good valid points , but at just around an hour or so it doesn't go into extreme detail on any of them . Nothing new can be gleamed from the film by anyone who follows politics . However it was competently made , if dry . Celsius 41 . 11 wasn't extremely slanted ( for the most part , as the last 5 minutes or so plays out like a campaign ad , complete with smiling children & happy Americans basking in the sunshine of another ' terrorist free ' day thanks to President Bush ) . If that propaganda ending was left out , and the film merely stuck to absolute facts , it would've made the whole production better .
Lookout for this film	Scott Frank as a writer is fairly generic and a tad derivative , but he's also pretty solid and when one goes into any of his films , he doesn't disappoint as they're usually tauntly told tales . This film starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt ( Third Rock from the Sun ) as Chriss Pratt a slightly mentally retarded janitor who got that way after being involved in a bad car accident , who's duped into being the lookout in a bank heist , is no exception . It's extremely watchable due to the high caliber of acting by Levitt and Jeff Daniels ass Lewis , his blind friend who was matched up with him by a social worker after the crash amongst others . One readily knows how the film will play out and there's nothing in the way of surprises . Yet the well-told , well-acted movie holds your interests throughout none the less . Eye Candy : Tinsel Korey has quite the stunning ass to behold Region 1 DVD Extras : Commentary by Scott Fran & Director of Photography Alar Kivilo ; 8 and a half minute ' behind the mind of Chriss Pratt ' featurette ; 20 minute featurette on Sequencing the Lookout ; and Trailers for " Becoming Jane " , " Eagle Vs . Shark " , " the Invisible " , " Renaissance " , " The Hoax " , " Neverwas " , & " Our very own "
Is that I as in Butterfly ?	In 2004 , a film was released that starred a ' Pretty Boy ' actor going back and forth in his memories and thinking he just may affect the past . That film was " The Butterfly Effect " . And while this film certainly feels like that one , this seems to have better acting , while that one had a super high polished , glossy charm . I enjoyed both of them , too bad that this one only got a television premiere ( in the States , at least ) Whenever I see Sarah Polley , I'm always endlessly fascinated by how much she looks like a girl I know , but that's neither here nor there . I'd recommend this flick . Where I saw it : Encore Mystery
Still remains the best in the franchise	Robert Englund , for better or worse , had his career shaped in this role as Freddy Krueger , a demonic bogeyman , enters the nightmares of teenagers that live on Elm Street to terrorize them with his homemade knife gloves as well as their own worst fears in this classic horror film that captured the hearts & minds of a generation , single handedly rescuing New Line from bankruptcy . Nancy Thompson ( Heather Langenkamp ) must figure out who this mysterious killer is and find some way to stop him despite her parents whom have something to hide . Thrilling , well-acted and having a very memorable villain , this film started a franchise wit subsequent movies never quite holding a candle to the original . In addition to it being a great horror movie , it's also notable for being Johnny Depp's debut on film . It's a damn shame that Langenkamp relied on a body double for the nude scene , only to expose her REAL assets in " Nickel Mountain " only a year later . DVD Extras : Commentary by Wes Craven , Director of Photography Jacques Haitkin , Actress Heather Langenkamp & Actor John Saxon ; Cast and Crew Bios ; and Jump to a Nightmare option ( more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set ) DVD-Rom content : Trivia game ; Screenplay ; and web link
real neat	This just short of half an hour mini-documentary can be found on the DVD of the Punisher movie and features step by step details on how they pulled the stunts of on a limited budget . I enjoyed this as stunt work intrigues me to no end . I would definitely recommend for people to check this one out after they watch the movie . Or just fans of good stunt work even , I considered becoming a stunt man in the past , but those guys do some insane stunts so I decided against it . But you know what they say . Those who can : do . Those that can't : Teach . ha ha just a little humor for you . OK enough rambling on of such nonsense this 10 line requirement sucks for short extras .
I'm listening	Gary Busey plays Reverand Nolan Powers , a preacher who preaches mainly from his radio show on WGOD . Nolan has a bit of a secret revolving his runaway younger brother whom his mother always loved more then him . Movies and TV shows featuring a less than holy religious feature are pretty much a dime a dozen . However , that being said , this episode is pretty well acted especially by Busey who really seems to dig in to the role . Making it one of the better episodes . The ending is suitably spooky . This is one of the episodes that can be found on disc 2 of Volume 1 of the US release .
the last even half-way decent film in the franchise	The last Halloween film that was even halfway decent , this one picks up years after the events of Part 2 ( part 3 was a stand-alone story having nothing to do with Mike Myers and the least said of that film , the better ) . Micheal awakens from a coma and escapes from the transport that was moving him to another hospital to continue his rampage of death & destruction . This time the focus of his killing rage is not on Laurie Strode , but his nephew Jamie Lloyd , a young girl who is petrified by the concept of Halloween and has visions of Myers . This was the most intense one behind the original of course . But just a word of warning : watch parts 1 , 2 , and 4 ONLY . After that you're on your own and I won't be held responsible for the unneeded trauma you'll endure by being a cinema maschocist and enduring the other truly awful movies in the series . Eye Candy : Kathleen Kinmont gets topless DVD Extras : 17 minute " Final Cut " featurette ; and Theatrical Trailer Notes : Mine came in a limited edition tin casing
Will NOT change the way you have sex , but fun none the less	The legendary , sadly deceased Alex De Renzy directed this film that has Jokn Leslie introducing a series of porn vignettes . The first dealing with a totally ' 80's Lois Ayres all punked out with a superb Mohawk going on ( some people not as prone to loving the 1980's as me may think that's a detriment , whereas I dug it ) . She's topless sunbathing while her family's away . Jamie Gillis and Dan T . Mann are street cop looking for a Perp when they stumble onto Lois , sooner than you can say threesome , they are participating in just that . The scene was very hot . The next scene featuring Gina Carrera and Jacqueline Lorians as roommates who share more then toothbrushes ( if you know what I mean ) , while extremely well filmed , wasn't nearly as good as that first scene . Thankfully the third & fifth scenes MORE than made up for that . Those two ( starring Nina Hartley and Ginger Lynn respectively ) are both smoking and reason enough for any porn aficionado to give this one a go . Sadly scene 4 , being sandwiched in between two amazing scenes comes out lacking . And the last one with a solo Joanna Storm is totally lifeless and stale . All in all I do still recommend the film though .
I remember this one being hot	Traci Lords as Jackie and Tom Byron as Bill have car trouble and or stranded out in nowhere . They walk until they come to this house owned by Eric Edwards as Jake and Ginger Lynn Allen as Louise . They beckon the hapless couple to spend the night and introduce them to the other couples . So naturally this calls for an orgy . This review being mostly out of memory , , that and wall to wall sex almost is all I remember , oh and there's a supernatural horror twist . As I recall , when I saw it back in the day , it was VERY hot indeed . But who knows , maybe that's looking back with rose-tinted glasses , seeing as Tracy starred in it I highly doubt I'll get a chance to go back and see if it was as good as I seem to remember it being .
Building a better mousetrap	Tom the cat takes great pride in the new mouse trap he deigned and dreams of how he will get rich by patenting it . But while he's sleeping the drawling of the mouse comes off the piece of paper and wakes Jerry the Mouse up to sabotage Tom's plans . They must first contend with a dawning of a cat who has also come to life first . This short was rather amusing but it was a tad experimental ( not nearly as much as the later " Blue Cat Blues ) I just like it more when Tom and Jerry can actually be Tom and Jerry . This animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set .
entertaining despite a conclusion you see coming from a mile away	Richard Shepard ( Micheal O'Keefe ) crashes at his friend's place after his wife kicks him out . His friend has to leave for New York , but Rich is not alone as he finds a mysterious dog that does his murderous bidding . He also goes bat-spit insane for no apparent reason . I enjoyed this episode even if the ' suprise ' reveal was a foregone conclusion and could be figured out rather early on . Still the acting is good and it's fun enough to be one of the better episodes of the series . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker . It also has optional commentary by Director Phillip Noyce & Lewis Chesler ( who produced 2 episodes of the series , but neither one of them is this , so I don't really get his inclusion ) Eye Candy : Jennifer Cooke gets topless
an unexpected Joy	A couple of punk kids use a CB to prank off the wrong guy in this above average teen thriller . I say above average , but as far as teen thrillers go , with " I know what you did last summer " , " Urban Legends " , and their ilk cluttering up the sub-genre , a movie like this is frigging ' Macbeth . Not to say this film is without flaws , Leelee Sobieski is pretty wooden in her role as Venna and there are plot holes that you can even drive Rusty Nail's truck through . However it does create some good tension , so I'm willing to overlook that . Fox DVD Extras : Commentary by Director John Dahl ; 2nd commentary by Writes Clay Tarver and J . J . Abrams ; 3rd Commentary by Steve Zahn and Leelee Sobrieski ; Making-of ; Deleted scenes ; 4 alternate endings ; Voice auditions for Rusty Nail ; White Rabbit type Branching option ; Theatrical trailer
Tanner rules	Aging hard-drinking has-been minor league baseball star Morris Buttermaker ( Walter Matthau ) is hired to coach a ragtag team of misfits known as the Bears in little league . Actually winning a game seems all in vain , until Buttermaker brings in two ringers , Amanda Whurlizer ( Tatum O'Neal ) and Kelly Leak ( Jackie Haley ) . This film is not the modern day classic that a lot of people seem to think it is , but it's enjoyable cute enough . The best part of the film is Chris Barnes as the foul-mouthed Tanner . This is one of the very few films that I have no gripes with being remade , and actually look forward to Richard Linklater's Billy Bob Thornton version ( provided the keep the more un-PC moments intact )
just braggin ' about Dagon	Paul Marsh and his girlfriend Barbara have to go to a fishing village off the coast of Spain after a grisly boating accident leave the wife of his friend in dire need of emergency assistance . Paul has no choice but to leave his girl in town while he and help from some villagers return to the boat to help his friends , whom have mysteriously disappeared . Upon returning for Barbara he finds her missing as well and the entire community after him for some unknown reason . This film based on a combination of two of the great H . P . Lovecraft short stories ( " Dagon " , and " The Shadow over Innsmouth ) has enough tension , and thrills to make it almost as good as " Re-animator " , but it doesn't have nearly the same manic energy of said movie . It only loses some steam towards the end . Eye Candy : both Macarena Gomez and Raquel Meroño get topless DVD Extras : Commentary with director Stuart Gordon and screenwriter Dennis Paoli ; Second commentary with Stuart Gordon and actor Ezra Godden ; Storyboards for 3 scenes ; Production artwork & sketches ; and Theatrical Trailer Easter Egg : Hidden Lion's Gate logo on the main page gives you trailers for " Crocodile 2 " , and " Frailty "
that fish is fishy	Spike the dog is guarding a watering hole , but he appears to be sleeping on the job . So Tom the cat uses the chance to sneak in hoping to get a little fishing in , using Jerry the mouse as bait of course . But thanks to an over eager fish who wants the mouse badly things don't go as planned . As the fish inadvertently wakes Butch up to get the drop on Tom . I mentioned in an earlier review how I didn't really like the Buzzard / Vulture in Flirty Birdy , well the same can be said about the fish in this one . It's an OK short , but not one of the better ones . This cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
a fairly solid Korean slasher	The film starts off with a morgue attendant sewing the eyes of a recent corpse shut , when he leaves the copses eyes pop back open . Flash forward two years and Sun-ae returns to South Korea after being abroad in America for two years appearing to be afraid of a ghost , Kyung-ah whom committed suicide , that she believes is following her around and the spirit wants revenge on something that wronged her . Now someone is murdering her friends . The movie alternates between flashbacks and modern day to create quite a good deal of tension throughout . The acting is good and although I pretty much knew where the plot was going fairly often on , I still enjoyed it . Now I'm looking forward to the directors next film , " Phone " which I heard nothing but good things about . Media Blasters DVD Extras : Making of ; Nightmare on Television Promo ; Theatrical Trailer ; and trailers for " Attack the Gas Station " , " Terror Taxi " , " Choking Hazard " , " Rojo Sangre " , " Hiruko the Goblin " , " One Missed Call " , & " Samurai Resurrection " Notes : Comes with a holographic slip cover
better then expected	Chris ( Desmond Harrington ) is late for a job interview , the highway is backed up so he decides to see if he can find another route . A dead deer cause him to take his eyes of the backroad & hits another car that has Eliza Dushku & friends it it . Now they're lost in the woods of West Virginia with a deranged family after them . This one surprised me as i wasn't expecting much . But it has good scares & keeps you tense thoughout most of the film . DVD Extras : Commentary with Rob Schmidt , Desmond & Eliza ; 2 deleted scenes & a deleted scene dailies ; " Fresh meat the wounds of Wrong turn " docu ; poster concepts ; theatrical trailer ; Making of wrong turn featurette ; Stan Winston featurette ; Eliza : Babe in the words
growing up in the east side	Bugs Bunny now a big star in LA tells gossip columnist Lola Beverly of his humble beginnings growing up in New York in particular facing a gang of street tough dogs . Of course outwitting these canine ruffians is no problem for young Bugs . This short is fairly humorous if nothing special , Bugs doesn't even have to use his razor sharp wit in this one as the dogs are pretty much on the dumb side . That being said , it was STILL a Bugs cartoon and I find myself entertained by every short of his just because of that ( unless the shorts happens to be directed by Robert McKimson ) . This animated short can be found on Disk 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 set .
too much naked Sylvester	Sylvester the Cat is left alone in his house all by his lonesome by his neglectful owners who lock him in with nothing to eat or drink . He finds a stash of canned tuna , but a deviant mouse has stolen the can opener and holds it just out of his reach , needlessly tormenting him . This is a somewhat amusing shot , but the mouse is just being a dick for the sake of being a dick which kind of tainted the overall feel of the short a tad . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 and features an optional commentary by Jerry Beck .
Back on the right track . . . almost	Misogynistic , conceited Eddie Cantrow ( Ben Stiller ) quickly realizes what a mistake he made in marrying Lila ( Malin Akerman ) and seeks to remedy the situation when he meets another girl while on his honeymoon in Mexico . Bobby and Peter Farrelly had much to redeem themselves for after the horrendously unfunny Stuck on You and simply blandly unfunny Fever Pitch , and this was a good return to form for them to attempt to recapture the glory that they attained from the mid-nineties through 2001 . Well a good start anyway , as this film has a few flaws ( the mere fact that Carlos Mencia is even in it is a huge minus ) It's also more then a tad more sexist , misogynistic , and crass than any of their previous work , which might turn off many prospective viewers . However on a whole I did enjoy the film and laughed quite a few times . In full disclosure it's possibly that I enjoyed it more because the last film I saw in the theaters before this was Good Luck Chuck and pretty much ANYthing would've seemed great compared to that particular crap-fest . Eye Candy : Malin Akerman shows boobs and bush , Kayla Kleevage shows her amazingly huge tits
Could have used some trimming to make it better and tighter	After receiving a ' Dear John ' letter , a returning WW2 soldier murders his now ex-girlfriend and her new beau at a graduation dance with a pitchfork . Thirty-five years later , the town finally sees fit to have another Graduation night dance , but as the dance returns , so does the killer . A simply all right slasher film with above-average gore , it would've been a lot better with like 10 or 15 minutes of lame plot taken out of the film . However overall I managed to enjoy it for a what it was , a low budget slasher film that stands out only a bit from other slasher films of the glorious 1980's because of the the Savani-made gory kills which the Blue Underground DVD thankfully presents in uncut form . Eye Candy : Lisa Dunsheath provides T & A Blue Underground DVD Extras : Commentary with producer / director Joseph Zito , and special make-up effects artist Tom Savini ; 9 & a half minute Behind the scenes gore footage with Tom Savini ; Still & poster gallery ; and Theatrical trailer
of to a good start , format may take a bit getting used to	We're introduced to the lives of flatmates office worker , Mark Corrigan and aspiring musician Jeremy Osborne ( David Mitchell and Robert Webb , respectively ) as they both via for the attention of neighbor Toni . Coming into this show knowing nothing except the rave reviews of it , I hadn't a clue what to really expect . I did enjoy this episode very British humour , very dry and cringe worthy ( in a good way ) . The whole inner thoughts set-up will take a bit of getting used to , but I'll definitely give this show another shot and if it keeps the feel of the pilot episode , I'll not be hesitant to recommend it to others in the least bit . My grade :
the role Reiko Ike was born to play	Ocho ( Reiko Ike ) , decades after witnessing her father's merciless death , sets out on a quest to find the three responsible for the travesty and exact revenge . In her travels she befriends a handsome your anarchist who's involved with a European spy ( the beautiful Christina Lindberg , perhaps best known for her " Thriller " film ) . This sexy spy along with co-horts wants to dismantle the country from within . All this comes together in a cinematic experience that has to be seen to be believed . Probably very controversial when it was released in Japan of the early ' 70's , the films more ' outragious ' scenes ( the battle in which Ocho is completely nude amongst others ) seem almost quaint now , yet the film retains it's beautiful , almost poetic feel and is definitely one to actively search out . Followed by a sequel that couldn't really reach the same level as this had .
enjoy the speed , put your brain on auto-pilot	Nick Cage is Randall Raines , a retired car thief who is forced out of retirement when he's forced to save his the life of his brother Kip ( Giovanni Ribisi ) when he screws up on a job , by completing his brothers job of stealing 50 cars in one night . He has to get together his old crew that he can trust to help him pull it off and get his bro out of dutch . But the cops are onto him , so can he pull it off ? This was one of the great candidates of a film to re-make as the Original was far from a classic . And if you don't go into it expecting much , and turn the thinking portion of your brain off so you can ignore the plot hole ans just take the movie for what it is . You'll end up enjoying the ride . Watch it on a double-bill with " The Fast and the Furious " for a night of high-speed hijinks , just don't take the car out for a spin right afterwards . DVD Extras : 7 minute Jerry Bruckheimer Interview ; Bruckheimer Bio / Filmography ; Action Overload : Highlight Reel ; The Big Chase ; " 0 To 60 " featurette ; " Wild Rides " featurette ; Stars On The Move ; The Cult " Painted On The Heart " music video ; Theatrical Trailer , and Trailers for " Shanghai Noon " , " Mission to Mars " and " Coyote Ugly "
The last of the Bear family is the best	The last of the cartoons featuring the three bears features Junyer celebrating Father's day much to the chagrin and broken bones of Pa . I have to say that the three bear characters were far from my favorites , but this last one was the best that they ever got . Which granted was a little above average , but that should count for something , right ? This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier that is pretty informative , as well as a music and effect only track .
The Rodney Dangerfield of Horror films	The great Cameron Mitchell is a masked maniac who kills the inhabitants with nail guns , screwdrivers & hammers , before kidnapping Laurie Ballard , a typical yet innocent 15 year old ( played by Pamelyn Ferdin who is such a vegetarian that apparently she didn't even accept meaty roles ) . I really don't understand the general disdain for this fine grind-house film , especial by horror aficionados . The first 30 minutes are classic bloody grind-house shenanigans , while the rest is fun in a hokey , unintentionally humorous dialog type of way . And there's no doubt that Cameron played great nut cases in his career . Better than Tope Hooper's drab and lifeless 2004 re-make ( or re-imagining , rather ) Eye Candy : Marciee Drake gets topless ; Kelly Nichols gets fully nude ; and extra nudity in the DVD menus & Extras Blue Underground DVD Extras : Commentary with producer Tony Didio , cinematographer Gary Graver and actress Pamelyn Ferdin ; an interview with actress Marianne Walter ( AKA Kelly Nichols ) ; Poster & still gallery ; movie poster reproduction ; Cameron Mitchell biography ; TV spot ; 2 Radio spots ; and Theatrical trailer
Inside the Spaceship ( episodes 12 & 13 )	No sooner have the Doctor and his companions left the planet of Skaro and the Deleks behind then the TARDIS has control trouble and knocks everyone out via small explosion , seemingly no control over the ship and strange occurrences happening , combined with Barbara and Susan both having slight cases of amnesia suspicions of each other come to the forefront . While this minimalistic two-parter wasn't as good as the two serials that preceded it , it was still watchable in it's on way . And was the first episode to deal with TARDIS having conscience and being alive , a plot point that would be revisited later in the Who mythology . Now seeing that the serial after this , Marco Polo , is sadly lost to time at this point , I'll continue my reviews with the Keys of Marinus .
bridging the gap	Catherine Tate showed up in the last few moments of the second series finale of Doctor Who as a woman on her wedding day who inexplicably pops up in the TARDIS , much to the perplexment of the Doctor . Which served to carry on into the Christmas special where we learn her name , Donna , and back story . Perhaps this is because the character of Rose was such an integral part of Doctor Who since the latest incarnation , perhaps it's because I found Donna to be quite annoying for the first 20 or so minutes of this special , perhaps because the first half seemed to be a bit of fun , but insubstantial fluff . In all probability a combination of the three aforementioned gripes , but I couldn't help but feel that this wasn't as good as last year's special . Not to say it was bad at all , on the contrary it DID pick up steam greatly after the first 20 minutes and I ended up enjoying it overall . Still I'm glad that Tate isn't going to be the next companion . I can't wait for the new series ! !
McLean's first full length film holds a lot of promise	Based rather loosely on the story of killer Bradley John Murdoch , this film follows the misadventures of three friends who get stuck at Wolf Creek , a National Park in the Outback , while on a camping trip . The first half of the films revolves around creating empathy for the young adults , it succeeds only somewhat , as they are a tad more relatable than your average cannon fodder in these type of films , but it is slow and will off-put horror fans who have been spoiled by shoddy ' wham , bam , thank you Ma'am ' type tripe that rely solely on special effects at the lack of characterization of any kind . The second half of the film is where the movie comes into it's own , creating an aura of tension that's pretty thick , although never ascending into the totally relentless and ultra-violent depravity that the hype machine has labeled it as . Perhaps it's because I , as a horror fan , have grown extremely jaded and desensitized to movie violence . But I found the film more scary psychologically than anything else . It is definitely worth a watch ( Plus there's no bulls cop out ending like some movies cough Haute Tension cough ) Unrated DVD Extras : Commentary by Director / Writer Greg McLean , Co-producer Matt Hearn , and actresses Cassandra Magrath , & Kestie Morassi ; a 50 minute Making of ; 1 Deleted scene ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Scary Movie 4 " , " Pulse " , & " The Matador "
The best Tweety short	Sylvester ( here called Thomas ) the cat first meets Tweety bird in the debut cartoon of the duo that would go onto star in a great many lackluster efforts . This was the best of the bunch which trust me isn't saying that much at all as I actively loathe Tweety bird as a character and always tried to avoid his shorts when I was a kid . Perhaps if the first one didn't win an Oscar the Tweety shorts wouldn't have been so numerous , but who knows , perhaps that's merely wishful thinking on my part . This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and also features an optional commentary by Greg Ford .
Enjoyable if uninspired	A group of elderly mercenaries headed by Col . Faulkner , Capt . Janders , and Lt . Fynn & Janders ( Richard Burton , Richard Harris , Roger Moore and Hardy Kruger , respectively ) are sent to Central Africa to rescue an opposition leader whom has been kidnapped two years earlier . The plan goes on pretty well until double crossing abounds . The story might come off as slightly clichéd and stereotypical , but the action and the superb acting rescue this from being " just another war film " . Hardly inspired , yet still highly watchable . Followed by a sequel that isn't worth the celluloid stock that it was printed on . DVD Extras : Commentary by Producer Euan Lloyd , Actor Roger Moore & journalist Jonathan Sothcott ; " The Last of the Gentleman Producers " featurette ; 24 minute Making of ; Premiere footage from Movitone News ; Jump to a combat scene option ; Star Bios ; Radio spots ; and Theatrical trailer
She walked out with empty arms , machine gun in her hand	Based on a novel be Patty herself , this film is very suspect on the actual truth , but Director Paul Schrader does a pretty good job at making the film of Hearst's kidnapping by and subsequently joining with the moronic Symbionese Liberation Army compelling throughout the duration of the film . Opting for a seemingly objective approach despite the source material . Nothing new revolving the case will be gleamed for watching this though , and one will take from it the exact same view as what one goes into it with . Personally , I don't or can't sympathize with spoiled rich girl turned violent revolutionary turned praised celebrity Hearst , but I know that there are many that do . Natasha Richardson as Patty gives a serviceable , if nothing special , job . And Ving Rhames gives a good job himself as the cliché spewing leader of the pitifully sad SLA . This movie is also widely known to be the last of Paul Schrader's films to be any good at all , so there's always that . Eye Candy : Natasha Richardson gets topless
not as good as the other two races , but still funny .	The third and finale race between Bugs and Cecil turtle is the least hilarious of the three , but it's still pretty funny at times . This time has Bugs reading Aesop's fables while relaxing . when he gets to the end of the story he's flabbergasted that the fairy tale had the Hare losing the race . So he challenges Cecil ( whom he doesn't seem to remember from the other two times ) to a race . As I said before the other two cartoons are funnier and more well paced than this one . The gag of the enhanced rocket shell also seems to be a tad long in the tooth , but I still had fun with the short . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
One of my guilty pleasure	Poor geeky Marty ( Simon Scuddamore ) gets horribly burned due to a cruel April Fool's day stunt gone very wrong . Flash forward a decade and those involved ( including Caroline Monroe , known to horror fans for her turns in Maniac , Faceless & the Last Horror Film ) in the prank are psyched for the upcoming 10 year high school reunion not aware that a court jester-masked killer is hiding out in the ( now closed down ) school and out for revenge . Chaulk this one up to being a guilty pleasure , I knew it's a bad film . It has all the characteristics of one . Yet there's just something about it that makes me feel compelled to watch it from time to time ( preferably with beer in hand ) . I'm even willing to overlook the absolutely horrid ending ( which , I do have to say , I hate ) I guess I like it because it has a fun atmosphere about it and some pretty cool kills . Eye Candy ( for the men ) : Josephine Scandi & Donna Yeager both get topless Eye Candy ( for the ladies ) : a gratuitous cock shot of Simon Scuddamore at the start of the film Lionsgate DVD Extras : Optional trivia track ; trailer for this film ; and trailers for My Bloody Valentine ( 1981 ) , Monster Squad , Dirty Dancing
not as horrid as it's made out to be ( almost reached guilty pleasure status )	Gay Howard , a prisoner convicted of white-collar crimes masterminds a prison break while his fellow prisoners are being transported . They succeed and hole up in a local mall where they take hostages and try to make demands of the police who surround the place . Unfortunately for the criminals a former mercenary and all-round tough guy , Rudy Ray ( Mickey Rourke ) is after them , in no small part because his brother is one of the escaped prisoners . Check your brain at the door for this one , folks . It's all about explosions and lots of gunfire . None of it makes much sense under scrutiny and the films ever so slightly homophobic ( I referred to Howard as ' gay Howard ' earlier in the review as the film makes it abundantly clear ) . The action is good , if utterly ridiculous and the film apes from MUCH better films ( Die Hard , Leon , etcetera ) , but fans of Rourke or Danny Trejo ( who is suitably over-the-top as the ' crazy ' villain ) will enjoy this flick . Just don't expect anything more than a fun little weightless diversion . It feels more like an ' 80's film than one for the late ' 90's though . My B-movie grade :
slice of ( homicidal ) life	This 3 minute short film has to do with the titular Laura Panic ( Hannah Hughes ' Isabella ' from " 1 , 000 Year Sleep " ) as she goes about her business of stalking her potential love interest ( Lane Hughes , ' the killer ' from " 1 , 000 year Sleep " ) . Of the three short films of Adam Wingard's that can be found as extras on the DVD of " Home Sick " , I think that I enjoyed this one the most . Even though it deals with rather heady subject matter , there's an air of lightness around it , whimsy even , if I may be so bold . Doesn't hurt that the lead was pretty cute .
Travelings across the Borderland	Based on the Matamoros Cult Killings , this film finds three friends traveling to Mexico for a little wine , women & song . When one of them , Phil ( Boy Meet World's Rider Strong ) gets kidnapped , it's up to the other two along with help from a few local girls ad a Mexican cop who had lost his partner to the cult to find a way to save him . But time is fleeting as the dark gods demand a sacrifice . This has been compared to Eli Roth's " Hostel " and I can see some validity there , albeit small , as both films are quite graphic , but whereas Eli throws up gore just for the sake of gore , the extreme violence in this film is actually integral to the story at hand . Zev Berman has crafted a cautionary tale about human cruelty and the monsters that lie within . The film's a little slow going to introduce the trio of friends but that methodical to give them as much personalty as Zev could . It gets quite intense toward the end . While I can't really say I enjoyed the film , I ca say I respected it . DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Zev Berman , Actor Brian Presley , Director of Photography Scott Kevan , and Producer Lauren Moews ; 2 featurettes ( Rituals de Sangre , & Inside Zev's Head ) the former being the real life account while the latter is a video diary ; Miss Horrorfest Contest Webisodes ; Trailers for " the Eye " remake , " Wristcutters : a love story " ; and Promos for Fear . net , Horrorfest 2007 , & After Dark : 8 Films to Die for
Cute	Elmer Fudd is settling in for the night when he's constantly disrupted by Sylvester cat's singing . Fudd will go to any lengths to get a good night sleep , which makes the ending all the more funny . This is just simply a cute cartoon with all the singing and commotion and what not . It's a remake though which I can't help but hold against this short , but it's still good for what it is . That being a musical centric cartoon . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and also features an optional commentary by Greg Ford .
the second outing of Sorbo as Hercules is better than the first	This , the second of five TV movies that would lead up to the Hercules TV show , starts of with a giant coming to do battle with Hercules ( Kevin Serbo ) . Afterwards , Herc is beckoned to help the people of the lost city of Troy escape the clutches of Hera , the queen of the Gods in the form of a water creature this time . So accompanied by Deianeira , a girl he saved from sacrifice to the Gods , despite her wishes , he goes off on a new quest to find the fabled kingdom . Even though I missed Michael Hurst as Iolaus in this one , I enjoyed seeing Robert Trebor ( who would go onto the series later on ) as the comic relief as Waylin the Slave . All in all , I found this film to be better than the first outing , but it's still not as good as the eventual show would become . Also In my previous review of " Hercules and the Amazon Women " , I was extremely remiss in not mentioning the late Anthony Quinn as Zeus , well he's great in this as well as all the other Hercules telemovies .
Herc is married with children ? ?	In this fourth made for TV movie that preceded the series , Hercules ( Kevin Serbo ) now married with children to Deianeira ( Tawny Kitaen ) , is summoned once again by towns-person this time to beat a boxer . A while later , he goes on a quest with Iole , a maiden who supposedly steals men away from their wives , to save her people by going to Hades . . A jealous Deianeira when she can't dissuade for from his sense of duty , gives him a " cloak of Faithfulness " instead . There's more to it than that but I'm not about to spoil it , just now that the best parts of this one are in the first 10 minutes and the last 30 or so . This is my second favorite of the five that were made before the actual show ( which was better than them all )
William's great performance raises this film above what it would be	Sy Parrish ( Robin Williams ) is a lonely sociopathic one hour photo mat developer who has his eye on worming his way into the life of the Yorkin family ( one of his regular customers ) , who are having some family problems of their own . But make no mistake , Williams is the star of the show here and his performance is phenomenal . And if you can get past the HUGE plot-hole that he could ever steal duplicates of the photos he makes for YEARS and never get caught ( granted that IS a bit much to swallow ) , as where as a few other plot holes , none as glaring , you'll find that this is an enjoyable enough thriller . Robin brings it above average and if he weren't in the film it would've suffered greatly in his absence . Eye Candy : Erin Daniels bares all ( if fleetingly ) , and an extra shows all in picture form DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Mark Romanek and Actor Robin Williams ; Cinemax Making Of ; a 36 minute excerpt from " the Charlie Rose Show " ; A " Sundance : Anatomy Of A Scene " episode on the film ; 3 TV spots ; Theatrical trailer ; and Trailer for " The Dancer Upstairs "
watch it for Scott's great performance	George C . Scott stars in this Paul Schrader vehicle as Jake VanDorn , a man of a different , more simple era whom finds himself thrust into the seamy underbelly of the pornography business after his daughter , Kristen , goes missing . The police are no help and the sleazy private investigator he hires ( played superbly by Peter Boyle ) is not much better . Jake tries hopelessly to keep his unvarnished soul intact as he looks for his daughter . This is a well-acted , well written , well directed film that kept me riveted . . . to a point . That point being the horrible studio required cop-out ending that forces the film to tie everything up in a neat little bow at the detriment of what could have otherwise been a classic . Tis a shame . Eye Candy : Linda Morell shows her heavy hangers ; Season Hubley shows everything ; Ilah Davis provides T & A ; Gigi Vorgan , Leslie Ackerman , & Serena get topless as well
very nice sequel	Picking up directly after Part 1 , Laurie Strode is now in a hospital from the wounds that Micheal Myers inflicted on her . But Myers isn't done with her yet and pursues her to the hospital continuing to kill anyone in his way . Mike is also being pursued by the just as devoted Sam Loomis . The first sequel to " Halloween " , while not as good as the first , nor in my mind the great forth film , is still very tense , thrilling and worth watching for any fan of slasher films . The only three " halloween " films that hold up to repeat viewing by , by the way , are the original ( naturally ) , this , and Part 4 ( the third had nothing to do with Myers at all , the less said of that film the better ) DVD Extras : Production Notes ; Cast & Crew Filmographies ; and Theatrical Trailer
better then Bill and Ted	Alex Winter plays Ricky Coogan , a snobby full of himself actor who agrees to be a spokesman for a risky illegal drug . He , his friend , and a bitchy activist decide to go to a freak show on a spur of the moment . But the owner has more evil plans in store , so he takes them out back and turns them into mutants who he'll add to his collection and make perform in his freak shows . It's up to him and the other freaks that he befriends to rise up . Once the psychedelic credit sequence started playing accompanied with a cool Henry Rollins tune , I knew I was onto something good , I just didn't know how great what followed would be . You'll KNOW if you're gonna love this film or hate it within the first 10 minutes . I reside firmly in the love it group . This film will never win an Oscar or any other " prestigise " award . It will never be on any critic's top ten list . But if you have an off-kilter sense of humor , you will , like I , adore this film . How can you go wrong with great roles by Mr . T as a bearded lady , Bobcat Goldthwait at the height of his career as a guy with a sock for a head , or Rastafarian eyeball ? And while a few of the jokes misfire and the ending does seem to lose steam , when the film is on , i'ts REALLY on . 2-disc DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary with co-writers / co-directors Tom Stern and Alex Winter ; behind the scenes feaurette ; A Conversation with Writer Tim Burns ; 2 Deleted Scenes ( unlike most deleted scenes THESE are good , I just wish there were more ) ; Art Gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Dirty Mary , Crazy Larry " , " Modern Problems " and " License to Drive " Disc 2 ) the 84 minute Rehearsal Version ; script readings ; backstage footage ; construction of Freak Land ; makeup footage ; and 2 short films by Tom Stern and Alex Winter ( " Squeal of Death " & " NYU Sight & Sound Project " ) DVD Rom : Screenplay in . Pdf format 1 Easter Egg : click on the round picture above the Extras banner for Tim Burns telling of his favorite lines
The best Hazel short	Witch Hazel is simply delighted to be the ugliest witch ever as told to her by her magic mirror . That is until Bugs Bunny shows up trick-or-treating . The mirror mistaking the rabbit's mask for his real face soon rescinds the title that he gave Hazel as ugliest and bestows it on Bugs . Which of course infuriates Hazel to no end . This is another great Looney Tunes short , and while I was never the biggest fan of Witch Hazel , this is one of the best cartoons with her in it . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by legendary voice actress June Foray who seems to remember quite a lot . Plus , the short has a musical score and effects only track as well .
good low-budget rape / revenge flick	A shy , introverted nerd girl , Rikki Moore ( Angelique Hennessy in her first leading role ) gets invited to a party by a popular high school football player , whom promptly rapes her . His jealous ex-girlfriend than has poor Rikki's image tarnished within the halls of the school . But undeterred Miss Moore chooses to get even with all involved in this low-budget horror film homage to I spit on your Grave and Carrie . Well acted , good characterization , and nice effective kills put this ahead of the pack for films of the same budget . It's a slow-burner for sure , but well worth sticking around for the film's duration . DVD Extras : Trailers for " Distortion " , " Death by Engagement " , " Tweek City " , " The Brink " , " the Champagne Gang " , & " Cult " ( the first 2 trailers ONLY play upon putting the DVD in )
A would-be franchise that sadly wasn't	Master swordsman Captain Kronos ( Horst Janson of " Murphy's War " , " Shout at the Devil " , and " escape from East Berlin ) , along with his trusted hunchbacked assistant , searches for a vampire or vampires whom have been sucking the woman of a small town dry , in this swashbuckling vampire-hunting later day Hammer film . It's an interesting one to say the least and one could tell that it might have started a franchise if only the timing was right , but alas it wasn't and it turned out to sadly be one more nail in the coffin of Hammer's eventual demise . A shame really , as this was one of their better offerings of their last years . DVD Extras : Commentary by Historian Jonathan Sothcott , writer / director / producer Brian Clemens , and actress Caroline Monro
one of Demme's better films	After being sent to prison for no less then 10 nor more then 40 years for being busted with drugs and refusing to give up her accomplishes , Jackie ( Erica Gavin of Russ Meyer's " Vixen " and " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " , in her last film role ) has to get accustomed to life in the big ' doll ' house , or at least try to , in this early film by Jonathan Demme . Due to it's tawdry nature and sheer watchability , I would also rank this as one of his best films , right below " Silence of the Lambs " and " Stop Making Sense " , but so far above any of his other movies . This minor classic is just campy , sleazy , and fun enough to be an amazingly good guilty pleasure and thankfully never once goes overboard into all out parody of the Women In Prison genre . It ALMOST washed out the rancid bad taste of the ludicrously preachy " Philidelphia " from my mouth . However , the film is not without it's downfalls ( the ' un'talent show is a HUGE chore to sit through and goes on far too long , Barbera Steele is sadly wasted , among other small things ) But don't let those gripes stop you from watching an otherwise enjoyable movie . DVD Extras : 5 minute Roger Corman interview ; Cast & crew Bios ; Original Trailer ; and Trailers for " Candy Stripe Nurses " ( with nudity ) , " Big Bad Mama 2 " , " Big Doll House " ( with nudity ) , & " Crazy Mama " Eye Candy : Juanita Brown , Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith , Erica Gavin , Roberta Collins , Ella Reid , Lynda Gold , and some others all show skin
Better than " For Ladies Only "	In his fifth comedy special Andrew Dice Clay is still funny but the special still doesn't hit the heights of " Dice Rules " as the best Diceman special ever in my opinion , " The Diceman Cometh " You get a tad less than an hour of comedy after the lackluster boxing opening skit . His best jokes of course revolve around various sexual acts as well as making fun of selected audience members . Sadly a few ' topical ' jokes makes this special somewhat dated . But it IS a good return to form after the lackluster " For Ladies Only " special . Eye Candy : a female audience member quickly flashes
Among Fulci's best	Carol Hammond is having bizarre recurring dreams which she is going to a psychiatrist to find the meaning of . In her subsequent later dreams she finds herself killing her promiscuous nubile neighbor . when the aforementioned neighbor is then found murdered in real life with Carol's penknife found at the scene she becomes a prime suspect . Shriek Show dropped the ball with this one somewhat . With the shorter American " Schizord " version getting a better transfer , while the original Italian version is relegated to the second disc . It doesn't look as good and is in full-screen . It's great to own this at all , but I was somewhat disheartened . That being said , this is one of Fulci's best , if somewhat dated , Giallos It keeps you guessing , and is never boring . Anchor Bay 2-DVD set Extras : Disc 1 ) USA " Schizoid " version ; Radio spots ; US Trailer ; Trailers for " Zombi 2 " , " City of the Living Dead " , " Touch of Death " , " House of Clocks " , " Sweet House of Horrors " , " Demonia " , and " Death Trance " Disc 2 ) 98 minute Italian version , 33 minute " Shedding the Skin " documentary , and Photo Gallery 1 Easter Egg : go to the ' Scene access ' , Go to chapter 4 , then press right , in the lower-left of the screen you'll see a highlighted bat . Press play for 2 deleted scenes . Eye Candy : Florida Bolken , Anita Strindberg ; various extras show boobs and butts
not really as comprehensive as I would have liked	This documentary can be found on the fourth disk on the Complete Adventures of Indiana Jones box set and is split into three segments , each having to do with each of the three movies , the most interesting segment is the first part as it's the most informative , not to say that the other two segments are not , but the second segment features way too much apologizing for " Temple of Doom " , listen that movie is great and there's no reason to apologize for it in the least , the third segment on " the Last Crusade " is pretty interesting and all , but they leave out some stuff that I would have loved to hear more about in all three segments such as the Barbera Streisand incident , and some others . But what we do get is still pretty cool I enjoyed seeing some Indy auditions and the interviews were OK , and it was nice to see how stuff came together , but it just could've been more .
flawed yet highly enjoyable	Six friends ( including Jeremy Sisto from " May " ) on their way to a wedding ( the bride is Ellen Degenerous lover and " Arrested Development " ' s Portia De Rossi ) , stop for some much needed rest at a local bed & breakfast run by the prolific David Carradine and french chef ( Diedrich Bader from " The Drew Carey show " fame ) . When those two are found dead later on that night , the local cops suspect them and order them to stay in the town . Soon nearly the whole town is zombiefied . I would say more but don't want to ruin anything . It takes a little while for the gory fun to kick in , but when it does , it does so with a vengeance . Not realistic grue , more in the vain of early Peter Jackson and Sam Raimi ( ie . very fun and cool ) Some of the jokes fail , I personally could have done without the musical interludes , the ending is way too abrupt , and even a little nudity would have bumped a movie like this up a tad . But I'd definitely add this to my DVD collection when it eventually gets there ( hopefully an unrated version with lots of extras , perhaps 2 disk set hint hint )
Amber Lynn is watchable in anything	Amber Lynn ( Friday the 13th : A Nude Beginning , The Grafenberg Spot , Holly Does Hollywood ) is Jane Bond , a drop dead sexy secret agent who goes after Golden Rod . Control ( Robert Bullock ) has to save her when she's hypnotized by the bad guy . The acting is of the same caliber as you would expect from these type of movies , but one hardly watches these things for acting prowess is it ? Nope . It's all about if the sex scenes are hot , and thankfully Amber Lynn is as hot as ever in this one , which makes for a pleasant experience indeed . Oh and Robert Bullock REALLY made me happy with what I'm packing , that's a welcome change from being saddened by not measuring up , so to speak , with other porn stars like John Holmes and Ron Jeremy .
Oral Annie steals the show	Three girlfriends ( Little Oral Annie , Nina Hartley , and Nick Blaze ) are on summer break from school in this Ron Jeremy directed film . Their landlady ( Lily Marlene ) expects the rent to be in her hands in two weeks time . A shady traveling agent salesman sells them on a vacation package on a houseboat and also tells them of a hidden treasure , they thank him be doing the whole porn thing and go off where they find three other guys who the travel agent really got the girls for . They do the whole porn thing and then go to look for the treasure . Meanwhile the Landlord's sister ( Patty Cakes ) goes to look for the girls , only to find Ron Jeremy , they do the porn thing and stumble on the treasure . The girls use it to pay the rent . HOORAY ! But not before doing the whole porn thing once more of course . This is all a fairly enjoyable , if highly insubstantial porn film . I could nitpick and say that there wasn't enough Patty Cakes in it or that poor Lily Marlene didn't get a sex scene at all , but I'm not really one for nitpicking so I'll just say I liked this movie for the most part . I still feel that Ron Jeremy is a better actor ( or rather WAS before he inexplicably became just a pale parody of himself ) than he is a director , but perhaps that's because this is only the first film that I saw directed by him thus far .
an average featurette about a great film	This 16 minute 38 second documentary features interviews with actor Tomas Millia and Director / Co-writer Sergio Sollima . The featurette covers all the bases about the film , but as with the Featurette found with the " Django Kill , if you live shoot " DVD , I found myself interested only when Tomas Millian was talking . He laments Donald O'Brian's passing , talks of the other actors , other antidotes about the making of the film , his love of song , and in a humorous moment exclaims about how Bleeping talented he is . This documentary can be found as an extra on the " Run , Man , Run " disk of the Blue Underground Spahetti Western DVD collection .
Almost as good as " Noon " , but not quite	Owen Wilson and Jackie Chan are back again as Roy O'Bannon and Chon Wang , this time traveling to London to avenge Chon's murdered father . Also Chon's sister , Lin ( Fann Wong ) , is added to the mix as a potential romantic interest for Roy . While " Knights " isn't as good as the previous " Noon " , it's entertaining enough and never seeks to be more then it is : A mindless action / comedy . It's a lot better than Jackie's ' other ' franchise sequel , Rush Hour 2 " . Having enjoyed this film , it just makes my hopes for David Dobkin's next directed movie , " the Wedding Crashers " . My Grade : B DVD Extras : Commentary with David Dobkin ; Second Commentary with Alfred Gough and Miles Millar ; Fight Manuel ; Action Overload ; 11deleted and extended scenes ; Trailers for " Bringing Down the House " , " The Recruit "
Distant water-colored memories of the way we purr	a small group of ex-jocks and cheerleaders sit at a bar reminiscing about high school , specifically going to a hotel stay while on an away game . The film is pretty good up to a point . That point being when the flashbacks are done and it moves to present day . Those scenes just are not nearly as hot as what came before . Fortunately the flashbacks take up a slight majority of the film's running time so that didn't bother me much . The girls are very good looking and it was eons better then the previous Anthony Spinelli directed film that I had seen , " Cry for Cindy "
the best movie that 25 dollars can make	Steven Emory has just moved with his wife from New York to open a small video rental store on in the middle of nowhere . One day his only employee discovers a unlabeled tape in a returned video case . Curiosity gets the better of them , so while the store's empty they choose to pop it in and watch . It's a horrid snuff film so Steven runs to the police station and tries to talk the chief into checking it out . Upon his return to the store , cop in tow , he finds that the video has been switched & his employee missing . How far will he go to find out what really happened ? What this extremely low-budget shot on video movie lacks in anything that usually constitutes a ' good ' film ( acting , production values of any kind , etcetera ) , it more than makes up for in story and heart . It's funny and for the most part enjoyable . For optimum viewing pleasure enjoy with some alcoholic beverage of your choice and a few like-minded friends . If you liked " pieces " or " 2000 Maniacs " , you'll more then likely enjoy this too . DVD Extras : Audio commentary by Director / writer Gary Cohen , Special effects men Mark Dolsom & Mark Kwiatek , and actors Art Neill , Paul Kay , David Christopher , & Uke ; 15 minute interview with Cohen ; and Trailers for Video Violence 1 , Video Violence 2 , Cannibal Campout , Woodchipper Massacre , & Ghoul School ( the DVD also comes with the sequel to this film on the same disc )
solid but predictable , far from classic Mamet	William H . Macy is Edmond , a guy who goes on a desperate quest to get laid after he dumps his wife . He's also a human sponge soaking up the beliefs of anyone around him , be it the random racist guy he meets in a bar or the homophobic girl he picks up later ( " you know who I hate ? Faggots " exclaims the girl to which Edmond all too eagerly replies " me too " ) . He argues with whores about the price of admission , and seems mad at the world in general . Being as Ed seems both racist and homophobic and this being a modern film , any film watcher worth his grain of salt will foresee that this man will get his ' comuppance ' before the movie ends . It's predictable when he does and will have you rolling your eyes . When you hear the name David Mamet you probably automatically think of amazing dialog ( and rightfully so with a multitude of modern day classics under his belt ) , yet this movie seems very hollow in that respect . Sure Macy is the title character gives a great performance , but it truly doesn't seem like Mamet wrote this in the least . Perhaps Stuart Gordon ( who's primarily known for his work in the horror genre ) wasn't the right director for this one . But whatever it was , this film just struck me as another " Falling Down " ( although not as contrived )
informative	This 25 minute documentary on the making of " Bad Taste " can be found on the second disc of the 2-DVD special limited edition of the aforementioned movie . It features interviews with Peter Jackson , his parents , and . It deals with Jackson's childhood , how he creates his special effects , and it's success . It's a pretty good piece , not as retrospective as I'd hope , but that's a given as this was made back in 1988 . Yet , still very worthwhile to watch for fans of Peter Jackson . Hell I just wish it were longer then it was , and that's a sign of a good documentary . but I have no clue why this couldn't be on the first disk , drop the second all together and make the DVD slightly cheaper , but what ya gonna do , right ? My Grade :
Cybermen part Duex	Beginning where it left off , Doctor Who , Rose , her alternative dad , Mickey , his alternative counterpart Ricky , and Mickey's small gang of rebels find themselves at the mercy of this realities version of the Cybermen , this second part of the 2 episode Cybermen arc feels more like a Doctor Who episode , as opposed to the previous part which honestly felt like more of an episode of the defunct show " Sliders " , which granted was a great show in it's own right . The arc as a whole was enjoyable enough as I'm one to subscribe to the maxim that ANY Who is good Who , but at the same time it's inevitable that this will be compared to the Dalek episode of the previous series . And said comparisons would only make this seem like a lesser work , as it is . I just feel that this story could've been done in one episode . Remember in the first part of the review I said that these type of stories dealing with alternative realities usually have no lasting repercussions , well that's not the case here , but what changes overall feels tagged on and not really in keeping with the character .
Danni versus Cindy ( who doesn't show up )	Danni Ashe comes on to the show to argue over ( against Cindy Margolis who refused to be on , instead sending a spokesman for her , she does get seen in some file footage though ) as to who really is the ' most downloaded woman on the internet ' . I firmly lie in Danni's camp , and she earned and deserved the title , Cindy is vastly over-rated . Overall , this was a somewhat amusing episode but pretty much much ado about nothing . Good way to kill some time . Eye Candy : Danni Ashe gets topless with her eyeful of her Double F's ( uncensored when shown on Howard TV )
Madelyn weds	Porn actress Madelyn Night picks from 6 different contestants ( Two of which are Stern regulars , Kenneth Keith Kallenbach and High-Pitch Erik ) whom all want to marry her . Each hopeful comes in and are briefly interviewed . Firstly , the two Wack packers obviously have no chance , so it's really just between 4 guys . . Note that when I saw this on Howard TV the episodes were combined together , so this review is not only for this episode but both the July 20th & 28th , 2000 shows as well . These episodes are more interesting than they are funny ( although Kenneth does get a few good laughs )
the shadows of the night	Running the gambit of Pat Benatar's music video's from 1980's " You Better Run " and up to 2001's " Christmas in America " , and almost all of her 24 videos between those previously mentioned two ( the video for " Hell is for Children is inexplicably absent , but a live version can be found in the extras ) . This DVD is a very nice item for any Benatar fan to hold in their collection even though I did have issue in some of the visual quality of some of the videos . Not enough to detract me from pulling this disc off my self every now and then , but enough to put it behind the Video Collections of Bruce Springsteen , The Police , and Bestie Boys that I also have in my pretty substantial personal collection . DVD Extras : Visual or just audio Commentary by Pat Benatar and Neil Giraldo ; live versions of Heartbreaker ( 1980 ) . I Need A Lover , Hell Is For Children , and Heartbreaker ( 2001 )
Born under a bad sign	Three kids are born during a solar eclipse and turn into vile murderous little tykes who're above suspicion by everyone , save for Joyce ( Lori Lethin ) and her younger brother Timmy . That's the story in a nutshell . The acting in this one is tolerable for the most part . Notable for MTV-J Julie Brown ( not the ' Downtown ' one ) showing some skin , and a very early part ( albiet small ) for Michael Dudikoff . Not a great film by any stretch of the imagination , but in the ' killer kids ' sub-genre it's a bit of a guilty pleasure . Eye Candy : Julie Brown shows T & A ( the only film thus far , to claim that honor ) ; Sylvia Wright gets topless DVD Extras ( R1 ) : 16 minute interview with Producer Max Rosenberg ( wherein he insults the director AND Canada , great stuff ) ; Biography of Ed Hunt ; and trailers for " Kiss of the Taratula " , " Don't open the Door " , & a red-band one for " Homework " ( which features nudity )
could have been more detailed , but still interesting	A pretty good documentary on the making of the horror movie classic " Suspiria " that has Director Dario Argento discussing the genesis of how he conceived the story , It also features most of the surviving cast and crew . Each share some interesting stories . And on a whole I did enjoy the documentary quite a bit , but at just under an hour you'd think that the thing would go into a little bit more detail than it had . This slight oversight keeps it from being more than it could have been . But as I said I still enjoyed the documentary and if you're a fan of Argento ( and every TRUE horror fan should be ) , you'll enjoy it as well .
One of Franco's best	A coke addicted fashion model is abducted by a notable plastic surgeon after a patient her scarred throws acid in the face of his beloved . He's trying to reconstruct her face with those of other girls . The fashion model's father sends Sam Morgan , his war buddy and now a private investigator to find his daughter . One of Franco's best films , it has the benefit of being coherent and not unwatchable , putting it in the class of Jess Fronco films that only number less then a handful . The presentation is nice EXCEPT the last line of Telly Savalas is in French for no reason all . DVD Extras : Sub-titled Commentary with Jess Franco and Lina Romay ; Partial commentary with Chris Mitchum ; Interviews with Jess Franco , Caroline Munro , and Chris Mitchum ; Photo gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Flesh for the Beast " , " Virgin of Nuremberg " , and " Bronx Warriors " Eye Candy : a couple breasts
watch it , if only for Bale's performance	Christian Bale stars as Trevor Reznik . an insomniac whom hasn't slept for a year . His sanity begins to deteriorate and his paranoia begins to rise after a work related injury befalls one of his co-workers . I rented this one when my lady friend wanted to get one and she told me this or " Diary of a Mad Black Woman " ( which I couldn't help but laugh at the suggestion , which got her slightly mad , but I digress ) . Needless to say , I picked this one . I really got into it , not for the ' mystery ' , as any seasoned viewer worth his salt will figure out everything rather quickly ( the first time I saw the Hangman game it was plainly obvious ) , but rather Christian Bale's performance which is mesmerizing . He's on a fast-track to becoming one of my favorite actors of my generation . The fact that he put himself through all this just for one independent film is amazing . Furthermore , this movie almost makes me forgive Scott Kosar for all his silly little wrong-minded remakes . . . . ALMOST . DVD Extras : Commentary by Brad Anderson ; 25 minute Making of featurette ; 8 Deleted / Alternate scenes ( 2 with optional commentary ) ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Mean Creek " , " Enduring Love " , " Suspect Zero " , & " Schultze gets the Blues " Eye Candy : Jennifer Jason Leigh gets topless
Conversation : the movie , you'll feel like you're actually conversing	Melvin ( Writer Micheal Blieden , adapting his own stage play for the small screen ) , meets up with friends , old and new , over dinner and has a conversation about ghosts , religion , sex , secrets , and religion ( not necessarily in that order ) . The conversation itself is engaging and flows nicely , but the scenes out of the restaurant , though not without merit ( David Cross , Jack Black , and Maura Tierney , have good parts in said parts ) , tend to mess up the flow of the film somewhat . And based on the film I'd be interested in seeing the play . DVD Extras : Commentary by Bob Odenkirk , Micheal Blieden , and cast members ; Second Commentary by Odenkirk , Blieden , the producers , composer , and Cinematographer ; " The Frank International Film Festical " ( a funny 15 minute skit ) ; Scenes from the stage play Phyro-Giants ! " ; Trailers for " the Slaughter Rule " , " Swimming " , " Mule Skinner Blues " , " Searching for Paradise " , " the Hired Hand " , " the Other Side of the Bed " , " In This World " , " Dopamine " , and a promo for the Sundance film series DVD-ROM : Screenplay in PDF format
pleasantly surprised	Vice cop Harry Harris will sleep with anything that moves much to the detriment of his fiancé , Mary . When his latest sexual conquest gets him in deep trouble with an Arab who had his frequent escapades videotaped for blackmail purposes . Harry soon finds himself deep in international espionage involving an upscale white slavery ring . I had a lot of fun with this little film . Part comedy , part action , part sexploitation , but all fun . Having had seen the director and writer's " Little Orphan Sammy " a while back and remembering how much i detested that film caused my sheer enjoyment of this one to come as all the more the pleasant surprise . It also doesn't hurt at all that most of the girls in the film are usually always nude and quite beautiful . Something Weird DVD Extras : 2 shorts : Girl of my dreams & the Philosophy of Computing , " Tel-Star Striptease " feature ( in actuality an excerpt of " the Peep Snatchers " ) ; 12 minute Gallery of Underground Sexploitation movie magazine covers with audio oddities ; and Trailers for " the Curous Dr . Humpp " , " Office Love-in " , " the Singles " & " Some like it Violent " ( the film is also bundled with " Electronic Lover " on this DVD )
Among the top tier as far as fan films go	Hearing constant kudos and praise for this short fan film , my interest was piqued . Just being a fan film that one of the few that is NOT about Star Wars is enough to recommend it . Seeing Batman take on an alien as well as Predators is fun in an ultra geeky way and for the money spent , it IS quite a nice looking and polished film . On a whole , I did enjoy it . The one thing that didn't work for me in the least was the casting of Boner from " Growing Pains " as the Joker . Listen , the guy has had NO work since that show for a reason . He just can not act and brings the short to a grinding halt almost before it truly begins . But as I said , it's a huge nerdy Geekgasm after the Joker is out of the picture .
An engrossing watch the FIRST time	Claire ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) the wife of college professor Norman Spencer ( Harrison Ford ) , begins to hear voices , sees ghastly images , and worries about her next door neighbor . Norman chalks it up to an over-active imagination bought about by stress from their daughter leaving for college coupled with them moving into a new house . But the truth is going to be much more sinister indeed . I didn't care more for Diana Scarwid as Jody in this one for some reason , but that's not enough to mar a well acted , taunt , fairly tightly plotted engrossing thriller such as this one . I even jumped once or twice in the third act . It's too bad that the trailer gave EVERYthing away . DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Bob Zemeckis , and Producers Steve Starkey and Jack Rapke ; 15 minute " What Lies Beneath : Constructing the Perfect Thriller " featurette ; Production notes ; cast & crew bios ; and Theatrical Trailer
not for the more sensitive bleeding-hearts out there	Picking up shortly after the first film , Biker Queen finds out that her twin sister , Harley Mom met an ' untimely demise ' by the monsters and sets out on a crusade of vengeance to find those responsible she meets up with a few of the survivors from Feast 1 , as well as a black car salesman , two Mexican midgets , and others . The story is as simplistic as the first , yet focuses on more of the twisted comedy of it which apparently consists of dick , fart , vomit , and semen gags . Infantile humor , sure , but I got a kick out of it . The film as a whole is awash in tastelessness , but I love politically incorrect films so I found it right up my alley , at least it was better then the stuff that Troma's been putting out lately . Besides if there's a place in the world for horror as art like " Let the Right One In " ( rightfully so as that film's brilliant & puts crap like " twilight " to shame ) then there should be room for the flip side of that : Mindless drunken fun horror films ( this one being of course firmly in the latter category ) So sit down with a six-pack or two ( or 5 ) , some like-minded friends & just sit back & enjoy . Although I still maintain that a better name for the film would have been " Feast 2 : the Second Cumming " Eye Candy : Diane Goldner shows her right tit ; Amy McGee shows her ass ; Chelsea Richards and Melissa Reed both go topless ( there's also nudity in the Making-of featurette on the DVD ) DVD Extras : Commentary by Director John Gulager , Writers Patrick Melton & Marcus Dunstan , Producer Michael Leahy , and Actors Diane Ayala Goldner , Tom Gulager & Clu Gulager ; a 12 & a half Making of featurette ; a 5 & a half minute ' Meet the Gulagers ' featurette ; and trailers for " Hell Ride , " " Mother of Tears , " " The Zombie Diaries , " & " Diary of the Dead . "
very entertaining , but not really for the plot	In a post-apocalyptic future , ( or if you watch the Candian version , " Another time . . . Another place ) Mok , a legendary megolaniacal rock superstar who appears to have fallen somewhat , but not totally out of flavor , kidnaps Angel , a new female rocker , to sing for him to open a portal into a darker dimension . It's up to Angel's band mates to save her from Mok's evil clutches in this Canadian produced animated sci-fi musical . The story and plotting seem a bit on the archaic side , but the music is superb ( escpecially from Lou Reed and Debbie Harry ) and the animation is pretty good . That's enough to make me recommend this film , but I still believe that the earlier " Heavy Metal " is a better overall experience . DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) 77 minute version ; Commentary with Directory Clive Smith ; 24 and a half minute Making of ; Character sketch Gallery ; Restoration Comparisons Disk 2 ) 81 minute CBC version ; " The Devil and Daniel Mouse " short ; a Making of said short ; " Drats " work print ; Rock and Rule Title Workprint ; more sketch galleries ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailer for " Electric Dragon 80000V " DVD-Rom content : the original screenplay in . PDF format
better than the actual film	This 51 minute documentary / Retrospective on the movie " Legend " can be found as an extra on the second disc of the 2-disc DVD set of the aforementioned movie . The first half deals with the fruition of the idea and the making of the movie . It includes interviews with almost all the main participants of the feature . ( Actor / Creepy Scientologist Tom Cruise is a no show ) I had no clue that Robert Picardo was Meg Mucklebones . The second half is much more fascinating and deals with what want wrong with the movie . The main problem I have with this piece is not with the content , but rather in how it's presented on the DVD ( note to the makers : Chapter Stops are your friends )
simply a bloody good time ( for zombie fans )	Deep in Akron , Ohio a father and his daughter board themselves up into their cellar to escape from the dead who've been brought back to life . Thus begins J . R . Bookwalter's first and arguably best film to date . Having to do with a group of government-sponsored ' zombie squad ' and their adventures defeating the hordes of the living dead as well as a fanatical religious cult , this is actually pretty good . Now please understand that good is a very subjective term , most non-horror fans will openly dismiss this film as poorly acted , highly derivative crap . And yes they would have a point about the acting as well as it having more than a passing resemblance to " dawn of the dead " , " Evil Dead " and a few other films . However one can plainly see that this movie has heart . I'm more apt to forgive the film for it's shortcomings simply because I was entertained for the duration of the very low budget zombie homage . Plus Bruce Campbell always rocks ( even if it's just his voice )
watch it for Christina	A young woman goes to a remote castle under the guise of being read her recently deceased father's will . This being a horror film , the real reason of her arrival at the mansion is more devious . This being a Jess Franco film , none of it makes much sense and has a dreamlike quality to it . Not Dario Argento dream-like . Dario is a better director then Franco ever will be . But enthralling none the less , owing in no small part to the stunning exotic beauty of Christina Von Blanc and she's the main reason alone that I sat through this convoluted story . DVD Extras : 13 minutes of Deleted scenes ( with more Eye Candy ) ; and Theatrical Trailer Eye Candy : wouldn't be a Franco film without nudity and lesbianism a plenty
a really fun ' Sci-fi Original ' ( will wonders never cease ? )	The Thorax team is tasked with exterminating ants that somehow managed to take over an island , but these are no ordinary any , oh no , there's are super-ants with a master plan . Yes , this movie is utterly ridiculous , but it's also extremely watchable and has a very high camp factor . The Sci-fi channel doesn't have the best of track records when it comes to their ' Sci-fi Originals ' , but thankfully this one stands head and shoulders among the best of those . Turn off your brain , just go with it , and enjoy the film with your choice of alcoholic beverage . The only grip I have is that the ending was a bit of a let-down .
third time's not the charm	It feels like a transition movie , as the books become darker , obviously their celluloid counterparts will follow suit . But this film doesn't feel that dark , yet still managed to be less magical and less fun then the previous two films . Granted with " Chamber of Secrets " , the bar was sat extremely high , but this film is definitely missing Chris Columbus's touch . The good acting is there ( Gary Olman is great in damn near everything ) , the good special effects are there , and it's nice to see Rupert Grint growing into his own skin a bit and not looking so weird looking . The substance so much displayed in the first two isn't there , the heart isn't there ( not in the same degree at least ) . This is not to say the the third film isn't good , I DO like it . It's just the worst of the three and I'm glad that Alfonso Cuarón isn't directing the next film " Goblit of Fire " , as his eye is obviously meant for more pretentious Art-house cinema . 2-Disc DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone " , " Harry Potter and the Chambers of Secrets " , " The Polar Express " & " Elf " Disc 2 ) 5 Deleted Scenes ; 11 minute and 50 second Creating The Vision featurette ; 7 Interviews with cast & crew with Introduction With The Shrunken Head ; Catch Scabbers Interactive Challenge ; Choir Practice Sing-Along ; Quest Of Sir Cadogan Interactive Challenge ; Self-Guided Interactive Tour of Honeydukes ; Magic You May Have Missed Interactive Challenge ; Self-Guided Interactive Tour of Lupin's Classroom ; Care Of Magical Creatures featurette ; Conjuring A Scene featurette ; and Game PreviewDVD-Rom : Hogwart's Timeline ; Trading Cards ; Video game preview
the earliest porno in existence	Wow , so this is the earliest porno known to still be in existence eh ? That's wild stiff . Anyway this silent black and white number has a guy picking up two girls , they need to urinate so they stop by a secluded section of the woods and get out to do their business . When they're getting back in the car . The guy takes one of the girls aside and they go back to the spot to screw . The other girl later joins in . MUCH more interesting as a curiosity than anything that one would get aroused seeing , this is a trip and a half , I especially liked how they went to what they thought were great lengths not to be recognized ( that amounts to a fake mustache for the guy and wigs for the ladies ) I saw the film in 1970's " A History of the Blue Movie " which showed it in uncut form .
Carry IS Kaufman	A biopic of Andy Kaufman by great director Milos Foreman who redeems himself complete after the lackluster whitewashing that was " The People vs . Larry Flint " . Jim Carry does a terrific job as Kaufman and his multi-faceted one of a kind sense of humor . I preferred Courtney Love's performance in Larry Flint better ( primaraly because she was playing someone closer to home for her than in this role ) . But even Love's foul taint can't stain this movie much . EYE Candy : Angela Jones & Krystina Carson as two hookers get topless ( would be higher without Courtney ) DVD Extras : 19 minute spotlight on location ; 5 Deleted Scenes ; music videos from REM for ' man on the moon ' and ' the great beyond ' ; Andy biography ; cast and filmmaker bios ; Production notes ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " Nutty Professor 2 : The Klumps " and some DVD-ROM features Easter eggs : Clips of Kaufman hidden in his biography section , just highlight the pictures of Andy
impressive	Jack ( Dominique Vandenberg ) gets amnesia after a bullet in the head almost kills him . Five years later , still haunted by dreams and visions of a woman he loved in his previous life even while attempting to stay the top pit fighter , his past catches up to him . However he might not like what he remembers . Writer / Director Jesse Johnson made a film that looked significantly better then his meager budget would suggest . The fights are pretty brutal and well choreographed . The story while not the most original one is serviceable enough and while this is the sole film that I've seen or heard of Dominique Vandenberg , I can already tell that a more interesting actor to watch then , say , Don " the Dragon ' Wilson . Now on to hunting down Vandenberg's " The Honorable " which I've heard great things about . the film is not without a few flaws , but I found it entertaining even if the ending comes across as more than a tad bit silly . Oh and Steven Bauer's the best he's been since " Gleaming the Cube " in this one . Eye Candy : Adult film actor , Aspen Stevens , gets topless as well as shows her ass
criminally underrated	As part of an initiation prank Julie ( Meg Tilly of Psycho 2 ) has to spend the night in a mausoleum , but Karl Rhamarevich , a master of telekinesis has recently died and been put in there . When Julie's fellow sorority sisters desecrate where he's housed the real terror starts . This little flick had a good deal of atmosphere and I enjoyed the build up , plus the last twenty minutes are just plain great . Anyone who's looking for a lost gem of an ' 80's horror movie needn't look any further . Highly under-appreciated . Plus Elizabeth Daily is adorable . Media Blaster DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary with director Tom McLoughlin and co-writer Michael Hawes ; and trailers for " the Being " , " Frankestien's Bloody Terror " , " Just Before Dawn " , & " Devil Dog " Disc 2 ) Alternate director's cut ( that's almost unwatchable due to a bad print ) & Behind-the-scenes featurette
Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they aren't out to get you	John Tanner ( Rutger Hauer in one of his better roles ) is a family man and host of an investigative news show is convinced by the CIA that his longtime friends ( Craig T . Nelson , Dennis Hopper , and Chris Sarandone ) are traitors to the country . Over the course of a weekend get-together tensions mount and tempers flair . . This film despite a few plot holes , still is pretty exciting . While not Sam Peckinpah's greatest movie by a long shot , does keep your interests for the whole duration of the film . All the main actors are reasonably well-acted and I couldn't help but enjoy it . Anchor Bay's 2-DVD set Extras : Disk 1 ) Commentary by Paul Seydor , Garner Simmons , David Weddle , and Nick Redman Disk 2 ) Director's work-cut ; ( interesting for prosperity's sake , but due to the grainy discolored image I don't foresee giving it multiple viewings , frankly I prefer the theatrical version more anyway ) ; the great feature-length 1 hour 18 minute documentary , " Alpha to Omega " ; Stills Gallery ; Biographies ; and Theatrical trailer Eye Candy : Blink and you'll miss Meg foster's right nipple , Helen Shaver has quick full frontal , Cassie Yates and Mereta Van Kamp get into the topless act as well
Punks shouldn't enter Kersey's Matrix	Charles Bronson is back as Paul Kersey . After some punks ( including a young Morpheus , Laurence Fishburne ) get away with his wallet , they find his house . He's not home so they rape and kill the housekeeper . When Kersey and his daughter return , they knock him out and kidnap her . After raping her back at an abandoned warehouse , she jumps out the window , killing herself . Bronson being Bronson , it's time once again for revenge , while hiding it from his new girlfriend . Not as good as the original . As sequels rarely are . But I enjoyed it . Bronson as an actor just kicked so much ass . Eye Candy : Silvana Gallardo and Robin Sherwood show much flesh , but due to the subject matter , it's not really eye candy . Leslie Graves and Melody Santangello's topless scenes are more palatable .
Fair enough if a bit too cut and dried	David Duchovny stars as Mike Klein , a television show writer who hopes that his heartfelt new pilot that he wrote after his brother's suicide gets picked up for the fall season . But he has to deal with compromising his vision to the network executives ' bottom line ( ratings ) if he wants to see it on the schedule . Well acted , especially by Duchovny and Sigourney Weaver , if a bit black and white satire . Not as biting or pointed as I sensed that writer / director Jake Kasdan wanted it to or could've been , but entertaining and poignant enough to make it a good watch regardless . And is miles above his much better known , " Walk Hard "
Introducing Natasha	As a young girl , Sil ( Michelle Williams , who of course would get nude herself in the horror chick flicks , " If These Walls Could Talk 2 " and " Me Without you " ) , a human / alien hybrid , escapes her government captivity . In a matter of days , she turns into Natasha Henstridge who yearns to mate . Micheal Madsen is among the crew assembled to find and kill her . Both Forest Whitaker and Ben " Gandhi " Kingsley are pretty much wasted , but Madsen does alright and Natasha getting nude copious amount of times make this a fun , if brain dead little sci-fi flick . Nothing ground-breaking here , just enjoyable b-movie popcorn fare . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Roger Donaldson , Micheal Madsen , and Natasha Henstridge ; Second commentary by Donaldson , Frank Mancuso Jr , Richard Edlund , and Steve Johnson ; Sneak peek at Species 3 ; Theatrical Trailer ; red-band trailer for " the Howling " ; trailer for " Jeepers Creepers 2 " ; one for " Earthsea " ( a scifi channel mini-series ) ; and a few montage trailers Eye Candy : Marg Helgenberger gets topless ; Natasha Henstridge shows it all .
fairly decent low-budget horror flick	An enigmatic and seemingly psychotic stranger ( Bill Moseley ) crashes a home-coming get together among some friends in Alabama . Brandishing a suitcase full of razorblades , he demands that everyone at the party give him the name of someone that they truly despise , which they very reluctantly do , but when they people named begin to die the friends become fearful for their own lives because one of them made a flippant comment at the party . Now they have to come up with a plan to survive , with the help of a chili-loving redneck gun enthusiast ( Tom Towles ) . Aside from Moseley and Towles , the acting from most of the others is pretty dire ( Especially Matt Lero as Timmy , who seems content to channel Eric Freeman's ' acting chops ' as Ricky from Silent Night Deadly Night 2 ) . However this is easily overlooked as the movie is more or less just so much gory , weird fun and left me impressed . Eye Candy : XZanthia and an extra get topless and make out ; Tiffany Shepis also loses her shirt DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Adam Wingard and writer / producer E . L . Katz ; deleted opening sequence ; Bill Mosley interview segment ; ' In a room where darkness counts ' featurette ; and 3 short films ( " the Girlfriend " , " 1 , 000 year sleep " & " Laura Panic " )
nice character study	David Hurst ( Campbell Scott ) is a dentist disillusioned with his marriage after he begins to suspect his wife ( Hope Davis ) of infidelity . Denis Leary a patient that David can't get out of his mind , and he forms an imaginary version of him to give the audience a visual for his internal thoughts . I couldn't help , but think of Rob Reiner's " Story of Us " while watching this film , however due to the performances of all involved in this character study , this can't help but feel like the MUCH better movie of the two . It all felt very true to life , especially the downbeat ending . I hesitate to say that I enjoyed the film , but at the same time I can applaud its merits .
not among the best , yet still fun	On a cold snowy Winter night , an elderly woman takes in a cold Bugs Bunny who is dying on her doorstep . Her dog Sylvester doesn't like this one bit and tosses him out , of course you know that this means war and they take turns throwing each other outside . This cartoon is pretty good although Bugs seems to be off somehow from the version we all know and love . The dog made a pretty fun , if simple , foil for the rascally rabbit though . Not among the top wrung of the Bugs shorts , but fun none the less . This animated short can be found on Disk 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 set .
A tad overrated , but still enjoyable	Tom Cruise is Jerry Maquire , a sports agent , who is stupid enough to feel a sense of remorse for seeing the contracts as being the number one prioty and writes an endless Mission statement going on and on about everything wrong with the way things are done , Needless to say he's fired soon afterwords . And needs to start anew , losing his fiancé , and most of his clientèle . The only two that choose to stick by him are a desperately clingy lady just wanted to be loved and a young up & coming conceited black football perspective with a nagging , holier than thou bitch of a wife . While Maqurie rise to the occasion and seize what he has left ? This movie , while being one of Cameron Crowe's lesser works ( basically an over-glorified chick flick ) is still pretty good and better than Crowe / Cruise's next collaboration ( the remake of " Vannila Sky ) by far . All of the actors acquit themselves as well as can be expected with the over-sentimentalized script . Plus you can't hate a movie with a young kid who says adorable things , that's why that tactic is used way to often in film . Even though it didn't accomplish the suspected job of making one feel good about oneself in the least bit . A woman so emotionally fragile that a guy only need to come see her and tell her ' Hello " before she crumples on the floor and worships the ground he walks on again ? I need to find women like that . 2-disc Special Edition DVD Extras : Commentary with director Cameron Crowe and actors Tom Cruise , Renee Zellweger and Cuba Gooding Jr . Disc 2 ) Video commentary with director Cameron Crowe and actors Tom Cruise , Renee Zellweger and Cuba Gooding Jr . ; Mock commercial ; how to be a sports agent featurette ; little over 5 minute Making Of ; 5 Deleted scenes with optional commentary ; Rehearsal footage with optional commentary ; " Secret Garden " music video by Bruce Springsteen ; Mission statement ; Photo gallery ; Cast and crew filmographies ; Theatrical trailer ; and a trailer for " As Good As It Gets " DVD-Rom content : ScreenplayEaster Egg : About 6 minutes of the commentary participants goofing off being the commentary starts
Every Liberal's dream : Cutting free Florida	Bugs Bunny peeved over rabbit pelts being only worth 2 cents each ( on account of the sheer volume of the rabbit population ) , while Bear and foxes go for considerably much more , goes to Washington where a flamboyantly gay Games commissioner feeds him some bull about rabbits being all cuddly and friendly ( this was the pre-Quest for the Holy Grail days mine you ) . So Bugs goes around America vandalizing and terrorizing , including ( in what is every Liberal's fantasy ) giving New York back to the Indians and cutting off Florida from the USA . This is McKimson's best short ever , that side it still isn't that good and is quite a bit overrated . This animated short can be found on Disk 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 .
Bobby alone makes this anthology film worth watching	This horror anthology film that was made for TV features three stories . The first , ' A Second Chance ' stars Ed Begley Jr . as a young man who finds that his newly purchased antique car can travel in time . It's an interesting little tale reminiscent of The Twilight Zone , but it doesn't really have any place in a supposed horror film ( even one that was made for TV . The middle tale , ' no such thing as a vampire ' , stars Patrick Macnee as Dr . Gheria , a wealthy British man whose wife believe that she's been the victim of a vampire . Gheria naturally doesn't believe this preposterous notion at first , then Micheal comes to help . . . . This tale was better than the first one , but even though it is enjoyable enough and boosts a nice twist , it's still nothing that special . Which brings as to the third , last & hands down best story in this movie , " Bobby " , in which a long deceased boy is brought back to life via the dark magiks that his distressed , grief-stricken mother partakes in . She's jubilant to find him at her door , but things soon turn sour as he's different now & playing sadistic games with mommy dearest . For all the horror and tension that the first two stories lacked , this one makes up for it . . . . in spades . Lee Montgomery is suitably frightening as the titular Bobby and it remains one of the best short horrors ever made for American TV ( now if only the first two parts were even half as good ) DVD Extras : deleted / extended from the ' no such thing as a vampire ' segment ; alternate intro vioceovers ; Music score highlights ; the unaired 1968 pilot episode of ' Dead of Night ' ( A Darkness at Blaisedon ) ; & a photo gallery
All in all a good film , with slight flaws	Georgina Spelvin is Maddie Stone , a woman who's in desperate need of money when her very wealthy husband has a heart attack during a sexual encounter with her ( what a way to go , right ? ) . So she plans to hook either her two girls ( Annette Haven and Clair Dia , the former a future legend of porn , the later sadly forgotten ) with wealthy men in order to still live in the way she's grown accustomed to . At one point it showed a sex scene in a barn at an angle that it was on Annette's ass and at first I was mortified that she apparently didn't do a good job wiping after a bowel movement , yea I know it was probably just some black pubic hair , but it killed my erection dead because it DID look like something else . Other than that and the encompassing question of what the hell ever happened to Clair Dia who left the industry in 1979 , I enjoyed the film and was nicely acted for a porn film .
Interesting hybrid porn	Nate ( Richard O'Neal ) goes off on a cattle drive , not before having sex with his wife , Sarah ( Barbara Bourbon ) , of course . After 3 escaped convicts rape her , steal her three nubile daughters and then flee , leaving her strung up by her hands , she of course wants revenge . So when a rag-tag posse chasing the convicts rescue her , she insists on traveling with them . This is a curious film , as a porno / western hybrid , it's the first of it's kind that I've seen . Some may be put off by the highly exploitative showing of rape and incest . But I found myself actually drawn into and interested in what would happen next . The film is a further example of how porn films now shot on video , just don't seem to cut it ( barring , of course , the way above average output of Directors Micheal Zen , Brad Armstrong , and few others ) My Porn
interesting	This 69 minute documentary on the making of " the Italian Job " can be found on the Special Collecter's Edition of the aforementioned movie . It's split in 3 parts or you can watch them in a ' play all ' option . The first part " The Great Idea " focuses on the fruition of the story for the movie , the second " The Self-Preservation Society " deals with the supporting cast , and the last segment " Get a Bloomin ' move on " focusing on the cars and music . All these segments feature informative interviews and learning more about the already great movie , made me appreciated the film all the more . Easily among the best documentaries that I've seen . And while it's certainly not in the top echelon ( " Full Tilt Boogie " , " Apocalypse Soon " , " Heart of Darkness " , Etcatra ) It's still worthwhile viewing .
VERY informative , yet diminishes the film somewhat	This documentary which is just 9 and a half minutes shy of an hour and a half is available on side B of MGM's DVD of " the Day the Earth Stood Still " , it discusses pretty much everything you'd want to know about the film . It kinda takes away from the subtlety of the film itself and spells out what the movie was all about . And watching it made me not like the film as much because of it . So in that aspect this documentary pretty much failed . Never underestimate the power of ambivalence . But I digress , the documentary also goes into adapting the short story , the fights over casting , the props , and more .
" I'm a sea pig "	After a prologue set in June of 1961 in which a woman gives birth to a seemingly stillborn , we fast forward to present day of 1981 . At a sorority house thats closed for the holidays , six sorority sisters decide to stay to party . When the elderly owner ( the woman from the prologue ) returns expecting an empty house , she warns them no sex , no parties . After they pull a prank on her , for chiding one of them for having sex , inadvertently leading to her death , someone starts picking them off one by one . When I was growing up , I used to see this on the shelves of the local mom and pop video store . And while the scantilizing cover for some reason always beckoned me , I never got around to seeing it until recently . While it was one of the better Slasher films that I've seen and contains an alright story , however predictable , it's still nowhere near any of the classics of the sub-genre . My Grade : Eye Candy : Eileen Davidson as Vicki shows breasts and ass , Jodi Draigie ( in her sole acting credit ) goes topless
good featurette	Of the 3 featurettes on " Dead & Buried " , this was the only one that I really enjoyed . Stan Winston talks about his work , how he accomplished the various special effects on " Dead and Buried " on the relatively minuscule budget of the movie , why the needle in the eye effect is his favorite special effect that he's ever done thus far . Winston comes off as a pretty engaging person . Plus I just really find special effects to be endlessly interesting , so other people's mileage may vary . This 18 minute featurette can be found on Blue Underground's Limited Edition DVD of " Dead and Buried "
the Hardy Boys match alone made the PPV worth it	1st match : Godfather and D'lo Brown come out with Iced D singing a new Godfather song . They're going to be fighting against Big Boss Man and Bull Buchannan who ended up winning the match and chased the Godfather's hoes up the ramp . an OK match . Stephanie Mcmahon and Triple H talk of the upcoming main match . The rules are giving to the participants of the next match . 2nd Match : Hardcore Battle Royal included Tazz , Viscera , The Mean street posse , Hardcore Holly , Kai en Tai , the Headbangers , The Acolytes , and the Hardcore Champion Crash Holly . there was a lot of belt changes during the 15 minute match as the participants fought in and out of the ring . Hardcore Holly ended up winning by hitting Crash with a container of Snickers . Cut to a snippet of WWF Axxess . Al Snow and Steve Blackman talk in the bathroom . 3rd match : Al Snow and Steve Blackman come out the the ring . Snow introduces Chester McCheezerton ( a Latino midget in a cheese suit before starting their match with the tag team , TNA ( Test and Albert accompanied by Trish Stratus ) . JR's headset conks out for a little bit . TNA win in a pretty poor match . Al snow and Steve Blackman start beating up the midget . . Kat and May Young talk backstage about the upcoming match . Kat is nude but because of strategically placed item you never see anything . Lame comedy . Micheal Cole interviews the Dudley Boys . 4th match : Christian and Edge Vs . The Hardy Boys Vs . the Dudley Boyz in a Triple-threat ladder match . Christian an Edge eventually win . Some amazing aerial moves , the addition of a few tables , and a VERY memorable Swanton Bomb made this one an insanely great match . . Mick Foley and Linda McMahon are interviewed by Kevin Kelley . 5th match : Kat Vs . Trish Stratuswith guest referee Val Venus . The less said about this match , the better . Women matches ALWAYS suck balls . Promo for Westlemania 21 at Housten , TX . 6th Match : The Radicals are beat by Too Cool , do you remember these two amazing teams ? No ? Yea I'd like to forget them too . They stink up the place . . the winner of a contest is revealed . Big Show and Shane talk . Clip of earlier that night on " Sunday night Heat " . Kurt Angle then talks to the head of security . 7th & 8th matches Chris Jericho vs . Kurt Angle vs . Chris Benoit for the Intercontental Title and then right after the same wrestlers for the European belt . Benoit won the first and Jericho won the second . These were just alright . Both were . Vince McMahon is interviewed . Triple H and Stephanie talk again . 9th Match X-PAC & Road Dogg Vs . Rikishi and Kane who win . the stink face , and especially the Worm both stink . Pet Rose gets choke slammed by Kane once again and then stink faced by Rikishi . . The Rock is interviewed . 10th match and time for the main event which is a Fatal Four Way Elimination Match for the World Wrestling Federation Championship The Rock ( with Vince ) vs . Big Show ( with Shane ) vs . Mick Foley ( with Linda ) vs . Triple H ( with Stephanie ) . The Rock won in a pretty good match After the show there's a recap and post-match interviews on the DVD . My Overall Grade DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) 3 separate Commentaries by Kurt Angle , Chris Jericho , and Chris Benoit on their Triple-threat match ; a 2 and a half minute Triangle ladder match buildup ; 4 minute road to Wrestlemania promo ; and Backstage axxess footage Disc 2 ) Select footage and interviews about the first 15 Westlemanias
caught in the web	It's been almost two years since Peter Parker ( Tobey McGuire ) became Spiderman and he can't seem to to hold a job , his college grades are falling , and his even him tenacious friendship with Mary Jane is eroding . What's a costumed web-slinging wall crawler to do ? Why , through in the proverbial towel , of course . Peter gets fed up at the constant hassles of him life and decides Spiderman no more . But when Dr . Otto Octavius suffers a freak accident that fuses the mechanical tentacles that he invented to his body and destroyed the inhabiter chip that kept him as the one in charge , changing him into a super-villain whom the Daily Bugle deems Doctor Otopus , the only one that can stop his rampage is Spiderman , but does Parker have the hero spirit still in him ? This film had me feeling divisive . On one hand , Alfred Molina's performance as Dr . Octavious and later Doc Ock is phenomenal , and I have very happy that the campy tendencies of Willem Dafoe as Green Goblin in the first one were nowhere to be found in Molina's portrayal , the action was suitably thrilling ( maybe more so than the first ) , and Bruce Campbell's role of ' snooty usher ' warmed the cockles of my heart . On the other hand , Kirsten Dunst STILL doesn't jibe for me as Mary Jane Watson , even less so in this sequel as she looks sickly hideous , AND annoying . And more people saw Spiderman unmasked than was really feasibly acceptable . But all in all , I did enjoy this film way more than I have gripes about it and I think it was infinitely better than the huge let-down of X-men 2 . 2-Disc Collecter's Edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by director Sam Raimi , producer Avi Arad , co-producer Grant Curtis and star Tobey Maguire ; Second Commentary by Special FX supervisor John Dykstra and his effects team ; subtitle trivia track ; 4 web episodes ; " Ordinary " music video by Train ; Blooper reel ; Theatrical trailer ; Trailers for " Hitch " , " Spider-man " , " Christmas with the Cranks " , " Spanglish " , " Seinfeld on DVD " , " the Forgotten " , " White Chicks " , and " Hellboy " Disc 2 ) 12-part " Making the Amazing " documentary ; 3 featurettes ( Hero in Crisis , Eight Arms to Hold You , and The Women of Spider-Man ) ; multi-angle ' Pier Sequence ' deconstruction ; artwork gallery ; " Spider-Man 2 " video game preview3 Easter Eggs : Disc 1 ) In the Commentaries menu , there's a hidden spider icon , find it for an introduction by Sam Raimi made for a preview audience in Japan Disc 2 ) go to the Making the Amazing menu and highlight one of Doc Ock's tentacles for a special guest wearing Doc Ock's suit ; Go to the Gallery menu and highlight the invisible Spidey Sences over Spidey's head for Doc Ock singing ' If I were a Rich Man " from " Fiddler on the Roof "
Interesting	Michael Lennick narrates this 28 minute documentary which can be found as an extra on the Criterion Collection 2-disc DVD of " Videodrome " . Through the use of interviews ( both vintage and new ) with various cast and crew , including effects legend Rick Baker , Bill Sturgeon , David Cronenberg , and James Woods among others , as well as behind-the-scenes footage , this tales the story of how the amazing special effects were created . At just under half an hour this featurette feels too short , if only because I was so fascinated by the subject matter . I would highly recommend this to even the most casual fan of the film .
better than " the Dark Crystal "	Jennifer Connelly is Sarah , an immature spoiled narcissistic bratty teen whom after wishing her baby brother , Toby , away to the Goblin King ( a great David Bowie , who's a highlight of the film ) and has to traverse a complex labyrinth to get him back learning to be a lot less selfish in the process . Bowie's songs highlight and punctuate a magical film that is sure to appeal to both the young and young at heart . Better then Jim Hanson's other more mature film of the 80's " The Dark Crystal " , because it's a tad more humane and more easily to relate to , but both these films are fun to watch . Loving this film from when I was a kid myself might have shading my opinion of it a bit , yet re-watching it just now , I still find it very enjoyable . Collector's Edition DVD Extras : " Inside the Labyrinth " 56 minute making-of featurette ; Four photo galleries ; posters gallery ; Filmographies ; Storyboards ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailer for " The Dark Crystal box set " Random Notes : Comes packed with animation cell / scene composite card and postcards
sadly forgotten drive-in classic	Elizabeth Wetherly is a black jazz singer who's car breaks down in backwoods hillbilly hell where she meet's faded starlet , Bertha ( Shelly Winters ) and Eddie Collins , a wanna-be famous country crooner . Eddie stalls on fixing Liz's car in order to hatch his devious plans much to the chagrin of lovestruck Bertha . Soon Liz is stuck in a living nightmare in this forgotten drive-in gem . The story not only holds up quite well even 25 years after the film came out , but also trumps most Hollywood films that deal with racism now . Never browbeating you , instead just saying it matter of factly . This film should be better known and is extremely watchable for the performances of Winters and Slim Pickens alone . ( the other actors do a great job as well , but seem underdeveloped especially Ted Cassidy best known for being Lurch in the Addams family , here as Keno ) . It also deserves better than the strictly bare-bones DVD treatment it currently has .
Sholder's first film remains his best	Three murderous nut-jobs , pyromaniac Byron ( Martin Landau ) , obese child molester Victor Salva ( no I'm just kidding , this fatty likes young GIRLS ) , and the leader , murderous sociopath Frank ( Jack Palance ) break out of an experimental asylum during a blackout . They go to terrorize Dr . Potter , a new phychiatrist whom they think has murdered their previous doctor in this little known horror gem from the ' 80's . What the film lacks in plot coherence , it more then makes up for in a feeling of tension throughout . Great acting by all ( especially the late great Donald Pleasence as Dr . Leo Bain , played in a way 180 degrees from his more famous Dr . Sam Loomis of the " Halloween " films ) Some great lines , and a few solid laughs towards the beginning . Eye Candy : Carol Levy shows her mosquito bites My grade : DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Jack Sholder ; 16 & a half minute Interview with punk band ' The Sic Fcks ' ( WOW , they haven't aged well ) ; 16 & a half minute Carol Levy Interview ( I'd STILL do her ) ; Poster art & lobby card Gallery ; and the red-band Theatrical trailer
shows a great deal of promise	Despite a early marketing promo campaign that was under-whelming to say the least as it didn't pique the interest of anyone I know and once you're able to get past the stereotypical ' Gypsies as low-life thieving scum ' , you'll find that this show shows a lot of promise . The pilot introduces us to the Malloy's , a traveling Gypsy family ( all acted quite well ) : Newly released ex-con mother , Dahlia ( Minnie Driver ) and patriarchal father Wayne ( Eddie Izzard , who is especially superb ) . I won't get into the 3 kids as the pilot doesn't flesh them out much ( the tidbit that the youngest boy is a cross-dresser being just an aside to be dealt with in future episodes ) . After inavertedly killing a couple , they choose to assume their identities and take the house that the couple had bought sight unseen . Perhaps I haven't explained it as well as I could . But suffice it to say , the show's a black comedy / drama akin to " Six Feet Under " and I'll definitely tune in for the next few episodes , as the pilot episode alone is better than all the episodes of the awful " Dirt " shown thus far combined and showed more promise than " Thief " did in it's entire series . It's about time FX got another new show that was watchable .
Yuletime A-Ha	Steve Coogan reprises his role of talk show host Alan Partridge for this Christmas special that can be found on the second disk of the 2-disc set of the show " Knowing me , Knowing You with Alan Partridge " . Nothing's mentioned of what happened after Alan shot that guy on the last episode of his series , but other then that anyone who like the series will adore this Christmas special as well . It has the same dry humor , well strike that , the humor is quite broad in this special , but I still enjoyed it all the same . Now I'll just have to figure out how to watch the two " I'm Alan Partridge " series and catch the upcoming movie and I'll be pretty much set .
simple , to the point , i like it	Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Frei Parken " ( or Free Parking ) runs around 7 minutes and tells the simple story of a woman trying to get a parking space , but there are a few obstacles in her path . This feeling is universal and of course it's dramatized for entertainment porpoises but overall it's just a fun little short film . This is what short films should be about . No complex plots , no experimental filming techniques to satisfy you and your art house friends . Just quick in , quick out and leave them waiting more . Kudos to Bernhard Jasper and to a lesser extant Christopher Roth
better than the first	It's Harry's second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry despite the pleadings of an imp named Dobby , whom ends up making Harry's foster family hate him more ( if such a thing is possible ) . He has to traverse the Chamber of Secrets to find out who's writing mysterious messages on the school hallways and why people have been petrified . It's up to Harry who has the ability to speak and understand snake talk to save the day . This sequel to an enjoyable little film is better because it can do away with the exposition that the first had to show , and concentrate more on the story , which is deeper and a tad darker than before . I even enjoyed Hermione more in this film , but as is true with the ying and yang , so is true with a hatred of a character in the film , and it's been transfered from Hermione to the awful character of Moaning Myrtle , yea I know she plays an integral part in the plot line of the film , but I still couldn't help but detest her . I think it was her speech patterns that grated on my nerves . That petty nuisance aside , I found this film to be simply captivating from beginning to end . 2-disc DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Year One At Hogwarts featurette ; Theatrical Trailer Disc Two ) 19 Additional / Extended Scenes ; Photo Gallery ; Certificates Gallery ; Build A Scene featurette ; Tour Dumbledore's Office ; Cast & Crew Interviews ; Conversation With JK Rowling And Steve Kloves featurette ; Production Sketches gallery ; Colin's Darkroom ; and Tour Diagon Alley DVD-Rom : Chamber Of Secrets Game demo ; interactive Hogwarts time-line ; Screensaver ; Photo Hunt ; Sliders ; Jigsaw puzzle ; matching potions ; the chamber challenge ; Spellcasting knowledge ; the Forbidden Forest challenge ; 3D Great Hall cutout ; printable mazes ; and folding accordion posters
Not as perfect as Goodfellas , but still very very good	Robert DeNiro is Ace Rothstien is trying to keep a tight , methodical operation as a mob-connected casino operator in Las Vegas of the ' 70's with his new love interest , Ginger ( Sharon Stone , who is surprisingly not totally insufferable as she usually is , I guess she saved it up for the commentary ) . Nicky Santoro ( Joe Pesci ) arrives under the Mob bosses desire to see that Ace's operations are running smoothly , but the more flamboyant , high risk taking Santoro , has plans of his own . Before long the " civilized " lifestyle is offset by the more violent , devious excesses as it all begins spiraling downward . The performance of the movie are all great , the film keeps your interests throughout it's duration , and while this isn't as good as Scorsese / Pileggi's last collaboration , " Goodfellas " , there's still more than enough on display here to highly recommend this one as well . Although , this is based on a true story , names changed naturally , but I feel that this is probably a watered down version of what really happened . DVD Extras : Commentary by Martin Scorsese , Sharon Stone , Nicholas Pileggi , and Trailers for " the Big Lebowski " , " Assault on Precinct 13 " , & " Northern Exposure " Seasons 1-3 . Side 2 ) 5 deleted scenes ; 5 featurettes ( The Story , The Cast And Characters , The Look , After The Filming , & Vegas And The Mob ; and the 44 minute " History Alive : True Crime Authors ? Casino With Nicholas Pileggi " documentary
deadpan at its best	Either you love Steven Wright's dry on-liner humor told in his trademark deadpan delivery , or you don't . I'm definitely in the former category . So sadly haven missed this special when it was on cable , I was over-enthusiastic to get it when it came out on DVD earlier this week . Some of the material almost had me in tears . Not sad tears , mind you . I heard some repeated variations off his older material ( the dream movie bit ) , but for the most part it's new material ( to me anyways ) . So yeah , I enjoyed it very much . If you want a good laugh , rent / buy this one now . Also as an added bonus you get his short film " One Soldier " and small clips of one of his shows in ' 88 .
Fairly solid	A demon is found back in WW2-era England by some serviceman after some Nazi's conjure it up . Stricken with the rather unfortunate name of Hellboy , the demon grows up under the strict supervision of the American government , with other people with abnormalities . Now evil Rasputin is back to finish the job he had started back in the day and it's up to Hellboy , his new handler John Myers , ( Rupert Evans ) and his love and fellow freak Liz ( Selma Blair ) to put a stop to that . This was a pretty enjoyable film . Kind of like " Indiana Jones " meets " X-Files " . Ron Perlman does a good job with the loner , wisecracking persona of Hellboy . Selma Blair , while not the " traditional " connotation of the word beauty , still has something about her that oozes sexiness . And for a summer blockbuster , it's ahead of the curve for recent films of that Ilk . Also was I the only one who thought Jeffrey Tambor and Ron Perlman sounded remarkably alike in this film ? ? 3 Disc Director's Cut DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Director's Cut of the film ; Introduction & commentary by director / co-writer Guillermo del Toro ; Isolated score , with commentary by composer Marco Beltrami ; 8 comics drawn by Mike Mignola , and written by del Toro ; 8 short set visits ; and a Storyboard track Disc 2 ) Introduction by actress Selma Blair ; 3 Deleted Scenes with optional commentary ; " Hellboy : The Seeds of Creation " documentary ; Cast and Crew Filmographies ; Character Biographies ; Ogdru Jahad scene , Animatics , & Board-a-Matics all with director's introductions ; Storyboards comparisons ; Maquette Video Gallery ; 9 TV Spots ; Stills gallery ; Teaser & Theatrical Trailers ; and Trailers for The Forgotten , Seinfeld , Spider-Man 2 , Spider-Man : The New Animated Series , 13 Going On 30 , White Chicks , Stephen King Presents Kingdom Hospital , Anacondas : The Hunt For The Blood Orchid , Resident Evil : Apocalypse , and Kaena Disc 3 ) Introduction by actor Ron Perlman ; video commentary with Perlman , Blair , Jeffrey Tambor , and Rupert Evans Production workshops for the theatrical version of the film ; Make-up and lighting tests with commentary ; Comic-Con 2002 Q & A with Guillermo del Toro , Ron Perlman , and Mike Mignola ; A Quick Guide To Understanding Comics , with Scott McCloud ; Stills and art galleries ; and Trailers for " Labyrinth " , " Mirrormask " , " The Dark Crystal " , & " Underworld " Easter Eggs : On Disc 1 , on the Main Menu highlight " Introduction " , press up an enter for an apology from del Toro for the introduction , then go to the Special Features menu , highlight " Main Menu " , press down , and enter for 42 quotes from del Toro . DVD-Rom content : On Disc one , you get the screenplay ; Script supervisor's notebook ; & Excerpts from Guillermo del Toro's director notebook all in . PDF format
possibly Dante's best since " Gremlins "	A pair of toy manufacturers ( David Cross and Jay Mohr ) make a two line of toys that are powered by a state-of-the-art military chips . They are so powerful and so advanced that they go to war with each other , waging carnage around town in this vastly underrated kid's film that is quite possibly Joe Dante's best film since the original Gremlins . And although the film never quite reaches that height , it's still a very fun , if slightly dark movie . The fact that some of my favorite actors ( David Cross , Denis Leary , Phil Hartman , Dick Miller ) have bit parts in this film is just icing on an already tasty cake . I'll even go so far as to say if I was just born a decade later than I was , this very well could have been one of my favorite films . DVD Extras : Around 6 minutes of Deleted scenes ; 11 minutes & 20 seconds of Behind-the-scenes footage ; Sneak peek at the Playstation game ; 5 minutes of Bloopers ( mostly Jay Mohr with David Cross ) ; Cast & crew bios ; Production notes ; and Theatrical trailer
like a better acted Troma film	Poor Lionel is tried of taking crap from the workers in the building that employs his Custodial services , so he goes on a rampage mutilating anyone who looks at him the wrong way . Mr . Growboi s a fellow janitor who looks to Lional as a son and helps him cover his bloody tracks . However Mr . Growbo isn't someone you should spurn . With horror comedies , they either work or they suck . No middle ground here . Fortunately this one works , coming off as a moderately well acted version of a Troma film ( Lloyd Kaufman even has a cameo ) . It's gory , has gratuitous toplessness , and is frequently quite fun . The character of Lional kinda reminded me of a cross between Peter Jackson circa " Bad Taste " and Orville Ketchum from " Hard to Die " and " Sorority House Massacre 2 " . My hats off to Andy Signore , TJ Nordaker , and everyone else involved in the production . You guys know how to bring a tear to the eye of a drunken jaded exploitative horror fan . Eye Candy : Rachael Ann Bennett , Crystal LeBard , Stephanie Medina , and Tusdi Rodriguez get topless DVD Extras : Commentary by Andy Signore , John Carreon , and TJ Nordaker ; a 58 minute Making of ; " th Office is Closed " short film ; Lackadaisical Music video ; Photo gallery ; Deleted scenes ; and the trailer 2 Easter Egg : Bruce Cronander improvising & missing his cue ; more nudity set to music
a minor lost classic	Françoise and Anna , a couple on holiday , stop at a local tavern only to be weirded out by a dwarf . Upon leaving , they get lost as women are known to do and their car breaks down so they choose to spend the night in a barn . They makes out heavily before falling asleep , the next day Françoise awakes to find Anna missing . The dwarf is there and tells her that he knows where her friend is , leads her to the castle of one Morgana LaFey , an immortal witch who grants immortality to other young women in exchange for their souls . But it isn't long before jealously takes hold of the other girls . This film came as bit of a revelation to me in that I only bought it because the name and cover lept out at me , plus the fact that it was on sale didn't hurt in the least . It exceeded my expectations and I found it to be a heavily erotic , gripping , ambiance thick film . A minor lost classic that one would do well to seek out . Eye Candy : Every girl in the film shows various amounts of skin Mondo Macabro DVD Extras : 3 Alternate & Deleted scenes ; " Un Couple D'Artistes " Short film ; 11 minute interview with Director Bruno Gantillon ; poster & stills gallery ; Theatrical trailer ; and a VERY gory nudity filled compilation trailer including " French Sex Murders " , " Living Doll " , " Satanico Pandemonium " , " Panic Beats " , " Clonus " , " the Killer must kill again " , " the mansion of madness " , " Alucarda " , " the diabolical Dr . Z " , " Aswang " , " the Living Corpse " , " Blood of the Virgins " , " Seven women for Satan " , " Lady Terminator " , " Crazy love " , " Mill of the stone women " , & " Dangerous Seductress "
not a Bozo in the bunch	Alien clowns land on Earth and terrorize people . It's up to Mike and Debbie along with their friends to destroy said clowns but with a K . This film has b-movie cult classic not just written all over it , but integrated into it's celluloid DNA . So many classic scenes and memorable lines . For me the best part of the film was the late great John " Dean " Vernon as the crank , unbelieving police chief . Every line he says is classic , He will be missed greatly . On a side note , one of the Klowns looks like my cousin when he was younger . THAT'S hilarious in itself to no end . DVD Extras : Commentary with the Chiodo brothers ; 5 featurettes ( Making of , Composing , Visual effects , Kreating , and earliest films ) ; 2 deleted scenes with optional commentary ; Bloopers ; Storyboard gallery ; Photo gallery ; and Theatrical Trailer Easter Eggs : Highlight 2 popcorn kernels on the extras page for a scene censored for TV and Klown auditions
It all started here	Sonny Crockett ( Don Johnson ) is on the trail of finding Colombian drug-lord , Calderone , who killed his partner ( Jimmy Smit , who would later get killed on NYPD Blue ) , when his runs into Rico Tubbs ( Philip Thomas ) who's out to avenger his brother's death at the same man's hands . Miami Vice affected pretty much every aspect of American culture in the ' 80's . Sonny was the epitome of cool . And it all started here , in the pilot episode / TV movie . Perhaps it didn't age well , but I still like watching it every now and then . It can be seen on the Season one DVD set of the show .
Trista makes this short good	A man claiming to be a police detective ( Raymond Karl ) is on the search for a killer whom he believes to be in an apartment building in this 6 minute and 23 second short . He enters Trista Dylan's apartment . I thought I had the ending guessed , but I was wrong , so I enjoyed this short . Plus it doesn't hurt in the least that Trista is very easy on the eyes . I enjoyed that as well . She should star in a feature film , yea I know that she was in " A Little Bit of Lipstick " , but I mean she should be the main player in a movie . She's one to keep on the lookout for . My Short
2005's AVN award winner for best film	Jim Mitchell ( Justine Serling ) is a lonely , somewhat creepy guy , whom bored with his dreary life decides to go to a masseuse named Barbara ( Jenna Jameson ) . He starts spending more and more time with her , becoming more and more obsessed , not caring that his co-worker ( Maya Divine ) is attracted to him . This is a remake of Paul Thomas's own 1990 original and I just have to say even though I do like the original version , I enjoyed this remake a bit more . Furthermore , I've never been one for more than light bondage , but seeing Jenna tied up like that was really hot . But when the action isn't focused on Jenna and Justin , the film tends to falter a bit . My Porn
one of the better episodes of the series	Jimmy and Ron are two ex-convicts who hide out in what they believe to be a vacant model house where there's also money to be found for the taking . Things don't go as planned as they find that the house isn't quite so empty with a family living there . This episode is among the best of the series , thanks in no small part to the acting talents of James Remar as the homicidal Ron , he brings such a ferocious power to his role , that one can't help but be on the edge of your seat for most of the duration of the episode . And yes it's really that good . The twist ending is pretty damn cool to boot . This is one of the episodes that can be found on disc 2 of Volume 1 of the US release . It also has optional commentary by director Carl Schenkel .
one of the best episodes of the series	When Debby Hunt begins cheating on her novelist husband Jeffrey ( Willem Dafoe ) with his publicist Tony of all people , he decides to fake his own death in order to achieve immortality in the literary world and attempt to reconcile his ailing relationship . This doesn't sit well at all with the two adulterous lovers who vow to kill him for real . I enjoyed this episode a lot and had fun with the twists and turns of the story to say any more would spoil a delightful little tale , so i won't . But suffice it to say , if only all or even half of the series was as good as this one was then the show would have been a bonifide classic as opposed to the mild cult classic success that it currently enjoys . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker . It also has optional commentary by Director Carl Schenkel who has pretty much nothing at all to say making it one of the worst commentary tracks that I've ever heard in my life . Eye Candy : Dayle Haddon shows T & A , as well as a rather quick full frontal
so happy i can cry	This anthology DVD of Cure songs includes the music videos for Boys Don't Cry , A Forest , Let's Go To Bed , The Walk , The Lovecats Inbetween Days , Close To Me , Why Can't I Be You ? , Just Like Heaven , Lullaby , Lovesong , Never Enough , High , Friday I'm In Love , Mint Car , Wrong Number , Cut Here , and Just Say Yes . And acoustic versions of five of those . PLUS three other music videos as Easter Eggs ( Pictures of You , The Caterpillar , and a remix of Close to Me ) Sure , there aren't any extras like the Beastie Boys Anthology . But come on ? If you're a REAL Cure fan you NEED this DVD ! ! It's greatness personified .
torso rises head and shoulders	A killer is killing coeds and Jane ( Suzy Kendall ) gets stuck in a rented house with him in this VERY unjustly under-rated thriller giallo . The last third of the film when Suzy is trying to hide from the killer is worth the price of admission alone , not to say what comes before that isn't good as well . This Sergio Martino directed film could hang out with the films of Bava and Argento any day . A must for anyone who really loves the genre . My Grade : DVD Extras : International and American Trailers ( one of the few times , i actually like the American trailer better ) Eye Candy : Patrizia Adiutori , Cristina Airoldi , Carla Brait , and Angela Covello all show much flesh
sci-fi classic	Klaatu , an alien from beyond the stars arrives with his robot companion , Gort , to preach a message of peace to Earth's inhabitants . When his first plan doesn't work as well as hoped , he escapes and moves in as a border with an Earth family , taking the surname of Carpenter . Of course with human nature to fear what is not known , he has trouble getting his message across . In addition not telling any singular nation alone his plan further hinders him . What makes this film intriguing is that it seems politically neutral as both the right and left wings can grab onto certain elements of the movie and run with them . It's always a joy to find a piece of cinema that doesn't spell everything out to the audience , thus reducing the intelligence of said movie dramatically . This is a huge problem of more recent cinema outings . And that's part of the reason why this film had not only stood the test of time , but strived to become one of the top echelon of science fiction films of all time . DVD Extras : Commentary by director Robert Wise and Nicolas Meyer ; Movietone Newsreel footage from 1951 ; and Theatrical trailer on Side A . 80 and a half minute " Making The Earth Stand Still " documentary ; Restoration comparison ; Stills galleries ; Shooting script ; and Trailers for " One Million Years , BC " , & " Journey To The Center Of The Earth " on Side B .
no the best , but funny none the less	Daffy Duck along with comedy sidekick Porky Pig go to a old west town only to discover the local sheriff is dead . So Daffy becomes the new sheriff and has to fend with the likes of Nasty Canasta . While not among the best of Looney Tunes that I've seen , it's still pretty good . Also it's nice to hear Porky's last line which is cut whenever the short airs on television . I never really understood that , by the way , you have gun play throughout the short AND an implied joke of panther's urine , but a joke about cleaning up horse poo is a no no ? ? Now that IS looney . This funny cartoon is on Disk 2 of the " Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 " . It also has an optional commentary track as well as a music-only track .
forgotten gem	An art specialist goes to an Italian village to restore a painting of Saint Sebastian in an old church . While there he finds people are treating him strangely and becomes infatuated with a teacher , he also gets drawn into a mystery when people start dying . A brilliant atmosphere and superb pacing make this one a joy to watch . The story ain't nothing to scoff at either . Truly one of the superior Giallo films , and it's a shame That Pupi Avati isn't as well known in the States as Argento . DVD Extras : 16 minute restoration featurette ; Lobby Card Gallery , Filmographies ; and Theatrical Trailer
cut off to early	Peter Dragon , ( Jay Mohr ) is an arrogant , narcissistic , biligeren movie producer . But after his newest film " Slow Torture " bombs badly , he's also in dire need of a hit . This series revolves around him trying to get that hopeful hit " Beverly Hills Gun Club " off the ground and made , dealing with his ex-prostitute turned VP of production , a closeted gay leading action hero , drug-addled replacment leading man , heavily put upon writer , fat actess , and finding funding for it all . Sadly this only lasted 8 episodes on Fox ( 5 additional would be shown on sister cable network , FX ) before cancellation , perhaps it was easy to predict as the show had black humor , & sharp satire . Perhaps it was a tad too ' inside ' to appeal to the appointed time-slot it was given . But it was also hilarious and witty in spades . Well-acted all around , it's a shame it wasn't able to stay on a bit longer . Thankfully , the un-bleeped DVD set ( I Won't call it uncensored , as the nudity is still black boxed out ) is out so others can see what they missed out on .
Come on , we're talking cable	Randall Peltzer ( the late Hoyt Axton ) , while going all around town trying to sell his faulty wacky inventions , accidentally stumbles on a cute little Mogwai at an antique china store . The owner refuse to sell it , but the kid sees dollar signs and sells it to Mr . Peltzer , telling him three things never to do to the creature . So back in Kingston Falls , the misguided inventor presents it to his son , Billy ( Zach Galligan ) telling him the warning that the Chinese boy imparted to him . Needless to say , Billy ignores all three rules and soon evil little Gremlins are all over town causing rampant destruction . This movie is greatness in every single way . With style , charm , and humor to spare , this film was among the top echelon of movies from the glorious ' 80's ( Man that decade was GREAT to be a kid or teenager in ) . Never overtly slapstick comical , this film is still tongue firmly in cheek none the less and seeing the amazingly great Dick Miller is ALWAYS a treat . By the by , call me dense but I never realized that Howie Mandell did the voice for Gizmo . That's kinda neat . This was followed by a sequel that's just about every bit as good as the original . Special Edition DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Joe Dante , Producer Mike Finnell and Gremlins Creator Chris Walas , Second Commentary by Dante and Actors Zach Galligan , Phoebe Cates , Dick Miller and Howie Mandel ; Cast & Crews bios ; 8 Additional Scenes ( with Optional Commentary ; Photo Gallery ; short vintage featurette ; Theatrical & Re-issue Trailer ; and Trailer for " Gremlins 2 : The New Batch "
who is that masked man ?	Bugs Bunny has to go Mano-a-rabbito as " the Masked Terror " for a wrestling bout with the Crusher after he easily pummels his former opponent and Bug's source of income , Ravashing Ronald . The rascally rabbit is also outmatched physically , so he has to pull some cunninggly clever yet somewhat devious tricks from his sleeves . I liked this cartoon a lot and it makes me chuckle every single time I see it . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional music and effects only track .
We're expecting you	When Mark finds out his best friend Sam is getting too friendly with his wife . Sharon . He sends her on an all girl cruise ( not before he forces Sharon and Sam to sleep together one more time of course ) . He think this will teach her a lesson . But unbeknowst to him two male stowaways dressed as women will be on this trip as well . The typical porn shenanigans prevail . While this movie doesn't rival David Frazer's later made classic " Pink Lagoon " , it's still a lot of fun and hearkens back to the good ol ' days when porn wasn't homogenized to the point of being boringly redundant . One of the best compliments one can give an adult film is that it's able to keep your attention throughout the length of the movie ( as opposed to 5 minute ' sessions ' so to speak ) and this one succeeds in that .
best Punisher game thus far , but if the final game was as violent as the demo it would have been MUCH better	Thomas Jane lends his voice to the Punisher game which is based on the comic more than the recent movie ( they DO tie it into the game by who a main villain turns out to be , but I hated the reveal that a major Punisher comic villain is one of the villains from the film ) . The controls are easy to master and it's fun to play . In fact , if I didn't play the demo for this game before the actual game itself I would have liked it a lot more . See the demo was MUCH more violent and the choose to tone it down quite a bit to secure an M rating . Yes if the game was released like the demo it would have likely gotten an Adults Only certificate . What we DO wind up with is exciting and fun enough , and the special kills are still brutal . I enjoyed the many special cameos from other Marvel comics as well . I just can't keep from wondering about the game that might have been .
Who ya gonna call ?	Dominic ' Prison Break ' Purcell gets drunk with two of his friends and they all dance on graves which doesn't sit well while the insane dead people who's graves they're dancing on and the ghosts decide to haunt these fools . OK , granted the plot is not the most stable , but I found myself enjoying this throwback to ' 80's horror film none the less . If you forgive the opening sequence that has jack all to do with the rest of the film and the mind baffling climax that turns a pretty cool little horror flick into a borderline comedy , you'll find yourself with a decent film . One capable of providing a few thrills and chills . Purcell was good as the main lead . Almost made me forgive Mike Mandez for " Bimbo Movie Bash " . . . ALMOST . Lionsgate's DVD Extras ( R1 ) : Commentary by director Mike Mendez and composer Joe Bashara ; 13 minute Making of featurette ; deleted scenes ; 12 minute look at the making of the ghosts ( all of the aforementioned extras have optional commentary ) ; storyboard gallery ; 3 minute promo trailer ; an After Dark compilation trailer ; and trailers for Unrest , Reincarnation , the Hamiltons , Dark Ride , & Penny DreadfulEaster Egg : In the special features menu , highlight the " Also from Lion's Gate " icon and press right for a grave marker icon , click it for a short scene of how a certain effect was done
Great flick , steer clear of the awful sequel though	John Travolta ( who's extremely uneven about the quality of roles he picks ) is thankfully great as Chilli Palmer , a mobster who's interested in breaking into the movie biz in this great adaption of an Elmore Leonard book . I was always a fan of Elmore's stories , but in the mid to late ' 90's Mr . Leonard was golden movie adaption-wise as well , with this movie , Jackie Brown , Out of Sight , and his TV film Last Stand at Saber River , and Gold Cost . Sadly the adaptations of the new millennium leave MUCH to be desired thus far . But back to the movie at hand , the acting by Travolta , Hackman , Russo , Dennis Farina , and Gandolfini are all pitch perfect . While Devito and especially Bette Midler leave a bit to be desired . All in all a fun dark comedy . Hard to believe that Director Barry Sonnenfield ever did anything good as his other films are so bad . So i'll put all the credit on Screenplay writer Scott Frank , and of course Elmore Leonard himself . Followed by " Be Cool " a dreadful movie . 2 Disk Collector's edition DVD Extras : Disk 1 : Commentary with Barry Sonnenfeld ; and a Trailer for " Be Cool " Disc 2 ) 2 featurettes ( Look at Me , and Wisguys & dolls ) ; talking about and showing the deleted Graveyard scene ; out-takes ; party reel ; " Be Cool " sneak Peek ; script to screen ; photo gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; a compilation Trailer ; Trailers for " The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly " and " Fargo " It also cam with a free ticket to " Be Cool " , which may be the first free thing I give away LOL
very nice	I waited till this came to cable simply because I wasn't going to pay 15 dollars to see one movie which we split in half out of typical Weinstein greed . Plus it afforded me the luxury of seeing both films back to back . Whereas the first half was all glitz and lightning fast action set pieces , which was a fun ride . This half is more typically Tarantino in relation to the dialog that seems to crackle and ooze coolness . Not to say there isn't any action , as there are a few great stand-out set pieces to be had , just not as manic as the first half . This is leisurely and takes it's time and for true fans , it's all the better for it . David Carradine is great as Bill , Uma gets her most-rounded performance in her career , and while the movie , as a whole , isn't as sheerly fun as Pulp Fiction , nor as perfect as the sadly under-rated Jackie Brown , it still makes for a hell of a ride . One thing that tee'd me off was the credits " based on a story by Q & U " , which just struck me as overly pretentious of them . But that's obviously just my opinion . Signing off , K
getting ' lucky ' the Peep way	Jeremy persuades Mark to shake things up a bit by going to a party that he knows about . Once there Mark chats up a little goth girl . Later on They along with the goth and Toni , who Jeremy rings up go bowling , where straight-laced Mark takes drugs for the first time . And runs into the co-worker he's been smitten with , Sophie who is out on a date of her own . By the third episode this show already has me hooked , the writing and acting are great . The funny bits are hilarious and I eagerly await every new episode . It's still not on the same level as " the Office " was ( a show that frequently gets mentioned in the same sentence ) But it's very good none the less .
Pierre Morel avoids the ' sophmore slump ' after the highly enjoyable District B13	Ex-CIA operative , Bryan Mills ( Liam Neeson ) lets his 17 year old virgin daughter , Kim ( Maggie Grace of " Lost " fame ) travel to Paris with her friend not knowing it's to follow the band , U2 , when he gives his reluctant permission . It seems that daddy does indeed know best , as the girls are not in the City of Lights too long before they're abruptly abducted for nefarious purposes . Bryan is on the phone with Kim at the time and upon hearing what's happening , uses his CIA training and prepares to go all Jack Bauer on their collective asses . The middle to late 2000's have been great for Liam Neeson with fantastic roles in Batman Begins , Seraphim Falls , and a memorable videogamed role in the superb Fable 3 . This film does nothing to change the mojo he currently possesses despite a slow start and a few action film clichés . Neeson is damn good in his role here and is quite the bad ass ( a lot of people were surprised , I'm not one of those because I witnessed it in Seraphim Falls as well ) and he carries the movie himself , as Maggie Grace just blew her role ( I can't even begin to tell you how ) . Famke Janssen doesn't fare much better as Bryan's ex-wife , yet both these parts were relatively small enough to casually dismiss . This is Liam's movie through and through .
better than the first , not as good as the second	Filmed back-to-back with the second Sleepaway camp , this retains that film's tongue in cheek feel . As Angela , ( Pamela Springsteen ) , this time masquerading as a camper at Camp New Horizon an experimental camp for bitter inner-city kids . If you enjoyed the previous film , there's a good chance that you'll like this one as well . Personally I like the second film a tad bit more and consider it to be the best in the series thus far . But Micheal J . Pollard as a horny camp counselor , some cool murders , and a good deal of nudity make this one fun to watch as well . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Michael A . Simpson , Writer Fritz Gordon and Moderator John Klyza ; Behind-the-Scenes featurette ; Deleted Scenes ; Behind-the-Scenes footage and Outtakes ; 3 Still Galleries ; and Theatrical Trailer Easter Eggs : In the Extras menu highlight the logo on Angela's T-shirt for a clip of a news story footage on the film ; In the commentary menu highlight the logo for a poster for the never completed Sleepaway Camp 4
unhappy campers , happy gore-hounds	Whereas the first Sleepaway camp wasn't meant to by funny ( but was ) , this one plays it tounge firmly in cheek with mixed results . Bruce Springsteen's sister Pam seems willing enough to overact as the homicidal camp councilor . Emilo Estevez's sister Renee as the boring good girl . The Murders are creative enough . Cheesy but fun sums it up best . My Grade : bloody machetesWhere i saw it : on the Box set ( Sleepaway camp 1 , 2 , 3 , and the unfinished part 4 ) Extras : commentary by director , writer & moderator , theatrical trailer , Behind the scenes footage , outtakes , Photo galleries & a worthless teaser trailer for Sleepaway camp 3Eye Candy : Valerie Hartman sheds her top plenty o ' times , some others do too , but Valerie's Ally is the only one that stands out in my mind .
Pick out the celebs	Humphrey Bogart is in the Mocrumbo restaurant ( a spoof of the legendary Mucombo in LA ) , where Elmer Fudd is working as a chef . Bogart wants fried rabbit , so Elmer chases Bugs around in hopes of making him dinner . Half the fun is the chase and all the shenanigans that entails . The other half is spotting all the personality parodies . There's Bogert , Grocho Marx , and Lauren Bacall , of course . But there's also Leopold Stokowski , Gregory Peck , Ray Milland , Frank Sinatra , Sydney Greenstreet , and Carmen Miranda . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier .
Interesting	This 39 minute documentary can be found on the two disk Divamax Special Edition DVD of " Dawn of the Dead " . I don't recommend you watch it BEFORE you see the actual film , as it contains massive spoilers , but it's a very good supplement to watch after you see the film . It tells you how the script was MUCH huger then the budget would eventually allow . As well as going into casting , talking about the mines , the extras , and go into the special effects . It also features interviews with most of the main cast and a lot of the crew . It's a good documentary and at times better then the movie itself .
Better than the movie it's about	This 20 minute documentary features interviews with actors Tomas Millian , Ray Lovelock , and Director / Co-writer Giulio Questi ( the filthy Communist ) . The featurette covers all the bases ( the Story , why the name changes , how the director is Communist scum , etc . . . ) , but I found myself interested only when Tomas Millian was talking . He's an intriguing person . And I liked this better than the film itself , simply because of listening to him talk . This documentary can be found as an extra on the " Django Kill if you Live Shoot " disk of the Blue Underground Spahetti Western DVD collection .
you can sink your teeth into this documentary	Found on the second disc of Anchor Bay's two-disc special edition DVD of " Near Dark " , this documentary directed by David Gregory ( damn near always a good sign ) features interviews with most of the main people involved in making the classic " Near Dark " ( Jenny Wright and Joshua Miller being the only two notable absence ) . There's a lot of anecdotes for one to really sink their teeth into ( pardon the pun ) and I enjoyed this documentary immensely . The best stories coming from Lance Henrikson ( who even fleshes out his character from the movie ) and Bill Pullman , but all the stories by everyone else are interesting to hear as well . Deffinaely a befitting companion piece to quite possibly the best vampire film ever made .
worthy sequel	Finally an official sequel to Blood Feast ( Blood Diner was an unofficial one , not having seen it yet , i can't say if it's better or worse though ) . JP Delahoussaye ( man , that's a mouthful ) plays Fuad Ramses , the grandson of the original Istar worshiping nut-zoid . Anyways he re-opens the old place & before long he's in his own grandfather's nut-zoid footsteps . The film plays for high camp . Some of the jokes are inane , the acting . . . . well it IS a B horror movie , & it's a tad long ( could have been trimmed by about half an hour ) . But the blood , gore and nudity doth flow & John Waters cameos . My Grade : bloody machetesDVD Extras : Disk 1 : stills gallery ; Trailers for Zombie 5 : Killing Birds , Zombie 2 , Demons 3 : The Orge , Lizard in a Woman's skin , Flesh for the Beast , & theatrical trailer Disk 2 : On the set with Hershell Gorden Lewis ; Behind the scenes ; behind the gore ; 3 deleted scenesEye Candy : pretty much all the female cast besides Misty & Mrs . Lampley get topless at the least
Wile E . gets faster	The fifth pairing of Wile E . Coyote and the Road Runner is still good and features many gags that work , including a tiger trap , a pop-up steel wall , a motorcycle , a unfateful encounter with a train ( Stop in the name of humanity ) , and a box of Acme-brand leg-building vitamins . I love the little gag of the coyote eating a fly in the beginning as well . All these cartoons make me so very happy for some unknown reason . This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Greg Ford .
better than expected despite it's flaws	House of Wax Six friends ( including the incredibly vapid , egotistical , simple-minded Paris Hilton ) get stranded out in the middle of nowhere . When two of the gang ( including Elisha Cuthbert , on of two reasons to consider watching this ) accept a ride from a local to get into town in order to get a fan belt for their broken down car , they stumble across a curious and deadly wax museum . The film doesn't truly get started until about 45 minutes in ( one of my main beefs with this movie . It takes almost HALF the frigging ' thing to get going ! ! ) . But if you can bear with it for that long it does get better ( the last 20 minutes or so are actually pretty good and are the Second reason why you'd consider watching this ) . Having the last line spoken in the film is SO VERY annoying and needless save to starts plans for a sequel that it was nauseating . The film could have been trimmed up in the beginning and exorcised the one line out of the ending and it would've been better off from it . As it stands this is the best Dark Castle production BY FAR ( However with the previous total and utter crap they put out . That statement isn't exactly the most ringing of endorsements . ) DVD Extras : B-Roll and Bloopers Video Cast Commentary ; 3 featurettes on the Designing , Visual Effects , & Joel Silver talking up the film ; Gag reel ; an Alternate Opening ( which would have worked a hell of a lot better than the child abuse angle that had jack all to do with the rest of the movie ) ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for Seasons 1 & 2 of " Tales From the Crypt " , and " A Scanner Darkly " ( I really dislike the cell-shaded type animation it employs )
the only good movie in the series	In the first , and thus far only the only watchable , " Scary Movie " the jokes come ( cum ? ) fast and furious in a spoof on recent lame ass ' horror ' films such as " Screm " , " I know What you did Last Summer " , " Blair Witch " , and others . A good deal of the jokes hit the funny bone greatly ( well those that don't involve Dookie , or lame dated Matrix gags ) . Yeah it's VERY juvenile , potty humor , but I'd be darned if it doesn't work . I found myself laughing countless times . Don't see this film if you're an overly sensitive PC wuss , but for fans of this brand of comedy it's a real treat indeed . Followed by two god awful sequels and at last one more in the works . This is the only one that contains ANY laugh out loud moments and I'd advise you to actively avoid it's sequels . DVD Extras : 6 Deleted scenes ; a 7 minute Behind-the-Scenes Featurette ; Theatrical Trailer ; trailers for the " Scream " box set , " Gone in 60 Seconds , " Don't be a menace while drinking your juice in the Hood " , " Senseless " , & " Hellraiser : Bloodlines " ; and a Scary Movie soundtrack promo DVD-ROM Features : Screen Saver , Screenplay Viewer , Character Profiles and Scary Movie : Guide for the Culturally Challenged
Intriqing	This 39 minute and 40 second documentary can be found on the disc 2 of the Two-Disc Special Edition DVD of Purple Rain , it features interviews with pretty much everyone involved in the movie except Prince himself ( Although not surprisingly , as he hates Warner Brothers ) . Anyway the topics of what the non-actors went through to get the film on the screen , the cultural impact of the movie , the casting , and just the basic genesis of the great film . The featurette was extremely intriguing and highly watchable for any true fan of what is one of the best musical movies ever . ( Not an out right just because of Prince not being involved )
for a history lesson , look elsewhere , but it's good entertainment none the less	Anyone who'd go see this film about 300 Spartans who hold off the endlessly vast Persian army expecting a history lesson of any sort would be well off picking up a book sometime . No , the order of the day is heavily stylized violence and a good Frank Miller adaption . Well-acted given the superficial tone of the film . Having the feel of the epic " Braveheart " ( but not excelling to the greatness of that modern day classic ) , I did enjoy the film for what it was . Of course they will be some tools who use the film to promote a given agenda , be it liberal or conservative . ( but such is the case with any film touching on the subject of war of any kind ) . Try to ignore those conversations as both sides are looking too deeply in a movie this shallow . Perhaps the film would have been better if they played it a little more straight and nixed the elements that bring the film into the fantasy realm , however Gerarld Butler pretty much nailed the role of King Leonidas ( grossly glaring inaccuracies aside ) and Director Zack Snyder , who's already accomplished the impossible by making a horror remake that was not only watchable , but able to stand on it's own merits , has another winning film to add to his short but not insubstantial resume .
pretty good	Jeff ( Patrick Wilson of the crap-tastic " The Alamo " ) is a pedophile who meets his match in 14 year old Haley ( Ellen Page , perhaps better known for being Kitty Pride in X-men 3 ) , a girl he meets in a teen chat-room , who promptly turns the tables on him when she's taken back to his place . For the most part this film s pretty involving and intriguing . There are a few instances where it does get a bit far-fetched , however I feel that the movie was good enough that I can forgive it for it's lapses in judgment . It's also well acted and kept my interests throughout . On a side-note , I keep hearing those that view Haley as being a monster of some kind , this of course is preposterous thinking and stems from the VERY liberal theory that child molesters can be redeemed or rehabilitated in any way , shape , or form . Of course that is a load of BS and if you feel that way perhaps this is not a film for you . Go watch the " Jeepers Creepers " films instead and support a real life pedophile . Yes , I had to throw a Victor Salva comment in there somewhere . DVD Extras : Audio commentary with director David Slade and writer Brian Nelson ; Second commentary with actors Patrick Wilson and Ellen Page ; A 52 minute Making of ; 9 minute featurette ; 6 deleted scenes ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailers for " See No Evil " , " An American Haunting " , " Desperation " , & " Are you Scared " DVD-Rom content : Script & Director's Notebook
Psycho meets Flowers in the Attic	Director / screenwriter Sandor Stern ( who you might remember also adapted the book The Amityville Horror for the silver-screen in 1979 ) brings another book to the screen , in this case one by Andrew Neiderman , who penned a book that would later be a tad more popular the Devil's Advocate , perhaps you've heard of it . Leon ( David Hewlett of Stargate : Atlantis and Scanners 2 ) and Ursula ( Cynthia Preston , the voice of Zelda in the Lenged of Zelda ) are living on their own in their parents mansion after they die in a car accident . Leon is a tad off to say the least and chooses to have Pin , a life-sized anatomically correct medical dummy that his father ( the legendary Terry O'Quinn ) had used as a ventriloquist doll , as his best friend . When Leon feels threatened be it from an aunt that the siblings don't particularly care for or an admirer of Ursula that Leon gets jealous of ( yes Leon's slightly incestrial , I neglected to mention that ) , bad things start to happen . This film comes off like a slightly more twisted version of Psycho , with the dummy providing stand-in for Norman's deceased mother . It's never a question of Leon being very mentally ill , but the movie is just provides a morbid and tense enough atmosphere to stand on it's own right . There are a few plot points that don't go anywhere ( both Urusula's abortion & the strange nurse who gets off on Pin are no sooner mentioned as they are forgotten , the latter being a particular WTF moment , although that experience could've contributed to young Leon's mental state in retrospect ) , but overall it's a tightly told tale that I found myself happy to watch . Just don't go into the film expecting a scare-fest , as it's much more concerned with the psychological terror . And to think if I hadn't saw this on Instant Netflix via Xbox 360 , I would not have given it a chance . That would truly have been a crying shame . Eye Candy : Helene Udy gets topless
a nice Elseworlds fan-made trailer	This 5 and a half minute fan-film / mock trailer about Robin taking up the mantle of the Bat legacy to avenge a deceased Bruce Wayne is pretty good and brought a smile to my face . In an alternative reality there's no question that I would be the first in line to see such a movie . The Joker wasn't Boner from " Growing Pains " in this one and THAT right there makes it better than " Batman : Dead End " ( which was good and everything , but didn't have much of a plot behind the fighting at all ) Plus this has former wrestler DDP's wife , Kimberly , as Catwoman and that's hot much MUCH better than that Halle Barry crap-fest .
Best of the trilogy	Two hit men ( Riki Takeuchi and Sho Aikawa ) cross paths while pulling off a job . They decide to run a playground and reminisce about their shared childhood . Quite a bit lighter in tone than the original " Dead or Alive " which the sequel has ( apart from the same two lead actors ) nothing in common with . When I say ' lighter in tone ' , I of course mean for a Takashi Miike film . This movie is more about the wonders and joys of children growing up , not yet jaded by how the world really is . Fans of Miike's bizarreness won't be disappointed with it either . I myself like this film more then the first one and is superbly acted . DVD Extras : Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Dead or Alive " " Dead or Alive Final " , " Sharkskin and Peach Hip Girl " and " Junk Food "
rather good for the minuscule budget	Taking place mostly at a small apartment building in downtown Manhattan whose inhabitants must deal with murderous rats , as well as the zombie rat-people that those they bite devolve into . This low-budget really surprised me ( it being a part of the After Dark ' 8 films to die for ' didn't really provoke confidence as most of those films I've seen previous to this one were awful ) However this film kept my interests throughout & a testament that supremely low-budget films can be good if the film maker has an eye on the ball , plans it all out ahead of time and has a real passion for cinema . Well acted , but characterization is a tad sparse , however that's all right as the film is tense and tightly made so it's not a huge problem . Nick Damici does a great job both behind and in front of the camera .
lives up to it's name	While her husband is away on business , Elain Stone ( Honey Wilder ) attempts to fire Margo and Carl ( Carmel and John Leslie , respectively ) her perverted live-in help , who end up seducing her into a three-way within minutes . While step-daughter , Connie ( Adult film mainstay and Farrah Fawcett look-a-like , Rhonda Jo Petty ) , goes out looking for lust . Oh who am I kidding ? This one doesn't have a plot to summarize , but the sex scenes are pretty hot and look for a young leaner Ron Jeremy , before he became a fatter caricature of himself . Plus Miss Petty is always hot .
Bowie at his best	An alien ( David Bowie ) comes to Earth to bring back glorious water to his ailing planet . Upon arriving he finds an attorney to show his numerous patents to , thus making him a very wealthy creature indeed and starts him on the way to getting the profit needed to build a return spaceship . Rip Torn is a aging college professor who is growing tired of teaching and banging his students , yearning for more . The path of these two will converge soon enough . Nicolas Roeg is a pretty challenging director practically daring the viewing to come to their on opinions on his style . Not really seeming to give a damn about the commercial aspects ( or lack there of ) of the movies that he makes . And although I found it much easier to form an opinion on this one than say " Walkabout " ( which I'm still on the fence with to this day ) , I found it harder to decipher than his later " Insignificance " , which stuck me quite quickly that it was . . well . . . insignificant . Due to the superb performances of Rip Torn and Bowie ( in the role of his life ) I found myself liking this one more than not . It is equal parts compelling , engaging , frustrating , beautiful and difficult . DVD Extras : Disc 2 ) the 24 minute documentary " Watching the Alien " ; Poster and Stills gallery ; Talent Bios for Nicolas Roeg and David Bowie ; 2 TV Spots ; 2 US and 1 International Theatrical trailers ; and US and international teasers DVD-ROM : the Original Screenplay in . PDF Eye Candy : Candy Clark , Hillary Holland , Linda Hutton , Adrienna Larussa , and Claudia Jennings show everything ; Linda Hutton only exposes breast as well as ass For the Ladies : Rip Torn , David Bowie and Bernie Casey do too
Exploitation 101 ( required viewing )	This infamous exploitation flick about well-endowed sadistic Nazi warden Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) is not for everyone's tastes to say the absolute least . But for true fans of the exploitation genre it falls in the top 5 of all time . Yes , some scenes are hard to sit through . Yes the subject matter is tasteless . Yet nearly 30 years after it's releases it's STILL being talked about . For such a low-budgeted picture like this is just amazing . For the squeamish among you STAY AWAY from this movie . All others proceed with caution . DVD Extras : Commentary by Producer David F . Friedman , Director Don Edmunds , star Dyanne Thorne & humorist Martin Lewis ; Theatrical Trailer ; Bios for David F . Friedman , Don Edmunds & Dyanne Thorne
an ' 80's werewolf classic	After a heavily traumatic incident with a serial killer , and a subsequent breakdown on national television , it's suggested that newswoman , Karen White , go on a retreat known simply as " the Colony " , in this classic werewolf film from the ' 80's . Great ( for their time ) special effects , and an amazing sense of tension and thrills , make this one any self respecting horror fan has to own in his or her collection . Fans can further be delighted by genre mainstay Dick Miller , in a cameo as a rare occult bookseller . the only way this film could have been better was some nudity by Dee Wallace , well and with that hokey last shot of the werewolf sex scene . Eye Candy : Beverly Warren and Elisabeth Brooks have full frontal DVD Extras : Both Widescreen and Fullscreen versions ; Commentary ( taken from the old laser disc ) by Director / Co-Editor Joe Dante , Actress Dee Wallace-Stone , Actors Christopher Stone and Robert Picardo ; " Unleashing The Beast " documentary ( 45mins ) ; 1981 Promo Making-Of ; Deleted Scenes ( 10mins ) ; Outtakes ( 5mins ) ; 2 Photo Galleries ; 2 Theatrical TrailersEaster Egg : In the Extra features section of side A , click on the smiley face for a short interview with Dick Miller
The Next Generation's best film hands down	The next generation crew of the Enterprise star in their best movie . Picard and his crew hitch a ride back in time to save the Galaxy from being infested with Borg , by saving the drunkard who invented Warp Drive from being killed by the Borg . This Star Trek movie is nuanced enough for the ' trekkies ' to get into , while still being very accessible to the rest of the cinema going public . Johnathon Frakes , for all of his smarmy , cocky demeanor , still I have to admit that he hits a home-run in this initial outing ( now his " Insurection " is a whole nother story , one for a different day ) This film is action-packed , features good performances , and is just plain fun . All those aforementioned traits easily puts it among the top echelon of Trek films . DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary with director / actor Jonathan Frakes ; Second commentary with writers Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore ; Text Commentary with Michael and Denise Okuda Disc 2 ) 12 featurettes ( Making ' First Contact ' , The Art Of ' First Contact ' , " The Story , The Missile Silo , The Deflector Dish , From ' A ' to ' E ' , Jerry Goldsmith : A Tribute , The Legacy Of Zefram Cochrane , ' First Contact ' : The Possibilities , Unimatrix One , The Queen , and Design Matrix ) ; 3 Scene Deconstruction ; Storyboards , Photo Gallery ; Teaser & Theatrical Trailers ; and Trailer for the Borg Invasion Hilton show in Vegas3 Easter Eggs : In the Main Menu , click on the sun for a list of all the alternative titles considered ; In the Star Trek Universe menu highlight a circle for an interview with Ethan Philips ; In The Borg Collective menu highlight a circle for an interview with Alex Jaeger
A man and his coffin	Franco Nero is Django , a man dragging a coffin behind him , seeking vengeance for the wrongs dealt to him and his loved one in the Western staple . When we first meet him he saves a hybrid girl from being horse-whipped . But which side is he playing for , and where do his loyalties really lie ? Very enjoyable and the theme song is great , but avoid the dubbed version I implore you , as it's one of the worst one I've ever heard . Perhaps not as well known or as good as " the Man with No Name " trilogy , but well worth seeing none the less . Blue Underground DVD Extras : Part of BU's Spaghetti Western Collection . " Django - The One and Only " ( 13 minute documentary ) ; Poster & Stills gallery ; Talent Bios for Sergio Corbucci and Franco Nero ; Theatrical Trailer ( I have this film released by Anchor Bay as well , and while the BU version is superior , I'm keeping that one too because it has a nifty Django shoot out game and came paired with " Django Strikes Again " ) Easter Eggs : Highlight the coffin for Trailers of " Django Kill ! " , " Run , Man , Run " , and " A Man called Blade "
Kenda and her drunk friends	Porn star Kendra Jade shows up with her drunk friend Kelly and drunk stripper step-mom Caroline . They talk about ending Jerry Springer's marriage when he cheated on his wife with Kendra and her step-mom , when pictures from the videotape they made went public , meanwhile Kelly is talked into stripping down to her bra and panties for the duration of the interview , dances , & gets a breath-a-lizer . This was an amusing episode , not the best of Kendra's appearances by far , but entertaining enough . The highlight of the episode would be Missy , a friend of Springer , calling in to start a fight with Kendra , and all the smack talking that ensues . Eye Candy : Kendra flashes her tits post-interview ( uncensored during replay on Howard TV )
Hauer is great in his first American film	Rutger Hauer , in his first American movie , plays Wulfgar , a terrorist with his eye on going international by coming to New York . It's up to the at first reluctant cop Deke Desilva ( Sly Stallone ) and his partner to bring him down . The film is interesting enough and Hauer makes a great contemptible villain . One of Stallone's non-franchise films . I put it right alongside Cobra in the enjoyment category . The ending , however , seems sadly edited a lot . However it's still a great film to watch with tight performances by pretty much all the major actors involved .
Yet another sadly banned cartoon short	George , a bear , and his big oaf of a kid , Junior ( in their last appearances in a run of shorts ) , go after the smallest pygmy that they can find . This short revolves around the attempted capture of said pygmy . This Tex Avery directed , Heck Allen written short , sadly won't get much airplay in the least anymore because of racial stereotypes ( at one point they lure the black pygmy out with watermelon ) . Which is a shame as the cartoon as a whole is pretty funny . But such is the way in this sadly politically correct world that we live in . Bash Catholics , Christians , white men , or heterosexuals and it's seemingly OK . But innocent cartoons for the most part are banned and white-washed . It's a shame really . My Toon
the king of video game documentaries	A story about ' born loser ' Steve Wiebe attempting to best well known and popular Billy Mitchell by beating his world record holding top Donkey Kong score is strangely compelling and extremely watchable . ' Strangely ' only for the fact that what seems on the surface as a niche film that one would think would only be of interest to hardcore old school gamers , can , and indeed does , hold interest to anyone . Everyone loves a good underdog story and this movie delivers that in spades with all the hurdles that poor Wiebe has to go through . One can't help but root for him , even if the film is a bit manipulative in evoking said feelings from the viewer . The only gripe I had with the film is that the ending felt a tad anti-climatic . However that's only a minor quibble in an excellent documentary .
Enter Chuck Zito	Former Hell's Angel / actor / all around ass-kicker Chuck Zito stops by Howard's show ( his first appearance ) to talk about his then recent allocation with Jean-Claude Van Damme . Starting when Van Damme insulted Zito and ending in the fight , I found the story fascinating , captivating , and at turns humorous to listen to listen to . He also goes briefly into his love life and takes a few phone calls . But the episode mostly revolve's around the Van Damme incident . Needless to say , Zito proves to be a pretty good interview and it kept me entertained throughout .
Finnegan's wake	Tom Berenger is once again back on hand as our favorite fictional super sniper , Tom Beckett . This time he's sent back to Vietnam to kill Paul Finnegan , a former soldier , thought dead but gone AWOL . But the government that sends him on the mission isn't really telling him the whole truth . He teams up with the son he never knew he had ( it's never said out right , but it's pretty damn obvious ) to finish his mission . This movie was actually a good step up from the second one , thanks to the locale , some rather good action , and a better plot overall . I have no clue if a fourth film is being thought up , but if this is the last Sniper film then I'm glad that the series ended on a high note .
nice	After telling her shrink about recurring dreams that she's been having about the time of the Salem Wtch Trials , Serenity gets a mysterious phone call about how her name's on the list for a Gothic coven . Are her dreams real or just in her head ? I'm not telling , just watch the film . All the women are hot , the film has HOT sex scenes and it has an interesting story to boot . It was supposed to be the next big thing from Vived pictures after Jenna Jameson's excellent " Dreamquest " . And while it is pretty damn good and a film I'm glad to have in my small adult movie collection , It still doesn't reach the greatness that made " DreamQuest " so very phenomenal . My Adult Film
Blazing a trail of hilarity	Attorney General Hedley Lemar , convinces the simple-minded governor to send Rock Ridge , a dying old western town , a new mayor . The catch being that the new mayor is Bart ( GASP ! ) a Negro ( Cleavon Little , in the role of his lifetime ) . Obviously these racist cracker townsfolk won't stand for this dark uppity day . However Bart , along with his new deputy , a drunken sharpshooter , the Waco Kid ( Gene Wilder , excellent as always ) proves to be a thorn in Hedley's side . This , along with " Young Frankenstein " are the two most crowning achievements of not only Mel Brook's films , but comedy cinema on a whole . Most of the jokes work and the laughs just keep coming no matter how many times you watch it . All the character in addition to the main two are all memorable as well , from Alex Karras as the over-grown , dim-witted Mongo , to Harvey Korman as Hedy . . um . . I mean Hedley , and everyone in between . The non-ending ending , I'm not so much a fan of , bu the rest is gold . 30th Anniversary DVD Extras : ' scene specific ' Commentary by Mel Brooks ( which is really the same POS half-ass one as in earlier versions of this movie ) ; 28 minute & 20 second ' Back in the Saddle ' retrospective ; a small piece on Madeline Khan ; ' Black Bart ' failed pilot ; 9 minutes & 41 seconds of deleted scenes ; and Theatrical Trailer
Enter with an open mind and enjoy	A very interesting hybrid movie combining nearly every major genre of film into a potent concoction all it's own . This tale of Lee Byeong-gu and his girlfriend Sunni kidnapping wealthy business man , Kang on the suspicions that he is an actuality an alien leader is at turns hilarious , thrilling , sobering , and always watchable . The whole question of is " he or isn't he " is pretty much a moot point and that'll be argued over way after the final credits are over . ( yes I have my opinion , but this is neither the time nor place to reveal that ) The real thrill lies in just going where the movie takes you and enjoying the wild ride . Enter the film with an open mind and you will definitely NOT be disappointed . Infinitely better than the indigestible tripe coming from Hollywood nowadays . Koch Lorber DVD Extras : Deleted scenes with introductions by the Director ; 5 & a half minute Interview with Jun-hwan Jeong ; A 14 minute Making of ; 12 & a half minute of Behind the scenes ; Conversation between the director & actors ; Theme song music video by King Joe ; Korean & US theatrical trailers ; and Trailers for " Lipstick & Dynamite : the First Ladies of Wrestling " , " " , & " Divine Intervention "
good documentary , Dee Wallace is a loon though	This 54 minute documentary on " The Howling " can be found on Side B of the special Edition DVD of the aforementioned movie . It goes into detail about the origins of the movie , how they had to re-write the screenplay multiple times , the psychological aspect of the film , how they choose to update the werewolf myth . Joe Dante talks about " Hollywood Blvd . " and " Piranha " briefly , as well as the casting of the various actors and actresses . Dee Wallace comes off as a bit of a loon . And much more . I liked this documentary , you can watch it in 5 parts or in one lump sum . It was MUCH better then the 8 minute promo piece that's on the same disk .
under-rated	Harley Davidson ( Mickey Rourke ) and Marlboro ( Don Johnson ) along with their pals Jimmy , Jose and Jack Daniels rob a bank transport carrying two and a half million dollars to save the local bar they frequent from closing down . Turn out they picked the wrong transport and snagged drugs instead so now Chance ( Tom Sizemore ) sends his henchmen , including Daniel Baldwin after them . This is a vastly under-rated film , lambasted by critics when it was first was released unfairly . Mickey Rourke , just like he would over a decade later in " Sin City " OWNS this movie . Eye Candy : Chelsia Fields shows ass ; Mitzi Martin and Bobbie Tyler show breasts and buns
very much wanted	Having only a passing tie to the late ' 50's / early 60's Steve McQueen helmed TV show of the same name ( Nick is Josh grandson or some such nonsense ) , this movie is a mean and violent little number has B-movie mainstay Rutger Hauer starring as Nick Randall , a tough talking , no nonsense , ' my way or the highway ' type bounty hunter who comes out of retirement at the request of Benson . . sorry I mean Robert Guillaume ( who always has some of the best lines in the movie as Philmore Walker ) to apprehend a nefarious terrorist Arab ( played ironically by Gene Simmons ) . He does so with tactics that would make Jack Bauer whimper in the corner , while at the same time dealing with slimy bureaucratic red-tape . This is a great mindless action flick and holds up well amongst repeat viewings . But the mere fact that the Writer / Director of this great little film went on to write and direct the utterly horrid " Poltergeist III " right afterwards boggles the mind .
great escapist fare	Having just gotten out of prison , Charlie Croker ( Micheal Caine ) plans to steal 4 million dollars worth of gold arriving in Italy from China , with the help of a specially selected crew , ( including but not limited to , Benny Hill , Michael Standing , and Rossano Brazzi ) After getting financing from Mr . Bridger . They're off for the big score with three Mini Coopers , a couple of jaguars and a bus , to complete the job that his friend had died attempting to do . This was just a thrilling , funny , engrossing slice of escapist fun . It's so nice to be able to put your brain on neutral once in a wile and just enjoy a movie strictly meant to just provide entertainment and not be " thought provoking " , needlessly " edgy " . " convrentational " , or any other of those stupid prefabricated buzzwords that are thrown about endlessly in this day and age . DVD Extras : Commentary by Producer Michael Deeley and Author Matthew Field ; 3 documentaries ( The Great Idea , The Self Preservation Society , & Get a Bloomin Move on ) ; 2 minutes of deleted scene with optional commentary ; Theatrical & Rerelease trailers
more of a love letter than a true documentary , but great none the less	More of a tribute to a comedic legend than a true documentary , this John Landis directed love letter to the great Mr . Rickles is pretty good none the less . Consisting of various actors and directors of note giving their ( naturally ) praise for the beloved comedian , interspersed with clips from his Vegas shows , late show appearances , old films , Friars ' Roasts , and home movies with longtime friend , Bob Newhart . While the film does have a very small amount of missteps editing and a few instances where it veers off-topic to ill effect , for the most part it's quite highly enjoyable and hilarious to boot . Any true fan ( myself included ) of Don will no doubt treasure it and watch it multiple times . So what ya waiting ' for ? Go check it out on HBO while it's still on , Hockey Puck .
Even less than stellar Wile E . / Road Runner shorts are still HIGHLY watchable	The third pairing of Wile E . Coyote and the Road Runner is still good and features many gags that work , including the Coyote dressing up as a woman hitch-hiker , a hot-air balloon , and the old paint a road gag . The ending is a tad too much like the ending to the first cartoon , but I can simply watch ANY cartoon with the pairing of these two and be endlessly entertained every single time . It's something that I can't truly explain to anyone who isn't a fan . But those who get it know what I'm talking of . This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
pretty good	This 28 minute , 46 second documentary on the making of " Predator " can be found on the second disc of the 2-DVD set special Edition of the aforementioned movie . Combining behind the scenes footage and vintage interviews from the time of the making of the film with new ( well new as in 2001 ) interviews with the cast and crew members , this packs a lot of information in under 30 minutes . And yes there's a bit of the typical Hollywood back-slapping to be found in this , but thankfully the kept it to a minimum . It also features clips from " Commando " ( another great Arnold vehicle ) . The Sonny Landham story was a bit creepy in it's connotations . There's a few humorous stories as well . All in all a great documentary on a great action movie .
leap of faith	I thoroughly enjoyed the first part of this two parter , The Impossible Planet , and was slightly worried that the second part wouldn't hold up quite so well as has been true in the past of the two parters of the past 2 Who series . But thankfully my fears were unfounded as I found myself enjoying this episode as much as the previous one . Anyway we start off with the surviving crew members on the run from the Ood , whom have become the Devil's pawn . There is also a bit of philosophizing on the Doctor's part in the episode that I quite enjoyed . Needless to say it was a good solid Doctor Who story . Might be a tad too intense for the younger viewers though .
The one where the Doctor saves face	The Doctor and Rose hoping to arrive in New York to see Elvis perform instead find themselves in London circa 1953 , where they stumble on a plot to take the faces off of various Londoners . It's not as nearly as grotesque as the previous sentence implies , as the aforementioned faces are just kind of erased off via television sets . It all makes sense upon watching the show , I promise . Well if the last 2 episodes reminded me a bit of " Sliders " , this one definitely had the feel of " Shapphire and Rose " . Of course , enjoying that late , lamented show , I was definitely tickled by this one . Good acting by all ( save for a few bit actors ) , splendid costume and set design , witty banter , and an intriguing plot all combine to make an amusing and highly watchable episode . Even if the bit of social commentary is a bit daft and it's full of plot holes .
better than the Luke-warm response it got when first released suggests	Picard and his crew of the next generation Enterprise must rebel against an alien race , So'na , lead by Ad'har Ru'afo ( the superb F . Murray Abraham ) , and Starfleet itself , when they find out about the proposed plan to abduct the Ba'ku , a peaceful race who have forsaken technology in order to get back closer to nature , in order to get a hold of the regenerating properties of the land . It's up to the crew of the Enterprise-E to withhold the Prime Directive which states no Starfleet expedition may interfere with the natural development of other civilizations . All non-Trekkie's aren't likely to appreciate all the allusions to past Ster Trek events , as revealed on ST : TNG , nor the particularities of both the quarks and nobilities of the characters , so if you're one of those aforementioned people feel free to take a few stars of my rating . But for those well versed in the rich mythology of the universe of TNG , this film is likely to pay back said knowledge in spades with enjoyment . It's the closest thing to 2 new episodes that we're likely going to get as the film duplicate the feel and tone of the show quite admirably . Not to say that all out action has no place in the Star Trek lore , as I enjoyed " First Contact " as well , just for vastly different reasons . This is definitely a movie that has aged well and gotten long deserved respect as opposed to the short shift it got while it was in theaters . 2 disc Special Edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Text Commentary by Michael and Denise Okuda Disc 2 ) 7 Production Featurettes ; 2 Star Trek Universe Featurettes ; 3 Creating the Illusion Featurettes ; 7 Deleted Scenes with introduction by co-producer Peter Lauritson ; Storyboards ; photo gallery ; Ad for the Las Vegas Borg Invasion show ; Original promo piece ; and Teaser & Theatrical trailer 3 Easter Eggs : all 3 eggs are on disc 2 . In the Production menu to the left of " it takes a village " is a white hexagon , click on it for Marina Sirtis bitching about the food ; In the ' Star Trek Universe ' menu , highlight the word ' main menu ' and press right for another hexagon , click on it for Tom Morello of ' Rage Against the Machine ' talking about being an alien in the film ; lastly , go to the ' advertising ' menu , down to the words ' main menu ' and press left to highlight a third hexagon , click it to go to Micheal Dern and Marina Sirtis putting the movie in a nutshell , the funniest thing about this easter egg is that it comes with it's own credits listing the writer of the little egg ha
A brief glimpse of what might have been	Captain Christopher Pike ( Jeffrey Hunter ) heads the U . S . S . Starship Enterprise in this pilot that the Powers that Be passed on , forcing Gene Rodenberry to make a second pilot with Wialliam Shatner as Kirk as well as making the new version more action oriented , less cerebral and ditching the idea of a woman as second in command . But that would all come later as this review is on the topic at hand . The unaired pilot deals with Pike being held captive in a glass cage by alien beings who possess the powers of mind illusions . It's in both black & white , as well as color ( the parts that would be lated integrated into " The Menagerie " 2-part episode of Star Trek ) It's more thought-provoking , less " action-packed " then the later series would end up being . And I throughly enjoyed it . This original version can be found as an extra on the Season 3 DVD set of Star Trak by the way .
great	Located on the " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad world " DVD this hour-long documentary is full of great interviews with the surviving cast members and humorous antedotes . Among of of the better documentaries that I've seen , this one is a joy to watch . Seeing all those comedy greats does make me lament that my generation , sadly , seems to have a little less talent , which is a shame , as a film like " it's a mad , mad , mad , mad , world " couldn't be made today ( we get something like " Rat Race " which is awful ) . I recommend this documentary almost as much as I recommend the movie itself , which I give high accolades . So go out and buy the DVD of the film and watch this too .
a B movie great	A group of teenagers party after hours in a furniture store in the mall , not knowing that a trio of security robots have gone haywhire and are killing everything within sight . Made by Jim Wynorski way back when he was still good ( from ' 83 till ' 91 ) , this B-movie is a near classic and I try to get all my friends to see it at least once . Sure it has hammy acting and the effects aren't really convincing . And yea there are many plot holes . But who cares ? This movie still rocks . You get a fun atsmosphere , a few great looking babes who know where their ' talents ' lay . You have killer robots , a cameo by Dick Miller and an exploding head . Grab some friends , a few six-packs and pop this flick in . Eye Candy : Barbara Crampton and Suzee Slater show their great twins
not the best but still much fun	Duffy Duck is minding his own bee's wax when Porky Pigs comes duck hunting . Daffy uses his manic imagination to attempt to get away in many hilarious gags . This is just such a silly , fun cartoon and a joy to watch regardless of what age you are . My heart will always have a piece of it reserved to a duck and pig ( please no jokes about my ex ha ha ha ) While this man not be the absolute best Daffy cartoon , it IS up there and I have no hesitations to recommend it whatsoever This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
One of the better ' disaster ' films	Charlton Heston is a police captain on the case of a unknown sniper who's terrorizing the spectators of the Super Bowl . Not knowing the motivations of this particular sniper is a great choice on the part of the Director as it makes us more eager to sympathize with the victims ( or would be victims ) . For Roger Ebert to claim that his main problem with this film is just that , that we never see the motivations of the sniper shows less of a true fault of the film in question , and more to his far left liberal attitude to life in general . Does knowing that , that piece of sht Cho Seung-Cho was romantically jilted make him easier to relate to ? Does being a pathetic loner make Lee Boyd Malvo , or those of ANY mass murderer , any less despicable ? The resounding answer to both those questions are a obvious NO . All the reason you should need that the sniper in this film , as in real life , is doing what he's doing is obvious , there are some true sick freaks out there . Plain & simple . And I found this thriller to be suitably tense , well acted and had edge-of-your-seat action . Furthermore it seems to be sadly vastly under-rated . Word of warning if you ever come across the TV version of this film , avoid it like the plague as it complete castrates the movie and destroys the whole crux of the film .
The Decline of Western Civilization Part 1 . 5 : The psycho years	Roy and his hetero life-mate Bo are psychopaths who have a night of killing in LA . This movie , while not that great , is still good and MILES above the very over-rated crap fest that was " Natural Born Killers " . Penelope Spheeris does a pretty good job directing and Charlie Sheen plays Bo low-key to nice effect . This is also the only film I can stand Maxwell Caulfield in , so don't even mention " Grease 2 " , " Empire Records " or any of his other less-then-stellar ( to put them VERY mildly ) movies to me . Plus I like pretty much everything that Glen Morgan and James Wong write , well they only have one bad film to their credit . Or rather their only bad film is " The One " . Thankfully this is not " the One " Look for Moon Unit Zappa in a small role . Anchor Bay DVD Extras : Commentary with Penelope and Maxwell ; Cast and crew info ; and Theatrical Trailer
The Usual Suspects are Apt Pupils indeed	Rouge and Wolverine , two mutants with extraordinary powers ( Rouge can sap people's energy by more touch , while Wolverine has an exoskeleton made of an unbreakable alloy , retractable claws , and an accelerated healing factor ) . join Charles Xavier's school for gifted young students and become the newest members of a team of other mutants , called the X-men and together they fight Magneto , a Jewish mutant who hates humanity after growing up in Nazi-era Germany , and his brotherhood of Evil mutants . All the while trying to dissuade a public from hating all of them . This was one of the first superhero films that opted for a more serious tone as opposed to the campy ones that preceded it , and for the most part works , True there were a few things I would have changed ( Glenn Danzig would've made a more kick ass Wolverine , I never warmed up to Halle Barry as Storm ) , but all the other actors are very good ( particularly , Ian McKellen as a spot-on Magneto ) . And the storyline is deep , yet remains still extremely accessible . Followed by a sequel that wasn't as good . Single disc DVD Extras : - 6 Deleted Scenes ; Excerpts from Bryan Singer on " The Charlie Rose Show " ; the 22 minute " The Mutant Watch " special that aired on Fox ; 6 minute X-men featurette ; Hugh Jackman screen-test ; 2 Animatics ; 2 art galleries ; Soundtrack Promo ; 3 TV Spots ; 2 Theatrical Trailers ; a FOX compilation trailer 2 Easter Eggs : Highlight the Rose n the " Trailers And TV Spots " section to see a practical joke scene involving another well-known superhero ; Highlight Wolverine's Dog Tags in the " Art Gallery " section , to see character designs for Beast and The Blob
the superb team of Wong and Morgon do it once again	Devon Sawa as Alex has a premonition that the plain that's taking his class to Paris is going to blow up . His raving on said plain gets him and a few others kicked off . Having missed the flight we see that Alex's premonition was fulfilled . Bu the thing is Death doesn't like to be cheated in this good horror movie . Glen Morgon and James Wong are two gifted guys in my eyes , and barring the mis-step that was " The One " , I've enjoyed their film and TV work immensely . This film is one of the best in the admittedly tiresome ' Teen horror ' sub-genre . If only the sequel wasn't such ass . DVD Extras : Commentary with James Wong , Glen Morgan , James Coblentz , and Jeffrey Reddick ; Second commentary by Devon Sawa , Kerr Smith , Ali Larter , and Chad Donella ; Isolated film score with commentary by Shirley Walker ; cast and crew bios ; 3 deleted scenes ; A look at test screenings featurette ; Premonitions featurette ; Death clock game ; Psychic test ; and Theatrical Trailer DVD-Rom Extras : Script-to-screen , and original website
Ethical quandaries : Quanitity vs quality of life	Harlan Hawkes ( the always recognizable , always enjoyable late great William Hickey ) is an obscenely old man who's so afraid of death that he keeps a highly trained medical team on call around the clock in order to cheat death as long as possible , to the detriment and neglect of all of the other hospital's patients . Over the course of the 44 minutes , you'll be privy to his deepest , darkest secrets . I found this episode to be very enjoyable , thanks , in no small part , to the quality of acting b y Hickey and Bruce Davidson ( the doctor who's most involved in his case ) . All of the others involved give serviceable to kinda poor acting jobs . But those two carry this . Also it doesn't hurt that i find the theme of attempting to cheat death usually always fascinating .
Porn Essentials : Wpink TV	Porn legends Ron Jeremy and Christy Canyon host a sex-based illegal UHF channel in this hardcore porno version of a Kentucky Fried Movie type film . This makes for a pretty good watch and is even frequently humorous . Out of all ten of the sex scenes , I enjoyed all but the rather short lesbian scene with between Dallas Miko and Tamara Longley . This classic is worth watching for any fan of Ron , John Holmes , or especially Christy Canyon . And although this was followed by countless sequels that were of greatly diminishing quality , none of them tarnished the memory of the superb original .
precursor to the show	This hour long comedy special can be found on Season 1 DVD set of the series " Curb your Enthusiasm " . It's pretty much a mockumentary akin to " Spinal Tap " or " A Mighty Wind " . It details the days leading up to Larry David's first comedy special for HBO . It has him dealing various people interspersed with interviews with various celebrities . It's highly amusing and about on par with the first season of the actual show , but as fans of CYE can attest to , the first season of the show isn't exactly the best of the run thus far ( not knocking the special or the show it inspired , just saying a funny show would only grow much funnier )
Second go-around	In 1977 Director Alan Clarke and writer Roy Minto made a film about the then cruel practices of borstals for the BBC1 . It was raw , gritty and rough . Sadly it was promptly shelved . In response to that the creators would remake it as a theatrical production . The story remained pretty much the same Carlin ( Ray Winstone of " Nil by mouth " and " Sexy Beast " ) is a young criminal who after assaulting a police officer gets sent to a borstal ( juvinial prison ) , with two other youth offenders , where they find life inside hell with the authoritarian system brutal and the criminal inmate hierarchy equally , if not more so . They must find a way to survive . Carlin is able to climb the hierarchy , the other two are not really that ' lucky ' . While the original TV film had a gritty rough edged quality . This one remained gritty , but feels much more polished . Winston also seems to have a more-rounded believable presence in this film compared to the earlier version . DVD Extras : Commentary by Ray Winstone ; Interviews with Producer Clive Parsons & Write Roy Minton ; Poset & Stills Gallery ; and Theatrical Trailer
why can't we be friends ?	Tom the cat , Jerry the mouse , and Spike the Dog ( here called Butch , his third name , his second being ' Killer ' ) decide to sign a peace treaty to all love each other . It's weird and a bit unnatural seeing them all buddy buddy like this and their friend's seem to think so too . But by the end thanks to a disagreement over a steak , everything is back to normal and all is how it should be . This short is the second one of three on the new Spotlight DVD to be edited and I have no clue why this one was . This cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
Traci Lords makes a " Splash "	Traci Lords is a mermaid , who apparently not having male mermaids ( how the hell do they procreate the species anyway ) decides to go among the land of the humans for some fun , in this porn takeoff on " Splash " . She spies two people going at it , Jack ( the star of most of the films in the " Talk dirty to Me " series ) and Rikki Blake , and naturally is enthralled . She falls for Jack of course . But her limited vocabulary and no one believing Jack when he says she's a mermaid is the source of " humor " It's not really funny , just annoying . But the sex scenes are good , plus Traci , Ginger Lynn , Amber Lynn , and a pre-enhanced Bunny Bleu are all hot . This is the most sought after of the films in the series by porn fans , because of the rarity of the original picture after Ms . Lords outed herself as underage . My Porn
Takes me back to a bygone era	While out jogging , Annie Morgan is abducted , taken to a dungeon , stripped to her panties while tied up , and sacrificed . Her sister . Larissa , goes to the police to help her find Annie , but only one seems willing to help . Their search takes them to the Mary Magdalen Halfway House for Troubled Girls , where Larrisa goes undercover . She meets the strict disciplinarian Father Fogerty , clashes with Angelina and her gang , runs afoul of Sister Cecelia whom is hiding dark secrets . This is just like a B-movie love song to grind-house films of the ' 70's and ' 80's . You have your women in prison film atmosphere , a return to trashy ' 80's schlockfests , throw in some HP Lovecraft , Andy Warhol find and B-movie mainstay Mary Woronov , rampant nudity , and cheap practical effects . And it's all just in the name of good kegger fun . All it's really missing is a cameo by the one and only Dick Miller . Eye Candy : Athena Demos , Monica Shere , and a handful of extras ; Stephanie Leighs shows T & A Unrated Director's cut DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Kenneth Hall and Producer Ed Polgardy ; 3 deleted scenes ; a 38 & a half minute spoiler laden Making of ; Halfway to Hell ' Music video by Insecto Circus ; and an Uncensored Trailer
the bad part is you have to rent Men in Black 2 to see it	This 5 minute , 41 second computer-animated short can be found on the second disc of the 2-DVD special edition of " Men in Black 2 " . And at such a short running time manages to be much more enjoyable then the main feature . The cartoon deals with an alien janitor named Mupps , and his dreams of singing in the intergalactic bar that he works at . A bar inhabited by a great many recognizable patrons . When he find out the Chubbchubbs are coming , he tries to warn everyone with comical consequences . I won't give away any more except to say this cute short deserved the two awards that it won from the Academy .
Typical story , great action	To help a friend who's heavily in debt to a loan shark , Jeff ( Chow Yun Fat ) joins up with the gay villain , Judge ( Simon Yam ) , for a weapons heist where he'll be double-crossed by who he thought was a friend who joined the gang with him . This wouldn't be an action film if he were to simply let bygones be bygones of course , so he plans a mighty vengeance against all who betrayed him . This is pretty standard revenge movie stuff , it's saved , however , by the great action scenes as well as well as Yun Fat's performance ( excellent as always , well at least before he made the jump to Hollywood who always seem to make amazingly great foreign movie star into lesser than what the can be ) Mei AhDVD Extras : Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Swordsman 2 " & " Treasure Hunt "
Bruce Campbell is always watchable	This 26 minute short by Bruce Campbell on his thought of fandom is a bit insubstantial , a tad fluffy . But it's also funny at moments , while sad at others ( why a gay men would ever confess his love to a heterosexual one is beyond me ) It also provides interviews with some of the more fanatic fans . As well as interviews with Director Ted Ramimi and professional fat jackass Harry Knowles . The former is cool , the latter . . well I hate Knowles so I really didn't care for his segments . Doesn't ever reach the heights of " Trekkies " , but for the most part it's entertaining , primarily because of Bruce Campbell himself .
nice into to a legendary character	Mel Gibson is Max Rockatansky , a local cop whom a decadent savage band of outlaw motorcyclists mark for death after blaming him for the death of their leader , but being the horribly evil man that they are , they target his whole family , as well as his partner . I trust I'm not giving anything away when I say that before the films over Max grows quite Mad indeed . Despite the lack of budget , this film remains a great revenge film , nicely acted by Gibson , and a fine introduction to the Mad Max character , who would return in a sequel that was better still and a third movie that was severely lacking to say the least . My Grade : 2-sided Special Edition DVD Extras : Side A ) Both Widescreen & Fullscreen ; Original Austrailian or English dubbed ; Commentary with Designer Jon Dowding , Cinematographer David Eggby and Special Effects Designers Chris Murray and Tim Ridge ; and Mad Fact Trivia track Side B ) 2 of the absolute worst Documentaries I've seen ( Mel Gibson : The High Octane Birth Of A Superstar , & Mad Max : The Film Phenomenon ) ; International poster gallery ; 4 TV-Spots ; Australian Theatrical Trailer ; and a trailer for " The Terminator : SE DVD "
Schlock . . but enjoyable	Dario Argento mainstay , Daria Nicolodi is a woman who goes back to a house she once lived in , this time with her son , Marco ( David Collins Jr . , who all but steals the film ) , and her second husband in tow . Far from Bava's best ( either father OR son ) , but pretty damn enjoyable . Watch it with friends and a keg of brew to enhance the fun film . A few lines of the film are HIGHLY quotable ! ! My Grade : bloody Hatchets
The Decline of Western Civilization Part 2 . 5 : The Party On Years	Wayne and Gath ( Mike Myers and Dana Carvey respectively ) make the jump from Saturerday Night Live recurring skit to do my third favorite SNL-based film ( the two ahead of it are " Office Space " and " the Blues Brothers ) . In this hilarious film , Wayne and Garth are doing their lowly public access show , when they're discovered by Ben Kane ( Rob Lowe of " the Outsiders " and " St . Elmos Fire ) , who proceeds to get them to sign a contract to take there small show and produce a national version of it . Wayne uses the deal to get his new love interest , Cassandra Wong ( Tia Carrere , who now seemed to fall into oblivion . This is a warning to all aspiring actresses to NEVER say no to nude scenes or fall by the wayside ) and her band to play on his show . But Ben isn't as benevolent as he first seems to be . With non-stop humor , as well as great memorable cameos by Ed O'Neill , Meatloaf , Chris Farley , and the amazingly great Alice Cooper , what's NOT to love ? ? Plus ANY time Brian Doyle-Murray gets to be in a film is greatness . Oh and be sure to stay through the credits . DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Penelope Spheeris ; 23 minutes , 15 seconds of cast and crew interviews ; Clips from " the Brady Bunch " , " Solid Gold Workout " & 1979's " Sundown " ; and Theatrical TrailerDVD Gripes : Led Zeppelin suck ass for screwing up a part of this classic movie , they can shove " Stairway to Heaven " up you know what . It was only 5 chords anyway , you A-holes .
the best Atlantian biker-punk movie EVER made	Some scientists team up with a duo of Vietnam vets to fight make-up wearing biker punks from the lost city of Atlantis which reemerges from under the water due to a sunken Russian submarine's radioactive missiles . Just typing that previous sentence makes my brain hurt and I haven't even gotten to the more nonsensical stuff . Ha . OK , the plot is ridiculous and the film itself doesn't make a lick of sense , but this b-movie is amazingly fun and doesn't let up on the action . Think of it as a cross between Assualt on Precint 13 , and mad max . If you loved those films , are willing to keep and open mind , and can turn your brain off for the duration of the film , you'll like this one a lot as well . Side note : This movie can be found on side A of Disc 2 of the Grindhouse Experience 2 four DVD set , alas it's from an old VHS dub and the picture is far from optimal . Hopefully this unsung b-movie classic will be re-released in a remastered form ( ok , probably not , but one can hope )
I love Sylvester with no Tweety	Porky Pig and Sylvester the Cat find themselves in a spooky house where Sylvester sees dastardly mice planning an execution , needless to say Porky doesn't believe him for much of the short . I liked this cartoon , as Slvester is a favorite character of mine and tweety isn't in this at all , I could never really stand that bird so that's another reason I liked this one . Also call me a tad morbid , but when Sylvester nonviolently tried to commit suicide I found myself laughing . This funny cartoon is on Disk 2 of the " Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 "
Makes the movies look better than they really are	For those who are understandably confused as too whether or not you'll like the movies put out by " Something Weird " , this compilation of trailers for movies from their extensive catalog . Most of the trailers feature nudity and violence . So that's always good . It's about 10 or 11 trailers short of the promised ' over 100 ' that adorns the cover of the DVD , so I have to take the grade down a bit for that un-truth in advertising . A lot of the film trailers are A lot better then the films themselves . But there are a few gems in here as well ( Such as " Basket Case " , " Color me Blood Red " , " Blood Feast , etc . . ) . Hell even the bad film's trailers are watchable in this compilation . I'd put this above " Terror in the Aisles " , but below " Terror on Tape " . If you like the " Dusk to Dawn Drive-in Trash-o-rama Show " compilation volumes , check this one out as well .
the best killer alligator movie ever ( and that's no croc )	Back in 1968 a father flushes his daughter's pet baby alligator down the toilet , which cause a major problem 12 years later as the gator , not only survived in the sewer in the intervening years , but has grown bigger then a croc should . After a series of death , Detective ( Robert Forster ) is tasked with capturing the abnormally large creature . Forster is great in this movie , as he usually is & makes the movie far more enjoyable then it has any right being . Furthermore the alligator itself is pretty cool and could pulverize any of the lame CGI creature features of today . ( for proof merely witness the terrific gator vs . wedding scene ) This classic was followed by a sequel that just didn't have the same magic . Eye Candy : Robin Riker gets topless Region 1 DVD Extras : Audio commentary by Director Lewis Teague and actor Robert Forster ; 17 minute featurette ( Alligator Author ) ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Komodo Vs . Cobra " , " Swamp Thing " , " attack of the Sabertooth "
interesting first and third segments	This 59 minute documentary on the making of " Heat " can be found on the second disc of the 2-DVD special edition of the aforementioned movie . Separated into 3 parts , the first part goes into the origin of the story in the film ( which is simply fascinating ) , the second part , running 20 minutes , goes mostly into the characters of the film and the intricacies ( this part into nearly as interesting as the first , but still watchable ) . The third and final part , running 24 minutes goes into the researching , preparation , and gun training for the film ( better than the second segment , yet still not as good as the first ) . all in all a pretty solid documentary .
sadly neglected	Giorgio ( George Hilton ) has no clue what he's going to do with his bitchy nagging , yet wealthy wife . One night while on a pay phone in a remote section of town , he spies someone trying to dispose of a dead body , not believing his good luck he walks over to tell the murderer ( Antoine Saint-John , still awhile away from his best role in Lucio Fulci's " The Beyond " ) to kill again , namely his wife Norma , or he'll go to the police with what he had just witnessed , throwing in 20 thousand dollars cash to sweeten the deal . The killer is able to hold his end off the bargain but then the car that the now deceased body is in is promptly stolen leading to a frantic chase between the killer and carjackers , while Giorgio deals with the police who think they're dealing with a kidnapping . This being a Luigi Cozzi directed film , I was sincerely surprised how competent and generally good it was . I mean sure , I enjoyed his later " Contamination " , but that wasn't for the competence in that film , as their was none . This film , however , isn't just competent , it's actually a fairly solid cat and mouse chase story . And deserves too be more well known , hell I'd settle for known at all . If you can overlook a few plot holes , it's a solid effort . Eye Candy : Teresa Velázquezas Norma shows her right tit ; Femi Benussi as a Dizzy Blone goes full frontal ; and Cristina Galbó gets topless DVD Extras : Commentary with Director Luigi Cozzi and Author Pete Tombs ; 3 Featurettes ( Road to the Killer , Working with Argento , & the Giallo Genre ) ; Original title sequence ; Stills gallery ; Theatrical Trailer ; and a compilation trailer for other Mondo Macabro released films ( featuring nudity )
loved it	A sea captain ( Gerard Butler , 300 and RockNRolla ) is the single person to survive a slaughter upon his ship by savage pirates aboard a black freighter , this 25 and a half minute animated adaptation of the secondary story in the Watchmen comic mini-series tells the macabre , heart-wrenching tail of his journey back to the Davidstown before the pirates can arrive there to pillage his homeland . While using a somewhat minimalistic animated stylization , the story as well as the visualizations work triumphantly and one can't help but be drawn into both . Not so much a companion piece to " Watchman " ( although the case for that has been made ad nuaseum ) as much as a brilliantly conceived piece that can indeed stand on it's own . DVD Extras : Under the Hood ( a 37 and a half minute faux news interview with Hollis Mason about his book ) a 225 minute featurette on the making-of ; the first chapter of the Watchman motion comic , a first look at " Green Lantern : First Flight " ; a prerequisite ad from Blu-Ray ; and trailers for " Terminator : Salvation " , " Watchmen " & the video game adaptations of Terminator & Watchmen
a nice long documentary	This 55-minute documentary on the making of the movie reality-show spoof " Slashers " can be found on the Fangoria released DVD of the aforementioned movie , In the featurette , the director , cast and crew talk about why it took so long to make ( not as long as his previous effort ) , show auditions , how there used to be more nudity but Sarah Crowder ruined it , how long the shoot was . It also shows some clips of the Director's past films , explains the cinematography , how few cuts are actually in the film and much more . I enjoyed this almost hour long documentary MUCH more then most fluffy 5 to 10 minute featurettes .
file it under " good to the Last . . "	After watching Jason Reitman's previous short " In God we Trust " and loving it , I had high hopes when I sat down to watch " Gulp " . I wasn't disappointed by this fun tale of a guy who has only a handful of minutes to save his salt water goldfish from dying . It moves at a good clip , is humorous enough , and suitably cute . I have high hopes with Jason's first feature length movie in post ( an adaption of another kid of a famous father , William F . Buckley's son , Christopher's satirical book " Thank You For Smoking " ) and provided that Jason keeps the tone of it right then It'll be yet another notch in his belt . The kid has talent to spare . My short
Hilarious in all the wrong ways	Ken Richardson ( Tony Rugnetta of " Requim for a Vampire " which this movie even name drops ) is a writer who buys a typewriter that belonged to a demonic man , whom he gets fascinated with in the extremely low budget film . He soon befriends a mentally challenged young man who's more then willing to help him in his new unholy endeavors . Wow where do I start with this film ? It has plot lines that literally go nowhere and whole characters appear and disappear from the movie without a second thought . It's extremely disjointed and seems to have been cobbled together with no rhyme nor reason . But be that as it may , at points the film is ( unintentualy ) hilarious and provided me with enough drunken amusement to at least warrant a recommendation . The acting is supremely awful and beer or hard liquor is pretty much a prerequisite . As a matter of fact if I were to rate this film purely on it's merit I'd likely give it a but instead i'm rating it on it's hilarity . Eye Candy : Debbie D is fully nude for most of her scenesDVD Extras : Slide show ; Bloopers ; Cast interviews ; auditions ; deleted scenes ( wth more nudity from Debbie ) ; and trailers for this film , as well as " Clean " ( with still more nudity ) , " Dr . Shock's Grindhouse of Horrors " , & " the Innocent "
Ketchum if you can	In the 80's and early 90's , one couldn't do any better for entertaining movie mega-cheese than Jim Wynorski or Fred Olen Ray . Ironically enough after the two collabreated on " Hollywood Scream Queen Hot Tub Party " , neither's subsquesent movies were as entertaining . But I Digress , anyway this Wynorski film is about 5 girls doing inventory and stumbling on a puzzle box that contains the spirit of the guy from " Sorority House Massacre 2 " , but featuring clips from " Slumber Party Massacre " So of course they take turns showering , making insipid comments , running around in lingerie , and getting killed by a maniac . In short , great cheesy goodness . My Mega-Cheese DVD Extras : Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Don't Sleep Alone " , " Concealed Weapons " , and 1997's " Expose " Eye Candy : nearly all of the actresses get nude , take showers , or both
This desperate Housewive steals the show	After rescuing an orphaned young girl in an air-plain crash and a visit from a DEA agent , Dave Robicheaux ( Alec Baldwin ) gets drawn into a rather unfortunate series of events . This film has about as much of a running time as " State of Grace " , but at the same time feels a bit longer , as this movie doesn't flow quite as well as the aforementioned one . It could've definitely stood to have been trimmed up a tad . Yet the acting is adequate enough , there's a great chase sequence and Terri Hatcher has one of the more memorable entrances to say the least . Where I Saw it : Starz Mystery Eye Candy : Terri Hatcher pulls off The full Monty on a balcony
Life on Mars	The trio of the Doctor , Martha , and Captain Jack return to Earth , present day . The Master ( superbly played by " Life on Mars's John Simm ) under the guise of Harold Saxon has just been elected England's new Prime Minister and if the trio think that the dire situation can't get much worse , the Master and his metallic ball Toclafane will prove them how wrong they can be . After the brilliant opening gambit that was " Utopia " , this episode couldn't help , but feel like a step down , however a slight one . It still remained captivating and i still wait with baited breath as to how it will all end . It's just that it felt , to me at least , that their was a tad more levity in this episode somehow . Not that it's all grins ( it isn't ) , just that the mood didn't seem to fit in some way i can't really explain . But I digress , the fact remains that it's still a fairly tight episode .
who wouldn't want to off some shallow , narcissistic teens ?	42 high school students most from a randomly selected class , thanks to a newly passed law , are drugged and sent to an island , where they are outfitted with explosive collars and ordered to participate in a game of killing each other off to be the last person standing . This foreign film was good for the most part . Sort of like an exaggerated " Lord of the Flies " for a new generation . Not that original plot-wise . But enjoyable all the same , especially for exploitation fans . I feel that the Director st rived for a tad more then to be exploitative , but on that point he failed . Also the ending didn't quite jibe for me and there's a little too many plot-holes to make this one an outright classic , but if you just take it for what it is , you'll enjoy the ride . Followed by a horrid sequel that only taints the greatness of the original .
Dude looks like a lady	I'v seen many variations on the Jekyll and Hyde story , one could say too many . But this Hammer film about Dr . Jekyll ( Ralph Bates ) who changes into a woman ( Martin Beswick ) with the help of female estrogen from girls that he's killed , stands as one of the better ones . And as a latter day Hammer film it easily stands out from the pack , although not reaching the splendid heights of films that were produced in Hammer studio's heyday . nonetheless , I found the film to have a suitable mood to it , and well-acted . DVD Extras : Audio commentary by director Roy Ward Baker , actress Martine Beswick , writer / co-producer Brian Clemens , moderated by Hammer Films historian / author Marcus Hearn ; 2 radio spots ; Poster and still gallery ; and Cast & crew bios Eye Candy : Martine Beswick lets loose her twin torpedoes
enchanting	Jerry the mouse , here known as Johann Mouse lives in the house of Viennese composer Johann Strauss . Every time Johann plays his music , the mouse can't help but waltz to the tune . So when the master is away the cat learns to play music . But the servants hear Tom playing and soon enough Tom and the mouse are playing for the Emporer . This short won an Oscar for best cartoon short subject in 1953 and it's easy to see why , because while it's not hilarious , it is amusing , charming , and will bring a smile to your face . This amusing animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set .
not Fields best , but good none the less	After Flower Bell Lee ( Mae West ) is run out of town when she's found out for her hanky-panky with the Masked Bandit , she meets con-man Cuthbert Twillie ( W . C . Fields ) on the train that she's departing the town . during an Indian raid . She marries him when she spies a bag full of money on his person . Fields is great as always , even if this is nowhere near his best movie . The story doesn't really go anywhere , but W . C . and to a slightly lesser extent West make it highly watchable none the less . This movie can be found in the W . C . Fields comedy collection , along with , " The Bank Dick " , " You can't Cheat an Honest Man " , " It's a Gift " , " International House " , and " W . C . Fields : Behind the Laughter " DVD Extras : Theatrical Trailer
Ang Lee pay attention	Dr . David Banner still having recurring dreams of his wife's death via car accident eleven months later is studying the reserve of strength that the average human could conceivably be capable of . Fed up with hearing that people in other similar crash could save their loved ones while he , himself , could not , he chooses to use gamma radiation on himself . However he gets a larger dose then he thought that he was going to get and thus the incredible Hulk was born . This pilot for the subsequent TV series captures the sad melancholy feel that the series later would later do so well . It's everything that Ang Lee film SHOULD have been and more . DVD Extras : Intro by Lou Ferrigno ; Commentary with Director / Writer Ken Johnson ; a featurette on the Ang Lee travesty ; a preview of the Hulk game ( the crappy one , not the glorious " Ultimate Destruction " ) ; An except from the Hulk novelization ; Trailers for " Fast & the Furious : Tricked out Edition " , " Hulk " , the " Monk " pilot , & " Taken "
another great episode	Micki and Ryan , sans Jack , travel out of state into farmland on a lead on a cursed scarecrow . The deadly scythe-wielding demonic antique can make crops bountiful , but only after it's blood-lust has been sedated by offering up three people , via pinning a photograph to the lapel of it's jacket , to slay . Another great episode , the monster is suitably scary and this outing just has a pretty good feel to it , even if it takes nearly forever for either Micki or Ryan to put the obvious together . The scarecrow has a big picture of the victim on his jacket . It's not that hard to figure out who his victim will be . Also for the first time Ryan's little brother Jimmy is mentioned , this will come into play later in the series .
even Fiona Apple never Shadox boxxed like this	A cursed pair of boxing gloves that gives the owner of them abnormal strength while a shadow of the boxer pummels another victim to death is the antique that Ryan , Micki & Jack are after this week . Tommy Dunn ( David Ferry of Boondock Saints ) is the sad sack pugilist who can't win a fight to save his life until he comes into possession of the aforementioned gloves . It's up to the trio to get the accursed things back . This is the first really memorable episode of the series and I enjoyed it immensely . A bad guy you love to hate , a nice suitably evil antique , and a great ending makes this on a winner by K . O . Even the lip service given to Micki's not often talked about ( and better off that way ) fiancé during the first few minutes of the episode doesn't put a crimp on my overall enjoyment of it .
The Diceman cometh	Andrew Dice Clay , now THERE was a man who was ahead of his time , If he came a decade or two later he would have been heralded as the acting equivalent of say , Eminem . . You know except with talent . OOOOH ! Hey is this thing on ? ? Anyways this movie is greatness & one of my " guilty pleasures " . So many quotable lines . So many great cameos . I heard Roger Ebert HATED this movie . . yeah Ebert , I F # % ^ ed him OOOOH ! ! Seriously go see this movie . . . NOW , snapperhead . DVD Extras : featurette ; Billy Idol music video ; theatrical trailer
God forbid if the bad guys are not upper class straight white males	Arnold Schwarzenegger is Gordy Brewer , a fireman , whom after his wife and son are killed in a terrorist attack , seeks to go after the Columbian revolutionary known simply as " The Wolf " who's guilty of the attack . Most liberals loathe this film , which is usually cause for me to love it , but they have no good reason to despise this movie , as it was simply a solid action film , no more no less . Probably more cathartic for people still reeling from due to the timing of it's release , but God forbid a movie shows Americans as good guys , the blame America first crowd can't have that , can they ? The exact same people bitching about this film were the ones who had beef against " Rules of Engagement " , " Behind Enemy Lines " , " The Siege " and " Red Dawn " ( all great films in their own right ) . So get over yourselves , it's A MOVIE . A good one at that . DVD Extras : Commentary with director Andrew Davis ; " Behind The Scenes " featurette ; " The Hero In A New Era " retrospective ; 8 minutes of Deleted scenes ; Cast and crew filmographies ; and Theatrical trailer
Last House rip-off can stand on it's own feet slight spoilers	Lisa and Margeret ( Laura D'Angelo and Irene Miracle , respectively ) are two college students on their way home , via train , for Christmas . But they didn't plan to run into two psychopaths and the woman who fell in love with them after being raped . This is a blatant rip-off of " Last House on the Left " , but it's played very straight and can stand on it's own . Sheer exploitation fans might be a bit let down as the film has a long suspenseful build-up before getting to the meat & potatoes , but just stick with it . Of course it's far from a perfect film , yet it does have a certain air about it & is worth a watch . Irene Miracle would later go on to two great movies : Dario Argento's " Inferno and Charles Band's " Puppet Master " , and yes before some of you faint dead away , that's the LAST time I'll use Argento and Band in the same sentence , i promise . Furthermore , I know I'm sounding like a broken record , vis a vie , Blue Underground , but once again they have done an immaculate job on the transfer . Eye Candy : Irene Miracle as Margeret runs around bottomless while trying to get away , showing much bum as well as hairpieBlue Underground DVD Extras : Interview with Director Aldo Lado ; 2 radio spots ; poster & stills gallery ; and 2 theatrical trailers ( USA and international )
Poor Major Kincaid , but great forgotten gem	This pornographic parody of MASH is both sexy and funny . Miles above the earlier porn spoof " Mash'd " , this film not only benefits from having Jessie St . James in it of course , as she's utterly stunning , but also from some genuinely good acting and a script that doesn't just give lip service to what it's spoofing , but captures the essence of it quite well . St . James as Nurse Hot Hips Henderson is delightful and funny ( the scene with her and her toy ' Mr . Penis ' being an obvious standout ) It's a sincere shame that Tony Kendrick didn't write or direct any other movies after this one as it's plain to see that he had talent . So yea , to sum up , this forgotten little gem of a film comes with my highest accolades .
Better than the Ruenion special	MUCH more interesting than 2003's Married With Children Reunion show . This E ! True Hollywood Story tells pretty much everything you would ever want to know about Married with Children . The trials , tribulations , heartbreaks , controversies , and triumphs are all recounted in this documentary . Featuring interviews with pretty much every cast and major crew member , as well as some guest stars , a webmaster for a Bundy's web site , and the self-righteous holier-tan-thou bitch who spearheaded a boycott . Very informative and entertaining . If every episode of True Hollywood Story was this good , they'd still be making new ones . My Grade :
Is you is or is you ain't ?	Spike the dog ( here called Killer , in later cartoons he'd be called Butch ) is tied up by Tom the cat so he can serenade the lady he has his eye on with the song " Is you is or is you ain't my baby " . He wakes up Jerry the mouse , who tortures him for his act of love by throwing stuff at him . This prompts Tom to grow aggravated and the game of cat and mouse is on . Jerry unties Butch ( Killer ) to let the dog get into the action . This is a great Tom and Jerry cartoon and Tom's singing is classic stuff . This hilarious cartoon short can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
Melissa Moore's " lost " film	A womanizing super samurai cop and his black side-kick go after the Yakuza . This film is bad . . REALLY bad , it's also pretty damn funny . Matt Hannon stars as the samurai cop who looks more like a gay poolboy in the best movie of his long varied career of one film . Robert Z'dar ( Maniac Cop ) is the right-hand man of the bad guy . Definately a guilty pleasure movie with it's jaw-droppingly insanely stupid dialog , the horrible " action " , the unneeded flamingly gay waiter , and well you just have to see it for yourself . My bad-movie grade : AMedia Blaster Dvd Extras : Joe Bob Brigg's intro and commentary ! ! ! ( which is GREAT ) ; Robert Z'Dar Interview ; Stills gallery ; Trailers for " Sex Bomb " ( which is awful ) , " Strike Me Deadly " , " Blood Shack " , and " Mission Kill Fast " Eye Candy : ALL the main actoresses get topless and one gets fully nude
The films that SHOULD have won Oscar for Best Picture : 1987	In 1750 Spain , Father Gabriel ( Jeremy Irons ) takes the place of a previous missionary whom was killed . He along with the help of reformed killer / slaver Mendoza ( Robert DeNiro ) and others hope to bring Christianity into the hearts of the natives of the land . He is successful , but when Portugal acquires the colony the question of if the missions are still under the protection of the Chuch arises . This is a powerful movie , one that I appreciated much more then Roland Joffe's previously directed " Killing Fields " which felt sanctimonious and one-sided . This film , on the other hand , has breath-taking cinematography and well-developed characters . And while the film does falter in places ( somewhat condescending and near the end over-preachy ) the good far outweighs the bad . The Academy Awards had made yet another mis-step giving the Best Picture Oscar to " Platton " rather than this film . DVD Extras : Disk 1 ) Commentary by Roland Joffe ; Theatrical Trailer ; select Cast and crew filmographies ; and list of Awards Disk 2 ) " Omnibus " ( a great documentary on the movie )
Martin hasn't been this great in ages	Based on Steve Martin's short book ( anything under 200 pages is short in my eyes ) , ' Shopgirl " concerns Mirabelle ( Claire Danes ) , a lonely debt-ridden Saks Fifth Avenue salesgirl who finds herself in a love-triangle between terminally clueless but well-meaning , Jeremy ( " Rushmore " ' s Jason Schwartzman ) and Ray ( Steve Martin ) , a rich , narcissistic businessman . The word Quirky is a oft used one when talking of the cinema , but that word is very apt here . I don't mean it in a derogatory way in the least , as I found the film to be very good and the best thing that Martin has done in ages . , as well as being the best part that Claire Danes has had in . . . well ever . Not to give Jason the short shift as he was good as well . The whole film was done with such refreshingly honestly and candidness , I couldn't help but admire it . An amazingly good movie any way you slice it , and highly recommended . Eye Candy : Claire Danes shows her great derrière DVD Extras : Audio Commentary by Director Anand Tucker ; A 21 minute Making-of ; 2 Deleted scenes ; Trailers for " Pirates of the Caribbean 2 " , " Annapolis " , : Eight Below " , " Shadows in the sun " / " Everything you Want ' & " Casanova " ; TV Trailer for Season 1 of " Grey's Anatomy " ; a TV on DVD compilation spot ; and a " Gilmore Girls " Promo .
when does a dream become a night mare	Andrew Norris ( Perry King ) is a new teacher from Nebreska who has a run-in with the local toughs when he refuses to just look the other way like fellow teacher , Terry ( Roddy McDowell ) warns him to do . When the gang target his students ( including a young Micheal J . Fox ) as well as his pregnant wife , he has to take matters into his own hands . This b-movie from the ' 80's is amazingly great from the highly catchy Alice Cooper sung ' I Am the Future ' to the many memorable quotes to the over the top ending . This is just a great piece of cinema and an ' 80's classic . Timothy Van Patton is a great foil as the leader of the gang . I VERY eagerly await the special edition DVD that's coming at the end of the summer . Eye Candy : Helena Quinton shows EVERYthing
Wile E . falls down and goes boom MULTIPLE times	We come to the twelfth pairing of Wile E . Coyote and the Road Runner ( and the last on the Golden Collect Volume 2 sadly ) . And the overt familiarity doesn't detract at all with the humor . It's like watching the Stooges you KNOW all three will have some sort of hideous pain inflicted upon them . as always I found it highly enjoyable , but perhaps I'm a bit biased as Wile E . Coyote is one of my absolute favorite cartoon personalities of all time . This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . This cartoon also has an optional music only track .
gut-splitting	Leatherface is all set to kill a couple in the woods , but things don't go as planned in this hilarious short . Kevin Van Hentenryck of " Basket Case " and " Brain Damage " fame gives a great performance as Leatherface . Hopefully it won't be twelve more years before he graces the screen with his presence again . J . R . Havlan and Matt Unger know about the funny very much . Give these guys a bigger budget . Plus I wouldn't mind seeing much more of Genevieve Hannon in the future , if you know what I mean , and I think you do . heh heh heh . So go see this film if you get a chance . If you're a horror fan you'll love it . My Short
pretty god doc	This documentary on the making of " The Janitor " can be found on the DVD of the fore-mentioned movie . It runs around an hour and deals with the trials and tribulations of making a low budget horror-comedy . Featuring audition footage , interviews with the cast and crew , dealing with Lloyd Kaufman , shooting the gang bang scene ( no Asians , no Indians , no Persians ) , the special effects , post-production , and showing the completed film . I found this documentary to be at turns informative , humorous , and overall highly watchable with none of the fake BS that you find in documentaries of bigger budgeted movies and all the better for it .
a modern masterpiece	A triad mole ( Andy Lau ) in who has infiltrated the police department has to find a undercover cop ( Tony Leung ) who's deep in the triad and vice versa in this superb film from Wai Keung Lau and Siu Fai Mak . Of course now that the American re-make is out , it's impossible not to compare the two . But I feel that they each can pretty much stand on their own merits . The acting's great in both . While the remake clearly wins in the violence and glossy shine departments , it also leaves out a lot of the emotional layers and complexities of this one . I love both movies equally and am hard pressed to pick one over the other . However I WILL say that this original has the better ending absolutely . Followed by a prequel and sequel , neither of which I've seen as of yet , but I have part 2 geared up in the DVD player as I write this .
satisfy your Jones for breath-taking action	Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) is back for the first time in this prequel to the original blockbuster " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . None of the magic has been diminished in the least , as Indiana's 1935 adventures take him from gangster trouble in Hong Kong , to freeing enslaved children in India . All with his new love interest , Willie ( Kate Capshaw ) and orphaned kid sidekick , Short Round along for the ride . This second movie of the trilogy is every bit as great and thrilling as the first and when " The Last Crusade " came along half a decade late , they would form to make quite possibly the greatest trilogy EVER . And trust my , folks , I'm not one prone to mindless hyperbole . DVD-Rom content : an exclusive web link to get picture galleries , a PC game demo , and Raiders Animatic : Opening the Ark
the world is introduced to the small screen Dirty Harry equivalent	We're first introduced to Detective Rick Hunter ( Fred Dryer ) driving a piece of crap car and without a partner . He figures out that a robbery of the bank he's in is about to go down . He subdues one , but two get away in a car . Hunter of course captures him after a lengthy car chase . Back at the station house he's chastised by his new superior who tries to team him up with an ass , but Hunter picks Detective McCall ( Stepfanie Kramer ) , the only other cop who's even a bit like Hunter himself . Together they try to solve the crime of a nut carving up middle aged blond haired blue eyed girls . , not knowing the culprit might be a bit more close to him then either suspect . This pilot episode of the TV series got me hooked when I was a kid . Only four shows were beyond cool in my eyes while in the ' 80's Hunter , the a-team , magnum PI , and Miami vice . And while they all had pretty bad seasons as time were on , Hunter ( when it started ) was among the best of them . This pilot movie rocked .
A classic comedy for GUYS	John and Russell ( Bill Murray and Harold Ramis , respectively ) join the Army after John , dissatisfied which how his life is going , talks Russell into it . They have to survive boot camp , as well as , along with their love interests and Sgt . Hulka ( Warren Oates ) , save the rest of their Platoon when they're trapped behind enemy lines . This is the best comedy revolving around the Army ever and has so very many memorable scenes and quotable lines that it's unreal . All the actors are great in the parts ( including a superb Warren Oates , hilarious Bill Murray , Harold Ramis , John Candy & John Larroquette ) The Extended edition , unlike SOME so-called ' special editions ' actually adds substance to an already classic film . It's almost impossible for any red-blooded American male NOT to love this film . DVD Extras : Both the 106 minute Theatrical cut & 122 minute Extended edition ; Commentary by director Ivan Reitman and co-writer / producer Dan Goldberg : " Stars and Stripes " 2-part documentary ; 6 deleted scenes Theatrical Trailer ; a complication trailer for ' 80's hits ' ; and Trailers for " D . E . B . S . " and " Hitch " Eye Candy : Roberta Leighton , and Sue Bowser get topless ; numerous woman are topless as well as full frontal in the shower ; numerous topless girls in the bar with the mud wrestling ; in the Extended edition P . J . Soles bares her breasts in a lengthy scene
Brilliant first episode	After speaking for quite some time among various phone conversations , Gavin and Stacey decide to finally meet in the flesh , each bringing the best mates , Smithy & Nessa respectively , along for their initial meeting . The chemistry between Gavin & Stacy seems to be spot on . Despite Nessa & Smithy ( Series Co-creators James Corden and Ruth Jones ) providing the quasi-raunchy jokes ( which frankly are hilarious in their own right ) , the series seems to have created a sweet , often humorous aura that I found quite intoxicating . Brilliant first episode . One that definitely won me over .
can't beat Heat	Al Pacino and Robert Deniro are two sides of the same coin as cop and robber in this brilliant character action drama . Deniro is a master thief who s looking to put together one last huge score with his crew , while Pacino , a masterful detective is hot on his trail with his own crew attempting to take them down . Each is extremely dedicated to their respective jobs Each's life pretty much mirrors that of the other . Ying and Yang . Good and evil . With shades of gray in between . Every character in this film is given a back story and the plot is both fairly simple and intricate in it's fine details . Even at almost 3 hours , one never feels that the movie is ever dragging , because it doesn't . And yeah , you more then likely know how it's going to end before even sitting down to watch it , but it's not really about that . It's much more the journey that the destination . Highly recommended 2-disc special edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by Director Michael Mann ; and 3 Theatrical Trailers Disc 2 ) " The Making Of Heat " 3-part documentary ; 2 featurettes ( Pacino And De Niro : The Conversation , & Return To The Scene Of The Crime ) ; and 11 Deleted Scenes
quench your Jones for excitement	Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) has to find the Ark of the Convenant for the US government , but it will be far from easy as he'll have to deal with his old nemesis , Rene Belloq , Nazi's who want the Ark for themselves , and snakes . It's a toss up on what he detests more . This was the film that spawned one of the best trilogies EVER . Most fall apart by the third movie ( : Godfather , Back to the Future , Star Wars ALL have weak links ) , not so here , ALL the Indiana Jones films are pure gold . And bring back very fond childhood memories . THIS is a action-packed blockbuster like it should be done . Thrilling , exciting , humorous , and insanely great escapism . Accept no substitutes , because Indiana Jones is one of a kind . DVD-Rom content : an exclusive web link to get picture galleries , a PC game demo , and Raiders Animatic : Opening the Ark
How very Ood	Rose and the good Doctor find themselves in a space station that is on a planet that's quite impossibly hovering in orbit right below a black hole . The crew of the station is just as perplexed at that as the two new inhabitants are . Suitably spooky in it's atmosphere and gets better as the Doctor and Rose find themselves stranded due to circumstances out of their control and speaking through the submissive alien race of the Ood , something quite dark is coming from below the crust of the planet . Not haven seen the second part of this two-parter I can't vouch that the end is as strong yet . But it does make for one hell of a beginning .
Enter Jeff the Drunk ( & , 2002 )	In this episode ( and the following one ) , the first appearance of Jeff the Drunk , Jeff comes in to play ' Butt Billionere ' with William Shatner in hopes of winning some ' playtime ' with noted porn-star Tabitha Stevens . The perpetually inebreiated man wastes no time in making Shatner uncomfortable , constantly harassing him that " you BETTER get these questions right , Bill " . It's hilarious seeing Shatner's reaction & hearing Artie's quips & impersonations of Jeff . Tabitha is understandable relunctant , but proves that she's a trooper for Howard , later we see the fateful ' date ' ( well the start and end of it anyway ) We only hear the rest ( thankfully , as Jeff is far from easy on the eyes ) This is another great episode . Eye Candy : Tabitha shows some T & A ( uncensored when on Howard TV )
puss in booties	An annoying prepubescent white girl dresses Tom the cat up as a baby , a bonnet , little booties , a diaper , the whole nine yards . Tom only puts up with it to get the delicious milk and is having a good time until Jerry the mouse sees him which enrages him while the mouse mocks him . Later Jerry gets Tom's feline friends over and embarrass's him further . I hear some people say this one is too sadistic . Hello . . this is a Tom and Jerry cartoon people . If you think it's too sadistic go watch the ultra-liberal crap-fest that is " Captain Planet " This hilarious cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry " .
Comedy great	A madcap star studded romp of a film , that while a tad on the long side ( at more then 2 and a half hours ) is still highly enjoyable . Some parts do drag , but on a hit or miss ratio , it's still much more hit than miss . A well done family comedy . It's a veritable Who's who of comic greats ! ! On a parting note , it's so tragic that one generation gets this brilliant flick and my generation gets " Rat Race " . There's no justice in the world . DVD extras : Documentary : " Something a Little Less Serious " ; Extended scenes
Tom trying to pitch woo	Tom the Cat is having fun with Jerry the mouse in the old West lassoing him up . Until a girl cat comes along and sets Tom's heart on fire . He waists no time in trying to woo her . Of course Jerry doesn't want Tom happy . So he , along with some help from a bull , try to put the kibosh on Tom's chance at love . The hit to miss joke ratio in this one is greatly in favor of the hits . And it's very enjoyable throughout . Of course I'm biased as i pretty much love anything by the cat & mouse duo . This hilarious classic cartoon can be found on disc two of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry " My grade :
the wheel of Benjy	Porn stars Gina Lynn and Nadia Styles come into the studio to play " Wheel of Benjy " , a game where Stern staffer Benjy Bronk comes in in his underwear and lays on the floor in the middle of a circle that has a list of things the porn stars have to do if the pointer on his head lands on whichever after they spin him . Lynn gets off FAR easier then Styles does I won't ruin the surprise . But it's a pretty funny episode . Definitely one of the better E ! - era shows . Eye Candy : Gina gets fully nude , while Nadia has to take off her panties ( all gloriously uncensored when it was on " Howard On Demand )
Paul Thomas's fairy-tale story	Paul Thomas's porn twist on the fairy tale of " Cinderella " . In part one of two parts , Savannah lives at the mercy of her wicked step-mother and step-sisters after her dad dies . The ball is coming up and a Lord of the Prince , after an orgy with the step-sisters sees Sinderella washing windows , he wants her to come as well . The sisters rip up the invitation , but thanks to her fairy godmother she goes . Who is the perfect fit for the Prince ? You'll have to wait for part 2 for that . For fans of both P . J . Sparxx and / or the late Savannah ( especially the latter , in a great masturbation scene as well as getting a facial ) , you'll find a lot to enjoy in this one . And as porn aficionados are already aware of Paul Thomas as a director very rarely fails to impress . My Porn
Porn Essentials : the Jade Pussycat	The Jade Pussycat , a cat figurine with mysterious powers and worth half a million dollars , has been stolen . But have no fear as Johnny Wadd ( the legendary John Holmes ) is on the case and he's willing to go to any lengths find Pual , his friend's brother , and get the pussycat get back ( and with Holmes that a LOT of length ) . But the bad guys are after the figurine as well after realizing the one they have is a counterfeit . Written and directed by porn revolutionary , Bob Chinn , this film takes you back to a day when you had a compelling story with your hot sex . Word of warning tho , there IS a rape scene , so beware of that . Also be aware that it ends on somewhat of a cliffhanger , so it's advised that you watch " the China Cat " soon after you finish this film .
Anime 101	31 years after World War 3 , two friends in a violent bike gang find themselves on two sides , albeit unwillingly , of opposing viewpoints in this epic anime of government conspiracy and genetic tampering . It's a rich , complex story if one chooses to watch it with an open mind . And while not without it's fair share of flaws , it's an extremely rewarding experience and ranks among the very best that you'll likely find in the Anime genre . It's extremely fast-paced , viciously violent , very bloody , and has a interesting message to boot . What's not to like ? 2-disc special edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) English translation of graffiti option ( which is cool and all , but not really needed ) Disc 2 ) A 48 minute Making of ; Akira sound clip ; Interview with director Katsuhiro Otomo ; Interviews with restoration staff ; Stills gallery ; and Teaser & Theatrical trailers
the best real man's werewolf film of the 2000's thus far	A squad of 6 British soldiers on a training mission against SOS ( Special Operations Squad ) in the Scottish wilderness . They later find a very wounded SOS captain and the bloody remains of the rest of his team . Seems there are more deadly things in the woods then the soldiers can even imagine . They encounter zoologist Megan whom knows what they're up against and hole up in an abandoned house . Now with wounded soldiers to contend with as well as were wolfs circling in for the kill , they're in for the fight of their lives . This low-budget action-horror film is surprisingly good , keeps the tension and suspense coming throughout and the best part , no boring bits makes this the best REAL MEN's werewolf film of this decade thus far . DVD Extras : Both Widescreen & fullscreen versions ; Commentary by Producers David Allen and Brian O'Toole ; a 19 & a half minute Making Of ; and 2 Theatrical trailers ( the Region 2 UK DVD is much better though )
Should have at least got a nomination for Best Picture	Billy Bob Thorton ( who also wrote and direct ) plays Karl Childers , a mentally slow retard who recently gets out of the nut-house after living most his life there , on account of murdering his cheating mother and her lover . On the outside he befriends a boy and his single mother and winds up living in their garage despite the grievances of the mother's drunk hateful boyfriend . The late John Ritter is also on hand as a friend of the family who's kinda funny . Not funny ha-ha , funny queer . The movie moves along slower than Karl himself . But the brilliance of this film isn't the destination , which is predictable , if inevitable . But rather to marvel at the superb acting that is on display throughout . This director's Cut is among the better ones , adding in footage that actually makes the film that much more powerful . Miramax Collector's Edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by Billy Bob Thornton ; and Trailers for " Bride and Prejudice " , " Dear Frankie " , and a compilation trailer of various Miramax films . Disc 2 ) " Mr . Thornton Goes To Hollywood " documentary ; " Bravo Profiles : Billy Bob Thornton " ; A 65 minute Roundtable Discussion with Billy Bob Thornton , Dwight Yoakam , Mickey Jones , and producer David Bushell ; " A Conversation with Billy Bob Thornton and Robert Duvall " ; " A Conversation with Robert Duvall " ; " A Conversation with Billy Bob Thornton and composer Daniel Lanois " ; " The Return of Karl " short ; Behind the scenes footage ; deleted scene , with introduction by Billy Bob Thornton ; and 3 Sling Blade newspaper reviews
A legend is born	Melvin Junko , is a weak nerd and a janitor at a local gym so this makes the jocks hate him and taunt him whenever they can . One day a practical joke goes to far and he ends jumping out the window into a barrel of nuclear waste , transforming poor weakling Melvin into a creature of superhuman size and strength . He's rechristened as the Toxic Avenger and goes on to battle the evildoers of Tromaville while falling in love with a blind girl that he saved from being raped . This low low budget movie single handedly put Troma and Llloyd Kaufman on the map around the world with it's blend of ultra-violence and cheap humor . One of my favorite films , it makes a great watch for keg parties . One of those films where people can practically quite the whole thing by heart . Eye Candy : Jennifer Prichard and Cindy Manion go topless . There's also rampant nudity in the DVD extras Director's Cut DVD Extras : Intro , farewell and Commentary by director Lloyd Kaufman ; 7 Deleted scenes ; the same damn Radiation March that's on EVERY Troma DVD ; " Toxic Crusaders " clip ; " Toxie 15 Years Later " mockumentary ; " The Death of Toxie " Tromaville Café TV sketch ; Troma Intelligence Test ; Troma Studio Building Tour ; Mopboy secrets featurettes w / commentary by Mark Torgl ; Aroma Du Troma clip montage ; Photo gallery ; Theatrical trailer ; and Bonus trailers for : " Sgt . Kabukiman N . Y . P . D . " , " Class of Nuke ' Em High " , " Tromeo & Juliet " , " The Toxic Avenger Part II " , " Def by Temptation " , " Surf Nazis Must Die " , & " Bloodsucking Freaks "
the VERY few times that the Academy Awards gave the Oscar to the RIGHT film : 1985	An old embittered feeble Salieri ( the great F . Murray Abraham ) confine to an insane asylum tells a priest how Mozart ( Tom Hulce ) was a constant boon to his career always making him look far lesser in the greatness of Amadeus . Even with the film at 3 hours ( the producer's cut ) , this film constantly kept my attention and I was hardly bored . The story while taking some liberties is still beautiful to behold . VERY well acted all around . With Abraham being the best ironically . The movie's soundtrack is very good , naturally . And this was one of the VERY few times that the Academy Awards got it right . Milos Forman and Peter Shaffer have created a near-masterpiece for the generations . DVD Extras : Disk 1 ) Commentary ; Cast and crew bios ; Awards list Disk 2 ) hour long Making-of documentary ; and Theatrical TrailerEye Candy : Elizabeth Berridge bares her big ' uns
A sadly forgotten B-movie classic	This is without a doubt director Roberta Findlay crowning achievement and one of the true essential of 1980's ' urban warfare ' movies . This film is proudly a B-movie , wearing it's bloody blackened heart on it's gore drenched sleeve . And I truly wouldn't have it any other way . Featuring mostly unknowns although some would later find success in varying degrees , Karen Russell ( from " Vice Academy " and " Hell High " ) , Dan Snow ( Yup , old Ciger Face himself from the Toxic Avenger movies ) and Paul Calderon , who would go on to do bit parts in many great movies . This is a nasty one , broom handles where they have NO right being , sadistic violence , and general depravity combine to make a potent concoction . I loved every second of it . And the theme song by ' The Kool Crew ' is great . Eye Candy : Corinne Château and Karen Russell get topless DVD Extras : Commentary by Roberta Findlay ; Interview with Findlay ; Photo gallery ; radio spot ; Original Trailer ; and Trailers for " Blood Sisters " ( with nudity ) , " Blood Feast 2 " , " Duck the Carbine high massacre " , and " New Barbarians "
great feature length episode	David Banner ( the late great Bill Bixby ) hopes that Dr . Caroline Fields , a renowned psychiatrist and hypnotherapist can help him with his problem of turning into the Hulk in this feature length episode of " The Incredible Hulk " Carol is reluctant to hep at first , but after he helps her with her problem she does all she can to help with his , given the TV series went long after this , you know the outcome . However that doesn't mean it's not worth watching , as it is VERY much so . It's one of the standout episodes of an already superb show . You can find this episode as an extra on the DVD of the pilot episode . Why the show itself isn't being collected in Season sets yet only god knows why .
A very RARE documentary in that it does the film it's based on justice	A brilliant story of how all the Czech extras were standing up and saluting the American flag while singing our National Anthem with members of the Secret Police were there starts this enthralling documentary of the great film " Amadeus " off to an interesting start . How Milos at first hated Opera , how he and the screenwriter went about the very tough task of adapting the play , going about finding the right actors , and F . Murray Abraham being interviewed are also very interesting . , It features interviews with most of the other cast and select crew as well . It also contains auditions , This was a very interesting documentary for me .
A horror movie staple / Nearly forgotten gem	Students of a sorority house start receiving a series of increasingly frightening prank phone calls , escalating into a series of ghastly murder in this effectively creepy tightly-plotted little movie . All of the major actors in it feel real and fleshed out , barring an underused James Edmond as Clair's father . Perhaps it hasn't aged as well as everyone would have hoped , ( the abortion sub-plot , really doesn't have anything to do with anything , and some of the dialog comes off as hokey now ) but with this and " A Christmas Story " Bob Clark has made two of the staples of holiday viewing , albeit in opposite ends of the spectrum . It's too bad that he hasn't done anything good since 1983 .
Porn Essentials : Jane Bond Meets Octopussy	Before Amber Lynn as Jane Bond took on the sexual shenanigans of Golden Rod , she met up with the sexy Asian villianess Octopussy ( hey they didn't even have to change the original Ian Fleming name for this one ) . Octo , or Miss P to her fiends , I would guess ) is played delightfully by Kristara Barrington and plans to use a sex ray to take over the world . As much as I adored the sequel to this , I must admit , this film is even better . A very fun story , some amazingly hot sex ( Amber Lynn is always hot ) , a catchy theme song , and the fact that the movie never wears out it's welcome make this a Bonerfied lost classic . The only fault I can conceivably think that it has , was that it had Mauvis in it , I find her pretty UN-sexy to say the least , but her participation is kept at a minimum so don't let that dissuade you from this hidden treasure of a film .
first great game for the 360 ( deffinately not the last )	This was one of the first xbox 360 games that I bought , and along with Project Gotham Racing 3 and the recently released DOA 4 are proof that the 360 is indeed a next-generation system . The game look pretty good on a regular TV set , but on a HD capable TV with surround sound the superb game truly comes to life with amazing graphics and intense sounds . The bullets whizzing by your head , the fights your fellow soldiers are engaging in , and all the other sounds truly immerse you deeply in the game . Of course any true hardcore game wouldn't try the game in anything less than the Veteran setting , which is particularly unforgiving ( especially the later American levels ) All in all this is a simply great game and is one of the few MUST OWN ones if you managed to get your hands on a 360 . It rivals any but the most maxed out computers currently out . ( note : this review was written at the time of the game's release , but since the page on it didn't exist on IMDb then , I'm posting it now )
Vaginal chest-slits	Max Renn ( James Woods ) is a cable operator looking for the next big thing when he stumbles across a pirated feed consisting of sadomastic snuff , which sends him on a quest to track down whomever made this and where the pirated feed is originating from . There are no " good guys " to be found . There are only manipulators , users , and poor brainless chumps . This is David Cronenberg at his best . The film is hopelessly nihilistic , devastatingly bleak , and endlessly intriguing and watchable . This is the type of cinema that endless tomes can be wrote about , dissecting every aspect of it hoping to find the meaning while pouring over it's symbolism and praising it's greatness . This is the type of film that one can watch over again and pick up on new things with each subsequent viewing . This is James Woods in the top echelon of his game . This is a film once seen you will never forget . This IS Videodrome . Long Live the New Flesh . Eye Candy : Deborah Harry bares her breasts ; 5 pair of breasts bared by unknown girlsCriterion Collection 2-disc DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by director / writer David Cronenberg , and director of photography Mark Irwin ; Second commentary by actor James Woods , and actress Deborah Harry ; Cronenberg's short film " Camera " DISC 2 ) 27 and a half minute " Forging the New Flesh " documentary ; Rick Baker and Michael Lennick audio interview ; Bootleg Video : the complete and unedited faux Japanese show " Samurai Dreams " within the film with optional commentary by David Cronenberg , or 2nd commentary by Mark Irwin and Michael Lennick ; uninterrupted Videodrome transmissions with optional commentary by Mark Irwin and Michael Lennick ; Helmet-Cam ; A round table discussion from 1982 between filmmakers David Cronenberg , John Carpenter , John Landis , and Mick Garris ; Making of ; posters and lobby cards ; Stills Galleries ; and 3 theatrical trailersAlso : 40 page booklet featuring essays by film critic Carrie Rickey , Videodrome expert Tim Lucas and novelist Gary Indiana . And the case itself is so cool in design resembling a bootleg tape .
Bronson best role	The original & arguably the best of all vigilante films ! ! Charles Bronson is a knee jerk lib , until a trio of scumbags ( including a young Jeff Goldblum ) rape his daughter and murder his wife , then he becomes a vigilante . I have a confession to make , I never saw any of the Death Wish movies before . I've been meaning to for a while now , but nope , never got around to it till today . With that out of the way . Death Wish 1 is a pretty good flick . Well it starts off good at least & was enjoyable through most of it , but the ending was a tad too silly . My Grade : A-Where i saw it : 5 Star Max
Yosemite Sam ain't no Mahatma Gandhi	Bugs Bunny gets in a good old-fashion Western showdown with the ornery Yosemita Sam , the roughest toughest he-man stuffest hombre that's ever crossed the Rio Grande - and I don't mean Mahatma Gandhi ( that last part is still censored on the DVD version sadly ) . This town isn't big enough for the both of them naturally and comic hijinks ensue as they try to outwit each other . This is just a classic Bugs / Sam outing any way you slice it and I enjoyed it immensely . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Greg Ford writer of latter day Tunes ( late 1980's-early ' 90's ) and Friz Freleng via vintage recordings .
one of the best movies of it's kind that you'll ever see	This soft-core romp is without a doubt one of the best movies of its kind that I've seen in a good long while . The film's about 3 girlfriends ( who have a lesbian thing going on between them , that is Hot with a capital H ) , Amanda , Taimie and Ashley ( Amanda Auclair , Taimie Hanumm , and Ashley Long ) , whom bored with merely being housewives , decide to become call girls ( hence the name of the movie ) . But really the plot , be what it may , takes backseat to the soft-core shenanigans . And this is this glorious films BOth bread AND butter . They were among the best scenes I've seen on late-night Cinemax in ages . Expertly filmed and lighted with VERY beautiful women . I had to stop the movie multiple times to expel my sheer pleasure with seeing this film . Kudos to all involved , not the least being Director Micheal Whiteacre , MAD props to you , my friend . And to top it all off the movie is actually pretty damn funny at times . So stop reading this and see this movie . . . . NOW ! ! !
old allies , older enemies	Starting with Rose's heart-breaking monologue and ending in quite possibly the best cliffhanger for a Doctor Who two-parter in recent memory , this episode is full of surprises , returning characters both good as well as evil , great characterization , and more . It's just brilliant all around . The only drawbacks are that it's steeped in Who mythology and for those who for some reason to choose this as their first episode of the current incarnation of Doctor Who will be lost and the other thing is not a detriment of the show in the least . More a detriment to me , as so much happens that I truly can't talk about the actual plot too much without spoiling it . And trust me , this IS an episode you'd want to go into knowing nothing about . My grade :
swan song	Two major Who villains clash with Rose , The Doctor , and everyone else caught in the middle . A fantastic second series ender , that proves that while Eccleston may very well have been the better Doctor , Tennant can more than hold his own AND had much better adventures to boot . Yes I've said it , I enjoyed series 2 as a who better then the previous one . This episode is just a superb capper to it . Surprises , thrills , joy , and yes even sadness are in store for you and all in full display with this episode . With Billy Piper deciding to leave , I wish her all the luck in her future endeavors , but I will definitely miss Rose Tyler .
great film , crappy title	Biopic based on Martha Beck and Raymond Fernandez , a couple dubbed The Lonely Heart Killers . Martha is an obese nurse who is a sad and pathetic individual who meets a con-man Raymond through a Loney Hearts club . He swindles women into falling in love with him and bilks them out of their fortunes . Martha and Raymond are meant for each other as they're both despicable , hateful people . This film is among the best biopics that I've seen . And aside from a few fairly campy moments , it's acted marvelously . The decision to shoot in black and white was brilliant . A lot of films get praised highly and don't warrant it . But this film deserves every accolade praised upon it . DVD Extras : 30 minute Interview with Leonard Kastle ; essay except with rare photos and clippings from Beck and Fernandez's trial and incarceration ; Biographies , and Theatrical Trailer
Female Death Wish	A mute girl after being raped while returning from shopping , returns home only to come face to face with a burglar who rapes her again . But when he drops his gun , she brains him with an iron , killing him . She then cuts him up and drops the body parts off in various parts of the city . When she shoots a guy who she thinks is about to rape her for a third time , she's at first repulsed . But as her mind and grasp of reality begins to corrode , she heads down a path that won't be easy to return from . Zoe Lund , in her first movie , is great and believable as the young mute . This is without a doubt Abel Ferrara's best film . Gripping , gritty , and raw . The perfect female-side " Death Wish "
Penetrates your funny bone ( r )	This humorous porn written by , Johhny Jump-up ( he wrote the great " Black Throat , as well as helped write the superb Devil in Miss Jones 3 and 4 ) and produced by the great Gregory Dark , has to do with a lost honeymooning couple deciding to stay at a strange house owned by one Dr . Penetration after their car brakes down . So after consummating their marriage , ( this IS a porn film after all ) , the wife finds out that the good doctor wants to steal their souls via stealing their sexual fantasies , while the husband spends the whole movie with Igor . Any film that features a nice game of Twister , a bizarre flashback of how Barbara became a Lobster woman , . and other weird characters , is gonna score higher with me . This one delivers the goods sex wise as well . My Porn
a classic of thrilling noir	In quite possibly his best and most memorable role , Robert Mitchum is Max Cady , a smooth-talking , malicious pedophile recently released from prison after an 8 year stint in the pen . He targets Sam Bowden ( Gregory Peck ) , a man who helped put him in jail , his wife Peggy , aid in particular , his daughter , Nancy . This original version is MUCH more thrilling , suspenseful and such a sheer joy to watch when compared to Martin Scorsese's misfire of a remake with lacked the original's spirit , substituting a glossy veneer and gore for this film's high tension and amazing performances . Director J . Lee Thomson coming off of the brilliant " Guns of Naverone " , made another classic , albeit of a much smaller , budgetary if not emotionally , scale with this film . DVD Extras : 28 Minute Making of ; Production photos ; production notes ; cast and crew Bios ; Theatrical Trailer ; and a trailer for " Boogeymen : the killer compilation "
one of the best of 2006	Christopher Nolen further proves that he's definitely a writer / director to look out for with this excellent tale of feuding magicians . Without naming any actors specifically , they're all uniformly great in this film . I was captivated from beginning to end and that in itself is pretty impressive and no mean feat . The fact that none of the actors were even nominated for this years Oscars is a mild travesty as it's definitely one of the best acted films I'd seen in 2006 . And yes the ending can be seen coming a whiles away if one's paying even the mildest of attention , but that doesn't really detract from the experience one iota . It's definitely not a feel good movie to say the least , but it's simply superb .
powerful , enraging true story	Ffor a film made it 1979 it holds up incredibly well to this day . John Savage gives a harrowing performance as Karl Hettinger a man who is justifiable shattered when his partner Ian Campell ( Ted Danson , in his first big screen role ) gets executed by the gay psychotic Gregory Powell ( surperbly played by James Woods ) This film is very powerful . It will make you mad , it might even make you cry . As the heinous perps are handled by a criminal justice system that is highly flawed . Ex-cop Joeseph Wambaugh true-life story of the events is excellently brought to the screen by Director Harold Baker ( this remains his best film ) . In closing , I'll just say my heart goes out to the families and friends of the victim . DVD Extras : Commentary with Harold Baker ; " Ring of Truth " ( a 29 minute featurette ) ; and a theatrical trailer ( this is a film begging for a true Special Edition , perhaps a Joeseph Wambaugh box-set containing this , " the Black Marble " , " New Centurians " and a bonus extras disk can be arranged somehow , one can only hope )
tom and jerry at their most pure	Tom is chasing Jerry when the mouse befriends a small canary . A lot of the gags work and hearing Tom's laugh is infectious . And the canary is one of the third characters that I like , unlike the buzzard for Flirty Birdy or the fish from Cat Fishin ' . All in all this is a pretty funny violent Tom and Jerry short . This hilarious cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry " DVD Extras : Commentary by historian Jerry Beck on how this is his favorite Tom and Jerry cartoon , talks about Jerry's sidekicks , and the animators ( kinda sparse , with some silent parts )
Papa and baby bear steal the show	In the first appearance of the three bears characters , Bugs Bunny gets drawn to the smell of the carrot soup that the family trio of bears have left out hoping to catch Goldilocks . The papa Bears constant abuse of the dim-witted baby heuy-type baby bear is priceless and is what makes this cartoon worth watching to me . See the baby bear always reminded me of my one friend so that only added to the humor of the situation . Mama bear is way to quick to attempt to start an extramarital affair though . This cartoon is on Disk 3 of the " Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 " It also has an optional commentary
you know how to whistle , don't ya ?	After Jerry the mouse rescues Spike the dog from being caught by the dog pound , he offers to be a bodyguard for the mouse . All he has to do is whistle whenever he's getting attacked by Tom the cat , and spike will be right their to pummel Tom . At first it works superbly but after Tom gives Jerry a jawbreaker covered in glue Jerry finds that he can no longer whistle . This short has some great sight gags . And while Spike might seem a bit thick-headed and dense I enjoyed it immensely . This cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
Outstanding	The third film I got to watch at the philly film fest was this outstanding drama from Japan . After breaking out of prison nine escaped convicts plan to find the " key to the universe " that a tenth convict who didn't break out told them about . Along the way we get to know each of these men fairly well . Each has their own dreams . For much of the movie it seems to be mostly a comedy , but a shift takes place that the film ends up a tragedy . All of the actors give great performances . I can't say much more without spoiling the film , but suffice it to say that you end up feeling for some of these individuals . At 2 hours , this film is a tad to long , but good none the less . I have no qualms recommending it with the warning that it does have a bit unsettling violence for the tender-hearted . Toshiaki Toyoda hit a home-run this time out , and it makes me want to search out his prior films as well as look forward eagerly to his future ones .
Tom and Jerry go to war	Jerry the mouse and tom the cat are at war with each other , Jerry using such items as egg ' hen ' grenades , light bulb bombs , and various other Weapons of Mass Distraction . Tom is pretty much the Nazi to Jerry's American soldier in this one . It won the Oscar for best short cartoon in 1944 and rightfully so as this is one of the funnier Tom and Jerry cartoons that I've seen and worth having in ANYone's collection . This hilarious award winning cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry " Which is a great buy however way you slice it .
a mind & % # $ of a film , i liked it	Jamie is a mentally stunted adult obsessed with the father whom her mom kicked out when she was a young girl . This movie is insane . it did keep my interest throughout . Those who go into this film , thinking it'll be another 70's-era skin flick are in for a surprise . Nudity is kept to a minimum . This is more of a psychological mind & % $ If you stick with it , it's a pretty good , creepy b-movie . This movie is coupled with " The Toy Box " on the Something Weird DVD . My Grade : BDVD Extras : Art Gallery ; 2 short subjects ( the Toy Telephone Truck , & the Christmas Eves ) ; Trailers for Toys are not for Children , the Toybox , The Exquisite Cadaver , Tales of the Bizarre , The Single Girls , Ann and Eve , The Depraved , Sextet , The Naked Countess , and Labyrinth of Sex
classic	Spike the dog is giving his new son , Chip a bath . He leaves him alone to wash himself but Tom the cat and Jerry the mouse dirty him up while chasing each other . Spike gives Tom an ultimatum . His pup stays clean or else Tom will be killed by him . Of course Jerry sees this as a weakness on Tom's part and he exploits it to the fullest extent that his little mouse brain can conceive of , leading to a great many wild and memorable scenarios . No point in over-analyzing the short it's just great fun . This hilarious classic cartoon can be found on disc two of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
In my top 5 of Takashi Miike's films	A prequel to Miike's " Young Thugs : Innocent Blood " , this follows Riichi in his early formative years growing up on his way to becoming the thug in the earlier film . One of the very few problems I had with Innocent Blood is the lack of in depth characterization , but that's remedied here in spades . Filled to the brim with the joys , heartbreaks , and wonder of childhood . the movie is universal in it's appeal and a true joy to behold . One of my favorite foreign coming-of-age films . This only solidifies the nothing that Miike can do much more then the violent , bizarre films that he's primarily known for . DVD Extras : Takashi Miike interview ; Osaka's People featurette ; Bio / Filmographies ; original sleeve art ; and theatrical Trailer My Movie :
great animated classic	Tom the cat is a soldier assigned to guard the banquet table . Along come Jerry the mouse and his orphan friend Nibbles , looking for something to eat and causing Tom much grief . This short won an Oscar for best cartoon short subject in 1952 and it's easy to see why as it's clever , humorous , and just an all around joy to watch . Utterly brilliant in every way and it retains it's humor upon repeated performances despite the slightly disturbing ending . One of the many many classic Tom and jerry animated shorts . This hilarious animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set .
Choose wisely	Harrison Ford is back as Indiana Jones in this first true sequel to " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . This time he teams up with his father ( Sean Connery ) who was captured trying to find the fabled Holy Grail before the Nazis's get to it first . We get to find out where Indiana got both his hat and his name . As well as many more thrills , cliffhangers , and awesome sights . This was an amazing finish to a utterly superb trilogy . I don't have high hopes for the 4th installment coming out soon . They should have kept it a true trilogy . So choose wisely , choose to own all three of these amazing films . DVD-Rom content : an exclusive web link to get picture galleries , a PC game demo , and Raiders Animatic : Opening the Ark
the first TRUE Clampett Cartoon	This 21 minute documentary on the work of Bob Clampett can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . And is very much worth it for any fan of his , of which I certainly am . Featuring interviews by his daughter , fellow cartoonists , and other notables , it also features clips of his work as well as old stills of behind the scenes stuff . This is great stuff and i loved watching every second of it . Needless to say I feel that this is the best " Behind the Tunes " featurette of all that I've seen hands-down . There will never be another Bob Clampett in my or your lifetime .
Highly awaited . . by me at least	Thank god for DVD , I was waiting for a chance to see this film since I was but a wee pubescent gore fiend way back in the mid ' 80's when I saw a clip of it when I rented " Terror on Tape " ( which was and still IS a much better compilation of horror films then the much better known " Terror in the Aisles , but I digress ) , while sleeping over my Aunt's house . This film's plot is just alien eats and eats and eats some more people . So was it worth the decades long wait ? ? Well for the most part a resounding YES . I knew it was going to be low budget and I knew it would have bad acting . But it was still a really fun movie for gore lovers . And i wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to fellow low-budget horror film fans . Synapse DVD Extras : 2 commentary tracks ( the first with the director and a few cast members and the second with the Producer ) ; alternate opening ; audition tapes ; stills gallery ; outtakes ; a 15 page comic book style prequel ; and theatrical trailer
The " Rocky " of baseball films	The Natural is Roy Hobbs ( Robert Redford ) , who after being dealt a major setback after being shot when he's on his way to the big-time as a pitching prospect , returns to the game he loves as a middle aged man to hit for the New York Knights . Sure the film is syrupy and conforms to certain Hollywood stereotypes , but it's still an all-around great film . . In my mind , this is Redford's shining moment , his best film and quite possibly the best ' baseball ' film out there . ( the baseball is in quotations because the movie isn't really about the sport ) I'm not even going to quibble and say that Roy is kinda dense for not knowing what Glenn Close's character had to tell him WAY in advance . Those who follow my reviews know I don't give out accolades easily , so you know this film deserves the kudos bestowed upon it . DVD Extras : 45 minute documentary with Carl Ripkin Jr ; Talent files ; Theatrical Trailer ; Trailers for " Bugsy " , and " The Way we Were "
El Santo kicks so much ass	Three-eyed , fit bodied Martian socialists want to the world to disarm their nuclear weapons , stop war , have the Earthling start a universal language , and everyone to love one another . . . or DIE . They decide to teach the world a lesson by conquering Mexico . They capture universal TV airwaves to voice their intentions , but thinking it's a new TV show , everyone laugh . But ElSanto , the masked wrestling superhero is listening as well and plan to out wrestle these commies . . um . . i mean space aliens . They choose to send one alien to a soccer game to show the power of their disintegrating third eye . But Santo happens to be there teaching prepubescent boys how to wrestle each other for the benefit of defending the weak . When El Santo sees the alien , it's wrestling time . To tell you anymore would be a great disservice . Suffice it to say you HAVE to experience this camp classic for yourself in ALL it's glory . You WILL be wanting to search out each and every one of El Santo's other 57 films after you finish seeing this one . TRUST ME ! ! It's just that awesome . My Grade : A DVD Extras : 33 and a half minute interview with El Hijo del Santo ( Son of Santo ) ; 6 & a half minute retrospective on Santo ; Biographies on El Santo & Wolf Ruvinskis ; Santo Filmography ; Theatrical Trailer , and trailers for " In Raw Flesh " , " One's as Good as the other " , and " Coming of Age "
Muscle was robbed	Tom the cat is giving Jerry the mouse more trouble then usual , so he sends a telegram to his cousin Muscles to come help him as soon as possible . What a great violent ( even for a Tom and Jerry cartoon ) short . Definitely one of the classics in my mind . It was nominated for an Oscar as best animated short in 1951 , but just like " Sunset Blvd . " ( the best picture nominee of the year ) , it was cheated out of winning by a less superior product . Stupid Academy Awards . This hilarious classic cartoon can be found on disc two of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
pure magic	Tom is playing Hungarian Rhapsody # 2 for an audience , but when he wakes up Jerry , he must maintain his perfect piano playing abilities while contending with the mouse . I know there was a controversy between this short and the WB's Looney Tune short " Rhapsody Rabbit " ( which is a funny short as well and the similarities are a lot ) , but I feel that this Tom and Jerry short is the clear winner . It is damn near pitch perfect and one of the best Tom and jerry cartoon shorts of all time . And rightfully so . The classic tune meets classic animation . This award winning cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
Better than the Simpsons overall after taking into account how bad that once great show has gotten	Stan . Kyle , Cartman , Kenny , are the funniest thing to ever come out of Comedy Central thus far , and I have a feeling that will remain true in the future as well . " South Park " is hilarious , thought-provoking sure , but mostly hilarious in it's profanity and outrages situations . From time to time it seems to ruffle the feathers of the ultra-thin skinned PC crowd due to the Libetarian philosophy that pervades in most of the episodes , but they're huge p % & sies anyway . Sure this had a few lame episodes , but never in a row of four and never enough to make a whole season not worth watching ( yet the 8th season WAS trying at times ) . But overall it's a great show , and if Matt Stone & Trey Parker are able to keep the pace up for another year of great episodes then it'll have a better run than the Simpsons , in my mind , that had stopped being good at around Season 9 or 10 ( I don't really see the first 2 seasons of that show being that great either , so that's 7 seasons of Simpson's genius hilarity against about 8 of South Park that were great )
great take on " Fantasia "	A parody of a great many Disney films , this short is simply fantastic and yet another feather in the hat of Bob Clampett ( I know I seem to say that a lot , by Clampett was indeed a genius of animation ) . The music is magical , the animation is great , and although it might not be nearly as hilariously surreal as most of Clampetts other works , it's still very VERY good and I remain captivated by the short every single time I sit down to watch it . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and also features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier .
Gene Simmons meets Gene Simmons	Comedian / Impersonator Craig Gass makes Gene Simmons second appearance on Howard's E ! show utterly hilarious . He comes into the studio in complete Kiss make-up and does a spot on impersonation of Gene that leaves everyone ( viewers included ) in absolute stitches . Much of the humor comes from the immpresion that Kiss would put their brand name on just about anything . Of all the episodes of Stern on the E ! network , I truly feel that this one is definitely in the top tier ( and with more than 2 , 200 episodes in the long run , that's saying a lot ) So if you can get this episode anywhere ( I saw it on Howard TV , but it expires soon ) , don't pass the chance up to watch it !
poor fat Elmer	Elmer Fudd stands to inherit 3 million bucks from his Uncle , if he can just withstand harming Bugs Bunny . He unfortunately reads this tidbit of information while he's hunting the rabbit , meaning Bugs overhears him and will take every advantage of this new wrinkle in the scenario that he can . Which lets him get away with a good deal much more , until a new telegram arrives . . . Such a great cartoon starring the fatter Elmer , he slimmed down considerably later in his career , and a still unrefined Bugs ( looks wise , not attitude wise ) . Great gags make this one of the better ones of the early years . This animated short can be found on Disk 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 and includes an optional commentary by Jerry Beck and cell painter Martha Sigall .
The films that SHOULD have won Oscar for Best Picture : 1951	This was the first of Billy Wilder's work I've even seen , sure I've heard of him , just not seen any of his movies . Made in the fifty's " Sunset Blvd . " is simply timeless & it's easy to see why this movie of a washed up writer / turned gigolo to a washed-up has-been actress is rated so highly . A superb indictment of everything that's wrong and distasteful about Hollywood and probably even truer now that it actually was when it was made . This film is also crammed with in-jokes and references that practically beg for multiple viewings . The acting by everyone is perfect & this movie is such a wonder to behold . DVD Extras : Audio commentary with author of " On Sunset Boulevard : The Life And Times Of Billy Wilder " Ed Sikov ; Three featureless ( " The Making Of Sunset Boulevard " ; " The Music Of Sundet Boulevard " , and " Edith Head : The Paramount Years " ) ; Morgue prologue ; " Hollywood Location " map ; Photo galleries ; Theatrical trailer
Fields second best film	W . C . Fields is Harold Bissonette , the owner of a general store who is endlessly tormented by his family . After he gets an inheritance from his deceased relative he longs to buy an Orange Ranch . This is my second favorite Fields film ( behind the great " Bank Dick ) There are so many memorable comedic moments in this one and it's a sheer joy to watch W . C Fields one of my favorite comedians at the top of his game . This movie can be found in the W . C . Fields comedy collection , along with , " The Bank Dick " , " My Little Chickadee " , " You Can't Cheat an Honest Man " , " International House " , and " W . C . Fields : Behind the Laughter "
yet another brilliant film by Wes Anderson	Steve Zissou ( Bill Murray ) a Jacques Cousteau-like aquatic documentarian whom has lost his prestige somewhat , goes on an expedition of revenge to kill a shark who had killed his friend and Team Zissou partner , Esteban . He has to deal with his aloof wife ( Anjelica Huston ) , the son he didn't know of Ned ( Owen Wilson ) , Klaus ( Willem Dafoe ) who's jealous of Ned , Jane ( Cate Blanchett ) a interview , and his chief nemesis , the supremely cocky and arrogant , Alistair ( Jeff Golblum ) . I adore Wes Anderson pictures and he has yet to make one that is less than stellar in my eyes . All the actors are simply splendid and well done . I still like " Rushmore " more , but this is still a great movie . It not only holds up but gets better on subsequent viewings . Eye Candy : Robyn Cohen is frequently topless DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by Wes Anderson and Noah Baumbach ( great , but the bleeping out of Jacques Cousteau's name was distracting ) ; an episode of " Starz on the set " ; 9 Deleted scenes ( with more eye candy ) ; and theatrical Trailer Disk 2 ) Behind the scene photos ; ' the Look Aquatic ( a 5 and a half minute interview with the production designer ) ; Creating a scene ; a 19 minute interview with Devo member Mark Mothersbaugh ; ' Mondo Monda ( a spoof Spanish talk show interview ) ; Intern video journal ; a piece on the costumes ; ' This is an Adventure ' ( a 51 minute documentary ; Interviews with Seymour Cassel , Cate Blanchett , and Owen Wilson ; a visual effects piece ; design pictures ; and 10 songs of David Bowie as song by Seu Jorge ( great stuff ) Easter Eggs : Disk 1 ) Highlight a hidden arrow in the bottom-right room of the Belafonte for outtakes of Bill Murrey jumping and jogging in place Disc 2 ) highlight an arrow by the Criticon Logo for an introduction to the disc in Spanish ; highlight an arrow near the seaweed for a clip of Albert Maysles golfing My movie Grade / DVD grade :
Speedy is a friend of evreebodiees seeester	The native mice of Mexico want some American cheese , but Sylvester the cat is guarding the border . After a few disastrous attempts to get at it . They send for Speedy Gonzales to get pass this gringo pussycat . The second appearance of Speedy is a classic and cemented yet another great character in the already impressive array of Looney stars . Don't listen to the mind-stealing PC police , Speedy is funny . This Oscar-winning animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 and features an optional music only track as well as a commentary by Jerry Beck .
McKimson should have stuck to these Foghorn films ONLY	Little chikenhawk Henery longs to proves to his grandfather that he's old enough to catch chickens . Foghorn Leghorn just so happens to be a chicken but Henery thinks he's just a schnook on account of his hear his pop call him that . The cartoon is hilarious and if Robert McKimson just stayed with making Foghorn shorts , and never EVER made a Bugs Bunny cartoon then I would have no beef with the guy at all . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 and features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier .
visually stunning , excellent story , great acting make this one of my favorites	Toshirô Mifune plays Sanjuro Kuwabatake , a samurai in 1860 with no master to serve any longer finds himself wandering the countryside . One day , he happens upon a town that he's told is divided by Seibei and Ushitora , two gangsters . Becoming Yojimbo ( a bodyguard ) , he decides to play one against the other until the gun toting son of one of the gangsters arrives in town . . . The best far Eastern Western , this highly influential film is superbly directed by Kurosawa and excellently acted by Mifune . It's exciting , a joy to behold , and a visual feast throughout . And while , not the best Kurosawa film , that's more a testament to how truly great the director was than any form of indictment against this wonderful film . Criterion DVD Extras : Merely the theatrical trailer
Marc Athony and Pussyfoot's first short is a classic slight spoilers	this short of a bulldog who gets charmed by a kitten and his subsequent attempts to keep it hidden from his mistress is excellent . The jokes are pretty damn funny and the overall playful tone is quite refreshing to me . When he attempts to pass that cat off as a wind up toy is so cute and amusing , as is when he makes the kitty into a powderpuff ( you have to see it ) . The joke with the mouse is humorous as well . This is one of Chuck Jone's greatest non-regular Looney Tunes character starring shorts and I can't recommend it enough . This cartoon is on Disk 3 of the " Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 " It also has an optional commentary as well as a music-only track and a featurette
Wow ! !	My friend & I had to go out of our way to see this film , as it wasn't playing near us . We got a tad lost , so we ended up missing the first 5 minutes . But that doesn't matter , This movie was so amazingly good . Bill Murray is Bob , a depressed actor in Tokyo shooting Whiskey ads when he finds a kindred soul in Charlotte ( Scarlet Johansson ) , a depressed girl there with her photographer husband . All the acting in this film was amazing . Not haven seen the director's previous " The Virgin Suicides " , i had no idea what to expect . Needless to say i was VERY happy . Most likely a future Oscar contender ( if not winner ) ! !
Seven is a Ten	This is the film that single-handedly made me think of David Fincher as a great director , all of his subsequent films only cemented the deal of him being one of my favorites . Brad Piit & Morgan Freeman as Detectives Mills and Sommerset are after a devious , grisly killer who murders his victims based on the Seven Deadly Sins ( Sloth , Greed , Envy , etcetera , etc . . ) , in this extremely well crafted , gripping , suspenseful thriller , that never falls into the one tap that these thrillers too often fall into , which is letting the audience get ahead of the plot . ALL of the actors in this film are superb in their respective parts , including Kevin Spacey who gives his best performance of his career , just slightly edging out his part in " The Usual Suspects " in my mind . It also features one of the greatest endings that I've ever witnessed . Moreso , the entire film has a kind of poetic beauty and sense of grace that comes off it that is simply mesmerizing and makes this film one that is simply a sheer joy to come back to again and again . A must see modern day classic , no matter how you slice it , this movie comes with my highest recommendations . 2-Disc DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by Director David Fincher , Actor Brad Pitt and Actor Morgan Freeman ; Second Commentary by Professor of Film Studies / Author Richard Dyer , Screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker , Editor Richard Francis-Bruce , New Line President of Production Michael De Luca and David Fincher ; Third Commentary by Director of Photography Darius Khondji , Production Designer Arthur Max , Editor Richard Francis-Bruce , Richard Dyer and David Fincher ; Fourth Commentary by Sound Designer Ren Klyce , Composer Howard Shore ( with Isolated 5 . 1 Music and FX Cues ) , Richard Dyer and David Fincher ) Disc 2 ) Exploration of the Opening Title Sequence with 3 Angle Options & 6 Audio Options ; 7 Deleted Scenes , Extended Takes , and 2 alternate endings with Optional Commentary by David Fincher ; Production Designs with Commentary by the Photographers ; Still Photographs ; The Notebooks with Commentary by the Designers ; Filmographies ; Mastering for the Home Theater with optional commentary ; Theatrical Electronic press kit ; and Theatrical Trailer : DVD-ROM content : Scrpt to screen comparison ; and Weblinks
utterly hilarious	Sylvester the cat is trashcan diving for his dinner when he runs into an little orange kitty trying to take food from the same trashcans . It's extremely cold outside so Sylvester is happy when he's taken in by Elmer Fudd . But here comes that darn orange kitty again and Elmer can only keep one . So it's a battle of wills to see who stays while Elmer sleeps on the dilemma . This cartoon is great and further proves ( if any were truly needed ) that Sylvester was the TRUE star of his pairings with Tweety bird . As he excels in this solo outing . Plus the kitten makes an excellent foil . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 .
We can rebuild it , make it stronger	Being an avid reader of " Punisher " , I was waiting to see this film for quite some time . Opting to see it over going to the second half of " Kill Bill " ( which I'll wait for video as I don't like being out 15 bucks to see ONE film , but that's a story for a different day ) . Thomas Jane does do a pretty good job at playing Frank Castle ( an ex-FBI agent who is out for revenge when everyone of his relatives die ) , . MUCH better then Dolph . And Travolta wasn't THAT hammy , but having such high expectations , I couldn't help but be let down a bit . Now , I'm not one of those nuts who whine when any little thing is changed from the comic book character & Frank's background being different didn't bother me . I was off-put by Castle's wisecracks , some of them cringe worthy . The sequel still holds big possibility , and I'd still implore you to see this one , so another one can be made . Just don't expect anything more than a slightly above average action flick & you'll be fine . I DID love the fight with the Russian though and it's easily the highlight of the film . My Action Movie
good	This thirty minute documentary is located on the Punisher DVD and covers pretty much everything you would want to know about the shooting of the movie , as well as scouting the locations and pre-production . I for one would have liked to see the Kuwait footage realized , as well as the scenes of Frank Castle's black partner re-instated . ( hopefully in the upcoming director's cut , i guess ) But then again I'm an umber-fan of the Punisher character and besides if certain movies starring a young practicing wizard can be nearly 3 hours long then the Punisher film could have been as well . C'Mon , does anyone hear me on that one ? ? LOL
Fantastic	This second pairing of Wile E . Coyote and the Road Runner is a great as the first . Predictable maybe , but I don't care and still laugh so much whenever I see it . The Wile E . / Road runner shorts always had the most special place in my heart . So knowing that the second disc of the Golden Collection would not only feature 11 of this , BUT they would be in chronological order ( 2 through 12 , the first episode was on Volume 1 ) , made me get misty eyed . I LOVE this stuff . This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier .
The ending alone is worth the price of admission	The sixth pairing of Wile E . Coyote and the Road Runner , has the crafty coyote trying glue on the road , a giant rubber band , an outboard motor in a wash tub , and in quite possibly the funniest ending of any of these cartoons dressing up as a female road runner . I feel that the ending made it as funny as the great first animated short featuring these two wonderful characters . But perhaps I'm a bit biased as Wile E . Coyote is one of my absolute favorite cartoon personalities of all time . This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
keep an open un-PC corrupted mind	Larry Smallbut is bitten by a transvestite so when the moon is full he turns into a limp-wristed queen . He has to try to get back on the straight and narrow . All these people who complain about anything that that see as the tiniest bit ' homophobic ' and nitpick about the differences between gay and cross-dressers need to get their head out of their asses ( pardon the pun ) . And it only shows that being PC is sadly alive and well . For the rest of us ( Ie . SANE people ) , we can see that it's JUST a movie . Funny at times , stupid at others ( the whole hillbilly thing ) , but anyone who rants against the film not for what it is , but for what their narrow-minded views conceive it as being are just sad . My star rating will be higher than my graded rating in an effort to rectify that . ( again no pun intended ) DVD Extras : 26 minute documentary " Curse of the Queerwolf : Completely from Behind " ; a 1 and a half minute clip of the queerwolf's debut in " A Polish Vampire in Burbank " ; Mark Pirro biography ; and theatrical trailer Eye Candy : Cynthia Brownell gets topless ; Darwyn Carson in a see-thru bra
Viewers win by more then a hair	Bugs Bunny attempts to beat Cecil Turtle in a race , but can't . This short shows that Bugs doesn't lose very often . But when he does he can be as sore of a loser as Daffy Duck . I found the short to be hilarious myself , with great sight gags . but I can see why others would disagree . This short leaves the ending unedited unlike when it's shown on TV . Also the ending brings to mind that there IS a fair amount of suicide in the Looney Tunes canon of shorts . I have no idea what THAT'S about . I'd definitely recommend this short without hesitation . This cartoon is on Disk 3 of the " Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 "
Chuck's masterpiece	Everyone knows what happens in the excellent animated masterpiece . A guy finds a dancing , singing frog whom will only dance or sing for him and it drives him crazy . This is the best Chuck Jones short ever ( no easy feat ) , and will be with else to entertain countless generations of the young and young at heart . Many attempts to duplicate this has but done throughout the intervening years , but accept no substitutes . This is fantastic stuff . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It features a commentary by Micheal Barrier , as well as an optional music only track . My Grade :
A Hidden Great gem	A good alien ( Kyle MacLachlan , fresh from the excellent " Blue Velvet " and a few years away from his breakthrough role in " Twin Peaks " ) , along with a human detective is on the trail of a body-hopping fugitive alien in this great ' 80's sci-fi movie . Any true man would love this relatively low-budget movie . Many explosions , much gunfire and car chases . The story is very involving and it's just a VERY fun film . To think that the Director of the atrocious " Nightmare on Elm Street 2 " and the writer of the abysmal " Whacko " and " Operation Dumbo Drop " also gave as this classic boggles the mind . Followed by a sequel that was so bad that it made " CHUD 2 " look good . DVD Extras : both widescreen and fullscreen versions ; Commentary by Jack Sholder and Tim Hunter ; early effects footage ; cast and crew filmographies ; Theatrical Trailer ; and 3 Easter Eggs ( Trailers for " One Night Stand " , " Twin Peaks : Fire walk with me " and " Nightmare on Elm Street 2 " ) Eye Candy : an extra or two gets topless
A diamond in the rough	Great film about Eddie ( a superb Robert Forster ) having to train young upstart , Eddie ( Donnie Wahlberg ) in the diamond selling biz . Their chemistry is superb . The dialog just crackles & it pulls you right into this film . Of course one knows where the film's headed way in advance , but that doesn't distract from the brilliant acting in this character study . I highly recommend it & i rarely hand out suck accolades easily . Where I saw It : ShowtimeEye Candy : Both Kristen Minter as Cherry and Sannah Laumeister as Amber drop their tops ( and at what may be a first Nikki Fritz as Fran leaves hers covered , heh go figure )
one of my favorites	Bugs Bunny is in Little Reds wicker picnic basket as a present for her Grandma . But when they get there a wolf is in the house and no grandma in sight . Bugs and the wolf naturally go at it , but are constantly interrupted by an obnoxious Little Red who really wants to get her lines in . This is one of my all time favorite Looney Tunes Bugs Bunny shorts and the scene where the wolf is singing and dancing only to be interrupted by Little Red which he just casually slams the door in her face and goes right back to singing and dancing . That gets me laughing every single time I see it . GREAT stuff . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
Excellent tom and jerry short	One of Tom and Jerry's best shorts involves Tom ordering a book on how to catch mice . As Tom finds out , the advice is hardly fool proof and leads to some of the most memorable gags in the history of the cat and mouse duo . the toupee , the robotic female mouse , the pretending to read something uproarious gag , " Don't you believe it " . It's all here . This short is excellence personified and a MUST HAVE for everyone with even a passing interest of Tom and Jerry shorts . This hilarious Oscar winning cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
the best of the three ( and that's saying quite a lot )	The third and last film of the " Hunting trilogy " ( the other two being on Volume 1 of the Golden Collection ) , features Elmer once again hunting , but not knowing what season it is . Bugs plays with that holding up signs telling Elmer that it's various animal seasons and getting him to shoot Daffy over and over . You know what ? That plot doesn't even begin to tell you how genius , how utterly hilarious , and how classic this cartoon truly is . Just know this . The other two were amazing hilarious , yes . . but THIS is the absolute best of the three . It's just THAT good . This animated short can be found on Disk 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 and includes an optional commentary by Eric Goldberg , as well as a music only track and a Behind the scenes featurette . + +
simply amazing	In the second part of this utterly amazing Doctor who two-parter , The ' Family ' have now found the still now human Doctor , putting those he holds dearest in dire jeopardy . I was really hoping that this was as good as the previous installment . Well I was wrong . Why ? Because it was slighter better if that's at all possible . This two-parter can easily rank right up there with the best of the Doctor Who stories . Great acting , a truly compelling plot line , quite simply marvelous in every way . Now if only all New Who episodes could be as good , I'd be more than ecstatic .
wow	At the known end of the universe , far FAR in the future where no Time Lord has traveled before , Martha and the Doctor meet up with Captain Jack Harkness whom hitched a ride on the outside of the TARDIS . It's not long before they're on the run from cannibalistic , Futurer-kind , and trying to help an enigmatic professor shuttle the last vestige of the Human race off to Utopia . What a great opener to the three-part 29th series finale , it has long-running simmering plot-lines coming to a head in the most delightful of ways . The cliff-hanger which , sadly , in the internet age , one had to have his head firmly in the ground to not have been spoiled to , was great none the less and had me breathlessly awaiting the next two installments .
I'll shove that bat up your ass and turn you into a Popsicle	The Warriors , headed by Swan ( Michael Beck ) , framed for killing Cyrus , a gang leader that would've united all of them , have to get home to Coney Island while all the rival gangs are gunning for them in this slightly surreal , slightly futuristic classic . All of the actors were brilliantly casted and well acted , not the least being David Patrick Kelly as highly memorable villain , Luther ( Waahhrriioors come out to pllllllaahhhhyyyaaaa , is all I have to say ) . The new Director's cut which adds a prologue text crawl that ties it more firmly to an ancient Greek tale , as well as comic book wipes that transitions some scenes , may dumb it down a tad and spell it out for the audience too unsubtly , but it does NOT diminish from the overall greatness of the movie in the least . The superb director / writer Walter Hill has made some all-time classics with " 48 Hrs . " , " The Getaway " , " the Driver " , Red Heat " , among others . ALL of them much loved by me and to say that this film is hands down the best of all is quite a compliment indeed . Followed by a video game based on it by Rockstar that looks simply amazing and a planned remake that will in no way even hope to be as half as good as the original ( It won't even have the great Baseball Furies , I mean , come on now ! ! ) Director's Cut DVD Extras : An Introduction Walter Hill ; A little over an hour long documentary cut into 4 featurettes ( The Beginning : From Novel To Screen , The Battleground : Casting the Warriors , The Way Home : Making The Warriors , and The Phenomenon : Releasing the Warriors ) ; Theatrical trailer ; Video Game Trailer ; and Trailers for " P Diddy's Bad Boys of Comedy " , " Airplane : Don't Call me Shirley Edition " , " Hustle & Flow " , " Macgyver " , " George Lopez : Why you crying ? " , & " the Godfather "
great pilot for a great series	Ex-model Maddie Hayes , now penniless thanks to an shifty accountant , decides to liquidate the businesses that she still owns . But David Addison wants desperately to keep his job as a private eye at a detective agency that Maddie owns . After a dying man forces Maddi to take a watch , they find themselves chased by bad people . As well as the start of a TV love / hate relationship for the ages . The chemistry between Bruce Willis and Cybil Sheppard is amazing , the dialog is great and this is one of the better TV movie pilots that I've seen . The pilot can be seen on the Complete First & Second seasons DVD Set ( and I can't recommend that you buy it highly enough )
Everything a Who story SHOULD be	In order to give the slip to some enemies that have him cornered , the Doctor chooses to erase his own memory . Using the old alias of John Smith , he winds up as a teacher in a finishing school in 1913 . Now completely human , he must deal with human feelings such as true love . Martha is tasked with keeping an eye on him while the crises passes , but as always with the Doctor's adventures , it's not quite that easy . Now THIS is what I'm talking about ! This is everything a good Doctor Who tale should be , an extremely well-acted , captivating , marvelous story with memorable , suitably threatening villains and no over-reliance on CGI . If the second half holds up as well , it'll be ranked amongst the best episodes of Who in decades .
