A kid's fantasy movie doesn't even appeal to kids . . .	I hate this movie with a vengeance . Rob Reiner , one of the most respected and talented directors , with films such as " When Harry Met Sally . . . " , " The Princess Bride " and " A Few Good Men " under his belt . . . made this ? This pure dross ? North ( Elijah Wood ) sues his parents because he doesn't like them . He wins , and then he goes around the world searching for new parents . With all the abused children in the world , North wins against his parents because . . . they don't let him do fun things like , say , jumping through fire ? C'mon . With such great cast members , including Bruce Willis , Dan Akyroyd , Jason Alexander , Julia Louis-Dreyfuss and many , many more , why is this film so darn horrible ? One of the worst - stars - John Ulmer
Unwatchable .	How bad is the 1996 remake " The Island of Dr . Moreau " ? Unwatchably bad . That's how bad it is . I like Val Kilmer ( " Heat , " " Top Secret ! " ) and Marlon Brando ( " Apocalypse Now , " " The Godfather " ) , but this movie is not only messy , strange / abnormal and downright boring , it is . . . I don't know , I just despise it with a vengeance . Probably one of the worst films I have ever seen . stars - John Ulmer
Pathetic attempt at discrediting Mel Gibson	It's no secret that Britain hates Mel Gibson : financially most of his biggest films have bombed over here ( including , not surprisingly , The Patriot and Braveheart , both accused of being " anti-British " ) , and with the release of " The Passion " Britain is rather uproarious . Europe is very liberal and so there aren't as many supporters of the film . Suddenly , Mel Gibson has gone from anti-Brit to anti-Brit / anti-Semitist / Holocaust denier / Christian fanatic . This documentary cashes in on this trying to provide background to Mel's life - his father's outlandish claims , etc . The problem is that they never actually interview Mel . It's like watching tabloid trash - they say plenty of bad things about him , go into his drinking problems in the ' 80s , his affairs , and rely on director John Badham as a " close friend " ( yeah right ) of Mel . Badham is the only guy who has anything good to say about him . The entire documentary has a propaganda - released strategically during the era of anti-Mel-ness and relying on tabloid trash for " facts . " The problem , also , is that the " documentary " is so silly ! Comparing Mel to Hitler ? Mmm . . .
One of the Worst Film I Have Ever Seen . . .	What do you get when you mix Rambo , James Bond and pre-teens ? " P . U . N . K . S . " : one of the worst films I have ever seen . Unlike some films , " P . U . N . K . S . " isn't even " So bad it's good . " It's just plain awful . Despite Randy Quaid , this film still sinks to the depths . Take one scene for example : these kids manage to get into this " top secret " building by taking a young Jessica Alba , who went on to star in TV's " Dark Angel , " ( with this film , I'm surprised she got a role in a commercial ) pushing a ball in her shirt and making the guards in the building think she's pregnant . A 12 year old . Right . Anyway , she stands outside the building at midnight , going " Oh , my , my baby ! " And of course , the guards , being the " stupid adults " they are , rush out to her with dumb looks on their faces , as these other kids enter the building and start shooting rubber darts at " hi-tech " cameras mounted on walls . We see a POV from the camera - - the kids leap in front of the cameras like an action star , and shoot the darts with nerf guns . Good Lord Almighty ! There are many things like this , including a scene at a golf course where these " Men in Black " FBI guys start chasing these kids , who are dressed in leather shirts and pants . And of course , they have sunglasses , too . So the kids manage to outsmart these FBI agents - - at a golf course - - by doing insane things that would make a two year old blush . Don't see " P . U . N . K . S . " I strongly urge you stay clear of it . It isn't even funny . stars-John Ulmer
One of the worst films of all time . . .	A colossal mess . Badly acted , poorly written , sorely misdirected . The " 3 Ninjas " series never needed a sequel , much less the uncountable number it has spawned . The infamous 3 Ninjas go to a theme park in this sequel and use Hulk Hogan to fight off a bunch of terrorists ( ? ) . Miserable , putrid stuff . The acting is in league with " Pod People " ( 1983 ) . Do NOT watch this movie ! I feel stupiderererer already . stars . - John Ulmer
Jaws : The Personal Vendetta !	There is no explanation for " Jaws : The Revenge . " It is just there . You either accept it as it is , or come to love it . I prefer to deny its entire existence , if that is at all possible . If the people who made the film had half the smarts they should have had , not only would they have ended this series three sequels ago , but they would have at least come up with something exciting , much less original , as potential material for this film . I can accept one lousy sequel . I can live with a second . But when a third sequel comes around and it keeps getting lousier every minute in , I have no choice but to fume smoke out my ears and write a review with a grimace on my face . It's been an odd number of years since the original " Jaws . " Ellen Brody ( Lorraine Gary ) , now widowed and living in Martha's Vineyard , a . k . a . the seaside town Amity , has basically forgotten about the shark that she had nothing to do with . Other than the odd occasion when she gets flashbacks of events that she never witnessed , and in most cases no one ever witnessed , she's just dandy . One night on Christmas , her son , seen as a teenager in " Jaws 2 , " gets eaten by a shark off the shore of Amity . Ellen remembers the shark , and is convinced that " this time it's personal . " So she catches a ride to the Bahamas , to live near her other son , and plead with him to quit his job as a - - whaddaya know - - marine biologist . He assures her that no Great White Sharks have ever been spotted off the Bahamas . . . but before you can say " duh-duh-duh-duh , " a revenge-filled Great White Shark arrives at the Bahamas ( in three days , mind you ) and proceeds to try and eat Mrs . Brody . I wish it had , so we wouldn't have to sit through the rest of the film . All her friends ignore her pleas for help . Just as is the case with most horror sequels , they pooh-pooh her away until something really awful happens , and then ask her why she never told them about what was going to happen . But Ellen doesn't wait for that to happen , which is at least one thing about this film that breaks away from the horror-sequel mold . Ellen Brody instead rushes into the water to sacrifice herself to the shark , in a last-ditch effort to stop the killing . When she does so , her new boyfriend , Hoagie ( Michael Caine ) rushes to her side . . . by crash-landing his airplane at sea , being attacked by the shark , and swimming to the boat , climbing in without any wet clothes , and doing absolutely nothing to help her other than scream a lot and look worried . Hoagie's black friend , Jake ( Mario Van Peebles ) , who was no doubt forced to help Hoagie help his girl by Hoagie himself , helps out just long enough to get eaten by the shark . ( But , seeing how this is a " believe it or not ! " kind of sequel , he comes to the surface five minutes later looking just fine , even though he was just carried underwater by a savage beast moments earlier . ) And if you fast-forward the next scene , in which they attempt to defeat the shark , you'll see just how humorous the image of a Great White Shark standing on its fin can be . I go to the beach every year , and that , for me , is part of the fun of the " Jaws " series . I've always been squeamish when I think of sharks . The ocean ( s ) is / are like another universe , occupied by strange creatures , most of which we know nothing about . And sharks are the rulers of this underwater world . " Jaws " played right to that idea , showing us all just how powerful and scary these creatures can be . But they also used the idea that these beasts of the depths are mortal . " Jaws : The Return " plays with the continuing trend that the shark is now invincible ; the creature is no longer something the audience can relate to , but is an invincible monster . " Jaws " used to be more than just another invincible-monster-movie . " Jaws : The Return " ruins this and ends the series on a low-note , ruining the suspense of the first film . I really hope Steven Spielberg returns some day to end this series on a high-note . Besides , it can't get any more screwed up than it already is . But the film's non-existent suspense is not the only problem . " Jaws : The Revenge " isn't good at all . It isn't even fun to watch . It's so awful that it's not humorous the least bit . I've seen my fair share of bad sequels coming off of good movies , but " Jaws : The Revenge " takes the cake as one of the worst . The only remotely funny thing I found about this movie is that the shark , Jaws ( or is it Jaws no . 4 ? ) eats people . And Michael Caine's name is Hoagie . You put it together . stars ( no stars ) - John Ulmer
Copy off of stripes set in a Police Academy , but is it funny ?	Yes , while the film is an exact copy off of the 1981 film ' Stripes ' with Bill Murray , Ivan Reitman and John Candy , just nowhere near as good , it has some funny moments . Aside of Guttenberg's horrible acting rip-off of Murray's character from Stripes , Police Academy has some funny moments , but after the sequel it just got horrible . I mean what , didn't they make 7-8 films ? Then a cartoon show ? The funniest thing , is watching part of Police Academy - Mission to Moscow , on the local Spanish channel I get . I didn't understand what they were saying , but that made it even more pathetic ! So even though it's basically a rip-off gone bad of Stripes , Police Academy has SOME funny moments , at least enough for a friday night viewing .
The Worst Film of 2002 ? Maybe . . .	I think we can all agree unanimously that teen films are getting worse and worse every year . John Hughes ' teen flicks from the 1980s were very special , because they showed " real " teens in " real " situations , and not the stereotypical figures present in all teen films these days . " Not Another Teen Movie " may not have been a great flick , but at least it had the courage to try and spoof all the other films from its genre - " Slackers " doesn't ; it just becomes another teen flick . Here's what we've got : The Three Cool Guys ( one of which is an Ugly Cool Guy who should be a Dork ) on Campus get blackmailed by The Geek , who wants The Hot Girl , who is interested in The Head Cool Guy , who tries to get The Geek hooked up with her , but ends up falling in love with The Hot Girl . The Other Two Cool Guys get hooked up with other Ugly Girls , and The Geek remains a geek . There always has to be a small band of cool guys breezing past school , there always has to be a geek , there always has to be a pretty girl , and there always has to be the girl everyone thought they wanted but found out they didn't after all . " Slackers " is about The Three Cool Guys ( including " Night of the Twisters's " Devon Sawa ) who are happily cheating their way through college , until The Geek ( " Rushmore's " Jason Schwartzman ) sees them cheating and blackmails them . He wants to get hooked up with The Hot Girl in school , but as I said before , The Hot Girl is interested in The Head Cool Guy , and so when The Geek finds out what's going down he gets mad . This film is so basic it hurts , but even when you think it can't get more basic . . . it does . The director , Dewey Nicks , has got to be one of the most untalented slackers ( har-har ) to ever film a movie . Every scene is not only handled with minimum care , preperation and outcome , but shots are suddenly split in between other shots , and imaginations are put into sudden shots . Maybe one time is original , the fiftieth time it gets annoying . It's like a really bad music video that just won't stop playing . Among these very badly cut scenes is one where Jason Schwartzman is talking to two girls and suddenly imagines them licking him all over , then it cuts back to them talking , then licking . Another is when The Three Cool Guys start imagining themselves bicycling and shooting " Star Wars " guns and being chained to a bed by a transvestite . That didn't make sense , did it ? No . It doesn't when it suddenly appears in the film , either . I saw Devon Sawa's first breakthrough role , TV's " Night of the Twisters , " and I then saw him in " Wild America . " What has happened to him since ? " Idle Hands " and " Final Destination " and " Extreme Ops " is what , and honestly I don't think I hear many people talk about him at all . I blame it on " Slackers " ; right as his career as an actor started to take off he got stuck in the middle of this wretched film . Eh , I never really liked him anyway . I do , however , like Jason Schwartzman , who showed some real talent in " Rushmore , " which was a bit of a teen movie but had more originality , flare and humor than this film . ( It also starred Bill Murray . ) " Slackers " has made me lose interest in Schwartzman , because I cannot honestly understand why a young man with so much talent would choose this script over all the others he could have had at this point in his career . " Slackers " has made me lose respect for everyone involved in the project . If you like any of the actors involved in this horrible production classified as film , I suggest you stay away from it . stars - John Ulmer ( P . S . - Notice the unbilled cameo from Cameron Diaz in the film . )
Not the Worst Ever , BUT . . .	Definitely one of the worst films of 1998 , if not THE worst , " The Godson " lacks one fundamental element of comedy : Humor . The cast , including Rodney Dangerfield , Dom DeLuise ( who spoofs Don Corleone ) , and Kevin " Kids in the Hall " McDonald , would make you think this film a riot . However , it is quite the contary . The jokes all fall flat , including the excrutiatingly unfunny " bank " skit , that just went on and on until I was squirming out of my chair - not from boredom ( well , not ONLY because of boredom ) - but because like many of the " jokes , " it outstays its welcome to a point of discomfort . Overall , this movie is one of those films that should be seen only if you're in the mood for it . Which SHOULD be never . stars - John Ulmer
Could have been better . . . much better	NOTE ( / 04 ) : This was one of the first reviews I wrote on IMDb . Excuse the spelling mistakes and stupidity herein . = = = = Wow ! I never knew a trilogy of movies that were horrible compared to the original . I mean , Batman was great , Batman returns . . . too dark . Batman Forever ( which I regrettably bought thinking it would be good ( ( which is why I rent movies first now ) ) was okay . . . a little too dumb , and again dark . But Batman and Robin is a movie that you can truly pick out and say , " That movie is a piece of crap . " Chris ' O Donnel , Uma Thurman , Alicia Silverstone , and even George Clooney acted hoorible in this film ( although that's pretty normal . . . ) . Schwarzenegger was perfect as Freeze though , he brought the classic Batman character Victor Frieze to life , and added the cold chill to his voice , and am I the only one who thinks Uma Thurman is ugly ? ? ? When " Batgirl " drops in at the end and Clooney says something like , " Who's this ? " and she replies , " HE-HE , It's me Bruce , Barbara ! " I nearly screamed out in laughter . I mean all she has is this 2 inch long bat shaped mask . You can practically see her entire face . Chris ' O Donnell was once again loud mouthed and horrible actor , and I had to think what WAS with these stupid attempted one liners like , " Chicks dig the car " , or George Clooney's , " This is why superman works alone . . " the only ones I found funny were Arnold's , like " Okay everyone , Freeze ! " , and the way he spoke with intelligence . Overall I think the only part I liked was at the end . . . SPOILERS AHEAD . . When Freeze is put in the same jail cell with Poison Ivy , after he found out she tried to kill his wife ( who is frozen in a test tube during the movie , because he's trying to find a cure for her disease ) , and he walks in and you just see his outline of blue , and see her scared expression ( which is pretty fake looking ) . Then he says something fancy and starts laughing . And the only thing I liked about the ending was how you see Freeze , in a way had a righteous anger ( in a way , though I'm not saying freezing a city justifies it ) , but it was righteous in a way , and in the end he gets to still work on his wife's disease cure at the jail , and he gives Clooney the cure for Alfred's disease . Too bad it was a bit corny the way Clooney acted talking to him about it all . Overall I give Batman and Robin 1 and a half / 5 stars . PS Why call this movie Batman and Robin , instead of Batman and Freeze , or Batman and Batgirl , Because Robin was already introduced in Batman Forever , why didn't they call THAT one Batman and Robin ?
Maybe Not So Genius After All ?	" Baby Geniuses " catches a rare glimpse of Christopher Lloyd in a bad acting rut . I never would think it possible after watching " Back to the Future " or " Taxi , " but ' tis true . " Baby Geniuses " is one to miss . If you liked this movie , you'll lo-o-ove " Kazaam " ! stars - John Ulmer
One of the Worst Comedies of the Year . . .	When I first saw ads for this film , I thought it looked great . A great comedic cast , a good director , and excellent material to be based upon . Unfortunately , due to September 11 , the film had to be postponed . I didn't realize this at first . When I didn't see it show up in theaters , I thought I must have missed it and it had bombed . But I found out it was just postponed . When it finally did come out , I never got a chance to see it , because it literally was off the box office in one week . After reading numerous bad reviews on " Big Trouble , " I feared it would be a " Big " flop , so to speak . Still , underneath this , I still felt certain that it received negative comments just because of , and no one could enjoy " dumb " comedies anymore . Maybe because I am a fan of Dave Barry - - though I never read the " Big Trouble " novel - - this helped make my decision . Regardless , after so many bad reviews , I had low hopes for the film , yet at the same time , high expectations . So I rent the film , pop it in the DVD player , start it up , and : it's a bit funny at first . I chuckled at the Frito joke in the very beginning . Then , I liked the parody on Dave Barry - - it was probably in the novel . Dave tends to make fun of himself . Tim Allen plays a pulitzer prize-winning ( sound familiar ? ) writer for the Miami Herald - - Dave's real job . Anyway , I found that funny , and started thinking , " Boy , this IS going to be good ! " Boy , I was in for a " Big " Surprise . The film quickly deteriorated into a horrible , unfunny joke . The only funny thing about this film was that it claimed to be comedy . Tim Allen , who I thought would be the main character , narrates in the beginning . But , all of a sudden , we're shows a bunch of characters , including : Rene Russo , Stanley Tucci , Denis Farina , Ben Foster and DJ Qualls . Not bad actors in any sense of the word ( well , at least the first three ) , and not a bad scenario . Unfortunately , what ruined it is how we are thrown into it . I felt like saying , " Whoa , hold on , what ? " It's so hard to follow . Then , we are introduced to more characters , including Tom Sizemore , who I've always enjoyed seeing on screen , especially in war films ; Patrick Warburton , who in my opinion is a funny guy . Perhaps it's the way he talks with an almost Clint Eastwood-like low hiss . Hard to explain . Anyway , he's a funny guy , but the film isn't . If it's a Russian bar , to a goat on the road , to an airport scene that parodies airport security ( I doubt that would be in the film now ) , Big Trouble had so much potential , but the way it was edited was horrible . Tim Allen is barely in the film , then is thrown in at the end to save the day . . . " Big Trouble " is one of the worst comedies I have seen this year . It pains me to see Dave Barry's comic humor go to waste . I wondered why he didn't help at all with the production of the film - - he probably knew it would be a flop . Or , is it " Big " flop ? stars - - funny in the beginning , but deteriorates quickly into a dumb , unfunny film .
Good , but not the best ever .	I'm not exactly sure how this got number 1 on the top 250 on IMDB , I liked it but I wouldn't say it's the best movie ever . It was a good remake of the books , even if they did leave out Tom Bombadil and the whole forest chapter . That always happens when they bring movies to the big screen . But Peter Jackson did a good job of bringing Middlearth to life . The cast was great , especially Ian McKellen as Gandalf the wizard . With outstanding special effects and scenery , Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring , is not only nice to look at , but also to get involved in . Although it was 3 hrs . long and a bit slow paced towards some scenes , that's what I'd expect from a remake off a book like TLOTR trilogy . 3 and a half / 5 stars
The Million Dollar Flop . . .	Now here is an odd movie . It is boring from beginning to end , and its biggest star wears a neck brace throughout . Under normal circumstances I would praise Mel Gibson for taking on a small role in a film , but given the film , I have to wipe everything away from memory . But I fear I will never be able to . I should have thought twice when my video store clerk told me this was the most refunded film of the year . " The Million Dollar Hotel " is about a hotel - - pretty obvious . One day , a man jumps off the top , and cop Mel Gibson is sent into the creepy hotel to investigate . The hotel is inhabitated by a group of pure oddballs ; they make the Mansons look like the Beavers . One is a strange man who wanders about thinking he is the fifth member of The Beatles , while a strange woman prowls the streets at night . And the narrator is the worst ; he mumbles through the narrative and you can't even tell what the heck he's saying more than half the time . He'll start off and slowly his voice becomes so low-pitched and mumbling , you feel like just putting on the subtitles . When Gibson starts to investigate , we realize that he is just as odd as the people in the hotel . Which leaves one to wonder what the filmmakers were thinking . Truly , the characters are so disconnected and odd , they are not even original ( which I suppose was the filmmakers ' goal ) . They are a bunch of annoying , mumbling druggies that inhabit a creepy hotel . Given the right director and actors this film could have been pulled off , but the director , who uses a bunch of annoying camera techniques , seems to try and make everything dark and broody - - nothing wrong with that , but it gets over-the-top after a while , and you actually start to get dizzy . Why ? Well , first you have to strain to hear the narrative , then you have to focus not to get dizzy from the narrator jumping around like a monkey on screen . ( He admits to Mel Gibson he is dumb . Dumb is an understatement . ) THEN you have to strain to see the surroundings , and the camera techniques make you sick the entire time . The film's idea came from U2 man Bono , and I can imagine how mad he is right now . This film is pure , unadulterated trash from beginning to end , posing as cinematic art . It steals from " Blade Runner " and any other dark film you can think of . There are no redeeming values whatsoever , and I , the man who will sit through any movie and never say that 90 minutes of my life were stolen , actually started to feel like 90 minutes of my life were being stolen . That's a first . Usually I can watch any film with Mel Gibson , mainly because I think he has a strong yet subtle screen presence , but this film actually made me sick . But I suppose there's some irony , because Mel Gibson himself said at a press conference , " I thought it was a boring as a dog's [ bottom ] . " If you like trash , dirt , grime , annoying characters , ripped-off camera techniques , ridiculous scripts and horrible voice-over narratives in your films , then I highly recommend " The Million Dollar Hotel . " But if you are like the majority of moviegoers who . . . hmm . . . actually appreciate GOOD movies , then I recommend you go pick up something else . Not even the Gibson fans should see this one . As Peter Travers from Rolling Stone said in his review , " I suppose I should tell you that Mel Gibson's character had a third arm . It's not important . It's just one of those movies . " stars - John Ulmer
Will Friedle should get his own show . . .	Not-very-funny television show that introduces us to two brothers ( Kieren " I Look Like Macaulay " Culkin and Will Friedle ) whose lives are the prime focus of this show that only got a few episodes on NBC before it was booted . I looked forward to it and found myself disappointed . Last I heard , Kieran was doing a play in downtown London . Should be called " Go Figure . "
Can reality TV become any more degrading ?	This show is literally depressing to watch . I've seen two or three episodes now , and wish I hadn't . After they were over , I was disgusted . Essentially this is just a TV show where a camera crew follow around the " Playboy Bunnies " in the Playboy Mansion . If you don't know what Playboy is , who Hugh Hefner is , what Playboy Bunnies are , or anything about porn , chances are you will have no interest in this whatsoever . I know all of the above and it still made me feel sick . Obviously a certain portion of this is scripted for dramatic effect and viewer appeal but , I think , probably very little . These bleach-blonde bimbos are incredibly stupid , selfish and appalling . Yeah , they're hot . But when they open their mouths , you feel like vomiting . It's kind of sad to see Heff ( at age 79 ) courting these girls . The Head Bunny , a . k . a . " Heff's Girlfriend , " is probably no older than 30 . All the girls kiss him and he fondles them . . . twenty years ago Heff was a god . Now , he looks like one of those disgusting old pervs in shopping centers who stare at young girls all day . He's the type of guy you want to call the cops on . And he's loose in his own mansion surrounded by dozens of beautiful women . Likewise , they are taking advantage of him - they know he'll die soon and they're really milking his old-age for all its worth . They get free rooms as well as free food and the best thing of all : they get paid for being sexy and rich ! The richer and more beautiful they are , the more they get paid . The more they show , the more they get paid . Apparently , all they have going for them is their looks - they are dumber than I don't know what . They are so stupid some of the episodes are painful to watch . They made me feel sick in my stomach - the Bunnies are gorgeous ? Sure . But good god , they're ridiculously dense . In my opinion , the only " plus " about this show is that we get a rare glimpse inside the Playboy Mansion . . . but ol ' Heff will be dead in a few years , and supposedly according to his own wishes the mansion will soon thereafter become open to the public . Now THAT will be fun .
I don't care who you are - - this is not funny .	Larry the Cable Guy represents everything wrong with America today . He embodies the racism , intolerance , crudity , immaturity , and generally unpleasant nature of a lot of people . He's an unfunny bigot - - but more than that , he's a fraud . He claims to be from the south - - and indeed has built his entire comedy career on this - - but he actually grew up in the mid-west and his name is Dan Whitney . He doesn't actually speak with a southern twang accent - - it's all a persona he fits into to make money . There are some rare video clips of him out there where he speaks without an accent , any redneck " Git-R-Done " fans should check them out for a shock . I was watching an interview with " Larry " on CMT a few nights ago and he said he doesn't pay attention to the detractors because he " does this for the fans . " He admitted that most of his fans are 14-year-old boys and therein lies the problem : Larry appeals to young teenage boys , and his entire comedy routine is the equivalent of visiting a random teenage boy's home and eavesdropping on his conversations with friends . Larry does something that another annoying loudmouth fraud , Carlos Mencia ( real name : Ned ) , does : if you don't laugh at his jokes , he says you don't understand them . Or he talks down to you . When people don't laugh at his crude toilet humor , Larry says , " I don't care who ya are , that's funny right there . " Right . Maybe for those of us who lived near nuclear plants as children . Larry spews wonderfully humorous one-liners , such as , " You ever tuck your weeny in between your legs and look in the mirror to see what it'd be like if you were a girl ? " Yeah . Great stuff , Larry . A very prescient , witty and insightful comedian . He's the next Lenny Bruce .
Michael Jackson's dream come true .	The entire concept of a huge fat talking dinosaur visiting children during schooltime hours to give them a way to pass the time is the typical American response to short attention spans . Apparently recess isn't good enough for kids from the States so they have to be entertained by a purple rubber suit . Nevertheless it spawned hundreds of millions in revenue and for a few years ( mainly the early-to - mid-nineties ) Barney the Dinosaur ( TM ) ( C ) ( R ) was THE children's representative . The show was a runaway success and the merchandise sold stupendously well . Unfortunately ( or rather fortunately ) by the time this film rolled around in 1998 Barney had already hit the slippery slide downwards and the movie generally flopped in theaters . The hype was low and the response was decent , if that . I remember reading some OK reviews of the film back in ' 98 but I rest assured that those critics were merely smoking crack . This is one of the most terrible films ever made and even as kids ' entertainment it is intellectually insulting . The acting is atrocious ( it's got the kid from Jurassic Park 3 in it when he had even less acting skills ) and the whole idea of some big , fat , annoying guy in a dinosaur costume playing with kids for two hours strikes me as a bit Michael Jackson-ish . Victor Salva probably went to see this a few times when it came out , too .
Too long , too underdeveloped , too weird , and too darn politically correct for my own personal liking , although I'm sure many people will enjoy it ( particularly those who liked " Brazil " ) . . .	Prior expectations can make or break a movie . Oh , how they broke this one ! I thought this movie was going to be about angels visiting America . I didn't like what I saw in the adverts , but Al Pacino and Meryl Streep and Emma Thompson were in it ! By George , I had to see it ! To not do so would be a sin , right ? Too bad they don't stress on the advertisements that this is arguably Al Pacino's worst performance since " Gigli " ( wasn't that just last year ? ) , and one of the worst of his entire career . Not only that , but the film barely even features Pacino , Streep and Thompson at all in its six-and-a-half-hour running time . I don't mind that , but when you advertise actors all over a film to draw mass markets , don't exaggerate . It's called false marketing . Instead of the top-notch cast , we are treated to Ben Shenkman and some other various actors portraying gay man in Reagan-era America , circa 1985 . Essentially their various stories intertwined through one main idea ( AIDs and homosexuality in the 80s ) , the film quickly becomes strange and tiring thanks to a truly mind-shattering 6 . 5-hour running time . This isn't badly made . I'm sure many people will enjoy it . But for me , it was too strange . I'm not a fan of " Brazil " for the same reason - - I just don't always like very weird films . It's not that I have a closed mind - - I often try . It's just a little trait inside me . I get turned off by them as soon as they start trying to twist and turn the world upside down . ( There are rare exceptions where I like this , such as in " Adaptation , " but more often than not I am disappointed . ) The movie is beautifully shot , for what it's worth , and that is why I give it a recommendation - - and that alone . I can't commend the performances in this film because they're all borderline mediocre . In one of the earliest scenes - - the introduction of Al Pacino's character - - I had to wonder if this was the same great actor who brought Michael Corleone and Tony Montana to life in the past few decades . Ray Cohn ( Pacino ) is a hot-shot " up yours " lawyer - - you know , the kind who make fun of you behind your back and think they're " all that . " ( Not that I've ever met a lawyer like that before - - I just see ' em in the movies portrayed this way . Big cliché , or small one ? Grisham writes lawyers this way , so I guess it has to be true , right ? ) The movie's primary focus , as I mentioned before , are its two leads : Prior Walter ( Justin Kirk ) and Louis Ironson ( Ben Shenkman ) , two gay lovers hiding in a semi-closed closet , only open to their close friends and family . Louis , a Jew , is shunned upon by his family at his grandmother's funeral . And when Prior reveals that he is infected with AIDS , everything goes wrong . Louis leaves Prior for a closeted homo , Joe Pitt ( Patrick Wilson ) . Joe's wife , Harper ( Mary-Louise Parker ) , has no idea about his homosexuality - - until he confesses and leaves her for Louis , who has now turned into a sort of carefree homosexual . When he's having sex with an anonymous guy in a park and their " protection " breaks , he doesn't care . " Go ahead , infect me , " he says . This scene made me want to vomit , to be honest . Meanwhile , Ray also becomes infected with AIDS , and tries to keep everything a secret between him and his intimidated doctor ( James Cromwell in the best performance of the film ) . There are also a few angels who seem to visit these people in their hallucinatory dreams , but these entire sequences are extremely strange , and turned off myself and two other viewers from enjoying the film at all . They're beautifully filmed , but little else . This is a six-and-a-half-hour film , so to divulge into the extended plot seems pointless . I've basically gone through the entire first half of the program , leaving the second half up to you in case you feel a need to watch it . The film is directed by Mike Nichols ( " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " ) , which is surprising , because the film is essentially empty . Tony Kushner adapted the screenplay from his own stage play , and at a whopping six point five hours it still fails to ( a ) develop characters and ( b ) provide any interesting scenes . It just trudges on and on , really losing steam in the final act . I liked this film , to a certain degree . I liked the beautiful cinematography . I liked most of the first half . I liked the way it felt more like a film than a miniseries , in most respects . I liked a visitation scene by Emma Thompson in which she has " holy sex " with a gay man . This was all fine . I didn't like the film's emptiness , its lack of character and story progression , the false advertising of Al Pacino and Meryl Streep , the bizarre dream sequences , and I especially didn't like the preachy homosexual subtext of the entire motion picture . It's too long , too underdeveloped , too weird , and too darn politically correct . But if I were to grade this film on its technical aspects , it would get a complete five-star rating . Excellent set design and lighting . Very eerie and bizarre - - despite my personal dislike for such sequences . For its cinematography , and that alone , " Angels in America " gets a recommendation . The reason it didn't get a full five-star rating should be pretty apparent to you by now if you've managed to read this far , which I somewhat doubt . It's pretty depressing to know you're in a minority - - especially when it comes to stuff like this . stars . - John Ulmer
An absolutely horrendous film , but one of those " so-bad-it's-good " treats . . .	I never saw the original " Agent Cody Banks , " and don't want to after seeing this , one of the worst mainstream films of the decade . It stars Frankie Muniz as the returning titular character , who is conveniently sent off to London in order to achieve a " mind control " device . The movie is aimed at children , but as we have learned from films such as " The Princess Bride , " most family films are better off when they target at both children _ and _ adults . " Agent Cody Banks 2 : Destination London " is at times so juvenile , stupid and downright ridiculous , that I almost started to laugh . Cody gets a new love interest , a pretty British girl , who happens to be some sort of British Intelligent Agent who works in downtown London . Mm-hmm . Then , Cody is debriefed on his new mission while riding the London Eye with his new partner . Too bad that when riding the London Eye , there are security cameras that record everything , and many people are stuffed into each cubicle . Not exactly the best place to be debriefed on a top-secret mission , huh ? Most of the movie uses scenes such as these to boast London , and get Cody into the city's famous landscapes , rather than on a mission . He goes undercover as a clarinet player , records a dog playing piano ( yes , that's right ) and eventually uncovers a scheme hatched by an ex-FBI agent to take control of the world leaders ' minds ! Uh-oh ! This is all topped off by a young punk taking center stage during a world leaders meeting and singing " War - What is it Good For ? " and dancing as the scene is interspliced with sequences showing Cody - a teenager - kicking major butt , beating up grown henchmen , but NEVER killing them , of course . Then there's that magnificent scene where the Queen of England starts to dance to the song , doing the boogie , and an all-too-eager Chinese man jumps up on a table and begins to move to the music , rather embarrassingly . I felt embarrassed through most of this movie . It is an utter waste of time - a full-blown commercial effort at enticing young kids and their helpless parents into theaters to watch a half - " arsed " effort at a sequel . Oh , I feel for the people who will inevitably be subjected to " Agent Cody Banks 3 - Destination : Puberty , " I really , really do .
Wow I'm so glad I wasted an hour of my life watching an ugly dog of a woman have sex	What I'm interested in is the fact that in Britain there is a CUT VERSION available : UK : 18R ( cut ) ( adult version ) / UK : 18 ( cut ) / USA : Not RatedHow CAN this movie even be cut to begin with ? It's a porn tape ! If you cut out the hardcore you have the following scenes left : - Paris Hilton making pouty lips at the camera - Paris Hilton in underwear for thirty seconds before having explicit sex - Paris Hilton saying " That's hawt " about a million timesIt's rather unfortunate that such a big ordeal was made out of such a nasty and unexciting porno tape . Oh wow she's Paris Hilton so her sex tape is automatically controversial and the best ever made . News flash : IT SUCKS . Tommy Lee and Pam Anderson's was better . Not that I have a habit of watching celebrity porno tapes ( they're the only two I've seen , unless you count thirty seconds of the one with Brett Michaels ) , but I'm pretty sure watching some ugly dog have sex for 62 minutes with a guy who looks like a shaven mole rat isn't my idea of a provocative and erotic night in .
One of the worst films I've ever seen - not even Mickey can save it	I watched this on TV because the digital cable guide listed it as a film " starring Mickey Rourke . " Little did I know all he had was a very brief cameo in the film , yet it was enough for them to advertise his name all over the listings . In fact it actually stars a Tom Cruise lookalike named Daniel Cosgrove who suspects little bugs ( cockroaches and that sort ) are planning to take over the world . The film is shot in a gritty , blue-filtered way - like those TV cop shows ( Law & Order , NYPD Blue , The Shield , etc . ) but the problem is that the " reality " feel of the movie betrays its utter absurdity - - please , LITTLE BUGS ATTACKING THE WORLD ? ! What is this - - the 1950s ? ! The worst scene has to be the very ending ( SPOILER AHEAD ) when all the little bugs " form together " to create one giant , enormous " bug " that attempts to kill the hero . The way he " kills " it is laughable at best . It's not worth watching - not even for Mickey .
James Cameron was originally going to write and direct this film , instead of produce it . He should have .	I don't think anyone can say that Steven Soderbergh hasn't broadened his range of directorial efforts . We've had horror ( " Out of Sight " ) , drama ( " Erin Brockovich " ) , gritty realism ( " Traffic " ) , comedy ( " Ocean's Eleven " ) , and now romance in " Solaris , " a film that blew me out of the water - in terms of I was so surprised it sucked . I think this may be the very first film that Steven Soderbergh made that is bad - followed by that stinky " Collinwood " movie . It is a nod towards Stanley Kubrick , but most of the film - especially sequences like the docking ship - just seem like hopeless rip-offs . James Cameron was originally going to write and direct this film , but then Soderbergh jumped on board so Cameron produced it . I wish they had let him write and direct it . Not only would it have been much more . . . hmm . . . how should I put it . . . INTERESTING , it would also be about ten times more meaningful than this sorry mess . The film ( based upon a novel and previous film titled " Solaryis " ) takes place sometime in the future , when a pshrink named Chris Klein ( George Clooney ) is sent to a space station on the planet Solaris to rescue a crew of space explorers . Once there , he realizes why no one wants to leave . Chris ' dead wife comes back to him in the space station - she looks real , she feels real , she acts real - but she is undoubtedly an image from his memory , extracted by the mysterious planet . Soon he realizes that he cannot take her back to earth , and he must cope with the fact that she must be destroyed . But she seems so real he refuses to do so . Oh my , the suspense , the suspense . What an intriguing idea we have , completely wasted with an incompetent script and style of direction . The characters act weird throughout . For example , when Chris first arrives at the space station and finds people dead , he also finds a survivor named Snow . Chris doesn't seem to ask many questions . He asks what happened , and the Snow character ( who is also very weird ) doesn't answer correctly . Chris just kind of walks away , and finds another survivor . Once again , he gets no answers . So what does he do ? He goes to sleep . Everyone in this movie just acts weird . I can't describe it in words - they just don't act right . Even the humans . This may very well be George Clooney's most washed-out performance to date . And the actor who played Snow , Jeremy Davies , is one of the worst actors I have ever seen . He plays the exact same characters ( notice the similarities to his character in " The Million Dollar Hotel " to his character in " Solaris " ) . In fact , " Solaris " is a lot like " The Million Dollar Hotel . " I hated that movie with a personal vengeance . On the DVD commentary track for " Solaris , " James Cameron said , " If I had made it there would be a lot more car chases , more gunfights . " Quite honestly , I wish there were . Cameron would have made this film interesting , with or without violence and extravagant special effects , even . Soderbergh simply makes a melodramatic snoozer that is as boring as it is odd and ridiculous . stars - John Ulmer
" Hounded " by Young Children Asking You to Let Them See This Movie ? SAY NO !	I have to agree with another reviewer on here : it's pretty bad when parents can't have trust in " The Disney Channel . " Here , we see a young boy being chased around by a small Pomeranian dog who is not on its medication . So , of course , it attacks the boy in a spur of madness ; this could easily scare small children . I don't want to sound like some peace-hippy , but it's true . The image of a boy being bitten and attacked by a small dog could result in nightmares for children - and headaches for parents . Other than that small fact , the movie is STILL lousy ; I wouldn't recommend it either way . Bad actors , bad dialogue , bad . . . everything ! Stay away from this movie . Or else . : )
One of the worst films of all time . . .	Simply awful . Stunning . A man in a gorilla suit makes friends with a troublemaking teen who learns to love the gorilla and tries to free it . " Free Willy " meets " Larger Than Life , " only it's worse than both put together ( or subtracted from each other ) . John Billingsley ( " Out of Time " ) has a small role . .
If this movie were a person I would kill him .	I'm not a Paul W . S . Anderson basher - that is , I think he's a generally poor director but I don't devote my life to criticizing him endlessly on Internet message boards - and I think he's at least handled the visual aspects of most of his movies quite well ( hate it or not , " AvP " - which I didn't care for - was atmospherically in-touch with the other movies , and " Event Horizon " felt like an " Alien " sequel itself ) . But really . This movie is absolutely terrible . It's easily Paul's worst movie , which is saying quite a lot . I'm even a decent fan of Kurt Russell so for me to say his performance sucks beyond belief here would be like a Jim Carrey fan admitting Carrey is too over the top in his earlier comedies - it's not going to happen . The movie basically rips off every futuristic / apocalyptic action movie you can think of , including " Alien , " " Blade Runner , " " The Terminator " and of course Kurt's " Escape from New York . " The problem is there's no substance here . The direction is slipshod and lazy - the action scenes are boring and none of the characters stand out at all . The hero is a dull , emotionless waste of space who has one facial expression preserved throughout the movie : The Kurt Russell " Cold Stare . " ( tm ) You'll know what I mean if you've seen a Kurt Russell movie before . Anyway , if you're a Paul basher then you'll hate this . If you're not a Paul basher you'll still hate it . I don't have a problem with simplistic action movies - but at least make them ENTERTAINING ! I was dead bored watching this .
Possibly the worst new TV show on air .	It's never very promising when advertising campaigns for upcoming television shows have to constantly remind us of how unoriginal the program is by endlessly comparing it to other popular shows . " 10 Items or Less " was promoted , in fact , with the following slogan : " If you thought working in an office was funny , wait until you see what it's like to work in a CONVENIENCE STORE ! ! " Oh , wow ! Brilliant ! Let's rip-off a television show which is already a remake of another international television show from Britain ! Awesome ! High fives TBS execs ! You really nailed it on the head this time ! I mean , after a string of flop original TV shows I imagine they must have all been sitting in their meeting with a collective frown trying to figure out how to ( finally ) achieve success . " How about we make a fake documentary show . . . and put it in an office ? " - " Hasn't that already been done ? " - " Oh , yeah , right . " ( Pause ) - " I know ! Let's put it in a CONVENIENCE store ! " - " Yes ! Brilliant idea ! " - " High fives all around ! " Not only are the characters flat , uninteresting and virtually _ all _ rip-offs of characters from The Office ( including Leslie , who is a painfully unfunny Steve Carrell / Andy Gervais wannabe ) - their second episode DIRECTLY STEALS from an episode of the TV show " It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia " ! It's not just a casual similarity , either . The episode of Sunny featured the owners of a bar trying to exploit a water stain on the wall of their establishment which resembles Jesus . The new episode of " 10 Items " ( which premieres in 15 minutes ) features the EXACT same plot line ! I struggled through the first episode trying to understand just how on earth such a desperate show could ever be greenlit . This is the stuff of film parody . There are the stereotypes of dumb executives trying to constantly cash in on successful fads - but this is almost TOO outrageous to be real ! It's a lame-brain copycat right down to its very directorial style and plot lines . The debut was one of the worst TV show debuts I've ever seen . Premieres are never fantastic in most cases but this was agonizing to sit through . This show will disappear very soon , and I hope everyone involved never has a chance to work again . Why ? Well , because I'm a rather evil person who will no doubt find great delight in watching this pack of moronic actors have little-to-no success in the future . Good luck , guys !
If you don't like this film , you're probably just stupid and ignorant .	This is the very best film ever made . The direction of Hal Warren is amazing , and ranks at the top with other grand master visualists such as Kurosawa , Fellini , Bergman , Truffaut , Scorsese , Kubrick , Michael Bay and McG . The acting is compelling . John Reynolds perfectly embodies the deformed " Torgo . " Hal Warren display similarly impressive skills in _ front _ of the camera as Michael , the dense man who , after being told " The Master will not be happy " about his family's presence at a creepy old mansion run by a weirdo who can barely walk , tells his wife she is " imagining things " when Torgo tells her that the Master likes her , and is dead , but not dead the way they are familiar with . The screenplay is superb . Realistic dialogue flows like cheap champagne at one of Paris Hilton's parties . I also particularly loved the Bergman-style shots of nothing-ness - - for example , the opening , which is a ten minute montage of mid-west scenery . Kubrick would be jealous . I also loved how all the conversation takes place through facial expressions . When Michael and Normal American Family first meet Torgo , no exchange of dialogue takes place for over thirty seconds . At first , I thought it was just due to Hal Warren being a totally incompetent director with very poor editing skills . But later , I realized it was all in the gestures of Torgo's face , as he stares at them with icy emotion . He's translating a message : " I'm here , I'm Torgo , I'm sad and lonely . " What a beautiful , poetic and truly moving scene . It made me cry , Warren has transcended the genre here - this ranks in the top class of all films of the past century - forget " Citizen Kane , " forget " Seven Samurai , " forget " Pearl Harbor . " This is the best movie ever made , and if you disagree , you're probably just stupid and ignorant .
I demand a refund !	What were they thinking of when they made this movie ? John Travolta acted like he was in a broadway play ( the way he spoke and acted mainly ) , the characters had horrible interactions , the so called alien species , whom John Travolta plays look like humans with tubes and dreadlocks , and the special effects and plot was incredibly stupid . My last words after renting this from the movie store were , " I demand a refund ! "
" Bulletproof Monk " meets " The Tuxedo " via " The Matrix . " The outcome is disastrous .	Whoever decided to make a Jackie Chan movie with CGI should be shot . I was pretty tired when I attended a screening of " The Medallion , " which may have something to do with why I couldn't properly follow anything in the film . Was it just me , or is the movie absolutely , completely uncohesive and sloppy ? Or it could just be the screenplay . Come to think of it , I'm pretty sure it's the screenplay . But what's with the super-fast speed during the fight scenes ? And who in their right minds ever decided that we , as an audience , come to Jackie Chan movies to see fake CGI / green screen / blue screen effects ? The film , directed by Gordon Chan , plays like one long rip-off of " The Matrix . " Jackie Chan turns invincible after receiving a medallion and learns to leap high into the air and intake bullets without being injured . Now I'm a pretty big fan of Jackie Chan and his movies . I'm not a martial arts cinema buff like Quentin Tarantino , but when I stumbled upon some of Chan's early work I was suddenly , surprisingly addicted to his work . I had a friend who told me how great Chan's films were , and how fun they were to watch , and I'd always say , " Those movies aren't really my thing . " Here's a lesson in why you shouldn't judge things before giving them a chance . His early films were excellent - - his martial arts are the best I've ever seen ( even better than Bruce Lee ) , as he doesn't just use fighting skills - - he jumps up the sides of buildings and leaps over gaps and runs atop of bicycle seats . That's just a sampling of the stuff he does in his films . In fact , he does such dangerous moves that blooper reels at the end of each of his films have become standard , expected highlights of every movie . ( Ironically , " The Medallion " is one of his worst movies , and features one of his worst blooper reels . ) But I don't know , I haven't liked a Jackie Chan movie since " Shanghai Noon " - - those films following his efforts with Owen Wilson have more or less been the same , even the fun but silly " Accidental Tourist " was somewhat disappointing . " Rush Hour 2 " was decent , but I never thought the original was a " great " buddy movie ( nowhere near the fun of " Shanghai Noon " ) . This is possibly Chan's worst effort , not even a guilty pleasure like last year's " The Tuxedo " ( which was a pretty awful movie , but fun in a strange sort of way ) . This is a carbon copy of that film , from the medallion giving him superpowers to the idiotic villain who lives in a large stone castle in the middle of nowhere , surrounded with a bunch of dumb goons who can't even outsmart the stupidity of someone like Lee Evans , the extremely unfunny and obnoxious British standup comedian who Chan is teamed with in this film . You may remember Evans from " There's Something About Mary , " in which he plays Norm the pizza boy who had a big crush on Mary . He was annoying in that film , and in " The Medallion " we realize he wasn't even trying to be . The plot is ridiculous : It has something to do with two ancient Chinese medallions that give the power of immortality when joined together , or something like that . Guess what ? Jackie Chan gets the two pieces and is granted immortality . So now he can jump with visible cable wires and dodge bullets like The One . In fact , this is all " The Medallion " is : A rip-off of " The Matrix . " And a poor one at that . Hollywood once again gives their take on Asian myths and fails miserably . Ever since " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , " all the martial arts films have been like " The Matrix " on drugs - - dumb , fast , and braindead . Each trying to copy " Crouching Tiger " in their own way , these films have become poor excuses for guys like Stifler ( Seann William Scott from " American Pie " ) to be able to kick butt and look cool doing so . It isn't cool . In fact , if I had to explain " The Medallion " in a quick summary to you , it would be this : " Bulletproof Monk " meets " The Tuxedo " via " The Matrix . " " Bulletproof Monk " was one of the worst films of 2003 . Here's another to add to that sacred little list . stars . - John Ulmer
A HORRIBLE 2nd sequel	The Addams Family came out in 91 , and it was a huge hit . Then the sequel came out 2 years later in 93 , also being a hit . Now number 3 is out , the Addams Family Reunion , a horrribly stupid bad acted ( except for Tim Curry and Daryl Hannah ) movie . The plot was stupid , the characters were ALL different . Now I know they had to get rid of the kids from the first two , because as you can see Wednesday who was played by Christina Ricci in the first two is now an adult , making movies like Sleeping Hollow . But they could of casted better Wednesdays and Pugsleys for the Reunion , I mean these kids could not act at all and everything thy did was stupid . Uncle Fester who in the first 2 was played by Christopher LLoyd ( and brilliantly may I add ) , now they have some hyper active freak who goes around yelling and screaming like a two year old doing stupid pranks . . . It was then that it hit me , this new movie was not intended to be a sequel to the previous two . It was supposed to be a movie about the new Fox show " THE NEW ADDAMS FAMILY " , and no way related to the old Addams family . This movie was a huge flop and dissapointment and no wonder they decided to put it on video . If they had released it in the theater it would of made absolutely nothing and they would've gone broke . stars , it was horribly stupid , and I mean HORRIBLY stupid of a movie to make . . . .
" Crossed Over " Shamelessly Wallows in the Fact That It is A Straight-to-Television Film and Does Nothing to Overcome the Fact . . .	Diane Keaton stars in " Crossed Over , " an overly-sentimental film that does not even make an attempt to become anything more than a giant , television " soap " film . Diane Keaton gives no great performance compared to some of her past work , and the rest of the cast members are boring . The direction is confusing and drags out endlessly . I was enthralled when the credits finally started to roll . So many scenes that should and could have been left on the cutting room floor weren't , so instead we are stuck with a two hour soap-fest . I find it hard to believe that the film stays completely true to the book it is based upon , which in turn is based upon real events . I don't really have to go into how preachy and politically correct this film is . It's kind of a no-brainer . Though , I must say , I didn't expect something like " Crossed Over " to be as preachy as it was . " Crossed Over " is another forgettable television film with good potential but an all-too-familar and boring script . stars - -
Horrible	This is by far one of the poorest films I have ever witnessed . There is no direction , no acting , no nothing . Well , actually , there is nothing - which is why nothing makes this nothing movie so bad . Miss it . stars - John Ulmer
Dissapointing	MINORITY REPORT was okay , but after all the hype , I got a weird sci-fi movie with a TOTAL RECALL 2 plot ( for anyone that doesn't understand , Phillip K . Dick , who wrote the short story WE CAN REMEMBER IT FOR YOU WHOLESALE-which was turned into a famous movie named TOTAL RECALL with Schwarzenegger-also wrote the MINORITY REPORT , which was actually nearly made TOTAL RECALL 2-and Arnold would've been in it instead of Cruise probably . I'm not making this up . It's in the commentary on the special edition total recall DVD . ) Anyway , MINORITY REPORT bored me halfway through . It was slow , and Tom Cruise was once again full of himself . Why can't anyone else see this ? Anyway , the movie wasn't as bad as I'm making it sound , but it was a dissapointment . It was also very predictable . If you want a good sci-fi see Total Recall , the prequel to this ( if you remember on mars in TR , the mutated aliens are psychic , THAT'S why they were going to make TR 2 instead of Minority Report .
Terrible " Fatal Attraction " for the new millennium	John Polson is quite an inept director ( he also directed last year's flop Robert De Niro film , " Hide and Seek " ) and this 2002 venture was no change of pace for him . Jesse Bradford stars ( and I use the word " stars " rather than " plays , " since his " performance " is no more than using a single facial expression for 80 minutes ) as a high school jock who is seduced by Erika Christensen and then stalked by her . It's " Fatal Attraction " with teens and it's ridiculous . The script has problems from the beginning and most of the movie is just a way of cashing in on the ' 80s ' obsession with stalker-flicks - fortunately this helped prove definitively that their crossover into the new millennium was , shall we say , not very successful .
A terrible film with zero redeeming qualities	This is essentially a slapstick farce in the vein of POLICE ACADEMY ( they were all popular around then weren't they ? ) only it was made in 1996 and seems like a film from the ' 80s ( that's how cheap the quality of the film is ) . It stars Corey Haim and Jim " Ernest " Varney ( R . I . P . ) but isn't funny at all , with revoltingly bad performances and " jokes . " It's stupid , crude , unfunny and downright hard to watch at times . Saw it years ago on HBO , and don't plan to ever again . This is the sort of movie that you wish could be burned . The plot ( if there is one ) is basically just a lot of chaos at a snowboard academy in the middle of nowhere - sort of like OUT COLD meets POLICE ACADEMY meets something else that's really dumb . Don't bother . Please .
They call this a movie ? MST3K , where are you when we need you ?	George A . Romero's laughably bad and quite embarrassing follow-up to " Night of the Living Dead " ( 1968 ) is far inferior and quite simply atrocious . Jan White stars as the suburban housewife who takes an interest in witch craft and the occult after suffering a sort of mid-life crisis . The beginning of the movie is good evidence of what is to follow . Shots are out of focus , celluloid seems bleached and dry , and Romero is quite obviously running around with a cheap handheld camera - but at least " Blair Witch " had some good moments with this . Romero's handheld camera is almost hard to watch . It's often the equivalent of viewing a small child's home video . Watch the first five minutes and tell me you didn't laugh . Yes , it's really that bad . Romero fans need to see this - proof he's a bad director .
I HATED THIS MOVIE SO MUCH I NEARLY CRIED ! ! ! !	I hated this movie . It was absolutely horrible , poor , poor , PITIFUL acting , REAL REAL REAL stupid criminals that weren't even the LEAST BIT funny ( unlike the first 2 home alone movies that were very good ) . all the boobie traps are weak , pathetic excuses for ideas poorly copied of of the first two which just meant that the people writing this movie were just lazy because their paycheck didn't go above 20 bucks a week . This movie is absolutely lousy , it's not worth even renting . In fact don't even watch it on t . v . ! Go use your eyes in a more useful way by seeing the first two ! I BARELY give this 1 star ( out of 10 ) . Just trust me when I say , if you liked the first two , and you are not a complete stupid person , you will not like this movie , do not watch this movie ! ! !
Rather funny at times , but also somewhat overtly " controversial "	The tagline for this show is , " He's speaking his mind . We're hiring extra lawyers . " If you look back in time , any classic raunchy comedian never prided himself in being controversial . Richard Pryor's tagline wasn't , " I'm Crude , Racist and Daring . " That's basically how Comedy Central is marketing this show - in your face , non-PC and " honest " - but how can a television show pride itself in being this way ? Where's the humility and humbleness ? And what suddenly has made Carlos Mencia this huge figure for Comedy Central ? Let's start at the beginning - Dave Chappelle cancels his show ( which became UNEXPECTEDLY popular and controversial ) and Comedy Central is looking around for someone new to push . They hire this guy named Ned who claims to be a Mexican , even though he isn't . They splatter his face on a few TV ads and make it look like they're being " daring " by unleashing him upon the public . I've seen a lot of hateful topics on the forums for this show , and I don't agree with " Mencia's " detractors . This is not an awful show . It had me crying in laughter a few times . When it's funny , it's very , very funny . Yes , it's juvenile - but so was Chappelle's . The problem with Carlos is that he uses a lot of the same material over and over . And he's too obvious . The overt marketing put aside , " Carlos " has now said beaner so many times I have lost count . He's trying to make it the next famous line ( like " I'm Rick James , b ! " ) but it's way too obvious . In terms of repeating himself , Carlos uses many of the same jokes over and over . For example , on one episode he said he'd love it if all Mexicans disappeared from America overnight . He'd wake up and an American guy would be saying , " Room ser'vuce ! " in a southern accent . He used this exact same joke - verbatim - when he appeared as a guest on Adam Carolla's talk show . It was a great deal less funny the second time around , because he seemed more desperate . Is " Carlos " funny ? I think so . There are some outrageous moments on his show . But he focuses too much on TRYING to be controversial rather than just going with the flow and letting his comedy naturally progress . Repeating silly little catchphrases over and over again coupled with goofy faces and loud vocal screams does indeed get old quite fast . . . I just hope Carlos - or his writers - can give a new edge to this show , because right now it's starting to dwindle in repeat hell .
Perhaps one of the worst films ever made . . .	Silly , ridiculous sequel to an unnecessary franchise that I have no interest in - - especially after seeing this . The film involves a child being revisited by his dead father as a sort of zombie . I didn't really understand it too well because I haven't seen the others - - but any sequel that you can't understand coming to without the first can't be too great . ( Exception : Back to the Future Part II . ) stars . - John Ulmer
One of the worst movies ever made	Get this : Dennis Rodman is an Interpol agent ( ha ! ) living in the cellar of a French monestary with two monk buddies ( one fat , one black ) who try to battle an evil diabolical villain who plans to use some kind of computer chip thingy to arm a weapon so he can blow up the world ( or whatever it is mad movie villains like to do ) . This movie is SO LAME ! I remember I was vacationing in Nags Head , North Carolina when Cinemax started airing ads for the film and presenting it as some kind of " great film . " I thought it looked like total garbage but I watched it anyway , just to laugh at Dennis Rodman . Good god , it's bad . Is it EVER bad ! It's got that distinct crazy directorial style all bad movies of today have - you know , everything's all crazy and over-the-top , ranging from coloring of sets and characters to plots to dialogue to action sequences . Some of this seems fairly reminiscent of that similarly awful Rodman movie named " Double Team , " which co-starred Jean-Claude Van Damme ( ha ! ) and Mickey Rourke ( poor Mickey ) . But any movie with Rourke is at least tolerable . . . this is not tolerable in the least . Rodman gets my vote for being one of the worst actors of all time and this movie certainly fits his talents .
Have you ever imagined what it would look like if Ed Wood directed a mix between " Home Alone " and " Mr . Mom " ?	Sometimes you expect a certain something from a film . You expect it to just be good . At least . But the first impression when you hear of " Mr . Nanny " is instant nausea . Now , you might not know why this produces nausea until I lay down the plot for you . Think of image no . 1 : Hulk Hogan as a babysitter wearing a tutu . While I freely admit that it doesn't sound promising , it's nevertheless astounding that the production team was able to take this simple idea and create one of the most monstrously agonizing motion pictures to come along this year . Now , here is image no . 2 : Hulk Hogan giving a small child weapons training . Image no . 3 : The child electrifying the school bully with his newfound weapons interest . Image no . 4 : Hogan and Kid celebrating because Kid has electrocuted Bully in an awful manner . What we have here is good material for a spoof . How funny would it be to see an eight-year-old electrocute his bully in a Farrelly Brothers movie ? But it's not a spoof . The problem is that in " Mr . Nanny " it is not played as a spoof , but as the real thing . The kid supposedly electrocutes his school bully ( for real ) , and we are supposed to feel happy because he has beaten the bully at his own game . That has to be the most sappy excuse for an emotional rush I've ever heard . I don't feel like celebrating with this kid , but rather arresting Hogan and ordering a restraining order on him . Hulk Hogan plays down-on-his-luck ex-wrestler Sean Armstrong ( get it , " Armstrong " ? ) . He has long since exited the ring because of recurring nightmares involving violence in the ring . To give Sean something to do , his best buddy and manager , Barney ( Sherman Hemsley ) , gets him a job as a bodyguard for computer genius Alex Mason ( Austin Pendleton ) . Mason has invented a new super chip and a psycho is out to get it , so the engineer needs someone to look after his two motherless children ( played by Raymond O'Connor and Madeline Zima ) . Reluctantly , Sean agrees , but only because they already have a nanny and his job will be strictly protection . No sooner has he arrived , however , than the nanny quits and Armstrong finds himself babysitting two demons . A film like " Mr . Nanny " is intellectually insulting on all levels . You have to wonder what the producers and filmmakers were thinking when they gave the " OK " to this film . It doesn't have a plot . It doesn't have good acting . It doesn't even have a half-decent script . The only reason for this film , apparently , is so that Hulk Hogan could be shown in a ballet tutu . Hulk Hogan can't act . His best performance was his three-liner in " Gremlins 2 : The New Batch . " So you can imagine how awful it is when the testosterone-junkie with the deep voice fills up the majority of screen-time in the film , and tries to teach a father the values of family interaction and why it's good to tell your kids you love them . Perhaps this would be good material for , say , a muscle-man that can act , like Arnold Schwarzenegger , but " the Hulk " can't act half as good as Mr . Schwarzenegger , and most likely never will be able to . Most of the apparent laughs in this film come at the expense of Hogan , and at the expense of every film it has borrowed from . It's a bunch of recycled gags posing as new ones . But it might as well be said that I expected it . To name some of the recycled gags , here they are : He's hit on the head with bowling balls ( see " Uncle Buck " ) , drenched with water ( see " Dennis the Menace " ) , covered in flour ( see " Dennis the Menace " a second time ) , and electrocuted ( see " Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York " ) . Not one of these instances is funny , and it isn't because we've seen it so many times before . And another thing that doesn't help this film at all is the inept direction of Michael Gottlieb . Such comedy , while once amusing in Home Alone , has long since worn out its welcome . Here , it's handled in such a pedestrian manner that it comes across with the audible clunk of a standup comic's joke falling flat . Don't see this movie , whatever you do . If you see it glaring at you in the video store with Hulk Hogan's god-awful smirk on his face , pass it up . Even if it looks like clean family entertainment . It is far from it . It is PG-13 material packaged in a sweet little box . It's not a film . It's merchandising , plain and simple . There used to be a time when wrestling and Hulk Hogan where what Tony Hawk and skateboarding are today to children . Anything with Hawk sells and , at one time , anything with Hogan sold . Film execs knew this , and played to it . And that's all " Mr . Nanny " is : Marketing , plain and simple . Don't give any more money to these selfish corporations . They can live with what they did . " Mr . Nanny " was a spur-of-the-moment film made for cash-purposes . I'm surprised that all copies weren't burned after Hogan withered away into the recesses of " has-been , " because this film stands out as a single merchandising attempt , and its time has long since passed . No stars ( ) - John Ulmer
Extremely poor , even by Lampoon's usual standards . All copies should be ritualistically burned .	Facts about National Lampoon Goes to the Movies , a . k . a . National Lampoon's Movie Madness : 1 . The movie is poor , even by Lampoon's typical standards . 2 . It's not funny . 3 . No one goes to see a movie . So , after I finished watching it , I began wondering why on earth it's called ' National Lampoon Goes to the Movies , ' and why it was ever conceived , much less actually made . It would be like calling Austin Powers ' An American Guy Goes to the Movies . ' How lame . He isn't American , and he doesn't go to movies . None of the characters in Lampoon's so-called ' satire ' are funny , and none go see movies , which causes a bit of a problem . I had hoped it would be something in the vein of Mystery Science Theater 3000 , but it isn't . This was National Lampoon's first film after Animal House , although you couldn't tell it from the quality of film . Poorly developed , rough and amateurish by any standard , it induces headaches ? not a good sign for an 89-minute movie that seems double the length . I've noticed a pattern . Really bad movies are typically renamed ? and this little disaster falls under that category . It has two separate titles - - probably to help try and promote it to people too stupid to remember how bad a panning it received from home video critics in . ' Hmm , Movie Madness ? I've never heard of this movie before ! Let's rent it ! ' And then , the realization : ' Hey , wait a minute , this is just National Lampoon Goes to the Movies ! ' It was shelved by MGM / UA , never to be released into theaters or DVD ; it occasionally pops up on television a few times per decade , which is just about the only place you'll manage to find it . It's split up into three stories ? a parody of self-enlargement videos , butter and corporate ruthlessness , and police brutality / cop-buddy films ( I guess ) . The first segment stars Peter Riegert ( Animal House ) as a frustrated guy who divorces his wife and does some other stuff . I'm not sure what because it was so boring my mind started to drift . Until the sex scene popped up . Part II is about an exotic dancer raped by a stick of butter ( don't ask ) who decides to become Queen of the Margarine so she can cut off the supply of dairy products . Ouch ! This contains the only funny line in the movie : ' Only I can make love with my son ! ' If you think that doesn't sound very funny , you're right ? it's not . And just imagine ? it's the highlight of this film ! Part III is about a cop who chases down a serial killer ( Christopher Lloyd ) only to lose his nerve and shoot the guy . It does contain one funny scene but it's extremely over-acted ? only Lloyd really exhibits any humor , playing his character dry and compassionate , yet strangely surreal . The part where he's choking his victim and the meek cop stands by watching it all unfold , at least , evoked a chuckle or two . It's a shame to watch such a cast of semi-famous names resort to low standards . The writers of each segment clearly believe that they're being very ironic and clever by spoofing so-called stereotypes ? the fault being that the movie becomes one huge contradiction , favoring the standard T & A instead of plot ; crude humor instead of witty dialogue ; desperate performances instead of inspired ones . It's easy to see that none of the actors were enthralled with the material , muttering their lines , often so embarrassed they can seldom make eye contact with the camera . The movie isn't funny , as I said before . I laughed once , at only one line , and even then it was a halfhearted one . Two chuckles , a smile , and a very weak laugh . Compared to Movie Madness , a number of other decent comedies seem like regular laugh tracks . I like National Lampoon's Vacation series ( or , at least three of four installments ) , and their classic Animal House , but their recent slew of direct-to-video bombs such as Golf Punks ( with that great comic genius Tom Arnold ) provide a good example of why their magazine went out of print more than a decade ago . It gets really old , really fast . Sad to see a new film , called Gold Diggers , is being released with their ' stamp of approval . ' It's like condemning a film before it even hits theaters ? maybe they should start not advertising their name all over the place ? Distributor : ' This movie is bad . It gets the National Lampoon stamp of approval . That'll teach you not to make something so awful next time . ' Forget the death penalty . Just stick a bunch of criminals in a room and make them watch this over and over every day for a month . It's so bad that I can't even begin to explain its putrid vileness . I give up .
Looking for a thriller ? DON'T GET THIS MOVIE ! ! !	This movie doesn't even pass off as a thriller . How John Travolta can keep making bad movies is beyond me ( Battlefield Earth , now this ? ) Travolta's acting was horrible in this , and Vince Vahn was way too blah blah blah-no voice pitches in his acting . I really don't know how this movie got passed by paramount as a thriller . It's the most predictable movie I've ever seen ( well , close enough anyway ) . Even Steve Buscemi's short role came in with no comedy , unlike all his other supporting roles ( he was great comedy relief in Con Air ) . If you want a good thriller go get something else . Don't even think about getting this movie . I give ' Domestic Disturbance ' stars ( only because there was one fun part , watching John Travolta tracking down and revealing who Vince Vahn's character really is ! )
One Of the Worst !	" McHale's Navy " is a mix between a Tom Arnold movie . . . a Tom Arnold movie . . . a Tom Arnold movie , and . . . hey ! Is Tom Arnold in this movie ? ! Yes , he is . Tom Arnold is McHale . Forget the plot . We've already got a reason that this movie's going to be stinky ! Rob Schneider and David Alan Grier try to help with their superior comic talent , but to no avail . G'bye , McHale ! Glad to see you burn at the box office ! stars - John Ulmer
Wild Wild Flop ( insert loud bass sounds here-BumBum-bum-bum )	Oh , really , how could anyone MAKE a film like this ? It has to be one of the worst films I've seen in a long , long time . Kevin Kline : you must be desperate . Will Smith : You too . stars - JOHN
Could have been funny .	I don't think I laughed once during this film . Though the actors and actresses are great , the script itself just fails to keep the audience entertained . Instead , if you like Danny DeVito , go rent THE BIG KAHUNA , TWINS , or something in that area . Just stay away from Drowning Mona unless you're an absolute fan of any of the actors involved . stars-JOHN ULMER
Kinda makes you wonder what the world would be like if it weren't for something called a trash can . . .	If you bought this movie , toss it away . It's horrible . Awful . Only so many words can describe it . The cast is all different save Gilbert Gottfried , who is " fried " in this movie , and a few others . But you can tell they've had enough of the Problem Child , and why they continue to make spin-offs of something that never was is beyond me . Two sequels and a television show . The first was kind of funny in a guilty pleasure way , but c'mon , enough is enough ! stars -
The worst of the series , and one of my least favorite sequels . Truly disastrous . No wonder Fincher and everyone associated with it has disowned it since its release . . .	In its complexity , " Alien3 " is a failed story . It's bleak , it's flawed , it's stupid . " Alien3 " is a sequel to two of the most memorable films of all time - - and it completely ruins the ending of its 1986 predecessor , " Aliens , " by killing off two of the lasting characters and entirely negating the emotional underpinning of the film . It practically scratches out the second movie with its mediocrity , and the fourth scratches out the first . In its simplicity , it sucks . If you recall the ending of the last film , Ellen Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) survived her encounters with an alien colony , along with the marine , Hicks ( Michael Biehn ) , and a young survivalist much like herself named Newt ( Carrie Henn ) . They were put into cryogenic sleep and all was well . The story ended happily and should have stayed that way . It was the ending we all loved . Now it's ruined . Ripley is picked up by a large space ship another number of years later . She is the only survivor . The spaceship suffered a malfunction . Hicks bled to death and Newt drowned in her cryo chamber . But Ripley believes that Newt may have been impregnated with a chestburster after finding traces of acid on the floor of the ship . That's a problem with this film . Everything's contrived . I was willing to believe that Ellen Ripley could and would encounter aliens once again in the film " Aliens " because the plot was strong , so any minor contrivances set up by James Cameron were not very noticeable . It was a very good sci-fi film , and the more I view it on the new Quadrilogy DVD , the more I grow to like it . Same with " Alien3 . " The new cut is better than the old one . But it's still an awful film - - so bad that everyone associated with it has only bad things to say about it . Even its director , David Fincher , has reportedly disowned the film . He claims that the film is not his , that FOX controlled every aspect of it . He was the only director on the entire Quadrilogy DVD collection to refuse a DVD commentary track recording . " Alien3 , " even with the superior extended version , still stinks to high heaven . Fincher can disown the film all he wants , but he still made it . The " Alien " series was always dark and brooding and somewhat disturbing , but this pushes the limit - - it's too dark , too brooding , too disturbing . The characters are extremely strange and weird ; Ellen Ripley is very different , and her new hairstyle - - no hair - - is just silly . This whole film is just too dark . Another problem ? There's nowhere to go after " Aliens . " In 1979 , " Alien " introduced the new face of horror a year after John Carpenter's " Halloween . " The two back-to-back slasher flicks were both very different and yet very similar . One took place in the future , one in the present . Both were films about killing creatures ( for Michael Myers is not a human ) . And so to change the genre , in 1986 James Cameron made the sequel an all-out combat film , preparing audiences for the change with the tagline , " This time it's war . " He wanted people to know that it wasn't " Alien . " It was " Aliens . " " Alien3 " is infamous for its awfulness . It is the movie no one wants to claim credit for . Not Fincher , not Hill , not the producers , and not even FOX , really . It made a lot of cash , but for the most part everyone hated it . Some die-hard fans enjoy it , but if you ask them , they'll always tell you that it's the worst of the series ( sometimes they choose " Alien Resurrection , " though ) . I'll tell you what : It's certainly my least favorite . I hate this movie . I literally find it painful to watch . And I wouldn't even call myself a huge fan of this series . But it bugs me when directors take liberties to kill off characters . The story of James Cameron's hatred for " Alien3 " is pretty well known . Some people say he needs to get over it . Now he's talking about making a sequel with Ridley and forgetting about the latter two sequels . I don't think this is a good idea ( forgetting the other two - - it would confuse audiences ) , but I don't blame him for despising " Alien3 " and often referencing it as an awful film in his interviews . Alien : Aliens : Alien3 : Alien Resurrection :
Van " Dammed " !	Van Damme . What else can I say ? Bill Goldberg . THERE WE GO . NOW we know this movie is going to be really horrible . I saw the first five minutes of this movie on TBS , knowing it would be bad . But not even I thought it would be THIS bad . The plot is awful , Van Damme is getting old ( finally ) , but unlike Arnold , his movies are as well . Forget this movie . Don't see it . Ever . I wouldn't even be paid to see this film . stars - at its heart lies a wonderful , action-packed thrill ride . Well , maybe not , but the marketers would sure like us to think so , wouldn't they ? John Ulmer
Stop this movie ! Or I'll shoot Sylvester Stallone .	" Stop or My Mom Will Shoot " is probably one of the most unintentionally funny films ever made . It's not just that it's bad - it's pathetic . Every time it tries to be witty or clever or smart it slips up . Sylvester Stallone plays Joe Bomowski ( I wonder of what ethnic background they want us to think he belongs to ? ? ) , a big city cop whose pesky little mother Tutti ( Estelle Getty ) comes to visit him and manages to single-handedly destroy his life . First she makes a mockery of his job by visiting the police after reporting herself to be a witness of a murder . Soon the pair - mother and son - are teaming up to track down a mother-killer and . . . oh yeah . . . in between we get loads of lame gags about how desperately aggravating mothers can be . This would have been a really great film - if it were three minutes long . The material is barely enough to sustain a " Saturday Night Live " skit - even then it would be aggravating . The plot is cutesy - so are all the gags , lines and characters . I felt like b-slapping Estelle Getty and you know there's something wrong when you want to beat up an old woman . The plot basically works like this , scene after scene : 1 . Annoying Mother Figure tries to control Son's life . 2 . Son is angry . He tells her he likes having his underwear strewn across the floor and likes to leave the seat up . 3 . Annoying Mother Figure tells him he'll never get a wife this way , and mentions his ex-girlfriend who left him . 4 . Son Figure rolls his eyes and says " Oh Mom , don't bring that up again . " 5 . Aggravating Mother Figure says a cute one-liner . 6 . Put-Upon Son looks put-upon . Repeat and rinse . Voila - one huge turd of a film . One of the quotes from the movie is , " His ass was grass , and I was the lawnmower . " I felt shame on the producers ' behalf that they even made Estelle Getty utter this line . It's really sad . It's utterly pathetic . Stallone was nominated for another Raspberry Award for his performance . Believe it or not he gives a GOOD performance . Really good . That's part of the problem - his above-average acting makes the film seem even more desperate . There's an argument between him and JoBeth Williams in one scene and his acting is really good ; it's convincing . But the rest of the film isn't . Stallone tried to have this banned from being released onto DVD and I believe he's succeeded so far . Rent it out on video or watch it on TV and see for yourself why it's his least favorite film he's made in a career of some pretty bad films .
Awful . . . Pathetic . . . Well , At Least It Wasn't Disappointing !	Shaq . Francis Capra . What's the worst that can happen when you join together a horrible basketball player and actor , and one of the worst child actors of the 90's ? Before you can say " kazaam , " you get " Kazaam , " a film that goes to show why such crucial elements as , say , actors and dialogue are important to a story . The screenplay is just plain bad , and the acting is even worse . The directing style is . . . well , I don't know , but it was really , really bad . And then , the film has the mandatory emotionally-controlling segments that have nothing whatsoever to do with the already pointless plot , like the whole divorced father piece . Priceless . Priceless as in so awful it has no price . Cut to the chase , and my sypnosis is this : DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE ! stars - John Ulmer
A dumb show with a failed potential	Before you judge my title , let me tell you why I said what I said . The show started off in 93 , and it was a hit . Teenagers couldn't relate to it though , because it was a pure 8-11 year old show . It dealt with the life of 11 year old Corey Matthews ( Ben Savage ) , and how he views the world . His best friend Shawn Hunter ( Rider Strong ) , accompanies him on the show as well . His school teacher / neighbor Mr . Feeny also gets involved with his life , and he always seems to learn lessons outside next to the wooden gate ( kind of like home improvement ) . As the episodes went on , so did his relationship with his crush Topanga , who he eventually gets married to . Once he was about 15 or so , the show had a dramatic change . It went from a little boy's perspective of the world , and his fantasies , to a high schoolers mind , filled with dating . . . breakups . . . and eventually marriage . Although I could more so relate to the older episodes , finding them also more funny , the show lost its little kids and attracted teenagers . The show at some parts even involved talk of sex , and other things . Like in one episode 4 people are making out on a couch ( corey's making out with topanga ) , and this other girl comes in with nothing but her almost see through underwear and top on , and starts dancing and rubbing dishes against her breasts talking sensuously about how she loves to , " wash the dishes " and starts to move the dish against her body downward . . . hint . . hint . . . . . . and the other girls make the boys leave so they can talk to the dancing girl . I was surprised to see this episode as a re-run on the Disney channel . I really don't like this show that much anymore , not that I ever really did . And I would only recommend the older episodes to young children . Teenagers can get more out of the latest episodes , but it was like they still expected to make it for little kids too . So the latest episodes are mixed with dumb things that teenagers wouldn't like , little kids would , but then switches to dating and sex ( for teenagers ) ? ? ? It's a very odd show and I would only give it 1 star out of 5 . I'm very glad this show ended two years ago and I think they should stop airing the re-runs .
Skate away from this'un .	Shoddy special effects combine with a shoddy story about a kid who gets a magical skateboard that can - get this - FLY ! A horrible attempt at children's entertainment turns into a giant promo for skateboards , horrible actors and the whole nine yards ( not the film , I mean the expression ) . Two thumbs down ! stars - John Ulmer
Pretty awful .	This awful , seemingly low-budget knock-off of " Superman " features Helen Slater as the titular character , fighting off evil Faye Dunaway and Peter O'Toole . The movie is about as fun as a root canal , which will give you a good indication of just how enjoyable it is . It was definitely a cash-in on " Superman's " success in 1978 , and the success of its sequels . However it lacks the solid style of " Superman " and is really , really low budget-y and cheap looking . I suppose this is just ample proof that there needed to be no " Supergirl " movie - - at least not one like this . The scenes with the " witch " still make me cringe . Please , this deserves to be on the low 100 . I absolutely hate it . It's even worse than " Superman IV . " Yes , I know that's saying a lot , but it is - - quite unfortunately - - true . P . S . I originally submitted this about two years ago but decided I'd revise a few of my sentences . I've gotten angry letters from the " Supergirl Cult of IMDb " giving me death threats telling me that it's an " under-appreciated slice of epic film-making on par with The Lord of the Rings and The Godfather . " I didn't like Lord of the Rings too much . Supergirl makes it look like the best film ever made . So , don't send me letters , and don't threaten me . If you think I'm wrong , write your own review .
Months later , and I'm still laughing	This movie is one of the most unintentionally bad action films ever put to film . Dolph Friggin ' Lundren with a Japanese accent is funny enough , but add really corny buddy-buddy action to the mix , an eccentric and over-the-top villain , a clichéd love interest subplot and one of the worst endings of all time , and you've got yourself quite the little suicide-inducing cure for people who enjoy their life and , up till watching " Showdown , " had never contemplated killing themselves with a blowtorch . I don't know if it's just me but the whole homosexual subtext is none too subtle . There are constant references to male genitalia , and not by females , either . Brandon Lee and Dolphin talk about each other's manly parts , and in fact before going on a suicide spree , Brandon says to Dolphy , " In case we don't make it , I want to tell you , you have the biggest d - - - I've ever seen . " Now , is this what a normal man would say to another man ? In an ACTION film no less ? And would you want those to be your _ dying words _ ? ? Later , there's this gem : Dolph ( regarding the villain ) : " I would like to cut off certain parts of his anatomy . " Brandon : " Man , you've got a fixation . " As the guy at RuthlessReviews . com pointed out , " Unfortunately , Dolph doesn't respond with , ' I've got a fixation ? I've got a fixation ? ! You're the one who decided that his last words should be about my privates ! I was just gonna chop of his ears and his nose , man . " This is relentlessly silly stuff and great fun if you're someone who enjoys receiving root canals from unlicensed dentists , without novocain . It's about on par . Great fun for the whole family !
A pathetic and insultingly childish fantasy set in reality	This film has been made dozens of times in other forms . This " Disney Original " idea is a complete laugh - if this is considered original , then I'm Abraham Lincoln . And I can't be Abraham Lincoln because I believe he is dead . Trevor Morgan ( you may remember him as the annoying kid from " Jurassic Park III " ) plays a complete nerd and mathematical genius who basically lives underneath a school ice hockey stadium . It is there that he constructs magical potions using science and math . However he realizes he's not exactly catching any ladies , so he adopts the persona of " Chaz " ( his real name is Charlie ) to woo the ladies - enrolling in school again and becoming a " bad boy " who talks back to teachers and looks " cool . " News flash : Kids stopped wearing Fonzie-style leather jackets to school in the 1960s . If anything , it's retro . It doesn't make you look cool . You don't gain instant respect by showing up at school with a leather jacket , a comb and a smirk and talking back to teachers . Today , in the age of gangsta rappas and emo , you would be laughed at and ridiculed . " Chaz " would become an instant outcast and his plan would backfire . But in " Genius " all the kids are friendly white suburbanite offspring and they love The Chaz . They fall victim to his evil ploy to get some girly-action and even the bad boys at school respect him . It would be kind of funny if it weren't so sad to actually think some Disney TV executive greenlit this and thought the concept of a 12-year-old high school graduate living in an underground lab who adapts a new persona of a leather-jacket wearing freak would be successful .
Awful , Horrible , Terrible , Wretched . . . Get the Point ?	This movie was surprisingly terrible . I knew it would be a bit bad , but this was awful . Paul Hogan's character Mick Dundee worked in the first film , but now he has long overstayed his welcome . The jokes are getting old , the routine repetitive , and the characters and dialogue are getting thin . This film could have been a refreshing satire on LA , and could have cleverly spoofed the film business . We caught a glimpse of this kind of rare humor during the backlot tour session . Unfortunately , not even that sequence was funny because ( wait for it ) THEY SHOWED IT ON THE TRAILER ! And then , the very end is completely thrown together in a haphazard way . I was confused - is the film taking itself serious or is it tongue-in-cheek ? Either way , the ending did not work for me . But needless to say , none of the other moments were memorable , and even the cameos can make up for how bad this trash was . Disappointing , Hogan , very disappointing . No wonder you've no more films lined up right now . stars - John Ulmer
I Didn't Laugh a Single Time . . .	" Beverly Hills Ninja " could have had good potential . It could have been " Crocodile Dundee " with a ninja . Unfortunately , thanks to the casting of Chris Farley , an awful script , and an untalented director , this film wallows in the laugh-free zone . Farley plays a ninja from Japan who comes to Beverly Hills looking for a woman named Sally Jones , who has requested help from The Fat One . But unfortunately for Farley , tracking down a blonde-haired woman in Beverly Hills is going to be harder than he ever imagined . After he ( finally ) tracks her down with the help of Joey ( equally unfunny comedian Chris Rock ) , he is led into a plot that seems put together by five-year-olds . The film obviously had no thought put into it at all . Chris Farley , Mr . Over the Top , is as unfunny as ever . Unlike John Candy - who he has been compared to - Farley is simply not funny . Candy used subtle comedy . Let's compare the two . . . For example , in " Beverly Hills Ninja , " Chris Farley goes through a security device at an airport . It beeps , and he instantly flails his arms about , screaming and yelling , punching the device . He them calms down realizing it is a machine . Before going through the device , we can see Farley waiting for his cue to slap the thing . You can see it in his eyes . He's just waiting to go out of control , screaming . And when he does so , it isn't funny . John Candy , on the other hand , is much funnier going through a security device . In " Who's Harry Crumb ? " - a bad comedy , but nevertheless one to compare to - Candy goes through a scanner and it beeps . He looks around innocently , and does the same thing Farley does without punching and screaming wildly at the device . There's something about the energy that Farley releases that makes me sick . It's worse than watching Jim Carrey and Robin Williams combined . He will suddenly go crazy , slapping and punching and running around . Then , the next moment , he's calm . And we can just see all the energy inside him - and it can't wait to release itself again . It's more obnoxious than anything . The script is pitifully unfunny . I didn't laugh a single time at any of the gags . It's a cheap excuse for getting Chris Farley to display his unwanted energy . Perhaps " Beverly Hills Ninja " seemed like a good idea before they filmed it , but it doesn't look so great on the celluloid , that's for sure . stars
Whodunit Twists-and-Turns Not Enough to Salvage a Weak Film . . .	Well , seeing that I'm in a picking-on-Christopher-Reeve mood right now , just coughing up a negative review on " Somewhere in Time , " I'll pick apart " Deathtrap " right now . Let me just note here that I saw this movie many years ago , and all I can remember is that I disliked it . Therefore , I may be a bit rusty on the plot summary . So I took a few words from IMDb's plot summary and modified it a bit . Clifford Anderson ( Christopher Reeve ) , is a student at one of Sidney Bruhl's ( Michael Caine's ) writing seminars , and has recently sent his mentor a copy of his first attempt at playwrighting for Sidney's review and advice . The play , " Deathtrap , " is a five character , two act thriller so perfect in its construction that , as Sidney says , " A gifted director couldn't even hurt it . " Using his penchant for plot , and out of his desperate desire to once again be the toast of Broadway , Sidney , along with Myra , his wife , cook up an almost unthinkable scheme : They'll lure the would-be playwright to the Bruhl home , kill him , and market the excellent script as Sidney's own . But shortly after Anderson arrives , it's clear that things are not what they seem , and Helga Ten Dorp , a nosey psychic from next door , and Porter Milgram , Sidney's attorney , can only speculate where the line between truth and deception lies . There are a bunch of twists and turns in " Deathtrap , " including Caine's wife being killed by him and what turns out to be Caine's gay lover , Christopher Reeve ( which serves as one of the most revolting scenes in film history when we see the two kiss - - I cringe at the thought ) . I forget why , exactly this is . I think it's because Caine decides to give his wife the jump by killing her , and then an unsuspecting Clifford so he can keep the play for his own instead of having to share . But , as things turn out , nothing goes well , because Reeve has some tricks up his sleeves as well . " Deathtrap " just seems to wander around a lot and not really go anywhere . Not only is it revolting , disgusting and just plain gross ( I could live my whole life without seeing Michael Caine kiss another man ) , it is disturbing , boring , and mediocre . It tries to be something it isn't , and that's one of the main flaws of the film . Sure , it takes a bunch of twists and turns - - I don't remember all of them anymore - - but that doesn't save a weak story or redeem something sickening . The jokes aren't funny , the mystery isn't there , and the thrills are all predictable . Sorry if you liked this film , but I just didn't . I didn't find it good at all . I tend to like twists-and-turns comedies / thrillers , but for some reason I get an eerie feeling watching this film , as I do with all of Christopher Reeve's films . There's something about Reeve that creeps me out . Anyway , " Deathtrap " was just a bit too odd and demented to be enjoyed . At least by me . stars - John Ulmer
Truly Awful . . . I Had a Hard Time Watching it . . .	" The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas " is one of the poorest excuses for a family film I've seen in a long time . The original remake with John Goodman was at least decent , but this flop has not only an awful cast , but awful dialogue , filming techniques , jokes . . . it's straight out of a made-for-TV sequel . Only one thing : It's even worse . In this live-action prequel to the 1994 comedy hit , Fred Flintstone ( Mark Addy ) and wife Wilma ( Kristen Johnston ) go to Rock Vegas along with the Rubbles , Barney ( Stephen Baldwin ) and Betty ( Jane Krakowski ) , where Wilma is pursued by playboy Chip Rockefeller ( Thomas Gibson ) . This is the setup for a bunch of tiring gags that also have to do with a little green space alien coming to earth to see how humans mate , or something as such . This has to be one of the worst comedies I've seen it a while . It was actually painful for me to watch . There really are no redeeming values whatsoever , and I don't think I'd like it even if I was a five-year-old . It treats the audience like dirt , and it obviously seeing if there's any juice left in the audience to pay for another " Flintstone " flick . Instead of trying to improve upon the first film - - which was a bit underrated - - this film seems to go for the bare minimum in an effort only to draw money from the audience . I have to ask myself , if they knew the first was so critically-declaimed , why release another awful flick ? Try to improve and get good reviews . But nope , no luck here . Instead we are treated to a truly awful and hard-to-watch comedy with no redeeming values whatsoever . Avoid at all costs . stars - - John Ulmer
Clever comment on Reaganism set in a galaxy of post-transformational liberalism .	Just kidding , I don't know what I'm talking about . You should see this movie if you like : 1 ) Sex 2 ) Nudity 3 ) Hot babes 4 ) Mickey Rourke 5 ) Carre Otis 6 ) Mickey Rourke and Carre Otis going at it for real 7 ) Perfume commercials 8 ) Directors trying to make their softcore porn look like art by filming everything sensually and in slow motion , so the film appears to be art-house and " visually stimulating " 9 ) Really , really , really bad dialogue10 ) Lots of good banging and screwing without a plot 11 ) Mickey Rourke playing a total pimp ( which is different than just Mickey Rourke - I mean , there's Mickey Rourke , and then there's Mickey Rourke the Pimp , which is even cooler ) . And finally . . . 12 ) Hot female characters who wear glasses and carry around clipboards so the audience believes they are smart and successful businesswomen , when in fact they'd have a hard time calculating 1 + 1 . ( Also see : Alone in the Dark , Tara Reid's character ; or Fantastic Four , Jessica Alba's . ) Highly recommended to the appropriate demographic . I could kill myself for buying it .
Not totally horrible ( I've seen much worse ) but still rather poor for a number of reasons	" Envy " is bad for a number of reasons . Yes , there are unlikeable characters . That's not the problem . It is that they are unlikeable and we do not care for them at all . " The War of the Roses " featured unlikeable characters but due to proper introductions we grew to at least find ourselves interested in their fate , whereas in " Envy " the introduction is thin , the characters are never believable , and the plot only makes things worse . Ben Stiller is simply repulsive in his role and I'm a fan of his work most of the time . Stiller campaigned to have this released straight-to-video and now I can see why . The movie proposes that he's " best friends " with Jack Black , but from the first five minutes we are given footage that seems to indicate Stiller hates Black . I thought this would develop into some sort of one-sided relationship ( a la " The Cable Guy " ) but it never does , instead Stiller insists he's his " best friend " and I felt confused as he seemed to treat Black like , well , " poo . " The movie's plot is ridiculous but it doesn't matter , because it's supposed to be an exaggerated morality tale . Unfortunately the message is lost in the mess . Walken gives a good performance but Black is off-key and annoying ( and I usually find him very funny ) . No , it's not a horrible film but I still can't believe Barry Levinson ( " Rain Man , " " Sleepers " ) is responsible for this - it's not one of the worst films of all time but it could certainly be a whole lot better . I wish Va-Poo-Rize did exist - so we could make this film disappear forever . . . .
A terrible film	" D3 : The Mighty Ducks " boasts Emilio Estevez's name all over the ads and credits - and I still remember when it came out how they even featured his name on TV commercials . But he's only in the film for perhaps five minutes . He agreed to make a cameo if Disney would fund his post-Vietnam film , " The War At Home , " and they did . But they really milked the $3 million for all its worth . The troop of Mighty Ducks return yet again and yet again they are the underdog . This time the kids are all a bit older and dealing with more mature subjects - including romance . Estevez provides counseling at a crucial moment in the film , but it just comes across as spontaneous and totally random . This is a terrible film - the first two were bad to begin with but this reeks of sequelitis . It's just there to make money , and the lousy cast , bad director and atrocious dialogue doesn't help any . Please , no " D4 . "
Terrible beyond belief	I've never been a huge fan of the original Alfred Hitchcock classic " The Birds , " but it was well-made annd compared to this looks totally flawless . " The Birds II : Land's End " has to be one of the most shoddily produced nightmare projects of all-time - - it's a gruesome , chilling ( but in a bad way ) made-for-TV movie with no suspense . That's always a bad thing when you're talking about a so-called " thriller . " No , " The Birds II " plays more like a modern-day gross-out slasher horror flick . A modern-day REMAKE of " The Birds " could work with a great director behind the project , but this sequel doesn't only feature one of the most untalented casts ever ( with Brad Johnson leading the pack along ) , but a director by the name of Rick Rosenthal , who has a couple " Halloween " movies to his name and a huge score of television shows and pilots . Now get this . " Halloween II " was crap , right ? And Rosenthal left his name in the credits . He called Alan Smithee on " The Birds II . " That shows just how unbelievably bad this film is . From the lacking suspense to the poor acting to the ridiculous dialogue to the terrible special effects to the borderline stupid plot line ( ooh Land's End , how clever ! ) , " The Birds II : Land's End " will rightly be remembered as one of the worst misfires of all-time .
So bad it's entertaining	This film is terrible . It's a continuation of the " Friday the 13th " series , which was supposed to have ended the year prior with the so-called " Final Chapter . " In this one , Jason is dead , so in order to resurrect his character we're stuck with an imitator who attacks a bunch of kids . John Shepherd follows in the footsteps of Corey Feldman by playing Tommy Jarvis . Strangely , he's aged about fifteen years , but the time period doesn't seem to have differed . Bad writing , perhaps ? According to IMDb trivia , the screenplay originally centered around Feldman , but he was contractually obligated to appear in other films , so they rewrote his character into an older version . Apparently someone forgot to change the time period to correspond with this . Tommy is in a mental institute now and has been transferred to a minimum security free-for-all looney bin where he's basically allowed to do whatever he wants and is given absolute freedom . He brings a pocketknife with him - it's never explained how he managed to sneak it out of a maximum security insane asylum to begin with . When the Jason imitator begins attacking nearby Tommy takes it upon himself to react . Blah , blah , blah . Oh , did I mention there's a really , really hot nurse who just happens to work there ? What a coincidence . I mean , it could have been some old ugly 80-year-old , but instead it's a Pamela Anderson lookalike . Interesting . This film is so bad it's entertaining ! The dialogue is atrocious and the acting is even worse . Shepherd is a hoot - he tries to convey all these emotions . It plays out like someone handed him an " Emotional Faces 101 " tutorial and he just furrowed his eyebrows a lot and appeared to be lost in reflection . Aye carumba ! Apart from the horrid acting there is the truly inept direction , the cheesy ' 80s music ( elevator music in a horror film ? ! ) and the cameo by Corey Feldman to ensure preteen females would be interested in seeing the film . The flashback is totally pointless but they manage to creep his smug face into the film anyway ! This is better than the last " Friday the 13th " because it's more entertaining - in a so-bad-it's-good kind of way . I'd hardly recommend it , but if you happen to be flipping channels one night and stumble upon it , it's quite a hoot .
Really , really bad . . . and dated . . .	I looked forward to this before the turn of the millenium , but it's nothing more than a silly cash-in on what was considered to be a possible fall of mankind - - not something to cash in one , folks ! But it does . I saw this on NBC , I think . Basically , the plot is what we all feared : computers fail , the world starts going awry . It's such a cheap film that I've always remembered a scene where two people kiss and you can see their spit dangling from mouth to mouth . Cheap , low budget , and not good at all . stars . What a disappointment . What a cash-in . - John Ulmer
Loud , trashy , exploitative and stupid .	The film opens with this hot chick stripping down completely nude and starting to take a bath . I thought , " Oh boy , here we go . " A few seconds later she hears something outside . She says , " Who's there ? " and runs outside the room ( scantily clad , mind you ) to see who it is . She's chased outside by a homicidal maniac and runs through the woods , her robe falling off and revealing more pointless nudity . Finally she lures the monster into a circle of gunfire from a SWAT team who finally manage to kill Jason ( apparently repetitive gunshots make him implode on impact ) . Then this balding man pats the half-naked girl - - who is now revealed to be a brainy cop - - on the back and says something like , " Good work , Sergeant , we'll get a promotion for you ! " Meanwhile she's standing around naked with only a robe . For a moment I thought to myself , " This is either going to be the worst movie ever made , or a clever parody of its predecessors . " I mean , either the whole nudity part with the female cop was just there for the sake of nudity , or it was a parody of the fact that every " Friday the 13th " movie has at least one scene of gratuitous female flesh . Unfortunately my first assumption was correct . This is an awful movie . It only gets worse and worse as time goes on . It's entertaining , sure , in a so-bad-it's-hilarious kind of way . The characters are all clichéd to the point of nausea and the killing scenes are so standard it's like doing a paint-by-numbers , it's already mapped out for you ahead of time . This isn't the worst film ever but it's certainly a very bad , cheesy , poorly acted , amateurish title in the " Jason " series and the fact that it was indeed NOT the last " Friday the 13th " film is rather ironic in itself .
One of the worst films ever made	I distinctly recall sitting down to watch " Carpool " at home ten years ago and being appalled within the first ten minutes by the film's insulting intelligence level . It stars David Paymer as an average Joe who transports a bunch of whiny kids back and forth in a daily carpool . However , one morning he picks up a stranger - or , more specifically , a criminal ( Tom Arnold ) who may or may not actually be such a bad guy after all . The movie is one of those incredibly lame " family movies " that is clearly designed for one target audience : infantile children who can't differentiate between quality and utter rubbish . This is , sadly , part of the latter category . I don't " hate " Tom Arnold for no good reason like some people out there seem to , but I don't like him very much ( he's only ever caught my interest in one movie before - " True Lies " ) and he's completely aggravating here in a role just about anyone else could have performed better ( except , perhaps , for Pauly Shore ) . Paymer is given the thankless role of a hapless , meek idiot who evidently attended too many Nice Guy Clichés 101 classes . Overall , you won't be neglecting yourself anything particularly special if you decide to skip this unfortunate little disaster .
It made me feel sick .	If a motion picture " comedy " about a boy with two stomachs whose flatulence only matches his immense weight sounds appealing to you , then by all means you will adore " Thunderpants . " Yes , " Thunderpants " is about an English child who has constant flatulence . The all-star sounded promising to me and that's the only reason I saw this in the first place - - Ned Beatty and Paul Giamatti even have small roles in the film ! - - but unfortunately their talents are pushed aside for corny , crude fart jokes . " Thunderpants " makes " Austin Powers ' " fart jokes look sophisticated . This movie beats the dead horse over and over - there are only so many times we can ( attempt to ) laugh because , hey , that kid leaves gas a lot ! " Oh my , that's so funny ! It's genius ! Farts are hilarious ! " I want to know who greenlit this project so I can carry a copy of " Thunderpants " to his or her house , strap them to a chair and force them to watch it 100 consecutive times , and see how much they enjoy the " humor " after that . An odd rarity in the children's film department , " Thunderpants " is clearly targeted towards the kiddies , but its content is quite adult in nature . Children swear throughout the movie ( our lead character uses profanity to describe portions of his anatomy ) and the subject matter in general is lewd and crude and I had to wonder what sort of parent would even allow their child to view something like this in the first place . It's a demeaning film with no laughs and a sick , twisted sense of humor that is both inappropriate for children and way too stupid for adults . One of the worst films in recent memory .
Samwise Gamgee tries to make a sweet short film with a message - - and fails horribly . . .	Sean Astin is a pretty good actor . I didn't like his work in The Lord of the Rings , but he was good in Rudy and The Goonies ( when he was a kid ) . Here , he tries to create a sweet short film with a message - - but fails miserably . It's not uplifting or sweet . It's just corny and dumb . Filmed on the set of The Lord of the Rings in New Zealand , you may catch a glimpse of Lord of the Rings directer Peter Jackson as the bus driver . Someone once said that Jackson's films are long and unruly , like his beard , whereas George Lucas's films are neat and smooth , like his own films . I don't know . But that Jackson sure does look like a slob . Boy , I'm going to get some angry Lord of the Rings fans after me for saying that .
Awful .	" Woo " is about a woman ( named , of all things , Woo ! ) who goes on a blind date with a guy who hasn't been with a woman in a long time . Woo has been through a lot with men and gets the feeling this new guy just wants one thing , so she leads him on a series of late-night adventures a la Scorsese's " After Hours . " This movie is L-A-M-E lame . It's packed with all sorts of awful dialogue , poor performances , racial stereotypes ( including the big fat black woman who waves her finger at everyone and finishes every sentence with the word " girlfriend " ) and so on and so forth . Nowadays it's best remembered for starring Jada Pinkett ( Smith ) , wife of Will Smith . Her performance isn't that good and it's hard to believe they based an entire movie - - including the TITLE ! - - on her character . Overall this is poor , stupid , ( intellectually ) offensive and insulting , clichéd , stereotypical and worse than all that : uninteresting ! It's not entertaining , it's not funny , it's just dumb and annoying . Not even worth watching on TV .
Extremely poor , manipulative " comedy " - full of problems	I had looked forward to JACK when it first came out back in 1996 . I remember renting it when it reached video and being severely disappointed . Williams , first of all , is good at channeling a child - we all know that already . The problem lies in the film's schmaltzy , good-natured , sugar-coated outer layer that is sickeningly fake and annoying . Coppola hasn't really made a good movie I can think of ( or , a good movie worth remembering at least ) since THE GODFATHER PART III ( and not many will even agree with me on that choice ! Some might go as far back as APOCALYPSE NOW in ' 79 ) . It's disappointing to see him resorting to the hack-job he does here - ANYONE could have directed this movie . I never , ever - in a million years - would have suspected it was the product of Francis Ford Coppola . The movie's ending is " feel-good " - but not in a good way . Instead , when it's over , you feel as if you've just watched a 2-hour soap opera spliced with moments of awkward comedy . The plot would be great for a silly comedy ; unfortunately , Coppola turns his movie into some sort of half-cocked drama / epic-wannabe . Simply put , it isn't .
One Of Crichton's Lesser Novels ; One Of the Lesser Crichton Films	" Congo " is based on the best-selling novel by Michael Crichton , which I thought lacked Crichton's usual charm , smart characters and punch . Well , sorry to say , but the same goes for the film . Here's the plot : Greed is bad , this simple morality tale cautions . A megalomaniacal C . E . O . ( Joe Don Baker ) sends his son into the dangerous African Congo on a quest for a source of diamonds large enough and pure enough to function as powerful laser communications transmitter ( or is it laser weapons ? ) . When contact is lost with his son and the team , his daughter-in-law ( Laura Linney ) , a former CIA operative and computer-freak , is sent after them . On her quest , she is accompanied by gee-whiz gadgetry and a few eccentric characters ( including a mercenary ( Ernie Hudson ) , a researcher with a talking gorilla ( Dylan Walsh ) , and a a nutty Indiana-Jones-type looking for King Solomon's Mines ( Tim Curry ) . After some narrow escapes from surface-to-air missiles and some African wildlife , they all discover that often what we most want turns out to be the source of our downfall . The actors in this movie were not talented . Dylan Walsh acts like a pathetic crybaby , especially at the end ; Ernie Hudson is unconvincing ( is it no wonder he went on to star in TV films ? ) and Laura Linney is nothing special . I think I can safely say the only talented actors in this film had very small roles : Joe Don Baker and Tim Curry , an always enjoyable actor ( although sometimes scarred for life by constantly being reminded of his " Rocky Horror Picture " days ) . This movie also had some other problems , including awful direction style , cheesy dialogue and a just-plain-boring plot , which was completely hashed when compared to Crichton's novel . Not even Stan Winston's creature effects could save this movie from being a disaster . I am deeply disappointed in this movie ; there was not even a campy quality to redeem itself with . It was just plain awful , cheesy , boring and ridiculous , and proves to be one of the worst Crichton book-to-film productions . stars - John Ulmer
" Intolerable Cruelty " is a surprisingly aptly named film that offers nothing but multiple glances at one's watch and some restless shifting . It may not be cruel , but it's pretty damn intolerable .	So I sit there for the first half hour , waiting for it to get better , until the film starts to gradually become even worse . Is this possible ? I wonder to myself . Have the Coen Brothers - - Ethan and Joel - - made yet another bad movie ? To say that they haven't made a good movie since " Fargo " may not be true in some viewers ' opinions . Many people enjoyed " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " and " The Man Who Wasn't There . " Although I thought that these two films were well made and distinctive , they were also both rather empty and dry - - a bit too cold and occasionally stupid for my own liking . And both " O Brother " and " The Man Who Wasn't There " substantially fall downhill in the third - - and final - - act . After " Intolerable Cruelty " was over I talked to the projectionist for a few moments on my way out . She said that she is a big Coen Brothers fan , but that she thinks they should stick to what they're best at . We both found the occasional moment of " Intolerable Cruelty " sporadically amusing , but I didn't laugh out loud a single time at this film - - which is a bad sign for a near-two-hour comedy that thinks it is very clever but really isn't . It is as if the movie believes itself to be as smart as " Fargo . " It just isn't . If I'm not mistaken , this is the first film from the Coen Brothers that was not essentially their sole idea in the first place . It is as though the Coens have co-ownership of the film ; Brian Grazer co-produced , the script was written by two other individuals ( along with the Coens ) , and all the flair and quirkiness of the earlier Coen outings - - such as " The Hudsucker Proxy " - - is practically invisible here . What a mess . Just when I thought George Clooney was starting to grow on me in a less-than-literal way , he turns out one of the most over-the-top performances in the history of film . He is Miles Massey , a hotshot divorce attorney who has a strange fetish about clean , white teeth . Clooney presents Miles the way he should be at first , but soon he becomes too silly to take seriously . It seems as though Clooney thought he was acting in some type of slapstick Farrelly Brothers movie here - - whereas he was over-the-top in " O Brother , " yet still seemed real , here he just seems like a dull sort of caricature of a lawyer - - not really a pun on attorneys , not really a pun on humans , just an in-between shell of some strange creature whose eyes bulge open all the time , and whose voice takes high pitches to accentuate certain adjectives and verbs . It's like a sort of unlikable " Saturday Night Live " character stretched out for a feature-length film - - minus the laughs of something such as " The Blues Brothers . " Sometimes I enjoyed Clooney's performance , and sometimes I found his casual performance refreshing . . . but more often than not he annoyed me , and I saw him as some type of very weird character . Have you ever seen " Clifford " ? He's like Martin Short's title character mixed with a pinch of the egotistical flair of Clooney himself . Disturbing , to say the least . Catherine Zeta-Jones does little but pose cleavage for the camera here - - she walks around in short , tight leather pants and makes subtle innuendos . ( Zeta-Jones : " I'm going to mount his behind on a wall and throw darts at it . " Clooney : " I'm still looking for a behind to mount . " Zeta-Jones : " Don't look at mine . " ) To be fair , she plays her evil character with the sort of touch it deserves - - but the ending is so silly and ridiculous that it made me feel cheated . Zeta-Jones , you see , is a sort of black widow - - she marries stupid rich men , divorces them , then takes all their money . But this time it hasn't worked , because her husband's ( Edward Herrmann ) attorney is Miles , who proves that her intention was to take his cash from the start . Even her evidence of his affair ( caught on tape by Cedric the Enterainer , who has a funny slogan ) is little enough to prove her innocence . So she decides to go after Miles himself - - marry him , take his money , and run away . It's a complicated mess but soon she finds herself truly falling in love with him . Well , that's the sort of plot summary I read about , anyway . The first paragraph I described was true . The second is not . There is no gradual love that forms between the two leads as their relationship goes on . The film staggers onwards for close to an hour and a half until they finally get married , and then she suddenly divorces him and is out the door . Then we get the typical ending that I need not delve into . You just have to see it for yourself to laugh at its sheer stupidity . I sincerely hope that the Coen Brothers didn't intend any audience to take such a contrived film seriously ? What we had here was great potential for an irreverent romantic comedy with smart dialogue , witty ideas and good central performances by arguably two of Hollywood's hottest sex symbols . Instead we get a slapstick farce that is as utterly stupid as it is unfunny , and as painfully long as it is boring . What went wrong ? I expected something much different from " Intolerable Cruelty . " I thought it would be a darker , funnier , more serious comedy . At first it was partially serious . Then it just fell away into a pit of silliness - - and the rest of the film is a further stumble downhill . Alice has fallen down the rabbit hole and the Coen Brothers are going after her . " Intolerable Cruelty " is a surprisingly aptly named film that offers nothing but multiple glances at one's watch and some restless shifting . It may not be cruel , but it's pretty damn intolerable . stars . - John Ulmer
Harry Potter and the Dumbest of Sequels	" Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " is an ultra-long , boring mess of a movie . Of course , like all movies of its kind , it has a huge cult following . Living in the UK , it's even more popular than in the States , where I first experienced its major influence . The books by J . K . Rowling made " children read again . " So the next logical course of action is inevitably to make a huge-budget movie adaptation and therefore eliminate all advancements made in literature . What's that ? Kids are starting to read again ? Then why don't we make a two-and-a-half-hour-long movie , in seven parts , that will negate this and cause them to start watching TV again ? The first " Harry Potter " movie ( subtitled " And the Sorcerer's Stone , " or " The Philosopher's Stone " if you live in Britain ) was OK , but rather predictable , not to mention utterly silly and far too long . I give kudos to Rowling for managing to totally rip off Roald Dahl's unique style of storytelling without crediting him at all . I'll even thank her for managing to make a book that pretends to take place in reality , yet abandons all reasonable concepts of life ( such as . . . how in the world do you get a job as an honor graduate of Wizard School ? ) . Heck , I'll even smile at the thought that she's managed to turn the image of sorcerers , witches , and such evil , into a pleasant little happy-go-lucky book that thins the line between Good and Bad . Christian fundamentalist groups originally held anti-Harry Potter ceremonies after the initial novel and film's release a few years ago . The media acted as if they were crazy . Okay , maybe they went a little overboard . But it's not like Rowling is treading on quaint , cheerful material here . The main character , Harry Potter , goes to a school named Hogwarts ( get it ? ) , where children learn the arts of Witchcraft and Wizardry . They recite little lines of evil dialogue that make spells happen . This is treated all rather calmly and gentile . . . but of course what Rowling ( who used to dabble in a bit of black magic herself , and was on the verge of suicide before the idea for Harry Potter " popped into " her head ) is doing is quite clear : She's blurring the lines of decency . One baby step at a time . It sounds silly , doesn't it ? Maybe . But regardless , " Harry Potter " itself is a tremendously boring movie . It's devoid of any imagination . " Labyrinth , " which it seems to borrow its style from , is far superior and far more unique . The movie is about a poor sap that is knocked down in real life ( maybe because he wears the most dorky glasses in the world ? ) and therefore takes comfort in knowing that he is the last savior of mankind . What a minute . . . that sounds like " The Matrix " . . . actually this is about something totally different , but I've lost my train of thought . Watching this movie will do that to you . Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) , now in his second year at Hogwarts , is faced with the reality that recent student paralysis may be attributed to a dark lord who killed his parents and gave him a lightning bolt scar across his forehead ( which mysteriously disappears between shots ) . Soon Harry finds out that his life is in danger and he may be . . . well . . . in danger ! No duh . Okay , this might have made a rather good 90-minute movie . " Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " is about 150 minutes long . I saw it in the theater when it was released two years ago and almost fell asleep . I thought I was the only one until one of my friends nudged my and said , " This is the most boring movie I've ever seen . " Interestingly enough , all the individuals who seemed to enjoy the movie in the theater were little kids all hyper on sugar-packed Coca-Cola , running around the theater screaming , " Harry Potter ! " Of course no one ran around the theater but I started imagining how funny it would be if . . . Where was I ? The movie was directed by Christopher Columbus , who sailed to America in 1492 . Of course in 1942 " Casablanca " was released , which didn't star Columbus , or any of his relatives . Which reminds me : It's a much better movie ; go see it instead of this . And of course I'm not talking about the Christopher Columbus , but rather Chris Columbus , who is the writer of " Gremlins " and who directed the John Hughes-scripted " Home Alone . " Columbus was very good during the ' 80s and early ' 90s , but it seems he's lost his sense of utter imagination that he used to have . " Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " might have made a good 90-minute kiddie movie . As a 2 . 5-hour movie , it's almost unbearable . Let's hope the new installment - which is rumored to be more " adult " if that is at all possible - is better . I'd rather be thrown into a gas chamber than have to see this " Chamber " again . I'd even rather watch " The Chamber " with Chris O'Donnell . Am I rambling ?
Wait , what's that sound ? It's Sly Stallone's career going down the drain ! ( Minor Spoilers )	Driven may be worth watching once for race car sequences ( even if most are CGI ) , but other than that-thbbbpthh ! It's an outrageous film , that has the most ridiculous sequences ever ( In a race track , a fellow racer , or ' sworn enemy ' car flips off the track into a pond or something , and the other guy ( who of course hates the others guts ) stops his car , gets out , and saves him before-guess what ? KABOOM ! ) And of course then the sworn enemies become best friends . Wow , I wasn't expecting that ! I mean the movie's just ridiculous , and this is just one more step for Stallone for his career to dissipate into oblivion . stars-I RECOMMEND IT ONLY FOR SOME GOOD CAR SEQUENCES ! TOO BAD MOST ARE FAKE THOUGH ! JOHN ULMER
Even Pauly Shore's reality shows are a failure .	First things first - this is barely real at all . It's classified as a " reality TV program " when in fact Pauly Shore himself admitted a great deal of it is written because he is bored by reality TV . I hate reality TV too . But then don't create a sitcom and pass it off as a reality show ! I can understand the concept looking cool on paper - having a sitcom in the format of reality , shocking viewers - but that's been done before with " The Office " and " Minding the Store " is just a poor man's version . Essentially Pauly , the once-famous " comedian " from the ' 80s , inherits the " world famous " Comedy Shop from his mother and takes on the financial aspects . Of interesting note is that Pauly has grown up . He's older . He's put on weight . He's going bald . He generally looks . . . normal . He's no longer the skinny babe magnet he was in the ' 80s ( well , he was never a babe magnet I guess , but girls liked him anyway - we might never know why ) . This physical transformation alone isn't enough . Pauly's attitude hasn't changed at all . He's still annoying , still dumb , still unfunny . The show details his early life in the opening credits - he grew up in a family of comedians and was raised in the Comedy Store , around many famous stand-ups . There was just something in his blood , I think , that wasn't right for comedy . He felt obligated to become a comedian but it wasn't natural for him . As a result he achieved brief success on account of his background but the natural instinct for humor was never there ; he had to work hard for whatever jokes he landed , whereas a naturally gifted comedian might be able to succeed brilliantly by growing up in such an environment . I digress . At the end of the day Pauly still hasn't learned his lesson . This show is fake , unfunny , scripted , annoying , and stupid . I was willing to give Pauly Shore another chance , and I've found he's just as annoying and whiny as he was in the ' 80s and ' 90s . Grow up , Pauly . Lose the stoner voice . Get some class . Get some good jokes . Try again .
Worse than I remember it being	I saw this when it came out in theaters back in 1996 . I remember I was already familiar with Elijah Wood's work ( that's right , he made stuff before " Lord of the Rings " ! ) and the merchandising tie-ins to the film were pretty abundant ( " Flipper " water guns were even circulating ) . Adults were reminded of the old movies and TV show and for nostalgia's sake took their kids to see it , who were excited because it was a movie about a dolphin and a stupid boy . Unfortunately it wasn't what anyone expected and flopped severely . You know a movie's in trouble when a boy swims away from a Hammerhead shark in the middle of the ocean , and a pack of dolphins scare the shark away , and the kid - - instead of getting out of the water into a boat - - floats in the water for five minutes thanking his dolphin for saving him . . . apparently he hasn't taken into mind that the shark is still out there , perhaps even below him . Another problem is Paul Hogan . He looks old , crusty and tired of recycling his Croc Dundee shtick . By now , no one even remembered " Crocodile Dundee " much less Hogan , and I half expected him to suddenly start pretending he didn't know what a hair dryer was for the sake of fish-out-of-water / social-satire laughs . All in all this is a really poor " family " movie that is amateurish and almost hard to watch at times . I hated it when I saw it in theaters back in ' 96 and I hate it more now .
Worse than the first - if that's possible !	" 3 Men and a Baby " was one of the highest-grossing films of the 1980s and made Steve Guttenberg a star ( yech ) yet again . He gave a remarkable performance in Barry Levinson's " Diner " - then he resorted to kiddie trash like these films . If you liked the first , you'll probably like this . It's more of the same - three klutzes taking care of a baby ( now a young girl ) go through tough times trying to adjust . Here , they try to keep her mother away from marrying some bad evil guy . Woefully painful ( and offensive ) British stereotypes are made and the jokes are intolerable . This is one of the best cases of a franchise cash-in - a surprising little gem is found ( albeit a pretty poor one ) by audiences , makes millions of dollars , and studio bosses who didn't want to make the original in the first place jump on the bandwagon and start investing money into a sequel - which flops and ruins the reputation of the first . ( Also see " Ocean's Twelve , " which is currently receiving negative reviews and turning off fans of the original . Yikes ! )
Hilariously bad	" At the Earth's Core " was on television yesterday . I was at my computer working and happened to glance over and see what must have been some of the worst action sequences ever made . I was instantly enthralled by the film's shoddy production values , appalling acting ( by all included - - even Peter Cushing ) and horrific , unintentionally hilarious action sequences and puppet-monsters . The film is about a Victorian scientist who takes a stereotypical Buff American Hero on a ground-boring trip in the Welsh countryside . Little do they know that a great evil lurks at the center of the earth's core . . . . Forget the fact that the title doesn't make sense . ( If they were really at the earth's core , they'd be about 2700 kg / m3 underground and burning alive in a sea of iron or whatever it is down there . ) Forget that the puppets used in the production rival " The Beast Master " for being the fakest-looking of all-time . No , the real genius of " At the Earth's Core " is its naive stupidity - - a gung-ho action spectacle without real action and without real spectacle . It is in essence just a gung-ho movie and a stupid one at that . People who enjoy MST3K-style stuff will love this - - it's appallingly bad , and indeed so bad it is almost enjoyable in a strange way .
Bad , bad , bad . . .	Horrible , corny Disney-style " family comedy " about a notorious criminal ( Jack Palance ) who moves in with family man Chevy Chase and , eventually , causes a whole lot of trouble . Very predictable and unfunny scenes occur in which there are some bad bonding moments and silly exchanges of dialogue . Chase and Palance don't blend well together , and they're hardly the next Riggs and Murtaugh . . .
Sigh .	Plot summary : Big man with machete kills people . Cannot be killed because he is already dead . Seeks revenge on the camp counselers who let him drown as a child . Wants to avenge his mother's death . Add : Annoying kid actor ( Corey Feldman ) who outsmarts Jason . Gratuitous : Sex , nudity , violence , bad acting . Final product : Even worse than the first . This was supposed to be the " last chapter " but , ironically , it was followed by about a gazillion more entries . This is one of the worst . It's just Jason going around swinging a machete at people . I truly don't understand the success of these films - doesn't anyone else get bored by this crap ? ?
Starts off as a stupid but entertaining film , soon devolves into a painful experience	" Thir13en Ghosts " has to be one of the worst films of the decade thus far and is certainly one of the most unbearable . Admittedly it starts off as a dumb-yet-entertaining horror flick but midway through it turns into an utter disaster and actually becomes painful to watch . Take ( specifically two ) scenery-chewing actors , place them in a movie with a truly laughable plot and see who comes out unscathed . In fact the plot for " Ghosts " is sort of interesting and with a better director , cast and scriptwriter it really could have been developed into a terror-masterpiece , but due to the director deciding to make his film into a schlock horror slasher flick with constant camera cuts and an indecipherable plot , it becomes nothing but garbage . It really is a terrible , terrible film on almost every level - acting , directing , writing , etc . Perhaps the only good thing is the set design but then again since the director is always so busy trying to twirl and cut us around from scene to scene we rarely get a chance to breathe it all in . Bash Paul W . S . Anderson all you want , at least " Resident Evil " managed to make more sense than this zombie-ghost movie ! ( And since when do flares scare off ghosts anyway ? Don't ask . )
It's not even fun to watch and make fun of .	Some of the hatred for this film has been exaggerated . Sometimes people like to have something to rag on no matter what - right now , for the Internet film community , it seems to be Uwe Boll - and judging from quotes I've read by him , as well as movies I've seen , he deserves a lot of it . But some of the hatred goes too far . " BloodRayne " was already on the IMDb Low 100 before it even really got launched into theaters . I'll give you an example of the exaggeration regarding this film : One critic I read claimed the opening narration went on for nearly ten minutes , however it lasts perhaps a minute at the most . The dialogue is pretty bad , and the beginning with Christian Slater telling a young child on a plane that his mother is wrong about being afraid of the dark is unintentionally hilarious . There are other gems such as , " Looks like a dead end up ahead . I better take a look . " Or how about Tara Reid - a supposed archaeologist ( hah ! ) - referring to Newfoundland as " New Found Land . " I read here on IMDb that Reid was invited on Jay Leno and wasn't even able to give a definition of her profession in the film . Christian Slater I pretty much just felt sorry for throughout the film - he's such a good actor and his resorting to crap like this and " Hollow Man 2 " is a real shame . I am still hoping he makes a comeback . For what it's worth his performance here actually rises above the laughable material . The special effects are pretty bad , but once again not nearly as bad as I was expecting after reading some message board posts here . Overall I was expecting something so bad I would have a fun time laughing at it . Unfortunately this film is not laugh-out-loud bad , it's just plain BAD . It's not the worst film ever made - it's not on par with Ed Wood - it is actually just equivalent to most Z-grade straight-to-video flicks out there . If Boll's name had not been attached to the project and it hadn't attracted a theatrical run , I'm sure it would have a slightly higher rating on here and less of a " fan base " so to speak . I'm not supporting the film or saying it's remotely good - it isn't - but I am saying it's about as bad as any other straight-to-video horror garbage . I wouldn't recommend it because I didn't even have a fun time watching it for giggles - it's just a really lame film that takes itself way too seriously and perhaps its only positive attribute is that it has some amount of ( admittedly ripped-off ) style .
Is William Shatner the baby ?	First things first : There's no baby in this movie , and it's not about a babysitter . So why did they call it " The Babysitter " ? I don't know . Because of the drugs the cast and crew were taking , maybe ? ( I suspect acid , but maybe downers , just to ease the pain of knowing they were starring in such an awful movie . ) It's about a family torn apart by a ruthless housesitter with a secretive past . Yes , a HOUSEsitter . Not a BABYsitter . Unless a balding , wig-wearing Will " I Used to Be Famous , Look at Me Now " Shatner counts as a big blubbering baby . He certainly acts like one in this movie . So either it's a smart satire with a self-referential title . . . or the writer just forgot that it's not about any babies . Or babysitters . ( I just can't stress this fact enough ! ) The housesitter is a sexy 18-year-old seductress , a bit like Drew Barrymore in " Poison Ivy , " only not quite as demented . She tries to seduce William Shatner , and he refuses her advances after she pokes fun at him a little bit . Aww , poor baby ! ( FYI , I wouldn't have cared if she called me scum of the earth ! ) The Hungarian director Peter Medak has a resume filled with TV movies and television shows . After seeing this it's not surprising he hasn't been able to graduate to the big screen successfully yet . The characters are lame and underdeveloped , the plot is all over the place ; scenes lack cohesion and seem to jump back and forth with no real point . I . e . we'll be watching William Shatner talking to some guy and suddenly - whoa ! We're in a house ! And then we're back to William Shatner ! And now we're staring at a cow in a green pasture ! ( Oh wait , it's just William Shatner . ) Don't bother with this . It isn't worth the time .
Sandler's films are at least usually amusing , and / or sporadically funny ( sometimes hysterial ) - - this is just pure crap .	One word describes Little Nicky : sophomoric . This movie has great ( or at least good ) potential as a comedy ? but is ruined by a grating lead performance , poor scriptwriting , and increasingly lame jokes . Worst of all , however , is the totally inept direction ? had the film been delivered to better talent , it could have easily been Adam Sandler's best comedy . It's one of his worst , simply because the amateur handling is similar to that of worse duds like Battlefield Earth . Sandler's Billy Madison wasn't anything special but at least it was adequately made . No faults in the cast . With performances and cameos including Patricia Arquette , Harvey Keitel , Quentin Tarantino , Rodney Dangerfield , Dana Carvey , Jon Lovitz , Reese Witherspoon , Henry Winkler , Ozzy Osbourne , Rob Schneider , Michael McKean , Robert Smigel , Regis Philbin and Carl Weathers , the film's flaw is its script ? the talented actors are required to mutter extremely contrived dialogue , and most of the time they do so quite embarrassingly . Watching Keitel is painful ? he's not even trying . You know you're in trouble when a film's best performance is by Quentin Tarantino ? in this case , as a blind preacher who has a habit of injuring himself ( every time we see him it's a new brace , bandage , etc . ) . The plot is basically this : titular character ' Little ' Nicky ( Sandler ) is the son of Lucifer ( Keitel ) , whose other two sons leave hell in search of fun ' up north ' in New York City . Their journey magically breaks the gates of hell , or something , and as a result this causes the Devil to wither away . Nicky is left as the only possible source of salvation , having to travel north , bring his evil brothers back and save his dying father ( how does someone in hell die ? Don't ask me . ) . The movie has a few clever gags for movie buffs ? Elephant Man and Scarface references being the best , if not very subtle . The film's problem is that it quickly runs out of steam ? it's a one-trick pony and is only able to sustain its screwball antics for so long until it becomes a chore to sit through . One thing I have to give credit to Sandler for is that , although his comedies may not be perfect , most of the time they are somewhat amusing and aren't as commercially sloppy as Little Nicky . By that , I mean that this movie is a by-the-numbers Hollywood product ? it moves from Point A to Point B to Point C , introducing all the typical clichés of the genre . Sandler's comedies have always been weak in terms of romantic subplots ? the tacked-on relationship in Happy Gilmore was laughable , and Madison's was even worse . Didn't matter much because the films relied on jokes . Not here . Jokes are rare . The romantic subplot is the worst so far in any of his films ? I felt sorry for Arquette , and I was disturbed by how shallow her character was written . ( She meets Nicky ? a muttering , mumbling , evil idiot ? in New York , treats him nice , goes out on a date , and then he swears at her and makes obscene gestures and tells her that he's the spawn of Satan and she gives a cute smile and goes on a magical Satan-powered flight across the city with him . Absolutely pathetic . ) Characters are handled as throwaways ? Dangerfield's potentially-hilarious performance is watered down and never given full opportunity , showing up once and a while to add a few laughs to a flat sequence . Keitel's performance is weak and Sandler has once again created a grating voice ? Little Nicky sounds just like his geeky character from SNL who would show up on Weekend Updates to give music reports . A better comedian might really find a character to play underneath the surface ? Sandler isn't able to because , to be fair , he isn't much of a comedian . As a result his performance is painfully blunt ? about as subtle as a hammer over the head . Instead of playing a wacky , annoying person in his next movie , why doesn't he just play himself ? That's what he's always been good at . There's a reason Happy Gilmore is still his best comedy , and Punch-Drunk Love was so great . The gratuitous cameos become almost as annoying as the constant merchandising tie-ins and references ( I counted Coca-Cola , Pepsi , Popeye's Chicken , and the television show Felicity , not to mention the rock soundtrack that cuts back and forth to one song after another without using them to any real advantage ) . The cameos ? That's Chubbs Peterson from Happy Gilmore ( ' It's all in the hips ! ' ) and Henry Winkler , apparently not reprising his role as the coach from The Waterboy . Those two were fun enough , but the Rob Schneider reprisal is lame ? having the same character show up time and time again to say the same thing ( ' You can do it ! ' ) isn't clever if he's annoying to begin with . The movie is one big Adam Sandler Celebration ? it references Gilmore , Madison , Waterboy , and even lines from the films ( having said ' It's all in the hips ! ' about three times ) . Then there's the inclusion of characters from Sandler's music CDs ? mainly Whitey the Coach , who is played by Dana Carvey , and who was later voiced by Sandler in the animated flop 8 Crazy Nights . All in all the movie tries to be a number of different things and becomes absolutely nothing at all . It wants to be a social and religious satire but is content to stay within the PG-13 guidelines , so it never becomes as raunchy or funny or downright refreshing as Dogma . Kevin Smith is a daring director and is capable of extending the craziest of material into something clever . Steven Brill , the director of Little Nicky , is considerably less talented and as a result his movie ? which similarly moves towards an apocalyptic ending a la Dogma ? becomes a complete and under mess , totally predictable and stupid . Little Nicky is a big disappointment .
Am I missing something here ?	When I saw the ads for " Blades of Glory , " I knew what to expect - another funny satire from the Frat Pack lads that wouldn't be anything great but would be filled with some good slapstick and at least have a handful of memorable gags . Well , I was wrong . Although the approach is similar to comedies such as " Talladega Nights " and " Dodgeball , " it's definitely the worst film I've seen so far of the " Frat Pack " series of films . It just isn't funny . The problem is that the film is largely a one-joke premise . And it's poking fun at something that is more obvious than something like NASCAR or unpopular like the game of dodgeball - figure skating is such an easy thing to lampoon , but after five minutes of sight gags and jabs at the sexuality of the sport , where is there to go ? A plot is formed : Will Ferrell is a bad-boy figure skater who , taking advantage of a legal loophole , joins forces with Jon Heder's androgynous super-skater to win the gold medal . Will Arnett and Amy Poehler play a brother-sister duo who become the mandatory Evil Overachievers and attempt to destroy the two skaters by having their sister ( Jenna Fischer ) go " undercovers " and break up the two men's relationship on the ice . The plot is weak , and the movie knows it's weak , but that's not much of an excuse when your material isn't funny . I once loved Will Ferrell but I've quickly grown tired of him now - his shtick is becoming tiresome . At least Ben Stiller knows how to change various elements of his performances and can create something very funny like White Goodman in " Dodgeball " - but Ferrell is just playing the same shtick here that he's been doing for his last few films : an arrogant buffoon who squints his eyes a lot while acting dramatic , yells at people , and says stupid things that he doesn't realize are stupid while keeping a straight face . It was hilarious at first , but now it's really old . Even a lot of the jokes are recycled . The movie mocks the intensity of those mini-biographies that appear at sports events and awards shows - too bad it was already done ( far better ) in " Zoolander . " I also must say that I find Jon Heder to be quite annoying and I don't think he's a very talented comedic actor . It would have been much funnier to see Ferrell paired with someone of talented background - I'd even take Stiller playing his naive-type character again in place of Heder . Will Arnett is WASTED - he was so hilarious on " Arrested Development " and his presence here is thrown away . Jenna Fischer has achieved a level of recognition on " The Office " in the U . S . - but this film proves that she won't have much lasting power . She has no absolutely no presence on screen and her character is so thin , unrealistic and - worst of all - totally bland that she comes across as being more insulting than the transparent love interests in Adam Sandler's early movies . Fans will attack me for taking the movie too seriously . That's not the case . The problem is that the film mistakes being silly for being funny - like Monty Python minus their brilliant wit . The movie is so focused on being silly that it leaves its brains at the door , and that's the problem : recycled gags , unfunny and repetitive visual jokes and poor acting really sinks this . I suppose in the right hands it could have been a very funny sports parody like " Dodgeball " ( which managed the balance of wit and silliness far better ) but they really missed the mark on this one .
Not as bad as it's supposed to be , but still not very funny .	Only one word can describe MR MAGOO - slapstick . Unfortunately this isn't no AIRPLANE . Looks can decieve , and that's exactly what MR MAGOO does . Based on the old cartoon , Leslie Nielson plays Magoo , a bumbling near blind man whop stumbles upon a pair of jewel thieves . Now he must hunt them down using . . . blindness basically . And that's all this film plays off . The blindness of MR MAGOO . Now maybe if they had some funny jokes involving this , but pretty much it's just one of those " droopy dumb grin on your face because you're too ashamed to admit you payed to see this " films . But MR MAGOO isn't as bad as it's hacked up to be . It's at least got some funny jokes , and it's good wholesome fun for the whole family ( Nielson tried to make a " NAKED GUN " for families in MAGOO , but it's no where near as good as that ) . So see it once , you might hate it , you might love it , whatever . I personally didn't hate it , but I sure didn't like it , or even rate it " okay . " stars for MR MAGOO-JOHN ULMER
Aliens vs . Predator vs . John Hughes .	Early reports of this film's production were fairly promising . FOX had apparently taken note of fans ' hatred for Paul W . S . Anderson's first " AvP " movie , greenlighting a " hardcore R " sequel ( in the words of one of the film's producers ) . They also hired a couple geeks to direct the film , which caused the collective fanbase to celebrate across the Internet . One thing they neglected to mention : the film's budget was less than half of the first film's . This is never a good sign for a sequel - it means the studio doesn't have very much faith and is playing it safe . A $30 - $40 million budget is less risky than upping the ante . " AvP " performed well , but not exceptionally well , and part of its success was due to the PG-13 rating ; any R-rated film is going to have less of a chance of capturing the teen demographic , and let's face it : most of the fans ( not all , but most ) are teenagers . Then FOX dumped the film on Christmas Day , which - as anyone familiar with such tactics is well aware - happens to be " spring cleaning " for the studios . It's when they throw out all their garbage in the hopes of letting them die quietly in theaters and not having to risk paying more to open amidst the summer rush and potentially lose money . FOX also denied critics ' viewings and kept promotion to an absolute minimum ; I think I saw two TV spots and an ad on YouTube and that was about it . They mainly relied on Internet promotion , and probably no doubt encouraged the Brothers Strause to participate in conversations online with fans to help set up the illusion of a " fan driven project . " The truth is the Strauses are quite inept and FOX took advantage of their naivety to rush out a sloppy , B-movie sequel that looks cheap and has some of the most unintentionally funny moments I've seen in recent memory . First of all , the cinematography : awful . Couldn't see anything . The Strauses denied this numerous times online , blaming faulty projectors , but that is obviously a lie , whether they are aware of it or not . The truth is , the film's creature effects are so low budget and poor that the dark lighting and incomprehensible editing ( it's impossible to tell what's going on - it's like Michael Bay on crack ) only really serves to help disguise this . I don't have anything wrong with this per se , but when it SEVERELY alters the effectiveness of your film - to the point where viewers don't have a clue what's happening - that's a big problem . Especially when your film's entire selling point is essentially getting to watch big scary monsters fight each other . The second blunder of this film is also a direct result of the low budget . The fake backgrounds looked about on par with what most film students can do nowadays with basic effects editing suites . I suppose they used a lot of green screens to save money ( no on-location shoots ) , but it looks awful . I see the Strause Brothers have a background in visual F / X and helped work on " 300 " - that may very well explain this problem . This visual style may have worked very well for " 300 " - but " AvP " ( especially this one ) attempts to align itself with reality , so all the fake backgrounds just make it seem like you're watching a Hallmark Hall of Fame special . Speaking of Hallmark and made-for-TV movies - - the teen subplot here was like John Hughes if John Hughes hadn't known how to write good dialogue or hire talented actors . First of all , we have the typical " high schoolers " being portrayed by actors in their mid-to-late ' 20s . Fun stuff . They also can't act , which results in hilarious misreadings of dialogue and bad takes that any experienced director would have left on the cutting room floor . The dialogue itself sounds about as bad as it would look on paper - the film's first 15 minutes introduces a kid working at a pizza place ( yes , it jumps from an opening involving Predators and Aliens and Predaliens aboard an intergalactic ship slaughtering each other one by one - to suddenly focusing on some kid in Hicksville , USA delivering pizzas to a girl he has a crush on ) . The dialogue in this scene alone was enough to make me laugh and it only gets worse from there . I don't mean to sound too harsh against the Strauses because honestly I don't think they really knew what they were doing - FOX took advantage of their willingness and cooperation , trying to market the film strictly to the fans . But still . Say what you will about Paul Anderson as a director , but he has an excellent visual style in terms of cinematography and especially set design . He's awful with every other aspect of film-making , but at least the first AvP had the set design going for it . AvP : Reqiuem's ultimate flaw is that it's not fun . I don't want to give the impression that I was expecting another " Godfather " here - I just wanted some simple entertainment - but it's borderline mediocre and the sort of thing you'd find on TV at 2 in the morning . It's just a genuine disappointment and I hope all the franchises involved - Alien , Predator , and the crossover - can recover in the future . I'd like to see an Alien 5 and Predator 3 without any references to this having ever been made .
Lame and unfunny	The first " Scary Movie " was funny enough and had some pretty silly but enjoyable moments , like the " Usual Suspects " gag . It was a crude movie , but entertaining nonetheless . The sequel is ugly , rude , crude , obnoxious , unfunny , lame and totally out of ideas . It spoofs everything in sight - mostly " Exorcist " - but fails on almost all levels . The entire cast basically returns . This time they get summoned to a haunted mansion where possessions are occurring . Weird people - including a creepy owner and a sick chef - turn them off and they soon find themselves being pursued by evil . If the plot sounds lame , that's because it is . The cast is at a loss for words ; the Wayans Brothers recycle loads of gags from the first film and manage to make them worse . There are only two parts I laughed at . Most of the film is just crude for the sake of being crude , and that's a problem when none of the jokes are effective . I'd say skip this one and pretend it was never even made .
Ughh . . . What happened Steve ?	The new remake of the 1970 Neil Simon classic THE OUT OF TOWNERS stars Steve Martin , Goldie Hawn and John Cleese . However , even with this excellent comedic cast , the script for this film itself just staggers with unfunny jokes , scenes , and humor-much UNlike the first . If you're a fan of the original , maybe you want to see this to compare it yourself to the first . However , then again maybe you should just leave the first film by itself , and not see this . It's your choice , but beware-it's just not funny like the original - stars - - JOHN ULMER
Simply appalling - but in a good way .	" Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man " is total crap at its best ( or worst ) . This movie is garbage ? excessive and stupid . It's also extremely homoerotic , packed to the gills with fetishistic male machismo , sweaty muscular men , and Don Johnson constantly wearing an open shirt . ( By the way , he's nicknamed Cowboy . Hmm . ) In the opening sequence , Harley Davidson ( Mickey Rourke ) is cruising along on his bike . He stops for gas , and when he enters the station , there's a hold-up going on . He strides up to the front and asks for ten bucks ' worth of gas . The robber shouts something at Rourke to the effect of , " You idiot , I'll kill you ! " Rourke keeps his cool , whips the gun out of the dude's hand and smashes his face in . The other robber , a knife-wielding weirdo straight out of a Joel Schumacher movie , screams : " I'm gonna cut you long , hard and deep ! " Now , is this what one heterosexual male would say to another man ? No way . Need I mention he takes a swipe at Rourke like a pansy ? The movie is one of those absurd , bright , eccentric late ' 80s / early ' 90s hybrids , where the neon glow of the past decade carried on into the hard , visceral dimension of 1990s cinema ? resulting in , for lack of a better word , schlock . During the aforementioned holdup , the camera pans down to the hostages of the store ? two black guys , both looking very stereotypical , and one looking a bit like Steve Urkel ( complete with the glasses ) . It's just awful , awful stuff ; and the vibrant colors of the clothing , backgrounds and foregrounds are dizzying and nausea-inducing . The dialogue is atrocious . Example : Harley : Where are you headed ? Beautiful Hitchhiker : Nowhere in particular . Harley : Well , let me take you there . It's spoken so poorly , it becomes the punch line of an unintentional joke . Avoid this movie at all costs ; unless you enjoy movies that are so bad they're good . In that regard , " Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man " is a classic . Graded as a regular movie , it's complete garbage . P . S . I'm a huge fan of Mickey Rourke so I secretly think this movie rules to a degree of coolness because he's such a bad @ $$ in it . But it's still stupid and insulting .
" Preeeety lame , Millhouse . "	I really like the original " Honey I Shrunk the Kids " movie because it was clever , fun and I grew up on it . ( Nostalgia always triumphs over film weaknesses . ) However the sequel , " Honey I Blew Up the Kid , " is absolutely terrible . Although it's not quite as bad as " We Shrunk Ourselves , " it's still disastrous and a really poor cash-in on the original ( which was an unexpected hit when it came out ) . This one involves Wayne ( Rick Moranis ) the wacky inventor creating the opposite of his last machine - a ray gun that can blow up people ( not literally , of course ) and make them really huge . ( This would certainly replace certain genitalia enlargement pills that exist on the market right now . ) But oops , Wayne's toddler gets zapped by the sucker and turns into Godzilla . The movie tries to rip off Godzilla and all those other cheesy movies by having Big Baby attack the Big City like a giant . Thankfully , he doesn't poop , because that would surely leave a stain on the city . This movie is just lame . It isn't funny , it isn't clever , it's hard to watch at times . It's a disappointing sequel to a fun movie that never needed one .
Almost painful to sit through .	White Chicks , the newest intellectually insulting " gut buster " from the Wayans Brothers ( Shawn and Marlon ) , is about as funny as a route canal and as entertaining as when Steven Seagal takes a minute or two out of his films to go on boring rants stressing the importance of global peace and political equality . The Wayans were previously responsible for Scary Movie , which was funny not because it was brilliant but rather because it was risqué at the risk of being grotesque , and funny at the risk of being offensive . The sequel was simply grotesque and offensive . White Chicks is worse than Scary Movie 2 , because at least that film had the un-PC antics ( like Chris Elliot's deformed hand ) that were moderately shocking . The PG-13 White Chicks is simply infantile and ridiculous - bringing to mind other films such as The Hot Chick that are similarly rooted in an unbelievable storyline , dulled by banal and unrealistic characters . Take , for example , the role fulfilled by the hapless John Heard . His acting defines the expression , " Phoning in the performance . " He looks out of exhausted , lost and bewildered . His character is given little to no background introduction - he suddenly appears and disappears just as quickly . Or how about the " protagonists " ? Do we really know who they are ? Apart from a pathetic throwaway exploitation of their home life ( clichés include : Being a cop who is always late for everything ; the wife who is worried about her husband and is upset he never calls her or makes it home on time ; the bachelor who's looking for love ) , the movie pretty much just skips forward right into the plot . I know not all comedies need extensive character backdrops , but even other slapstick buddy films like Dumb and Dumber took the time to introduce their characters and make them distinct . I walked away from White Chicks not really knowing the differences between the two main characters .
One of the most genuinely annoying films I've seen all year	I guess it's not fair for me to judge the film . I was a bit biased . I had read about the true story of Merhan Nasseri , an Iranian refugee who landed at Charles de Gaulle Airport near Paris in 1988 after being denied entry into England because his passport and United Nations refugee certificate had been stolen . Due to the technicalities he stayed in Terminal 1 and finally , years later , was granted permission to either enter France or return to his own country . The irony is that he has chosen to remain living in the airport . So , the potential for the film was quite interesting . It's an amazing story and given the right cast I was sure it could be told well . When I heard Spielberg was on board , I was excited , because it implied ( to me , anyway ) that an experienced director was at the helm who would respect the original story without turning it into some MTV-generation romantic comedy . Little did I know Spielberg was yet again adding his " magic touch " to a true story , and thereby destroying it . This is worse than any MTV movie - it's Spielberg Shlock . Don't get me wrong , Spielberg's a great director . . . when someone's got a leash on him . But sometimes he's given too much freedom . His ego tends to get the best of him ; he needs to get rid of the yes-men . Something tells me there were a lot of yes-men on the set this time around . And having Tom Hanks play Viktor was about the worst choice . Hanks ' performance is simply awful . Something tells me he had too many yes-men handing him praise , as well . The plot is very , very , VERY loosely based on the true story of Nasseri , and I'm sure whenever he gets to see the film as it plays on the free TV in Terminal 1 , he'll be quite disappointed . His story was already made into a French film in 1993 named " Tombés du ciel . " I haven't seen the original but from the plot description on IMDb it sounds far more factually accurate . Okay , so , you want to know my real problems with the Spielberg remake ? Okay , first things first . If you're making a movie about an eastern immigrant , DO NOT name his native country " Krakhozia . " That's about the WORST fake country name I've ever heard in any movie , and that's including Narnia and Toyland . Secondly , the movie's smug , self-conscious , " happy " attitude is awful . It's like a continuation of " Forrest Gump " only Hanks is even more annoying . Thirdly , all the stuff Viktor does in this movie is totally fake and I never for a second bought that he was any eastern immigrant . His accent was terrible and he's stupider than Tara Reid , yet a week after being in the airport he's learned English ( with the help of a terminal worker , who , as we all know , have jobs transporting baggage because they're so smart and well-educated ) . Suddenly Viktor is a well-knowledged , experienced American immigrant who " knows the ropes " - he even gets a job as a painter in the terminal . And then there's the Mandatory Romantic Interest Subplot . It's totally unnecessary and gives the movie a fake , bogged-down feel . Catherine Zeta-Jones is completely annoying ( almost as much as Hanks ) and her character is a shallow , trite , convenient addition to the plot . Neither character is given much depth and their " romance " comes across as being entirely heavy-handed and unbelievable . On top of the schmaltz and plot contrivances , the continual marketing tie-ins are sickening - I can't say how many times I had Burger King crammed down my throat while watching this movie . After I left , I felt like going to the nearest Burger King and throwing stones at everyone inside . That's how mad it made me . When I pay $16 to see a movie ( yes , I paid in pounds , which in dollars is doubled to around $15 or $16 ) I don't want to have Burger King , Nokia , Gatorade , Coke , Pepsi , etc . , thrown into my face . I get enough of that on TV . It was truly embarrassing ( and I felt ashamed for Spielberg ) when he spends ten minutes following Viktor's adventure to buy a hamburger from Burger King . The message is nice - if you're an illegal immigrant and can't afford anything , just get jobs no one else wants like cleaning toilets or collecting luggage carts and earn minimum wage so you can buy a greasy hamburger from some pock-marked self-absorbed teenager who probably spat in your food . I hate to sound really bitter and all ( I'm truly not this bitter in real life - usually ) but there's something about this movie that just struck me as too nice . It's like Martin Short in the movie " Clifford " - - it's so sweet you know there's got to be a hidden agenda somewhere .
I don't buy into its hype	After hearing so much about " Blue Velvet " I was very disappointed . Sitting down to watch it , I knew it would be a bizarre experience and had heard that it was quite disturbing ; however , I have a strong stomach . What I don't like about " Blue Velvet " is that it seems like exploitation . It didn't " disturb " me but I didn't enjoy it , feel comfortable watching it , and was appalled by Lynch's directorial decisions . The scene in which Dennis Hopper uses his oxygen mask goes on too long , and is too explicit and sick and depraved . Frankly , I don't care if this is a " satire " of our world . I've read that it's supposed to be an examination of the evil that lurks beneath suburban America . That it's all a dream in the protagonist's head . Etc . However , in order to stress this , Lynch did not need to resort to some of the over-the-top , excessive elements that he used . I thought the acting was sub-par , all except for Hopper , but then again his character is so revolting it's hard to enjoy the performance , even as a villain . The script is weak - I laughed every time Laura Dern spoke , her lines are so cheesy and typical . Overall this really isn't a very good movie in my opinion . " American Beauty " and even " The ' burbs " ( yes , that's right , " The ' burbs " ) did a better job of examining the undercurrents of suburban life . " Blue Velvet " is not an entertaining movie . It is sick , excessive , with bad acting and writing , which makes me wonder if its single redeeming value - - its supposed " satirical edge " - - is really worth the means ? I don't think so .
The Not-So-Hot Movie . . .	Some SpoilersTo set the record straight , I tend to overrate films from Adam Sandler , Rob Schneider , and the rest of the " SNL " - gone-film crew . Why ? I am not sure . Was I the only one who found " Happy Gilmore " hilarious ? Apparently so . Am I the only one who thought " Big Daddy " was crude but had a heart at its core ? It would appear so . But sometimes , on very rare occasions , the comedies just don't cut it for me . I thought " Billy Madison " was mediocre , with sporadically funny gags throughout . And I went into ex - " SNL " - comedian Rob Schneider's newest flick , " The Hot Chick , " expecting to give the film a " 3 " out of 5 . Or at least a " 2 . 5 . " But as the film proceeded , my expectations quickly dropped . Along with my final rating for the film . Filmed about ten years too late for its own good , " The Hot Chick " is your average comedy about body switcheroos , in honor of " Freaky Friday " and " Vice Versa . " Actually , it's not your average comedy . It's a below-average comedy . To call it average is too high an honor . The film stars Rob Schneider as a dirty thief who finds a mysterious earring one day after a robbery . At home he tries it on ( for purposes untold ) , to find himself switching bodies with the girl , named Jessica , who lost them , or , I should say , lost " it , " as she still holds the other earring . On her ear . Jessica stole them earlier that day from a store specializing in odd things , co-run by druggie Adam Sandler , who likes to tell people where you can hide " weed . " Funny . Believe it or not , it's one of the only gags I laughed at . Not the weed gag . I laughed at Adam Sandler dressed up as a weirdo . Ha . Unbelievably funny . Not . The problem with " The Hot Chick " is that not only does it aim way below the belt for humor , but the humor is nonexistent . Even the one scene I laughed hard at was disgusting , in which Rob Schneider ( who is really a woman inside a man at this point ) , takes lessons on how to urinate from an elderly black man in a restroom . The scene was quite amusing before they had to go into detail . Just when you think the film cannot dig any deeper below the belt , it manages to , and you feel like vomiting . But , as I said before , " The Hot Chick " has other problems , also . One of the problems is the missed comedy moments . So many things could have been poked fun of . Back-and-forth shots of Schneider in a woman's body and the woman in Schneider's body would have been funny , but we feel cheated as we are just shown Jessica in Schneider's body doing stupid , repetitive things in every scene . She's in the bedroom of her friend's house most of the movie . But I ask myself , how funny would it have been had Jessica , in a man's body , gone out and done tons of things . Sure , she does some things , like trying to get a free drink by doing something provocative for an employee - while she's in Schneider's body - but I felt most every joke was a lesser laugh than it could have been , and there should have been a lot more things overall that could have been done given the circumstances . Let's face it : Jessica's friend asking to see her friend's newly aquired . . . err . . . " you know what " isn't funny the first time , much less the fourth time . It's stupid . But that's what we get throughout the film , instead of intelligent , witty jokes . And the characters ! They're all cardboard-cut-outs , living in a fantasy world . The comedy doesn't have any real characters doing funny stuff ; the things they say and do seem straight out of someone trying to entertain friends , not world-wide audiences . It's as if the characters are disconnected ; just there to do crude things ( like the romantic tension between a high school girl , who knew Jessica before she turned into Rob Schneider . The girl who knew Jessica before she transformed then falls in love with Schneider . . . who is really Jessica . . . and kisses him . . . or her . . . confused yet ? ) . They're a bunch of disconnected , wandering jokes that aren't even funny . I can see how some of the things may have looked funny on paper , but the truth is , the script , co-written by Schneider , doesn't successfully make the transition from paper to film . Take , for instance , a scene where Rob Schneider's character is sprayed by pepper-spray in the face , and then proceeds to stumble down a set of stairs . Welcome to close ups of Schneider's face smacking the steps . And just when you think the gag - which was terrible in the first place - has been stretched to its limit , Schneider falls down another set of stairs . Unbelievable . I tried to be fair to this film . I really did . I sat down with an open mind , as I tend to enjoy these types of comedies . But what I got was a bunch of dull characters doing dull , unfunny things , that seem contrived from the beginning . Perhaps if there had been a bit more thought put into the script this film would have turned out funny , but instead , I left saying , " This is soooooo ten years ago ! " stars - John Ulmer
Where's Helen Hunt ?	TV version of " Twister " springs a few leaks but manages to remain watchable . My sister bought this at a Wal-Mart a few years back when it was released , I saw it back then and thought it was okay . Later " Twister " with Bill Pullman and Helen Hunt comes out ( or was it before ? I think it was ' 97 ) and did a better job overall . But " Twister " was more silly fun ; this is realistic with a message . It all depends on what you want from a movie with twisters : Twisters , or a low-budget character study ? John Schneider and Devon Sawa ( he's the reason my sister bought it ) star , and Devon Sawa , who went on to " Wild America , " " Final Destination " and " Slackers " got his big break here . So in a way , I was one of the first people to see him really take off . I don't know if it's an honor or a shame , I haven't seen how he acts in recent films . " Night of the Twisters " all depends on personal taste , like I said , it all depends on what you want from a movie with twisters : Twisters , or a low-budget character study . " Night of the Twister " has the latter . So you decide . I give it a . . . - John Ulmer
A stinking pile of doggy doo-doo	I bought this film when it came out on DVD - - despite all its negative reviews - - because of Robert De Niro's attachment to the project . That was my sole reason . Let's be fair - - it's not the utterly disastrous movie the critics made it out to be . Is it bad ? Yeah . Pretty bad . Awful ? No . It's just a bit below-average ; mediocre . If you honestly think this is the " worst " movie ever made , you probably haven't seen any episodes of " Mystery Science Theater 3000 . " However , that said , it's still a stinker . De Niro is in the movie about twenty minutes and shouldn't have even been used on the ads the way he was . It was obviously just to rake in more cash with suckers like me . De Niro is OK and doesn't " phone in " his performance as some critics were saying - he just doesn't look very enthralled at all and is less engaging than he usually is . He's nowhere near as bad as I expected him to be after reading all the reviews , though . Kinnear and Stamos try their best but the movie just isn't up to par at all . Nick Hamm is a really worthless director and the DVD's ten gazillion " special " multiple endings are each more insulting than the last . You know a movie is in trouble when it has separate endings - - this one has about twenty too many . Not worth watching unless you're a huge fan of the cast and have nothing better to do on a Friday or Saturday , but in that case I'd recommend something more worthwhile .
Pretty bad .	I was excited to see " Waterworld " when it came out back in 1995 . I guess I was too stupid to have heard of its awful advance previews and its months on the shelves ; an action delivered by a studio fearing wasting money on a hugely expensive flop . Well , they wasted their money , all right . This film ( which cost way too much - i . e . millions upon millions ) is rightfully acknowledged as one of the largest disasters in cinema history . Rivalling " Battlefield Earth " in the Ego of the Star department , this was supposedly a personal battle of Kevin Costner . He saw potential in the project and fought to get it made . Now let's look at this logically , yes ? The plot : The future is a post-apocalyptic world where polar ice caps have melted or something , and hence the world is a floating assortment of pirates , ships and people who look like they just stumbled out of a 1492 : The Legend of Columbus re-enactment . Oh yes , it's bad . What did Costner see in the material ? I don't know . Whatever it was , it seemed to put his career on hold for more than a few years . Even when he came back , he never really " came back . " It's interesting that Costner has made two disaster post-apocalypse movies . . . this and " The Postman . " You may be asking yourself why a man as well-adjusted as Costner has a fixation on destruction and chaos ? Well , there's only one answer : I have no idea . Whatever it is , I suggest he seek psychiatric help immediately . I don't want to have to sit through a " Waterworld II : The Return of the Postman " any time soon .
It isn't funny enough to be a comedy , isn't scary enough to be a horror , and isn't convincing enough in its character development or subplots to make us care at all .	Peter Jackson's problem is very simply that he deals in extremes . He has never found moderation in his career and this is what will always prevent him from becoming a master of his craft . As a shock filmmaker in his early days he was quite effective ? the passionate filmmaker who wasn't that great but kind of grabbed your attention once in a while with projects like " Heavenly Creatures " and " The Frighteners . " But today with his multi-million-dollar budgets his passion often blinds him . It's easy to see where this trend started , too : " Braindead " ( or " Dead Alive " as it is known in the US ) is considered a " horror classic " by Internet gore-flick geeks , and it is often compared to " Evil Dead II " in terms of its balance of humor and the macabre , but the " Evil Dead " series handled these elements far more successfully . Perhaps to the gore-lover " Braindead " will offer exactly what they want : buckets and buckets of blood . To most other viewers I imagine its flaws will hinder any level of serious enjoyment . Now , I understand it's a comedy ( sort of ) , and I know it's not supposed to be a realistic horror film ; but without any sense of a marginally realistic universe this film has no grounding , and its complete lack of character development doesn't help much , either . Those who just look for gore and wacky humor can perhaps overlook such " trivial " topics such as the clichéd , totally unconvincing ( and borderline creepy ) romance . Lionel ( Timothy Blame ) is practically stalked by Paquita Maria Sanchez ( Diana Peñalver ) , and this unnecessary romance continues throughout the film . There's no chemistry , no spark ? nothing . And I can't think of a single sane human being who would continue to pursue a relationship with a man after being treated the way Paquita is in this film by Lionel : the fact that Jackson tries to establish a romance later on in the film , when Paquita is seen yearning for Lionel while on a date with another man , is entirely laughable . If you're going to make a cheesy , gory horror film , then don't try to dump a stupid romance on top . Because the romance in this film is probably the most unconvincing relationship I've ever seen in any film in my entire life . That's hurtful to the film when it spends so much time focusing on this subplot . Then there's the fact that all these people in Lionel's town continue to die and turn into zombies ( and they all end up living in his basement ) , yet no one wonders where the nurse got to . Or the priest . Or the gang leader . Or why the grave of Lionel's mother has been dug out from the inside . It's just completely stupid . And just because it's a horror-comedy doesn't mean any of these flaws should be excused . It's incredibly lazy film-making ? the character development ( of which there is none of any value ) and romance between Lionel and Paquita are insulting throwaways offered by Jackson to fit the mandatory guidelines of horror films . Then there's the fact that Jackson tries to reference the Oedipal complexes of " Psycho " ? but Norman Bates had depth , and Lionel has none . Watching him tend to his mother doesn't ring true or look like something a caring , sheltered son would do ? it looks like something an insane serial killer who wants to have sex with his mom would do . It's another poor call by Jackson in a film that isn't funny enough to be a comedy , isn't scary enough to be a horror , and isn't convincing enough in its character development or subplots to make us care at all . Lionel is supposed to be our hero , but I've never seen such a dull and unmoving protagonist in any film . Yeah , he's under pressure from his mother ? we get it . But then when his mom dies , he doesn't react at all . It's another example of the total lack of reality in this film in terms of human emotion : at least Bruce Campbell had a breakdown in " Evil Dead " after his girl died . You got the feeling that he was real despite the absurdity of the flick . Lionel is just a big , bland waste of space . Sure , Blame is talented when it comes to the physical comedy , but his acting is nonexistent : he's worse than the people on commercials for Wheaties cereal . Where did Jackson find this guy , in a New Zealand bar on karaoke night or something ? " There , that drunk oaf singing ' Unchained Melody ' in the wrong key ? I want HIM for my movie ! " He couldn't have found a less talented individual . And even his physical comedy isn't all that great ? the whole Chaplin routine is kind of funny at first , but after the millionth exaggerated fight with a zombie it gets really old . Plus , the bizarre scene with Lionel nursing a mutated demon baby in a park and then proceeding to punt , kick , beat and throw the thing after it attacks him is like watching a train wreck : so much potential for this scene , and all it results in is a lame , childish sequence of frat-boy humor that brings to mind the atrocity committed by Tom Green in " Freddy Got Fingered . The film has a good rating on IMDb . It has a strong Internet fanbase . And a lot of PJ fanboys have given it a revival in cult popularity . But if you're not a gore freak and you aren't a loser with no social life who thinks Peter Jackson is the best director in the world , you'll probably be smart enough to realize this is one of the worst films ever made . And I'm sure I'll get plenty of hate mail for single-handedly declaring all Ringnuts and Jackson fanboys are losers when I'm the guy spending time writing a review to post on the Internet , but hey , I never said I wasn't a hypocrite .
Shockingly inept - did I really just watch this ?	Let me start by saying Indiana Jones is a staple of my childhood , like many of you who might be reading this review , but I've never been a so-called " fanboy . " I enjoy all three movies , specifically the first and third , and I can appreciate " Temple of Doom " in spite of its faults . So I went to see the midnite screening with an open mind - no real expectations one way or another - and to be fair the first fifteen minutes , while not exactly very in-tune with the style of the previous films , entertained me . Then , suddenly Indiana Jones turned into a superhuman and - in a shockingly absurd scene , even by adventure film standards - survives the most improbable predicament I've ever seen in a film . And I saw " Live Free or Die Hard . " And I bring that film up for a reason - because despite fans of Die Hard claiming DH4 was watered down and over-the-top ( which it was ) , it was still _ fun _ . And I felt like I was watching John McClane - for all the lack of swearing , the essence of the character was still intact . And even though he became Superman a few times towards the end of the movie , the action sequences were staged well and exciting to watch . " Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull " suffers because the action scenes aren't well staged or exciting . They're not merely over-the-top - they're just dull and stupid . And they're filmed so ineptly that I was completely shocked that Spielberg had anything to do with this . This is a complete backtrack from his recent directorial advances - forget whatever he may have learned from all his critically acclaimed films over the past decade ; " Crystal Skull " is his worst film since " Hook . " And , you know , I kinda like Hook in a guilty-pleasure sort of way , which I can't even say about this film - because there's nothing guiltily fun about it . It's big , bloated and - worst of all - boring . Unlike Stallone with Rambo 4 or Willis with DH4 , I honestly didn't feel like I was watching Indiana Jones . There was maybe one moment in the entire film where I thought to myself , " He's back ! It's Indy ! " The rest of the film he didn't look , feel or seem like Indy - maybe it has to do with Ford's age . I don't know . But to me - and I'm not just saying this to be mean and I'm not using overstatement - it seemed like he wasn't " into it . " Which I know isn't true because I honestly think his intentions were honest and he was doing this for the fans more than for the money . But not for one real moment did I feel like I was watching Indiana Jones let alone an Indiana Jones movie . I sadly don't have enough space to write all my concerns with this film , because there are many . And to categorize them briefly may come across as ignorant , but for space constraints , I have to . Firstly : the CGI . I don't have a problem with it being used as much as some people seem to - but it's awful . It stands out because it's so poor . All the backgrounds are bad enough , but to see Shia swinging through vines in a jungle with a pack of monkeys - everyone in the theater erupted in laughter , which I don't believe was the filmmakers ' intent . Aside from my faults with Indy's presentation in the film , the supporting cast is totally underplayed . Jim Broadbent ? Introduced and then gone - painfully neglected . John Hurt ? He does the rambling incoherent old man routine quite well but you never feel like he's very genuine . The biggest pains to me were Shia and Karen Allen returning as Marion . I know it was a shock for her to return to the role , but did she have to stand there throughout the last 45 minutes of the movie with a constant big cheesy grin on her face ? Her son is standing between two speeding cars having a sword fight with a Soviet soldier through a dense jungle , dodging bullets from nearby Soviets who are trying to kill them all - and all she can do is manage a grin and crack a joke about her son's stance ? ( He took fencing lessons . ) Everything that made the character so special in Raiders is GONE . The feisty dialogue between her and Indy is emulated - but comes across as painfully cheesy and people in the theater were again laughing at unintentional parts . ( Marion : " I'm sure you had plenty of girls over the years ! " Indy : " Yeah , but there was just one problem . None of ' em were you , babe ! " ) I won't go into the misdirection of the action sequences , the contrivances of the plot ( or the fact that it seemed to be made up as it went along and totally lacked the cohesion and suspense of the first three films ) or the supreme overacting of Cate Blanchett or the silly typical " Is he a bad guy or isn't he ? " character of Mac ( Ray Winstone in yet another underdeveloped role for a character that deserved greater ) . Sadly I've run out of room here . Most of my further comments would ruin the film anyway . But suffice to say - this is far worse than I ever imagined it should or even could be - I just can't believe such a talented team made this , and it really disappoints me on so many levels not just that the film is merely " bad " but that it is SO bad ; and that not for one second did I feel like I was watching the iconic action hero again . It was Harrison Ford playing Indiana Jones , but it wasn't Indiana Jones . And at the bare minimum , in spite of the film's flaws , I was hoping I'd at least get that much .
An absolutely terrible and laughably bad film	When this was being advertised on TBS back in 2001 , every single ad featured Mel Gibson and Jet Li's names . They were only producers , but you wouldn't know it by the extent to which their names were featured . I thought the film looked good back then - some kind of " Matrix " / " Highlander " clone , maybe , but it still looked kinda interesting . Well , I was wrong . From the opening - with this angelic warrior being pursued by , and then fighting , Billy Zane - the film only becomes worse and worse . It copies " The Matrix " mercilessly - from the wannabe philosophy that stems throughout every scene to the slow-motion sword fights . Billy Zane gives an embarrassingly dull performance and the rest of the cast - mostly B-movie actors or TV actors - don't help any . The plot is silly to begin with . The Shadow Warriors are trying to bring an end to the world - replace " Shadow Warriors " with any other bad guy name from another psycho-baddie movie and you've got the exact same plot . Billy Zane assembles together a group of warriors to help defend earth against the Shadow Warriors . The ending of the film is so laughable it's almost painful to watch . I would never sit through this again and certainly would never recommend it to anyone else . " Invincible " to criticism it is not .
Amusing but really nothing special .	An enjoyable but nevertheless quite silly and average remake of the classic television show has the new John Shaft ( Samuel L . Jackson ) beating up a white racist ( Christian Bale ) and getting booted off of the police force . Everyone in this film is a racist - primarily the whites - and this whole idea is way too forced . The language and violence is rough , yet the film itself is quite goofy , with not many good scenes and only a few mediocre action sequences . The moral is somewhat depressing : if someone wrongs you , or someone of your race , then beat them up and kill them once they reappear . Richard Roundtree's cameo helps a bit , but regardless , this SHAFT is still only " good " at best . stars .
Overrated , disappointing sci-fi film that has become fondly remembered over the years . . . but why ?	Steven Spielberg's " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " ( 1977 ) is a genuinely silly , unfortunately outdated story . Its epic scope made it one of the highest-grossing films of 1977 , nominated for two Academy Awards ® ( it lost Best Visual Effects to George Lucas ' " Star Wars " ) . Now , 27 years later , it just seems goofy and sickeningly sweet . Spielberg adds a schmaltzy layer to most of his films that set his projects apart from the work of other directors . Arguably the most famous filmmaker since Hitchcock ( in terms of public recognition ) , Spielberg is responsible for some of the greatest films ever made . Most critics consider " E . T . " and " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " ? both films that deal with extra-terrestrial life ? to be some of his finest . For me , they are both rather disappointing . And unbearably sugar coated . So , what is the primary problem with " Close Encounters " ? Is it a bad movie ? No , not really . But it's not a particularly memorable one , either . Apart from a few so-called " classic " sequences ( the boy opening the door , the mashed potatoes , the alien arrival ) , the movie fails to spark much interest . Most of it ? to be completely blunt ? is quite stupid . Spielberg admits on the Special Edition DVD that he finds " Close Encounters " a bit too optimistic and unrealistic . When Spielberg made this movie , he believed in extra-terrestrial life , and was a young man with no children . In retrospect , Spielberg claims that the movie is a perfect snapshot of his youth , but as an adult , he would never make the movie the same way he did in ' 77 . One of the largest flaws is the fact that Roy Neary ( played by Richard Dreyfuss fresh off the success of Spielberg's 1975 smash hit " JAWS " ) abandons his own family ( wife and children ) to embark on a crazy search for extra-terrestrial life . In a matter of thirty minutes of screen time he has packed up , traveled to Wyoming , broken past blocked off roads , found a new romantic interest , and by the end . . . well . . . let's just say that the conclusion is rather shameful on Spielberg's behalf . It is quite evident that he had no firm grasp of moral obligation in ' 77 , and Roy's climactic decision is wholly unbelievable . Then again , most of the film is like that , too . Neary is an electrician who experiences a " close encounter " one night when a UFO seems to attack his car , and then flies off into the distance . Roy soon struggles with confusing mental images that have mysteriously implanted into his brain . Hounded by the smart Dr . Lacombe ( French director Francois Truffaut in his acting debut ) , Roy soon realizes that the extra-terrestrials plan to land on earth ? and he wants to be there , to see it all . Roy's evolution is too fast ? in a matter of what seem to be few days he has turned into a complete loon , and because of Spielberg's lack of character arc , the sudden change is startling and ? worst of all ? cold . We lose all sense of empathy for Roy , primarily because we do not experience his pain ? we see him suffering , sure , and moping around like a " cry baby , " as his son names him . But this happens so fast that we are left wanting more . The movie's conclusion ? which lasts over forty minutes long ? is the most exciting part , but the abrupt change of pace ( from being a slow-moving charming family film about " close encounters " to an oddball chase movie about the government covering up a dangerous conspiracy and hunting down escaped witnesses ) hinders the lasting impact . Spielberg is constantly trying to find a groove for his movie , and never really finds one to stay the course . Then , there's the long-awaited alien introduction ( which lasts over twenty minutes long ) . Most people flocked to the theaters in order to see this sequence ? the special effects showcase of the year . This is proven by the fact that Spielberg purposely draws out the scene for such a lengthy period of time . Then , audiences savored the F / X because they were the best since Stanley Kubrick's " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " ( even the trailer advertisements claimed this was so , in order to entice viewers ) . Now , they're outdated , by almost all standards of special effects . Watching them for twenty minutes becomes tiring . And of course , the annoying musical conversation between man and alien comes next ? something else that only makes the film more grating so many years later . " It's so ' 70s ! " someone once said . I agree . ( Many great masterpieces were made during the 1970s , but most people forget how many downright cheesy , forgettable movies were made , too . ) " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " simply does not hold up after 27 years , which is quite unfortunate . The F / X are shoddy , the ideas are insane , the movie is long and boring , and the direction and acting are about the only two things that approach greatness . Spielberg shows talent behind the camera here , but it is vastly inferior to " JAWS . " Even John Williams ' score fails to leave the same impact as " JAWS , " " Jurassic Park , " etc . Produced during a slew of " happy alien " movies ( followed by another slew of " mean alien " movies during the ' 80s after Ridley Scott's " Alien " in 1979 ) , " Close Encounters " is at times amusing , annoying , fast , long , and silly , all at once . The nation needed hope during the ' 70s , and they turned to the skies . Spielberg answered their calls , with a movie that set records , but is now nothing but a forgettable tale . Many will disagree with me when I say that " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " is an overrated , disappointing motion picture with few redeeming qualities . The harsh feedback should be interesting .
Hugely disappointing	Brian De Palma , Robert De Niro in his first movie . . . it has to be good , right ? That's what I thought . But I was hugely disappointed . " GREETINGS " is no more a comedy than SCHINDLER'S LIST . I didn't laugh a single time , nor grin or smile . It has one good gag , at the very end of the film , and if it had maintained that wit throughout I would have given it a higher rating . However it starts off very poor and only gets worse as time goes on . Made on a shoestring budget , and it shows in every scene . Continuity errors galore . De Palma , who edited the film , clearly has no handle on editing and literally jumps around from scene to scene . So , in one segment a group of characters are talking , and it suddenly jumps to fifteen minutes later in a different room , and they're still talking , and we're left wondering what on earth is going on . I only really wanted to see this because of Robert De Niro . I am a die-hard De Niro fan and will watch anything with him in it ( I even sat through SAM'S SONG , which is even worse than this - by a long shot ) . However De Niro - despite top billing - is not in this film very much , and when he is , he's not very impressive . ( Although he hardly does a bad job , either . ) I couldn't believe De Palma was responsible for this film , it lacks all the typical Hitchcock trademarks of his . However , there are a few references - characters discuss the film BLOW-UP ( 1966 ) which he of course later loosely remade into BLOW OUT ( 1981 ) and at one point a female character subtly picks up HITCHCOCK / TRUFFAUT from a bookshelf and begins to read it . However the rest of this film lacks his typical visionary edge and I suppose it's because he was still learning ( and that's clear in every frame ) . De Palma , never a friend of the MPAA , seems to push the boundaries a lot in GREETINGS and for the most part it's totally unnecessary . The whole subplot about De Niro's peeping-tom habits are disturbing and make us dislike his character - which is a problem since the sequel ( HI , MOM ! in 1970 ) revolves entirely around his character . ( And for the record , GREETINGS was the first film awarded an X rating , which says something about its content . It's not too explicit nowadays , but we're left wondering WHY De Palma had to cram so much unnecessary sex and nudity into his film , because it seems like it's just there for the sake of being controversial - and almost 40 years later it is not controversial anymore , which makes it all the more outdated and pretentious . ) Overall I was hugely disappointed in this movie . It's not funny . It's sophomoric , with stupid editing and direction ( just watch the scene where De Niro and co . walk down a street and De Palma puts it in super-fast-motion - what the hell was he thinking ? ! ) . That , plus an unbearably outdated ' 60s overtone ( and you thought EASY RIDER was outdated ! ) and truly awful theme tune ( it sounds like the Beatles on drugs ) , make GREETINGS a truly disappointing experience .
Very simplistic in humor and also very repetitive	By now if you haven't managed to see " Napoleon Dynamite " you've still probably heard it referenced a lot . " Vote for Pedro " has become a pop culture reference already along with many annoying idiots trying to imitate the voice of the titular character , quoting lines from the movie such as " Sweet " or so on and so forth . I started watching this fully expecting to be drawn in from the beginning , but ten minutes in I was loathing it . I wondered to myself how on earth anybody could find such irritating characters to be " hilarious . " If you consider repetition of words stated in pothead dumb Californian voices to be " utterly hilarious " then , by all means , this is for you . There's plenty of that here . But I found it to be annoying and stupid . Jon Heder , who plays Napoleon , gives one of the most obnoxious performances of all-time . Elsewhere I have seen people describe it as brilliant and awesome . To each his own , I suppose .
About ten years past its prime , and even then its victim to its own satire	" Not Another Teen Movie " is an " American Pie " - style satire of the sex / teen comedies of the 1980s . It includes all the stereotype characters - The Jock , The Geek , The Cheerleader , The Spoiled Stuck-Up Princess ( I can't use the real word ) , The Foreign Exchange Student and the Token Black . It is quite funny at times but once you get past the basics - for example , the obvious stereotypes - there's not much there . It falls victim to its own satire - it becomes another teen movie , loaded with sex gags , stupid characters reminiscent of " American Pie " and some lame R-rated crudity that isn't nearly as funny or risqué as it thinks it is . If you're just looking for some skin this has it , and plenty of it , but you can do better by just going and renting any ' 80s movies - heck , " Sixteen Candles " had nudity and it got away with PG , just imagine how all the R-rated movies were . ( Maybe you don't have to imagine , maybe you've seen them all already - in which case you're sadder than I am . ) If you're looking for a sex comedy , " American Pie , " " Porky's , " and " Animal House " are funnier . If you're looking for clever satire , this isn't it . It's smug , self-conscious and contrived - it's also ten years late and no doubt most teens aren't even familiar with " The Breakfast Club , " Mr . T , Molly Ringwald and Paul Gleason anymore .
Disappointing	Look , I'm not one of those snobby cinema elitists who scoffs and upturns their nose at every Adam Sandler film that comes out . " Happy Gilmore " is one of my all-time favourite " guilty pleasures " and he's done a lot of entertaining films that aren't by any means thought-provoking or life-altering but , for all practical purposes , are fun to watch . Paul Thomas Anderson was quoted as having said the only reason he cast Sandler in " Punch-Drunk Love " was due to the fact that he was a huge fan of Sandler's comedies , which he enjoyed viewing because they always put him in a good mood . I think this is about the best description of his work that you'll find , and pinpoints my own feelings . But once in a while Sandler will make a real turkey , and " You Don't Mess with the Zohan " is one of the worst . Ranking alongside " Anger Management " and " Little Nicky , " Zohan - - the character - - offers little to like or enjoy , and " Zohan " - - the movie - - is even worse . Sandler's character in " The Waterboy " was annoying but the film was still funny if you're in the right mood . " Zohan's " problem is that it has an unlikeable character put in very unfunny predicaments , and relies on truly lame social / cultural jokes . Sometimes these type of stereotypical jabs can be passable in the same way the crudeness of " Happy Gilmore " is somewhat endearing , but " Zohan " offers them in such a direct and unpleasant manner that you're really just left straining to try to laugh at most of this stuff . Jewish people are hairy and talk funny ? Americans don't know the difference between Saudi Arabia and Iraq ? People in the Middle East dress like it's still 1989 ? This is essentially the whole film's joke , rehashed over . . . and over . . . and over again . Zohan is not a strong character for Sandler . He's gimmicky , just like Little Nicky , but rather than feeling strongly one way or another about him - - I just felt indifferent . He's not funny , which is a crucial hindrance to a film proclaiming itself as a comedy . The movie is just very inept . I was surprised to find Dennis Dugan had directed it , because he's usually one of Sandler's better collaborators ; yet this film is totally amateurish and incomprehensible . There's no real plot , and John Turturro is thanklessly wasted as a scenery-chomping villain . Emmanuelle Chriqui is beautiful but ultimately she's another in Sandler's long line of underwritten romantic interests . These characters are more excusable in his better comedies like " Gilmore " because we know the romance is unrealistic to begin with and is only there to fit a mold , but Chriqui is so earnest in her performance and displays so much promise that you are left wanting her to have a better script to work with . Sandler should embrace the concept of stronger romantic leads in his films , because I think it would vastly improve the storyline . Since " Zohan " is so lazy in its story and its romantic subplot is tacked-on and pointless , the other flaws of the film - - primarily the lack of funny material - - become far clearer . Speaking of weak material : Adam Sandler and Mike Myers seem to have recently both arrived at the conclusion that penis and sex jokes can sustain an entire comedy . They can't . The first time we see Sandler naked , it's a forced chuckle . When he has sex with a friend's mother to thank her for dinner and hospitality , it's a lame attempt at Borat-style cultural comedy . When Zohan begins cutting elderly women's hair in blatantly sexual manners and takes them all into the back office of a hair salon one-by-one for a sex montage of sorts , you just want to throw up a bit . I'm shocked that Sandler actually thought this material was funny . If he was going for " gross-out " laughter , then he fails on all levels . It's not funny , it's not gross , it's just stupid and off-putting . This movie is ultimately just disappointing because of how dull it is and how hard it tries - - or perhaps doesn't try - - in its effort to make teenagers laugh . The only thing I ever really look for in a typical Adam Sandler comedy is a fair amount of silly throw-away gags , raunchy or not . But " Zohan " can't even deliver on this - - its only real purpose . Hopefully Sandler and Myers will both grow out of this awkward sex-jokes-only phase of their careers . The underperforming box office results of both " Zohan " and " The Love Guru " may help them realize this sooner rather than later .
Come on , guys , let's be honest - - it's really bad .	I saw this film because it was a labor of love by Bill Hicks and his best buddy , Kevin Booth . They filmed it over a number of years with home video equipment and it ( clearly ) had no budget at all . However , looking it up on IMDb I am surprised to find a rating , and I know this must be due to the Bill Hicks cult fans out there voting " 10 " for this without even seeing it . Look , Bill Hicks or not , this film stinks ! I'm not trying to bash it for no reason - I have plenty . First off , it's just not very funny . The quality is so poor and most of the " jokes " are just lame things . Oh , wow , the audio is dubbed poorly and out of synch , and they re-dubbed in post-production to make it look like a foreign ninja movie ! Haha that's so clever ! Well guess what ? " Kung Pow : Enter the Fist " did the same thing years later and was trashed by critics . What's the difference here ? Nothing - - except its budget is even lower and therefore the fake dubbing is even more annoying . Is Bill Hicks good in this ? Not really . He plays a ninja expert who teaches some helpless addict kid to beat people up . Oh my , I'm bursting a gut laughing just thinking about it . NOTE : IMDb reviewer " ganryu " has replied to my review with one of his own . He mocks my comparison of this film to " Kung Pow " and claims that if I liked that film it's no wonder I didn't like this . Obviously ganryu cannot read or comprehend because he would have realized my comparison with Kung Pow - which I never said I liked here - was only to point out how much more annoying the fake-dubbing effect is on a lower budget production . Ganryu even goes so far to point out Kung Pow had a $10 , 000 , 000 budget and Ninja Bachelor Party did not - which is ironic since this was my entire point in the first place - Kung Pow was annoying to begin with , so just imagine how much more annoying seeing the same thing is on a shoestring budget . Maybe ganryu should study English .
This is just another mediocre thriller that we've seen a million times before , parading as something it isn't . It's mediocre at best .	The problem with " Mercury Rising " is that every scene is handled mediocre at best , and the film never tries to become anything it isn't . Bruce Willis plays an ex-undercover FBI agent . At one time he had been undercover at a bank robbery , and two teenagers were killed when the FBI busted in and started shooting . Willis blamed himself , and lost his undercover spot for punching the man who made the call to shoot everyone . Now he is a stakeout FBI agent doing nothing . Until a call comes in . An autistic child's parents have been killed . It looks like the father shot the mother then shot himself . And they can't find the kid . Willis does find the child ( Miko Hughes ) , eventually , in the back of the child's closet , and takes him to the hospital . But then Willis finds out that NSA man Alec Baldwin is trying to have the child killed because he cracked a million-something-dollar government code . Uh oh . This movie was slightly entertaining in the beginning , but then it started to become quite long and dreary , ranking in at a whopping two hours ( at least on television ) . Willis mumbles every badly-written line helplessly , Alec Baldwin is the same as always , and Miko Hughes is probably the best actor . I thought he was bad at acting autistic at first , but I don't want to say that because he may very well BE autistic . The dialogue is right out of a one-dimensional , manipulative film with no respect for the audience . " His parents were killed be a real bad man , " Willis mumbles to someone . Wow . A real bad man . Nicely put , Bruce ! But I can't blame Brucey - - he didn't write this film . The credit goes to someone who is probably working at a McDonald's right about now . Things that happen later in the film are so contrived and predictable it is utterly mind-boggling . Willis meets a woman in a restaurant and asks her to watch the kid a minute . We're just waiting for them to go back to her apartment and start making out . And what do you know , later Willis looks her up , lets her in on what's going on , and asks to stay at her apartment . Wow . I wasn't expecting that . You know those really dumb , manipulative , slow-paced thrillers that are just ridiculous and boring ? " Domestic Disturbance " and " Striking Distance " just popped into my mind . Those movies are both completely mediocre and nothing more . Well , " Striking Distance " at least " Domestic Disturbance " was just plain awful . Anyway , that's what " Mercury Rising " is . And you know those made-for-TV thrillers that are always on ? That's what " Mercury Rising " is . I don't know what it is about these films that just make them so corny . . . boring . . . mediocre . It just pops out at you when you're watching them . Mediocrity at large . If you see this movie , I would turn it off after an hour . It starts to become mind-numbingly bad and over-the-top . Not worth wasting your time on , overall . This is just another mediocre thriller that we've seen a million times before , parading as something it isn't . It's mediocre at best . stars - John Ulmer , March 28 , 2003
Disappointing	The first " Jeepers Creepers " was a good horror film . It was entertaining and director Victor Salva didn't give in to his typical cinematic fetishes ( I won't mention them all here - last time I did my review wasn't approved ) . Anyway , the first film was a huge success and Francis Ford Coppola essentially said , " Take as much money as you want for the sequel ! " And Salva tricked him and made a movie loaded with blunt gayness . I'll put a little note here : I submitted a review of this film yesterday that was about eight hundred words long , and IMDb never posted it - I assume because of my constant references to pedophile Victor Salva and his links to the Creeper in the film . I used the words " gay , " " lust , " " sweaty , " " pee " and " homoerotic " a few too many times I assume , so this time I'll keep it to a minimum . I won't say anything other than this : - Teenagers in high school do not pee in circles and comment on each other's " attributes , " if you get what I'm saying . - The Creeper goes after all the sweaty shirtless high school males instead of the three females on the bus . By the way , all the females in the movie are pretty ugly and never strip down - this says something important , because unnecessary nudity is a primal element of any straight man's horror film . - In the beginning , the Creeper abducts a young boy - instead of choosing the plump father or the older son . - He licks the bus window and makes suggestive movements towards the boys inside . - The boys sunbathe shirtless alongside each other , ignoring the three girls inside the bus . . . . and this stuff could go on forever but I don't want to upset the IMDb comment approvers . Suffice to say , this movie gave me really weird vibes and I felt like I was watching Victor Salva's personal home video collection . It's all about sweaty shirtless guys peeing together and being pursued by a monster who likes little boys . It's just a bit too close to reality in Salva's case to be an effective horror film .
A really mediocre film that suffers from poor direction	Roger Spottiswoode isn't the worst director , and he did a good job on the underrated sci-fi thriller " The Sixth Day " ( a . k . a . " The Box Office Downfall of Mr . Schwarzenegger " ) . However , " Air America " has to be one of his most inept projects . It comes across as an amalgamation between drama , comedy and war film - it's not a very convincing mix . In fact , I found it to be overbearing . Robert Downey , Jr . ( during his heyday ) stars as a pilot recruited into a top secret CIA organization operating during Laos in the Vietnam era . Mel Gibson plays his co-pilot and he stumbles upon the knowledge that they're trafficking drugs , and what not . The movie was hyped on release because it starred two famous faces and Aerosmith had re-recorded the Doors classic " Love Me Two Times " for the soundtrack . The redo of the song is pretty poor , which suits the film .
Look Closer	There's more to this movie than t & a . It was really made famous during its release because Tom and Nicole split . I doubt this was coincidental - they knew that splitting would cause more controversy over an already-controversial film . I'm not saying that they only split up because they wanted more attention for their film , but I have a feeling that they would have split up much sooner if not for the film . ( Rumor has it they were bickering during filming and had to have instructions on how to create sexual tension , although Cruise - always quick to put down lurking insinuations of his sexuality - denied this . ) It is the late , great Stanley Kubrick's last film , and one of his worst , but it is unfairly regarded as an X-rated R-rated movie ( so to speak ) when it really is a piece of tame masterwork . It's not as great as A CLOCKWORK ORANGE ( 1973 ) , 2001 ( 1968 ) or my personal favorite of Kubrick's , THE SHINING ( 1980 ) , but it's better than FULL METAL JACKET ( 1987 ) and beautifully filmed . The plot : Cruise and Kidman are married in the film . She admits to him one night after getting stoned that she almost slept with a military figure years ago , so her husband haves a minor breakdown and slips into a bizarre sexual odyssey . The movie is packed with nudity and sex and even the advertising had an aroma of sleaze surrounding it , but it really is an important piece of work , and significant in the fact that it was Kubrick's final farewell to cinema . I wouldn't say it's underrated but I think that it's misinterpreted - it's far more than just a sleazy sex story with two huge sex symbols . Sure , watching Nicole shed her clothes off is great , but to say that's the ONLY point of the film is absurd . Quoting the tagline for AMERICAN BEAUTY : " Look closer . . . "
Really , really bad	This was Brandon Lee's second-to-last movie and it shows he was developing a sense of what it takes to star in an action movie . The problem is that the film itself is a total waste . According to IMDb , Lee wanted John Woo to direct the film but they cast someone else because they feared American audiences wouldn't go see a John Woo movie . I wonder whose butt they kicked when " Mission : Impossible 2 " became one of the highest grossing films of all time and " Rapid Fire " not only flopped back in ' 92 , but to this day is almost entirely forgotten . Yeah , the direction is bad . At least Woo might have made it more stylish and exciting . Here it's dry and the dialogue is jilted and corny . The script plays like How to Write an Action Movie 101 : everything that happens , we have already anticipated far ahead of time . Brandon Lee isn't a bad actor but he's probably been overrated slightly due to his tragic death . As with many film stars such as Belushi , Farley et al , the dead gain reputations despite whether they really deserved them or not . ( In the case of Belushi , yes . In the case of Farley , no . ) " Rapid Fire " is a poor action movie with only so-so acting and a rather boring plot line and really weak dialogue . I wouldn't recommend it unless you enjoy drilling a hammer through your temple , because it might make you want to do that to stop the pain of viewing .
Crude , juvenile , and just not very entertaining	" Adam Sandler's Eight Crazy Nights " could have been a really sweet Christmas story with a heartwarming message at its core . Instead , it's a vile , heartless animated feature that swerves back and forth between naughty and nice , not sure what to become . Take , for instance , the scene towards the end , when the mayor of Dukesbury ( voiced by Kevin Nealon ) cracks a very unfunny joke in the town hall , and the citizens of Dukesbury start to snort snot all over their tables , and some deer outside get in such a violent fit of laughter that feces squirts from behind their tails with little splurt sounds . Does that sound like a good-natured family comedy to you ? That's because it isn't . The film stars , in one way or another , Adam Sandler , who has finally found a suitable medium to let loose all his crudeness without ( a ) getting the film banned from every country in the world , and ( b ) injuring himself in the process . Because there's something innocent about cartoons . In " Eight Crazy Nights , " his self-crafted character , Davey Stone , is on the run from the town police after ripping off a Chinese man ( voiced by Rob Schneider ) . He picks up the lid of a trashcan and slides down a railing like Vin Diesel did in " xXx . " It's funny to see a limitless and physically fit Sandler , yes , but right as the scene starts to become fun , we get a worn out gag involving squeezed melons that has been done countless times before , including last year's " Austin Powers in Goldmember . " Davey resents the holidays , and he especially resents the " eight crazy nights " of Hanukkah , because when he was 12 years old his parents died on their way to his basketball game . Ever since , Davey has been the town troublemaker , getting stoned ( hence his last name ? ) and making out with cars . ( Don't ask . ) Davey gets picked up by the cops and is sentenced to ten years in jail , when the town eccentric , Whitey ( also voiced by Sandler ) , offers the judge to make Davey a basketball referee in hopes of changing his ill spirits . The judge agrees , but as soon as Davey leaves court he throws Whitey into a porta-potty and knocks it down a hill . Whitey emerges with human feces all over his body , and Davey then sprays him with water , saying , " See ya ' later , poopsicle . " That's why the film careens from gross-out gags to heartwarming moments and then back to juvenile bodily function jokes . You've probably heard a lot of people complain about bodily function humor and how bad it is , but this will disgust the most crude and vile audience members . I did for me . ( Hey , I'm joking ! About being crude . Er . . . never mind . ) A lot of people hate Adam Sandler and his humor , but I think they're just all jumping on the bandwagon . Ironically , his " breakthrough role " in P . T . Anderon's 2002 art film " Punch-Drunk Love " has been praised as his crowning triumph . I , personally , still enjoy " Happy Gilmore " and " Big Daddy . " His comedies are very basic but also , on occasion , very funny . I also like " Saturday Night Live " - type humor a lot , so that may have something to do with it . Is " Eight Crazy Nights " a bad movie ? I guess . It's hard to place a finger on . It's mean-spirited and vile , and that's where the film fails , but when the film has its touching moments they are touching . Too bad it always has to ruin the mentioned scenes by ending them with lame poop and / or seizure jokes . Again , don't ask .
Could have been much better	" 54 " is a film based on the infamous " Studio 54 " of the 1970s - the hangout for the social elite and party clubbers . In the film , Ryan Phillippe is the main character , based on an actual employee of Studio from 1977 - 1982 . The film's problem is that it's all glitter and style and no substance . It tries to be a really grimy and probing satire like " Boogie Nights " but ultimately comes across as an inferior wannabe . Mike Myers is given the thankless task of playing cocaine-snorting club owner Steve Rubell . It's only a slightly comedic role and if this was Myers ' best attempts at sliding into drama like Lemmon and other comedic actors did in their time , it's a total failure . " 54 " could have been insightful and interesting but instead it's just another dumb teen flick that isn't entertaining or even remotely engaging . View at your own peril .
Weak	A so-called " spy spoof " that has James Belushi playing Agent Royce , who is called out of duty after the Cold War and sent on a new mission by his boss , played by Peter Boyle ( who was in another James Belushi movie called " Red Heat , " also starring Arnold Schwarzenegger ) . Not very funny , and as much as I enjoy watching James Belushi do his thing in comedies , he doesn't work as a leading man in a spy caper . Watching him tote a gun and rescue hostages is sort of sad . This is not very funny and is a poor imitation of " True Lies , " released the same year .
He's back . I'm bored .	Sigh The original " Halloween , " released in 1976 , was an instant classic and solidified John Carpenter as one of the horror genre's most promising new talents . Unfortunately , the success of the film spawned a series of dire and predictable sequels , all progressively worse than their predecessors . Although " Halloween 5 : The Revenge of Michael Myers " ( odd , its full title isn't included on IMDb ? ) is far from the atrocity of the sixth entry ( which is downright horrendous ) , it's still a long fall from the original . Basically everyone's favorite masked killer Michael Myers survives the police shootout from " III " and embarks on a mission to kill his niece , who is in a children's home . Donald Pleasence yet AGAIN tries to work everyone of his imminent return , but yet AGAIN no one believes him . Ultimately : If you've seen one " Halloween " movie , you've seen them all .
Silly crude humor that isn't very funny - - makes " South Park " look sophisticated	Although I am not by any means obsessed with " South Park , " I do think it's a very funny show and the film adaptation was hilarious . Trey Parker and Matt Stone can be quite funny and I thought certain scenes of " Team America " were genius . ( And others . . . not so much . ) But their second film outing , " Orgazmo , " has to be their weakest effort . I expected a clever and crude satire of the porn industry - - instead I just got stupid crude humor without many laughs . I did chuckle a few times , at some jokes that were so obvious and over-the-top and juvenile that they hit the funnybone if you're in an amiable mood . But this is very selective taste and I'm sure most people wouldn't even find the silly jokes funny . Joe Young ( Parker ) is a Mormon who is recruited to star in a series of porn films called " Orgazmo . " Essentially the film is a kick in the face to religion and caused a lot of controversy when it was released . The MPAA tagged it with an NC-17 rating and it flopped on release . It has a weak cult following now due to the success of Parker and Stone's reputations as funny troublemakers , but the fact is that " Orgazmo " really is just controversial for the sake of being so . It's not nearly as funny as it thinks it is . On top of that , the new DVD is a huge disappointment also . The cast commentary track is inaudible and barely distinguishable . The " Wild " commentary track is similarly hard to hear and pretty poor . When I read that Kevin Smith and Weird Al Yankovic were on the track I thought , " Wow . " Little did I know that they are split into separate groups and only on the track for about ten minutes each . Yankovic is the funniest but most of his jokes are lame . Smith has never seen " Orgazmo " and only relays a story of how he used to hate Trey Parker and Matt Stone , and his audio is recorded from a telephone conversation . The documentaries are stupid and poor and the rest of the special features are just plain lame . Overall , a really disappointing experience .
Pretty awful	This was a made-for-TV movie a few years back when comic book adaptations were just starting to make a name for themselves with films such as " X-Men " raking in all the cash at the box office . Unfortunately " Witchblade " is just another cash-in and not at all unique - it is supposedly based on a comic book of the same name , but in all actuality , it's just plain lame . ( Hey , that rhymed ! ) Yancy Butler plays the lead character - a woman who inadvertently stumbles upon a magic " blade " that gives her superpowers to battle evildoers . Enter the Bad Guy Who Wants to Dominate the Earth and other comic book clichés - all in all it's pretty terrible . The acting isn't completely atrocious but it leaves a lot to be desired . The direction is poor and typically made-for-TV in style ; however it's the script that is particularly bad - annoying , banal , and packed with really bad dialogue . The fact that this " film " spawned a TV series is kind of surprising because it is basically just a poor cash-in on a rather obscure comic book that I had never even heard of . ( But then again , I don't read comics . ) View at your own peril .
Strangely entertaining	I was in a mediocre hotel in England , up at two in the morning and couldn't get to sleep . I decided to put the TV on and one of the first channels I flipped to was a show starring Christopher Lloyd . It looked pretty bad , but there was something about it that was strangely fascinating . . . I later found out that it was not actually a TV show , but rather a television movie . ( Wow , big difference . ) Christopher Lloyd plays Quicksilver , a mysterious old man who roams the country delivering moral tales . His first he delivers to a newlywed bride whose car has broken down , and whose husband has wandered away looking for a gas station . His tale involves a similar fate involving a man named Charlie ( Matt Frewer ) who picks up a hitchhiker and is nearly killed by him . The next involves a man whose hand is chopped off by his other hand ( ! ) and all the hands in the world start a revolt . Yes , it's as silly as it sounds , and hilarious to watch . The movie is perhaps unintentionally bad , but I was entertained . It's a very corny , silly movie that is easy to watch . The special effects are simply awful in the hand-attack narrative . I loved it . Lloyd is overacting ( or overREacting ? ) in a script full of clichés . Author Clive Barker and director John Landis even offer their not-so-subtle cameos . All in all , if you have nothing better to watch , this WILL keep you very entertained . . . a huge guilty pleasure .
Poorly made and dishonest	Having taken a slight interest in the story of Aileen Wuornos , I was appalled by " Monster " because it does no justice to her story . To be fair , Charlize Theron gives a good performance as Wuornos , but after seeing Nick Broomfield's " The Selling of a Serial Killer " ( 1992 ) I realized just how biased and dishonest the film adaptation " Monster " is . Patty Jenkins does have a clear agenda to push which is this : Aileen wasn't a bad person , it was men that made her that way because she was abused by them . It's true , yes , but that doesn't negate what she did - - she still murdered innocent people and " Monster " really tries to gloss over some of this . Second of all , my big problem with the film is that it spends so much unnecessary time on the relationship between Aileen and her lover , played by Christina Ricci . It's true , they were involved together , but the movie stops midway to focus on the trials and tribulations - - trying to add depth to the characters - - and fails ( or at least it did for me ) because I soon lost interest in the " love story . " In fact this is yet another case of the film glossing over events - - most of the stuff involving the two in this movie is completely made up . I would have preferred a less biased viewpoint on the matter . Although Broomfield's documentary is also very biased ( on Channel 4 he even provided a post-chapter where he explains Aileen was just troubled and not aware of what she was doing ) it is far more truthful to Aileen's story . Her story is a true American tragedy and to see it glossed over by Hollywood like this , added on top of lies and a biased agenda , is really a shame . A lot of people are going to disagree with me on this but I can't hide my dislike for " Monster " and the disappointment I suffered after seeing it .
Terrible !	A little boy who lives in a luxurious hotel ( his father , Jason Alexander , owns it ) has no friends and lives a miserable life until a monkey ( or , to be more accurate , an orangutan ) walks in one day and becomes his new best buddy . Cue lots of stupid physical humor , shots of surprised guests shocked at the prospect of seeing a monkey in a rich hotel , more shots of disgust from the struggling father ( Alexander doing his George Costanza ) , and Faye Dunaway looking old . This is a really terrible movie for children . It says that if you don't have any friends , you should get a monkey and be really destructive and ruin your father's business - because rich people suck .
Poor Kevin .	Like all futuristic / post-apocalyptic action movies , " The Postman " opens up with people dressing like they did in the 1800s . Kevin Costner looks like he rode in off the set of " Dances for Wolves " seven years late . The year is 2013 , the world is a mess and its inhabitants have destroyed their land . A crippling war has taken place , we are led to believe , which has killed the government . So , it makes sense that instead of just Americans being left hopeless , the entire world is affected , too . Gotta love Hollywood . Anyway , this group of outlaws called Hedonists or something captures Kevin Costner and he's forced to join their group ( don't ask why , maybe they're gay ) . He escapes and finds a skeleton with a postal uniform and takes it to keep warm . He also finds a mailbag with letters and begins to trick people into thinking the letters are for them . But soon he feels sympathetic towards them and decided to take on the Hedonists once and for all ! ( Gotta love manipulative plots . ) Kevin Costner is so bad in this movie and this movie is so bad for Kevin Costner . The entire script reeks of " Mad Max " syndrome , only it's about fifteen years late . It comes across , ultimately , as a very bad rip-off of other - and better - post-apocalyptic movies . When the producers started considering making their hero a postman . . . well . . . I think that's when they should have realized they were heading for the gutter .
Really . . . bad .	I'm not sure how this is considered by some people to be a " classic " horror film . It is one of the better horror films released in the 1980s , but that's not saying much in the era of a gazillion sequels per franchise and films like " Boogeyman " and " Critters . " " Friday the 13th " is a poorly made movie . The acting is awful , the direction is bad , the chills n ' thrills don't even deliver much - it's not all that spooky , even when taken as a " low budget " movie . Before you slam me for criticizing a semi-independent film - John Carpenter managed to make a classic on a low budget too ( " Halloween " ) ; his film was similar in approach ( masked killer goes on a murderous rampage ) but about a hundred times better . " Friday the 13th " is laughable . It's just poorly done and even the editing is sloppy . Okay , it's got a few entertaining parts , but more so because they're so bad they're funny . The ending is an absolute hoot and not scary at all . The " surprise " revelation is a shock - if you haven't ever seen any other horror movies , namely " Psycho . " It's the same thing , only in reverse . As a side note , I watched it on AMC's so-called " DVD _ TV " last night , which features trivia facts about the film on the screen as you watch the film itself . According to them , the actress who played Jason's mother considered herself to be a great method actor , and she thought the script was " crap . " She took the job to afford a new car but managed to let everyone know she was better than them on the set ; she also claimed in an interview that she almost got lost on the way to the set the first day , and she didn't know " what they would have done " if she hadn't shown up . Talk about self-infatuation ! Oh , and in case she's ever reading this while following up on her theatrical efforts and emailing her IMDb bio to her friends to brag - tracing a crappy Z-grade slasher character's roots back " to her high school days " isn't commendable when the character in question is a psychopathic nut with no real motivation ! And saying " Ki-ki ma-ma " isn't very subtle , either , just so you know .
A Total Rip-Off . . .	The Rage : Carrie 2Dumb sequel is a practical scene-for-scene mimic of the original with lesser actors , a lesser screenplay , and a lesser impact . Based on the novel by Stephen King writing as Richard Bachman ( originally titled " The Rage " ) , I can't believe King ever thought he could keep his alias a secret after releasing the book , which was identical to his original . The movie's even worse . / R ( violence , language , nudity )
One of the most overrated action films I've ever seen .	" Point Break " was named a hugely clever satire of male testosterone in my " Films of the ' 90s " book ( edited by Jurgen Muller ) . They claimed it was one of the finest films of the decade and placed it in their book of must-see ' 90s films , leaving out classics such as " Reservoir Dogs " and " Dumb and Dumber " ( yep , I'm joking about that one , but still ) . I couldn't believe what I was reading , and thought to myself , " Maybe I should see it again . " I vaguely recalled being disappointed in the film on first viewing years and years ago but nonetheless I decided to give it a second chance , taking into account the fact that it was a supposed tongue-in-cheek satire of male action flicks . Sadly , I only hated it even more . This has to be one of the most pretentious , stupid , poorly acted and written action movies of the 1990s . It would be fairly enjoyable as a no-brainer if not for the fact that it has gained some sort of reputation for being a " classic . " In my opinion , it is not a classic by any means . First of all , Kathryn Bigelow ( James Cameron's ex-wife ) falls victim to her excessive styling again ( later to be seen to an even greater extent in the bloated " Strange Days " in 1995 ) . The movie is too over-the-top . Paul Verhoeven found a good way to balance satire and excess in " RoboCop " ; " Point Break " shifts the weight and topples over into the realm of such Verhoeven errors as " Starship Troopers " and " Showgirls . " It's got that same sort of odd , over-done vibe seeing through every frame - - bright , vibrant colors , loud trashy music , and tons of gratuitous action , sex and violence . Keanu Reeves is one of the worst actors of all time . He redeemed himself ( somewhat ) in Gus Vant Sant's " My Own Private Idaho " in 1991 and then released this and totally negated his Shakespeare-adaptation efforts . His performance in " Point Break , " as an undercover cop , is laughably poor . Patrick Swayze delivers the most memorable performance , but - - and get this ! - - his character's name is a reference to Buddhism , as if the film is trying to somehow subtly imply he is like a Buddhist god . The problem is , it's not subtle at all ; especially considering the fact that they explain the meaning of his name in the film . The action is poorly staged ( or mediocre , anyway ) and Bigelow's trademark hand-held shots grow tiresome ( such as the overlong foot chase ) . The film is alright but then the ending goes on for too long ( just like " Strange Days " ) and worsens , leaving a sour aftertaste . It doesn't know when to finish , nor does it realize that satire is savored best when it is less than obvious . A huge disappointment , and one of the most overrated action films ( or so-called " satires " ) I've ever seen .
Poor Steve Martin	" Cheaper By the Dozen " would have at least been an amusing film if it hadn't already been made about a hundred times before . In the early stages of production I was actually misled into thinking it was a direct adaptation of the book , and was excited to see how they'd pull that off . Little did I know the title is all the film has in common with its source . Steve Martin plays Tom Baker , an average Joe with twelve kids who drive him insane . When he decides to chase after the money and head out to the big city , his kids throw a fuss and protest by performing " hilarious " physical comedy that will " have you in stitches . " I suppose we're meant to sympathize with the little brats . The problem is that it's hard to find sympathy for the spawn of Satan . I felt like slapping the kids and throwing them out the window of a thousand-foot skyscraper . Ashton Kutcher makes a " delightful " cameo . Just what we need - another ugly mug from MTV grinning at the camera . What happened to Steve Martin ? Why on earth did he feel the need to star in this film ? Was it just the money ? Was it the prospect of pretending to have Bonnie Hunt as a wife ? Or was it trying to appeal to the masses again and using children's familiarity with Hilary Duff to reintroduce himself into the family market and therefore appeal to his own children ? Is he really that pathetic ? Please , Steve . . . come back . . . we miss you . Stop doing this . Do you really want to end up like Eddie Murphy ? Oh , wait . Too late .
Wasted Potential . . .	Next of KinThere's a lot of potential wasted here in this story of a redneck ( Liam Neeson ) whose big city brother ( Bill Paxton in a brief cameo ) is killed by crime lords ( including a very young Ben Stiller ) . Taking revenge into his own hands , the redneck makes the trek to the big city and there finds his other brother , a cop ( Patrick Swayze ) , doing virtually nothing about the case . Swayze tries to stop his brother from comitting murder - - vengeance is up to the law - - but he won't hear any of it . This could have been an amazing sort of culture clash revenge movie fueled by some great performances ( we've got a top-notch cast here ! ) , but it's wasted because the film is ( a ) too long , ( b ) too stupid , and ( c ) far too inept to notice that the potential for great film is somewhere deep down below . What a disappointment . Rated R for violence and language .
Entertaining because it's so poor	Ironically this film was on ABC Family Channel last night , despite its R-rating for graphic violence , language and sexuality . I know it was on pretty late , but still . . . I watched it because I saw Ron Livingston's face and figured it couldn't be THAT bad . . . well , I was wrong , and now I've lost my faith in Livingston . He tries to do a northern accent and fails miserably . It sounds like a cross between Al Pacino in " Carlito's Way " and Sylvester Stallone in " Rocky . " Honestly , it's that bad . This is supposed to be a collection of " modern twists " on classic urban legends . . . it's got it all : Livingston's segment is the one where the newlyweds are in the car that breaks down ; the guy gets out and never comes back , then the woman starts to worry and . . . well . . . you know the rest . It's not particularly scary or well-acted . It's kind of entertaining because it's so bad - it reminded me of the similar collection entitled " Quicksilver Highway . " If you liked that , you'll probably at least find some type of entertainment value here .
Dang . Overlooked By the Academy AGAIN !	" Pokemon the First Movie : Mewtwo Strikes Back " is not exactly low 100 material for IMDb , but it is pretty bad . I guess kids would like it if they like the show , but you'd have to be a pretty die hard fan . I guess that's why it's on the low 100 . No plot , no good characters , no interesting parts . Well , maybe some " original " parts , but nothing great . I think what really ruined this film was that awful Pika-Pika-whatever intro about some lightning creature and a bunch of Pokemen / mon . Otherwise , I feel this film would have an average rating of 4 instead of 3 . 3 . stars - John Ulmer
You'll need anger management after seeing this movie . Well , not really , but it's only so-so . . .	It's funny how buddy movies have transformed over the years . During the eighties there was a supply and demand for cop-buddy films , such as " 48 Hrs . , " " Red Heat , " and even " Turner and Hootch . " During the nineties there was a supply and demand for road comedy movies , for the most part . And now there seems to be a supply of Adam Sandler movies , with half-and-half demand . The younger crowds love him , and usually the older hoards of people despise him . In " Anger Management , " Sandler tries his hand at a buddy formula . It works on occassion , is at often times quite humorous , but fails to deliver what I really expected until the last thirty minutes , which finally gets some nice laughs in on a consistent basis . Sandler plays Dave Buznik , a generally peaceful young man who is flying on business . On the flight , Dave sits next to Buddy Rydell ( Jack Nicholson ) , an obnoxious loudmouth ( or so it appears at first glance ) who insists that Dave should watch the in-flight movie Buddy himself is watching . Dave asks a flight attendant for a set of headphones , the stewardess starts chatting up a friend , the headphones never come . Dave asks again , and suddenly the stewardess is asking him not to yell . The next thing he knows , he's in an anger management program for assaulting a flight attendant , even though he simply touched her arm to stop her from walking away down the aisle , ignoring him . Big surprise for Dave when he finds out the anger management program is run by Buddy Rydell , who invites Dave to an anger group , comprised of Chuck ( John Turturro ) , a crazy man who believes everyone hates him , Lou ( Luis Guzman ) , who is gay , and two female lovers . Dave , who is not angry nor crazy , starts to think everyone else is , as Buddy moves into his apartment and even follows him to work . This of course gets in the way of his relationship with his girlfriend , Linda ( Marisa Tomei ) , who says they need to have some " time apart . " You can expect what happens in the rest of the film . I was disappointed in this film overall . The first thirty minutes were painfully unfunny and predictable . The end somewhat redeems itself , but still doesn't make the film as great as it could have been given the potential . The cast is stellar , ranging from Nicholson to Kevin Nealon to an uncredited cameo by Heather Graham . I found it humorous that most of the cast has been in P . T . Anderson's films : Heather Graham , Luis Guzman , and Adam Sandler have all been in at least one of Anderson's films . But a great cast cannot always save a movie , and though " Anger Management " has a lot going for it , the film itself fails to go where it should . I actually DO like Adam Sandler , but this movie was unfortunately just so-so and nothing more . - John Ulmer out of
Lame sequel to a lame movie	I'm a big fan of Arnie . I've never liked any of the " Conan " films . I think they're both campy , stilted , poorly acted , silly , unimaginative , dire , boring . I don't like swords-and-sworcery flicks , either , so maybe that has something to do with my dislike for the movies . Arnie returned in 1984 after the success of the first film to play Conan again . The sad fact ? The first film was at least rated R - this is friggin ' PG ! Which means no blood , no guts , no sex , no unnecessary brutal shots of decapitation and gruesome murders . ( Kidding about the last two . Or am I ? ) Arnie didn't like this film when it was released and supposedly didn't even want to film it . It didn't flop , surprisingly - overseas it did better than in the States ( as many of Arnie's films that performed badly in the US did - including " End of Days " ) but it probably deserved to . It's even worse than the first film , which I for one thought was quite boring to begin with .
Dull , and very disappointing	The original " Producers " is one of my favorite films - it's clever , original and - at the time - it was also fairly controversial ( keep in mind it came out at the end of the ' 60s ) . It proved Mel Brooks had comedic genius inside him ( even if his later career faltered somewhat ) and the musical numbers were as funny as the dialogue . The remake is dull - in more than just one way . The acting , directing and staging is all very routine , uninspired and - to be honest - lazy . Matthew Broderick may have been great as Leo Bloom on Broadway , but the stage is not the same as sitting in a movie cinema . It basically seems as if director Susan Stroman decided it would be best to not direct the film at all and instead sit back at a distance with the camera and let the audience _ pretend _ to be at a Broadway showing . ( Hence the movie's extended title , " The Movie Musical . " ) At a result , Broderick's acting seems hammy , over-the-top and even rather annoying . The scene with his security blanket is an exact replica of a scene in the original with Gene Wilder , and Broderick even imitates Wilder's facial contortions , but it seems like a bad drunken imitation rather than a convincing one . Nathan Lane is better , but still not a scene-stealer . The real stars of this are Will Ferrell ( as the Nazi playwright ) and Uma Thurman ( as the Swedish secretary ) - Ferrell's musical number , an ode to Hitler , is hilarious . The other musical sequences go on far too long . And because we're not in an audience watching this stuff appear on stage , the spectacle is gone . I went to see " Guys and Dolls " with Ewan McGregor in London last year - it was amazing because it was a live experience , with a dizzying array of lights and effects , and also very effective stage transitions . But when you see a musical on film the spectacle is lost . The director has to know how to add to it in a cinematic way - look at Baz Luhrman's " Moulin Rouge " or the original " Producers " - there was a cinematic grandness there ; Luhrman and Brooks realized they were working with a different medium . Stroman - a novice director - lacks this fundamental understanding , and instead presents us with the equivalent of a PBS recording of " Joseph's Technicolor Dreamcoat " - a direct recording of a play with no cinematic appeal . I like " The Producers , " I like the music , I like Broderick and Lane ( on stage ) , I like Brooks ' writing here ( the opening is better than the original movie ) - but the directing and editing really ruins this .
Filmgoers ' Least Wanted .	The idea behind " Malibu's Most Wanted " came from a television show starring Jamie Kennedy named , of all things , " The Jamie Kennedy Experiment " - - and it shows . I'm a big fan of the show , and I'm starting to become a big fan of the actor , and so I was thrilled to hear he had his own movie based on the hilarious television show last year . I waited quite a while to see the movie even though I had heard bad things about it . Unfortunately , perhaps some of the charm behind his B-Rad character on the TV show was that he got candid responses from startled people - - here the responses are all scripted , and they don't work half as well as they should . On the television show , Kennedy dresses up as a various assortment of odd characters and goes around tormenting people in character . His most famous of characters , B-Rad ( a white rapper based on Eminem ) , was a highlight of the TV show . Here the character is inserted into his own world and given a background . It starts out with a voice-over narration by Brad Gluckman ( Kennedy ) , a . k . a . B-Rad . He says that he lives in the rough turf of Miami . ( We get an aerial shot of a huge mansion resort by the ocean . He informs us , " That's my crib . It ain't much , but it's all I gots . " ) B-Rad hangs out with a band of rich kids who try desperately - - much like B-Rad himself - - to be gangstas . Their insults to one another are typically , " Your momma so poor , her [ breasts ] are real ! " They all have excessively nice clothing , vehicles , homes , gadgets , and so on , but like to pretend they've got it rougher than they really do . ( In one of the better scenes , B-Rad informs us via voice-over that one of his crew , " even went to public for a while . " ) B-Rad's father , Bill Gluckman ( Ryan O'Neal ) is running for governor of California . ( Sound familiar ? ) His son is posing as a serious threat to his public image - - at the unveiling of his new women's rights campaign , B-Rad reveals a sign that reads , " BILL GLUCKMAN'S DOWN WITH THE BTCHES AND HO'S ! " - - and so the campaign manager cooks up a crazy idea that might just work . They hire two Juilliard-graduate black men to take B-Rad down into the ghetto , pose as gangsters , and " scare the white out of him . " The two men , Sean ( Anthony Anderson ) and PJ ( Taye Diggs ) dress up with bling-bling and look through a book that reads , " A 2 Z Gangsta Slang . " After becoming comfortable with their new dialogue , they kidnap B-Rad , take him to their house , and try to scare the white out of him . Not everything goes to plan . " Malibu's Most Wanted " essentially has some funny scenes , but they are scattered . I laughed at the reference to " Training Day . " I laughed when , after a violent shoot-out , a thug gangster asks B-Rad where he learned his shooting skills and he responds , " Grand Theft Auto III . " I also laughed at the way B-Rad's gang like to trick themselves into thinking they have it real bad with their rich parents and nice lifestyes . I laughed at little else . Surprising , really , because I loved the television so much and I have been looking forward to this , like I said above , for quite some time . I believe if they had put more effort into this film it would have been much better . If they had gotten a stronger director with a better sense of actual direction and consistency , made the script's humor aim more for irony of rich kids wanting to be rough thugs and how different they are ( and this could have worked easily with a strong scriptwriter who finds a flair for the irony in situations ) , and found a talented cast to put alongside the scene-stealing Kennedy , this could have been one of the real treats of 2003 . But it's not . The premise may sound stupid but if you really think about it , the plot is quite clever - - given the right touch of irony and realisticness , it could have been a classic example of contrast film . But this movie trips down the rabbit hole and never returns - - it eventually gets so wacky and goofy you just kind of give up all hope in the film . " Malibu's Most Wanted " is a film that looked much better on paper - - I should know , I read the script . It was laugh-out-loud funny . But when I watched the film , I realized that the jokes were handled poorly and the direction inept . It was a typical summer comedy - - the cheap kind that have that cheap smell about them that reeks of nothing but money-making . Jamie Kennedy is a talented comedian with a very bright future ahead of him . He did not need this on his resume . .
Rob Zombie tries to give a monster a soul .	On paper , a " Halloween " remake looked interesting . Zombie tries to go back to the character's origin and reinvent him - it's a recent trend in Hollywood ( " Batman Begins , " " Casino Royale , " the upcoming " Incredible Hulk , " etc . ) , so it's not quite surprising that Hollywood greenlit the project and it got the push it received . But the problem that arises while doing this with " Halloween " is that it comes into conflict with the concept of Michael being purely evil . Although I can understand what Zombie was trying to do by exploring Michael's background , it contradicts the whole point of the original . By providing a reason and displaying a human character on screen , you give the character a soul - and despite what Zombie may claim , this does NOT make Michael scarier . It makes him an average movie serial killer : a guy with a messed up life as a kid who snaps one day and goes on a killing rampage . Is it scary ? No . Gory ? Yes . Realistic ? At first . And if it were a movie about a serial killer , it would work . But it's not . This is a movie about a monster , a soulless creature ; a boogeyman , as per the original film . Monsters aren't scary when we know they're flesh and blood . Carpenter had a way of framing the action in the original movie . Michael stalks Laurie in her hometown , but we never see any real flesh behind the mask , we never really see him moving around like a normal human being . But we do here . He stands in the middle of an open road , in front of three teenage girls walking home from school , and they all see him . He stands there for a few moments , then trudges away off-screen . We actually see him walk away , instead of just appearing and disappearing as he did in the original film . Which method is scarier ? The answer is clear . Zombie spends 40 minutes or so building up Michael's character before he escapes from the ward . We see him killing animals as a child ( and torturing them , too ) , a stupid subplot with his mom as a stripper and a typical school bully , and a promiscuous sister . The sexual talk is frank and disgusting - the mom's boyfriend ( husband ? ) is talking about how cute her daughter's butt is , and at this point in the film we're not sure whether he might even be the father . It's just shock for shock value . Zombie has a tendency of this - blunt violence and blunt dialogue combined - and in a film like this , it seems cheap and fake and unnecessary . The heavy emphasis placed on the swearing - and I mean this literally ( as in , the actors place a noticeable emphasis on the profanity they use ) is almost unintentionally funny . Zombie cast his wife in the role of Michael's mother , and she can't act at all . Donald Pleasence got stuck with the most unfortunate lines from the original film , but we were willing to forgive bad dialogue because of how well-made the film was otherwise . Here , Malcolm McDowell gets the worst of two worlds : he gets to handle an under-characterization with bad , bad , BAD dialogue AND a generally weak film to boot . The sequences with McDowell's version of Loomis are all completely clichéd - Zombie clearly writes his dialogue based on other films ' dialogue . The " intimate " scenes at the mental ward between Loomis and Michael are awful . McDowell struggles with typicalities of the genre , such as the Dr . Who Wasted His Own Life By Devoting It To Someone Else's ( he explains to Michael that his wife left him and he has no friends because of how involved he became with the case - and the dialogue itself is straight from any cop-vs . - killer flick ) . The recent film " Zodiac " had a similar theme of men losing their personal lives due to obsession over a murderer , but it was handled better . The whole Loomis character should have been dropped from the remake if all Zombie wanted to do with him was use him as a deus ex machina , by the way . Overall , this feels like a redneck version of " Halloween , " which is going to offend some people , but I can't think of any better way to describe it . It's trashy , vulgar , and silly - and hey , that's fine , if that's Rob Zombie's motif and he wants to make movies pandering towards that sort of audience . I have nothing against it , and I think it may work with some films - I can imagine him making a good re-do of " Natural Born Killers " ( although I hope it never , never happens ! ) . However , when you're remaking an iconic , legendary , incredibly influential horror film - don't cheapen it by " reimagining " it with horror movie clichés and shock-value material . The very worst aspect of this remake is that it simply isn't scary at all - it's a typical slasher flick , a homicidal-man-on-a-rampage flick , which ironically is exactly what Zombie said he wanted to avoid . The first film was eerie , spooky , and unnerving because Michael's motivations were cloudy and we weren't sure whether Laurie was right or wrong when she said he was the boogeyman . We only knew one thing : he wasn't entirely human . But ever since that original movie , the filmmakers have attempted to keep expanding upon Michael's history : the second film developed a motivation for his killings ( Laurie was his sister ) , the fourth offered more clues at his background , and now we come full circle with a complete remake of the original film . Michael's true demonic core - the natural horror element of the series - is stripped bare and all that is left is a disturbed , abnormally tall redneck with greasy hair who hasn't showered in years wearing a silly mask going around killing people because he had an abusive family life as a child . Some things are better left unexplored .
Just plain sleazy and stupid .	I do not listen to Madonna . What I've heard I've enjoyed , but for the most part I don't go out of my way to hear her music . As an actress she's never really impressed me and personally some of the tabloid stuff has rubbed me the wrong way and I just don't find her interesting anymore . In general I find celebrities who rely on tabloids for regenerating popularity ( e . g . Paris Hilton ) despicable , and Madonna does this quite often . Just as the tabloids stopped carrying lies about her , she kisses Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera on-stage and we endure another year of tabloid speculation . " Truth or Dare " was a " documentary " made in 1991 that followed Madonna on her 1990 Blonde Ambition tour , which was highly controversial . This is where she did all sorts of sexual stuff on stage including ( simulating ) masturbation on the floor of the podium . The documentary is really sleazy and basically follows the sex goddess as she candidly discusses . . . sex . Wow , how original . One scene in the documentary has all the people on her music crew climbing into her bed and they talk about all sorts of taboo stuff and she gets two of the guys to kiss each other . It's not even interesting in a car-crash kind of way , where it's so shocking you can't take your eyes off it . It's just plain boring and controversial for the sake of being so . Seen 15 years later , it just looks outdated , smug and annoying .
Amateur-ish and just not very funny	For every good teen comedy there are about a hundred bad ones . " The New Guy " is one of the bad ones . That annoying guy from " The Core " plays Dizzy Harrison , nerdy high schooler who decides to leave and transfer to another school across town to re-establish himself as Gil Harris , a " cool kid " with bleached hair and leather jackets . The premise is stupid enough but then they pile on loud , obnoxious gags . And the scene where a big " revelation " is made about Gil / Dizzy is laughable at best . Overall if you've seen other teen comedies you've seen this before . There are two good scenes : - Tommy Lee's self-mocking cameo ( " Hey , where's the VIP room ? Girls ? " ) - The reference to the film " Pearl Harbor " floppingOther than that , it's all fairly basic and banal . D . J . Qualls - please don't ever star in a lead role ever again !
think that people should realize in the future , that just because a comedian is fat he is NOT John Candy !	' Black Sheep'In this basic rehash of ' Tommy Boy , ' an equally unimpressive comedy , David Spade plays an election aide who must watch over a candidate's brother , Chris Farley , a chubby , loudmouthed , obnoxious , loose cannon . If Farley gets in the spotlight for anything bad , like he usually does , the candidate's hopes for election are slim . So , Spade has the thankless task of hiding out with the fat man in a cabin somewhere in the middle of nowhere . But , of course , since this is a comedy , Farley gets away , and Spade , who cannot tell him why he's hiding him without hurting his feelings , drags along after Farley trying to convince him to come back . . . or something like that ? Despite being directed by ' Wayne's World ' director Penelope Spheeris , this film's very basic and juvenile comedy is nothing good . At all . The jokes ( if you can call them that ) almost all fall flat , and I rarely laughed . David Spade's character is a bland , dull , lifeless and immobile creature who we could not care for one way or another , no matter how bad things get . Chris Farley is just plain annoying , as always , with his off-the-wall antics and loudmouthed ' jokes ' that are more outbursts than anything else . I sometimes wonder if fellow ' SNL ' comedian Mike Myers was playing for more than just a disgusting character when he created Fat Basta ^ & ? for ' Austin Powers ' ? ' Black Sheep ' is the kind of movie that no one is talking about the next day . It is utterly forgettable and very , very , VERY basic . It's not an awful comedy , mind you , because I have seen much worse ; however , there is really nothing to recommend about ' Black Sheep . ' People said Chris Farley was the next John Candy , but John Candy will never be matched . John Candy's comedic talent lay in true comedy . He could make us laugh while making us cry . Candy was a good ? great ? comedian . He had all the traits of a one-in-a-million kind of actor . Farley , on the other hand , gained his laughs by making stupid outbursts , like ' I bought a kite from a bald guy ! ' that are so odd that people laugh at not because they are funny , but because they are odd . People should be glad that Farley died , because he would have worn out with America , just like David Spade did ; unfortunately , even good ' Saturday Night Live ' comedians like Dana Carvey , Kevin Nealon ( Hans and Franz ) etc . are all dying out . It's too bad that comedians who are usually remembered for being great are people like Farley ? annoying , loudmouthed slobs who hadn't an ounce of real comic talent in them . I think that people should realize , in the future , that just because a comedian is fat he is NOT John Candy . stars ? basic comedy ? John Ulmer
James Cameron's Worst Film ( Save " Piranha II " )	I'm a huge fan on James Cameron . I really like Ed Harris . " The Abyss , " however , was a stinker from a mile away . Right from the beginning , the film is ridiculous , and FAR too long . By the end of the film we are sitting , just waiting for this gosh-darned thing to get done with itself and move on , so we can watch " Terminator " and remind ourselves of how well Cameron's films USUALLY are . The end ( though I won't ruin it ) was ridiculous , and left my jaw slacked , just wondering how a great director like James Cameron could have made a film so worthless as " The Abyss " ! stars-John Ulmer
Proof That Taylor Hackford Is A Hack Who Makes Crap .	I doubt something like this would be made nowadays with the state of the world ( and the fact that so many Americans have been captured , held hostage , and murdered ) . However , this was released a year before it all started on September 11th , 2001 - - and chances are we'll never see a movie like this again for quite some time . Which is a shame , since this isn't a fond farewell to the sub-genre . First of all the film's plot - - about the husband of a woman ( Meg Ryan ) being captured by terrorists , held hostage , hopeless , attempted to be saved by a professional something-or-other ( Russell Crowe ) - - isn't very interesting . It's filmed in that modern " grain " filter that was once unique when Ridley Scott implemented it but is now quickly becoming tiring after a million films have used it ( take note of this Steven Soderbergh ) in an effort to make their hand-held-recorded shaky prints seem " realistic " and " gritty . " It just causes migraines after a while . The acting is sub-par , all considered ( Ryan seems drowsy and Crowe is annoying and one-dimensional as always ) , and the movie's main fault is that it's just helplessly , endlessly boring . I wasn't interested and had to literally pry my eyelids open to stay awake . How it ever got an average rating of 6 . 3 is beyond me . . . personally I'd give it . Poorly directed , poorly acted , poorly written - - poor all over , basically .
Why did they have to ruin it ?	Movies like these do not need sequels . Part of the advantage of Don Bluth moving away from Disney is that he didn't need to suffer their endless tirade of straight-to-video , poorly animated cash-in sequels . But apparently it was someone's brilliant idea to make a sequel to " All Dogs Go to Heaven , " so we get this . Charlie Sheen replaces Burt and he's not really as good . Most of the film is just a poor excuse for a sequel and it isn't nearly as dark , different or entertaining as the original . I feel sorry for future generations who are going to have to suffer endless sequels like this without ever knowing what it was like to have a time when Hollywood didn't totally rely on successful films as a crutch to release banal crap . Please , no more sequels to kids films that don't need ' em .
Messy and boring , Kenneth Branaugh's tribute to himself becomes very dull and hard to watch . . .	A boring , and utterly messy retelling of Mary Shelly's classic story sees Kenneth Branaugh as the mad scientist Frankenstein ( guffaw ) and Robert De Niro as The Monster he has created . Interesting in some areas , but overall Branaugh's love of himself gets in the way of the film's narrative . Remind me never to watch a film that shows Robert De Niro's rear for over five seconds ever again . Branaugh's at-the-time girlfriend , Helena Bonham Carter , and John Cleese co-star . stars - John Ulmer
A poor imitation of " The Osbournes " - but not as funny or original	At one time during the 1980s Hulk Hogan was one of the most popular figures in the entertainment industry . He was a famous wrestler who tried to branch out into films ( and failed ) with numerous projects . As the ' 90s came and went , Hulk's fans faded out - and by 2000 he's nothing more than a has-been . So what better way to boost his popularity again than start up a new reality TV show about Hulk and his family ? Hey , I've got an idea - we could call it " Hogan Knows Best , " which doesn't really make any sense . ( Are they implying Hulk is a mother ? ) The show is a carbon copy rip-off of MTV's " The Osbournes . " A few years ago MTV camera crew followed Ozzy , Sharon , his daughter Kelly and son Jack around in their multi-million dollar mansion . Now VH1 is doing the same thing with Hulk . What's lame is that the show is like " The Osbournes " in almost every way - Hulk has a wife who loves dogs , a daughter who wants to be a singer ( and is hopelessly spoiled ) , and a weirdo son . The problems ? Well for one Ozzy is hilarious and fun to watch , whereas Hulk . . . isn't . Give a guy with drug abuse and a deteriorated mind a TV show ? Comedy gold . Give an ex-wrestler who wears a bandanna on his head and wears t-shirts with his own face on them a TV show ? Total crap . Hulk's wife isn't as complimentary to Hulk as Sharon was to Ozzy in their TV show . She comes across as an annoying spoiled princess isolated in her mansion . Kelly Osbourne was annoying but it worked to the show's advantage - Hulk's daughter is just plain bland . And I'm not even going to start on his son . This is essentially a really , really basic ( and really , really poor ) concept for a TV show , and VH1 should be ashamed for thinking they could ever pull this over on people without instantly drawing comparisons to " The Osbournes . " It's a lame , pathetic show and just makes Hulk and his family come across as money-grabbing fame-chasers with no future .
Not the worst movie ever made ( as everyone made it out to be ) , but not good either .	I remember when " Serving Sara " came out I was in the process of moving to England and there were commercials on TV during my pack-out . Each one showed the scene where Elizabeth Hurley gets her pants torn off by Matthew Perry and says , " I said to help me , not undress me ! " Of course it was a clever marketing scheme to get teenaged boys ( and indeed any males ) into the theaters in the hopes of seeing Liz Hurley in underwear for two hours , but they neglected to let audiences know as soon as she says this , she covers herself up with a suitcase and gets a new pair of pants . The whole movie is like this . It's tricky and devious . The ads presented it as something it wasn't . One critic ( was it that awful Earl Dittman of the non-existent Wireless Magazine ? ) said Liz Hurley was like ( and I quote ) " . . . Lucille Ball . " Oh , right . Maybe if Lucille Ball had undergone hours of plastic surgery , looked anorexic , had a British accent , long flowing hair , had been unfunny , and single-handedly helped bomb every movie she starred in . Liz Hurley is an awful actress and ( I personally think ) just so-so in terms of looks . ( Any ugly person can look sexy with millions of dollars . Just look at Paris Hilton . ) She's not the only fault of " Serving Sara . " The script is like a crappy version of " Midnight Run . " It's about bounty hunters and women being tracked down and ruthless guys hiring other hit men to take hit men out and . . . I honestly stopped caring about ten minutes into the film . Matthew Perry ( looking bloated , unhealthy and utterly bored ) basically just mumbles through the whole film . I like Perry ( at least on " Friends " ) but this is not his Big Breakthrough . ( Neither was " The Whole Ten Yards , " for that matter . ) I don't think this is a totally hideous movie - I mean , it's not unbearable to watch . I managed to sit through it . But I was checking my watch a lot . And then I recalled how , in England , once I arrived overseas , it went straight to video , never given a theatrical release : and I could totally understand why .
How the Grinch stole what could have been a good film	Dr . Seuss ' How the Grinch Stole Christmas is based on the childrens book by Dr . Seuss . In this live action film , Jim Carrey brings to life one of the most beloved stories of our time to the big screen with the direction of Ron Howard . The plot is taken straight from the book with a few creative liberties along the way . Inside a snowflake exists the magical land of Whoville . In Whoville , live the Who's , A munchkin like species that all love and adore Christmas . Yet just outside of their beloved Whoville lives the Grinch . The Grinch is a nasty , green creature that hates Christmas , and plots to steal it away from the Whos which he equally loathes . Yet a small child named Cindy Lou Who , decides to try befriend the Grinch and teach him what Christmas is really about . What is probably the most interesting aspect of The Grinch is the cinematography of Whosville that Ron Howard brought to life . It would be very hard to live up to Dr . Seuss ' standards in the book , but Whosville itself in this film is basically the only delight you have while watching . Jim Carrey does fit into the Grinch well , but too often we get an Ace Ventura vibe . Now I ask myself even in dramas why Jim Carrey always seems funny , even when he's acting serious , why is this ? In the Grinch at times he seems calmed down to a certain degree , but the longer the camera rolls the more he starts to act up and eventually we can just picture Ace walking in that snow instead of the Grinch . One other thing I disliked is that in the cartoon the Grinch never talked much , but in this version all the Grinch does is talk . Of course both these films were taken off the book , but I still think Jim should have shut up half the time instead of rambling and doing wacky and crazy movements ( like Ace . ) The humor itself consists of only a few funny lines . In one scene the Grinch is sitting looking through his ' schedule ' and is saying something like ' 1 : 30 Loathe-2 : 30 Have lunch with myself . . I CAN'T cancel that again ! 3 : 30 Feel sorry for myself . . ' And the scene basically goes on like that . I think that is probably the funniest scene in the film , and if you don't find that funny , you will hate the Grinch . I first saw this film in the theaters and expected too much . Perhaps that is why when I viewed the video release I enjoyed it more . If for some reason you do want to see this film , just don't expect it to be great and you might enjoy it more . I wouldn't recommend this film unless you're an absolute fan of Dr . Seuss and in your opinion ' must see it . ' Other than that , avoid the Grinch's good looks and charm , because there is not much of it in the film . starsJOHN ULMER
Very disappointing	I grew up reading " The Lion , the Witch , and the Wardrobe " and must have read it over five or six times altogether as a child - which is rare for me because I'm not the sort of person who reads books more than once . The novel was clearly intended as a Christian allegory by its author , C . S . Lewis , a devout Christian . I think that's one of the clever aspects . What is not clever , however , is this 1988 TV adaptation . It's just not very good . The acting is subpar , the direction isn't very impressive , the special effects and everything are quite straight-to-TV . I'm not really looking forward to the new film adaptation either but at least the new one may be tolerable ( despite being an obvious cash-in on LotR ) - this one , if you've read the book , is genuinely disappointing . I didn't like it then , I don't like it now .
Not scary , not fun and just very campy and dated	I'm a fan of Joe Dante's work . " Gremlins " is a brilliant film and one of my favorites ; its campy humor worked to great effect , it was pretty scary in its own silly little way and all in all it just worked perfectly . " The Second Civil War " is a great underrated satire of politics and war and " Toy Soldiers " isn't given much credit , but I liked it for what it was . But sometimes Dante stumbles . " The Howling , " in 1981 , was a cash-in on the success of John Landis ' " An American Werewolf in London " - - and it's distinctly familiar in its camp humor , human transformations , and even directorial style . This was before Dante had carved a name for himself and it really does just seem like he's copying Landis . " . . . Werewolf in London " isn't a great movie but compared to this it does look a great deal better . " The Howling " involves bestiality , incest , and other uncomfortable subjects and its special effects - - which , at the time , were considered impressive - - are really poor . About three minutes is spent on one transformation , and nowadays it's just really boring . ( Although I must say I prefer this stuff to CGI , it's still used too prominently and just isn't as cool as it thinks it is . ) The humor is nonexistent . It's just a really cheesy movie with bad acting and Joe Dante has made far better films since . " The Howling " is generally considered to be some kind of " classic " of the werewolf genre ( there's a werewolf genre ? ? ) but I can't classify it as such - - I was hugely disappointed .
Boring and underdeveloped	I saw this on TV expecting a pleasant and entertaining film and got neither . It's really an aggravating movie because it wastes so much potential ; Robert Redford , for starters , and James Gandolfini as a prison warden . It's like " Shawshank Redemption Redux , " minus the epic scope and character development - - essentially a story of prisoner vs . warden , only this one is hardly as entertaining . I was really disappointed in just how much this film wasted its own ambitions . Gandolfini could have been an excellent sadistic warden but he comes across as an idiot with a breathing problem ( seriously , the heavy inhaling gets annoying after a while ) . Redford looks like he just walked out of the plastic surgeon's office and his face is a mess , it's hard to take it seriously at all that this old 60-something weakling gains the respect of the entire jail overnight and is able to lift heavy rocks to form a " castle wall . " Rod Lurie ( who directed the movie ) used to be a film critic . One might think a critic , of all people , would recognize the necessities of believability , character development and so on and so forth in a prison story . Lurie comes across as a very average director , employing mediocre co-actors and a really weak script full of ham-handed dialogue . Don't make any sort of effort to see this , I can almost guarantee you'll be disappointed .
Very Poor . I'm surprised they decided to make a TV show out of this .	A pretty poor made-for-TV movie that was the pilot for the television show " T . J . Hooker " starring William Shatner . " You don't need to worry about wasting hours trying to figure out what T . J . stands for - - you all will know me as Sergeant . " The beginning of the movie is laughably bad . Shatner's Hooker is introduced to us as a mean , harsh military-style Sergeant getting ready to train his new " troops . " Hooker pretty much teaches his new cadets his own style of police force - the raw vengeance sort of deal . Then there's the introduction of a subplot that just becomes silly . Quentin Tarantino referenced " T . J . Hooker " in his screenplay for " True Romance . " It's a huge part of society . It's even been in " Showtime " with De Niro and Murphy . Yet it all started because of a really poor made-for-TV movie . If I were the studio , I would never have picked up " T . J . Hooker " after seeing this travesty . I'm surprised anyone did . stars . - John Ulmer
Lame .	It's hard to dislike Hugh Jackman , which is why it's frustrating to witness him suffering through a number of films . He's a talented actor who's been stuck in a rut lately , and if anyone was hoping that Wolverine would be a return to form , those expectations may well be diminished within the first few minutes alone : this is just a shockingly messy film . When the much-publicized workprint edition ( notably lacking many special effects ) leaked last month , FOX Pictures was quick to offer that it was an " inaccurate representation of the movie , " and that over 15 additional minutes of footage were missing from the cut . And yet , based on comments I've read from other journalists and fans who saw both versions , it seems the final product is almost identical to the pirated version ? sloppy , awkwardly paced and wholly inconsistent in tone , style and purpose . One minute it's a dark , brooding attempt at Batman Begins-level reinvention ; the next moment it's a campy , over-the-top action spectacle . The film never finds a balance , and it doesn't help that neither of its extremes are particularly effective in their own right : the " dark " moments feel vapid and the lighter moments just seem misplaced , like they're scenes being set up solely to be easily mocked by one of those Epic Movie spoofs . Wolvie loses his girlfriend and vows to avenge her death , and five minutes later he's having a comical boxing match with a fat superhero ( Kevin Durand ) , whose obesity is the subject of jokes from both Wolverine and Wraith ( will . i . am ) . I don't know about you , but if the love of my life was just brutally murdered by my own brother , the last thing I'd do is find room for cracking weight jokes . The movie tries to give Wolverine his humanity , but how can we sympathize with this character when it's hard for us to understand what , exactly , he's motivated by ? His revenge seems more convenient than genuine , especially nearing the end , when a Shocking Revelation generates a hugely underwhelming emotional response . The film was directed by Gavin Hood , whose filmography begs the question : why the hell did Fox hire this guy ? He has a single well-received film to his credit ? Tsotsi ? which was also a low-budget , independent foreign feature . He may well be a very talented independent director ( that has yet to be determined ) , but he is clearly out of his element here , much in the same way that dramatic filmmaker Marc Forster didn't know how to handle the action choreography for Quantum of Solace last year . In both cases , the studios seemed to assume that an established indie director would be able to handle a multi-billion-dollar action franchise , and in both cases , the studios were wrong . This is further evidence of the fact that multi-genre directors are under-appreciated ? just because you're good at low-key character studies doesn't prove you know how to stage huge superhero fight sequences . Rumour has it that Richard Donner stepped in to perform re-shoots early this year , which is ironic given the movie's nod - of all things - towards Superman : Wolverine , on the run from General Stryker ( Danny Huston ) , shows up at the home of an elderly couple in the middle of nowhere . The movie attempts to develop characterization and depth within the time frame of five minutes , which makes the ultra-dramatic outcome of the elderly couple unintentionally funny : it elicited uncomfortable " should-I-be-laughing-at-this ? " reactions in the audience . The proceeding chase sequence ? which has been put forth as the film's biggest action highlight ? is actually rather unimpressive and , at worst , goofy . The special effects are not particularly awe-inspiring , either . Oh , and they manage to add another nod towards an old film : Steve McQueen in The Great Escape . I mean , really ? I haven't even had time to address the movie's numerous plot holes . The biggest one I can't even specify , because the crux of the film rests on its revelation ; suffice to say , it's the perfect example of a film being built around a singular idea than around a fully-developed story . And the movie's wide array of nerd-pandering character cameos just feels forced and distracting ; Ryan Reynolds , as Wade Wilson , is on-screen just about long enough for us to start warming up to him , before he proceeds to rapidly disappear from ( most of ) the rest of the film . Huh ? And what about Dominic Monaghan as Bolt ? Talk about a thankless role . I may be proved wrong , but it's my impression that fans will be upset that their favourite characters are only getting five minutes of screen time , while , to someone like myself , who's unfamiliar with the comic books , these appearances lack reason altogether . Trimming the fat would have made a leaner , more efficient and realized vehicle . There are a few redeeming qualities ? Liev Schreiber works well when the movie is in campy mode , chewing the scenery as Sabretooth . But even this positive is variable , because when he pops up in the darker sequences , his over-the-top relishing is incongruent . It's like if Robert Downey Jr . ' s acerbic , eccentric characterization of Tony Stark had showed up during one of the darkest moments of The Dark Knight : it just doesn't feel right . And that phony darkness is ultimately Wolverine's most prominent flaw : in the era of the brooding superheroes , this film seems like a relic of a bygone era , devoid of any actual intensity , commitment , realism or ? most importantly ? the honesty of , say , Knight or even Iron Man . And the real crime is that it wouldn't feel so hokey , so dated and so desperately misplaced if the filmmakers hadn't tried to make it something it wasn't ; by introducing artificial brood , the film draws instant comparison with its superiors , relegating it to a category shared only by the 2003 Hulk as a superhero movie that at once doesn't know whether to wink knowingly at the audience or Say Something Really Important .
Joel Schumacher ruins another film	I guess before production started on this it was Joel Schumacher's goal to cast the most unsuitable actors in the roles of the singers . Gerard Butler , as the titular Phantom , couldn't sing if his life depended on it - every time he hits a high note ( or any note , for that matter ) his voice sounds like a whale bellowing under the ocean , or a 90-year-old letting some wind loose . It's pretty upsetting . Emmy Rossum is better but she's no kid wonder , either . Speaking of kid wonders - did anyone else get weird pedophilic vibes from the Phantom's relationship with Rossum ? I mean , she looks like she just got out of high school . Oh wait , that's because she did . Schumacher probably purposely cast bad singers to make it " more realistic " and " different " from the stage show . Well guess what Joel , you succeeded - this movie stinks . He's got his " Batman and Robin " - esquire awkward camera angles going on , and he even crams modern special effects into it - in a " Phantom of the Opera " film ! Can you believe it ! The man is mad ! Apart from the poor direction , awful singing and bad acting ( when people are actually talking and not singing , that is ) there's the fact that the film is just plain boring . If you want to see " Phantom of the Opera , " here's some advice - go to London , watch the musical . It's great . Or , if you're too lazy , buy a recording of the musical . Just don't buy this . On an aside note , the last time Joel Schumacher made a good film was in 1993 with " Falling Down . " I'm still waiting for something as good as that . He needs to tackle outrageous material , because that's what he is - an outrageous director . When he gets his hands on normal stuff - Batman or , say , the Phantom of the Opera - his insanity spreads into the material itself . Then we have Bat-nipples and singing whales , and we don't want that .
" Spinal Tap " rip-off is low on laughs and running out of ideas in the first ten minutes . . .	Hit-and-miss mockumentary about a Minnesota beauty pageant and the weirdos involved in it . An all-star cast can't compensate for a pretty messy script and some very unfunny Christopher Guest-type humor that fails to deliver on a consistent level . stars . - John Ulmer
George Lucas is back , and so is Star Wars ! ( a few really small spoilers )	NOTE : I saw this film again after writing this review and didn't like it the second time . This review is also one of the worst I've ever written . So you have been warned . - - I went to see Star Wars Episode II : Attack of the Clones the day after it came out in theaters May 16 , and I must say I was surprised ! I was afraid it would turn out to be like Episode 1 , a HUGE disappointment for everyone , especially Star Wars fans , but it wasn't . It brought the old Lucas / Star Wars feel and has more action , and even romance , something not seen since Leia and Han Solo's on-the-side romance in episodes 4 , 5 and 6 . The commercials make this movie look horrible , do not trust them . This movie is SO much better than Episode 1 , anyone who dissagrees must be crazy . Episode 1 didn't have enough action , and it turned very bleak , and boring ( it also didn't have the genuine Star Wars " feel " to it if you know what I mean ) . I was afraid that AOTC would be too much romantic , and boring like Ep . 1 , but it isn't ! It turned out great , and I really was surprised when I walked out of the theater . The acting is a little blah sometimes , but not usually . The only parts where it did get a little was some scenes with Natalie Portman , and Hayden Christiansen , because they both are basicially new actors and aren't " great " at acting yet , but it's not that bad , you can shrug it off for Star Wars ' sake . I was also worried that the many scenes with Yoda ( unlike Episode 1 where Yoda was in a few small scenes ) would look really messed up with computer graphics , because I was worried he'd end up looking like Shrek ( which is not bad graphics , just too smooth for a world with real background and people like AOTC ) . Once again I was wrong . Unlike Epiosode 5 & 6 we can see Yoda moving more with CGI and his whole body as well , not just upper body . Yoda also went a little crazy with a lightsaber in the movie ( that was basicially my spoiler in this comment ) , which was GREAT to see . It just looks hilarious ! I also like seeing how everything in this movie fits along with the original story lines , like getting to see the story of Boba Fett's existence ( seeing his face , too ) , and so many more things ! This movie was NOT a disappointment to Star Wars like Episode 1 , It goes right along with with episodes 4 , 5 , & 6 and I can't wait for Episode 3 now ! ( Despite what George Lucas says right now , I sense episodes 7 , 8 , & 9 , coming up in a few years ! ) Lucas is back , and it's great !
You'll love it . . . if it's the only movie you've ever seen or you're a female .	What ever happened to Martin Brest ? A ring of critical and financial successes - - " Beverly Hills Cop , " " Midnight Run , " " Scent of a Woman " - - and suddenly . . . " Meet Joe Black " ? " Gigli " ? Huh ? This three-hour dramatic epic ( yawn ! ) is a remake of an older film , which I hear is much , much better . The updated version stars Brad Pitt as Death . ( Apparently Death takes on the form of young 30-somethings with strong abdominal mid-sections and glistening white teeth , despite having a taste for the gruesome . At least he's got a good fashion sense . ) The movie starts with Brad Pitt meeting a pretty girl ( Claire Forlani ) and then being struck by a moving vehicle , which is one of the most unintentionally hilarious scenes in any film - ever . It's so fake and ridiculous ; you can't help but laugh as a plush man gets pummeled by oncoming traffic and spins through the air dozens of times . He dies and Death takes on his physicality , returning to earth to visit a poor old man named Parrish ( oh ! the symbolism ! ) , played by Anthony Hopkins . Death claims it's time for Mr . Parrish to die . Mr . Parrish disagrees and offers to give Death a tour of the world in return for his soul . ( Nevermind that he's in his sixties and has lived a full life and might very well die soon of natural causes anyway . ) Death agrees . He meets Mr . Parrish's daughter , who happens to be . . . you guessed it . . . Claire Forlani ! Oh my ! What a coincidence ! She falls in love with him , and he falls in love with her . Mr . Parrish disapproves of his daughter dating one of the Satan's spawn , but what the hell ? At least he managed to get a few extra years out of his materialistic , financially-obsessive life . " Meet Joe Black " will instantly remind you of countless other films ( unless this is your first movie ) . I do not hold a grudge against it because it's a " chick flick " - enjoy many so-called " weepy " films , but this just didn't do it for me . I found it pretentious , unnecessarily slow ( come on , the story and the characters are not deep enough to warrant three hours ) and ultimately very disappointing . Pitt and Hopkins are fine actors and watching them go through the motions in a dull wannabe-epic is quite unsatisfying . Add on top of this that Martin Brest officially sold out his career to the ruthless nature of the Hollywood circuit with this movie , and you can understand my nonexistent feelings for it .
Should have been a lot better	I really wanted to see this film - I thought the plot was really unique and intriguing . A cop ( Andy Garcia ) has a son who is dying and needs bone marrow replacement in order to live . The only match is a convicted serial killer , who escapes from jail . To save his son he has to track down the killer . Michael Keaton plays the convict in one of many disappointing aspects of the film . Keaton is a great actor at times but here he is pretty much boring . It's over-the-top to the point where you just stop caring . Garcia is better but tries too hard for a film that isn't up to par . Barbet Schroeder ( at one time such a promising director with films like " Barfly " that amounted to pretty much nothing in the American market ) directs well enough - I honestly thought the script was the culprit here . . . it's just a big mess . The film ultimately wastes a lot of good material , good actors and a good director - all because of a faulty script . What should have been a tense and thought-provoking film is just a Hollywood action dud .
Williams looks embarrassed	I used to like Robin Williams . As time has gone on I've come to realize that perhaps I don't very much . When he's funny , he's hilarious . When he isn't . . . it's embarrassing . And CLUB PARADISE is one of the worst films he's made , which is saying something . It's hard to imagine that something so bad could have been directed by Harold Ramis ( usually a rather reliable director / writer ) . The cast all look awkward and the jokes are forced and unfunny . I think CLUB PARADISE is probably one of the only comedies I can think of that doesn't even really entertain on some sort of level . No , it's not totally awful , but it's not amusing which is a huge flaw for any " comedy . " stars
All heil Joel Schumacher .	No , not really . Of course I'm joking . I'd rather be buried alive . To be fair , Schumacher has made some good films - " Falling Down " is great fun by any standards - but his bad far outweighs the few good projects he's worked on . His influence on a film is instantly recognizable . " Dying Young " is one of Schumacher's sappy flicks , about a woman ( Julia Roberts ) who decides to nurse a dying man ( Campbell Scott ) who has blood cancer . Typical story - hatred for each other at first followed shortly by a deep romance , which ends in . . . well . . . I guess I shouldn't ruin it . The movie is hokey and artificial - it struck me as one of those Hallmark Channel specials you would see on daytime television . If not for the cast it could easily be found in such a slot . It's a curiosity simply because Schumacher fans - as in , the kind that love to hate him - may find it interesting to see him attempt a romantic weeper .
The title should just be " Angelina Jolie In Tight Clothing Doing Stuff . "	Jan de Bont , how unfortunate it is to see you squander away your career . A promising action director once responsible for the thriller-epic " Speed " - now resorting to formulaic action sequels . The title may as well just be " Angelina Jolie In Tight Clothing " because that's basically the selling point . Let's face it - the appeal doesn't stretch far beyond her chest . As an action-adventure movie it's incredibly weak and uninspired . As a tongue-in-cheek adventure movie in the vein of " Indiana Jones " and " James Bond " it's just a helpless rip-off . As a video game adaptation it is a good example of running off with a character or title and just making the final product bear absolutely no resemblance to the initial inspiration . But , to be fair , the only real selling point of the video game series was ( a ) Nerds got to immerse themselves in exotic locales as a beautiful female ( which means they were free to stare at her computer-body for hours on end ) and ( b ) there was some good action . I never really played much of the games . The first game never really worked on my old PC and I played an interesting demo for one of the sequels once - but the reason they work as games is because it's interactive . The plot in a game can be utter crap and still be engaging for the most part . A movie , on the other hand , is not interactive and after staring at Angie's boobs for twenty minutes it's kind of like , " Okay . Enough . " Basically , anyone who has seen or has access to " Original Sin " can skip this because the goods are delivered much better in that film . Gamers looking for a well-done adaptation will find themselves disappointed by an action-adventure cross-breed that never takes off . Is it better than the original ? In parts . I know Jolie said she was really happy with the finished product because she wasn't expecting a masterpiece and she thought it lived up to the game . But I have a feeling most people will be less appreciative of it .
Promising self-satire falls short	The beginning of this movie is promising . It sets itself up for self-parody - - satirizing the old cartoon show and its absurdities while also managing to make fun of some clichés of cartoons and feature-film spin-offs . Then it becomes its own material - - it turns into a disastrously unfunny , stupid kiddie movie with lame fart jokes and surprisingly none-too-subtle , eyebrow-raising sexual innuendo . Robert De Niro is really wasted here . All he can resort to is mugging up for the camera and making fun of his old movies again - - here we get " You talking ' to me ? " which was funny the first time he did it . It's become his calling card now - - it's like the first thing he says when he walks on camera is " You talking ' to me ? " and the director expects everyone to laugh because , hey , it's Robert De Niro , and that's FUNNY . Rene Russo is wasted too although then again I don't think she was put in the film for her acting skills - they just got her because she looked like the character . Ditto for Jason Whatshisname ( from " Seinfeld " ) , who tries too hard - - I guess he was pretty desperate after the show ended . Overall this is a disappointment because it begins so promising and turns into a dud .
Back in Black ? I Don't Think So . . .	Men In Black II , the follow up to the hit film Men In Black , features Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith as the agents K and J respectively . This time around , J finds trouble in the universe as a hostile alien hunts for a mysterious object on Earth , and the only man who can help him doesn't remember a thing ? that man ( of course ) is K . So after J restores K's memory with a ' de-neuralizer ' , together they hunt down the alien scum . Men In Black II ( advertised as MIIB ) isn't half as fun or entertaining as the original 1997 film , and falls short on the jokes almost all the time . One must wonder why the writer ( s ) couldn't have come up with a better excuse for bringing back K other than the cheap gimmick of , ' Hey , let's just have a DE-neuralizer to bring his memory back ! ' I hate when sequels use subjects like that just to bring back a character . ' Hey , he's not dead , he was just run over by a tank ! ' Come on , writers , a little bit more credibility , please ? The jokes in MIIB , as I mentioned , almost all fall flat . There were a few giggles from children during the film , but when I was sitting there , I could tell that almost no one liked what they were seeing , including the children . Have you ever been to a film that is so bad , that people try to laugh at the ' jokes ' because they are so embarrassed they paid to see ' this stupid film ' ? That's MIIB for you . The actors in the film seemed to be holding back a little as well , and J's love interest was a really untalented actress . I think she was trying to act like Halle Berry ( even the haircut ) but I personally wouldn't even want Halle Berry , seeing that I think she isn't a good actress . I don't agree with other reviewers when they say MIIB is repetitive , recycling the jokes from the original film . I think that even if they had repeated all the same jokes , the audience still would have liked it better than the way it turned out . Barry Sonnenfeld may be losing his charm as a director . I have not seen Big Trouble yet , but I heard that it is not funny , so maybe that is a clue . And the aliens in this film look like they came from a Jim Henson's R Us store . There is a crazy fight sequence in the middle of the film , and J fights all the creatures ? I think that was the closest I came to laughing ? the time when the director DIDN'T want us to laugh . But , during that sequence , there was a segment where we see an up close and personal view of an alien's genitals , hanging from his chin , and where of course , J punches him , causing much pain ( for the alien , and the audience ) . There are the cheap jokes like these that ruin this film , another being where Rip Torn ( reprising his role ) jumps up in the air , and we see a shot of him ( obviously hanging from cables ) kicking at the enemy , but the thing is , he stays in the air for about ten seconds , swinging his legs , like a crossbreed between Shaggy from Scooby-Doo , and a Looney Tune character . Not a single person laughed at this scene . All this closes with a witless and unimaginative climax , including a repeat from the ending of MIB , involving a locker , but I won't spoil it anymore for you ( though it doesn't matter-it was stupid ) . A tip to writers : next time , come up with something that has some important key elements , called humor , originality and wit : something the first MIB had . stars - John Ulmer
Something Missing . . .	The Quick and the DeadDisappointingly mediocre story about a gunfighting legend ( Sharon Stone ) who ventures back to her home town to face the corrupt sheriff ( Gene Hackman ) who murdered her daddy ( Gary Sinise in a brief cameo ) . The movie is directed by Sam Raimi ( " Spider-Man " ) , but it fails to come across as anything more than a modern-day cowboy story , complete with fast camera cuts and stylistic shootout tricks . Not really anything special , despite the fact that it could have been amazing . This was Russell Crowe's first mainstream motion picture , and Stone wanted Leonardo DiCaprio in the film so much that she decided to put some of her own paycheck towards his to get him aboard for the project . He must have felt like the king of the world . out of
One of the worst shorts ever ? Perhaps .	" The SharkTank Redemption " seemed to indicate that the DVD would contain a humorous spin-off parody of the movie involving sharks trying to escape their tanks at an ocean exhibit . That sounded rather lame , but it's a better plot than what's here . Basically Alfonso Freeman ( Morgan's son ) works at a Hollywood agency . It's a ruthless place a bit reminiscent of the movie " Swimming with Sharks " - which is ironic , for obvious reasons . A new guy starts working there and receives a lot of criticism from his boss , but he seems able to ignore it . Freeman wants to know how he does this , but it seems Randy ( the new employee ) just has a way of keeping his cool . Finally Randy snaps , but first he provides his fellow workers in the office environment with a moment of inspiration . Let me get something straight : THIS IS LAME . Really lame . I tried to laugh . I wanted to laugh . But I couldn't . IT'S JUST NOT FUNNY . It has to be just about the lamest idea ever . . . it was already done in " Swimming with Sharks " and even as a short film it seems dry . In terms of " spoofing " " The Shawshank Redemption " ( which is what I had hoped for ) , all they can come up with are stupid puns on words from the movie , like " Randy " instead of " Andy . " The movie's ending is disappointing and just not very funny at all . I suppose if you were a huge " Shawshank " fan you might get something out of this , but for casual viewers , it's just one big ( or small , depending upon how you look at it ) mess .
Even as a " chick flick " romantic comedy it doesn't deliver	I went to go see this not having heard anything about it , now knowing what to expect . I figured it would be , at the very least , mildly entertaining and humorous . I'm a sucker for romantic comedies like " Kate and Leopold " and " My Best Friend's Wedding " - - they aren't great movies , but they are good time-passers and sometimes quite funny . I was surprised to find " The Wedding Date " delivers none of the above . It has zero laughs ( literally , I didn't laugh a single time ) , its characters are totally unlikeable and as a result boring to watch - - and worst of all , the biggest crime of any romantic comedy . . . there's no romance ! The film spends way too little time studying its characters and building up their issues . They're just kind of " there " and worthless at that . I felt no sympathy for Kat ( Debra Messing ) , I found her to be an annoying , self-absorbed spoiled rich kid ( check out her parents ' house ! ) and her sister is equally tolerable - - which is pretty unfortunate considering the fact that her sister is supposed to be the " bad guy " ( so to speak ) of the movie ! There's absolutely no chemistry between Dermot Molroney and Debra Messing . Their romance never sparks like Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan or anything half as good as that , even - - it just dwindles and never takes off . Finally all at once they seem to be in love , and it's so sudden that I just sat there and thought , " Huh ? How did this happen ? And WHEN ? " This was Debra Messing's chance to make the leap from television ( " Will and Grace " ) to the big screen , and she fails miserably . Clearly imitating Jennifer Aniston's comedic routine , Messing just walks around saying dumb lines and expects us to laugh . It's not enough . Her character isn't likable . Neither is she , really . If she wants to make it in film , she's going to have to quit ripping off Aniston - - in the beginning of the film , she even has her hair cut the same way as Aniston . It's like " Single White Female , " only really happening . It's a mess of a movie , not even delivering the level of entertainment most romantic comedies do . It's devoid of humor , its characters are annoying , grating and / or unconvincing , and its direction is poor . I understand it's a low-budget " chick flick , " but so was " Four Weddings and a Funeral " - - and look how much better that was .
Not as bad as some say , but it could have been so much better if they had stayed faithful to the show . . .	What my heading for this comment is pretty much sums up what I think . They should have stayed faithful to the show more , and never have shown Claw's face . The dog should have been cgi animated , or at least played some part in the plot . Same with the niece . Oh well , another wasted Disney effort , I guess , though the kids might get a kick out of it . stars - JOHN
Pretty lame	The first " Major League " was enjoyable ( even if it wasn't great or anything ) whereas this cash-in sequel is basically just to suck the money out of a film that made more cash at the box office than anyone expected . The first " Major League " came out in ' 87 and this one in ' 94 ; the seven-year gap surely didn't help much with profit . As far as I'm aware this didn't do nearly as well as the original in theaters and it's not hard to understand why . Most of the original cast returns - mainly Tom Berenger and Charlie Sheen though - to once again spoof baseball . It's not as wacky a comedy as , say , " Hot Shots ! " , but it's close . The real problem with this film is that it's basically extending a story that doesn't need to be extended and recycling a lot of jokes we've already seen . It's worth seeing if you catch it on television , but don't go out of your way - especially if you didn't care much for the original .
Bad Idea , Bad Execution , Bad Movie .	Put yourself in this position : You're a 30-something judge with a wife and kids whose job is to send people to jail . But when small technicalities get in the way of justice , you have to compromise your morals and let rapists and murderers on the loose - - just because the police may have performed a search without a warrant , or taken garbage out of a truck before the lever was pressed and it was dumped into the back with everyone else's trash , thereby becoming " trash " and not the garbage of a certain individual . You'd probably feel pretty depressed knowing that confessed criminals are being let loose because of a small error in their arrest procedure , right ? Well , that's how Michael Douglas feels in " The Star Chamber , " a film about an underground society of judges who are able to convict felons based solely upon what they did - - and not on whether they were unjustly apprehended at the time of their arrest . After having to let two child murderers go free on a slight technicality , Stephen Hardin ( Douglas ) decides to join an underground community of judges who take matters into their own hands when bad guys are let free - - by hiring hitmen to assassinate them . If you think this sounds improbable , you're right . If you think it sounds morally wrong , you're partially right . The movie knows that audiences would immediately interpret this as sick , or twisted , so Peter Hyams - - the director - - uses some of the oldest cliches in the book to make us empathize with Stephen . First , we see him let a murderer go after the police who arrested him acted wrongly in the arrest procedure . Then we see the two child murderers let loose on a similar technicality . I'd buy this if it seemed real - - but the script is all one big contrivance . It doesn't feel real ; it makes the viewer feel manipulated . Now , I like films that provide deep characters that we learn to feel attached to . I think that's why character-driven films such as " Fargo " and " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " succeed . And I don't feel personally insulted when a film tries to make us empathize with its characters by having them go through certain events . But this just feels fake , and I didn't buy the trial scenes for a minute . Too quick , too stupid , too darn silly . Would two similar cases appear in front of a judge within a few days ? This is the type of trial case that makes the news and is a one-in-a-million-type ordeal - - you'd see it advertised everywhere in big bold print - - yet the movie approaches it as if it's an everyday event in the life of a judge . Stephen's older mentor tells him that he's had to do the same type of thing an uncountable number of times . Really ? Name a few cases . The entire notion of an underground band of judges who rule out their own personal judgments sounds like a cross between a John Grisham novel and one by Stephen King . I believe that Grisham could handle this with a bit of credibility - - but the film approaches the matters as King approaches material : It doesn't make much sense to begin with , and really withers away in the second half . ( I loved " The Running Man " novel up until the last hundred pages . ) Alas , " The Star Chamber " is directed with lack of feeling and emotion . If it had setup characters we could care for in more believable situations , then perhaps I would have felt that Stephen's adventures with the underground community of redneck judges would actually mean something . But after all , what does one expect from a film directd by Peter Hyams ? Not much . I hope this idea gets re-done a few years from now . It's an intriguing premise . Too bad it had to be ruined by such a terrible director in such a terrible film . stars . - John Ulmer
Disappointing and muddled	I think the most important aspect of any documentary is the ability to entertain its audience . This does not mean it must be " fun . " It can be moving , disturbing , or horrifying . But I think that , at the least , it should be able to maintain a viewer's interest ? if a filmmaker has succeeded at this , he has succeeded - - period . There could be thousands of lies in Fahrenheit , but if the overall product of these fibs entertained me I might be willing to at least recommend it based solely on thus . Alas , didn't really grab my interest at all . This has nothing to do with my political or social beliefs . I didn't agree with Bowling for Columbine but I still heavily recommended it and found it fascinating and well made . Fahrenheit is not well made . Moore resorts to one thing he has , up until this point in time , all so narrowly avoided : downright propaganda . Whereas his earlier films had moments of sarcastic wit and dry humor , a relief from the heavy-handed nature of the program , has virtually none . No amusing interviews by Moore in which he tracks down reluctant interviewees , no unique animation sequences . In fact , there's barely any Moore here at all ! Sure , he narrates the thing , but we see him so rarely , one begins to forget he's doing more than directing . Moore also falls victim to repetitiveness here . Many of the issues he touches , he later regurgitates in different forms . A majority of his " attacks " on Bush are sort of shameless back-handed slaps ? careless and sloppy . Moore also has a few contradictions in his material that stick out like a sore thumb ? such as the mother who complains that she was targeted by airline security , when in fact the reason this happened in the first place ( which Moore seemingly forgets to mention ) is due to a civil and racial liberties act . He has a few good points , but many of them hold no weight because when viewed from a different perspective , it's clear it's all quite insubstantial or painfully obvious . And his constant degrading references to Bush , and use of the first-person Bush verbal perspective with quotes such as " What would daddy do ? " , become grating and seem very juvenile . I thought Moore was above such childish name-calling antics . It's clear he hates Bush ? and that's mainly the problem with this documentary . He hates Bush so much , and with such vengeance , that his " message " is lost in the material . It starts out as a fairly balanced argument , but we get the idea that the more he rants and fumes , the angrier he becomes , eventually reaching a point where he totally abandons the decent approach of documentaries , and turns his film into a series of repetitive cheap-shots and unsubstantiated , biased rants . I liked Bowling for Columbine even if I didn't agree with it . I expected to at least find Fahrenheit amusing . However , it's so venomous and filled with utter hatred , that I have a feeling only die-hard anti-Bush folk will feel satisfied ? the " middle region " of America with an open mind will feel like we've had a bunch of angry spew forced down our throats by a man taking advantage of his camera and editing abilities . Hopefully , Moore's next documentary will return to the well-balanced and amusing elements of Columbine , which was filled with wit , sarcasm , humor , yet retained its core theme . Fahrenheit is muddled and boring , and judged solely as a documentary I believe it is poorly made and in bad taste . For my money , Super Size Me is a superior documentary and contains the sharp wit and dry humor that Fahrenheit is sorely lacking .
Cole Trickle and his gang are here to PUMP . . . YOU . . . UP !	This film has the worst cast of characters ever . I'm not necessarily speaking of actors , just the names of the people they portray . I mean , come on , Cole Trickle is bad enough ( sounds like a gay hero's alter ego ) , but look at the rest of the names listed in this film : Harry Hogge , Claire Lewicki , Tim Daland , Russ Wheeler , Rowdy Burns , Big John , Buck Bretherton , Waddell , Aldo Bennedetti , Harlem Hoogerhyde . . . It sounds like the screenwriter was too lazy to look up commonly used names so he just used his daughter's bedtime book : Harlem Hoogerhyde ? Buck Bretherton ? Harry Hogge ? DID ANYONE LOOK AT THIS SCRIPT ? ! Didn't Robert Duvall stop and say , " Hey , Harry Hogge sounds like the name of a pig from a lame children's book ! " Apart from the rhyming names , we've got people like Rowdy Burns . Look , here's a hint . If you're making a movie about race car drivers , do NOT name the bad guy " Rowdy . " And don't give him such an obvious last name . I mean , couldn't they have come up with something subtler than " Wheeler " ? How about Harlem Hoogerhyde ? I can't make up my mind . Either he's from Harlem , or he's about to snort a booger on Tom Cruise . What do you think ? Claire Lewicki rhymes with " icky , " and that's never a good thing . Then we finally come to Cole Trickle . This is probably the lamest name in the movie , which is sad considering it's the " hero's . " It belongs in a gay porno flick . And then there's the title of the film itself . . . " DAYS OF THUNDER " ! ! ! Wow , that's powerful ! Unfortunately , it too belongs in a gay porno film . The sequel could be called " The Adventures of Cole Trickle and Harry Hogge : DAYS OF POUNDING . " The only good thing about this film was the inclusion of Guns N ' Roses ' cover of Bob Dylan's " Knockin ' On Heaven's Door " on the soundtrack .
A disgrace to the original	I found this to be an utter waste of time , effort and money . I know Disney always displays lack of creativity when making " straight-to-video " films - but rehashing the plot of the original film with a " new perspective " is an all-time low . . . soon they'll just be re-releasing the original films with new animation and new songs and be calling it a " new version of the movie we all love . " Nathan Lane surprisingly returns to his role of Timon yet again . Timon and Pumbaa the animated animals from the world of the original " Lion King " embark on a narrative journey to tell us the original story the way it REALLY happened . . . as they see it . Of course Timon is now the hero of the story , yadda yadda yadda , blah blah blah . . . The musical sequences are lame and the animation is crap . The vocal talents are impressive for a video feature , but then again , when was the last time you remember Matthew Broderick , Whoopi Goldberg or Nathan Lane being in anything of real commercial substance ? Overall if you liked the original you'll hate this . It's insulting because it's unfair to children and adults alike . And that about sums it up .
Really quite lame and not nearly as funny as the show	I've always been an infrequent fan ( if that makes any sense ? ) of the cult British TV show " Are You Being Served ? " When it was originally aired it was actually in black and white and then moved on to color as the years progressed . I thought the characters were likable and had good trademarks , the humor was well-established as was just about everything regarding the series . Overall it was just very well crafted . However this spin-off movie from 1977 really lacks the spark , charisma and humor of the TV show and as a result is quite lame and not even very entertaining . Part of the reason , I think - believe it or not - is due to the awkwardness of the missing laugh track . We've become so accustomed to the use of a fake laugh track ( you know - the people who always seem to laugh at even the lame jokes in " Friends " for no reason whatsoever ) that watching a " film " playing like a full-length sitcom - minus the laughs - seems really bizarre . Oh , that , plus the movie itself is a stinker and not very funny . That probably has something to do with my dislike for it as well . Overall not horrible but hardly worth your time .
I still can't warm up to this movie	I still remember the fuss " Jerry Maguire " made when it came out back in ' 96 and I still remember the first time I saw it and wondered what the big deal was . I respect Cameron Crowe and I think he has good intentions . " Almost Famous " is a really , really good chronicle of its era . It had interesting characters who I felt for . " Jerry Maguire " is cold , distant , and frankly , rather boring . Clocking in way past its limit , it's basically about a loser sports agent Maguire ( Tom Cruise ) who suddenly finds all his friends and co-workers and even family turning against him as he nears middle-age . The moral is effective - don't let your life be ruled by materialism - - but it's hardly a subtle one . Even Rene Zellweger's character is a huge cliché , being the female love interest who is pure , good-natured , sweet , and represents everything Jerry doesn't have in his life . ( His current fiancée in the film is portrayed as a materialistic fraud . ) The whole yuppie culture thing is kind of over and " Jerry Maguire " would have worked a lot better during the ' 80s , a decade Crowe seems more comfortable with ( he penned " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " after hanging out at a real high school ) . There's something about this film I've just never been able to warm up to .
Haven't I seen this before ?	Michael is a straight-flying young business kid who gets into a fight with a jealous boyfriend one night at a bar . Suddenly a mysterious stranger intervenes and saves him from a beating . The stranger disappears but later that night , while jogging , Michael bumps into him on a pier again ( a foreshadowing of later events in the film ) . Soon the stranger named Alex steps into Michael's life and turns it upside down , revealing himself as a sociopathic monster after it's too late . If you think this plot summary sounds as if it has homosexual underlinings , perhaps it does . I mean for goodness sake what kind of grown man invites his hero to an underground club and lets him take control of his life ? It's " Single White Female " with men . Maybe Alex and Michael love each other . I don't know . It seems like every film I've seen lately has been treating friendship as a sexual thing - - Freeman said " Shawshank " is about two men who love each other more than friends ( which I disagree with ) , " Chasing Amy " was none too subtle and then we have all sorts of other films like this that imply some kind of homoerotic subtext . Frankly it's kind of grating , I miss those old films where two men were allowed to be close without being gay . ( " Midnight Run " , anyone ? ) This is kind of like " Unlawful Entry " meets " Fight Club , " only it's worse than both . On one hand we've got really bad acting from Rob Lowe as a sociopath ( please ! ) and James Spader doing another dork impression . ( Oh wait , it's not an impression ! Aha I get it now . ) The script has no twists like " Fight Club " and the direction is mediocre . The script is by David Koepp , a good writer of thrillers but he turns this one into a parody of itself . Not an awful movie , but not as good as it could have been for sure .
Plays too much like a documentary and not a film	" Ali " was one of those hugely-hyped films that just kind of fizzled out once it had been released . So much was built up around its release : Will Smith and all his training he endured to take on the role of Muhammad Ali , director Michael Mann's struggle to get the film made , and of course the very idea of a film bio being made of boxing's most famous legend . The first disappointment is Smith . I like him and think he's a good actor , but he's out of his league here . For starters , he doesn't look like Ali . He has some of the movements and physical expressions down pat , but he doesn't talk like him , look like him , or have the same presence as him . The second disappointment is writer-director Michael Mann . Here's a guy with a great career of films ( from " Manhunter " to " Heat " ) who writes a lazy script and abandons his usual directorial style for a standard TV-drama biopic narrative . It's a huge disappointment . The rest of the cast are all pretty good - Jamie Foxx , Will's wife Jada-Pinkett , Jon Voight and Mario Van Peebles as Malcolm X all acceptable in their roles ( although something tells me the inclusion of Jada-Pinkett was unnecessary and just a way of Will getting his wife into the movie ) - but overall the film's hugest blunder is its choice of narrative , which feels too much like any daytime drama bio-pic and less like a movie . There's no connection , no feelings , no excitement - resulting in one of the most disappointing films in recent memory .
Rather pathetic	This was a special TV presentation in 1993 at the height of many of its stars ' popularity . Faces like Scott Bakula and Craig T . Nelson may not translate as well to modern drivers who wouldn't even be able to recognize them from anything at all . Basically , it's an hour-long special that provides dangerous driving situations - and then asks what you'd do in the situation . ( Usually out of four possible questions . ) You have a few seconds to answer with the correct answer , and it's essentially a way of testing your own knowledge of road rules and regulations , as well as how you should act in a given situation . Overall , kind of pathetic - more so because it is outdated rather than because it is poorly made . There is ONE good moment in this that is really touching - the camera focuses on a man who was paralyzed in a drunk-driving accident and we don't know he's paralyzed until the camera pulls back . . . the rest of the special is too commercial , clean , and superficial to really come across as striking and bold . If you have a license chances are you already know everything in here , and all the celebrities ' guest appearances are just to make more people interested in seeing it .
Disappointingly unfunny and rather mediocre buddy comedy . . .	There's a reason that " Bird on a Wire " is one of those forgotten films from the 80s . It's forgotten because it's not very good at all . John Badham is a very unpredictable director . He can turn out great films ( " Saturday Night Fever , " " The Hard Way " ) and very bad ones ( " Another Stakeout " ) . The reason , I think , is because there is a very fine line between bad action films and good ones - - if you try to explain the reasons that " Speed " works versus something such as " Hard Rain " ( written by the same writer ) , it's hard to do . They both feature generally decent acting , generally original - - and wholly unbelievable - - ideas , and some good action scenes . So why is " Speed " so great and why is " Hard Rain " so bad ? Some of Badham's films teeter on the brink of badness . With a few more action pieces and less funny moments of interaction between the two leads , " The Hard Way " could have suffered the fate of , say , " Another Stakeout . " But it turned out to be a genuinely funny and moving comedy with two likable stars doing the best they could to make the film a winner . " Bird on a Wire " has two likable leads but little else . The plot is all routine , and totally irrelevant . It's just a way to get Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn to run across America together and crack some bad jokes . It's a reason to see Goldie in a thong ( again ) and Mel's hairy butt ( again ) . It's a reason to see them make out and to see some big explosions . It's a reason to see Mel Gibson do his gay barber impersonation and to see Goldie roll her eyes a lot at him . It's also a fine reason to see one of the only action showdowns set inside an artificial jungle at a zoo housing an assortment of wildlife creatures . Who thought this stuff up ? Who in their right mind ever thought it would actually work ? Does " Bird on a Wire " sound interesting to you ? Well , it is , to a certain degree . It's generally a decent movie - - something worth watching if nothing good is on TV some late Friday night . But this is not a good rental , and it's not even something I'd want to watch again - - and I'm a pretty big Mel Gibson fan ( " Lethal Weapon " all the way ! ) . Mel is the relocated witness who testified against some drug lords ( Bill Duke and John Carradine ) who have just gotten out of prison and are now targeting him with the help of a corrupt FBI agent ( Stephen Tobolowski , who played the pesky Ned in " Groundhog Day , " filmed three years later ) . Rick ( Gibson ) is going under the alias of a Louisiana redneck when his old girlfriend ( Hawn ) sees him working at a gas station and blows his cover . When she comes back later to check up on him , she foils the baddies ' plans to kill Rick - - and the two old love birds escape into the night , with Rick's real identity having been erased from the FBI records ( is it as easy as just clicking a button ? I hope not . ) . Essentially we get a lot of running and screaming and yelling and cheap wisecracks throughout the film , with an ending that stretches on too long before it just grows tiresome . It's like the climactic finale of " The Third Man " that takes place beneath the grimy sewers Vienna - - except that Reed knew when to end that picture's climax , and Badham lets it go on too long . This movie could have been an exceptional road-buddy movie , but it's rather a disappointing blend of action and weak comedy that tries to take two of Hollywood's hottest leading stars ( at the time ) and place them together in some pointless situations . ( Gibson is still one of the highest-paid stars in Hollywood - - what happened to Hawn ? ) I would only recommend something like " Bird on a Wire " if you happen to come across it late on night on television and you have nothing better to do with your time , or if you're a particularly big fan of either of the leading stars . Otherwise , just go watch " Lethal Weapon " or " Just Like Old Times " again - - they're much better , and hey , they're actually funny . stars . - John Ulmer
Mediocre , not awful .	If you are a fan of Brian De Palma , you already know about " The Bonfire of the Vanities . " This is constantly referred to as his hugest flop and largest disappointment , probably for good reason . Its cast - - Tom Hanks , Melanie Griffith , Bruce Willis and Kim Cattrall - - are hardly unpopular and the material is fairly interesting . What , then , went wrong ? In my opinion " The Bonfire of the Vanities " is just poorly executed . I saw this film years ago and lost interest in it almost immediately . The dark humor grows tiresome and isn't nearly as clever as it thinks it is . Tom Hanks isn't really believable in his role and the whole cast seem to be high on something ; Bruce Willis in particular is giving a really odd performance , and I didn't have a clue what he was trying to accomplish with his character . He's supposed to be a drunk , but he came across as something more desperate . The film follows the events in the life of Hanks after he takes a wrong turn off an interstate highway and ends up in a rough area of the city . His girlfriend accidentally hits a black kid in the street , and they try to cover it up , fearing for their lives . What follows is a satire of something . I'm not sure exactly what because De Palma loses vision of his goal very early on . I didn't know whether to laugh , or gasp in horror . It's a very strange movie . That said , the critics are a bit TOO harsh on it . I would hardly call this the total waste of time some people made it out to be on release . It is widely considered one of the most infamous atrocities of cinema and I don't think it's quite deserving of that sort of reaction . It did push De Palma's career back a few years , though , didn't it ?
Not very effective at all .	Sean Penn directs Jack Nicholson in this story of a man who swears to avenge his daughter's death by killing the drunk driver who struck her . The movie opens up with Nicholson's character being a sleazy guy in a strip club and instantly we don't care very much about him , because he treats everyone like crap and doesn't really seem to have much depth . I'm all for unlikeable characters , but not when they're totally unredeemable and of no interest to the audience . The rest of the plot seems very back-and-forth . . . " I'm going to kill him ! " " Wait , I can't kill him . " " I'm going to kill him ! " " But I shouldn't kill him . " When he finally makes up his mind the movie has already lost a lot of its momentum and derails way too early .
Okay updated arcade game	QBert is an updated arcade game , much like PacMan . It involves escaping from bad guys from jumping down pyramid blocks . I've played this updated version , and it's not that bad . Worth getting cheap for 5 bucks if you like classic style arcade games . If not , pass .
OK , but unnecessary , and what happened to Bacon and Silverstone ? !	I was really surprised to see Kevin Bacon credited for this film halfway down the list . I thought it was just an extended , uncredited cameo . I was almost shocked when I realized he was taking credit for starring in the film - and his name wasn't even near the top of the list ! Ditto for Alicia Silverstone . What's happened to her career ? From " Clueless " the movie to the clueless actress - why is she taking roles like this ? " Beauty Shop " is a spin-off of the " Barbershop " series of films ( which somehow managed to spawn a sequel and this , the spin-off , in a couple years ' time ) and it's a pretty half-hearted flick . Sure , it's kind of entertaining , for what it is , but it's pointless and unnecessary . The first two films were enough ; hopefully there won't be a " Beauty Shop 2 . "
Nearly Carrey's best . . .	Jim's greatest film is Dumb and Dumber-it cracks me up every time I watch it , but THE TRUMAN SHOW is one of his best . It's got a good cast , and interesting idea , and while there're many plotholes we can avoid this by just having fun at the movies . stars - - JOHN ULMER
Clarence Is Back . . .	In a tale not-so-great as " It's a Wonderful Life " by any means , but still a decent family story . . . Robert Carradine ( " Revenge of the Nerds " ) stars as Clarence , the angel from " It's A . . . Life , " only this time , he has wings . And as we are all supposed to know , angels of course get YOUNGER as they get older . . . ( nice way to get a younger actor ) Filled with a few laughs , a pretty good actor , and a few other tidbits , Clarence will delight kids for sure . Maybe even adults . stars-John Ulmer
A rather disappointing cult film .	" I don't see a TV , Michael . No TV means no MTV . " So says Sam ( Corey Haim ) to his brother ( Jason Patric ) as they check out their new house in Santa Cruz . That quote best describes " The Lost Boys " - - a vampire film for the MTV generation ( opening with Echo and the Bunnymen's " People Are Strange " Doors cover ) ; for people who want lots of blood and guts but no intelligence . The movie is billed as a comedy but it's not funny . It's also billed as a horror but it's not scary . What is it , then ? I don't know . Like its characters , it seems to be lost . Michael and Sam move to Santa Cruz with their mother ( Dianne Wiest ) , which happens to be the murder capital of the world . Little do they know that a blood-thirsty pack of teenaged vampires are responsible for the mass murders of the city . They roam the boardwalks at night , spotting prey , and feasting as they dive down through the sky for a midnight snack . Security guards are killed , children are killed , and stoned party animals are killed - - all at night , by the vampires , who - - as legend has it - - are allergic to daylight . The movie was made in a time when special effects were so poor that showing the vampires flying through the sky might seem ridiculous . Instead , we get lots of swooping camera techniques that try to make us see through the eyes of the lead vampire , David ( Kiefer Sutherland ) , who transforms Michael into a vampire one night and literally hangs out with him . The title for the film comes from the story of Peter Pan and his lost boys ( all four lead vampires share the names of these lost boys , too ) . In that tale , the kids in Neverland never grew old for unexplained reasons . Here they never grow old because they've vampires . They are immortal . But , of course , onion garlic and holy water and stakes through the heart will kill them . Tough break . Clever concept , but poor execution , helmed by Joel " Batman and Robin " Schumacher , who also directed " St . Elmo's Fire , " which perhaps explains why Sam has posters of Rob Lowe and Molly Ringwald on his bedroom wall . ( Why , exactly , he has a poster of Lowe stripping out of a shirt , can be left for explanation by someone who knows . ) After his brother becomes a " half-vampire , " Sam alerts the Frog Brothers , local vampire hunters with way too much time on their hands . ( One of the brothers is also played by Corey Feldman , who used to be a huge teen icon during the 1980s and now has trouble finding jobs anywhere . ) They go on a rampage , kill one of the vampires named Marko ( Alex Winter ) , and are pursued by the rest of the pack . What's even worse is that the film tries to implement more than a few twists , especially towards the end , which soon becomes absolutely unbearably awful , unsatisfying and absurd . I have to wonder how on earth this movie ever gained as good a reputation as it has over the years . To be fair the cast struggles with the material . Jason Patric is acceptable as the lead hero , but I never felt any strong feelings for him . The two Coreys ( Haim and Feldman , who reunited on several projects over the years since " The Lost Boys " ) aren't even very humorous , especially Feldman , a comedic relief character who usually manages to become the annoyingly likable persona of any given film , but evidently tries too hard here , particularly with his forced low voice ( no , it isn't natural ) . It's one of his worst roles that I've seen him in . Edward Herrmann , as Wiest's mandatory love interest and possible on-the-side vampire ( or so Sam suggests at one point in the movie ) , is severely miscast - - an actor used to playing roles such as that in " Richie Rich " and " Intolerable Cruelty " who tries to act smart here and doesn't succeed very well at all . The best performance comes from Kiefer Sutherland , as David , but his role is misadvertised - - we are led to believe from the commercials and posters and DVD covers that he is one of the main characters of the film , yet I'd be surprised to hear that he shares more than fifteen minutes of screen time . Sutherland presumably enjoyed working with Schumacher ( a real hit-and-miss director ) , because he teamed up with him again for " Phone Booth " ( 2002 ) , which is undoubtedly superior in almost all ways . " The Lost Boys " simply isn't very scary , funny , or even entertaining . The ending is embarrassing and tries to throw in a bunch of twists , but they're just plain silly . It's not a very good vampire flick and not even on par with some of the best cheesy horror flicks out there ( " Gremlins " is the perfect example of this sort of movie done right ) . It tries to add originality to a concept that has been squeezed dry over the years since Max Schreck and Bela Lugosi made it popular ( film-wise , that is ) . How disappointing that they cannot even manage to make us laugh at some of the vampire stereotypes , and instead serve us some laughably bad ideas with a laughably bad script and a truly lame " twist " ending . Mel Brooks ' " Dracula , Dead and Loving it ! " wasn't anything special but at least it was smart enough to spoof a dry formula , rather than suck its blood dry , so to speak .
This movie bites .	I'm one of the very , very , very , very , very ( this could go on a long time ! ) . . . few people who thought Ben Stiller did a good job on " The Cable Guy , " and it was a good satire . I had wanted to see " Reality Bites " for a while and finally got to see it on TV last week . I was really disappointed . It's a lame romantic-comedy with unlikable characters and a wandering story . It's basically about slackers ( primarily Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawke ) who sit around moaning because their life is so terrible . The people who work for a living are portrayed as vicious , mean fascists . The film isn't very well directed ( it thinks it's really hip , clever , and New Age-ish , when it's none of the above ) , and presents a bunch of characters I couldn't have cared less for . If you want to appreciate Ben Stiller's sense of comedy , I'd recommend " Cable Guy " over this any day of the week .
Tries to be artsy , erotic , controversial and deep all at the same time - half-baked on every level .	I expected much more from " Intimacy . " I remember when it first came out in 2001 and got a lot of bad reviews from the critics , but at first I thought it was probably just because they couldn't handle the ( allegedly ) " explicit " content matter . I was wrong : it really is a mediocre movie . The main problem is that we just don't care about the characters at all , I suppose . This could be compensated for by a strong director or interesting script , but it has neither . It's an independent film and the standards of film-making are simply just OK . Not all great low-budget films have likable characters but when you have one so ugly , it helps to make up for it by at least having characters we can relate to . ( Good example : " The Panic in Needle Park . " You feel like yelling at the characters , but you care for them because you can relate to their daily struggles - - lack of food , employment , money , etc . - - anyone who's been down on luck before can understand . ) But " Intimacy " isn't the same . It's about a family guy who dumps his wife and kids and becomes a bartender at a London pub . He meets an anonymous woman for sex every week in a dirty apartment in a bad area . The movie doesn't work as an art-house experiment because it's neither artsy nor experimental . It pretends to be by showcasing those famous " lingering " shots that's become really tiring since every indie filmmaker decided it was a sign of talent and originality . It's not experimental because it follows the guidelines in terms of direction , cinematography and acting . It's not erotic because the sex scenes are dull and Kerry Fox is , to be totally honest , an ugly woman . ( Which is the point - it makes the story more realistic - but all the same it also makes it un-erotic . ) I think women would probably say the same about the male lead - and I hate to be the first person to point it out , but in regards to the infamous " real " sex scenes in the film . . . he's about as " big " as a blade of grass , and Kerry Fox is about as stimulating to watch as bumer-to-bumper traffic . It's not deep because it's so basic - we get to see the lack of morality in the leading characters . Well whoop-dee-do , so what ? You're likely to find much better films out there than this . In terms of independent cinema it's a big let-down because it seems like any major Hollywood film hiding underneath the mold of something it isn't . The story isn't anything special and has been done before , the acting is just so-so , the " erotic imagery " isn't erotic , the level of entertainment is about zilch . All in all it comes across as a cheap imitator of " Last Tango in Paris , " which is about a hundred times better and a much more prominent example of having unlikable characters in a movie that we can still feel a connection for .
Huge disappointment	In 2004 I nearly got the chance to visit the set of " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " at Pinewood Studios ( outside of London ) . Two people I knew worked there ( one with access to all sets ) and I had planned on sitting in the trailer where the stars go to eat . I was pretty excited at the idea of meeting Johnny Depp , Tim Burton and others but alas my friend's position on the film ended up being switched around and I couldn't get in . Then again later that year in Black Forest next to Pinewood I saw them filming the movie ( outside of Charlie's house in the film ) with many odd sets . The film looked fabulous in terms of production design and knowing Burton was directing I thought there was good potential for a Gothic , revisionist Charlie . Unfortunately I've just bought the DVD and found myself utterly disappointed . Worst of all was Depp's performance . One of my favorite actors , I looked forward to him playing Wonka - and he's just not that good . Impersonating Michael Jackson or Not , Wonka just comes across as unmemorable . It's like he isn't developed to the point where you leave the theater remembering all his best lines and character traits . I also felt somewhat cheated by the ending . The Oompah-Loompa segment ( s ) of the film aren't as inspired as the original and in fact I didn't like the Oompah-Loompah look in this film - a bit too . . . Mexican ? Maybe that was the point , though . The film is okay but I think a lot more could have been done with it . Even Burton's familiar visual styling is lacking as he uses a good amount of CGI which just makes it appear to be another average CGI-crammed blockbuster . I hate to say this , but " Charlie " is a disappointment . At least for me .
Not as good as it could of been , but still a decent movie .	Despite the issues of this movie , it just didn't come out the way it should have . Robin Williams gave a good performance , as always , but the movie itself lacked the dramatic touch it needed . Parts of the story , as well as the lines made the movie more of a dramatic comedy , which doesn't work in a movie like this . If they had kept the drama closer to movies like Schindler's List , Braveheart , and other impressive dramatic films they could have pulled this movie off . They also should've gotten a more dramatic soundtrack , like other great dramas have . Drama is not my favorite movie genre , but in " Jakob the Liar , " they needed more of it .
Visually and cinematically , " Trainspotting " meets Tarantino - - story-wise , an unfortunate case of style over substance	" Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " ( 1998 ) has become something of a cult classic ( particularly in the UK ) and has a devout fan following . In the wake of the Quentin Tarantino self-knowing genre imitators this is one of the few to stand apart from the rest and make a name for itself . Unfortunately that's all it really is - - a Tarantino imitator . It's entirely coincidental that it's had any more of an impact than , say , " The Way of the Gun , " or other failed Tarantino spawns . There have been some people on the IMDb message boards saying , " . . . Tarantino just rips people off so how can this be a rip off of Tarantino ? " Tarantino does indeed rip off , or " borrow , " other filmmakers . But his visual style is a distinct one - - his raw , edgy , down-to-earth directorial style with the dark shades and grungy grain - - and " Lock Stock " copies this way too often . Guy Ritchie got his start in TV commercials and that's very clear . I suppose most Americans wouldn't be able to tell since the commercials in America are so stupid and banal . In the UK , commercials ( particularly those such as the Stella Artois ads ) tell stories and have a clear visual edge that is lacking in the US . Ritchie's style is identical to the sensuous and dark adverts being broadcast in the UK . The camera angles , styles and hand-cam shots are all straight from TV ; the gambling sequence where a character's head is blurred and spun around , or when the camera bursts out of a cook's boiling pot of water , are straight from the tube ; Ritchie's background is instantly recognizable . In my opinion , it's not a good style for film ; it's like a mix between Soderbergh and Tarantino , and I don't like it much . ( Although admittedly it's great for adverts . ) This picture is alive , sure , because of the TV-style flair . But that doesn't mean it's any good . To be totally honest I found it to be a huge bore and a wannabe Tarantino flick crossed with Irvine Welsh . I couldn't care less about any of the characters . I liked Jason Statham the most , but the others are introduced so poorly , and examined so recklessly , that I quickly lost track of their traits and felt as if I was - - yet again - - watching some extended TV commercial : style over substance . The dialogue is OK , I guess , and in fact the actors all bring it alive because they do very much sound like Eastern Londoners . ( Can't say how many people I've met who talk just like this ! ) That would be the highest praise I can give it . " Trainspotting " is the best UK film of the 1990s , in my opinion , and " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " is a pale imitation of both this and the Quentin Tarantino generation . Its dialogue , directorial style and hip self-conscious vibe have all been over-used to such an extent that it just comes across as pretentious , showy and artificial - - not fun , just dumb .
Too routine to be enjoyable .	" Sister Act " was a huge success when it came out . Harvey Keitel was at the top of his game in ' 92 - " Reservoir Dogs , " " Bad Lieutenant " and this had sparked his career up and Whoopi Goldberg was a couple years off her Academy Award-winning performance in " Ghost . " So , I guess their names attracted the moviegoers . However the premise really is dull and has been used way too much - - a person on the run hides with the church . This happened a few years earlier in " We're No Angels " and again in " Nuns on the Run . " " Sister Act " features Goldberg in the hapless role of the woman whose boyfriend ( Keitel ) tries to kill her because he's in the Mafia and what not . I found this quite boring and I already knew literally everything that was going to happen because it was so utterly clichéd and routine . Goldberg is OK but not as funny as she or the director thinks and Keitel is on cruise control . " Sister Act " might have made a fuss in ' 92 but by today's standards ( and , I suspect , even back then ) it's a waste of space . The fact that they immediately cashed in with a sequel only one year later is worse than most of the sequel syndromes Hollywood is suffering from today - - at least " xXx2 " came out more than one year after the original !
Dull and disappointing .	Heist movies should be fun and entertaining ? not dull and glib . But that's precisely what " Ocean's Twelve " is ? a smug , slow exercise in Hollywood banality . You can feel the sweaty palms of fattened executives draining the zest and energy out of this picture . Granted , the first movie wasn't anything great , but it was unassuming and amiable ? a bunch of celebrities got together , had a good time , and made a movie that invited the viewer along for the ride . It worked as a slice of distracting summer cinema . But " Ocean's Twelve " suffers from that complex that a lot of sequels get ? you know , the first flick is an unexpected success , and then the studios push for a sequel and completely dominate the production now knowing they have a bona fide lucrative franchise on their hands . In this case it feels as if the studio execs weren't the only ones to blame . The cast is obnoxiously self-aware ? in the first film Rusty Ryan ( Brad Pitt ) walked the line between " cool " and " fool " and in " Ocean's Twelve " he comes across as an utterly annoying , wannabe hipster . I don't think Brad Pitt is necessarily to blame , although his delivery of lines doesn't help much . They sound forced and overtly dramatic . It just isn't real enough , even for escapism . Some of the actors seem to disappear for large amounts of time ? Andy Garcia and Bernie Mac must have been called away for another shoot , because they mostly vanish after the first fifteen minutes . In fact , the first fifteen minutes of the film really just exists to give Garcia a role in the movie ? except for a brief appearance at the end , it's the only screen time he really gathers . The new additions seem tacky and unnecessary ? likewise the cameos are contrived , and the self-referential Julia Roberts - playing - Tess - playing - Julia - Roberts scene must have looked a lot better on paper . Soderbergh's direction is harder and laced with grit ? the hand-cam shots and filtered bleak cinematography really give the film an abysmal edge that hinders it . The original was vibrant , colorful and alive ? " Twelve " is dead from the start . Not a terrible motion picture by any standard , but then again I'd hardly feel compelled to label this " entertainment . " It's a sporadically amusing , mostly grueling sequel that never really rings true ? it's like an exclusive in-joke for the cast and crew , and the audience's involvement was obviously of secondary importance during filming .
Annoying and off-target	Tim is a mentally handicapped young man who falls in love with an older woman despite his family's objections . Their relationship turns serious and that's basically the point of the movie - can older women love younger men ? I looked forward to this as I'm a big Mel Gibson fan and feel he is too often bagged on by critics and moviegoers ( particularly Europeans for some reason - according to a poll , because he's always killing them in his movies and they think he's racist ! ) . Well his performance as the titular " Tim " is laughably bad and far from a Rain Man . His " Kangaroo Hop " sequence had me rolling on the floor in laughter wondering whether it was a comedy , and when he started jumping up and down I couldn't stop the tears . This is just a really poor movie by almost all standards . The direction is poor ( it's worse than a made-for-TV movie ) , the performances are bad , the romance is totally unbelievable and the soundtrack is so horrible it made me want to cringe . I hate to sound so bitter but you know a movie is going to be in trouble when the description on the back of the DVD reads as if it were written by an illiterate third grader with crossed eyes .
Not a terrible film , but not a particularly good one , either . . .	60s and 70s television show remakes are everywhere . " Charlie's Angels " and " Starsky and Hutch " are just two of the more profitable franchises ( the latter of the two bringing in $28 million in its first week ) . But both of those series tend to have fun with what they're parodying , rather than remaking . " The Mod Squad " is basically just a remake of the show of the same title , minus any real sort of substance and humor , and only a low amount of actual fun . It could have been a blast , but it's just rather mediocre . Three young delinquents ( Claire Danes , Giovanni Ribisi and Omar Epps ) are recruited by a cop ( Dennis Farina ) to infiltrate many various operations ( prostitute rings , drug circles ) that police could never get into . But after their boss is murdered and they uncover a conspiracy , the three delinquents take it upon themselves to find out the truth behind the crime . stars . - John UlmerThe plot is pretty weak , even for a 60s TV show remake . " The Mod Squad " ran from 1968 - 1973 , with somewhere in the vicinity of 120 episodes . I never saw any , but I can't imagine this film adaptation does the show much justice . The cast is considerably OK . Danes is quite enthusiastic and pretty enough for her sweet-blonde role , Ribisi is fine as a criminal and Epps is decent enough , too . Farina ( " Get Shorty , " " Another Stakeout " ) is a good actor , always very funny , but here his role is completely wasted ( literally ! ) and short on the sort of sly humor that would have been appropriate given the actor behind it . The dialogue is really corny , and so are the characters ' actions . Television shows need not worry about smart dialogue or characters , because they're usually 30 minutes long ( sometimes an hour ) , and we just get " hooked " on what's going on . Can you imagine if a soap opera made its way onto the big screen ? It'd completely flop . People watch television shows because they like to see continuous stories with recurring characters they learn to love over a certain time period . You can't get any joy out of watching a bunch of actors try to grow on you for 90 minutes . If " Alias " had ever started out as a big-screen movie , it might have flopped , because let's face it : the show is not exactly quality material . People watch it because they get hooked on it , and they enjoy watching the stories and the revelations , like an old woman addicted to her " General Hospital " episodes . So here's proof that if " The Mod Squad " had originally been a movie , there probably would have been no television show . Despite some rather bad word-of-mouth , this movie isn't a terrible one . I've seen much worse , and compared to big-screen disasters like " Freddy Got Fingered , " or low-budget ones like " The Blade Master , " this is nothing very laughable at all . But compared to the fun factor of " Charlie's Angels " or " Starsky and Hutch , " " The Mod Squad " falls flat on its face . It's not very funny , it's not very fun , and it's not very original . It's a cash-in , which is something Hollywood is not in short supply of right now . If you miss " The Mod Squad , " you're not missing anything that hasn't been done before .
If you don't love this movie you probably deserve to die .	I'm joking again . I actually would encourage people to dislike this film . I find it average at best . As a Disney picture , it's a shameless rip-off of " 101 Dalmations " - only instead of dogs , it's with cats . " AristoCATS " - - ha , ha ! How clever I wonder how long it took them to come up with that one . Basically the Disney formula is in place - animals on the run from a deranged weirdo who has a strange obsession with animals and wants them dead . In this case it's the butler of a rich woman who has left her estate and belongings to the possession of her cat upon death . The butler decides to get rid of the cat and her new kittens and then have himself be put in the will . It's actually rather dark because he kidnaps the cats and plans for them to die in the wild , but they meet up with a street cat who teaches them the ways of the " real world . " If you think this plot is incredibly stupid and far-fetched then you are probably right . But as a children's film you can hardly blame it for being utterly nonsensical and not bearing any sense of reality . If you are a Disney enthusiast you will find something to enjoy here . Some of the musical performances are fun . But it's not a remarkable film or one that is particularly memorable from Disney's canon .
A Guilty Pleasure	Face ValueThis movie is about as average as they come . But for being a made-for-TV film , it's not all that bad . Scott Baio , ex-child star in real life , plays a young man who goes to visit an old friend of his who resides in California . His friend's got it all : Nice house , great car , lots of neat accessories , friends , and , or course , women . But after Baio's friend mysteriously disappears , and Baio suspects foul play in a boating accident , Baio adapts to the persona of his friend for a while . But this idea backfires when the bad guys who killed his friend start coming after Baio , thinking they didn't succeed in their job . Or is that what it's all about ? This film is about as average as they come . We've seen it all before , and much , much better . But for being a television movie , it's not half bad . Scott Baio's not the worst actor in the world , even if the others in the film rank high in the " bad actor " category . Director Michael Miller wanders around helplessly trying to decide where his prized film should head - - it ends up in the gutter , for the main part , but let's face it : This movie is nowhere near as bad as it could have become . The script by James G . Hirsch is right out of a TV film , with things like , " Hey , cowboy ! " and weird catchphrases for the characters . The dialogue is stiff and weak - - but again , not as bad as it could have been . The plot - - what little of it there is - - is so average it's mind-numbingly bad . Everything that happens is utterly predictable and there is not one moment of real suspense . But then again , it's a television movie , so I can't blame it too much . I sat down to watch this movie with the lowest of expectations , and I came out with a bit higher of a standard for made-for-TV movies . " Face Value " is awful as a film itself , but as a TV movie ? It's not all that bad . To tell you the truth , it was a bit of a guilty pleasure as I watched it late at night on Friday . A nice film to relax you and take you out for a bit . Just don't look upon it with critical eyes , and you'll find yourself actually enjoying it . stars on a level of regular film , when compared to TV films , brings the average to stars . John Ulmer
Blind patriotism - - good acting in a poorly-directed movie .	I recall John Travolta showing up on " The Tonight Show " to promote the release of " Ladder 49 " some months ago . He basically said their aim was to create the most realistic fire-fighting movie ever . They have succeeded . Realism is both the strength and downfall of " Ladder 49 . " This is a movie , not a documentary . And as such , it's not even a true story . It's too heavy and bogged down . There are too many random scenes that have no other purpose than to reinforce the fact that , hey , this stuff can really happen . Wow . You know those hoses firefighters use ? Yeah , well , they connect to these red things on the sidewalk , and they shoot pressurized water ? I'm glad thirty seconds was spent explaining this to me ! It's really tacky , too . Lazy is a more apt word , perhaps . The director is so lazy in fact that he begins with the way-overused dramatic flashbacks . You know the kind : Where the camera kinda just fades away , and suddenly it's years ago and everyone's happy , and then all of a sudden ? whoops ! Someone is dying ! We're back in the present again . A few more minutes of this , and ? oh yes ! We're in the past again ! Explaining more about the character's background ! How convenient . I probably sound bitter . Well , that's because I am . On another day , I might have been more forgiving . But today I wasn't . Today I wanted to see " Hotel Rwanda , " and they played this instead by mistake . So sue me for being upset . The scribe of the screenplay , Lewis Colick , is responsible for some of the great classics of cinema ? namely " The Dirt Bike Kid , " " Unlawful Entry , " " Domestic Disturbance " and a masterpiece you might remember by the name of " Bulletproof " ( which , you will recall , starred Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler and had some of the most blatant homosexual undertones ever put to film ) . The dialogue is actually very good . Realistic performances , too . John Travolta and Joaquin Phoenix are just great ! Too bad the movie sucks though . The music is awful . I can't think of the last time a score harmed a movie in this way since " And Justice for All ? " , which you will recall featured jivin ' " Saturday Night Fever " - style disco music during dramatic courtroom scenes . I thought maybe Al Pacino would settle the trial through impressing the judge , by turning the courtroom into a disco dance floor and tearin ' it up . But that's another discussion for another time . Back to " Ladder 49 . " It stinks . It's not unbearable . But I really wanted to leave . I kept checking my watch . I don't remember the last time a movie moved so slow since " The English Patient . " Don't get me wrong . I like character-driven films and prefer them to noisy Michael Bay action flicks . I'll take Scorsese any day of the week over McG . But Jay " Ladder 49 " Russell is just a really bad director , and every scene ? despite its realism ? comes across as schmaltzy , tacky and smothering . You know the annoying kids who are always trying to show off and impress people ? That's what " Ladder 49 " is . An annoying little brat trying to get everyone's attention . I got real tired of it , real quick . Oh , and the critics really ate this crap right up . Roger Ebert gave it three and a half stars , said he went in expecting an action picture and instead got a character study . Yeah , but he neglects to inform that you can witness more character development in a standard daytime soap opera ? and the direction is about on par . Truth is , this is a shoddily made stinker that feels like a Lifetime Movie of the Week with Oscar aspirations . Everyone's all into this because it's post - . There's nothing wrong with a bit of patriotism , but isn't there a famous quote about blindness and such ? That's what " Ladder 49 " is . Blind patriotism . And it's boring as hell , too .
Laughably bad to the point of unintentional self-satire	Marky Mark Wahlberg plays a rock star wannabe who rocks out at rock concerts with his rockin ' girlfriend and rocking friends . He gets into fights with competing rock band members and his older brother , who hates rock music and is a police officer , makes fun of him for being a wannabe rock star . So the titular rock star eventually becomes a real rock star , headlining his favorite rock band as a rock singer . Notice how I keep using the word " rock " a lot ? That's because this movie is inundated with rock - and in a bad way . Hair metal died with the ' 80s - making a retro picture now ? It's not surprising the film didn't even recoup half of its $38 , 000 , 000 budget in theaters . I'm not picking on hair metal , but if you look at Motley Crue or KISS , at least they had attitude . The bands in this film are lame ! I guess Mark thought this would be a good semi-sequel to " Boogie Nights " - he satirized the ' 70s porn industry , now why not ' 80s gratuity ? - but , unfortunately , at the helm of director Stephen " I Haven't Made a Good Movie in Years and Am Still Riding on the Coattails of ' Bill & Ted ' and ' Mr . Holland's Opus ' " Herek , " Rock Star " looks like a laughable , silly picture . Oh , and Jennifer Aniston's annoying performance as Mark's girlfriend only adds to the fun .
Danger . Suspense . Excitement . Not This Time .	The World is Not EnoughI have tried to sit through this Bond film multiple times , and I only did so the first time I viewed it . I figure that you should stick with a movie , through good times and bad . First of all , I don't like wasting money on something . Secondly , I like to see it all just to say I saw it . Third of all , I see it all so I can review it . So I sat through this film the first time , but it was painful the second and third , and I found myself going over to the computer and typing up some reviews instead . The movie isn't all that bad in the beginning , other than having a few outrageous stunts ( even for a Bond film ) , but it's from the midway on that bores me . It just becomes dull . This Bond outing features Pierce Brosnan going after some baddies bent on doing something somewhere , for some reason or another . All I could make out was that there is a guy with a bullet in his brain that slowly eats away his " pain receptors , " making him " immune to pain . " That is the excuse for an indestructible bad guy who stands a chance against Bond . Bond teams up with Sophie Marceau to track down the bad guy , but soon finds himself with Bond Girl Denise Richards , playing Christmas Jones : Short pants , tight shirt covering big breasts , and big lips . Oh , yeah : She's a nuclear chemist out in the middle of nowhere with a bunch of other chemists - - all stupid men that dress decently and actually look like someone who would have gone through years of chemistry instead of vogue class . Now , I can accept beautiful women in most Bond films : It's the franchise's strongest trait . Or one of the strongest traits . But having Denise Richards play a nuclear chemist is beyond belief : It's truly laughable ! Pierce Brosnan once again proves to be a great Bond runner-up : I'll be saddened when he stops playing the character . But hey , he's in his fifties - - let's be thankful he even lasted through one of the films much less 1 . . . 2 . . . 3 . . . 4 . . . etc . . . Sophie Marceau is nice as a Bond girl , but she is wasted at the sight of Denise Richards , who does not even know the meaning of acting , much less contain the charisma to become a Bond girl . Not that she's a horrible actress , but you have to see her in this movie to understand where I'm coming from . This is probably one of the worst Bond films I've seen . My favorites include : " Goldfinger , " " Dr . No , " " From Russia with Love , " " Moonraker , " " Goldeneye " and a few others . If you like any of those Bond films , I suggest you stay away from this painful excuse for a Bond film . The first half is pretty good , but the last half is miserably slow-paced . I always turn it off half way through . I suggest you do , as well . Perhaps the only other point of seeing this film is to say a fond farewell to Q played by Desmond Llewelyn ( 1914-1999 ) . By the way , John Cleese takes over Q's position as R . Unfortunately , not even he can save this film . stars - John Ulmer
Most disappointing film experience I've ever had ( well , almost )	I bought into the hype when this came out in 1998 . I was younger then and went to go see it opening day with my friend . He loved it , but the entire time I saw there awestruck thinking to myself , " Wow , this is actually BORING ! " It's not that the film is just stupid . All blockbusters are , after all . It's that Roland Emmerich is so inept here at delivering any sort of entertainment value - - the film takes itself way too seriously for a summer popcorn flick , trying to insert depth and dialogue - both backfire miserably . Matthew Broderick is sorely miscast as the lead hero and Jean Reno has perhaps the only good role in the entire film . The CGI sequences are alright I suppose but compared to today's effects , they're outdated - - and when a film relies entirely on effects to wow over its audience , you know it's in trouble . The end of the film turns into " Jurassic Park " with little Godzillas running around chasing people like Raptors . This movie is too long , too stupid , too pretentious and too boring .
Not very impressive .	So far DreamWorks Pictures has only produced two worthwhile computer-animated films ( the " Shrek " movies ) and " Ice Age " is another reminder of why Pixar has them beat in almost all aspects . First of all the only good thing about this movie is the cast - Ray Romano , John Leguizamo and Denis Leary . The animation is terrible for the most part and it just isn't very clever , funny or witty - at least not as much as it should be . If you've seen any Pixar films you'll instantly realize why they're vastly superior to DreamWorks ' animated department - comparing " Toy Story " and " Finding Nemo " to " Ice Age " and " Shark Tale , " for example , proves to be a laughable comparison . Unfortunately a sequel is coming out to this quite soon and judging from the trailer it's going to be a horrendeous cash-in .
A Disappointing , Dull Film Noir . . .	The Man Who Wasn't ThereFilm noirs have been done excellently over the past years , but not many are as great as they could be . That's why , after seeing commercials and reading reviews for ' The Man Who Wasn't There , ' I expected a lot from the film . Unfortunately , it was very disappointing . Ed Crane ( Billy Bob Thornton ) is second-hand at a barbershop in 1949 . He ' doesn't talk much , ' he says ' I just cut the hair . ' Well , that's true . Ed Crane barely talks at all . The only thing we hear from him throughout the film is his strangely soft and unmoving voice-over narrative recalling the accounts of the past few weeks of his quiet life . The story begins when Crane suspects that his wife ( Academy Award Winner Frances McDormand ) is having an affair with the rich manager of a clothing store , named Big Dave ( James Gandolfini ) . After Crane hears about a dry cleaning scam from a customer , he blackmails Big Dave for ten thousand dollars to invest in the dry cleaning business . Unfortunately , Big Dave soon finds out who the blackmailer is , and in a moment of self-defense , Crane kills Big Dave . Now , Crane's wife has been convicted of murder , and everything in his life goes downhill from there on ? ' The Man Who Wasn't There ' starts off very good . The beginning credits were more than reminiscent of the Humphrey Bogart era , and so was the calm voice-over by Thornton . I was instantly engaged in the story of this man living in a small town in California , and how his life could possibly get any worse . Well , after about an hour , the film had barely moved along at all . The pacing for this movie is very slow , and there are many films that could ? and should ? have been cut not only due to time , but because they paid nothing to the film's progress or character development in any way . Billy Bob Thornton is very good as Ed Crane , and uses the same quiet technique as he did with the character in ' Sling Blade . ' The movie is worth seeing just for his convincing performance . Frances McDormand is quite believable as his wife ; the kind of small-town wife you always hear about . Bingo on Tuesday , alcohol throughout the week ; she seems very depressed , and that is probably why she begins to have an affair with Big Dave . James Gandolfini would not be my first choice for the character of Big Dave , but he pulled it off quite nicely . The obese man proves he has more acting talent than just playing Tony Soprano ( John Goodman would have made a nice choice for Big Dave , only because he is almost always in the Coen Brothers ' films and it seems like they wrote the part for him . I'm surprised they didn't get him for the part ? maybe they tried and he refused ? ) . Tony Shaloub ( ' Men In Black ' ) plays the most enjoyable role of a big-town lawyer sent in to defend McDormand's character . He is wacky , enjoyable , and his crazy antics make the film . His are the only scenes I really laughed at . It seemed the most like a ' Fargo Moment . ' The Coen Brothers , creators of ' Fargo ' and the disappointing ' O Brother , Where Art Thou , ' wrote and directed this film ( well , Joel directed , Ethan produced , they both wrote the script ? ) . I was in the minority about ' O Brother , Where Art Thou . ' I thought the film was boring , slow-paced and weird ( what was the ending all about ? ) . ' Fargo ' was excellent , mainly because it was demented humor and a great script , with some great actors . This film , however , seems to be boasting ' original ' all over . It seems the brothers are trying to stuff their recent films with odd bits and pieces to make them original . Well , I didn't find it original . In the end , ' The Man Who Wasn't There ' is not a winner . It could have been , but after an hour the film seems to slow down to a miserably slow pace , without any good surprises ( like no one saw the end coming ? ) . How this got so much attention from the critics is beyond me , because it just seems like one of those ' Look at me ! I'm original ! ' films . That's two disappointing Coen Brothers films in a row . For me , at least . stars ? turn the movie off once you get an hour ? 1 . 5 hours into it ? John Ulmer
Pretty lame	Pretty terrible little Disney film starring Jay Underwood as a robotic " son " engineered by Alan Thicke who proceeds to find himself engaged in " wonderfully imaginative " situations of " comic unfortunate . . . ness . " unfortunately for us the film is a dire little copycat clone of other real - looking - robots - created - by - mad - scientists movies and the only thing that could have spiced up this film a bit and added some zest would have been if , at the end , Underwood unleashed a whole load of kick-butt on the entire cast and turned into a Terminator sent from the future to eliminate John Connor . By the way , what happened to Jay Underwood ? From " Uncle Buck " to straight-to-video fare such as " Road to Redemption " and commercials for toothpaste ? Choosing a recurring role in this disappointing series may have something to do with his career shortcomings .
An okay family movie , but not particularly memorable	I like Tim Allen and I hate to see him selling himself out like this . Here he's playing an average joe ( named Joe ! Haha the irony ! ) who gets beat up outside work one day by a meanie co-worker ( played by the brilliant Patrick Warburton , one of the most underrated comedians out there ) . Feeling like he has lost his dignity and manhood ( and the fact that it occurred in front of his preteen daughter doesn't help any ) , Joe decides to fight back - by training extensively and preparing for the Next Big Fight . He employs the services of a guru ( Jim Belushi ) to help him learn forms of karate and what not , so he can take down Warburton . The movie is kind of lame insofar that it seems very childish - that's partly the point but , on the other hand , it promotes a bad message to kids . Of course the moral at the end of the story is , " Don't fight . " But we spend an hour and a half of revenge-filled fantasy getting there . It's not a particularly bad film , but neither is it particularly good . I hate to see Tim Allen selling himself out like this because I think he's a fine comedian and this puts his talents to waste . Anyone could play this role . There's a reason it's called " Joe Somebody . " Now here's a good idea : put Patrick Warburton in a good movie for once , and give Tim Allen a good role .
Entertaining in a bad way .	" The Crush " is about a fourteen-year-old girl ( Alicia Silverstone ) who falls in love with a journalist neighbor , played by Cary Elwes ( of " Saw " infamy ) . Elwes rejects her come-ons and after she tries to kiss him gives her a slight warning . However her advances are so strong that after a while he is left dazed , as she accuses him of sexual abuse and has the police arrest him . Destined to clear his name for good , he embarks on a mission to expose her " crush " - and prove to everyone once and for all that she's a psychopath . A lot of movies like this were made back in the ' 80s and ' 90s starting with " Fatal Attraction , " although this is one of the more entertaining ones . As far as the acting goes , Silverstone is very sexy ( she was older than 14 during filming so I can say this without coming across as a perv ) - she's good at playing a devious flirt . Elwes experiments with his off-again-on-again American accent and the good news is that it's more convincing here than in " Saw " ( 2004 ) . Except for a few scenes , he pretty much sounds convincing . His acting is up to par as well . It's not a great movie but it's entertaining , which is exactly what it should be .
Well , everybody has to start somewhere !	This film was made by Stanley Kubrick when he was twenty-four years old . He accepted the job - - a nine-minute short feature about a New Mexico-based priest - - solely for money , as - - at the time - - he was a struggling up-and-comer who had yet to direct the classic " Paths of Glory " ( 1957 ) that would officially put him on the map as a big-time movie-maker . However , everyone has to start somewhere , and some of his film-making techniques CAN be spotted here - - even this early . It's from 1951 but you can notice some irreverent techniques that wouldn't typically have been used around that time period - - and when the priest is in the church at the alter , check out the angle Kubrick takes to show the layout - - he stands back to the left of the priest in a really awkward position . Is this worth watching ? Only for Kubrick completists . As a short feature it's simply quite average , but it will surely grab the interest of any Kubrick Addicts out there who have a hunger for everything Stanley Kubrick .
Boring and average . . .	A very boring and surprisingly average , sappy drama about a music teacher ( Streep ) who taught inner-city-kids the meaning of life through music . Based on a true story but it's been Hollywoodized for sure . Boring , sappy , predictable and almost overbearably corny . Meryl Streep remains an unimpressive actress in my book . stars - John Ulmer
A mess of a movie whose " director's cut " is as bad as the edited version	" Legend " is a legend of film-making because , similar to films by Orson Welles and Sergio Leone , it was assaulted by editors against the director's wishes and transformed into an entirely other picture . The difference between Ridley Scott's " Legend " and the other directors ' films is that both versions of Scott's films are poorly made . The theatrical version released in America dropped the Jerry Goldsmith soundtrack and was cut from 150 minutes to about 90 minutes , and Goldsmith's symphony score was replaced with Tangerine Dream and Jon Anderson ( of Yes ) on vocals . Tangerine Dream fits the film's fantasy storyline and brooding cinematography - if you've heard their music , you'll already know why . The film as a whole is rather unspectacular , though . Tom Cruise plays Jack , a commoner who has to embark on a quest to defeat the Dark Lord ( Tim Curry ) , who plans on destroying the last of the Unicorns and unleashing infinite darkness on the world , as well as marrying Jack's girlfriend . Watching Tom Cruise run around in leotards for two hours isn't exactly my idea of a fun movie . Over the years " Legend " has achieved a cult status ( thanks partly to its numerous edits ) but I've found myself equally underwhelmed by both the American version and the director's cut .
I could go a lifetime without ever seeing Tyra Banks on television again	Talk about over-exposure . First she had a grating , oh-so-very-staged " reality " television show named America's Top Model - which was repetitive garbage - and the next thing you know she's got a big-budget talk show , complete with a huge flickering sign that says " TYRA ! " in the background . Yay ! ( As if we might have forgotten her name . ) Banks is one of the most pretentious , pompous and arrogant people you're likely to ever see grace the television set . Her stint on America's Top Model consisted of constantly reminding all the other models that , hey , she's Tyra Banks ! She , like , really cool and smart and stuff ! She's a model and she knows who's hot and who's not ! If you enjoy promoting materialism and the superficial than by all means , Tyra would likely be your hero . But if you are disgusted - as I am - by watching egotistical , dumb people on television trying to tell other people how they should look more beautiful ( because remember , children - outer beauty is all that really counts ! ) , you're likely to loathe this as I do . As far as talk shows go it is very basic - it's the standard deal with the special guest interviews and such . I just find Tyra Banks to be such a grating figure that I can't even enjoy any part of the interviews . It's clear she thinks so much of herself and often cuts off the people she is interviewing to give her own personal stories that she has been reminded of whilst they were responding to one of her questions . I haven't seen very much of it , but Heidi Klum has a fashion show as well and I found it far more entertaining because Klum - although perhaps not the brightest person in the world - isn't as presumptuous or arrogant as Banks . Maybe she wouldn't be the best candidate for a talk show , but I'd rather watch her pleasant demeanor than have to put up with Trya's big ego .
" Mr . Magoo " Meets " George Of the Jungle "	If you liked " Mr . Magoo " and / or " George Of the Jungle " , you'll most likely enjoy " Dudley Do-Right . " I , personally , found it better than " George of the Jungle , " even though " Dudley " has some very stupid moments . Together as a whole it works , even if it is . . . well . . . stupid . stars on a stupid fun scale - John Ulmer
A great performance stuck in a subpar movie that plays like a daytime drama with awful music	I'm a big Al Pacino fan . I bought " And Justice for All " because of the fact that it starred Pacino , and I was excited because I had heard he was nominated for a Best Actor Oscar . Now , after seeing the film , I can see why - - his performance is great . Unfortunately , it's a great performance stuck in a lousy movie - " And Justice for All " is incompetently directed and , worst of all , the musical score really , really dates the film and almost makes it hard to watch at times . The subplots - like Pacino taking a ride on the judge's helicopter and having it crash - are so ' 70s-ish that I felt as if I were watching an episode of " Starsky and Hutch " or something . Honestly , this movie plays like a cheesy ' 70s daytime drama with better actors . Underneath the mess it has a good message about the legal profession . Pacino fans should see it because his performance is one of his best . However I find it hard to warm up to any movie that presents its courtroom scenes with a disco track playing in the background . If someone were to re-edit this film and insert more dramatic music ( like a John Williams score or something ) , it might actually be watchable . I've never seen music literally ruin a film before , as I have with " And Justice for All . " As you watch it ( if you should choose to ) , you might recognize the score - it's the same song you heard in the last elevator you rode in . Yeah , it's that bad . The composer should be shot .
Not very good	I'm a fan of Eddie Murphy's work on both " SNL " and in movies ( up until the late ' 80s , anyway ) . I expected a lot from this " best of " collection but it's simply not very good . There are a few good gags - the " white man disguise , " James Brown's hottub , The Little Rascals bit - but overall it has more misses than hits . I'm not sure why they thought putting the Gumby skit in here was a good idea . I guess the biggest problem is that they were looking for " Eddie Murphy skits " whereas some of his better ones were those in which he interacted with others and shared the screen . Most of the ones included here are focused just on him , and to be honest a vast majority of them simply aren't very good . Instead , I recommend " The Best of Will Ferrell , " which is to date the best " best of " I've seen . " Best of Eddie Murphy " needs a bit of work done .
Fallon is just OK and the awards ceremony isn't anything special ; but the Guns are back !	I don't like Jimmy Fallon so it is hard for me to " review " this program properly . Last time I submitted a review it mysteriously disappeared a few months later so I better be careful what I say this time . Overall I don't feel this awards show is particularly good . I'm not into MTV to begin with and seeing Eminem and Ja Rule and co . perform doesn't do anything for me . The highlights here were Bruce Springsteen and , of course , what everyone remembers it for today - the comeback of Guns N ' Roses . ( Well , surprise appearance , anyway . ) They kept hying the " surprise " the whole way through the show and they kept playing GN'R music so it was fairly obvious I suppose that GN'R were going to be there . When Axl and his new band come out at first and he starts growling into the microphone it really is blood-chilling . . . but then he starts singing and it goes downhill pretty fast . I actually thought it was a good performance in terms of energy but I admit his vocals weren't up to par . We'll have to wait and see what comes of GN'R - it's been three years since the ' 02 VMAs and we never got a " round two . " If you like the artists involved with this , give it a shot . The only reason I'd ever watch it again is for the GN'R performance .
So disappointing .	I had heard really good things about this comedy . The reviews all seemed to rave that it was clever , outrageously funny , and featured good acting . The real selling point seemed to be the " role reversal " of the two main stars - Robert De Niro playing a shy everyman and Bill Murray playing a suave gangster . When I watched the film I was actually quite disappointed in the role reversal because it isn't very distinct . De Niro has played characters like this before . He's become typecast as a gangster , but just look at any of his films from the ' 70s or the ' 80s like " Taxi Driver " or " Midnight Run " . . . the character is kind of a mix between various other characters he's played in the past . It's not a stretch to see De Niro acting shy - he's basically playing himself in real life . Murray isn't given much to do and seems to be brought in at the script's whimsy to help crack a few jokes , then disappears for a while . . . I didn't really buy his relationship with De Niro and thought the whole concept of them being best buddies seemed a bit off . Uma Thurman is great to look at and this film features one of her rare nude screen performances . . . great body , but the character isn't very deep . I didn't think the connection between her and De Niro was realistic at all , to be honest . Overall , I was disappointed in " Mad Dog and Glory " because I didn't think it was particularly funny , clever or touching . It seemed to me like another average comedy and its awkward genre mixing only further stains its lasting affect .
Classic Disney cartoon but not memorable for me	I am not a Disney fan , perhaps because I grew up in a household with a father obsessed with them . In fact I came to loathe Disney by the time I was a teenager ; I am a WB enthusiast and only like Pixar's films with Disney , along with " Aladdin " and " The Lion King " - which I found a bit more " adult " in nature ( who can't love Williams ' animated impersonation of Woody Allen ? ! ) Some of the classics are good for what they are but in no way are they favorites of mine , and I can't say anyone over the age of 10 is going to enjoy them terribly much . " Alice in Wonderland " is a film I watched often as a child and I have not seen in from beginning to end for many years . I remember it very clearly as well as the musical numbers . I can't say I ever want to watch it again . The book is much better . Actually no it's not , it's just as muddled and drug-crazed . Alice must have been smoking some serious weed in that tree - I'm starting to think the White Rabbit was cocaine or something . I do like the tea party though .
Annoying and off-key with a family-friendly marketing approach	This is the PG-13 " Mad Max " film which introduced the kiddies into the mix , which is hugely disappointing as the two previous entries were ultra-violent , R-rated action masterpieces ( or so the critics say ) with no little kids in sight . This is like the " Jedi " addition to the series - as if George Lucas got his chubby hands on the script and re-wrote it . " Beyond Thunderdome " is cheesy to begin with ( I mean , Tina Turner as a villain of the wastelands ? C'mon ! ) and adding a group of Peter Pan-styled " lost boys " into the film is the icing on the cake . Essentially what starts out as a decent film ( Max having his belongings stolen , ending up at the Thunderdome , playing gladiator with some thugs in the arena ) quickly descends into mediocrity . I would like the cast to reunite for a hard-core R-rated final installment , if only to erase the bad aftertaste of this very disappointing close to the trilogy .
A different kind of " disaster movie " for Spielberg	Forget " Jurassic Park . " This was Steven Spielberg's first true " disaster movie , " albeit it a more literal one . Yes , " 1941 " is a pretty bad film and probably deserves its reputation . It was such a flop in 1979 that advance teasers for " Raiders of the Lost Ark " boasted " from the director of . . . " and listed all of Spielberg's previous films - - except this one . Keep in mind Stevey was new to the game . " JAWS " had been a breakthrough in ' 75 and grossed more than a Columbian drug dealer would make at a party with Robert Downey Jr . , Edward Furlong and Scott Weiland . " Close Encounters " came next in 1977 and broke more records . The critics were just waiting for Spielberg to bomb ; he wasn't solidified as the world's most popular director of all-time yet , and much like today's M . Night Shyamalan , he had a large enough reputation that was fresh enough to fall apart . " 1941 " almost ended it . The movie went phenomenally over budget , ended up being some three hours long , the editors hacked it apart and as a result no one could follow it . The DVD features a 2 and a half hour director's cut that is , surprisingly , no better than the original version . " Once Upon a Time in America " this is not - - Spielberg's editors didn't destroy the movie . BOTH versions sucked ! The cast , at the time , was another reason it was hyped up so much . Get this : John Belushi , Dan Aykroyd , Lorraine Gary , Murray Hamilton , Ned Beatty , John Candy , Mickey Rourke , Christopher Lee , Tim Matheson , Warren Oates , Robert Stack , Treat Williams , Slim Pickens , Joe Flaherty , Michael McKean , Dick Miller , Penny Marshall and James Caan . Nowadays only a few really stand out but back then Gary , Hamilton , Beatty , and Matheson were very popular . Belushi and Matheson had both starred in the smash hit " Animal House " a year before so considering this too was a slapstick comedy , obviously people were expecting a sequel of sorts . The film is split up so each story has at least one famous face . That's part of the reason it fails I think - - too many celebs can wreck a movie sometimes because it's just way too showy and over-packed , trying to make equal room for each person . Sacrificing names for story might have been a better idea . This doesn't seem like a Spielberg film and yet at the same time it represents everything he is known for . It tries to come across as a low-key silly comedy like " Animal House " ( which it was very much cashing in on ) but the problem is Spielberg was so high at this point ( not literally , of course , but maybe that too ) he couldn't handle anything mildly . Every scene plays like a silly slapstick comedy a la " Airplane ! " but it's glamorous , expensive and over-the-top - - betraying slapstick's roots . It's too choreographed and glossy to be a stupid movie . It doesn't click together at any point . Belushi is pretty much wasted and doesn't get many funny scenes . Aykroyd gets a better dealing but his team ( mainly the hilarious John Candy ) all get underplayed and I didn't even understand what the point of Candy's character actually was , generally speaking . This movie is frantic , wild and all over the place . It's surprisingly raunchy and slapstick for a Spielberg film but maybe that's just because he's avoided making another disaster like this ever since . It's not a terrible movie and it's not as bad as " Pearl Harbor " but as a war movie it's just so-so , and as a comedy it really misses its mark because it's too big , bloated and spectacular to find funny - - always aiming for the big stuff instead of the genuine laughs . I think that's a problem Spielberg has had to face his entire career , and even his greatest films can be accused of similar errors in judgment . It's worth seeing just for its reputation's sake , but it's not underrated by any means and certainly a struggle to sit through at times . Spielberg says on the DVD ( which I unfortunately purchased as a blind buy ) that Americans just don't get the film , but it's always greeted with warm welcome in Europe , and they seem to " get it " there . I don't know if that's true , though , because every European I've talked to who's seen this seems to hate it more than Americans I know !
A very big disappointment	I thought seasons one and two of " Chappelle's Show " were very funny . Some skits weren't as good as others , of course , but most of the material was funnier than any modern " Saturday Night Live " episode . After Chappelle left , I admired his reasoning - he was smart enough to avoid what a lot of other performers fell victim to : over-exposure . Comedy Central ate up Chappelle's Show after it broke records on DVD ( highest-selling TV show DVD ever ) , and the exposure was beginning to become too much . So with Dave refusing to reappear for another season , Comedy Central dug into their vaults for skits Dave HADN'T used on previous episodes . Then they hyped up these episodes more than anything I've ever seen before - I've even seen ads for the " Lost Episodes " here on IMDb ! Sitting down tonight to watch the first of the " lost " ( i . e . " stuff Dave didn't like " ) episodes , I knew it wouldn't be very good since Dave hadn't approved of the skits ( hence why they were originally canned ) , but I didn't expect it to be quite as bad as it was . To be fair , I laughed at the revenge joke involving the man in the wheelchair getting thrown down the stairs ( as cruel as it was ) - but the rest was pretty lame . And what was with the commercials ? The show was on less than a minute before they had another three-minute commercial break . It's obvious Comedy Central is milking it , fifteen minutes of the episode had passed before they had even aired the third skit of the show ! I wasn't expecting much but I still found myself disappointed . They really milked this for all its worth and if Dave doesn't come back for a fourth season ( and it doesn't look like he will ) , then it seems Comedy Central has decided to end " Chappelle's Show " on a low note .
Do people take this seriously ?	If you take this movie seriously , you'll have no fun like I did . But if you laugh at it , it's pretty funny . I always need a good laugh , and Vertical Limit delivers just that . . nah I'm just kidding . But seriously , if you take it too seriously you'll have no fun . Even then though , it's a pretty dumb movie . I don't know what they were thinking , but for a friday night ? It's a perfect movie . See it sometime when you've got nothing to do , then maybe you'll have some fun watching it .
I like how Pamela Anderson is credited on IMDb as a " cinematographer "	If your idea of a good time is watching some druggie rock star bonking a famous Playboy bunny then this " movie " will certainly fulfill you . It is , at least , leagues better than that awful Paris Hilton tape . However , in general , I just have a hard time of finding entertainment in watching two famous people going at it for an hour . Maybe it's just me . Let's give a rundown of what occurs in this film , though : - Pamela Anderson has sex with Tommy Lee in a moving car - Pamela Anderson has sex with Tommy Lee on a private boat - Pamela Anderson has sex with Tommy Lee in her private trailerI'm sure it must have been hard for her to be " cinematographer " while having to perform the sexual acts . I also like how she's credited as " Makeup Artist . " Makeup for what ? Maybe I don't really want to know .
Poor animation and simply not very funny or enjoyable	I'm already tired of DreamWorks ' animation studios . They've stolen the ideas of Pixar and created ugly , annoying films like " Shark Tale " and " Madagascar . " Oh , and " Robots . " This one is just as bad as DreamWorks ' other animated films Whereas Pixar gave 3D animated films a good name back in ' 95 with " Toy Story , " DreamWorks stole the magic a few years later with " Antz " ( which was pretty funny ) and then " Shrek " ( which I didn't care for as much as other people ) . At first it was kind of cute and " Shrek " and " Shrek 2 " were good enough ( I particularly liked " Shrek 2 " ) but after that the line kind of blurred . The animation in " Madagascar " was simply lazy and " Robots " is not very different . There are a few moments of incredible landscape , but the features of the characters themselves are hideous and appalling . The voice talents are impressive - Mel Brooks , Ewan McGregor , Halle Berry , Robin Williams - but Williams and Brooks are the only ones who really stand out , and even then , Williams isn't so funny anymore . ( He needs to get back into adult comedy . ) The " in-jokes " are only so-so . There are a few chuckle-worthy gags , but nothing that made me laugh out loud . I think DreamWorks should leave the animated family films to Pixar and go back to hogging all the Oscar nominations .
That Darn Remake !	" That Darn Cat " is a makeover of the Disney film with Haley Mills . This time around , the world is darker , the main character is darker . . . and the cat is darker . Christina ( " Addams Family , " " Sleepy Hollow " ) Ricci is the main character for our story . She's a psychopathic , Gothic creature with black all around . She moves to a new town , finds a new cat , finds a new mystery , and solves it ( I wasn't expecting that ) . Along the way is Thomas F . Wilson , better known as Biff from " Back to the Future , " and Michael McKean - - who does a bunch of nothing considering how funny the guy usually is . " That Darn Cat " fails on a lot of levels . It's watchable , and probably should be seen once on TV , but I wouldn't go out of your way to see it . Christina Ricci is fine as the title character ; but I found that the whole moody , Gothic thing was a bit overdone - - whether it was on the script like that or not , it was overbearing . They kept stressing to the audience , " This girl is dark , " but I think I got it the first time . Dean Jones , from the original " That Darn Cat , " makes a few cameos in this flick . Whatever happened to him ? The last I remember him in a film without being a cameo was " Beethoven " . . . Thomas F . Wilson does seem to prove he can act out characters other than Biff , Griff and Buford Tannen , but if I were him I wouldn't quit the day job just yet - - a film like this isn't going to get him back in the acting arena . The film's gags don't exactly work all the time . Sometimes they work a little bit , but on the whole , this film is a pretty big mess that should only be seen on television when nothing good is on . stars - John UlmerP . S . - - Be on the lookout for cameos galore , including " Cheers " man John Ratzenburger .
A nice try , but no cigar	The believability of " invisible man " pictures has been a problem long left ignored in Hollywood . The main problem is that invisible characters never seem to do what real humans would do if they were given the powers . This creates a distance between the viewers and the characters themselves , resulting in alienation . Before Paul Verhoeven attempted to portray a realistic and edgy invisible man in his " Hollow " ( pun intended ) sci-fi mess , John Carpenter took a swing , too - and similarly missed . This isn't as hard-edged as " Hollow Man " ( it's PG-13 ) but Chevy Chase's character does become involved in some rather uncomfortable and awkward situations . Beginning with sexual lust as a visible man ( such as the brief fantasy sequence involving Daryl Hannah wearing very little ) and transferring to sexual lust as an invisible man , a few things are suggested at - a speedy sex scene with a swift cut-off , for example - but I can't help but imagine a more gritty and realistic invisible man picture is still waiting to be made . . . " Hollow Man " had its moments but it was just too silly as a whole to find enjoyable . " Memoirs of an Invisible Man " is an espionage thriller in which Chase's accidental invisibility is caused by a government test . Chase's yuppie escapes unscathed but soon finds himself being pursued by a ruthless baddie ( Sam Neill in fine smarmy form ) . Love interest blossoms , etc . , etc . , etc . . . a lot of clichés . So far the best invisible man picture is the original with Claude Rains . It seems every time Hollywood attempts to produce a unique " twist " on the concept it falters . Some day I'd really like to see this idea taken to full expansion .
Disappointed . Expected more from DeNiro .	This gritty crime / cop buddy movie disappointed me . The message they passed was too strong . I rented this movie for entertainment , not a message . It would be okay if it was hidden , but no , it's the WHOLE way through the movie . Robert DeNiro was barely in this movie , and when he was he was just a nothing . De Niro was such a strong actor in " King of Comedy , " " Mean Streets , " " Taxi Driver , " " Raging Bull , " " GoodFellas , " etc . He's my favorite actor of all-time and seeing him in stuff like this doesn't really lower my respect for him but it just makes me wish he'd get smart and stop signing on to this stuff . Actually to be fair " 15 Minutes " probably seemed pretty good on paper . There's a surprise midway through that I'm sure De Niro thought would turn out to be respectable - but the problem is that due to false marketing it just makes his fans very mad . The roles aren't as clichéd as I expected and neither is the movie - unfortunately it DOES become quite clichéd when it resorts to a silly violent ending . It's a huge contradiction - it preaches against violence but presents a world in which ruthless villains commit brutal murders . It's saying to us , " The media focuses on violence too much - so here's some more for you to admire while we're preaching you about how bad it is . " This movie is extremely gritty and its brutality amidst accusations strikes a raw chord - at least for me . I found it a bit too over-the-top : like some sort of Paul Verhoeven wannabe , lacking the satirical edge of " RoboCop " or even the mediocre " Starship Troopers . " At least that movie had a point , as muddled as it may have been . " 15 Minutes " tries to have a point . It thinks it is clever , but it is not . Robert De Niro gives a good performance but has so little to work with that he doesn't leave much of an impression . Edward Burns is simply obnoxious and fails to really spark any sort of chemistry or connection with the audience ( and De Niro's character , too ) . Overall " 15 Minutes " is just a huge disappointment . I bought the DVD because of De Niro ( hey , I even bought " Sam's Song " / " The Swap " ) and watched it again . I'll admit that I found it somewhat better , at least as passable entertainment - unfortunately due to its " moral message " and how bad it is at successfully conveying it , I find it hard to just pass it off as a mere buddy movie . It's trying to be something more , which is its hugest flaw .
Pretty interesting plot but poor execution	Professor David Rhodes ( Robert Hays ) lost his older brother to the Vietnam War in 1966 . When he hears that a famous professor is working on a time machine , he persuades the scientist to allow him to travel back in time and correct history , by saving the life of President Kennedy and therefore ( somehow ) preventing the war in Vietnam . I'm not sure any scientist would allow a man to try to do something like this - - as we learned in BACK TO THE FUTURE it can create confusin ' paradoxes . But he does . Hays ( " Airplane ! " ) looks bored most of the time ; " 7th Heaven's " Catherine Hicks plays giddy love interest . She's bubbly and annoying . Overall this is an intriguing idea but poor , poor execution - - typical made-for-TV-movie junk .
I wanted to like it , but . . .	I thought the ads for this film looked fairly promising , and the fact that it was rated R seemed to indicate that it wasn't going to be another teen-geared PG-13 comedy . When I saw that Robert Downey Jr . was in the cast , I was even more interested in seeing it . And , in all fairness , the first twenty minutes or so are really good . The film is a little too smug and " indie " for its own good ( note to aspiring filmmakers : stop trying to imitate Wes Anderson ; he's not that good ) . But it quickly goes downhill once Charlie Bartlett , the protagonist , heads off to school . The problem is the characters - they're not very realistic , and that hurts the credibility of the film . Charlie is meant to be precocious and a bit of an outcast , but he actually just comes across as being very creepy - something about the performance by Anton Yelchin made me very uncomfortable . I liked it at first , but as his character begins to become more confident , he becomes incredibly unlikable ; and that's a problem when we're supposed to like the main character . The film is clearly inspired in this regard by Ferris Bueller , and you can see the similarities in Charlie , but he doesn't contain any of the charm or wit of Ferris ; he comes across as an imitator with a really demented side . And perhaps part of the awkwardness comes from Yelchin's distinctly un-American demeanor which doesn't contrast very well against the film's whole American message ( it's a comment on how fixated America has become on drugs and medication ) . There's just something " off " with Yelchin's act that I couldn't quite place my finger on , but by the end of the film I really hated him , and I was sympathizing more with Downey's character . Tyler Hilton gives a good performance as a school bully , but he's dealing with an incredibly one-dimensional and laughably unrealistic character ; he is introduced as a one-dimensional bully who beats kids up , but he has a rapid change of heart and suddenly becomes a " nice guy . " The message behind this transformation is admirable , but it's hilariously naive and quite ridiculous . The rest of the high school is a blur of clichés and faceless masses - Charlie suddenly becomes very popular because of his psychiatric advice and prescriptions he hands out to classmates , but apart from one character ( his eventual girlfriend and Downey's daughter ) , all the high schoolers are handled poorly , and there's never much of a gradual change in Bartlett's popularity ; he just becomes universally loved by his schoolmates overnight . Ultimately the film is amusing in parts , but taken as a whole , and because of its reliance upon an unlikable and frankly incredibly irritating main character , it really falls apart . Downey's performance is great but it's buried by its surroundings ; he isn't given room to expand , and all the clichés and faceless characters that comprise this film really dampen the impact of the better moments - because Charlie Bartlett does have moments of greatness , but they're all too brief to excuse the uncountable flaws .
Not as bad as they say it is , but still pretty poor . . .	StripteaseDire , but strangely fascinating , Demi Moore vehicle about a single mother who turns to a life of stripping in order to gain custody of her daughter . ( Robert Patrick is the drug-stealing ex-husband who gains custody of the child . ) Ving Rhames is a bodyguard and Burt Reynolds has a nice co-star role as a sleazy political candidate . This movie was extremely bashed when it came out , but it's better than " Showgirls , " and sort of watchable . If you don't expect much of a story , then this is for you . . . be warned , however , that there is a lot of stripteasing in this film . /
Very silly and outdated cash-in , but I used to love it	It's unfortunate that sometimes nostalgia can turn out to be a deceiving pain . I used to watch " The Ewok Adventure " on VHS when I was younger and was a huge fan - I'd view it frequently ( probably even before I saw all the original " Star Wars " films ) and , although I recognized it was cheesy even as a child , I still enjoyed it . Today , it simply doesn't hold up . It comes across as a desperate and silly cash-in on " Star Wars : Episode IV : Return of the Jedi . " The " lovable " Ewoks of that film return here to wreak more havoc - they find a boy and his younger sister after they crash land on the planet . The boy and sister have lost their parents , whom were apparently grabbed out of the space ship by some scary alien creature . The alien creature's special F / X are absolutely terrible which explains why his full frontal view is saved until the ending - which is ludicrous and way over-the-top . If you're a " Star Wars " fan you'll need to own this simply because it's got the Lucas " stamp of approval " - but to any casual viewer it comes across as a desperate and pathetic franchise cash-in .
Arnie vs . Satan	Arnold peaked at the end of the ' 90s , I guess . He's battled Terminators , Greek gods , bears , alligators , planes , and macho men in fish net clothing . The only choice left is , of course , Satan . So they put together a movie about Satan and gave Arnie the lead . I think everyone working on this thought it would be much better than it actually is . The script was in development for years and Arnie fought to get it made . It's kind of unfortunate because Arnold gives a fairly decent performance in a film muddled with clichés . Of course , it's hard enough to buy a guy with a body like Arnold being a slob who drinks beer and pizza smoothees for breakfast . Getting someone like Jim Belushi might have seemed more realistic . Apart from the physicality , Arnold's performance is fine . He cries . He does the emotion scenes well enough - at least well enough to find bearable . It's the direction that ruins this movie . Peter Hyams is a terrible director and has ruined some very unique films in the past ( his most notorious butchering in my opinion was of a 1983 Michael Douglas film called " The Star Chamber " - great premise , awful directing ) . " End of Days " is like " Exorcist " meets every supernatural thriller ever made . On top of that , Gabriel Byrne should be more menacing . Robin Tunney should be less butch-looking . The direction shouldn't feel like some low-grade TV commercial - all style , no substance . Is the movie terrible ? No . It's not as bad as everyone made it out to be . But it's pretty much the definition of " mediocre . " Do I own it on DVD ? Hell yeah . It's an Arnold movie - it's an automatic must-buy . But if you're not a fan of Arnie , I wouldn't recommend it - at all . It pretty much feels like any average made-for-TV scary-flick - with even worse direction . The only other good aspect of this film was that it brought Axl Rose out of seclusion to record his first original song in seven years with a new incarnation of Guns N ' Roses . The song , " Oh My God , " didn't do too well with the critics . A bit of a shame , really . I dug it . It also fits the industrial , edgy tone of the film .
A simple enough diversion , but not very memorable	Sex Drive looked funny based on commercials I saw , and its early reviews were rather positive , but I was pretty disappointed . It was only marginally entertaining and came across like a really lame Superbad attempt at raunchy teen comedy . There are a few decent cameos ( David Koechner is worth mentioning ) but as a whole it falls flat , and it's so crude that its sweeter moments feel artificial . I could also go a full lifetime without seeing Clark Duke in a film ever again . There is , however , one saving grace : James Marsden . Channeling all the clichéd " bad older brother " roles from ' 80s teen flicks ( my first impression was Bill Paxton from Weird Science ) , Marsden's psychotically macho performance is deserving of a better film . The unrated cut of the film ( which gives Marsden extended scenes of gay jokes ) also deserves some credit ? to separate it from typical cash-grab Director Cut DVDs , the filmmakers included random shots of porn stars against green scenes and integrated them into the film , just to make it truly different from the theatrical cut . Lots of penises and vaginas dropping out of nowhere . Funny in a gimmicky way , but it wears thin rather quickly , and is ultimately just a greater example of the film's sleazy edge .
It's certainly on cruise control . . .	Disappointing , unnecessary sequel sees returning Bullock boarding a ship with new boyfriend Patrick , only for the cruise to be interrupted when hassled , angry terrorist Willem Dafoe takes the vessel hostage in hopes of getting a personal vendetta sorted out . Surprisingly directed by Jan De Bont ( " Speed " ) and with some good actors , this overblown sequel lacks the punch , creativity , originality and downright ferocity of the original . It feels very different , more corny , less hard ( what was R is now PG-13 ) , and very contrived . This isn't a series that lends itself to returning characters in the same way as " Die Hard , " particularly because it's not any good the second time around . ( It could have been , perhaps , but . . . ) Keanu Reeves turned this film down after reading the original script . That tells you something about it . Still , not one of the worst films I've seen , and certainly passable - - if you don't let grudges blind you . Speed : Speed 2 : Cruise Control : This is a sequel that's on cruise control , all right !
" We Three Kings . . . "	The Review " Three Kings " is a grand movie . It's got superbly choreographed action sequences , a hilarious dark side , and one of a human side , as well . Its characters stand on their own and make up their minds about what they want to do , and a lot of the time it's not the best decision . They are on a quest by themselves and they must carry it out . But their human nature may stand in the way . The Setup " Three Kings " is set in the aftermath of the first Gulf War . It involves about four men from the U . S . army finding out where gold is hidden in Iraq , and their mission as they go out to find it for themselves . But before they can take the loot , their human nature gets in the way as they see innocent civilians in a small town being killed by Saddam's armies . So they decide to help the people of the small town , and in the process must choose to take the money and run , or help out , go AWOL , and cross the border with the people to take them to freedom . The Plus ( + ) Side " Three Kings " is a wickedly funny satire on the Gulf War . Only I wouldn't exactly call it a satire . It is more of a dark film with a dark blend of on-the-side humor . And the humor must be acquired ; not all people will find this movie funny . If you do not think a cow being chased around by three military officers in a Humvee and being blown up by a landmine in a bloody mess is funny , this movie is probably not the best choice for you . But it is filmed darkly and is the definition of gritty ; yet , unlike the film " Fight Club , " it still manages to have a wickedly funny dark side of comedy that I found is one of the best elements of the entire film . I particularly enjoy one scene in which George Clooney threatens three men , by saying " would you like to return to your day job ? " All three start thinking about their day jobs back home . One man remembers his job at an airport . Another as a penpusher . Then , one man remembers shooting stuffed animals with a shotgun . He turns to Clooney . " I don't have a day job , sir . " You've got to see it to get it . The Down ( - ) SideThe length of the film in some areas got in the way of my enjoyment , including a scene in a shrine that turned boring and overused pretty fast . But it pays some importance to a character later in the film , so I guess I can't complain . Other than that , the film doesn't really have anything wrong with it . The actors are great , the script is great , the directing is great . The movie is great . The Closing Paragraph " Three Kings " should be witnessed by everyone . Especially if you like dark comedies , violent comedies , dramas , romance movies , and " Fight Club . " You've gotta like one of those , and if you don't , steer away from " Three Kings . " But if you're open to one of the most dark , humorous and gritty war films in recent years , open your ears , shut up and watch the movie . Shh , your popcorn-chewing's getting on my nerves . Evaluation :
The absolute worst Kevin Costner movie ever made .	Saying a Kevin Costner movie is bad is kind of like saying cheese smells . It just does . To be fair , some of his films have been quite good . . . " Open Range , " " Field of Dreams , " " The Untouchables , " " No Way Out " . . . you could do worse than watch these films . But he's made far more bad films than good ones . . . and I think he's simply a very bad actor and films like this solidify that . It seems Costner has a huge ego and always takes on these " epic " revisionist or revisionist future films like " The Postman " and " Waterworld " . " Robin Hood : Men in Tights " ( err , I mean , " Prince of Thieves " ) is quite similar . It's a whole " new " spin on the Robin Hood tale . And it stinks . ( Almost as bad as cheese . ) The cast is otherwise pretty good . You've got Alan Rickman as a villain and that's always a plus . Sean Connery has a cameo , too . But come on , Morgan Freeman in a Robin Hood film ? I hate to break the news to everybody but Robin Hood didn't have any black pals called Azeem ( if he did then I apologize sincerely but since I read the book and don't recall an African emigrant being mentioned , I'm sticking to my guns ) . I understand they have to have blacks in the film so they don't appear to be " racist . " I'm not racist and Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors ever but come on . . . would you put an Asian guy named Heroshima in a film about George Washington and the Revolution ? Would you have him become George's best buddy and offer insightful advice ? NO ! Somehow I just find this film to be quite dull and plodding and over-long . Political correctness aside ( and trust me , there's plenty ) it's simply LIFELESS . . . ironically appropriate given that Kevin Costner's voice never fails to put me to sleep . Overall you could do much better - go watch the original Michael Curtiz version ( one of the greatest ever and certainly the best Robin Hood film adaptation ) , the Disney cartoon ( aw come on it's entertaining ) or the Mel Brooks version . Combined together they're all better than this - which is saying a lot considering Brooks ' " Men in Tights " was a bad film to begin with .
Has some good parts , but is ultimately sophomoric and not as consistent as Trey and Matt's later work	" Cannibal ! The Musical " is inspired by the true story of Alferd Packer ( although his real name was allegedly " Alfred " and " Alferd " came about because he didn't know how to spell his own name correctly ) . Packer was one of only two men - along with Albert Fish - to ever be convicted of cannibalism in America . ( Apparently serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer had enough going against him already that he wasn't tried for cannibalism on top of mass murder ) . Packer led a group of five men into Colorado in search of gold . They got lost and were stranded in desolate conditions , and eventually Packer killed his men and ate them . ( Although according to Wikipedia recent evidence indicates he never killed them , and in 1981 he was apparently acquitted of crimes long after his death . I guess they figured eating people who are already dead in order to survive doesn't qualify as full-out cannibalism . I'm not really sure about the specifics on how that works . ) Trey Parker and Matt Stone made this movie before " South Park . " I believe it was actually filmed in 1994 and first screened at the Alferd Packer College ( yes , there's a college named after him ) which is presumably located in Colorado . It's become a cult film over the years and the title was changed to " Cannibal : The Musical " after Troma producers convinced Trey that not enough people outside of the state were aware of who Alferd Packer actually was . ( I certainly wasn't - I thought it was a fictional character before looking up the film on Wikipedia . ) First things first - I have so far been largely unimpressed by Trey and Matt's live-action ventures . I've become a huge " South Park " fan within the past year or so , but I bought " Orgazmo " on DVD and thought it was a very juvenile and average comedy , and although I have not seen " BASEketball " yet , even Trey and Matt have acknowledged that it is not a good film , so I don't feel like I'm entirely missing out . " Cannibal " is a huge cult film and I had heard a lot of good things about it from various people on the Internet , in particular one Troma video fan . Well , this is my first Troma video ( if it qualifies as one ) and maybe that's part of the reason I couldn't get into it . Parts of it are very funny , but for the most part it really isn't very humorous at all . It actually develops something of a story and isn't as loud or obvious as some of Parker's other material . " South Park " is very satirical and witty but it's much more obvious than the comedy here , which is tamer and not quite as edgy . Some of the songs are quite funny but a number of them are inferior versions of songs that would appear in the " South Park " movie and " Team America : World Police . " Songs from that film like " The End of an Act " ( the one that bashes Ben Affleck and Michael Bay ) are much cleverer and musically catchy than anything found here . The cast is generally weak and Trey is visibly awkward throughout - presumably since it was his first real movie . It's very low-budget ( filmed for $125 , 000 - compared to the eventual $1 million they received per episode of " That's My Bush ! " in 2001 ) , and part of the reason the film isn't as engrossing at times is due to its budget : it looks like a student movie made by some friends who made up a lot of gags as they went along . . . and for the most part that's probably a rather accurate summary . I know the film has a cult following and an impressive rating on this site , but I think if you're not a die-hard Trey Parker fan or a follower of the Troma film series , it'll leave you a bit underwhelmed , especially if you're familiar with the boys ' recent work on " South Park " and " Team America . " It has its strong points but they are far and few between , and for the most part it's a very amateurish production that isn't up to par with their later stuff . An interesting note of curiosity for fans of " South Park , " but I couldn't really warm up to it .
The beginning shows promise , but soon it just goes downhill	The film opens in Paris . Joshua ( Dennis Quaid ) , a U . S . Military official , is eating with his family . He decides to leave and as he walks away he witnesses his wife and young son killed in a brutal suicide bombing . In a fit of rage , after their funeral Joshua goes to the nearest Muslim temple and shoots about five or six Muslims in the head at point blank range . He then flees to the Foreign Legion , fighting in the Yugoslav war as a mercenary ; doing fighting with the Serbians against the Muslims ( hmm , I wonder why ? ) . Eventually Joshua finds himself transporting a nursing woman named Maria ( Natassja Kinski ) to safety . . . and finds himself questioning his own motives . Considering that the film was directed by a Serbian it's not hard to imagine he had some sort of ulterior motive . Predrag Antonijevic was born in Nis , Serbia , Yugoslavia . Could there be a reason he chose this particular subject as a film choice ? Surprisingly I expected an anti-Muslim piece but it's actually more of a " don't judge people by their religion " piece . Oliver Stone's involvement as producer perhaps solidifies this . But I still felt like the message was a bit wishy-washy - at one point all Muslims are evil , then suddenly they're helpless victims . I'm not necessarily saying that " Savior " is a worthless propaganda piece with lack of focus . . . but I am saying that - judged solely as a film - it isn't particularly interesting or original . I thought it could have been much better . I was rather disappointed . It's just not very well fleshed out and I didn't understand what , exactly , it was trying to say - other than that you can't take your frustration out on those with differing religions . . . but that seems like a rather redundant moral .
Sorry , I didn't fall for it .	Will Smith is the world's most popular film star . No , seriously . He is . Statistically , he draws the most customers for Hollywood . It's rumored that every time a Will Smith movie bombs and the statistics drop , so do the film executives ? from their skyscrapers . ( Just kidding , I made that one up . ) They say it's because he's a " white black . " I don't know what that's supposed to mean , or maybe I do and I just don't want to upset anyone . Hollywood is still a very race-targeted business and Smith himself claimed in an interview that they wouldn't cast an African-American lead opposite him in the film for fear of alienating those stuffy middle-class redneck conservatives . ( I am , of course , saying this with tongue planted firmly in cheek . ) Instead they opted for Eva Mendes . Bravo , Hollywood . Mendes is very pretty and all , but she shares absolutely zero chemistry with Will Smith . In fact I found most of the film's sequences involving " Hitch " ( Smith ) , a successful " love doctor , " forced . The funnier moments involved Hitch teaching his protégés how to seduce women ? the clownish parts of " Hitch " reference a sort of physical , silly comedy in the vein of Chaplin and Keaton ( such as when Hitch tries to teach a man how to dance , or more appropriately how not to dance . ) . That's when " Hitch " is at its best . It's at its worst when it's layering on the sugarcoated romantic schlock , and if this flick were a cake , it'd be the fattiest piece of calorie-packed gooey nonnutritive substance ever . " Hitch " had potential to be different from the other romantic comedies ? the ads made it look like it was to be about two sparring love experts ( a hook-up doctor and a gossip columnist ) battling each other with witty verbal attacks and , in the process , falling helplessly in love . Instead , we get the standard routine : 1 . Guy gets Girl 2 . Girl can't believe how perfect Guy is 3 . Guy hides a secret from Girl 4 . Girl misunderstands Guy's secret 5 . Girl breaks up with Guy 6 . Guy reveals Girl was wrong 7 . Girl feels bad about her misunderstanding 8 . Guy and Girl make upAll you've got to know about " Hitch " is the following : 1 ) If you've seen at least one romantic comedy in your lifetime , you will know this inside-out ? before you even walk into the theater . 2 ) If you like Will Smith , you might like this . 3 ) If you think Eva Mendes is hot , rent " Training Day . " Personally , I found this all rather dry . It's not a horrible film , it's not offensive and it doesn't leave a bad taste . Yep , it's nice , gentle and sweet and a good date movie , I suppose . But I guess I've just seen this whole thing one too many times , now .
Disappointing Look at John Williams ' Music for " Jaws 2 " . . .	I kind of hoped this would be an intriguing look into John Williams and his music . Instead , I got Williams talking about how he doesn't like to do music for sequels but did here - - okay , that's nice , but why doesn't he tell us HOW he gets inspiration for film themes ? Nope , no insights into the man's mind here , just " I don't like sequel music because it's not fun , " then the credits role . It's not entirely bad , but it was disappointing .
Worn , Misused , and Slightly Entertaining . . .	( some spoilers ) " Broken Arrow " - starsI first saw " Broken Arrow " as an in-flight movie from Heathrow to Dulles . I enjoyed it the first time , but only on second viewing did it strike me how average , misused and mediocre this film is . Christian Slater and John Travolta play US pilots who have to fly nuclear weapons cross country . Unfortunately , half way , Travolta tries to hijack the ship and shoot Slater , but fails . He releases the nukes over sandy dunes , then launches himself and Slater out of the ship . After crashing on ground , Slater teams up with a cutesy-tutesy ranger and the two go after Travolta to find out his plan . Travolta plans on stealing the nukes and making the government pay to get them back , or else he will nuke the south-west of the US . So Slater and what's-her-face end up fighting for the nukes on a speeding train . " Broken Arrow " borrows from just about every single action film out there , including " Mission : Impossible , " " Speed , " " Die Hard , " and the list goes on and on . Mad Man steals nukes ; makes people pay ; Good Guy fights him . Seen it , right ? Sadly , right . Everything is cliched , but the worst thing is that it has been done before , and ten times better . " Speed " was just about one of the most explosive films in recent years ; " Broken Arrow " is just another rip-off . Director John Woo , who usually makes quite good kung-fu / slow-motion flicks ( " Face / Off " is one of the best action films in recent years ) , fails here at what he usually does so easily . Some of his mistakes are classics . 1 . He presents us with an overused plot ( as I said before ) , and shallow characters and dialogue . Now sometimes the dialogue is fun , like when an attack chopper is chasing Slater and the pilot says , " Let's have some fun . " Because if he didn't say that we'd be saying , " C'mon , he's in a helicopter and he can't shoot the guy ? " But because he says he is playing with them , it makes it more fun to watch . There's also a part where the female lead runs at a computer nerd working on a nuclear bomb , and he grabs her and says , " You thought I was a computer nerd , didn't you ? Lady , I was a Navy Seal ! " Stuff like that is great , but the other things characters say are pretty shallow . 2 . With a plot ( and characters ) as shallow as this , he tries to make everything very dramatic and tense and symbolic . In an intelligent action film like " Face / Off " that works , but here the characters ARE shallow , and when we see them walking in slow motion making appearances ( look at the scene where Travolta walks over a sand dune ) just looks stupid . I nearly laughed when I saw Travolta filmed in slow-mo , and the whole thing with the twenty dollars is both overused and misused . 3 . Too many explosions for its own good actually makes the film boring after a while . Truly . We get so used to the explosions that pretty soon they just get tiring and boring . I was getting pretty tired watching this flick , and thought about flipping it off at one point . 4 . The ending ( spoilers ) involves John Travolta fighting in a train with Christian Slater over a remote control that makes nuclear bombs go off . Things like that have been done before , and while the ending is particularly messy and nice , I still have seen better endings ( " Face / Off , " " The Rock , " " Speed " - - to name more recent " explosive " movies ) . I don't hate this film , and it is okay , but I'd never strongly recommend it , mainly because it is worn , misused , and slightly entertaining , but not entertaining enough . Before I close this review , I want to address one more thing . The nuclear bomb remote . Now , hold on a sec . Does it seem odd to you that the fate of 500 , 000 people can be held within a single remote control ? Is this what our tax-money goes towards ? So computer nerds can make really large digital readouts that look like alarm clocks , with a blinking interface that looks like a cell phone ? Does our money pay so some guy can hold a TV-remote and determine the fate of half a million souls ? I sure hope not .
Lazy slapstick , but it will entertain you	Topper Harley ( Charlie Sheen ) is living in a Buddhist monastery , doing odd jobs for the locals , when he's recruited by the Military to rescue a rescue team ( which initially was sent in to rescue a rescue team to rescue a rescue team to rescue . . . etc . ) from Iraq . At first he's reluctant but eventually agrees . Once there he unleashes hell and becomes a one-man army as he takes on everyone in sight . The first " Hot Shots ! " movie was basically a spoof of " Top Gun " and this film is basically a spoof of the Rambo movies starring Sylvester Stallone . Sheen runs around with a bandana and a crossbow killing people in Iraq and flexes his sweaty muscles . ( He worked out eight hours a day in preparation for the shoot so that he would not feel embarrassed at the film's screening . ) Lloyd Bridges returns , now as the President of the United States , along with the unnecessary love interest Valerina Golino , who is totally there just for her looks . Other notables have small roles - namely Rowan Atkinson - and some bad impersonators . The movie is rather lazy in terms of being an actual spoof - it takes the easy route much of the time and isn't even as good as the original , which wasn't great to begin with . But for the most part it does deliver and has some funny segments , like the Saddam Hussein showdown . If you're just looking for entertainment , this will do ; but I'd recommend " Airplane , " " The Naked Gun " or even the original " Hot Shots " instead if you haven't seen them yet .
Good premise , but it wears thin fast	This was an odd directorial choice for the Farrelly Brothers ( " Dumb and Dumber , " " There's Something About Mary " ) . It's an animated film ( in parts ) about the internal workings of a man's body . The man is played by Bill Murray during the " live action " sequences . These are intercut with animated sequences that involve cells and amoebas and organs and so on and so forth voiced by the likes of William Shatner , Chris Rock , Laurence Fishburne , David Hyde Pierce ( Niles from " Frasier " ) , Kid Rock and Ron Howard . The cells are all animated cartoon characters who look , talk and act like humans . They live in the vast metropolis of " Frank " ( Murray's character ) . When he feels sick , the metropolis begins to wither away . Chris Rock voices one of Frank's defending cells who teams up with a special medical pill ( swallowed by Frank ) to take on Thrax ( Fishburne ) , the maniacal germ causing Frank to feel sick . If you think this sounds really weird , you're right . It is . But it's also very clever and unique . The problem is that the animation is poor , the vocal talents are a bit too self-conscious and the animation is almost too realistic at time - it originally got a PG-13 rating . It's pretty seedy stuff . The live action sequences are okay but Murray looks kind of out of it . Overall I was disappointed because I expected something funnier and cleverer , when in fact the movie dies out really quick and resorts to lame jokes like popping whiteheads on people .
Quite disappointing	Call me anything you want , but the old " VeggieTales " shorts are very fun to watch . They appeal to both adults and children ; their humor is juvenile on one level and very adult on another , similar to " The Simpsons . " " VeggieTales " actually became so famous for a while in the regular mainstream market that Big Idea ( the creators of the shorts ) began to extend the new movies , and then created their own full-length theatrical feature film , " Jonah : A VeggieTales Movie . " Unfortunately , the full-length film proves that thirty-minute shorts are far better . The movie's Christian preaching is clearer than in the shorts , and the story itself runs out of steam rather fast . The Veggies are traveling and their car breaks down , and while they're stranded in a seafood restaurant of some sort , the Pirates Who Don't Do Anything begin to tell them of a tale involving Jonah , who was told by God to deliver a message to the people of Ninheva . He instead boarded a pirate ship in an attempt to fool God , but soon a maelstrom had him thrown off board by the pirates and swallowed by an enormous whale . I ultimately couldn't really get into this film - it's not anywhere near as funny as the classic Veggie shorts or successful in its fusion of preaching Biblical values and slapstick humor . Overall , something of a " mixed vegetables " bag . ( Pun intended . )
Incredibly disappointing .	I had really looked forward to seeing " A Perfect World " and was excited when it finally came on television in the UK . Clint Eastwood is always a reliable director , I adore low-key character studies and it seemed as though it might have a very promising story at its core . The first twenty minutes or so are great . I was drawn into the film immediately and felt pity for Costner's character . Honestly , Eastwood manipulates the audience a bit in Costner's intro - after all , as we all know , prison characters are only likable if redeemed by acts of kindness , or by showing us " he isn't so bad after all . " This happens in " A Perfect World " when Costner shows up bravely just in time to stop a woman from being raped and abused . However , it worked on me , and I liked his character . After that it sort of goes downhill . The movie becomes , to be honest , rather dull and unmoving . It could easily lose 30 minutes ' worth of footage . Some subplots are unnecessary and the interaction between Costner and the boy , although fairly realistic , isn't altogether believable , and I was left feeling a bit underwhelmed by the time the film had ended . Overall it's good enough for a single viewing , but could have been a lot better . Eastwood's made much better character studies before and since , and I recommend those more so than I do " A Perfect World . "
Does every successful foreign film have to be remade by Americans ?	" Point of No Return " is a remake of the successful French film " La Femme Nikita , " by Luc Besson ( " The Fifth Element " and " Leon the Professional " ) . I've seen parts of the original and thought it was really good . I've seen the remake on TV about a million times ( I haven't actually sat through it each time ) and after viewing it maybe two or three times altogether , I have to say I don't see the " point " ( pun intended ) . There's no need to remake the original . Especially considering it was so successful overseas and a fairly recent release . The remake stars Bridget Fonda as a woman who is recruited to be an assassin . Gabriel Byrne is her recruiter . There's no arguing that they have a pretty good cast - Fonda and Byrne are both good actors - but the sole fact remains that a remake was unnecessary , and the strains of the screenplay show . It comes across as an un-daring , half-baked project that is simultaneously redundant and boring . Catch it on cable ; don't spend your money .
I love Steve Martin , I don't love this movie . . .	Basically a one-joke movie adaptation on yet another classic television show . Some scenes reminiscent of Martin's " Roxanne , " but basically only one or two scattered jokes throughout . After this film tanked at the box office in 1996 , Steve Martin said that he didn't feel funny anymore and stopped movies for a while and wrote " Picasso at the Lapign Agile . " Luckily , he is back in form now . stars - John Ulmer
Disappointing and overrated .	Loads of people are going to disagree with me and press the " unhelpful " button on this review , but I don't care . I saw " L . A . Confidential " back when it was released , after all the hype , and was severely disappointed . It recently came on television again and I thought to myself that maybe - - hopefully - - I'd like it better now and see whatever it was that I missed before . Unfortunately , my opinion remains the same . " L . A . Confidential " is a poor-man's " Chinatown , " complete with all the " homages " and such to the genre . . . The cast is top-notch and make the film worth seeing once : Guy Pearce , Danny DeVito , Kim Basinger and Kevin Spacey ( delivering the best performance in the film ) . There's also Russell Crowe , but we don't like him , because he's a jerk and he can't act . Just kidding . But seriously , I don't think he can act . " L . A . Confidential " is an OK movie but due to all the hype surrounding its release I was very disappointed . A few years ago it was # 16 on the IMDb Top 250 and now it's # 60 and steadily declining every few months . . . that says something , hopefully .
Politically correct , racist and dumb .	I used to really like " The Patriot . " Unfortunately , I watched it again recently and found myself quite disappointed . It's too silly , really . The ending , for example , is a hoot ( somehow I had overlooked it countless times before ) . The Brits are all these vicious , stupid dogs and the Americans are smarter , better , stronger , and cooler . It's extremely politically correct , so much so that it's almost laughable . In one corner there's the stereotypical black freedom fighter . In the other , the Evil Brit . And in yet another corner , the Man Who's Lost His Wife and Doesn't Want to Fight Because He's a Father and Has Learned to Value Human Life Despite His Violent Past ( similar characters exist in every movie ever made , just about ) . There's an exchange of dialogue that goes like this , during a fight : ( Before fighting the boss on level eight - err , I mean the British ) : White Racist : You're a free man , now . Black Man : I'm here on my own accord , now . White Racist : I am honored to be fighting alongside you . Truly honored . Then the black man smiles warmly . It needn't be pointed out that this is awful stuff , but just for the sake of pointing it out to you : This is awful stuff , folks . Later , during a retreat , Mel Gibson's character grabs the American flag , hauls it forward , yells " No retreat ! " and waves it in the air . The black man looks on fondly . The point of all this is clear but it's way too heavy-handed and stupid . It's subtlety on the level of that scene in " Cool Hand Luke " ( the only problem I have with the movie ) where Paul Newman complains he just sees a lot of guys laying down rules . The exposition is unnecessary , and in both cases it ruins the flow of the scene . So , to summarize : The movie is politically correct ( it was originally going to be based on the Swamp Fox but they weren't allowed to show a hero mistreating his slaves , as the Swamp Fox did ) and racist . It's anti-British , which I don't really have a problem with because every movie needs a villain , but it's a bit too much . A couple years ago I considered this one of the best war films of all-time . Now , I see a pop culture reworking of a historical period , transformed by the director of " Godzilla " and " The Day After Tomorrow " into a silly , poorly-acted ( apart from Gibson , who I'll always enjoy in film ) , stereotypical jumble of the biggest clichés in the book .
The whole Sandler routine starts to get old ( er )	I like " Happy Gilmore . " It's Sandler's best comedy . " Billy Madison " is pretty lame , " Big Daddy " is amusing , " Little Nicky " is a terrible mess and " Mr . Deeds " ( a remake of the Jimmy Stewart film ) is proof that you should let a sleeping dog lie - this is like watching " Big Daddy " all over again ! It's directed the same way , musically scored the same way , and even the general sense of humor is exactly the same ! Take Longfellow Deeds ( Adam Sandler ) and replace him with Sonny from " Big Daddy " and you wouldn't know the difference . The problem is it just isn't very funny or amusing . Winona Ryder falling in love with Sandler ? Talk about no chemistry or believability . It's totally forced . The whole villainous scheme to rob Longfellow of his inheritance never really works and comes across as forced , also . If you're a huge Sandler fan , you may feel you " need " to see or own this to complete the collection - but most die-hard Sandlerites I've talked to think this is one of his worst films and it's easy to see why . It's just lame , not very funny and rather dull .
Jolie does bring the character to life , but the screenplay's just dull !	While Angelina Jolie does bring the Lara Croft Tomb Raider character to life on the big screen , unfortunately the script and dialogue is just boring . The overall effects are done nicely . In one scene there is a fight involving a bunji harness in Croft's mansion where Jolie swings around doing little martial arts moves , kicking bad guys , and zipping around on the cord . I liked this scene because it was very original . But then there're other scenes and monologue that are just out of place . The end pretty much messed up the rest of what I DID enjoy out of this film . It was utterly ridiculous , not in the ways of " she could never do that " but more of a really dumb plot ending . Perhaps the sequel will be better than this . I sure hope so . It seems most of the time the director of this film was too focused on getting teen males to enjoy the film by zooming and / or focusing on Angie's tight , short clothes , and ahem " big " chest ( how else to put it-it's true ) rather than giving the audience an interesting storyline . Tomb Raider is worth viewing once , just for the fact there're some scenes very interesting and original , but just fast forward the last 30 , dull and ridiculous minutes . stars -
The first hour is great , the second hour . . . isn't .	Low-budget horror movies were once original back when Sam Raimi and Tobe Hooper actually made good films out of them , but nowadays it's exactly the opposite . Cheap movies are just as bad as expensive ones , if not more so , and they've become the very thing they shouldn't be : boring . " Dog Soldiers " is a low-budget British werewolf movie hybrid ? it mixes elements of war with sci-fi , horror , comedy and drama . It's a commendable effort . The first hour is a blast . But the second hour is a mess ? and not in a good way , either . Plot holes become more abundant than donuts at a police station and characters transform into the all-too-typical cardboard cutouts of cinema , spewing the same stupid garbage we hear from every horror movie released today . " I'll be back ! " and two seconds later they're dead , or the " We've got to stick together and be more than men " bull delivered by a soldier to his fellow comrades in order to boost their morale . It is so annoying . Or how about the tough-but-naïve character we're supposed to like , who's kept around until the end , when he finally dies an honorable death ? Yawn . The plot : A pack of British soldiers ( Sean Pertwee , Kevin McKidd , Liam Cunningham and Darren Morfitt ) are on a routine training mission in the Scottish high lands when they inadvertently stumble across a pack of bloodthirsty werewolves . After their team is ambushed and their Sergeant left dying , they take refuge in a nearby deserted farmhouse . But the wolves are just warming up for dessert . As I mentioned above , the first hour is superb . The camera work was a bit too fast , but worked well when building suspense and paranoia . The acting was fairly good , the dialogue even better . Like " Predator , " it builds itself up as a war film , and then turns into a monster movie . Unlike " Predator , " however , " Dog Soldiers " becomes silly , stupid and boring . It relentlessly rips off every movie in sight ? also including " Evil Dead , " " Aliens , " " Platoon , " " Blair Witch Project , " " The Thing " ? and to be fair , it does try to deliver a lot of fun ; the problem is that the movie is incredibly insulting and childish . Of course , no movie about werewolves is going to attempt to explain itself seriously ( or let's just hope it won't ) ? and " Dog Soldiers " doesn't . But there's a fine line between suspension of disbelief and feeling cheated ? it crosses the line . The ending is cheap , tacky and dissatisfying . I heard they're making a sequel , subtitled " Fresh Meat . " Let's hope it's fresh material this time around .
A terrible remake / re-imagining of the original that is boring , silly and over-the-top	Apparently Tim Burton was very excited about making this film , but ended up being incredibly disappointed with the outcome . The film itself was a dud , and got a ruthless beating from critics and the general public , despite making a profit in theaters . The problem is that they tried to " re-imagine " the original much in the same way that " Batman Begins " was a restart of the Batman franchise - but " Begins " did it well , and " Planet of the Apes " was not as skillful . Tim Burton has some die-hard cult fans on this site who are quick to blame studio interference , but I think the real problem is that Burton was given too much free roam . Armed with a $100 , 000 , 000 budget and a very mainstream , action-oriented picture - something he had only ever ventured upon with " Batman " more than a decade prior - he just couldn't get a grip on any aspect of the feature . It's a very loose , jumbled , unfocused picture - full of absurdity , stupidity and downright hammy acting . Mark Wahlberg plays the hero , an astronaut who is transported through a black hole to another galaxy where apes rule the world and humans are their slaves . Leading a revolt against the apes , he fights for the rights of humanity - becoming a Jesus Christ figure for all the other humans . . . a " savior . " The ending throws in an illogical and pointless twist that is just there for the sake of shocking people . It undermines the rest of the film and makes you kind of go , " So what was the point of everything that happened before this ? " Burton's worst film , and one of the more disappointing films I've seen .
Really pathetic special effects ; an overall silly and forgettable film	It's the late 1880s and Victor Barbicane ( Joseph Cotton ) has invented a new power source called " Power X . " He realizes it has the potential to boost a rocket into outer space ( or , more specifically , to the moon ) . After some initial flubs he manages to embark on his journey along with his assistant ( Don Dubbins ) , semi-villain Stuyvesant Nicholl ( George Sanders ) , and Nicholl's daughter Virginia ( Debra Pagent ) . Nicholl thinks that Victor's Power X is sacrilege and sabotages their entire journey - - will they be able to get back to earth ? This was presented on TCM as the least successful adaptation of Welles ' material and it shows in every frame . The special effects are really pathetic - even for a 1958 film - and the acting is subpar . The great character actor Joseph Cotten looks utterly bored and disgusted at the fact that he's even remotely close to starring in this film - he basically just stumbles and mumbles through the entire project , and I truly felt sorry for him after seeing such superior films as " Citizen Kane , " " Shadow of a Doubt , " " The Magnificent Andersons " and of course " The Third Man . " If you want to laugh , this is a good choice . If you're looking for something worthwhile ( at least in terms of artistic merit ) - look elsewhere !
Lame .	So this insecure Indian guy moves to the US in the hopes of following the American Dream like his relative . He messes up and lands a role , accidentally , in this low-grade porn flick with a beautiful girl , played by Heather Graham . And at first he doesn't want to " perform , " but when he does , it's really good , and he becomes the Sex Guru - " he talks , women listen . " And if you aren't already bored by the plot description , be prepared - the film is about ten times more boring . I don't think I laughed once . It's a really lame , really predictable " comedy " that isn't even entertaining . Not all comedies have to be har-har funny , but they should at least amuse the viewer . I wasn't amused . Daisy von Scherler Mayer directed it . With a name like that , you know it's going to be a bad movie . ( Just joking . ) But honestly , the people in charge of this were off their nut . I'm most surprised that Graham and Marisa Tomei took roles in the film - they could both do much better . And for Graham , it's just a sad reminder she hasn't made anything worthwhile since her last porn-themed film , " Boogie Nights , " the best of the best of the porno-dramas .
Very disappointing .	Robert Altman is one of my favorite directors of all time and his " Player " ( 1992 ) starring Tim Robbins is a great dark satire of the film industry . He's a great genre-swapper and so I expected quite a bit from " Gosford Park , " which I pictured as an Agatha Christie-style period piece . The movie stars Weese Ritherspoon's husband , Ryan Phillipe , from " Cruel Intentions . " That should say something about its acting right off the bat - - mediocre , to say the least . There are a few fine performances , but the bad ones drag them all down . The " mystery " elements of the story are very poor . Instead of building up an atmospheric thriller Altman examines the characters like he's doing " Nashville Redux " or something - - no offense but I didn't go see this to see a realistic depiction of different classes of society in a mansion , I went to go see a murder mystery as was promised on the ads and in that respect I was sorely disappointed . Overall I'd have to say this is one of Altman's weakest and most pretentious films - - it's a huge disappointment and a rather banal example of Altman's typically reliable directorial style . Non-fans of Altman might like it , but I suspect most of his die-hard followers will find it a dubious title in his resume .
Typical Nielson	This James Bond spoof never accomplishes much and resorts to typical Leslie Nielson fare , with half-hearted laughs , and not enough to name the film " great , " just like " Wrongfully Accused " and " Dracula : Dead and Loving It . " Don't get me wrong , the film isn't awful by any account - it just isn't good enough to see twice . A " Naked Gun " it is not . stars - very average slapstick . John Ulmer
A very average television show in the vein of " Full House "	Joey , Matt and Andy are three brothers living in Philly in a building above a car garage where they work . The garage used to be owned by their father , but he has recently passed away , leaving the three boys ( one an adult , one a high-schooler and a middle-schooler ) to live with their mother . Every episode of the show would somehow involve a moment where the oldest brother gets in a tizzy and throws a fit , then later apologizes and acknowledges that he still is upset about his father's death . This tension resurfaces in every episode - and gets really old . Obviously his father's death is the foundation of the plot for the show , but that doesn't mean the entire narrative needs to somehow center around this . The supporting cast is rather weak - the other two Lawrence brothers ( they're all brothers in real life ) decrease in acting ability by age , the youngest becoming nothing more than the equivalent of a Mary-Kate / Ashley Olsen " cute " gimmick , and there is of course the comedic role given to a troublesome co-worker at the garage - an overweight slob named Lloyd who eats . A lot . Har , har . Overall it's not surprising to see this was canceled after two years - the characters weren't interesting enough to sustain a lengthy run , and the producers never really expanded the story lines enough . Every time you tune in you're basically getting a variation upon the same concept , and in spite of poor acting and lousy scriptwriting this sealed " Brotherly Love's " fate .
Not as awful as I thought it would be , but still pretty bad !	Nick Persons ( Ice Cube ) is a loveless bachelor who's looking for the right woman . When he finally finds her , it's love at first sight - but then he finds out she's a single mom with two kids at home . In order to prove to her that he can be a good father , Nick agrees to drive them cross-country on a road trip - without their mother . However , the kids take an immediate disliking to Nick and plan to sabotage the entire trip . This movie's success surprised me when it first came out , because it competed against the remake of " Assault on Precinct 13 " - and came out on top at the box office . I never expected a family film to beat a remake of a classic action film starring big ( ger ) names like Laurence Fishburne , Ethan Hawke , John Leguizamo and Gabriel Byrne . Nevertheless this Ice Cube " comedy " ( which looked suspiciously like the new-age version of National Lampoon's " Vacation " ) triumphed . The problem is , even as a kid's movie it's not very good . For starters the acting is pretty bad and most of the gags are lame , way too over-the-top , and simply quite unfunny . A lot of the stuff just doesn't work - like Cube's fight with the rabid deer . Or the bit where the kids lock themselves inside his Pimp Mobile and drive around the parking lot of a gas station with Ice Cube on the hood of the vehicle . When I grew up you got your butt beat for even showing disrespect towards adults . The kids in this film are evil little demons who get away with destroying a mega-expensive car and implying that Ice Cube has abducted them against their will to a passing motorist . If I had been Nick Persons in this film , I would have beat them senseless . ( Just joking . But honestly , you feel like doing something to them throughout the movie . ) Most unfortunate of all , the talented and extremely hilarious Tracy Morgan ( of " Saturday Night Live " fame ) is wasted as the voice of a . . . dashboard bobble doll ? ! The ending is really typical of this sort of film - a relationship develops amidst the chaos , blah blah blah , and Everyone Lives Happily Ever After . This isn't as awful as I expected ( it's not on par with " Son of the Mask " anyway ) but it's still a pretty bad film that is insulting on quite a few levels - and at the same time it's so outrageous and twisted and uneasy that I don't even think children would get much fun out of it . I watched it with two children and neither of them liked it . My advice ? Stick with the " Vacation " movies ( and if you have a family , view the edited TV versions if you don't like the swearing and sexual innuendo / nudity ) . " Are We There Yet ? " comes across as a pale imitator , a semi-remake that isn't nearly as funny , original , heartwarming or realistic . Part of the fun of the " Vacation " movies is that the events bore similarities to your own travel experiences-gone-awry as a child - " Are We There Yet ? " is so far-fetched it's not even enjoyable .
Watchable , but it could have been " great . "	The year is 1892 and Irish immigrants Joseph Donnelly ( Tom Cruise ) and Shannon ( Nicole Kidman ) have arrived at a shipping port in Boston , greeted by enticing faces who offer them jobs and safety . . . for a price . Joseph has used Shannon to help cross the Atlantic ; there's a long prologue in which their characters are set up . Essentially they become a romantic couple as time progresses , even though they're very different from each other - Joseph being from a poor upbringing and Shannon from a prosperous one . Joseph gets a job as a boxer for the local Irish ghetto warden boss , while Shannon becomes a dancer / stripper at one of the warden's bars . The movie was directed by Ron Howard and was one of those post-marriage Cruise / Kidman movies . It got some hype when it came out , and then it died . Props must be given - direction is good and the sets are realistic . It really evokes the late 19th century and most of the stuff seems genuine ( reminded me a bit of " Gangs of New York " to be honest ) . However , the acting is atrocious . Cruise can't sport a consistent Irish accent for the life of him . Kidman is okay but I've seen her give far more convincing performances . Overall this love story set in immigration America had potential and is pretty to look at , but the tale is a bit alienating due to the poor performances from the lead actors .
Not very insightful , although the James Woods interview is good	An excerpt of this documentary based on Sergio Leone's life is included on the two-disc " Once Upon a Time in America " Director's Cut DVD . Unfortunately it seems very amateur , the interviews are poorly edited , repetitive and contain little insight ; and worst of all , the people interviewed themselves had little to do with the film's production . Perhaps the most interesting story is the one which one of the film's co-writers tells about Leone's peculiar requests in regards to scriptwriting methods . I also enjoyed the James Woods interview segment , in which he explains how a critic that called " America " the worst film of 1984 later saw the director's cut version and named it the best movie of the entire decade . Overall , there are some good bits like these , but a lot of the documentary could have been cut down / edited and more interesting anecdotes and interviewees could have been selected .
It's been done before - and much better	Some guy's girl gets kidnapped and he's given orders by the thief ( Christopher Walken ) to kill a politician in a certain amount of time , or else . Sound clever ? No ? Well , how about if the film's length is as long / short as the time our hero has to kill the politician ? I'm sure this looked good on paper and in pitches but it's been done before ( " real-time cinema " ) and this story isn't very good . It has potential but goes nowhere - basically it's Johnny Depp wandering around like a cry-baby for 90 minutes trying to make up his mind : kill or lose his daughter . ClichÃ©s are all here too : the kind black man who helps him out , the cute naive daughter , the evil villain who seems to do whatever he wants without getting caught , the female co-villain , etc . , etc . Overall this isn't really worth 90 minutes and the same thing could have been done in five minutes - as a short this might have been really good but at a full-length running time it's just as long for us as it is for Depp's character .
Nicholson is fun , the movie is just so-so	" The Witches of Eastwick " is about three women in a town called Eastwick and how Satan visits them and alters their sex lives . It's kind of a weird movie . Actually , come to think of it , really weird . But when the women include Michelle Pfeiffer and Cher and the devil is Jack Nicholson himself , you know you're at least in for something moderately entertaining - if not particularly special . And that's basically what " The Witches of Eastwick " is . . . moderately entertaining fluff . Women will probably get more of a kick out of it than men because of its sexual awakening jokes and everything . Men will get a kick out of Nicholson hamming it up ( almost as much as Pacino would a decade later in " The Devil's Advocate " ) . If you like the actors , give it a go . Otherwise , stay far away .
Another Forgettable " Comedy " . . .	" Blue Streak " stars Martin Lawrence as a thief , who for some complicated reasons ( complicated for him - not for the film viewers ! ) must disguise himself as a police officer and infiltrate police headquarters . With an uninspired premise , decent acting talent , and a bad script , " Blue Streak " offers few laughs , and a predictably stupid finale . " Blue Streak " is one to be missed . stars-John Ulmer
Utter trash	I couldn't believe just how trashy this film is . To be fair the cinematography is good and it has a cool blue-ish tint that gives it a visceral edge - - but that's about it . The acting is bad . Leo DiCaprio is a great actor when he's given a chance ( What's Eating Gilbert Grape , The Aviator , Catch Me If You Can ) but here he's really just doing the whole boy-toy routine - - targeting the younger crowds of females rather than really trying to get into character . The plot isn't the greatest and the metaphors aren't deep - - the movie seems rather pretentious at times and tries to be heavier and more meaningful than it actually is . Of interesting note is that Danny Boyle ( director of " Trainspotting " ) had a falling-out with star Ewan McGregor over this . McGregor was upset he wasn't cast in the film , and now refuses to film the sequel to " Trainspotting , " which is named " Porno . " Considering that " The Beach " is quite easily one of Danny Boyle's worst films and one of the most disappointing pictures of the last decade . . . why the fuss , Ewan ? Be happy you didn't get cast in this stinker .
Another Miserable Retread . . .	" That's it , nobody calls me Ed McMahon ! " - Emilio Estevez saying the funniest line from a rather dry sequel " Another Stakeout " was six years in the waiting . After the first film , " Stakeout , " made a huge splash at the box office in 1987 ( the same year another cop-buddy film came out - - can you guess which one ? ) , everyone anticipated an unnecessary - - but perhaps funny - - sequel that would inevitably result after box office earnings were tallied up by film executives in an office somewhere . Alas , the six years passed , and we got . . . this mess ? Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez reprise their roles as stakeout cops who get paired with a new partner in this watered-down sequel . The new partner is played by Rosie O'Donnell , who is so startlingly unfunny in this it almost makes you involuntarily switch off the television as soon as you see her chubby face smiling at you . The story starts with a bang - - literally - - as a trial witness being protected by the CIA is unsuccessfully assassinated - - and by that I mean : They die , she lives . What a surprise . ( This is the type of scene where the villain is able to blow up a house but the witness just happens to be taking a stroll outside as it happens - - or something like that - - preventing her from dying along with the other agents who were previously protecting her . This type of thing was spoofed greatly in the truly underrated " Last Action Hero . " It's not a joke in " Another Stakeout . " ) Unfortunately for the United States , the trial witness never returns - - she runs away and doesn't let anyone know where she is . Afraid she may be in danger , afraid to lose a star witness , and believing that she might try to contact old friends , the gruff chief of police assigns the unlucky trio of Dreyfuss , Estevez and Donnell to watch the her old pals to see if she turns up . She eventually does , of course , but first we get some painfully unfunny buddy-buddy moments between Dreyfuss and Estevez and O'Donnell . She brings a bunch of clothing and a dog with her . They don't like it . Har-har . This was used a bit better in " Spaceballs , " in which Princess Vespa brought along that entire luggage through the desert ( remember ? ) . This is just a copy of that scene , minus the punch line . Estevez also shaves his mustache , which is supposed to be a type of sacred moment and is referenced at least ten times throughout the film ( he goes to stroke his mustache , he complains about chopping it off , Dreyfuss complains about it , etc . ) . But for heaven's sake , he's only been in one film so far - - we've only seen the mustache once - - so a better thing to do would have been this : make a few more sequels and , when the last entry comes , have him shave it off . By then the audience realizes that his mustache is part of him , and that losing it is like losing part of his soul . But I'm glad they didn't make any more than one sequel . One of the things that kept the " Lethal Weapon " franchise going was the fresh ideas , fresh buddies , and fresh scripts . ( Great actors never hurt an action comedy , either . ) The " Stakeout " franchise - - which didn't even last long enough to spawn more than one sequel - - tries to copy this formula but isn't sure how . The introduction of Joe Pesci in " Lethal Weapon 2 " was great because he thereby became the Third Stooge , whereas O'Donnell's entry into the series is nothing but a humiliating reminder that talk show hosts can't always act in front of a camera and maintain the same type of humor they may ( or may not ) exhibit on their ( awful ) TV " talk show . " ( Which is , by the way , consumed of entirely staged so-called " interviews . " ) And whereas Pesci , as Leo Getz , added a type of silly vibe to the " LW " series , O'Donnell just seems like a carbon copy clone of Estevez from the first " Stakeout . " Dreyfuss didn't like him at first , and - - guess what - - they suddenly became best buds . The same thing happens in the sequel , much to the audience's chagrin . Of course , " Lethal Weapon " and its sequels were never more than a few years apart ( the first coming out in 1989 , two years after the original ) . But " Stakeout " had six years to make a respectable sequel , and it fails . It fails the same way that many prolonged sequels do . But , for once , it's not because the audience has forgotten the original film - - it's because the audience is fed up with the same routine . The film was directed by John Badham , which is surprising , since he's a talented director ( " Saturday Night Fever , " " The Hard Way , " " Stakeout " ) . Here he jumps through all the hoops , turning his own series into a pale retread of the original - - only watered down : minus the violence , language , nudity , and humor . I'm not saying a movie has to be R to be funny . But if you've got a sequel to an R-rated movie like " Stakeout " and you decide to turn its sequel into a cutesy-tutesy children's entertainment program , you'd better advise the audience before they sit down expecting something funny and fresh . What a disappointment . stars . - John Ulmer
Not particularly very good	A magazine reporter named John Kelso ( John Cusack ) decides to do a story on a Christmas party hosted by an infamous eccentric named Jim Williams ( Kevin Spacey ) in Savannah . John enjoys the part but feels taken aback and apprehensive when he meets Jim's abusive lover , Billy . Billy winds up dead , and Kelso stays in Savannah to cover the trial . He soon encounters a huge variety of oddballs such as a spiritualist , an old man who threatens to poison the town's water supply , and a drag queen comedienne . Any film should be given a chance , and I was willing to do so for " Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil , " despite having heard rather negative things about it in advancement . Unfortunately , I was not impressed . Clint Eastwood has been , of recent , a very reliable director - but he wasn't always , and this is more proof of that . Is it ambitious ? Yes , very much so . TOO much so . It tries to hard to be mysterious , and ultimately it comes across as silly , superfluous and pretentious . Good performances , though . Especially by Spacey and Cusack . Shame about the rest of it .
Alan J . Pakula's last film is incredibly disappointing . . .	This is a very mediocre movie , and a bad sign-off for Alan J . Pakula ( who died a year later in 1998 from a car crash ) . Listen to Brad Pitt's awful accent for a few moments and you'll get a clear idea that this film is going nowhere . It caused some controversy on release because of its simplified view of the IRA / Britain terrorism and some people ( particularly Europeans I suppose ) took offense to the fact that Brad Pitt's character is given a " motive " for what he does . . . and the film seems to sympathy with him . Brad Pitt hated the film and Harrison Ford and him battled on set over who would become the focus of the film itself ( apparently Pitt became upset because the script was re-written and his character was given less screen time ) . I only recommend it to people who haven't seen many movies . Why ? Because then the recycled dialogue , characters , plot , and performances may seem fresh . But as it stands , " The Devil's Own " is a poor example of mediocre film-making . Or is that a " good " example of mediocre film-making ? Whatever it is , the film is not anything special , and certainly not anything that hasn't been done before .
What went wrong ?	A few years ago , when it was cool to hate " Titanic , " I picked mercilessly on Leonardo DiCaprio ( as all males at the time did ) . I criticized his performances in every film I saw , mainly " Titanic . " Even though I liked the film , if you were a guy and admitted to enjoying it , you were automatically labeled gay . Over the years I found new respect for DiCaprio as an actor . After I saw him in " Catch Me If You Can " I realized he had a great deal of natural talent and was striving to abandon his " pretty boy " roots . Then I saw " Gangs of New York " and felt he was strangely miscast . Going back to " This Boy's Life , " we catch an early glimpse of DiCaprio and one of his finest performances to date . He is totally convincing in this film , set in the 1950s , based on a true story . Unfortunately the rest of the movie is not so lucky . The typically reliable Robert De Niro delivers one of his worst performances ever as a crazy kook from Seattle named Dwight , who falls for Toby's ( DiCaprio ) mother , Caroline , played by Ellen Barkin . I applaud De Niro's recent ventures into comedy and disagree with the critics who claim he has " sold out . " But his performance in " This Boy's Life " is simply unacceptable . It starts out fine enough , and his Seattle accent is impressive . But as the film progresses , he turns into a strange comical character ; he is supposed to be scary and intimidating , but he is neither . I feel the greatest flaw of this film centers around De Niro's character and performance . First of all , Toby ( Leo ) acts like a jerk . We don't find much sympathy for him . When he falls into the hands of Dwight , we eventually feel a bit of sympathy , but because Dwight never seems very cruel or scary , it's hard even then . There have been some very good child abuse movies made in the past . " Radio Flyer " was not a great movie by any means , but by portraying child abuse through the eyes of a child and portraying the guilty as a truly cruel human being , it succeeded and made us feel for the boys . " This Boy's Life " doesn't work because it's a bit too sarcastic , knowing and self-assured . De Niro is not scary . In fact , many times I agreed with his character . He rarely abused Toby ( in the film , anyway ) and at many times , even though he was drunk , offered good advice . And the scenes such as the one in which he steals Toby's boy scout outfit aren't upsetting . They're humorous . It's hard to find fear and sympathy for a boy when we're laughing at his plights . The ending was the icing on the cake as far as I'm concerned . Throughout De Niro had managed to retain some level of dignity and realism , but at the end he just let loose and turned into a screaming , howling , crybaby of a man : obsessive , paranoid and crazy . And he's still not scary , because he's so pathetic that we're laughing at him . And by then , the accent has become so corny , and the dialogue and happy-face gestures so hysterical , that the film totally negates whatever its point was and becomes a half-hearted bittersweet comedy with a great performance by Leonardo DiCaprio and unimpressive elements elsewhere . Overall , " This Boy's Life " is a mixed bag of a film that doesn't know whether to find sympathy for Tobias Wolff or humor in his situations . If you're a fan of the actors , give it a go ; otherwise , I recommend " Radio Flyer . "
Charlize Theron acting better than Al Pacino ? I never thought I'd see the day . . .	' The Devil's Advocate ' works as neither a supernatural thriller nor a courtroom drama ? instead it relies heavily upon excessive content and performances , silly over-the-top concepts and a genuinely unpleasing conclusion , all of which stain an otherwise fairy enjoyable modern-day parable . The movie rambles on far too long about nothing in particular , always thinking it's much cleverer than it actually is . For example , the identity of a mysterious tycoon in New York City , named John Milton ( hint-hint ) , isn't revealed until about of the way through the film ? despite the fact that the title of the movie , and all the events therein leading up to this ' revelation , ' basically give away the ' secret ' from the start . So why in the world didn't anyone realize this during production ? Did anyone stop and say , ' I wonder if people will be smart enough to guess who he really is before we expect them to ? ? ' If you don't want to know who Milton is , don't read any further . However , if you have an IQ past that of the guy from Sling Blade , you'll probably already realize that John Milton ( played by Al Pacino ) is the Devil . Lucifer . Satan . ' I have so many names , ' he says to hotshot lawyer Keanu Reeves . The story is routine at best ? Milton hires the Aspiring Young Lawyer from Hicksville , U . S . A . to travel to the Big Apple and take on Important Cases . Soon the Lawyer's Wife ( Charlize Theron ) turns into the Crazy Character That No One Believes , because she thinks Milton is the devil , and they all laugh at her , and her husband laughs at her . Hmm ? maybe everyone on set was consuming laughing gas ? this would explain why the film rarely makes sense and Theron turns in the best performance in a film starring ? Al Pacino ? It's almost sad to see him resorting to more yelling and screaming and over-the-top ranting ? Pacino's big speech about God has potential , but he says it all so annoyingly that it begins to grate on the nerves . I don't expect Pacino to play Satan as a calm everyman , but at least he could try and make a consistent character out of the role ? instead of showing up on set , consuming laughing gas and acting like an idiot . ( Forgive me , because I actually am an enormous fan of Pacino's work ? but he simply stinks here , and there's no excuse for his poor performance . ) ' The Devil's Advocate ' bears most relation to the supernatural film-noir hybrid , ' Angel Heart , ' released a decade prior . That film co-starred Robert De Niro , who handled the role of Satan much better than Pacino ? mainly because although they both acted rather flamboyantly , De Niro had better control . Ever since ' Scent of a Woman ' in 1992 , Pacino's over-acting has increased to a point of near-nausea ? is this the same guy who so expertly played Michael Corleone and Tony Montana ? " The Panic in Needle Park " had better acting - - and that was his first major movie ! If you can put up with a movie that is over-the-top and excessive and puts the work of Brian DePalma to shame , then maybe you'll be able to stand'The Devil's Advocate . ' If you can put up with a movie that wastes the talents of its main performers and leads nowhere but into an unsatisfying apocalyptic massacre of an ending , you might even enjoy this . But if you can put up with a movie that proposes Keanu Reeves is a genius lawyer who's ' never lost a single case , ' you deserve to die a very painful death . Please go far away and never return . Just kidding . But seriously ? Keanu Reeves ? Tom Green has a better chance ?
Ernest Saves Ernest's Career	" Ernest Saves Christmas " is one of the films in the seemingly endless line of " Ernest " flicks with Jim Varney . I've had the ( un ) - pleasurable experience of sitting through " Ernest Goes to Camp , " " Ernest Scared Stupid , " " Ernest Saves Christmas , " and perhaps some others that I don't remember . ( There are about one hundred " Ernest " films , aren't there ? ) In this film , Ernest has to save Santa Claus by delivering toys and searching for a successor ( ? ) . I haven't seen this film for about three years , so I'm a bit rusty on the plot . One thing the " Ernest " films do have is a good sense of unrealistic playfulness . Its audience is children , and Jim Varney seems to play right to this . Varney ( who passed away in 2001 due to a long fight with cancer ) was a good comedian . He didn't spin crude gags . He seemed to stick to childrens ' films ( " Toy Story , " " Atlantis " - - his last film ) , and when he did try an adult film once it turned out to be one of the worst comedies ever . ( It's called " Snow Academy " - - no , it's not a sequel to " Police Academy . " ) I actually found myself ( despite the film being utterly ridiculous and stupid in any and every way ) enjoying " Ernest Saves Christmas , " because while it is a bit odd , it targets the jokes to its audience well , and I think adults can enjoy the films just because they are reminiscent of childhood . Unfortunately , I just can't muster up enough to give this movie a high rating . Instead , I'll give it two and a half stars ( average ) and tell you that if you have kids , you should definitely get them to watch the " Ernest " films . If you don't , I'd recommend you stay away from the films . ( Unless , that is , if you like childrens ' films . ) stars - John Ulmer
Didn't work for me	Seems as though it were crafted by a real geek . Sorry , Quentin . TRUE ROMANCE ( 1993 ) out of Much of Tony Scott's " True Romance " seems as though it were crafted by a real geek . The film's hero , Clarence , is a quintessential loser - - every year on his birthday he goes to see a movie and all 364 other days are spent working at a comic book store . Mere coincidence , then , that its writer is Quentin Tarantino ? ( A man who used to work as a video store clerk and watch " three to four movies a day " before hitting the big time as a director with 1992's " Reservoir Dogs . " ) Most of " True Romance " doesn't seem very real at all . It's a harsh movie , but that doesn't bother me at all . It's when the character - - a self-confessed geek - - picks up a gun and goes on a killing spree at a brothel in order to free his call girl wife that the film seems to exaggerate just a bit . ( Travis Bickle ? Yes . A geeky nerd ? No . ) It seems like the sort of dream that Quentin Tarantino may have had years ago . In the real world , this all just seems a bit odd . But the characters aren't living in our world . They're in Quentin's . I originally read the script for " True Romance " and thought it was splendid - - but soon found that Tony Scott's direction betrayed the darkness of the screenplay , creating a sort of half-good / half-bad movie that leaves the audience wanting more . Sure , " True Romance " has its good parts , but the people who tell you it's the best film ever are part of the " True Romance " cult . It's nothing more than a good movie with a fine script and bad direction . Scott ( " Top Gun " ) has made some fine movies , but in terms of actual direction , this is one of his lesser ones . Why ? Well , for starters , the story is rather dark and grimy and bleak . Scott forces his audience into liking these characters so much that he betrays the grim tone for a happy look . The problem ? Well , the characters are rather corrupt and the story is rather dark and the outcome is potentially unmerited . Scott changed the ending to the film , making it happier , which Quentin Tarantino admits works for the story . But , as he says on the DVD commentary , had he filmed the movie , it would have been a lot different . And when Quentin says that , I think he means better . Don't blame the cast . These are top-notch actors in Oscar-worthy roles . But somehow , given their characteristics , they never come across as anything more than caricatures - - exaggerated molds of real people . Clarence is played by Christian Slater , and he meets and falls in love with Alabama ( Patricia Arquette ) , soon finding out she's a hooker . Their romance is something I would expect a soap opera writer to craft - - they meet , he falls for her , she falls for him ( hooker with a heart of gold ! ) , they sleep together ( in a scene reminiscent of that criticized love sequence from " Top Gun " ) , and he risks everything to free her . In less than twenty-four hours . Is something a bit odd here ? It's like a geek's wet dream . The supporting cast is to die for : Dennis Hopper , Gary Oldman , Val Kilmer , Christopher Walken , Michael Rapaport , James Gandolfini , Chris Penn , Tom Sizemore and Brad Pitt . They all do well in their roles , but seem to be boasted on the posters for promotional value . Hopper and Oldman have the most scenes , but die early on . Kilmer's face is never seen , and his body only appears in two sequences . Walken is in a single scene during the entire film , and Gandolfini is introduced ( and executed ) quite late into the movie . Bummer . It's basically the adventures of Clarence and Alabama . Nothing wrong with that , except that their story copies from everything in sight - - most notably , " Bonnie and Clyde . " To be fair , I understand what Quentin meant to do with his tale , and his original ending ( although depressing ) was much more suitable given the content of the movie . Quentin tried to add a dark streak to the clichéd romance-on-the-run genre , and Scott mistakenly made yet another happy-go-lucky ( although very violent ) road romance with two very simplistic , innocent , fake characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end . This is the stuff Charlie Kaufman hates . The whole way through the movie , I felt as though I were staring at comical shadows of potentially real people , waiting to break through their boundaries and convince us all that they are more than just clichés . This script was sold early on in Quentin's career so that he could film " Reservoir Dogs " with the income . He was reportedly never very happy with the outcome of " True Romance , " a film he had hoped to direct , and I don't blame him . From the very opening credits , I could tell this film was taking the wrong path given its source material . Maybe I shouldn't have read the script first . Maybe I had preconceptions . But it's still not a very well made movie . Blame Scott . How some people love this movie is still beyond me .
OK but too long and not as consistently funny as it probably should be . . .	I just saw Trading Places in its true entirety for the first time in many years . I have often caught various scenes on TV but never sat down and watched it since first viewing long ago . My opinion remains the same . I'm a big fan of Eddie Murphy , a pretty big fan of Dan Aykroyd , and in general ' 80s comedies and SNL - - but this one is a bit too long ( over 120 mins , uncut and unedited w / commercials on television ) - - it does have some very funny sequences and in particular the beginning is great but after that it sort of goes downhill . I thought the plot was incredibly weak and a bit too contrived - - Aykroyd's sudden complete loss of . . . everything was wholly unbelievable . I suppose it could be somewhat believable if not for the fact that Eddie Murphy suddenly replaces him and no one else seems to notice , or care . No business colleagues notice what is going on , etc . Then there's the scene where Aykroyd is walking by the restaurant and sees them all inside . He HAD to know what was going on when he saw Don Ameche with Eddie Murphy . He had to know they had set him up . Why didn't he just go into the restaurant and confront them ? Yeah , it's " just a comedy " or " just a movie " but there's a difference between suspension of disbelief ( which I don't mind at all - - I own Commando ! ) and being downright stupid . It's the little stuff like this I don't like . It starts out as a fairly realistic comedy but is waaay too silly and over-the-top at times . ( E . g . the guy getting put in with a gorilla - funny for a slapstick like Naked Gun , perhaps , but not for an otherwise realistic comedy . ) It would at least be fun if it weren't so long ! There are long gaps were nothing really happens . Many punchlines are clearly supposed to be funny , but aren't . There's an entire scene where Murphy is being given instructions about how Wall Street works and it goes on for about two minutes , before he says " You two sound like a coupl'a bookies to me . " It's supposed to be the punchline to the scene , but it takes so long getting to it , and frankly , it just isn't very funny . Eddie Murphy is usually good at creating likable characters , or at least funny ones , but his character here seemed to just disappear and reappear so often I never really felt as if I was getting to know him - - he seemed more like a co-star . Dan Aykroyd gives a much better performance in general ( or at least he has better material to work with in regards to his character ) . I prefer Beverly Hills Cop ( my favorite Eddie performance ) , The Blues Brothers , Coming to America ( with a clever reference to Trading Places ) and even the mediocre ( but entirely watchable and enjoyable ) Great Outdoors to this . " Trading Places " is OK but certainly not the classic many seem to think it is . It's too long with too many unfunny scenes , the plot is a bit too unbelievable to take seriously , the characters are all over the place and this all creates a cold distance - - it's hard for me to warm up to the movie , I guess .
Very oddball film	I'm not really sure what the point of this was but to be fair it is watchable in a mildly amusing sort of way . Kelsey Grammar is a down-on-his-luck alcoholic who dresses up as a children's TV cow ( a la Barney ) , and in the process begins a friendship with a young girl which he never expected . I rented this movie years ago and enjoyed it for what it was . It's not totally offensive ( although some of the innuendo and not-so-subtle sex jokes involving cows and teets might turn off parents from letting their kids watch it ) and Kelsey Grammar is always pretty funny . However in the long run I felt as though filmmaker Vadim Jean ( whom I've had the pleasure of speaking to and is a really nice guy ) didn't really know where to go with the script , it's a mix between adult drama and children's comedy and in that regard it's a mixed bag . Still worth watching if you get a chance , though .
Haven't I seen this before ?	Well-filmed , but little else , TIGERLAND is another routine Army-training flick about some Texas recruits getting ready to be shipped off to Vietnam in 1971 . Colin Farrell is the star , once again eager to show us all his vital organs during sex and shower scenes . What is it with this guy ? Overall the movie feels like Oliver Stone meets Martin Scorsese - - it's a rough little flick filmed on hand-held 16mm by Joel Schumacher ( " Batman and Robin " ) . Once again Schumacher shows that he's best at handling rough human dramas ( see " Falling Down " or " Phone Booth " ) - - unfortunately the material is so thin , and the actors and character so unlikable , that the movie is merely watchable and not very fascinating at all . And be warned - - for a 98-minute film there's a hefty amount of sex , nudity and language . If you're a queasy viewer you might be offended . However I wanted to point out that it does not contain the " F-word " 527 times , as the IMDb trivia page points out . So far NIL IN THE MOUTH holds the record for the most swearing - - ever . Over 400 uses of the word . . . err . . . you know . Anyway , a decent movie , well-made from a technical standpoint , but the story is so-so and the acting mediocre .
Too heartless	This movie plays like a made-for-TV , cheap biography . Meryl Streep gives a good performance but otherwise the film itself is rather disappointing . Mike Nichols , one of our most respected directors , leaves much to be desired in the directorial department . The overall impact of the movie is dull and unmoving . Streep plays Karen Silkwood , a woman who was ( it is believed ) killed by conspiring nuclear facility managers after she was going to make public a revelation regarding safety regulations . Her boyfriend in the film is played by the hapless Kurt Russell , given no depth and nothing of substance to work with - he comes across as a one-dimensional helping hand . The rest of the cast is simply mediocre ( Cher is obnoxious as usual ) and the film as a whole is vastly overrated . Although it is considered some kind of masterpiece of biographical film-making , I thought " Silkwood " was a pretty lame movie - notable only for its main performance and little else .
I've never understood the appeal of this film	I think Val Kilmer is a superb actor and Michael Apted has made some good films . Plus , Robert De Niro is credited as a producer here , which means he had at least some effect on its production . However , I've never really understood the appeal of " Thunderheart . " I first saw it on television in the ' 90s and recall my opinion back then : I thought it was poorly made and silly . My opinion hasn't changed much since the last time I saw it . Granted , Kilmer is a fine actor and does a good job here , but the movie itself just doesn't " click " together . Apparently this is based on actual occurrences on Sioux reservations in the 1970s , but I'm guessing there were a lot of creative liberties drawn . Kilmer plays an FBI agent investigating a murder , but due to his Sioux heritage he finds himself drawn into his ethnic background and the locals begin trusting him . I guess it works better for some people , but I just don't find this very appealing .
I've never been able to warm up to this	Minor SPOILERS ahead ! I've never been able to watch " Doc Hollywood " the entire way through . There is something about it that I find very hard to focus on . No , I don't have a low attention span . The story just doesn't interest me . It's very rare for me , especially , to ever just " not " watch a movie - I'm the guy who has an unwritten law that restricts me from exiting a theater during a really horrible movie . When there's something on TV , and I start watching it , I sit through it all . " Doc Hollywood " had me eager to get up and do something else the entire way through . I was constantly trying to find justifiable opportunities to leave the room . The set-up is refreshing . I love the opening sequence with Chesney Hawks ' " The One and Only . " After that it goes downhill . The ever-likable Michael J . Fox plays a great surgeon who decides to move to Hollywood and became a plastic surgeon . Mid-way he wrecks his convertible and finds himself in some hillbilly town in the middle of nowhere , with an assortment of odd - but likable - characters . We get the stereotypical love interest . . . the clichéd subplots . . . the routine everything . The entire film is so predictable that major plot turns could literally be written on a small piece of paper : Guy gets new job , finds himself is weird town with different people , falls in love with the hard-to-get country girl , messes up and breaks up , then gets back together with her , stays in the town , lives happily ever after . I used to live in the sort of town portrayed in " Doc Hollywood . " It's not very realistic , but that's OK , it's just a movie . Plus , Michael J . Fox is arguably one of the most likable actors of all time - always able to give his cute kid smile to warm up the audience . He's always an innocent , using this sort of continual character in projects such as " Casualties of War " ( where he was the good guy against a bunch of bad guys in Vietnam ) and , of course , " Back to the Future . " The movie has a pretty great cast , including co-stars such as Bridget Fonda and Woody Harrelson , but it never amounts to much of anything at all . It's as if a bunch of loose puzzle pieces were placed together to form a rather haphazard and routine story . The movie relies on oozing charm to entice its viewers . Normally , a film such as " Doc Hollywood " works its magic on me , but there's something about this particular film that has never , ever appealed to me , and unfortunately I just don't think it ever will .
Poor Paul Newman .	Theresa ( Robin Wright Penn ) is a single city mother slash reporter . Garret Blake ( Kevin Costner ) is a hick in a small seaside town who fixes boats and takes care of his pappy , Dodge ( Paul Newman ) . Garret wrote a letter to his ex-wife two years ago ( P . S . She's dead now , this makes us feel sorry for him because now he's been through misery and grief ; therefore , he's a great guy who deserves to have sex ) and Theresa finds the letter in a bottle along a beach . Okay , let's look at this film from a different perspective . . . on the surface it's a mildly entertaining romantic drama with sappy-eyed stars and a veteran powerhouse actor , right ? Wrong . It's a mediocre , regurgitated " romance " film that comes across more like the pilot for some crappy TV show that would get canceled after the first episode . Penn is okay but Costner is awful as usual ( delete his vocal performance and replace it with " blah blah blah blah blah " . . . trust me , you won't notice any difference ) , and Newman just looks plain embarrassed .
" Braveheart : Redux . " Give me the original any day . . .	I originally saw " Gladiator " ( 2000 ) in the year of its release , and after seeing the movie again last night , my position on the film has not changed . I did not like it three years ago , and I still do not like it . Back then I was not reviewing on a professional basis - - in fact , I had just started submitting comment / recommendation reviews on the Internet Movie Database . I gave " Gladiator " a bad comment and moved on . Now I can criticize it a bit deeper . " Gladiator " stars Russell Crowe as Maximus , a Roman soldier who conquers in practically any and every battle . Caesar ( Richard Harris ) likes Maximus , and so he decides to give the throne to him after he dies and not to his immoral and irresponsible son ( Joaquin Phoenix , who played Merrill in " Signs , " a much better movie ) . However , when Caesar's plans are revealed to his son , he murders his father and takes his place as Caesar , commanding Maximus to be taken out into the woods to be murdered . However , Maximus , being the great soldier that he is , escapes and flees back home to his wife and child - - only to find them burned alive and hanging dead outside the house . Maximus eventually comes into custody and is thrown in a gladiatorial arena , where he becomes the main star , killing and conquering in every battle . Soon he is like a modern day baseball player - - fans line up outside the Colosseum just to see him before the battles begin . Soon the new Caesar finds out who the great gladiator really is , and so turmoil begins . The new Caesar's sister ( Connie Nielsen ) once loved Maximus , so that is thrown in for good measure , too . While we're at it , let's throw in some futuristic battleships , robots and space aliens that Maximus can fight in the sequel , when he comes back from the dead . ( And I'm not kidding about the following - - a prequel is planned . ) The movie is slow , and when it picks up speed it goes nowhere . It seems like a rip-off of " Braveheart " from beginning to end - - a soldier's family is murdered and he takes revenge on the man / nation who killed them by fighting . Granted , he has no choice but to fight in " Gladiator , " but still . . . The movie was directed by Ridley Scott , the Englishman who directed " Alien , " " Blade Runner " and , among more recent films , " Matchstick Men . " He's a talented director with an eye for atmosphere , but his films don't always work because sometimes his atmosphere gets the better of him - - like in " Gladiator . " The surroundings are dull , bleak and heartless . " Braveheart " had some ounce of beautiful settings , and Mel Gibson used long , wide lens shots of Scotland . Here we just get what we are presented with . And when the camera does pull back to give us the full picture , it's usually packed with very bad CGI effects of Colosseums and such . And Russell Crowe . How did he ever win ( and I do mean it when I say " win " ) an Oscar for this mess ? He delivers every line with the same monotone deadness in his voice as thirty minutes earlier in the film . He is and remains one of my least favorite actors , both on and off the screen . And if he wants to beat me up for saying mean things about him ( as he usually does to people ) , he can just come over to my house and try . The greasy-haired baboon . The dialogue in the movie . Oh my ! Things are said that you expect to read in a letter from a six-year-old to his / her parents . ( I was just waiting to hear , " My family is dead . I am sad . " ) To be honest , there were a few good moments in " Gladiator . " It has some impressive fight scenes , including one with two men fighting while tigers leap out of cages built underneath the sand of the arena floor and lunge for the battling duo . I must say that I came close to recommending the movie at certain times . But then it would slow down its pace again and turn into some sort of large-budget cornball . I understand that many people love this movie . Give me " Braveheart " any day . stars . - John Ulmer
It's either a severely mis-advertised comedy or a terrible horror film - but I will admit I was entertained	I still can't decide whether " Hostel " is a mis-marketed comedy or a terrible excuse for a horror film . It's no surprise Quentin Tarantino produced it - he loved " Wolf Creek , " which was also very gory - but " Wolf Creek " was scary and well-made whereas " Hostel " was cheesy , humorous and so unbelievably over-the-top I didn't know whether to laugh or be afraid . I had heard people talking about the excessive gore - but it's all goofy . The girl with her eyeball hanging out looks like she has a cheap ' 80s monster movie effect glued to her . A few parts made me cringe in anticipation , because I _ thought _ something gruesome was going to happen - but it always turned out being more funny than anything . Some critics said it's a satire of American tourism . I doubt it . I don't think Eli Roth is that smart . I think he wanted to make something fairly tongue-in-cheek while at the same time satisfying his lust for blood . ( He loves blood in horror movies - check out his list of favorites or his previous film , " Cabin Fever , " which is what attracted QT to producing this movie . ) The first hour is a teen sex comedy with three guys ( Jay Hernandez , Derek Richardson and Eythor Gudjonsson ) traveling to Europe to experience a good time . They visit seedy Dutch locales and see loads of American tourists ( " Are there even any Dutch people here ? ! " ) , then travel farther east and wind up going to a hostel where they share a room with two hot , constantly-naked babes who apparently are unaware of the material we would refer to as " clothing . " This is where I began to feel my intelligence become gradually insulted . Was Roth satirizing American stereotypes of Eastern-European countries ? Was he satirizing the horror genre's gratuitous nudity ? Or was he just buying time to get to the blood n ' guts and figured he'd fill up the running time by getting some really gorgeous women naked on set for the hell of it ? I think it was probably the last one . After all the random nudity , sex and American machismo , the movie suddenly veers into " horror " territory by showing weird Slovakian perverts slicing n ' dicing American tourists for their sick pleasure . Uh , yeah ! I forgot to mention something : this film purports to be based on " a true story . " Riiiight . ( According to Roth , he saw a mysterious website once - that he strangely hasn't seen again since - advertising a similar experience for paying customers . I think perhaps Mr . Roth was smoking something at the time , but we'll never know , I guess . ) The rest of the movie is pointless to divulge any further into . Suffice to say , if you like really cheesy movies that rely solely on gratuitous violence to scare you , this will be right up your alley . Personally , I didn't find it scary at all . The beginning - the sex stuff - is scarier than the actual violence later on because it has atmosphere and an air of anticipation - you know something bad is going to happen . And the movie works best in this mode . Once it starts exploiting the torture and violence , it just becomes laughable and predictable . And then , of course , we get the stereotypical hero who is too stupid to realize that if he escapes alone he can send back help for ALL the people rather than risk his life to go back into the hostel to rescue ONE person . Eh , what does he know , anyway . Dumb American tourist . ( See - I can make fun of tourists like Mr . Roth , too ! )
A fairly good horror film with a few considerable flaws . Not one of my favorites .	" When there is no more room in hell , the dead will walk the earth . " Sometimes movies attain cult classic stature for puzzling reasons . I've never understood the success of " Dawn of the Dead " ( 1978 ) . At least not as far as to call it one of the best horror films ever made . It's a good movie , with some fine moments , but it's poorly written and poorly directed and poorly acted . It's not masterfully crafted in any way . Sure , it has a high level of sly social commentary , but it's about as subtle as a blow to the head . The end credits , although amusing , are a sign that the director - George A . Romero - is really pushing these ideas onto us way too heavily . We got it the first time . Enough is enough . I've never thought very highly of Romero . " Night of the Living Dead " ( 1968 ) is truly one of the best horror films of all time , but it is quite adequately directed - the movie succeeds on its own , not because of its director . And Romero's " Season of the Witch " ( 1973 ) was proof of this - a film so bad that it defied all words . Anyone who calls him a great director needs to see that atrocious piece of cinema . Still , he has to be somewhat credited for starting the zombie craze . " Dawn of the Dead " was the first of these modern-day zombie movies - more brutal and graphic than its predecessor , and arguably a bit smarter . Some people call it a sequel , but essentially the film is an updated remake , filmed ten years after the first movie with a larger budget , colorized prints , Tom Savini's sometimes laughable creature effects , and so on and so forth . It picks up right after the first film , despite an unexplained ten-year gap of technology . The zombies are still attacking Pennsylvania , so a pilot , his girlfriend and two SWAT members take refuge in a local mall that is overrun by the slow-moving creatures . " Why do they come here ? " Francine ( Gaylen Ross ) asks . " Some kind of instinct . Memory , of something they used to do . This was an important place in their lives , " David Emge tells her . I hate to break the news , but not all Americans revolve around malls - at least not anyone I know ( and my relatives all live in Pennsylvania ) . But it's symbolism for commercialism in America , and it works , even if the theme is strongly overused . The film was criticized upon its release in 1978 for being ultra-violent and too gory . It's not . If anything , it's what Romero himself described as " comic book violence " - lots of ( obviously ) fake and over-the-top blood and gore mixed with quite silly looking zombies . The makeup is often uneven - when one of the main characters reanimates after being killed by a zombie , his face is shriveled and pale and horrifying . All the other zombies can't have such close attention paid towards them by Savini , so they often appear as if they've wandered out of a pool of gray paint . Many people consider " Dawn of the Dead " to be one of the finest horror films of all time . As much as I appreciate it as a whole , and as fun as it is , it's also a bit too long for a film of its genre - I gave it a chance but found myself counting many scenes that could have been cut , or at least shortened . I respect the movie , but I have a feeling that the newly-released remake may be more in the vein of my own personal tastes . Plus , the new film has fast zombies . You just can't beat fast zombies . Note : " Dawn of the Dead " is now available to purchase on a single disc " Special Edition " DVD , with commentary by Romero and special effects artist Tom Savini , radio spots , commercials , theatrical trailers , a Romero biography , a new 2004 state-of-the-art digital transfer , and more . I bought the DVD but am not overwhelmed by its features - if you're a huge fan of the movie , I suggest waiting until later this year , when the 3-disc DVD is released ( presumably around the same time as the 2004 remake's DVD release date ) . stars . - John Ulmer
Too over-the-top , but it has its moments .	There's a certain something about ' Batman Returns ' that doesn't quite fit . Perhaps it's the mix of film noir with superhero-after all , isn't film noir the opposite of the notion of a superhero ? Film noirs are about an Everyman in an odd situation , thrust into something he can't possibly stop ; comic book superheroes are those who choose a life of salvation , who give something away voluntarily . Tim Burton's ' Batman ' was a good comic book adaptation ; one of the best . It blended film noir with action hero , super-hero-type stuff . Very risky , but it paid off . ' Batman Returns ' fails miserably . The Dark Knight always was a bit darker than his other superhero friends , such as ' Superman ' or ' Spider-Man . ' If I had to choose a favorite , it would be Batman : The world he lives in is darker , and he is much more identifiable than someone who is extraordinary ; Batman is just a guy tired of the bad life , much like Robert De Niro's Taxi Driver , who once said , ' Here is a man fed up with the crime on the streets . ' Batman is , in a way , a sort of Taxi Driver . But director Tim Burton , whose other director outings have included the colossal hit ' Batman ' and ' Edward Scissorhands ' ( both very dark films ) , fails to seamlessly blend film noir with superhero . The two are contrary , Batman living in a 1940s-era Gotham City always worked , but there's something wrong with this Gotham City . It was the start of more bad sequels , which would all lose the classy vision the original sustained . Things started getting darker and yet , at the same time , much brighter . Dialogue started getting cornier . Situations started getting ludicrous . ' Batman Returns ' was the start of this ; I keep repeating myself but I'm not sure how to explain what feeling this film gives me . In a way , I love Tim Burton as a director for the Batman series ; in another way , I don't . In a way , I like the dark look of Gotham City ; in another way , I think it's too dark . In a way , I loved the original ; in a way , the sequels all suck . Batman ( Michael Keaton ) , a . k . a . Bruce Wayne , is once again called out to stop the unstoppable Penguin ( Danny DeVito ) , who is trying to take control of Gotham City with the help of Catwoman ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) and Christopher Walken ( what's his character's name in the film ? Who cares . ) Many villains followed , many sequels followed , and they all stank . ' Batman Returns ' makes the mistake of turning the Penguin , a very dark creature ( from what I can tell as I never read the comics very much at all-barely ever , in fact ) , into an overly creepy , corny character who speaks a lot of clichés . He doesn't convince ; Danny DeVito is the perfect casting choice , but his character is too weird to like , or even have fun watching . There's a certain joy in watching Jack Nicholson parade around as the Joker in the original ' Batman'-and though he was the bad guy , I myself kind of felt sad when he died at the end , knowing he would never be seen again ( unlike the comics and television shows where he always appears to have died , only to come back again ) . Danny DeVito is great , but the things his character does , and the way he is captured on screen , is almost too dark to enjoy . This film is essentially much darker than the first , something I never imagined possible for a Batman film . Burton really pushed the envelope on this one . I must admit I have , on occasion , viewed the ' Batman ' television show ; not the 60s one ( though I've seen that , too ) , but the cartoon show . It's splendid fun ; it's a lot like Tim Burton's sequel but actually captures more of what the original film had . The villains , especially the Joker , are great fun to watch . I recommend the cartoon over this film , as Batman fans will find it much more respecting to the comic-strip , and regular moviegoers will actually find it a lot more fun to watch . ' Batman Returns ' tries a lot of things , but it doesn't get away with them like the first film did . How are we supposed to enjoy watching creepy villains that aren't any fun to watch ? To be honest , I don't care . I gave up on trying to solve this after the third film , which though truly terrible , was even more fun to watch than this film ( don't ask me why ) . The fourth was unbearable , but that's another story . stars -
Just ugly , loud , trashy and not very funny at all .	I've never liked the original " Bad Boys " from 1995 despite its reputation as one of the " better " cop-buddy movies out there . In my opinion it's all style over substance and director Michael Bay's annoying use of the sun-drenched , hard-hitting , always-moving camera distracts from the reality of the friendship between Smith and Lawrence's characters . The over-the-top action violence and stupid sex gags make the story seem unrealistic and the characters fake . The sequel isn't much better . It's eight years after the first film ( can't believe it took so long for them to cash in on the original ) and essentially exactly the same . Smith is still a fashionable playboy who's got it all together . Lawrence is still a neurotic wimp . Their boss ( Joe Pantoliano ) is still at their throats . The bad guys are still stereotypes , the women are still all beautiful and wearing as little as possible . Even the plot is very similar . They're on the trail of a drug smuggler yet AGAIN . This time the guy hides his drugs in dead bodies and their mission is to take him down and provide enough evidence to incriminate him - so they use a romantic interest to be a mole in the drug lord's operation . Bay's direction is just as bad as before - but now thanks to a much bigger budget , a larger cast and crew and the advent of advanced digital technology , the explosions are bigger , the car chases are longer and more boring , the camera moves even more and never stops zooming and cutting away to other scenes , and so on and so forth . The movie isn't really that funny either . It's just brutally violent for the sake of being so - it tries to add risqué humor and some " misunderstood events " to make the film funnier ( such as Lawrence and Smith's conversation being displayed on all the TVs in the electronic store ) , but we've been there , done that already . It's not worth the time or money that was invested into it on both ends . Hopefully there won't be a " Bad Boys III . "
I was very disappointed .	So these two sex-crazy guys decide to crash weddings . They get laid a lot , really easily , and keep doing it . ( Pun intended . ) So eventually one of them actually falls in love with a girl , and meanwhile a nutcase harasses his best buddy . Cue some crude sex gags , a couple of cameos and all the other obvious stuff . The result ? Wedding Crashers , a disappointingly average comedy starring Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn . The movie's plot isn't strong to begin with , but it is taken to an insultingly simplistic level in less than thirty minutes . Once the beginning wears off , the movie gets stuck in a rut ? it turns into a film less about crashing weddings , and more about trying to survive in a wacko's house for a few days without being sexually molested . ( Nope , it's not a Michael Jackson biography . ) Example ? In one scene , a woman molests Vaughn's character , then ? while still strapped to a bed , unable to free himself ? another character who's supposed to be gay begins to kiss him and proceeds to try and seduce him . It's funny at first , but the whole gag is stretched far too long ? once we understand that the girl is a psycho and the kid is gay , it's only funny for so long . Meanwhile Christopher Walken ( who plays a wealthy politician ) is pushed to the background , his character unconvincing , unfunny and unreasonable . Although the role is similar to that of De Niro's in " Meet the Parents , " it's so underwritten and neglected that Walken really just comes across as another vacant face . Vaughn and Wilson have good chemistry ( which we already knew , really ) and they alone make Wedding Crashers suitable entertainment . As a way of passing ninety lazy minutes , it's adequate fluff . But it could have been better ? a lot better . The humor could have been funnier , raunchier , and more daring . The plot could have used less clichés and more spice . Walken and many other characters could have been filled out to their full comedic potential . In the end , the movie is disappointing because it achieves so little . It's one of those films where you're already forgetting it on the way out of the theater . I was hoping I'd at least remember it back to the hotel room .
Not prescient anymore	" Fatal Attraction " was a cultural phenomenon when it came out back in 1987 and spawned a whole sub-genre of films like " Swimf @ n " : mainly movies that dealt with psycho killers taking revenge on their loved ones who have dumped them . Glenn Close is the psycho in this film . She has an affair with ' 80s yuppie Michael Douglas , who's a married man with a daughter at home . He eventually tries to end the steamy affair - much to the chagrin of Close . She decides to begin maniacally stalking him and his family - threatening to kidnap and kill his daughter and his wife . The movie's time has come and gone . It's outdated , not thrilling anymore . Due to all the films it spawned , it's predictable and boring . It's better than a lot of them , but still not a good film .
Sorry , it's also a bad movie .	Harvey Keitel is the titular " Bad Lieutenant , " a nameless character whose moral self-degradation becomes the focus of Abel Ferrara's controversial 1992 motion picture . In one scene the Bad Lieutenant pulls over two teenaged girls who have " borrowed " their father's car . He promises not to arrest them if they do something for him . What follows is heavily responsible for the MPAA's NC-17 rating . " Bad Lieutenant " follows this man through his own personal hell ? drug addiction , alcoholism , self-loathing and sexual perversity ? in an effort to examine the inner workings of a corrupt cop on the brink of death . Keitel gives a good performance , his eyes lost somewhere in between hope and despair , but is too much of an exhibitionist ? his seemingly mandatory full-frontal nudity is unnecessary and showy . Keitel's career has always been a successful one , but also unreliable and uneven . His performance here is believable , but despicable ; that's the point , of course , but to some degree even the most unlikable cinema icons ( such as Robert De Niro in " Taxi Driver " ) had a certain level of humanity in them that we could relate to . I didn't have any compassion for Keitel's character , and as a result his performance failed to captivate me in any way . The film is competently directed . I wasn't deeply offended by any of the content found within . I did , however , get the feeling that those involved with " Bad Lieutenant " were primarily interested in being controversial , and not telling an honest story . This film takes too long to do nothing of any real importance . It sets up Keitel as the Bad Lieutenant . They are free to do whatever they like with this . So , he's on drugs , swears at his kids , is a pervert and so on and so forth . However , once we understand that he's sick , there's no need to beat a dead horse . " Bad Lieutenant " stays in one place too long , repeating itself , rather than proceeding . Most of the film is an examination of his moral depravity ? there should be a flip-end to the coin ; the redemption period is a throwaway effort kept tucked away at the back of the picture and by the time it rolls around , we don't care anymore . The preaching is too heavy-handed and as a result the film lacks the conviction it should possess . It is as if the cast and crew are too insecure with their project to let it stand on its own , so Ferrara inserts unsubtle religious iconography into his picture as some sort of last-ditch effort to provide a Christ-like redemption for the Bad Lieutenant to pass through . Religious symbolism in cinema often works as a metaphor for personal forgiveness and self-retribution . In " Bad Lieutenant , " the concept is taken far too literally ? even a couch in one scene of the movie bears a religious symbol on it ? and as a result comes across as being too thick , too overburdened , and too distasteful to find any sort of value in .
OK but overlong and seriously flawed	Having a great amount of potential I had looked forward to this project with anticipation but after finally seeing it in 2000 I was severely disappointed ! I felt the movie wandered around quite a bit without ever focusing on anything in particular , it had a very disturbing undercurrent that seemed to betray some of the lighter material . I understand the story is essentially dark and that works in many films but here it just left me feeling alienated . The acting is not particularly good and the story itself is frequently boring . It seems to think it's much better than it really is and the director and editor have put together the film in such a way that it's screaming out for Oscar nominations , but the reason it didn't receive any is because compared to other epics it simply isn't very good at all ! It's OK but takes itself far too seriously and is simultaneously disappointing and underwhelming .
Dirty Harry enters " The Jungle " . . .	" The Dead Pool " was the fifth ( and apparently final ) " Dirty Harry " film , a series that began prosperously in 1971 and , by now , was rather out of steam . To be fair , it starts out entertainingly enough ? the opening sequence may be far-fetched but it is skillfully executed , and the following scenes provide the sort of familiar dry humor that will please most of Clint Eastwood's fans . ( " Opinions are like elbows . Everyone's got one . " Except he doesn't actually say " elbows . " ) A half-hour into the picture , I was actually surprised to find that " The Dead Pool " was very entertaining and , above all else , daring . In this time period , we receive a satire of politics , the media's affiliation with the police and some particularly un-PC remarks ( Such as one remark about a Chinese-American partner and the motivation behind his promotion . ) The movie peaks when it delivers funny humor ? there's a sequence with Jim Carrey ( before he was famous ) playing a rock star named Johnny Squares , and the first time we are introduced to his character is during a scene in which he's filming a music video and lip synching to Guns N ' Roses ' " Welcome to the Jungle . " This goes on for roughly two minutes . I suppose back in 1988 this was due to the fact that the GN'R song was a hit ? a top ten single , actually ? and as such was an efficient way to entice the younger crowds to go see the film . Nowadays , it's a funny scene because we focus on Carrey and realize just how absurd his dancing and Axl Rose impersonations are ? perhaps something audiences didn't really get back in ' 88 . Anyway , Carrey's rock star caricature Johnny is a heroin addict who is murdered in his trailer after shooting up again . Inspector " Dirty " Harry Callahan ( Clint Eastwood ) is called to the scene of the crime with his new partner , and they soon realize that there is a strange " dead pool " list floating around San Francisco ? begun by an Irish director ( Liam Neeson ) who was working with Johnny . The list works like this : You name a handful of celebrities who you think may die in the coming months , and whoever's list is the most accurate at the end of this time period wins . The irony of all this is that Johnny Squares ' name is on the director's list ? which implicates him in the crime . Furthermore , Harry himself is included on the dead pool list , which means he could be the next target . The movie has two plots going on at once ? one involves the dead pool list ( coupled with the mandatory romantic subplot ) and the other is about an incarcerated gangster who wants to seek vengeance on the man who locked him up . That man , of course , is Harry . As its runtime progresses " The Dead Pool " becomes stupider and stupider , until Harry is diving through fire to save suicide victims in slow-motion , impaling baddies with spear guns and so on and so forth . Buddy Van Horn , who's worked with Eastwood many times and was , ironically , a stunt worker on his latest masterpiece , " Million Dollar Baby " , directed the movie . And he gets it half right , and then suddenly turns into a hack . It's like he got tired of the effort and midway through filming , handed over the director's chair to an idiot whose training consists of Action Thriller Clichés 101 . Then despite the whole wandering nature of the movie , we've got Guns N ' Roses . Where to begin ? As aforementioned , Jim Carrey imitates band frontman Axl Rose for a couple minutes . It's funny , but out of place in a " Dirty Harry " film . But it doesn't stop there . Their song plays at least twice in the movie , for a total of over seven minutes . The killer even stops a massacre at one point to slip a cassette tape into his deck and begin playing " Welcome to the Jungle , " and then resumes slicing his victim . It's a bit odd , to say the least . On top of that , the band's musicians ? Axl Rose , Slash , Izzy Stradlin ' , Duff McKagen and Steven Adler ? perform cameos . It's a really odd movie , that kind of hybrid of genres and cross-referential pop culture thriller that isn't really sure what it wants to be . This is worth a look , to be sure , if only for the fact that it's so unusual ? especially considering the fact that it's a " Dirty Harry " sequel . That it was the final in the franchise seems understandable .
Boring and unimpressive action fare .	Walter Hill used to be a great action director - before he started making crap . " Last Man Standing " is one of those poor 1990s Bruce Willis action movies where nothing really sticks together . It doesn't have the flair and comedy of " The Last Boy Scout " or " Die Hard , " nor is it as well-developed as " Pulp Fiction " or " Twelve Monkeys . " It's basically Bruce running around killing people . The worst thing about this in my opinion is the awful voice-over narration . It tries to fit into the style of the old noir films from the ' 40s and ' 50s , and of course the gangster pictures of the era as well , but it instantly comes across as forced , annoying and hammy . Bruce does his Steely-Eyed Act where he just glares at people a lot and spouts a few lines here and there . It scores a ( about on par with " Mercury Rising " ) on the scale of Lazy Bruce Willis Acting . When Bruce is trying he can be a fine actor ( " Twelve Monkeys " being the standout ) but this is essentially just an ugly , violent , boring , silly homage to the gangster flicks of long ago ; it doesn't really offer anything new and as a result comes across as dull and repetitive .
Beardface	Review edited for IMDb due to word limit . See wiredonmovies . com for full review . " Serpico , " its many flaws notwithstanding , is far from being a terribly exciting motion picture . Granted , it is based on the true story of an incorruptible Italian-American cop named Frank Serpico who brought down an entire police precinct that was " in on the take . " But true stories aren't always warranting for great films . That's the primary reason Hollywood always spices stories up by inserting scenes that never occurred in real life and altering the facts . " Serpico " could have used a bit of altering . It's just not interesting enough to sustain its material for two and a half hours . Perhaps a ninety-minute movie would have done it justice , but its running time is far too long for such a film . But even then I could probably say it's a well-made film . Too bad it feels so sloppy and cheap . Let me briefly rephrase that in a nutshell : It's not a bad movie . It just could have been a lot better . Sidney Lumet should be ashamed . He should have fired the editor the first day on the job . Here we have many different scenes spliced together , in apparently random order , and an unbearably dingy audio track that plays during ( and over ) conversations ! Music is essential to all film , but it has to be used correctly . You can't just play a soundtrack throughout an entire motion picture . But Lumet doesn't even do that . He plays it in the worst spots he possibly could . It's as if he went through the entire movie , marked down each scene where there shouldn't be music in the background , then applied it . Even if you're going to burden the audience with music and dialogue blending together at the same time , at least make it good music ! Many scenes seem pointless and badly executed . Pacino is a standout but the rest of the film is a failure . The acting ( save Pacino ) is stiff and the dialogue is corny ( save Serpico's , but even his gets cheesy sometimes ) . It's as if everything were scripted by an author and just fed to the actors . Oh , wait , that's exactly what happened . My bad . Did all these people who claim this is the best police corruption film ever made witness the same mediocre blend of poor technicalities and acting and music that I did ? Did they not see the horrendous nature of the random interactions being spliced together with separate ones ? Did they not notice that every time a crucial character moment came around this really , really bad music started to play over the actors ' ? The plot is pointless because I've already delved into it - - a downtown police precinct is corrupt and they can't stand Serpico's morality . So they decide to plot against him and try to murder him . They fail . First we get Serpico being led away in a car . ( " He's been shot by a cop ! " ) Bloodstained and in a daze , we see Al Pacino's bearded portrayal of Serpico drifting in and out of consciousness . Then we get the non-introduced flashbacks to the beginning . But Lumet presents Serpico as a caricature , playing by all the rules and fitting snugly into a giant cliché . Al Pacino rises above these clichés , of course , with his hard-edged performance . But imagine how much more powerful it could have been if the director and scriptwriter had liberated him and set him free . Maybe we'd get a performance to equal that in " Scarface . " But alas , Pacino is simply overburdened with juggling these clichés and only manages to make the character somewhat realistic . Even then he goes through the same routines that all the clean characters go through . ( Even Sly made it more realistic in " Cop Land . " ) I saw a documentary once about the real Frank Serpico and what he did after the film was released . He turned into a hermit . He still looks the same , with his beard and all , but it'd be interesting to watch the film with him and have him point out all the things he actually did and said as opposed to what's in the movie . I'm not saying Serpico was corrupt . I'm sure everything is true . I'm sure he was a very nice and moralistic man . But there's a difference between being a moralistic man and a naive idiot like Serpico in the movie . Pacino makes him smarter than he appears on paper but read some of his lines to yourself and notice the sheer stupidity of it all . Pacino's performance is a knockout one , which is why " Serpico " gets a fair rating in my book and a weak recommendation . But it takes its time getting places , too many scenes are out of place , the music is more often distracting than not and the rest of the cast are insufferable . They could easily have brought down Pacino but he's too strong for that . He's a fighter , just like Serpico , which may explain why he took on the role . Too bad Lumet had to interfere with his performance . Too bad the music had to interfere with the dialogue . Too bad Lumet and the music had to be there at all . Just imagine what Scorsese could have done with this , and how liberating he could have made the character and his interactions . Here we just have a stone caricature of a real man , and it isn't too terribly impressive .
This Time it's Kind of Personal !	A film like " Jaws 2 " proves that we can , indeed , get too much of a good thing . Action and shark over substance and character development . Somewhere along the way " Jaws " went from being about deep , intelligent characters in intense situations to shallow teenagers in B-monster-movie moments . " Jaws 2 , " or " Jaws2 " ( no space in between " s " and " 2 " ) , takes place four years after the horrid events in Amity , seen in the first film . Police Chief Brody ( Roy Scheider , commonly mistaken for Rob Schneider with today's audience ) is a veteran of a shark attack , of course . And like most sequels involving characters who once battled a beast of some sort and survived , Brody is now the official expert on sharks . When a boat blows up off shore , Brody suspects a shark . When a killer whale is found dead with chomp marks , Brody suspects a shark . Heck , you could blow up the state of Arkansas and Brody would probably think it's a shark . Soon Brody loses his job because the town mayor ( Murray Hamilton , reprising his role shortly in this film because he had to stop filming to attend to his sick wife ) doesn't like poor Brody , even after the events of the first film . Then Brody's seventeen-year-old son goes out on a sail boat and before you can go , " Duh-duh-duh-duh " JAWS is coming at him and his friends . Brody goes , tries to save them , and you can guess what the outcome is . Okay , here are some things I noticed that hindered this film : 1 . The first thing that hits you over the head here is how this film is painfully a copy in every way of the first film , only about ten times worse . There is no suspense - - they show the shark from the beginning on . In a documentary made just for the " Jaws2 " DVD , the director says that " The shark has already been seen , so there's no suspense - - you might as well show it . " Well , this is a bit true - - I hate when horror sequels wait till the end to show the creature ( " Predator 2 " ) even though we've seen them in the first . But the way they do it here is painfully un-suspenseful . The film really contains no sense of suspense . 2 . You'd think that everyone in the town would have learned their lesson last time : Brody was right about a shark , and he saved the day . Here we see everyone turning back to their old ways and ignoring Brody . You could give excuses for this , but the fact of the matter remains : It's just another retread of the first film , done on a much lesser scale . 3 . The shark here is shown too much - - he looks like a rubber ducky in a bathtub . Kids scream as it attacks boats and helicopters - - yes , helicopters ( that looks strange on paper ) - - and the shark comes out of the water head first to swim forward . Now , unlike the first film where the shark was never shown very well - - because of mechanical problems or not , they still didn't show it - - they show the shark many , many times here . And unlike the first when they DID show the shark , in " Jaws2 " they make the shark look utterly unrealistic . In the first the rubber shark swam like a shark - - this thing swims like a giant piece of rubber in an ocean . 4 . The director obviously went for action over story : Steven Spielberg masterfully crafted an instense and scary film , yet at the same time provided a very interesting character study . Here , we just see blood , guts , and big rubber sharks - - something that might look good in a B-horror-movie , but not in a " Jaws " film . 5 . What are the remote chances that another 25-foot Great White Shark ( capitalized for effect ) would be off the coast off the small town Amity twice ? Perhaps this will answer that question : After finding a killer whale , Brody asks a marine biologist ( filling in Richard Dreyfuss ' most-missed shoes ) , " You don't think if one shark dies , another shark could come and " - - he gets cut off by the marine biologist , who says , " Sharks don't take things personally , Mr . Brody . " Well , that's funny , according to the tagline for the forth film they do . Perhaps that is one of the confusing elements of this film . Is the shark attacking because Brody killed the other one four years ago ? Or is it just an odd coincidence ? We may never know . Steven Spielberg had the smarts to move on after the first project , as did Richard Dreyfuss , and Roy Scheider should have said " no , " too , because you can't flog a dead fish and expect people to jump . ( Did that make sense ? Sorry , I had a good catch-phrase in my head but it didn't come out right . ) The first film should have been a stand alone , but in the case that they should make a sequel to one of the most cherished films of all time , for heaven's sake , make it good ! So now I come back to my original question . What should my header be for this review ? And then I got it : " This time it's kind of personal ! " stars - John Ulmer
A bizarre retelling of the story that , for my tastes , is a bit too outlandish at times - but still features a great performance by Depp	Tim Burton is very much a " cult " director in the sense that he has a huge circle of fans - a lot of them having emerged onto the Internet over the years - and outside of these fans there are a lot of critics who despise him for some reason . I lean towards the circle but I'd never say I'm a fan of his , and " Sleepy Hollow " is a good example of why Burton still has flaws as a filmmaker . His penchant for the outlandishly dark and eccentric storytelling is visually superb - this movie LOOKS great - but the narrative is weak , and the movie is so exaggerated in places that it's hard to take seriously . I'm mainly referencing scenes such as the one inside the church when a man has a tombstone cross thrust through his heart from hundreds of feet away , and is then dragged outside across the ground of the cemetery . I mean , it's just a bit too much . Burton takes a lot of creative liberties with the story - some of which work , and others of which do not . The best aspect is Johnny Depp who turns in a brilliantly bizarre performance as Ichabod Crane , the Inspector sent to investigate recent murders only to find the place haunted by a demonic being . The twist Burton adds to this story towards the end was too much for me - I thought , like many of Burton's film endings , the finale went way over-the-top . It turns into a fairly standard cinematic action romp with the eighteenth century equivalent of a modern car race taking place on a horse buggy , and a stupid explosion inside a windmill that just screams " HOLLYWOOD ! " I recommend this is you are a Burton or Depp fan - if not , you probably won't enjoy it much . The sets are wonderful and the performance by Depp is a highlight , but other than that , there's not a lot going on here .
Gloriously stupid , but also entertaining	This film was listed in my television guide one night and it failed to mention what it was about , who starred in it , nor who directed it . If I had known all of the above ahead of time , I surely would have made sure to see the entire film ; instead , I happened to turn it on after twenty minutes had already been aired . I saw Tom Selleck ( an actor I've always enjoyed watching ) and thought , " What is this ? ! " I looked it up on IMDb and when I saw Michael Crichton had directed it , I couldn't believe it . First of all , I'd never heard of it , but that's beside the point - this movie is awesome ! In a bad way , sure , but nevertheless awesome ! It's got Gene Simmons as a villain for goodness sake , what more can you ask for ? This is so cheesy and bad that it wouldn't earn a newbie director a passing grade in film school . Crichton , however , has such confidence in his outrageous material ( small acid-spewing robots being used to take over the world ) that it comes across as totally entertaining . From beginning ( almost ) to end I was kept amused by the film and never felt like it was too slow or anything . Don't get me wrong . This is an awful film . But it makes no attempt to be a great epic or anything ; the ending is so far-fetched , ridiculous and clichéd you can't help but love it ! A classic of bad ' 80s movies to be cherished eternally .
More of a summary of WHY we should ENJOY this film and not take it so seriously , than a comment . ( SOME SPOILERS ! ! )	First , it really isn't fair to look at this movie in the light of . ' Collateral Damage ' was shot before so it is hard to look at the film without having hard feelings , but the movie for me brought back the ' Die Hard ' feel , of just pure fun and entertainment . You can't watch a movie like this and take it too seriously , it's just entertainment , and should be considered just that . People may argue that entertainment should not ( and never should ) have been so realistic in the terms of violence , but come on , it's a Schwarzenegger movie , it isn't realistic ! Audiences loved ' Die Hard ' ( which of course as everyone knows , starred Bruce Willis , not Arnold ) when it came out , and still do . But the bottom line is the good guy always wins . Have you ever seen a Schwarzenegger film where Arnold dies fighting for the good cause ? It's the same way with this movie . Some may say to view a fireman as a Schwarzenegger character is making fun of them . This is COMPLETELY untrue . Why is this making fun of firemen ? Because he goes out and gets the bad guy ? I'm not saying we should just forget what happened on , it's impossible . I'm also not saying we should ease off the subject by ignoring it , which is also impossible . All I'm saying is that for 2 hours we should be able to go into a movie , and enjoy it . It reminds ( not makes us forget ! ) of a lesser time when terrorist plotted MOVIES were fun to watch ( like ' Die Hard ' ) because we all know in the end the good guy gets the bad guy , and triumphs . This will probably be the last terrorist action ( not drama ) movie for a LONG time . Enjoy it while you can , it won't be around like I said , for a LONG time . P . S . People have said they re-edited this movie after . THEY DID NOT ! Read the aol chat with arnold by going to Schwarzenegger . com , he answers that question himself . Now a quick squease of a comment . I personally enjoyed this movie from begginng to end . I didn't think anything in it was offensive to the events on . As before , it's just entertainment , enjoy it while you can . stars
Okay . . . Not Carrey's best , but okay .	Ace Ventura does have some laughs . The acting is a little over the top sometimes , but in a way it makes the movie work . Just watching Carrey walk is so overacted . He purposely throws his legs into the air . And while things like this may seem stupid , it kind of fits the Ventura character . I enjoyed this movie enough to recommend it , so there . I recommend it . Now go see it and have a few laughs . stars . JOHN ULMER
Fun - nothing else	With a cast consisting of Quentin Tarantino , Cheech Marin , Steve Buscemi et al it seems like DESPERADO is the Q . T . Generation Get-Together - Rodriguez would direct Q . T . again next year in the cult " classic " FROM DUSK TILL DAWN and they'd be joined again by Salma Hayek . . . et al . . . the list goes on . Rodriguez uses a lot of the same players in his movies and I'd be willing to give DESPERADO more praise if he had actually refrained from giving Tarantino fourth billing considering his appearance is really just a cameo , and anyone who doesn't recognize him probably hasn't been watching any TV or movies over the past decade . The movie itself is pretty good fun - a sequel to EL MARIACHI with Antonio Banderas taking over the role of " El " the killing mariachi singer . The movie is never quite as clever or great as it could be but it is a good deal of fun in a sort of wink-wink way - you can tell it's just a big guilty pleasure for the cast and all involved are having fun . . . that would carry over into DAWN and again into the third installment of the Mariachi trilogy , ONCE UPON A TIME IN Mexico , which is ( in my opinion ) an even better action movie than this - which drags a bit towards the middle . No PULP FICTION or GOOD THE BAD AND THE UGLY , but still a decent amount of spaghetti-western-style fun .
I enjoyed it	I think people took this film waaay too seriously . At first I was like , " Oh no , some lame European boys ' travel film with T & A jokes . " But the interesting thing about " An American Werewolf in Paris " is that it begins to satirize the clichés of the genre - - even going so far as to criticize the original film . ( But then again , the original John Landis film was intended as a horror satire , also . ) I mean , you know a film isn't meant to be taken very seriously when in the first ten minutes an American tourist has bungee-jumped off of the Eiffel Tower late at night and manages to fall faster than someone else by betraying simple laws of physics . Also , is it really that simple to get up on the Eiffel Tower late at night ? They don't have any security ? Look at it as a piece of silly self-referential satire - nothing more . I thought that it was quite enjoyable taken as such , and as long as you're not expecting a scary masterpiece , you're liable to have a fun time .
Better than I expected	I caught this during a weekend afternoon on Comedy Central and was pleasantly surprised . I expected an insulting and stupid buddy movie , but found myself somewhat entertained . I guess that's the point , anyway - it's not high art ; just an amusing , OK film that has a few good jokes and amiable enough performances . Orlando Jones plays a Harvard-educated lawyer who becomes involved in a murder conspiracy . He decides to make a run for Mexico to meet the only person who believes him at a rendezvous point - but along the way runs into authorities and , in an effort to ditch them , switches identities with an apparently homeless druggie ( played by Eddie Griffin ) . The two men essentially play each other for the duration of the film - Griffin pretending to be a high-class black man and the educated black male stereotype pretending to be a loud-mouth black stereotype . Is this movie racist ? I wouldn't say that . But it does rely on many stereotypes . Nevertheless , it comes across as passable due to the amusing performances and pace of the movie . It's nothing great , but it helped me pass the time on a dreary afternoon .
Very nice action flick !	Although it is very unrealistic , AIR FORCE ONE is just pure , 100 % fun at the movies . Anyone who takes this serious has a problem . It's not meant to be , it's just supposed to be an entertaining , fun , action packed thrill ride . Action haters beware ! The acting was great-as usual with any Harrison Ford film - the directing was good , and it's like I said before , just good plain fun ! So take my advice , see Air Force One , and don't take it too seriously . Just have fun watching it ! stars ! JOHN ULMER
A Fine Cast ; A Decent Family Film . . .	Jonathan Taylor Thomas , Howie Mandel , David Hyde Pierce , Jenna Elfman , Marlon Wayans and Tom Bosley make up the cast of " The Tangerine Bear , " a decent family film that features a fine cast and " okay " animation . Tangy is a teddy bear who has tragically been created with an upside-down smile . In this film he basically sits in a toy shop and is a good samaritan to other toys , and of course the sentimental ending is included . The animation may not be great , the story may be a bit dry , but " The Tangerine Bear " isn't that bad . Just decent . It's clean entertainment to be enjoyed around the holiday , which as I write this , is coming up very soon . stars - - John Ulmer
A good movie , but Spielberg's version of Wells ' ending leaves a bad aftertaste .	Nobody makes a summer blockbuster better than Steven Spielberg . With " War of the Worlds " he attempts to show the other boys ( namely Roland Emmerich and Michael Bay ) how it's done ? and for about seventy minutes , he succeeds . Whereas " The Day After Tomorrow " relied solely on special effects , and " Armageddon " was downright boring , " War of the Worlds " spends time dealing with its characters , then moves on to the action ; I felt a connection with them , and even as human carcasses are zapped into dust particles by attacking alien tripods , there were basic human emotions at stake that translated well across the screen . Unfortunately , the last twenty minutes of the movie are rushed , sloppy , insulting and oh-so-typical of Spielberg . Even in his evil-alien movies he isn't satisfied with a grim conclusion . Everything has to be wrapped up all nice and peachy . The movie stars Tom Cruise as Ray Ferrier , a dock worker in a small Northern US town who is left to care for his estranged children when their mother and her new husband pick up and leave to head for her parents ' in Boston . At first everything is normal ? his teenaged son and 11-year-old daughter , both of who are less than enthused to be spending time with their biological father , ignore Ray . However , strange occurrences in the weather ? violent thunderstorms and enormous earthquakes - - mark the appearance of a huge machine that rises from underneath the ground and begins to tear apart the town , killing everyone in sight , destroying buildings , and tearing apart the roads . Running scared , Ray manages to find a working vehicle and escapes with his two children ; further north they find similar attacks under way and narrowly avoid death many times , continuing their search for Ray's ex-wife ? or shelter , whichever comes first . " War of the Worlds " is clearly a product of the times . Whereas ten or twenty years ago alien attacks in a Spielberg movie would have surely elicited no response from children , or at most a self-reference to other Spielberg films ( had Elliot from " E . T . " seen " Close Encounters " ? ) , the first thing Ray's daughter ( Dakota Fanning ) presumes during the initial onslaught is that terrorists are attacking America . The movie also deals indirectly with the Bush administration and the war in Iraq ; Ray's son leaves to join the resistance and fight with the Army . " I know you feel like you have to do this , " Ray yells , " but you don't ! You don't have to ! " There are numerous such references , with Tim Robbins ' fanatical underground patriot the epitome of the disillusioned , naïve gung-ho American . The movie marks Spielberg's second collaboration with Tom Cruise ; their first was 2002's Philip K . Dick-inspired sci-fi adventure " Minority Report . " Cruise and Spielberg share similar traits ? both are tremendously popular in their fields and have been around long enough to know what works . The first hour of " War of the Worlds " shows promise because of how well Spielberg and Cruise manage to bounce off each other ? Cruise keeps the human elements under control while Spielberg ups the mantle on the SF / X and disaster . Scriptwriter David Koepp keeps the story rooted in reality while maintaining a science-fiction edge . John Williams ' score evokes the rhythm and patterns of B-budget 1950s sci-fi , and he's clearly having a lot of fun with his orchestra for this soundtrack . But then it all falls apart . The ending is like a hazy dream sequence , illogical and unbelievable . Rarely have I seen a movie so belittled by its finale . I am not referring to H . G . Wells ' ending , of course , but rather Spielberg's tacky additions - the closure is simultaneously insulting and underwhelming . Is " War of the Worlds " a good film ? That's hard to say . As I mentioned above , the setup and first few attacks in the film are great fun . The stark realism and rather gratuitous violence is a nice addition to an otherwise highly unbelievable story ; like this year's " Batman Begins , " the ideas are ridiculous , but the movie treats them as if they are not , and manages to do so without coming across as pretentious and insulting . As it is , this is an entertaining picture , and exactly the sort of film that most people will go into the theater expecting to see ? something to help pass a couple hours and overwhelm the viewer with spectacular visuals and pretty faces . But I can only imagine how much better this would have been if they had taken a risk on the ending . " War of the Worlds " could have been a masterpiece , the disaster movie of all disaster movies ? instead it's just another summer Spielberg flick , and it's disappointing to see a director of his caliber resorting to mediocrity . Spielberg has proved in the past that he's got what it takes with daring projects such as " Duel , " " Schindler's List " and " Saving Private Ryan . " This is not one of those movies .
Entertaining if not particularly memorable	So many Hong Kong style films that are released nowadays are complete crap , so it's good and somewhat refreshing to find an unpretentious , old-fashioned martial arts film in the vein of Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee . Jet Li stars as an agent in Paris who finds himself entangled in a murder conspiracy , framed for another agent's death and on the run from a French bad guy . ( I'll resist from making a joke about the French here . ) He falls under the care ( or vice versa ) of an American prostitute played by Bridget Fonda , who has lost custody of her daughter to the same French baddie . The movie is convenient - particularly the romantic ( ? ) subplot with Fonda - but nevertheless it is quite enjoyable . It has some strong action sequences , such as when Li is being pursued through Paris and ends up inside tunnels , on boats , and all sorts of other stuff . The ending is a great showdown . The N . E . R . D . song " Lap Dance " is played during one of the many final face-offs with bad guys , one of few reminders that at heart this really is an American film and not a good old-fashioned Hong Kong flick . Overall it's entertaining if not particularly memorable .
Missed Opportunities	You know when a movie boasts " and Keanu Reeves " you're in pretty big trouble . Sometimes I go with the general flow when I put down actors . For example , Adam Sandler doesn't really bother me . He was perfect for " Happy Gilmore " ( which I think is a great mindless comedy ) . But Keanu Reeves is one actor that I , personally , have never considered a great - - much less good - - actor . In " Bill and Ted " and " The Matrix " he's fine , yes , because he fits the parts given to him ( new generation slackers ) . " Speed " is one of my all-time favorite action films , but not really because of Reeves himself . The movies in which he is supposed to display true emotions - - such as " Feeling Minnesota " or " A Walk in the Clouds " - - are the ones that bother me , because I know that there are better actors putting on school plays who aren't getting paid - - yet he's raking in the millions . Many of his dramatic roles are rather dry and laughable . When it comes to real roles , Keanu just fails miserably . I'll explain why , since I'll probably get angry letters from " Matrix " fans and teenage girls with posters of him on their walls if I don't . My main problem with Reeves is that he's always the same . His face is always the same . His tone of voice . His expressions . His mannerisms . For the sake of comparison , imagine Dustin Hoffman in " Rain Man . " Now imagine Keanu Reeves trying to play Raymond Babbitt . See what I mean ? In " The Watcher , " Keanu is a serial killer who toys around with an ex-FBI Agent ( James Spader ) whose lover Keanu killed years before in a fire . ( Bad , Keanu , bad ! ) In fact , Joel Campbell ( Spader ) moved all the way to Chicago in order to escape his past , and even retired from the FBI . Now David ( Reeves ) is back in Joel's life , sending him pictures of victims a day before they are to be murdered . He has twenty-four hours to find them before David does . What a great premise . A pleasant twist on the serial killer routine , right ? Err . . . no , not really . The direction feels like a long action-packed music video - - from the opening titles blaring a loud Rob Zombie song to the end , complete with the stereotypical Killer's Point of View that was original in 1978 when John Carpenter's " Halloween " first invented it ( and when it was indeed a very controversial filmmaking technique ) , but is now getting old since it's frequently being used incorrectly , particularly in the case of " The Watcher . " Keanu's character seems to see things through some type of strobe music video vision - - perhaps that explains his love of music in the film . " This is a good song , " he says to one victim before strangling her . In all honesty , " The Watcher " isn't really a truly " bad " movie ( in fact , I've seen much worse ) , but if I had to pinpoint the problems with " The Watcher , " it would be these three things : 1 . Direction . Joe Charbanic , a first-time director with his outing in " The Watcher , " proves that he should never get behind a camera ever again . As I mentioned before , there are just too many moments when I felt that I was watching some music video or product placement commercial instead of a smart serial killer film . Some people just aren't meant to get behind the wheel of a moving car . The same goes for a moving reel of footage . 2 . The Script . What starts interesting and even compelling soon turns into a routine chase-the-killer film with extravagant car chases and bad character introductions . ( Marisa Tomei's student psychiatrist is obviously there for two reasons - - to fall in love with the hero and to be kidnapped by the villain . Take a wild guess if it happens or not . ) In fact , this film had loads of potential to stand out amongst the rest of its kind by using the original plot - - twenty-four hours to find the victim - - but it is soon left forgotten and too many plot holes ( why wouldn't the victim see herself on TV or on one of the millions of ads placed around Chicago ? ) are left unchecked . 3 . The Acting . James Spader is at the very least marginally convincing as a gruff I-Don't-Care-Anymore cop , but he's no Martin Riggs . Instead , he comes off as a whiny , selfish little creep who likes to inject drugs into his body to get a momentary high . This is are hero , folks . Also , is Keanu an invincible boogeyman or not ? Lord knows that his mysterious character , David , is untouchable - - he survives a foot chase without being seen , he manages to sneak past security cameras and cops and manages to kidnap / kill female victims ; he survives a truly ludicrous car chase ( that lowered my score for the film by a half a notch ) , gets shot , caught on fire , and STILL manages to jump out of a window on fire and into a lake ? I half expected him to get up once more and give us all one last scare . Honestly , in " Halloween , " the insinuations of Michael Myers ' invincibility were more than hinted at . Here , we are left to wonder whether or not the killer is some type of supernatural force or not . The film is too eager to wrap all the loose ends up without digging deeper into the material . Who knows , next year we could see " The Watcher II : David's Return . " Maybe David will spring back to life as a burn victim's worst nightmare and wreak havoc on the lives of very distant relations . ( Maybe we'll even see " Freddy vs . Jason vs . David . " ) What will the tagline for " The Watcher II " be ? Hmm . . . . How about , " This time . . . it's even more personal than last time . " No , thanks , I'll pass .
Good movie ; incredibly overrated	" Lord of the Rings " continues to disappoint . The entire trilogy has never had any real effect on me ; when I saw " The Return of the King " in the cinema it was the closest I came to loving the series - - the last hour was really gripping stuff . . . then the conclusion went overboard and I couldn't wait for it to end . Before I saw " RotK " I thought " The Two Towers " was going to be my favorite from the series - - it's certainly more entertaining than the first film , even if it doesn't contain as nice scenery and cinematography ( it's not as lush ) . My concerns in regards to this trilogy ( and specifically " The Two Towers " ) is that it tries too hard to be an epic , creating far too much overblown , dramatic material that fails to equate into poignancy . Case in point : I'm sure the entire trilogy contains about an hour of footage entirely of Frodo and Sam crying in each other's arms . There's a certain point where too much is simply too much and I grew weary of the constant drama-queen syndrome . Put a female's wig on Frodo and he's a transvestite . I mean , seriously . He cries more than Halle Berry at an awards show . The better parts of " The Two Towers " follow Aragorn's story , but then there's too much exposition : " I ride at dawn to Minis Tirith in search of the mighty plot MacGuffin ! " Just do it already ! Half the film is wasted because the characters tell us what they're going to do , and then we spend more time watching them do it . Once is enough . Example : " I'm going to kill that monster ! " ( Aragorn kills the monster . ) " I'm going to walk over to that cliff and pretend to jump ! " ( Aragorn walks over to the cliff and pretends to jump . ) Overall I feel this is incredibly overrated because a majority of the voters are those who are duped into buying this as the " epic of our times " when in fact there have been far better so-called " epics " made and more relatable ones , too . I found the human story of " LotR " quite weak and because Peter Jackson spends so much time exaggerating it to such overly-dramatic effect . . . it leaves a bad aftertaste . It's worth noting the only people I know who love this film are those who infrequently watch films , and / or are under the age of 13 . Just for the record .
The hype kills it . The best of the series , but not a great movie , and not in the league with the likes of " The Godfather " - - how cliched a statement is that ? It's true .	Before I review this good movie , I have to get something that's been bothering me off my chest . I went with eight people to see " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King . " All eight of them found it " good " at best . We all thought it was too long , with too many passages of dialogue explaining what was going to happen ( " I ride to Minis Tirith at dawn to face the enemies of Middle-Earth ! " - - just do it already ! ) , too many scenes that most definitely could have been cut or edited , and we all found that the ending of the film stretched on too long and we didn't need to see Frodo and Sam fondly gazing at each other ninety times before we got the idea that they have an affection for each other . ( Brotherly love or . . . something else ? ) The thing is , all the " Lord of the Rings " movies are good . But none of them are great . Filmed by Peter Jackson with an epic feeling that betrays J . R . R . Tolkien's light-hearted tale , the films try to take a somewhat light idea and turn them into epics - - a problem , since the entire world is fantasy , and it is hard to take anything in the film dreadfully serious . ( I thought it was just I , but some other critics have noted the same problem . ) This is the best " Lord of the Rings " movie . Even though it sounds as if I am complaining about them , I am not . I'm complaining about the way movie geeks flock to the cinemas and spread word that it's the " best film of all time , " then post these comments on the Internet and try to boost the film's rating on IMDb . ( Some fans have been caught in the act of making multiple usernames to do so . ) I find it almost laughable that anyone could argue that the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy is the best of all time , or that it is the better than " The Godfather " ( because that film stands as the number one film on the Internet Movie Database , there are heated debates from " Rings " fans claiming that " The Godfather " is trash and their favorite film is not ) . It's all opinion , of course , but I sometimes wonder whether the fans of " The Lord of the Rings , " those who claim they are superior to " The Godfather , " have even seen that film . I also wonder whether the strict fans that claim it is the best film ever made have actually seen enough films to qualify for that assumption - - if it is their favorite film , fine , but to say it is THE best film of all time is entirely their opinion , although they seem to take it as a fact . Have they seen the films of Fellini ? Kurosawa ? Scorsese ? Coppola ? " Citizen Kane " ? " Casablanca " ? " Taxi Driver " ? " Sweet Smell of Success " ? " To Kill a Mockingbird " ? " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " ? " Chinatown " ? " Apocalypse Now " ? " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " ? The list goes on ! Their definitions of classics range from the time of " Star Wars " to present cinema . It may sound like an old argument but it's true - - greater films are harder to find nowadays , and just because " The Lord of the Rings " seems like an achievement of some sort , it does not make it the best film of all time . I can name many better films . But , then again , it's my opinion , I suppose . Now that I'm done with my rant , there's nothing left to say . Frodo and Sam ( Elijah Wood and Sean Astin ) venture closer to Mordor to destroy The One Ring , while Gollum ( Andy Serkis ) plots to murder them both and take the Ring of Power for himself . ( We get to see Gollum's background in the film , too , which is something that will satisfy Tolkien's fans that have read the stories . ) Meanwhile , Aragorn ( Viggo Mortensen ) returns to the throne of a kingdom ( hence the title of the film ) to claim his position as heir of Isildur , but first gathers together Legolas and Gimli ( Orlando Bloom and John Rhys-Davies ) to help battle the Orcs venturing closer to their castle , along with Gandalf the White ( Ian McKellen ) , who opens a can of whoop [ butt ] in this movie . This is the darkest film of the trilogy . You may have thought " The Two Towers " was dark , but " The Return of the King " is almost evil - - Frodo gives audiences the creeps a few times . When he says , " The Ring is mine , " and grins at Sam with the Elijah Wood grin , a shiver goes down your spine . The film picks up pace starting with the giant arachnid battle , about halfway through the film , and continues down the path of mild greatness until the last twenty minutes , which never seem to end . It is as if Jackson was afraid to close his film for a final time and kept dragging the scenes out - - I don't need to see Frodo and Sam admiring each other more than twice ! As the credits rolled , the audience poured out of the theater . " Wasn't that good ? " I heard someone say . " No , " was the reply . " The Return of the King " is a very good film , and certainly the best of the trilogy , but don't be fooled by the hype - - this is not one of the best films of all time . It's a case of the Emperor's New Clothes - - some day , someone's going to realize that what they're going on about isn't really there at all . And finally all the film fans will be able to say , " Y'know , I never really loved the movie all that much anyway . " But for now , I guess we'll all have to put up with more unearned hype . I liked this movie . I liked it a lot at certain points . But I would never , ever call it great . That's just me , I guess . stars . - John Ulmer
Better than you might expect	Watching " True Identity , " I was somehow reminded of an old " Saturday Night Live " Eddie Murphy skit where he disguised himself as a white man , then walked around New York City in makeup , realizing that when no black people are around , white people like to get funky . At first I thought it was just a basic idea that bore resemblance , until two gags used in Murphy's skit were used in the film , and I started to wonder how they had ever gotten away with ripping off his materal . Then I realized that the writer of the film , Andy Breckman , used to write for " SNL , " and that the film was an unofficial spin-off of Murphy's skit . The problem with " SNL " spin-offs is that they take a successful five-minute paper-thin gag and stretch it out to full length . Mary Katherine Gallagher was never very funny , but her skits were watchable ; whoever decided to put her oddball , unlikable character into a movie was nuts . Luckily , even though it is far from being a great motion picture , " True Identity " has its fair share of good moments , which include British comedian Lenny Henry getting to dress up as a white guy and pose as an Italian-American mobster hit-man , then posing as James Brown's brother . ( One of Murphy's trademark characters on " SNL " was his impersonation of James Brown in " James Brown's Hot Tub . " ) Miles Pope is an aspiring actor living in the big city with hopes of becoming the lead in " Othello . " When he boards a plane , he finds himself seated next to a strange man named Leland Carver . When the plane starts to plummet , Carver ( played by Frank Langella ) admits that he used to be a criminal , who was believed to have died in an explosion , but in reality survived , had facial alterations , and " spent thousands setting up a new identity . " Of course , the plane then regains itself , leaving Miles with the knowledge that he will probably be chased by the gangster's hit men . So his only option is to disguise himself as a white man . This is essentially a very weak setup , with a truly ridiculous and contrived plot ( like a mobster would admit his real persona for no reason whatsoever ) . But the movie does have a fair amount of fun , and a few good belly laughs , including the opening scene . " You need to get to your roots , " a director of a play tells Miles . " Act more black . " " But black people don't act like this anymore ! " Miles says . The director doesn't care , so Miles tries to portray a stereotypical black man . The result is very funny . The film , as a whole , is completely harmless and serves its purpose . It's entertaining , with a silly plot but a good amount of funny scenes . Henry is able to show off how good he is at comedy while we are entertained . And for the record , his " white man makeup " was much more convincing than Murphy's .
Watchable , slightly entertaining , but overall nothing memorable	I originally saw " Space Cowboys " when it was released in 2000 and really didn't like it at all . It bored me to death and although I watched the whole thing , I often felt the urge to switch on something else . Well , I watched it again last week and found myself more entertained ( perhaps because I was expecting too much the first time around ) . The cast is excellent and that's what attracted me to it the first time : Clint Eastwood , Tommy Lee Jones , Donald Sutherland and James Garner . It's the " Freddy vs . Jason " or " Alien vs . Predator " for adults - - veteran cinema icons pairing up and kicking butt . ( Well , sort of . ) " Space Cowboys " is about a team of ex-NASA astronauts who designed a special space satellite ; when it goes haywire , they are the only ones who can fix it , so they're re-trained and sent off into space . The only problem is that they're all retired and in their ' 60s now . " Space Cowboys " is a movie for older audiences , for sure . It will appeal mainly to those who grew up on Eastwood et al and are familiar with the actors ' work . I liked the acting , I liked some of the training scenes , but towards the end it just gets to be too much ; an entertaining movie , but not particularly memorable . Worth watching once .
Nothing more than a passable sword-and-sorcery popcorn flick . . .	I'm glad that the sword-and-sorcery flicks aren't made anymore . The craze died out before they got to be as miserable as some other genres . In case you need a reminder of just how bad most of them were , think back a few years . Films such as " Red Sonja " and " The Blade Master " are ill memories best left forgotten . Even " Conan the Barbarian " was not for my tastes - - even though I'm a big fan of Arnie Schwarzenegger . And so I come to " Highlander , " the 1986 film starring Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery as immortal warriors who inherit the earth and are always alive , left to battle each other to gain extra super-power ( think Mario power-ups and you've got the idea ) . Lambert's character has been around since the 1500s . Connery's since sometime around 300 A . D . , give or take a few hundred / thousand years . Although it's not a great film , " Highlander " certainly ranks as one of the better sword-and-sorcery flicks , solely because it has a few unique ideas ( immortal man living throughout the ages ) , good battle scenes , and a fairly interesting - - or at least amusing - - story . The story is that of a man who must cope with battling immortals and the emotional task of eternal life , and this entire idea sorta reminded me of the Tom Cruise / Brat Pitt flick " Interview with the Vampire " ; at least as far as the central theme - - a guy who can't die whose story is not one filled with highlights , but rather bitter moments . The film opens up in a car park outside of a wrestling tournament . Lambert battles a very flexible and energetic old fogie , slices his head off , and is arrested by cops and held suspect for murder . The thing is , the sword he sliced the guy's head off with dates back to a year when such swords weren't even made . How can this be ? ( Answer : Who cares ? ) A nosy female reporter ( Roxanne Hart ) gets involved in this business , since she runs an on-the-side profession of being a professional sword historian ( naturally ) and is ( naturally ) interested by such strange occurences . As she investigates into the sword's background , she ( naturally ) unlocks Nash's ( Lambert ) past , realizing that he is one of a select few immortals who battle for complete domination by killing each other off and therefore gaining more power . Naturally . The film's bad guy , Kruger ( Clancy Brown , who now voices cartoon shows like " Spongebob Squarepants " ) , has been in a bitter feud with Nash for years , dating back to when Nash's name used to be MacLeod , and he was a Scottish war hero . ( Think " Braveheart , " minus the epic scale . ) Anyway , they're still at it , and Nash / MacLeod is even angrier at Kruger since he killed his mentor , Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez ( Connery ) years ago . But his spirit lives on . I think , anyway . Really corny , and really campy , the film rips off everything in sight - - particularly " The Terminator , " released two years prior to the film , and " Conan the Barbarian , " both films of course starring The Austrian Oak himself , who would have been more believable as a Scottish war hero than Lambert ever would be . The villain , Kruger , is set on Arnie Mode , particularly in scenes such as the one where he walks into a motel , with techno music pounding in the background like a heartbeat , his eyes scanning the room like a machine . ( All the while being filmed in what I saw as a James Cameron Style . ) Then he grabs the owner of the fine ( and by that I mean absolutely horrid ) establishment by the shirt and tells him , " Never speak to me . " ( And the obvious references to " Conan " are everywhere - - from the filming style of the flashbacks to the swordfight scenes . ) But I'm having what the Scots might call a " wee bit " of fun here . The movie isn't all that bad - - as long as you aren't expecting something more than passable popcorn entertainment . ( In light of the sequels and rip-offs , however , this film indeed looks like a classic in comparison . ) " Highlander " inspired an uncountable number of sequels ( Sean Connery returned for only one ) , a television show in 1992 , and lots of really , really bad straight-to-video films starring Christopher Lambert . All of this said , considering the sole source of the material , I don't see what all the extreme fuss is . But it is a lot better than " Police Academy " ; I'll give it that much . And at least it didn't spawn six lousy sequels . Yet . stars . - John Ulmer
I finally found it	I saw this movie years ago in England and it's been stuck in my mind ever since . I was a lot younger then and didn't really understand all of what was going on . I finally found the film again recently by doing a plot search and I have to say , it hasn't exactly held up . McCarthy is kind of a weak leading man . Kim Cattrall is pretty sexy as the mannequin-turned-woman but still isn't drop-dead gorgeous . Estelle Getty ( who I also just saw in " Stop ! Or My Mom Will Shoot " ) is given little to do but provides a bit of comic relief . The ending is a bit too over-the-top . It's a cute movie but not something I'd really want to watch very often or own - nostalgia is in fact preventing me from even giving it a lower rating than I am .
Fun ride in IMAX - wouldn't necessarily want to see it again though	" The Polar Express " is an odd little hybrid of computer animation and live action - professional cast was assorted ( including Tom Hanks , Michael Jeter and Steven Tyler ) , they acted out their parts with motion sensor captures recording their movements , and then did voice-overs . Hanks plays about four different characters , both visually and vocal - The Conducter , Father , The Bum , Santa Claus and five if you count the adult Hero Boy . Director Robert Zemeckis has always liked to fool around with the expansion of cinema ( check out his other famous animation hybrid , the great " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " ) , here he probably goes a bit too far but it's nevertheless a fun ride . As a piece of experimental cinema " The Polar Express " is breathtaking , as a standard Christmas animation film it's so-so - the story is very entertaining for the first 60 minutes but once they get off the train it goes on a bit too long . Animation is excellent at times , but then sometimes ( particularly on the Hero Girl character ) it's quite poor and unrealistic . But for the most part it is a very interesting film and a must-see if you're a daring viewer - it's different , in a good way . It's not a great movie because it has a lot of flaws but I saw it at London BFI IMAX theater and the trip was loads of fun , and a unique experience I'll remember for a long , long time . Overall , not something particularly memorable as a stand-alone film but if you're planning on seeing it , make sure you go to an IMAX - otherwise it's just an odd little film that'll entertain the kids and probably hold your interest on first viewing .
Not great , but good for what it is : an entertaining romantic comedy .	This movie is interesting and unique , in the sense that it focuses on love AFTER marriage , and not before . Billy Crystal plays a basketball referee who travels to Paris in order to bury his recently-deceased father . However alone the way the casket is lost and he's stuck in Paris , where he meets another single woman ( Debra Winger ) who's under similarly unfortunate circumstances . They go out , have a fun time , and then resume their normal lives . Crystal goes back to basketball in the US but soon finds he can't concentrate and keeps thinking about his relationship . Eventually they reunite and get married but it's an uphill struggle . The movie kind of reminded me of " GoodFellas " ( ! ) due to its structure and how it focused on the downfall of the marriage . Like Ray Liotta's marriage in " GoodFellas " it's not all peachy like most Hollywood films portray them as being . My favorite sequence is when Crystal is transporting his semen to a hospital and gets stopped by a traffic cop . Some very funny moments like this , as well as good chemistry between the stars and an interesting narrative structure , make it a worthwhile - if not particularly memorable - romantic comedy , better than many others in its genre . At least it's entertaining and believable .
I'm glad Rodriguez took Tarantino's advice ( he suggested the title ) . . .	The story behind the title of " Once Upon a Time in America " has almost become infamous by now , but I'll explain it to those readers who may not know already . Robert Rodriguez , who rose to fame with " El Mariachi , " was trying to think of an appropriate title for the final installment in his Mariachi trilogy . Quentin Tarantino ( " Pulp Fiction " ) recommended the title " Once Upon a Time in Mexico . " Why ? His favorite director , Sergio Leone , the man who inspired him to make films in the first place , crafted a little film once called " Once Upon a Time in the West , " not to mention his final motion picture , " Once Upon a Time in America , " which is one of the best films ever , and certainly a terrific gangster film by any account . And so here we have it , " Once Upon a Time in Mexico , " the long-awaited ending of the Mariachi trilogy . The film is the ultimate spaghetti western tribute , shot like one of Sergio's old low-budget movies . It cost $32 million more than his second El Mariachi film , " Desperado , " but it's still a pretty low budget compared to most action films on the market . The most admirable thing about this film is its style . It looks great ! It was " chopped , shot and scored " the film , as the unconventional credits inform us , using a Sony 24-fps digital Hi-Definition camera . Great ! The film perfectly catches the bleak , dry outlook on Mexico - - and it is , along with the extravagant , overblown special effects , the best aspect of the film . The plot isn't . It takes a lot of twists and turns , but I couldn't care less , since I was lost in the first ten minutes . This film moves like a bullet - - blunt , fast , and furious , and it certainly doesn't take its time to accentuate the elements of the plot . Rodriguez has never been one for a good plot . He likes things over the top and fast , with awkward cuts , but it's popcorn movie heaven for any person who wants to just sit back , relax , and have a good time . I'll try to explain the plot as best I can , but it'll be hard . Here we go . . . CIA Agent Sands ( Johnny Depp ) is trying to prevent the assassination of the Mexican " presidente , " and so he enlists El ( Antonio Banderas ) to kill Barillo ( Willem Dafoe all greased up like a Mexican ) . Only Sands is a corrupt agent - - his real intention is to get his hands on some dough left over by Barillo after he dies . Plot twists upon plot twists amount , and there were so many that I had trouble following the film . The screen I viewed it on was bleak and dark , but the digital camera's effects could still be made out , and that was really the thing that kept my interest . There was a particular scene where Agent Sands walked into the back kitchen of a restaraunt and put a bullet in the chef's head that felt like it was shot on a home video camera - - a trace of fake blood even remained on the camera after the cook went down . Stuff like this is a new kind of mainstream filmmaking , and the ultimate " fun movie , " so to speak . Don't get me wrong . Rodriguez is a long way from making a coherent or important motion picture like Tarantino and Leone , but he is the master of popcorn movies , having made little treats like " Spy Kids " and such films by the age of 35 . He even wrote a script for " Predator 3 , " which never got made , and I'm sort of glad - - he would have made it into an overblown action fest like " Predator 2 , " which was a disappointing enough entry into the series . But now they've got Paul W . S . Anderson ressurecting both " Alien " and " Predator " series together , based on the videogame and comic book series , which makes me think I would have preferred Rodriguez in the first place . The point is , his films aren't majestic or nearly as smart as they could be . But they're fun , fast , brutal , blunt , cool . Depp , as Agent Sands , is on a winning streak , while support from Mickey Rourke , Danny Trejo , Cheech Marin , Ruben Blades and Eva Mendes provides plenty of celebrity appeal - - oh , and there are flashbacks of El's dead wife ( Salma Hayek ) , who is credited above Johnny Depp and smacked on the front of the film posters in , I can only assume , an effort to attract male audience members as an added bonus . ( Robert Rodriguez picture ? Depp with a machine gun ? Overblown action sets ? Salma Hayek ? Popcorn movie heaven ! ) Depp has been around since " A Nightmare on Elm Street , " and with 2003's " Pirates of the Caribbean " he finally broke into the mainstream ( cult films by Tim Burton have mainly been his resume so far ) . The thing is , we rarely see Depp himself on-screen - - in " Edward Scissorhands " he was the social outcast , quiet and disturbed , muttering only a handful of lines . In " Ed Wood " he was channeling the Worst Director of All Time . In " Sleepy Hollow " he was putting on the olden days act , and in " Pirates of the Caribbean " he was the drunken British pirate . Depp is rarely actually Depp . Even in " Nick of Time " he was the silent businessman , very out of character from his very suave self . Here Johnny gets to finally have loads of fun , be his cool self , and show off his flair for action films . He's both the comic relief and the guy you wish would get a role as an action hero some day . I didn't leave " Once Upon a Time in Mexico " with any strong feelings towards the film , and it seemed a bit too long and fast for its own good , but it certainly looks great and is fun to watch . This is an unpretentious action film with great style and execution . Oh , and Depp is still the man . Somebody get this guy a John McClane , and hurry up already . stars . - John Ulmer
Entertaining enough , nothing great	" Happy , Texas " is an entertaining enough comedy about a couple of crooks who escape jail and find themselves inadvertently stuck in Happy , Texas - where they must pose as two gay men in order to divert attention from their true identities . This sounds like a rude and raunchy comedy but it's well-delivered and surprisingly tasteless . William H . Macy gives the performance highlight as the closet homosexual police officer . Reminded me a bit of his performance in " Cellular , " only . . . more flamboyant . This is a funny film with some good performances . If you don't like gay stereotypes as humor , then look elsewhere - otherwise if you have an open mind and aren't easily offended it's pretty entertaining . I enjoyed it anyway .
A sweet and likable romantic comedy .	A certain someone I know considers " Serendipity " her favorite movie , and although it's not one of my favorites it is far better than I ever expected , thanks mostly to its strong cast : John Cusack , Kate Beckinsale and a very funny small turn by Eugene Levy . Pretty much a story of fate and how Cusack's character goes crazy searching for a woman he met one night . It's all about fate and once in a lifetime happening twice . This is definitely a romantic comedy i . e . it's a chick flick , but it's one of the better ones out there and most men would probably be able to enjoy it ( almost ) as much . Overall I was surprised by how entertaining it was and it has a fair amount of very funny jokes . It's not John Cusack's best comedy ( see : " High Fidelity " ) but it's one of his better attempts at playing a typical Nice Guy role in a romantic comedy - better than " American Sweethearts " , anyway .
I admire the effort and enjoyed it more the second time , but I still have some reservations .	I submitted an unfair review of this film about a week ago to IMDb . The movie's director , Aaron Howland , actually contacted me about it . I made some allegations about " false voting " because the movie's rating was about ( or something in that region ) and featured two 10-star reviews by authors who hadn't been active on the site since submitting their comments . I said some things I shouldn't have and was corrected by Mr . Howland . It turns out that the reason the movie had so many positive votes is because people who are part of their e-mail list were notified of the movie's entry on IMDb and , as a result , came here and voted for the film as fans would typically do . And it turns out that - to the best of my knowledge - Mr . Mann didn't do much vote boosting here either . Anyway , I appreciated Mr . Howland's comments and decided to give this film another chance . I still have some reservations about it , but this time when watching it I guess I didn't have as much of a prejudice against it from the start and wasn't as hard on it . It's a low-budget independent flick so it would be stupid to criticize it on the level of a mainstream production . Its humor , as I said in my original review , is a bit basic in some portions , but that may appeal to others more so than myself - and I'll admit it was funnier the second time around . My one complaint I still hold is that the gag reel at the end probably goes on a bit too long . Usually I enjoy a gag reel during credits of movies like " Rush Hour , " but sometimes - such as the ten minute + gag reel at the end of " The Master of Disguise " - they just go on too long . . . especially if the movie is short to begin with . I understand that Mr . Howland probably had a good portion of material he thought was funny - outtakes from the production - but this may not appeal as much to people who were not involved with the production of the film . Of course , I could be wrong and someone else may find it completely hilarious . I suppose humor is really in the eye of the beholder . . . or something like that . The acting isn't bad considering its roots as a non-mainstream picture with a mostly unrecognizable cast . There are some clever jokes - more so in the middle than the beginning or end . I can't find it in myself to lie and say I thought this was very good - I think some jokes fall a bit flat and the general structure is a bit sloppy at times - but then again I am going to be harder on movies because I've been criticizing them on this site for a few years now . What I appreciate is the cast and crew's apparent enthusiasm for film-making , and as an occasional filmmaker myself who has made a few short features and a documentary film I know how hard it can be to work with limited equipment and supplies . All considered , I'd give this a slight recommendation for people who are tolerable of independent features . I see some potential and wish Mr . Howland the best of success in the future , because I think if he takes the better aspects of this movie and makes another , using them to his advantage , the result would probably be a bit more consistent .
Entertaining , but the premise has been worn thin - - it's sweet , but unnecessary .	The original " Father of the Bride " with Spencer Tracey is a really good comedy , the remake starring Steve Martin is a good sweet-natured , amiable enough comedy - and I don't really think a sequel was necessary at all . I mean the whole premise is basically the same - before George Banks ( Martin ) had to grasp the reality of his daughter being married , and now he has to come to grips with the fact that she's having a baby . A nice twist on this is that his wife ( played by Diane Keaton ) is ALSO pregnant , but nevertheless it's still ( basically ) the same as the first film in one form or another . Thankfully it doesn't seem like a total cash-in ( like so many sequels of this sort do ) because it has a certain charm ( as did the first film ) and is still remarkably entertaining , all considered . But you can tell it was made solely because of the success of the first film - even Martin Short is back with another extended cameo as Franz the wedding manager . Of course you may be wondering why he's involved with a pregnancy , since his business is weddings . Here's a hint : more $$$ for the studio . Martin is basically doing the same thing he did in the first film - the weary upper-class guy who feels overwhelmed by the state of things . Diane Keaton is still very sweet and likable as his wife . The rest of the cast ( including Macaulay's little brother Kieran Culkin ) range from OK to good . Martin Short , however , is yet again a stand-out and is very funny - he wasn't necessary for the plot but he is funny and a good addition to the movie regardless . Overall I'd say this is one of those sequels that didn't need to be made , but could have been a lot worse . It's sweet , it's got some good lite-comedy moments , and in general it's just an enjoyable family movie that isn't trying to be anything other than simple entertainment - - which it is .
Well , entertaining - especially for kids - even if it's not particularly worthwhile	Out of the sky it came , like a spaceship itself . I remember the ads for it . I remembering thinking it had a great cast and great potential in this time of lousy Disney films . And then it landed on earth in the form of a movie . " My Favorite Martian " . I waited till it came out on video , rented it , and watched it . And then it was over . I wasn't exactly disappointed , but I was a bit let down . It has a lot of talent , a lot of material , and an okay outcome . It took some heat upon its release , but it really wasn't that bad . It was a bit less than I expected , but it was still entertaining . It stars Jeff Daniels ( ' ' Dumb and Dumber ' ' ) , as a TV producer named Tim O'Hara . One day he views a space ship come out of the atmosphere and watches it crash in front of him . As he investigates , a martian appears . The martian ( Christopher " Doc Brown " Lloyd ) assumes the name Uncle Martin ( get it , " Martin , " " Martian " ? ) . Tim takes Uncle Martin and his space suit , named Zoot , ( which / who becomes a character itself / himself / herself ) back to his home . But what Tim doesn't know is that Uncle Martin and Zoot are capable of instant shape-shifting , and depending on what color of extraterrestrial gumball they're chewing , Martin ( and the humans ) can turn into a variety of monsters . This film could seriously boost the sales of chewing gum to young children , preferably young boys between the ages of 6-12 . But back on subject now . . . Along with this tale ( loosely based on the 1960s television show by the same name ) is a sappy love story . Tim is in love with a reporter named Brace ( Elizabeth Hurley ) . The romance is put on hold at separate times during the film , and so we never truly get a handle on the whole bit . Tim is in love with Brace one moment , Lizzie ( Daryl Hannah ) , his technician , the next moment . Call it romance . Call it love . Call it manipulating the audience . The villains are all government scientists , led by Coleye ( as in " e . coli " ) , a government-something-or-other who is seemingly mystified and obsesses with martians . Coleye is played by Wallace Shawn , whose film credits include " The Princess Bride " and " Toy Story . " I've always admired him on-screen because he is a small screen presence , yet at the same time a strong one . He rarely plays a leading man , and in the rare ocassion he does , the film is a flop ( see a film of his where his kid rents a new father ) . Wallace Shawn is one of the most underrated yet distinguished co-stars out there , and he demands just as much credit as the other actors on board , since he does very well with his character , who chases Tim and ' ' Uncle Martin ' ' because he wants to prove there is intelligent life on other planets . Uncle Martin , on the other hand , only wants to lay low , be friends with Tim and Lizzie , repair his spaceship and go home . Then he discovers ice cream , and all he wants to do is eat ice cream . ( The side effects of ice cream are like alcohol to our bodies ; Uncle Martin runs around and wrecks the ice cream shop , completely intoxicated . Must be the sugar-rush in the vanilla and chocolate . ) In fact , the scene where Martin wrecks the ice cream shop was shown many times on the TV spots and trailers , and it made the film look more promising than the outcome . There are some good moments in ' ' My Favorite Martian , ' ' including the ice cream shop segment . It looks as if everyone who made this film had a lot of fun . Christopher Lloyd and Jeff Daniels are cheery and happy the whole way through , which may be a good enough reason to see this film . But as I watch it , I can't help but compare it to other family films I've seen that are so many times more compelling , interesting and smart than " My Favorite Martian . " But if you are looking for pure entertainment . . . you've found it .
A good , clean family film . . .	Far from Home - The Adventures of Yellow DogDespite a rather ridiculous title ( " The Adventures of Yellow Dog " ? ) , this winning tale of a 14-year-old boy's bond with a yellow lab will warm your heart . Okay , I'm lying - - but it will entertain the kiddies . It's a children's version of " Cast Away " after Jesse Bradford is stranded in a Canadian wilderness with his pet dog , left with only a few items for survival . Really , it's not as bad as it sounds . 1995 , PG ( violence ) . /
Extremely Overrated Mediocrity . . .	Surprisingly overrated Steven Spielberg film about an alien from outer space who stumbles upon a typical Steven Spielberg 80s urban family : The kids know everything and the adults are the bad guys , because they know nothing and aren't in touch with their " feelings . " This kids-are-smarter technique worked in a Spielberg-produced film called " The Goonies , " but it doesn't work here . Tries to be cute but comes off sickening and sappy . Yuck . Followed by countless rip-offs including " Mac and Me . " stars - John Ulmer
It works better than most of the " SNL " comedies because it's a knowing and sarcastic film that hates itself .	Whereas his contemporary , Adam Sandler , had made a career out of enjoying himself in stupid comedies like this , Norm MacDonald approaches his film debut - " Dirty Work " - with a dry sense of irony and self-awareness : he knows the film sucks . He knows the plot is nonsense . He knows the love interest is a throwaway mandatory subplot . He knows the dialogue is terrible , terrible stuff . And he knows he can't act . He doesn't care . And so in a way this is a very subversive genre film , because it takes the then-popular SNL-actor-adaptation formula of flicks such as " Happy Gilmore " and " Billy Madison " ( which , at the time , before " Superstar " and " Night at the Roxbury " ended the fashion , was a guaranteed-profit machine ) and just basically makes fun of it for 82 minutes . Yes , Sandler and other SNL actors make brief cameos but this is better than most of the typical SNL films . ( Off the top of my head , I think only " Happy Gilmore " really works as well , and not for the same reasons . ) Maybe I'm prejudiced in the film's favor because I love Norm MacDonald . I think he's one of the most hilarious men to ever grace the earth . But he's funnier with on-the-spot , unrehearsed stuff . ( As evidenced by his appearance on Conan a few years ago , which Conan in retrospect claimed was the funniest interview he'd ever done . ) He often appears on talk shows acting completely drunk , stoned , and out of his mind . At first it appears that he's just rambling , but it's a carefully practiced style of comedy and you either love it or hate it . I love it . His acerbic wit propels " Dirty Work . " It's just fun watching him , even though once the film's over it's very clear why he never made it as a major film star : he doesn't have the same qualities as Sandler . He isn't content with making garbage and trying to pass it off as good comedy . He hates the formula and , in fact , commercials for " Dirty Work " were banned by NBC after Norm was deemed " not funny " by the vice president of NBC at the time ( who fired Norm from the Weekend Updates ) . Don't misunderstand me . This movie's not that great . And Norm is out of place - visibly so . But this is what makes it work . The prison sex scene is treated so nonchalantly and with such self-mockery that you just know these guys were making fun of this movie the whole time . Artie Lange , Don Rickles , Jack Warden , and Chevy Chase in one of his few truly funny film roles . And it's directed by Bob Saget for goodness sake . Sarcastic , self-loathing , acerbic , witty , brutal , and consumed by hatred . Not your typical Saturday Night Live movie . And I'm glad it didn't turn a profit because I'd hate to have to see Norm MacDonald stuck pretending to enjoy doing this for a living . Watching him show up on the " Daily Show " stirring controversy is a lot more fun and more in-tune with what he's all about . He's misunderstood but the public have a pretty good record of popularizing talentless people .
Recycled and not very funny , but entertaining enough if you're in the right mood	I had low hopes for this film . It's directed by Shawn Levy , one of the worst directors of all time . It stars Ashton Kutcher and Brittany Murphy , both of whom can't really act and are only in films now because of their social / celebrity status . Nevertheless I was surprised because despite some really hideous reviews and bad promos , the movie isn't awful . As a means of silly entertainment , it's sweet , good-natured and occasionally funny , even if all the gags are recycled from other flicks . I counted quite a few . The first fifteen minutes alone have : - Last regrets before the wedding ( e . g . bride feels bad about keeping secrets from future husband , etc . ) - Groom picks up bride to be romantic , ends up slapping her head against the door frame ( also see . . . any other movie about newly married couples ) - They try to have sex on an airplane , get limb ( s ) stuck in the toilet ( also see " Vegas Vacation , " which was a scene recycled from other films to begin with ) - Mean airline stewardesses ( also see " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " and " Meet the Parents " and " Midnight Run " and . . . ) - Mix-up at the rental agency in terms of car / transportation , they end up with a lesser car ( ripped right off of the aforementioned " P , T & A " ) - Get stuck in snow ( " PT & A " again ! ) And so on and so forth . . . Some of the gags are too crude and shouldn't be included - the pathetic joke about the vibrator as a honeymoon present is unnecessary . Sticking it into the wrong electrical current outlet is a good payoff , but I was expecting it to be handled funnier . It's a bit anti-climactic . Overall this is an " embarrassing situation " comedy where lots and lots of bad stuff happens to people minding their own business . It's kind of like " Meet the Parents " - events continually spiralling out of control , bad luck for good people - but not as funny or well-developed . The characters are likable which helps out a lot . The direction isn't as bad as I expected . But the script could have used polishing and the whole premise has been dealt with before . As a means of simple 90-minute entertainment , you could do a lot , lot worse ( trust me ! ) . But I'm just hoping they don't make another one . ( I can see it now : " Just Parents , " " Just Grandparents , " " Just Divorced " and then " Just Deceased . " )
Okay western - better than I expected it would be	This is an entertaining film , and it was a lot better than I expected it to be , given the negative reviews and poor box office returns . Taking place during the 1800s , a woman ( Cate Blanchett ) finds her boyfriend murdered and her children gone - presumably kidnapped by Indians . She enlists the help of her estranged father - a wilderness tracker - to help her track down the children . This movie was unfairly criticized in many regards . I'm not generally the biggest fan of Ron Howard's directorial career , but this entertained me . Jones is well-cast , as is Blanchett . The entire cast is strong , and Val Kilmer even turns up in a surprisingly minuscule co-star role .
A very nice surprise	I recently saw LIFE on tv for the first time and I must say I was impressed and most of all SURPRISED . I expected a very rude , crude kind of humor from such " bad boy " actors like Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence-famous for their constant foul mouthing . But LIFE was more of a comedy-drama , that had some very nice sequences , and thankfully was not filled with innuendos , and such . I do know the film has swearing , even though I saw it on tv I can always tell when they're cutting language out of a film , but it still is not as much as one would expect . If you want to have a fun night watching a good film , rent Life . Even if you're not fans of Murphy and Lawrence ( which I can't say I am ) you will still have a good time . It has an uplifting ending . LIFE believe it or not , is just one of those heart-warming comedy films . Enjoy ! stars JOHN ULMER
One of the larger disappointments of 2004 .	I'm not going to slam " Sideways " like some of the so-called " trolls " of this site have ( particularly on the message board ) . I understand the point of this film and I " get it . " Unfortunately , I found it fairly disappointing for a number of reasons . I'll try to explain my thoughts reasonably without resorting to the hatred some people seem to express for " Sideways . " First of all , the road-buddy genre is one of my favorites . In fact any sort of character-oriented , introspective-themed film that features a couple of people just talking together , intelligently , I find naturally engaging . This can range from experimental , theatre-esquire motion pictures such as " Tape " ( which is constrained to a single room for its entire duration and focuses on a triangle of people ) to the broader comedies such as Martin Brest's " Midnight Run " ( 1988 ) , starring Robert De Niro and Charles Grodin . So when I heard that " Sideways " was coming out , I was enthralled , because its plot described my ideal film - - a road " comedy " with bittersweet drama and realistic , flawed characters . I couldn't wait . And when I found out that Alexander Payne was directing it , and it had garnered ( at one point in time ) 100 % positive reviews on RottenTomatoes . com , I was even more excited . On top of that the cast were all fairly unknown - - the underrated character actor Paul Giamatti ( our generation's Peter Lorre ) being given top billing ? Hurray ! Because of this I never expected the movie to become the sensation it has become . In particular it seems this film is the rare sort of motion picture that appeals more to adults than it does teenagers . The filmmakers did not resort to toning down the material ( language and sexuality , and therefore the flaws of the characters ) in an effort to gain a PG-13 and cater to the marketable demographics . As a result this does appeal to a very strict range of people in general - - probably mostly middle-aged white middle-to-upper-class Americans who can relate to the characters of Miles ( Giamatti ) and Jack ( Thomas Hayden Church ) . This is like an alternate version of " About Schmidt " - - a mid-life crisis , set on the road , focusing on the flaws of humans . It's a testament to Payne's skills as a director that he manages to make the material still seem original . This is very different from " About Schmidt " and yet eerily concurrent . My disappointment in " Sideways " is that it is a great deal less mature and intelligent than I had expected . For an R-rated picture , yes , it remains quite " rough " ( frequent language , nudity , sexual cantor ) - - but not in a good way . My example is the character of Jack . Although I found Church very funny as Jack , and laughed many times at his jokes and blunt attitude , I found the character himself to be cruel and unlikeable for most of the duration . I expected the ending to expose a revelation of some sort , but it never came around . He uses Miles and their friendship to his advantage many times , as well as using women and treating them as sexual objects continuously . I hope I don't sound prudish . It's just that in a film as serious as " Sideways , " and a film that relies on characters as its support braces , we need characters we can feel empathy for . Realistic characters . Other films of this genre have weak characters , but at their core they remain empathetic . Not here . At Jack's core , he's a sexually excited jerk with no likable traits . He seems like a fake comical caricature of a real human being . Not very impressive . Likewise , Miles ( Gimatti ) whines so very much throughout the film that it's hard to feel sorry for him - - he comes across as the self-pitying jerk rather than the shy , troubled , likable character he should have been . Payne is a great director , one of the best out there . ( Think of Wes Anderson minus some of the cheap sentimentalism inherent in most of his recent films . ) And I loved " About Schmidt " not only because it was well made but because I felt sympathy for the Jack Nicholson character . But I did not like " Election " for the same reason that I do not like " Sideways " too terribly much - - the characters are unlikable . As I earlier compared this to " Schmidt , " I must also compare its lesser traits to " Election , " not only via the characters but through its use of absurd dark comedy . ( Another thing I disliked . ) " Election " and " Sideways " both start out as realistic character studies and become quite over-the-top towards their conclusions . ( In " Sideways , " the scene in which Miles retrieves Jack's wallet was the solidification of this as far as I am concerned . ) Don't get me wrong . I liked " Sideways . " At two hours , it kept me entertained . But I feel it is being given unfair praise - - it isn't deserving of the critical joy it is receiving . The humor is too broad at times , the characters are unlikeable ( occassionally despicable ) , and the film - - like Miles himself - - wallows in its own self-pity to such an extent that it passes over the important things . I expected some heavy dialogue , some great character-driven moments between the two lead characters , and I got very little . On top of that , Payne seems to be remaking two of his earlier films by mixing them in a blender and adding a few new elements . I would recommend " Sideways , " but also say that as someone who loves this particular genre and style of film-making , and hearing so much and expecting to be blown away , I was quite disappointed and , in the end , left a bit cold . .
Interesting spin on the tale , if not particularly memorable	" From Hell " is an interesting spin on the familiar Jack the Ripper tale , using the iconic cultural image of the cloaked man with the top hat as the source for a spin-off not of history , but of a graphic novel . The lead performance by Johnny Depp as Inspector Abberline ( who really existed in 1888 at the time of the murders and really was an authority on the case ) is wonderful . Depp nails the cockney accent perfectly . Unfortunately , Heather Graham - - as the prostitute Mary Kelley - - is not as fortunate . Although her accent seems to improve throughout the film at various intervals , for most of " From Hell's " duration her British voice is quite stiff and the American twang is audible . The Hughes Brothers did not choose Graham for her acting abilities . That said , the set design on this production is magnificent . 1880s London is brought to life and Whitechapel has never looked more realistic . The film is an odd hybrid of genres because it maintains the look and feel of a slasher film whilst presenting historical elements and painstaking recreations of actual murders . Robbie Coltrane , as one of the police officers involved in the case , has a lot of fun with his character and is fun to watch , and similarly as convincing as the scenery . This is a very gritty and gory film - - more so than I ever expected . It's quite a strange beast with hallucinogenic visuals , horror elements and history thrown in for good measure , on top of some slightly modernized techniques . All in all this film kept me entertained because it was unique , and very different , and not particularly because it was " great . " I didn't expect a whole lot , but I felt that the movie was directed as ably as it could ( or should ) have been and the performance by Johnny Depp was deserving of a better film . The ending got a bit carried away , but it still presents a pretty cool twist on the whole Jack the Ripper scenario without totally insulting the intelligence or even upsetting one's sense of history . ( Like Disney's " Pocahontas . " ) The respect the filmmakers have for their material shines through and elevates this above what it could have been . Definitely worth seeing , if only for its originality .
Good potential and you may enjoy it if you appreciate dark humor , but some of it is simply too childish	Some of " Death Smoochy " actually falls victim to its own parody - the realm of children's entertainment . As painfully obvious parallels for Barney the Dinosaur , Rainbow " Randolph " ( Robin Williams ) and Smoochy ( Edward Norton ) both appear to be larger-than-life caricatures living in a fantasy world of absurdist proportions . In some ways , it's brilliant . In others , less so . The crazy and frenetic direction work - including the dark cinematography , awkward angles and filming styles and so on and so forth - all contribute to a final product that is , for lack of a better word , " sloppy . " And this is part of Danny DeVito's point - he's TRYING to make it crazy . . . one might argue that it is TOO crazy , though . The " satire " - parodying the whole Barney / Teletubbies craze is more than a simple premise - it doesn't just poke fun at them , it offers a unique concept : What if the world's most popular children's entertainer was arrested for blackmail and extortion and it ruined his career ? What if an aspiring , innocent young man took his place and became an object of hatred for the original children's performer ? Some of DeVito's content is pretty much brilliant - and if it were more even , " Death to Smoochy " might have been one of the best parodies of all time - mean , vicious , frank , honest , sarcastic , whimsical , well-acted , and biting . But it comes in short bursts . A lot of the time the film is overwhelmed by crude gags that aren't really necessary to the plot or overall humor . Yes , it's an " adult " film . We get it , it's rated R . Now , let's move on . The acting is good - a lot of people criticized Williams and Norton but I think they both do well . Bizarre ? Yes . But this is a bizarre movie . Overall it would be a great deal better if they had maintained the hard edge throughout minus the . . . childish gags , which I suppose is kind of ironic in itself . This is a curious little picture .
" Awakenings " Redux	I saw this film on AMC and part way through it , I felt as if I had seen it before . Then I realized I was thinking of the 1990 Penny Marshall film " Awakenings , " starring Robin Williams and Robert De Niro . " At First Sight " is a true story about a blind man who temporarily regains his sight , then goes blind again . " Awakenings " was about a comatose man who woke up temporarily , then slid back into a comatose . Oh , and by the way , they're both written by the same guy . For what it's worth , " Love At First Sight " is actually a pretty likable and overall watchable film . It's not great or anything unpredictable ( how convenient - the female love interest ) but Kilmer gives a remarkable performance ( all considered ) and there are a few moments in hte film that are a BIT out of the ordinary . Worth watching , but don't go out of your way or anything .
At its heart lies a refreshingly fun comedy with a disclaimer : ' Please detach brains before viewing . ' )	SOME MINOR SPOILERS ( REGARDING THE PLOT - NOT WHAT HAPPENS ) ! " The Bachelor " Chris O'Donnell stars with Renee Zellweger in the 1999 remake ' The Bachelor , ' a film about ' the true meaning of love . ' Jimmie Shannon ( O'Donnell ) is your average 29-year-old bachelor : he doesn't want to let the good times come to a stop . But after he is pushed by friends to propose to his girlfriend Anne ( Zellweger ) , he does so , and accidentally says some regrettable things in the proposal line ( ' You win ! ' ) . After a fuming Anne refuses to respond to any of Jimmie's calls in the days to come , Jimmie comes to a realization that the relationship is over . And then it happens . His grandfather passes away , leaving 100 million dollars to Jimmie . What's the catch , you ask ? He must find a wife in twenty-seven hours to get the money . And so , the game is on , as Jimmie proposes to all his old girlfriends , including Ilana ( Mariah Carey ) , Daphne ( Jennifer Esposito ) , Buckley ( Brooke Shields ) , but before all them , a re-proposal to an ever-softened Anne , who realizes before saying ' Yes ' that Jimmie is not ready to get married . ' The Bachelor ' is a remake of ' Personal , ' ' How a French Nobleman Got a Wife Through the ' New York Herald ' Personal Columns , ' ' Meet Me at the Fountain , ' and ' Seven Chances , ' all of which I have not seen . Therefore , I have nothing to base my review on . Also , therefore , I enjoyed this film . It may be a bit odd at times , especially the end , but overall it is just fun . It is a good escapism film where one can sit back , relax , and forget their worries . Chris O'Donnell may not be a great actor , but he pulled off Jimmie Shannon enough to not raise any eyebrows . I found Renee Zellweger to be quite good as Anne , providing a typical ' woman moment , ' when she , after Jimmie makes an awful proposal to her , grabs some food and hogs down . James Cromwell is best as ' The Priest , ' who Jimmie carries around all day to perform a marriage on the spot . I love the deadpan expressions Cromwell carries throughout the whole film , until the end , where he finally speaks to Jimmie about love . ' The Bachelor ' may not have the greatest character development , and the end was a bit more than odd ( too much so to call it ' original ' ) ; but I still enjoyed the film . At its heart lies a refreshingly fun comedy with a disclaimer : ' Please detach brains before viewing . ' ) Dumb fun . Nothing less , nothing more . stars ? John Ulmer
Not as good as the original , but watchable and more faithful to King's story )	I had originally approached this miniseries with caution as Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of Stephen King's novel , " The Shining , " is one of my very favorite horror films - expertly crafted , and really suspenseful despite the fact that it never really SHOWS much of anything . It's now popular knowledge among film buffs that King hated Kubrick's vision of his novel and never appreciated it . So in 1997 he helped get this miniseries off the air - a whopping four-hour adaptation of the novel which is more literal and less psychological as Kubrick's was . One thing King hated about Kubrick's film was that he supposedly left out a lot about the hedges outside turning into creatures and chasing Jack . Well , something to that extent happens here - amongst other things . Steven Weber takes over Nicholson's role as Jack Torrance , who takes his wife ( Rebecca De Mornay ) and son ( Courtland Mead ) to a remote hotel . Jack thinks the remoteness will help him with his writing - when in fact it ultimately drives him to insanity because the house has an unfortunate past involving murder , mayhem and . . . mischief . The cast is good - Pat Hingle , Mario Van Peebles and Elliott Gould round out the rest of it . . . but the eventual outcome is decidedly inferior to the original 1980 film . As far as miniseries tend to go , " The Shining " is quite good - it's entertaining to a certain extent and at least offers a new version of the novel with some fresh aspects . . . but at its heart it's just less scary , less masterfully directed , less everything . Check it out if you're a King fan or a huge fan of the film and want to see another version - otherwise , you'll probably find something to be desired here .
Funny but inconsistent with only a few memorable segments	Being a big fan of Will Ferrell and " SNL " humor in general I made a blind buy with the " Anchorman " DVD . I had heard it was supposed to be very funny , and to some extent it is - there are a few scenes that are hilarious , and a few clever / subtle jokes that you might miss on first viewing . However , I was overall disappointed with the film , and felt it was a bit too silly and over-the-top . I do enjoy silly comedies but this one was just a bit too childish - the first ten minutes are awful stuff , with not a single good joke , and just loads of lame sex gags . However the " Gangs of New York " battle spoof is utterly hilarious and no doubt the scene I will remember most . It has a handful of really funny jokes - " Oh yeah ? Well you're about to be in dead place ! " being one of them . The cameos are really amusing - Ben Stiller , Vince Vaugn , Jack Black , Luke Wilson , and Tim Robbins amongst them ( there are also some SNL actor cameos scattered throughout ) . However the one thought I came away with was this : Ben Stiller really needs to slow down the amount of movies he's starring in ! Cameo or not . . . . Ferrell is funny as always and ( as always ) never breaks character . He's good at doing this and like Phil Hartman is the sort of comedian who , even off-screen , still seems to act distant and humorous . Ron Burgundy is a funny character , and Ferrell portrays him well . The movie's sexist commentary of the 1970s and the clever news group insights are worth watching for , as are some of the few funny scenes - however overall this really is a disappointment , being too childish and stupid , and I for one just felt it missed a lot of potential . That said , some of the jokes will stay with you , like , " Because you're probably wanted for murder . " It's a testament to Ferrell's abilities that he can make unfunny lines very funny , relying solely on pronunciation and delivery for effectiveness .
As basic entertainment it works - just don't go in expecting anything deep or memorable	" National Treasure " was a surprise hit for Disney and seemed to make quite a splash at the box office , which I didn't expect when I saw ads for it . Out of pure interest - and a few good things I had heard from friends - I figured I might as well check it out , since I'm a bit of a Nicolas Cage fan to begin with . The movie focuses on Cage's character and his pursuit to find the Masons ' treasure , which he believes has been hidden and leads to a map somewhere . Eventually after an ice dig he finds the next clue - which indicates the map is printed on the back of the Constitution . After the bad guy ( Sean Bean ) sabotages his expedition and leaves to nab the Constutition for himself , Cage teams up with his Neurotic Comic Relief Character to take the Constitution , protect it , find the treasure , and so on and so forth . Conveniently , he teams up with a sexy woman ( Diane Kruger ) who just so happens to work in Washington , D . C . for a museum . How convenient . The movie isn't nearly as good as " Indiana Jones " and I didn't like the beginning at all . For example the whole process where they plan how to steal the Constitution was poorly executed . I felt like I was watching a TV commercial . The entire bit with the computer and everything was just way too TV-style to be in a feature film . Cage is good , Kruger is out of place , Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel and Christopher Plummer are all given very little to do . The movie ends quite typically . Spoilers are ahead , so do not read any further - - - - I don't usually give out spoilers but I felt this one should be addressed . At the end , Cage is given a lecture by Keitel on how sharing the treasure with the world is the right thing to do , and so on and so forth . It's a very contrived , silly , unrealistic conclusion because we all know that , in reality , America would hog the treasure for itself . ( And one might say they have a right to , as the founding fathers supposedly buried it . ) A few things like this rubbed me the wrong way . They seemed too preachy and unrealistic , and because of the PG rating and the Disney marketing it comes across as a very mild version of something that could be given a harder treatment in the future . But as far as family films go , this one is better than a lot of others . Cage is always fun to watch and he has a good time with his role . It's not a great movie but it serves its purpose .
Overrated and tedious	Al Pacino won his first and only Oscar for " Scent of a Woman " in 1992 and he deserved it far more for " Glengarry Glen Ross , " released the same year . Although he yells a lot in both pictures , the over-the-top screaming was justified by the character in " Glengarry Glen Ross " ; in " Scent of a Woman , " his Lt . Col . Frank Slade comes across as a gross caricature , sort of like Robert De Niro in " This Boy's Life . " Both terrific actors made some mistakes in the 1990s : This was Pacino's largest in my opinion . First of all , like De Niro in " This Boy's Life , " Pacino's fake accent is constantly varying from scene to scene . He's supposed to be from the south and has that southern twang in his voice , and pronounces words " lak dis , y'know . " ( In fact , he says " y'know " a lot in this movie . ) The problem is that the accent comes and goes ; sometimes Pacino's got it down-pat , and at other times we feel as though he's playing another character . The end speech in particular careens from Louisiana speech patterns to New York City , y'know . The movie starts off fair enough but it's so sappy and oozing with cheesy sentimentality that , by its finale , I felt as if I'd seen enough and wanted to turn on something else . Because basically I've seen something just like this before . It was called " Dead Poet's Society " and it followed the same formula , and carried the same sentimental goo as " Scent of a Woman . " Chris O'Donnell delivers the best performance of his career , and outstages Pacino . But the movie - - clocking in at nearly three hours ! - - really falls apart in the last act . Yes , it's nice to feel refreshed by cinema . Frank Capra got away with this endless times - just look at the final speech by Jimmy Stewart in " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington . " The problem is that it's out of place , awkward and unrealistic in " Scent of a Woman , " a movie that otherwise proposes it is very real . Pacino rants for about five minutes straight , as if he's reading his lines from " Witty Catchphrases People Will Remember for Years to Come : For Dummies . " Overall , Martin Brest has made far better character pieces ( just look at " Midnight Run , " and that was a comedy ! ) and although " Scent of a Woman " is NOT a horrible film by any means , I do believe it's quite overrated and too sappy at times to be altogether memorable . It's okay , and worth watching now and again if it happens to come on television , but don't expect the masterpiece some people have made it out to be . It's really quite average , and follows a formula that's been followed far too many times over the years .
Not perfect , but entertaining	Let me introduce you to the humor associated with " Dracula : Dead and Loving it ! " : A doctor gives a class of medical students a lecture while he cuts open a body and takes various organs out . One by one the students faint , until there is one left standing , unharmed by the gore . The doctor , frustrated , removes the dead victim's large intestine and hands it to the student , who faints immediately . The doctor is Mel Brooks , who walks happily over to his assistant and makes a remark about how many students he has caused to faint during his lecture seminars . Here lies the roots of Mel Brook's latest spoof : " Dracula : Dead and Loving it . " With Brooks ' latest films flopping severely , it seems the famed comedian has turned back to his old days in " Young Frankenstein " - type-satires of the ancient horror genre . The Universal Pictures Horror Films genre . I suppose he figured this would be his big break back onto the big screen . Perhaps he thought returning to what was once a hit would re-invent himself as a filmmaker , screenwriter and actor . But it didn't work quite as well as he figured . Why ? Well , the film is quite amusing , but like many of his other films of such , it just isn't particularly great . There are a lot of laughs , but many of them half-hearted giggles compared to the boistrous laughter that ensued while watching " Young Frankenstein . " Here we don't even get as many laughs as we did in " Spaceballs , " which was a good . if not great comedy that had some great gags in various places . But the deal with " Dracula . . . " is that instead of great gags in various places , it has good gags in prolonged areas . I won't go into the plot much , because it is basically exactly the same as the Universal Classic by the semi-same name . The only difference is that this film is played for laughs , the other wasn't . Mel Brooks takes every scene from " Dracula " and re-films it with comedic actors , including Peter MacNicol , himself ( Mel Brooks ) , and Leslie Nielsen as the feared Count Dracula . If you have seen " Kung Pow : Enter the Fist , " you will probably remember that director / writer / actor Steve Oederkerk filled himself into various kung-fu films and dubbed over the other actors ' voices . " Dracula . . . " is a bit like " Kung Pow , " only instead of digitally inserting Nielsen and co . into the Universal classic ( which could have been a more clever choice ) , Brooks re-films the entire movie with a comedy script instead of a serious script . But too many gags are wasted to truly name this film classic comedy . It's the perfect treat for a Friday or Saturday night in , and I've watched it at least four times on TV on various nights , but I would not recommend you run out and rent the film . Like I said before , the problem with " Dracula : Dead and Loving it ! " is that instead of great gags in various places , it has good gags in prolonged areas .
Excellent beginning , but it really falls apart after the half-hour mark	The first half-hour of " Hostage " is excellent - it's innovative , stylish , gritty and fun . But then it just gets kind of stupid . The plot is typical : cop fails on the job , blames himself for a child's death ; changes his profession to avoid unsettling memories , but then gets unwillingly drawn back into a similar scenario - this time feeling the need to redeem himself for his past errors . Bruce has done this a few times in the past . In " The Sixth Sense " he was a shrink who let a kid down and took it upon himself not to make the same mistake again . In fact I believe " Mercury Rising " had the exact same opening as " Hostage . " In this flick Bruce is a hostage negotiator , and he gets involved in a memory-stirring hostage situation when three troubled kids take a rich accountant ( Kevin Pollack ) and his family hostage in his home . Things go haywire , cops wind up dead and the accountant's employees - a weird underground mob whose offshore accounts are managed by Pollack - decide to take Bruce's family hostage in exchange for him rescuing Pollack and / or retrieving a DVD full of encrypted files from Pollack's home . Kind of a cool twist on a familiar plot , but there are way too many lapses of logic here . I dug the directorial style - but after a half-hour everyone seemed to get kind of lazy . The plot has a lot of holes in it and way too many long , rambling scenes that don't serve much of a purpose to the rest of the picture . The ending in particular is what really left a bad taste in my mouth . It goes from suspension of disbelief to utter stupidity . Mars ( Ben Foster in a devilish role ) turns into Superman and is running around a burning house tossing Molotov cocktails at everyone , popping in and out of vents firing handguns ( which never seem to need to be reloaded ) , getting stabbed and shot but never dying . And then we get the heavy-handed religious symbolism - to quote another review , " It's like , please , baby , spare me ! " Mars turns into Jesus and the accountant's daughter is the Virgin Mary . His death sequence has him take on the crucifixion stance as the daughter of the accountant stares on with a towel draped around her head . Hmm . . . The film tries to handle way too many subplots , and I think that's the real problem . They all crash together at the end , and suddenly it feels like three or four different movies all going on at once . There's the plot with the cop who feels the need to redeem himself , the plot with the cop whose family has been taken hostage , the plot with the troubled kids , the plot with the hostage situation , the plot with the retrieval of the DVDs , the plot with Mars ( halfway through the movie he suddenly becomes a major focus and Bruce begins studying old CCTV tape footage of him murdering a clerk , observing , " He's watching him die " - and from this point onwards the symbolism gets weird ) . I'm all for suspension of disbelief but some of the stuff in this film is simply ridiculous . That said , I was entertained and I thought the beginning of the film was excellent - it's just rather unfortunate that the rest of the duration wasn't up to par with the earlier moments .
Fairly amusing " comedy-thriller " but sort of lame at the same time	Tom Selleck is the titular character , " her alibi , " who provides a beautiful murder suspect with a false alibi because he believes she is innocent . However , once he brings her back to his house , he begins to believe perhaps he was wrong - and now she is trying to murder him so that he cannot go back on his word . Selleck's character also happens to be a mystery writer of cheap paperback books so he uses what's happening in his life as a parallel to his story , so at moments throughout the film we hear voice-overs of the story being narrated and it's played for comedy ( example : Selleck makes a lot of noise while spying on the murder suspect , then in voice-over he reads a line from the book he's writing and says that the character in the book " quietly snuck up on the girl . " ) . Not a great movie , but it will entertain you .
Cronenberg's most commercial film - - and very disappointing	This should have been better . Cronenberg knows how to make a movie . He also knows satire . Unfortunately , he's still struggling with aspects of regular narration , and that is ultimately where " A History of Violence " fails . The point of the movie : violence has an impact , whether immediately or in the long run . But Cronenberg loves gore - he almost has an obsession with it . His penchant for the grotesque makes its way into the film ( shattered noses , faces shredded to pieces by gun battles ) - - the visual effects are spectacular , but they don't belong in a film that tries to balance the effects of violence . It makes his movie a giant contradiction . Another narrative element he struggles with is trying to make a normal movie . As a filmmaker , he's way out there - - " The Fly " is considered ( or was considered up until " Violence " ) to be his most commercial film - - yet even " The Fly " was bizarre . His fans know he's weirder , usually - check out " Naked Lunch , " " Scanners , " " Videodrome " or " M . Butterfly . " The weird aspects creep into " A History of Violence . " It doesn't always work . It does make a tie with the graphic novel it's based upon , but it disconnects from reality , too - - and this film really needs to be rooted in reality to work as a moralistic story . Otherwise it's just lessons from another world that don't apply to our own - and then what's the point ? The good : Ed Harris is extraordinary . The direction in the beginning is excellent . The tension works . And it's an entertaining , unusual movie - - it's not bad . It's just lukewarm . It's not as good as it thinks it is , and it's not as good as it should have been . Part of it is Cronenberg's fault , and part of it is the lead performance by Viggo Mortensen . He's TOO subdued - - there's a fine line between playing a tormented character and a one-note one . De Niro in " Once Upon a Time in America " did the same thing better . Other actors have , too . The script's bad , also . The teen subplot is unnecessary and ridiculous . Jocks aren't that stereotypical . Is it a Cronenberg film or a John Hughes one ? I bought it on DVD . I'm a Cronenberg fan . Maybe I'll watch it again with the rest of the commentary and try to re-evaluate it . ( I know that's necessary with some of Cronenberg's films . ) But this one failed to impress me on the same level as " Naked Lunch " or even " The Fly . "
It's actually a lot , lot more entertaining than I ever thought it would be	" RV " is not a great film but when I read the plot synopsis last year , saw the trailer and realized it was another Robin Williams family movie , I'd be lying if I said I wasn't disgusted . It looked like another " Daddy Day Care " - a once-hilarious and provocative comedian grows up , loses his youthful rawness and starts making lame family comedies . It looked like a pathetic rip-off of " Vacation " minus the adult humor . However , I started watching " RV " and it was actually more entertaining than I expected . Maybe it's because it has a good comedy director at its helm , but it's not as stupid or slapstick as I expected - barely any poop / fart jokes and the family tension actually seems REALISTIC rather than forced , hip and unfunny . You know those awful family comedies where the teens can't get along with the parents and the film deliberately goes out of its way to kind of show that ? Well , " RV " really doesn't , which I admired . It develops the children's personalities much better than most family comedies . Williams constrained himself and doesn't come across as a pathetic camera-mugger . Apart from an opening impersonation way too reminiscent of his stereotypical comedy acts that he was once respected for , the movie develops nicely . I spotted two cast members from " Arrested Development " which was nice . There's actually a good dose of adult humor in this film too - some pretty overt sex jokes that I was surprised to hear and the bit with the actor who plays Gob from Arrested Development ( I really should know his name but I can't remember off-hand ) had me laughing out loud , which I didn't expect at all . Jeff Daniels is just a great actor and his presence here also really helped elevate this - overall I was just pleasantly surprised because it was one of the better family comedies I've seen recently , with good acting and realistic family interaction and a good sense of humor that , despite advertising to the contrary , is NOT over-the-top and goofy in most places . I think the really low rating on this site is partly due to cynical moviegoers who read the synopsis like I did and perhaps vote without even seeing it . Compared to " Daddy Day Care " this is comedic genius .
Temple of dissapointment	Despite the attempts to make this film a great sequel , they ended up with a tragic try to make another Indiana Jones movie . Let me tell some of the problems I had with this film . SOME SPOILERS AHEADSPOILERS 1 . - The opening scene-it was okay until Indy jumped out the window , into the car which is being drived by TEN YEAR OLD ! ! 2 . - It just didn't fit Indiana Jones , going into a jungle was okay , but some of the things he did . . . just wasn't Indy 3 . - The Plane-After the pilots jump out of the plane , Indy , the kid , and the girl ( I haven't seen the movie in about year so I forget their names except for Indy ) , jump out with and inflatable raft and use it as a parachute . And they land safely on a SHALLOW stream below . . . I know some things are stupid and I can put up with them but THAT ? ! ? ! . 4 . - The interactions-I found the girl and the boy extremely obnoxious , and although Ford was excellent as Indy , despite his failed attempts , the other actors just could not act . 5 . - the sacrifice-Once Indy finds the cult in a secret passageway in the mansion he's in ( sounds a bit kiddish , but that's okay , I can put up with that ) . He then witnesses a sacrifice made by the cult in which the leader pulls out the heart of another man with his bare hands , and then the man lives long enough to be put into a cage and lowered into a pit of burning lava , all the meanwhile still livin ( WHOA , hold on here , now that's just plain stupid AND kiddish ) . And yet they're making this more of a kiddy movie , especially seeing a ten year old is Indy's sidekick , and now the whole heart thing . Yet they're violent enough to show the blood squeezing out of the cult leaders hand as he holds it high in the air , meanwhile the heart's still pumping ! ! Either kid movie or not , make your choice . 6 . The mine ride-perhaps one of the dumbest parts , I'd say the third dumbest part compared to the heart and the plane parts . First the stuff they do in these mine carts is just so unrealistic . I won't even go into it it's so dumb . 7 . - I could go on and on-I have a feeling by now you want me to stop before I make my comment on the bridge climax scene , but I'll tell you some things of what greatly dissapointed me . My grandmother is almost 80 years old , she is a huge fan of the Indiana Jones series , She probably is hoping she'll be alive still when number 4 comes out , but however , she really dislikes this one , I think for the same reasons as me . I grew up on these movies whenever I'd go to her old house , I always watched number 1 and 3 , 3 is still my favorite one . But I was never allowed to see temple of doom , because it was too violent . When I got older though , I finally got to see it . I wasn't exactly let down at first , but I was alot younger and well , it's like watching superman , he's the big hero . But as I got older , boy the older the more stupid it became . So I just want to say to all Indy fans , if you're die hard fans , well you've probably already seen this seeing it's been around for about 15 years I think , but if you've just become a fan , and can't wait to see the sequel . . . . You're going to be a little let down just to warn you . So all in all , I'd have to give this stars . I hope number 4 ( which they are planning on making right now ) lives up to the 1st and third movies , because those are the greats , and they should be shown a little more respect
Still crackin '	The first " Naked Gun " movie is one of the best spoofs of all time . I'm not a huge fan of the genre but even I think it's incredibly , side-splittingly outrageous - this last time I saw it I laughed so hard I cried . The sequels of course were intended to cash in on the surprise success of the original ( which was based on the ZAZ trio's failed TV show , " Police Squad , " hence the subtitle on the film ) . For the most part , both sequels were entertaining and funny . Although it's nowhere near as good as the original , " Naked Gun 2 : The Smell of Fear " is a worthy continuation of the epic saga ( just kidding about the epic bit ) - all in all it's just good fun . Leslie Nielsen returns as Lt . Frank Drebin , this time out to foil the plans of a mad industrialist ( Robert Goulet ) . It seems a respected doctor has found a new method of preserving earth's natural resources and foregoing oils , gasoline , and other elements . Fearing financial bankruptcy , the companies kidnap the doctor and replace him with an identical " clone " of sorts , so the truth cannot come out . However , the doctor's assistant is Frank's old flame ( played by Priscilla Presley ) . Frank looks into the case while rekindling a relationship with the woman of his dreams . David Zucker returned to direct this film with the help of brother Jerry and pal Jim Abrahams . If I recall correctly , the third film was not made by them , so it's interesting to see them tackling a sequel to a film of theirs - something they don't usually do ( they also passed on " Airplane 2 " ) . For the most part this film is quite funny and has some really good gags , but it's also littered with some mediocre ones , as many spoofs of these sorts are . Nielsen is still hilarious as Drebin and all around him act simply to accommodate his talents . George Kennedy and O . J . Simpson also return to their roles . If you enjoyed the first film , chances are you'll also enjoy this . Basically it's in the same vein of the first film and delivers a good range of slapstick gags , some of which will have you in a fit . But you won't be gasping for breath like you did when you saw the first " Naked Gun " movie .
It's just not very funny	Although many people consider " Raising Arizona " to be one of the funniest films of all time I find it an extremely overrated motion picture . The Coen Brothers are certainly unique filmmakers and as a duo they are one of my favorites - but the problem is that sometimes they try to be so bizarre and over-the-top that their story suffers . " Fargo " was really the perfect balance of dark humor and exaggeration - it is their most mainstream film and definitely the one with the most restrained humor . " The Big Lebowski " is really over-the-top but it's hilarious from start to finish . " Raising Arizona , " like " O Brother Where Art Thou ? " , suffers from a pretty weak script and wandering direction . It starts as a straightforward ( albeit strange ) comedy , turns into drama , and ends as a wacky over-the-top action film . It's all done tongue-in-cheek but a lot of the humor just isn't very funny at all . The Biker from Hell being a good example of something that is pretty clever ( sort of poking fun at the stereotypical villains ) but it's just so bizarre it's not even funny ! The movie is fairly realistic in the beginning but by the ending it's like watching some really bad cartoon with human actors - people are literally flying into the air for goodness sake ! The movie is very amusing at first but once it starts trying to focus more on its plot it suffers a lot . First of all the humor basically becomes childish and / or nonexistent - Cage abducting the child is just not very funny and it goes on far too long . After that there are really only a handful of good jokes and even then they're nothing compared to " The Big Lebowski . " Also the chemistry isn't very good . Holly Hunter's character is totally unlikeable and thin ( as in : given no proper introduction ) . She isn't developed well at all , she seems like a masochistic bch rather than someone we like to root for . Cage is really good in his role and that's a shame because the idea of him being married to her really becomes grating . The Coens really misfired with her character . Many subplots and characters that are introduced are unnecessary and / or frustrating . . . loads of potential with John Goodman's character but it's all pretty much wasted in a barrage of stupid ideas . Overall I would have preferred a movie exclusively about the Cage character and his misadventures - once the film settles down into its plot and focuses more on Hunt and the rest of the cast it loses a lot of steam and potential . . . . I can't really understand why so many people like this film . Sometimes I dislike a film and can at least see why others might think it's great - but with " Raising Arizona " I really do feel it's a major misfire from the Coens and their later projects - " Fargo , " " Miller's Crossing , " " Big Lebowski , " " Barton Fink " - are a whole lot better .
Escape from Shawshank	It is the most basic of all principles of film-making : A story of redemption . This time the story is set inside Shawshank Prison , where successful banker Andy Dufresne ( Tim Robbins ) is sent to during the 40s , after being falsely accused of murdering his wife and her lover . The jail veteran , Red ( Morgan Freeman ) , sees Andy being forced through the front gates of the jail on his first day of arrival and sees him as a weakling . Red even makes a bet with the fellow inmates that he won't last . He's wrong . Andy does last , and becomes an inspiration to all of those behind bars . The warden of the jail , Samuel Norton ( Bob Gunton ) , is intent on bringing down Andy and his defiant nature , as all villains always are . That is the prevailing message , I suppose . The redemption comes two-fold - - Andy is given time to reflect upon his life in Shawshank , and Red ( who is obviously deeply moved by Andy's influence ) learns a thing or two , going through a cleansing process . We see the gradual change , too - - first Red is the cynical veteran , then the curious insider , then the close friend , then the surprised object of redemption . As strange a title it may be , " The Shawshank Redemption " is a worthy one . At the end of the day , " Shawshank " is a good film - but far from a perfect one . I'm not interested in responding to its Top 250 placement with my review ( as countless others have done ) , but the fact that it has been voted into the number one slot is a reflection of how universal its appeal is : it's about as likable and mass-marketed as possible . There's nothing here to really offend or provoke and the film doesn't take enough changes to potentially polarize audiences - - it plays it safe , and in my opinion , a bit too safe . The film's message of hope and redemption is way too heavy-handed , the outcome being a movie that is very simple and easy to digest - - but not really very interesting beyond its surface . It speaks volumes that so many people who have gone through depression often reference this as one of the aids they used for comfort - - it's a movie that pats people on the back and gives them hope and inspiration . That's a great message , but if you provide it without any challenge to the audience - - and instead just spoon feed it - - well , for me , anyway , it doesn't leave much of an impact . It's just a well-made but manipulative and self-important film .
" The Birds " has always been one of my lesser favorites from Hitchcock	I've been watching " The Birds " since I was too young to even remember , and when I was moving across countries once I even caught the sequel on television ( which is just gruesome and lacking the suspense of this ) . However " The Birds " has always seemed slightly uneven to me , as if the premise itself is so absurd that I have a hard time taking the film entirely seriously . In my opinion the best Hitchcock films are " North by Northwest , " " The 39 Steps , " " The Lady Vanishes , " " The Man Who Knew Too Much , " " Vertigo , " " Rear Window " and of course my favorite horror film of all-time , " Psycho . " " The Birds " is a good film and very well-made but because its content is so silly in nature you may find yourself having a hard time taking it all as seriously as Hitch expects us to . So overall , it is a fine movie , but not one of the Master of Suspense's greatest .
One of the better teen-film " homages " in recent memory	Hollywood likes road trip movies . Ever since films such as " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " and " Midnight Run " hit theaters back in the 80s , Hollywood has liked to bombard us with films about people on road trips doing funny things and getting caught in odd situations . Kevin Smith even paid his homage to John Hughes ( " Planes . . . ) with " Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back , " I suppose . " Road Trip " is a disgusting and insulting film , but also an occasionally very funny film , cashing in on the Farrelly Brothers and " American Pie . " It is directed by Todd Phillips , whose 2003 comedy " Old School " was about a bunch of guys in their 30s who decided to open up an off-campus fraternity and re-live their old college glory days , despite the fact that they had families to care for . As " Old School " was an homage to " Animal House , " " Road Trip " ( 2000 ) is an homage to just about any crude film about sex-crazed teenagers you can think of . The formula was done already in " Overnight Delivery , " but it is done better here . An Ithaca college-goer named Josh Parker ( Breckin Meyer ) misses his girlfriend , who is going to another college far away , and caves in to pressure and has a one night stand with a fellow classmate , Beth ( Amy Smart ) . They tape their intimacy , but the tape is mistakenly sent to Josh's girlfriend . Sent on a road trip to retrieve the tape before his girlfriend receives it , Josh and his band of pals , E . L . ( Seann William Scott ) , Kyle ( DJ Qualls ) , and Rubin ( Paulo Costanzo ) , all experience some humilating moments along the way , including a French toast incident and lots of talk about nothing but what we'd expect from a film like this . Meanwhile , the narrative device of the story , and the major comedic relief , is MTV's Tom Green , who plays Barry , a quirky guy who gives tours of the campus even though he has absolutely no knowledge of its past whatsoever . What does he use as a time waster ? Josh's story - - every single time a tour group comes around the campus . This is as basic as crude sex comedies get , but it has its highlights . Some of the scenes , such as the French toast and mouse eating bits , have become pretty infamous , sorta like the hair gel in " There's Something About Mary " and the beer bottles in " Dumb and Dumber . " If you like crude , irreverent comedies , " Road Trip " is a safe bet for a night in . I enjoyed it for what it was , although I have seen much better , and Todd Phillips ' " Old School " was a step above this material , making me think that perhaps his next film , a remake of TV's " Starsky and Hutch , " with Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson , might be really good . And , after that , " The Six Million Dollar Man " with Jim Carrey . Reviving old TV shows might not be the best bet for an aspiring director , though . And every time he releases a film , he puts it onto " unrated " DVDs , which more or less just add a few deleted scenes that weren't necessarily too raunchy too include in the final cut , but just too long . What's with that ?
Amusing , watchable , a few laugh-out-loud moments , and Hoffman and Streisand are a humorous addition - - but overall not as good as the original	" Meet the Fockers " had a lot of potential but I think its downfall is that it never really goes anywhere . Clocking in at an hour and fifty-five minutes , it is not only longer than its predecessor , but repeats itself too often . In typical Jay Roach style , the director once again basically remakes his original film ( also see the first " Austin Powers " sequel ) through eerily similar scenes - - for example the football game in " Fockers " is a clear re-do of the water volleyball game in " Parents , " ending yet again with someone being injured - - but the film still manages to create just enough new gags to make it worthwhile . This is a generally amiable picture worthy of a night's entertainment . It is not , however , anywhere near as memorable as the first film - - which not only surprised me , but to this day lingers in my memory . ( I still haven't forgotten the dinner sequence with the cat and the mother's ashes . That was brief comedic genius . ) " Meet the Fockers " is just a bit too obvious . It's a sequel made for money . Its cast is obviously having a great time - - Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand are chewing up the scenery - - but it's far from a respectable and intelligent sequel . ( Then again , who expected it to be ? ) Bottom line is : A fun movie , just not great . My biggest disappointment in " Fockers " is the transformation of De Niro's character , Jack Byrnes . In the original , Jack was a very strict disciplinarian , ex-CIA man . In " Fockers " De Niro seems to turn his original portrayal into a parody of itself - - Jack was believable in the original , to some degree , and here he is just a bit too broad to find convincing . Although the opening Democrat / Republican comparison between Hoffman's character Bernie ( liberal Jewish ) and Jack ( uptight conservative ) is pretty amusing , especially nowadays , it goes on a bit too long afterwards . At an hour and a half , we don't need another reminder than Hoffman is a liberal and De Niro's character is not . During this , Jack generally acts like a real jerk , and not only devolves past what he was in the first film , but becomes WORSE - he once again disbelieves Greg ( Ben Stiller ) , and it's just sort of tiring because we've already been through this stuff in the first film . Also , perhaps it is just me , but I found De Niro a great deal less likable than he was in the first film . In that , there was a certain element of understanding attached to his actions - - in " Fockers " he really does just come across as a mean , sarcastic guy and although De Niro is still very funny , he's nowhere near as funny as he was in " Parents , " which built its laughs on absurdity in the face of realism , and not vice versa . " Fockers " is a pleasant sequel that delivers enough entertainment for a Friday or Saturday night viewing . Hoffman in particular is an excellent addition to the series and not only has fun in his role , but delivers the most laughs . And his chemistry with De Niro is , once again , very funny . ( Even more so than " Wag the Dog . " ) But in the end , I thought to myself , " Haven't I seen something like this already ? " And I realized a " Meet the Little Focker " better pull something new out of its hat or it's going to become a pretty tiresome ordeal . They should stop now , or come up with some new jokes - - the culture clash jokes can only remain funny so long . . . . Overall rating :
If you're a fan of the actors , it's reasonable to say you'll find something to enjoy here .	I only saw this film because of Kevin Bacon and Jennifer Aniston both being in it . Not a huge fan of either of them , but nevertheless I thought it might be interesting to see Aniston ( during the peak of " Friends ' " popularity ) crossing over into mainstream film . For the most part , it works . She's basically playing Rachel , her character from the TV show , again . Aniston's character is a shy , awkward business woman who isn't promoted due to the fact that she is considered " unstable " - no husband , family , etc . So she hires a fake boyfriend , Nick ( Jay Mohr ) , to pose as her lover . She ends up winning the affections of a man she has a crush on in her office ( Bacon ) , but then Nick begins to actually fall in love with her . The title derives from the fact that she works at a picture agency , and that's where a lot of the film's scenes take place . It gets a little weary after a while , and is very predictable - but if you're a fan of the actors , it's reasonable to say you'll find something to enjoy here .
Delivers What it Promises . . .	" Charlie's Angels " has been taking a lot of heat for being stupid , ridiculous , immature , etc . . . and while it's definitely not a great film , I can't help but half-enjoy it . Cameron Diaz , Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu fill in the shoes of the Angels , from the hit TV show " Charlie's Angels " - - remember that show ? Well , in this film , the Angels must stop a madman from doing something bad somewhere in the world . I'm not really sure what the plot was , because there really is no plot per say . This film is an excuse for two of Hollywood's prettiest women ( Cameron Diaz & Drew Barrymore ) running around blowing stuff up in bikinis . I'd have to say that the only thing that keeps this movie from being a better piece of entertainment is the annoying ( and horrible actress ) Lucy Liu . According to IMDb . com and shows like " Entertainment Tonight " and " Access Hollywood , " Bill Murray ( who played Bosley in this film ) did not return for the upcoming sequel because he didn't like working with Liu . I can't say I blame him . Just the sight of her ugly face on screen makes me cringe . I remember an interview with Murray back on the set of the original film , and they asked him about alleged arguments with Lucy Liu on set . He said the accusations were false , but I could tell he was lying . But apart from her , the cast is quite ensemble . The hilarious Bill Murray keeps this film from becoming nothing more than a bikini advert , and the enjoyable Tim Curry helps Murray a lighten the mood a bit in one of the scenes . Sometimes the film uses very odd filming techniques , and " McG , " the director , seems to try and go too much for a modern look . But , in a way , it gives the film more of a summer-flick feeling than anything memorable , which is all I want " Charlie's Angels " to be . The person going into this expecting Oscar-material has a screw loose . This movie is a lot like the film " MI : 2 " ( " Mission : Impossible 2 " ) : it delivers a whole lot of action for a nice night in . It's a summer flick , and nothing more . Pure Entertainment . Maybe a bit whacky at times , but nevertheless entertaining and fun , regardless of some flaws . stars - John Ulmer
A good silly movie that is everything " Anchorman " should have been .	When I heard of " Anchorman , " I thought the premise was inspired , and with its cast I was sure it would be a great stupid , silly comedy . Unfortunately it turned out to be a major disappointment and the companion piece of the year - - " Dodgeball " ( another hopelessly silly comedy ) - - turned out to be the better of the two and brought in some $30 million on opening weekend ; quite a feat for a film featuring an actor accused of starring in too many films ( Ben Stiller ) and an actor whose career has been reduced to shambles recently ( Vince Vaughn ) . " Dodgeball " is by no means a great comedy or an important piece of work but it doesn't have any pretensions to be . It follows in the path of slacker underdog movies like " Animal House " and just about any sports movie you can think of but it doesn't try to be anything more than what it is : an entertaining piece of trash . This is not out to win an Oscar , its purpose is to make us laugh and I did so quite a bit . Vaughn is perfectly cast as an average Joe who owns a gym called Average Joes ( ah , irony ) . Stiller is the owner of the competing " Globo-Gym , " a super-slick company with a $4 million price tag and an interesting company slogan : " We're better than you , and we know it ! " When Peter ( Vaughn ) fails to pay off debts his gym faces foreclosure and he must raise fifty thousand dollars or else Stiller will buy his land and turn it into a huge parking lot for Globo-Gym . So in order to raise the cash Peter and his die-hard gym members ( a pack of idiots , losers and a wannabe-pirate [ ? ] ) compete in the American Dodgeball Association of America ( I didn't get the joke the first time I heard it ! ) against Globo-Gym's Purple Cobras team . Ben Stiller's been getting on my nerves a bit lately , wearing his put-upon-nice-guy shtick into the ground . He's reached a point - - along with Vince Vaughn , Owen Wilson , Will Ferrell and Luke Wilson - - where they all just goof off in their movies , performing cameos or appearing in starring roles , and at first it's pretty amusing but after a while the whole Troup Stiller / Wilson routine gets old . . . " Anchorman " had Ferrell , Wilson , Stiller and Vaughn , and " Starsky and Hutch " had the other Wilson , Stiller , Vaughn , Ferrell etc . . . not to mention the fact that Duplex , Meet the Fockers and Along Came Polly all featured performances by Stiller that were eerily similar . Anyway suffice to say Stiller gives his best 2004 performance in " Dodgeball , " creating an over-the-top character who's very similar to the obsessive weight loss instructor in one of his earliest comedies , " Heavy Weights , " which might be a sequel of sorts to this since " Dodgeball " supposedly takes place in 1993 and that movie took place in 1994 . . . Overall " Dodgeball " is just good silly fun . Stiller is doing another one of his usual routines but he's a great deal funnier than he has been in many other films last year , and I like him better as the angry freak rather than the put-upon shmuck , which he's simply done way too much lately . The movie delivers laughs and doesn't attempt to do anything else . . . I'm not making this out to be a great movie because it's not . It's the sort of popcorn flick I'd watch if it came on TV in the future - - worth a rental at least .
Acceptable family entertainment , but it disheartens me to hear a sequel is already underway	DreamWorks Animation division is not exactly the best when it comes to animated motion pictures - from their early days of CGI productions they have repeatedly tried to mimic the success of Pixar . Of course , sometimes it was entirely coincidental ( " Antz " was already gearing up for production when " A Bug's Life " was in its early stages ) - but there's no doubting that they have tried to replicate the adult-humor of features such as " Toy Story . " It's worked once or twice . The edge of " Shrek " - and especially its pop-culture-reference-laden sequel - turned out to be entertaining and witty . But for every " Shrek " there's a " Shark Tale " ( still one of the most painful animated films I've ever had to sit through ) . " Madagascar " follows suit of " Shark Tale , " similarly featuring terrible animation that looks cheap and unappealing - but it's a lot better than " Shark Tale " because it's at least reasonably entertaining . Ben Stiller , Chris Rock , David Schwimmer and Jada Pinkett Smith voice four animals living in a New York City zoo . Stiller is a proud but timid lion , Rock is a curious zebra , Schwimmer is a hypochondriac giraffe who wears tissue boxes on his hooves ( a reference to Howard Hughes in his later life , of course ) , and Smith is a street-wise hippo . Marty the zebra dares to venture outside the zoo one day by escaping rather carelessly , and ends up getting himself and his pals transported to a new zoo after their journey through New York City scares a few people . Marty just wants to see his home land , but soon they're being shipped in crates barely small enough to fit their bodies . However , due to a series of strange circumstances involving scheming penguins , the ocean liner's path is diverted and the four animals find themselves stranded on the island of Madagascar , where they are faced with a wild environment in which they must defend for themselves against other animals and a weird pack of natives who worship them as gods . The movie's animation , as I mentioned above , is slipshod and amateurish . It looks as if Dreamworks had no care at all to spend time on the quality of their work here . The vocal talents are a bit self-conscious , too . Stiller - as much as I like him in regular comedies like " Starsky and Hutch " - is a bit too self-aware and I never felt like any of the characters were really characters - the entire time I just kept imagining Stiller and Rock in a studio recording their parts . Schwimmer and Smith both fail to leave an impression due to the restrictions of the script - Schwimmer's giraffe is just an ultra-nervous weirdo who's , quite frankly , rather annoying - and Smith doesn't really do much of anything except pop up now and again . It's really Stiller and Rock who are the two main vocal talents here - their characters are given the most room to grow in the script - but they're just average at best . Overall this really is just an " average " movie - it's not outstanding but it serves its purpose as amiable family entertainment . It doesn't contain the clever satirical wit of a Pixar film and neither does it appeal to adults and children equally in the same way most Pixar features do - but it's a lot , lot better than " Shark Tale . "
Easy to watch but definitely heavy on the sentimentality	Tom Hanks directed this film and that was probably the only reason I felt any urge to see it when it was released in 1996 . To this day I don't believe Tom Hanks is the next Martin Scorsese , but to be fair he does an apt job here and his cheesy , breezy vibe that he lends to the film suits it very well . Essentially a story about a small-town Pennsylvanian band in 1964 who hit it big after one of the members is replaced , and their manager turns out to be Tom Hanks ( gasp ! ) . " Almost Famous " is a far superior examination of a rock band's ups and downs but this is alright as far as Friday night entertainment goes . This movie is not the best but it is easy to watch and will deliver exactly what the people who watch it expect : a few laughs , a few smiles , some likable characters and a happy ending .
Overall , Worth Seeing , Despite Some Flaws . . .	A Review On the Film ' The Tuxedo ' by John UlmerJackie Chan's newest film , ' The Tuxedo , ' attempts to spoof the spy / secret agent genre . It doesn't completely achieve its goal . Chan is Jimmy Chang , a NY cab driver with mad driving skills . Jimmy transports a mysterious woman one day , who ends up recruiting him to be a personal chauffer for millionaire playboy Dean Devlin . There's only one catch . Never touch the playboy's prized tuxedo . But after some baddies make an attempted hit on his boss , Jimmy Chang has only one choice : to wear the tuxedo until Devlin is out of the hospital . Of course , this goes on to develop into a spy story , in which an annoying Jennifer Love Hewitt mistakes Chang for Devlin . And then , throughout the rest of the movie , the two go around doing funny things , including accidentally knocking out James Brown ( guess who goes on stage instead of Brown ? ) . ' The Tuxedo ' is surprising in a few ways . First of all , two things in the plot I didn't expect . One , I thought that it would be a typical comedy where a butler-type ends up touching his employer's prized object , and at the end of the film the employer finds out and blows the butler's cover . You know what I mean . Instead , in ' The Tuxedo , ' Chan's character is supposed to touch the tuxedo . His boss tells him to before being escorted to the hospital . Also , the ending is a bit ? well ? odd . Not what I'd expected . It breaks away from the typical guy-gets-girl ending . Unfortunately , the film also has many flaws . Perhaps its biggest is the fact that they use special effects on Jackie Chan . Who would ever want to do that ? ! The whole point of Chan film is that he does his own stunts ! Maybe he does some of his own stunts in this film , but the majority of them are computer generated . Also , casting Jennifer Love Hewitt was a mistake . Talk about bad acting ? whoa ? Maybe another one of ' The Tuxedo's ' major flaws is that it never knows whether to be a satire on James Bond films , or the next Matrix . The movie has no sense of stability . It's like a pack of playing cards stacked into a pyramid . Sooner or later , after you build up too much on a small base , it's just going to fall over because you have the base put together sloppily and it has been ignored . Also , the film tries to go for juvenile jokes at many times . The very beginning opens up with a crude joke . Now , I don't mean crude as in ' Shrek'-crude . I mean just plain dumb and juvenile . I worried when the first ' joke ' received laughter from children in the audience . Yet , later in the film , they go for sexually suggestive laughs . Even most of the laughs are unstable . And then there's the action in the film . It mixes between WB Looney Toons to ' The Matrix . ' Like the roots of the film , the action is unstable . I didn't know whether they wanted us to laugh at the action or feel a sense of suspense , especially the climax . Overall , I can't say ' The Tuxedo ' was disappointing , because I had already read many bad reviews on it . I wasn't expecting something excellent or satirical . So , with that in mind , believe it or not , I recommend this film . Perhaps it is because there are some good moments ? enough to watch for , even if the bad moments negative the good moments overall . Not great by any means , but worth seeing once , especially if you're a Jackie fan . stars
A sour note for Hitchcock to depart upon	I am under the firm belief that Alfred Hitchcock never made a single bad film . Some , of course , were lesser than others - but even his worst ( such as the romantic comedy " Mr . and Mrs . Smith " ) are above average films . Unfortunately , after the delight of 1972's violent and macabre " Frenzy , " which was a return to form for Hitch , he embarked on one more directorial effort - 1976's " Family Plot , " which I believe was actually released posthumously . The movie involves the escapades of two con artists ( a fake psychic and her boyfriend ) who swap paths with two jewel thieves in the San Francisco area . Of course , as per typical Hitchcock , the movie has darkly comical elements to it , lots of bantering dialogue and mistaken identities . However , overall this is probably my least favorite Hitchcock film , which is disappointing given that it was his final picture . Perhaps his poor health restricted his abilities as a director - I'm not sure - but it doesn't altogether even feel like a Hitchcock movie all of the time . The performances by the likes of Bruce Dern and Karen Black never rise above simply being " OK " and the direction is Hitch's weakest - possibly ever . I didn't think the humor worked as well as usual and the entire film just failed to engage me . It's still an interesting movie in some ways , and I'd recommend it because it's not by any means a completely BAD movie - but , when compared to Hitchcock's usual features , it ranks as being notably inferior .
Interesting racial undertones evoking the Civil War era , some good special effects , and some OK fight sequences make " Underworld " a decent Friday night matinee . . .	It was only a matter of time before a film like this was made . Unfortunately , the end result isn't quite as amazing as everyone had hoped it would be . Nevertheless , if you like werewolves and vampires , then " Underworld " will probably wet your teeth . For the most part , I found the film an enjoyable enough experience to recommend - - although there are some scenes that seem to slow the film down and add nothing to the story . I was also disappointed in the way that the film pays more attention on keeping its vampires and werewolves in human form , talking for the duration of the film , rarely fighting and evolving into beasts of the night . As Homer Simpson once said , " Less yakkin ' ; more zappin ' ! " " Underworld " is about a vampire named Selene ( Kate Beckinsale ) who lives in a scary mansion in Europe with dozens of other gothic beasts like herself . They're so busy fighting werewolves , it made me wonder where they all get their stylish leather attire - - it's like a " Grease " reunion or something . Selene is a " hunter " - - she seeks out werewolves and slaughters them , and this happens in the opening sequence which is pretty " Matrix " - esque . The vampires fight them with silver bullets , and the werewolves fight vampires with big teeth . Not much of a challenge for the vampires , eh ? You'd be surprised . With the help of CGI , Selene has trouble fighting the animals . ( They are apparently pretty strong , and apparently a big rip-off of the creatures from " An American Werewolf in Europe " and " Paris . " ) Werewolves , we learn , used to be slaves to the vampire species , before Lucius - - the head of the werewolves - - fell in love with the vampire " lord's " daughter . The latter was killed , and the former escaped , only to form a pack of followers that would battle with vampires over the ages . Now Lucius has targeted a young doctor who has the capability of forming a hybrid between vampires and werewolves . I didn't understand everything regarding how , exactly , this is possible , since I think the explanation is purposefully quick and slurred so that audiences can't stop to evaluate any implausabilities . Selene falls in love with the man and tries to stop Viktor , the lord of the vampires , from killing him . He tells her that the doctor is an abomination - - that vampires and werewolves cannot be mixed together . She doesn't believe him . The film is basically politically-correct . Werewolves used to be slaves , freed themselves , and were still faced with racism until a lone vampire decided that the two species could unite . Doesn't that sound a bit like truth ? Regardless of any implied backdrops , the film will probably satisfy any action fan who is looking for some neat battle sequences and cool special effects . My only problem with the film is probably the fact that the vampires and werewolves never really evolve into vampires or werewolves . We do see some large dogs occasionally , but for the most part it's just people with glowing eyes battling big muscular people who sometimes rip off their clothes and turn into big hairy beasts . But the film is an enjoyable Friday night matineee ; a good movie if you're in the mood for something light and enjoyable . It rips of " The Matrix " a bit with its style , but what gothic action film hasn't since 1999 ? Kate Beckinsale is gorgeous here , and worth the price of admission alone . The film isn't too original , and it's not nearly as great as it could have been ( chances are ruined here ) , but it works as a dumb , fun movie . stars . - John Ulmer
An enjoyable lightweight romantic comedy	Abby is a vet with her own radio talk show who answers call-in questions related to animals . When Brian ( Ben Chaplin ) rings with a query about his dog , they both begin to flirt . Soon after the radio broadcast he calls her private line and asks what she looks like . She claims she's a tall six-foot blonde beauty ( basically ) and soon he wants to meet her . Abby gets her friend Noelle ( Uma Thurman ) to pose as herself so that Brian won't be disappointed . She continues to communicate with Brian via the telephone but every time he wants to see her , she has to have Noelle go out with him . This may sound like a rather silly plot , but it's well-executed . As a friendly , simple romantic comedy , it delivers exactly what it is meant to . The performances are fine - Chaplin is okay , Garofalo is annoying as always but suits the character , and Thurman plays the ditz with a heart of gold . Clichés ? Yeah . But they work . The only scene I really had a problem with in this film was a sequence in which Abby and Brian participate in phone sex . It's kind of a clever idea but seemed , to me , rather awkward and out of place in such an otherwise family-friendly , sweet-natured comedy . Having sudden innuendos and hands reaching into pants wasn't what I expected , and I imagine it might present an awkward situation for families viewing the film with their children . I'm not a prude but I do think this was unnecessary given the film's general content and target audience . Otherwise it's an inoffensive and gentile comedy .
Overall , ' Stuart Little 2 ' is better than the original ; I'll give it stars ?	" Stuart Little 2 " ' Stuart Little 2 ' it the follow-up to the 1999 hit ' Stuart Little , ' which had , at the time , made the most money for a non-Disney computer-animated film . Well , ' Stuart Little , ' based on the good children's book by E . B . White , was unfortunately nothing good or great ? at all . M . Night Shyamalan , who brought us ' The Sixth Sense ' and ' Signs , ' surprisingly wrote it ; needless to say ' Stuart Little ' was his worst film . Now , a few months back , in 2002 , ' Stuart Little 2 ' came out , and I caught it at a free theater . It deals with the continuation of the Little family and their ' son ' Stuart ( a little white mouse ) , who is voiced by Michael J . Fox . Hugh Laurie plays Stuart's father , Gena Davis his mother , and a REALLY annoying kid plays his brother ( he's whiny ) . Along with the voice cast is Nathan Lane as Snowbell the cat ? Stuart's nemesis-turned-friend from the first film ? Jennifer Tilly as a bird , and James Woods as a killer hawk . ' Stuart Little 2 ' is better than the first mainly because it is more fun . However , it is still not a great film by any standards . First , I'll point out some things I didn't like about the first : No one seems to think it is odd that Stuart is a mouse ? I know it's a children's film and it's supposed to be like that , but a BIT of credibility would have been nice . The whole thing with him being a mouse ? it was trying to give us a preachy message that looks don't count and what's on the inside does . This is true , but the film preaches it the whole way through and it gets old . Now , ' II ' carries a lot of those traits , but not as much . It is more of an adventure , not a sappy film with an underlying message . That is why I enjoyed it more . I think it's a bit sad that Michael J . Fox has not been in a single live-action film since his leave from ' Spin City ' ( save a cameo in an independent film ) . I feel sorry for him because I have always enjoyed his performances ? he was perfect for ' Back to the Future , ' and he even made horrible films like ' Teen Wolf ' fun to watch . That is why I am sad that the only thing I can hear from him nowadays is his voice coming out of the mouth of a mouse . Not only that , but all the animated films he's been in are AWFUL ( ' Atlantis ' was one of the worst of 2001 ) . Nathan Lane is an enjoyable actor , and he fits Snowbell quite well . I think that he was definitely the perfect choice for the fluffy cat . And as for James Woods ? he was great . I have always enjoyed his performances in film as well , and seeing him as a hawk was a bit more than odd ; but at the same time it was refreshingly fun . Overall , ' Stuart Little 2 ' is better than the original ; I'll give it stars ? John Ulmer
Stupid , but strangely entertaining . . .	" Stephen King's Thinner " is about an obese man who starts to lose weight at the rate of three pounds a day . He loses so much weight , in fact , that he starts to become too thin . " I'm being erased ! " he yells , saying it just right so that they can slap it on the trailer for the film ( which I would not be surprised to find that they did ) . The fat man is played by Robert John Burke , who looks painfully funny in his fat suit and painfully unfunny as a sickened thin man . When the movie opens , we meet Burke's character , who is a waddling hot-shot lawyer . After winning a legal case for a friend , he goes out and eats . He always eats . Perhaps that is why he weighs over 300 pounds . One night after eating at a fancy restaurant , he hits a gypsy woman running across a street in the opposite direction of a pharmacy ( run by none other than Stephen King himself ) . She is hit by the car , goes flying into the air , and dies . Since our fat buddy has friends in the way of the law , he gets off easy . But the gypsy's father ( Michael Constantine ) takes justice into his own matters , by putting a gypsy curse on the man who killed his daughter . " Thinner , " he whispers , running the back of his hand along the man's cheek . The next day , the strangest thing has happened . Fatso has lost three pounds - - and this rate continues for quite a while , until he finally decides to find the gypsy man and command him to take the curse off . Otherwise , he will be " erased " from existence and he might never be able to eat again ! There's an amusing character on television by the name of Jiminy Glick , played by Martin Short . Jiminy Glick is basically Martin covered in a fat suit . He then interviews celebrities in a humorous manner and stuffs his face with donuts - - even if he's choking he's still eating . It's sad to think that the makeup in " Thinner " are less impressive than a television show . Martin Short looks like a fat man on " Primetime Glick . " Robert John Burke looks like he's trying to be funny . The fat on his cheeks are so obviously fake , while his stomach is nothing but , methinks , some stuffed pillows and bedsheets . It looks as if they weren't quite done working on him when filming started - - when he walks , you can practically see the ragged edges of the cushions sticking out from his extra-large clothing . And when he talks and smiles . . . let's just say the rubber on his face doesn't exactly hold together . But that doesn't matter , because I had fun watching " Thinner . " There are some much better horror films out there to be had , for sure , but this movie , though ludicrously low-budget , is fun to watch , and it does keep your interest for the most part . It gets a bit strange towards the end , but the very final climax of the movie left me a bit startled and a bit surprised . It wasn't expected . " Thinner " is just like all the other Stephen King horror adaptations out there . But there's some fun to be had in this one . . - John Ulmer
Basically a remake of Sleepless in Seattle with a new plot .	If you liked Sleepless in Seattle , you'll probably like YOU'VE GOT MAIL . Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan are back in a new romantic comedy with a new plot , but basically it's Sleepless in Seattle all over again . So again , if you liked SLEEPLESS you'll probably like MAIL . stars-JOHN ULMER
OK but hardly memorable	Kevin Bacon stars in " The Air Up There , " a family " comedy " that is nothing more than a few familiar faces and half-hearted laughs . It's another feel-good underdog story of which is not particularly memorable . Kudos to Bacon for turning a pretty routine script into a watchable , even amusing movie with some OK moments and likable characters . Not as good as " Cool Runnings , " but still worth catching if it's on Sunday afternoon or something . Not great , but good .
Not as good as it could have been	Los Angeles , 1948 . Robert De Niro is a Catholic priest whose brother ( Robert Duvall ) , a seedy cop , has been assigned to the case of a brutally murdered young prostitute . Through a matter of irony the girl is linked to the priest , who was present in a car with her prior to her death , and soon controversy flairs and a big to-do is made of it . " True Confessions " plays a bit too slowly , and is rather predictable . It also does a poor job of managing some of its plot - - it tries to criticize the absurdity of the press at some points , but just becomes a victim of its own satire when it unrealistically links events together via newspapers in the film . De Niro is believable as a priest , although maybe a bit too young for the role . Duvall is impressive as a gruff detective - - not a typical role for the actor . ( Darker than he usually is in most movies . ) If you're a fan of the actors I'd try to watch this at least once in your lifetime just for the sake of being able to say or know that you saw it - - but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it if I were you .
Works as an amusing time-passer thanks to a likable debut performance by Tom Hanks	" Bachelor Party " is very much like other films of its genre except that it is one of Tom Hanks ' very early efforts and , as a result , is more fondly remembered than it probably would be without Hanks . Yes , before Hanks turned into Forrest Gump and an Oscar-winning heavyweight actor , he desperately starred in a 1984 teen sex comedy not unlike " Porky's , " " The Last American Virgin " or " American Pie . " " Splash " had been a success by now so the marketers could rely upon his newly-created status to promote " Bachelor Party , " and it paid off - - this movie was an unexpected hit when it came out ( albeit a small one ) . Tom Hanks is a fine actor but I have to say that he had a certain charm about his acting that made many mediocre ' 80s comedies - - including " Turner and Hooch , " " The ' burbs " and of course " Bachelor Party " - - immensely likable despite their flaws . Yes , this is a crude , lewd , rude movie but it has its fair share of embarrassing moments , laugh-out-loud segments and cheesy ( but fun ) segments . Good entertainment for a Friday or Saturday night , and a good glimpse at a much younger , thinner , more comedic ( and slapstick ) Tom Hanks before he got all weepy-eyed and serious on us .
" Weird " is right	This is a very strange film . On one hand it's perfectly entertaining , but it's so bizarre and - to be blunt - utterly far-fetched and beyond-ridiculous that it actually kind of distracts from the entertainment value at times . The plot is so dumb - and the way it's handled - that suspension of disbelief is pretty hard . However , if you look at it as a realization of every teenage boy's fantasy , I guess it's all right . It's essentially about two 15-year-old boys ( Ilan Michael-Smith and Anthony Michael Hall ) who " create " a woman using electricity , a computer and a Barbie doll . This was my problem with the movie . John Hughes is usually great at character development and dialogue - but there's so little here . The setup is weak and the boys ' decision to create a woman is handled waaaay too fast . And then the science behind their actions is ignored so much that it's almost insulting . The " hacking " of the computer mainframe that takes place during the Barbie doll's transformation into a human is classic ' 80s technology - they had no idea what a computer even was back then and as a result the " hacking " segment is basically an animated slideshow of cool images on the computer screen as Smith types noisily away on his keyboard . Their result ? The beautiful supermodel Kelly LeBrock , who promptly takes a shower with the boys ( their clothes are left on , of course , but hers are not ) and then teaches them how to be cool , get girlfriends and so on . I was surprised by the amount of sexual content for a 1980s movie involving under-age teens . I've seen people say here on IMDb before that ' 80s movies couldn't get away with anything but that's not true . It may have been the Reagan era but this movie features 15-year-olds making out with a woman in her late ' 20s , sexual innuendo involving the woman ( it's implied one of the two boys has some type of sexual contact with her during the first night ) , underage drinking , underage smoking , and then of course a classic scene that could never be filmed today - Anthony Michael Hall mimicking African-Americans in a seedy downtown bar . I don't mean to sound like a prude , I was just shocked at how much they got away with for a 1980s , PG-13 John Hughes comedy . The acting in the movie is decent . Anthony Michael Hall is a revelation , and his scenes as a drunk pimp in downtown Shermer are hilarious . He comes across as a true comical force , which I was surprised at considering he's not usually the leading man in films . On the other hand , Smith is poor - he smiles throughout the movie , even when he's supposed to be scared or angry . Maybe it was his first acting job and he was nervous or in disbelief , but it's kind of annoying . Bill Paxton is responsible for the movie's most memorable scenes . He is utterly hilarious and his scenes were usually the only ones I laughed out loud at . Overall this is one of Hughes ' weakest films and it's probably because it was one of his more early directorial works . In terms of character development , " The Breakfast Club " reigns supreme . The dialogue isn't that great and the movie is too short and spends too little time with its setup . It's entertaining if you're not looking for anything of substance , but I think if Hughes had tackled this a few years down the road of his career the result would have been a bit more intelligent and memorable .
Fun and entertaining - just remember to disengage your brain	I generally hate these teen sex comedies and I approached " Van Wilder " with hesitation , but I actually found it to be quite entertaining and humorous ( if you're in the right mood , I suppose ) . Ryan Reynolds ( doing a great Chevy Chase impersonation ) is a guy in his late 20s who has been at college for eight years and still doesn't have a graduation in sight . His father , a rich politician ( played by Tim Matheson ) , finally decides to cut off his son's money and as a result , Van has to think of a way to come up with enough cash to stay in school . Pretty soon Van becomes a party planner and uses his knowledge on partying to throw great ones for nerds . He makes money off of it and his business soon becomes quite lucrative . If you like National Lampoon humor , you may like this . If you don't , you probably won't . I gave up on National Lampoon a long time ago but this is one of their better efforts in recent years . Don't get me wrong , it's not a great movie ; but I found Reynolds ( who seems to pick up a lot of flak ) to be quite funny and Matheson and other ex-Lampoon star cameos were amusing . Recommended for those who can enjoy stupid humor . If you liked " Dumb and Dumber , " you'll probably enjoy this .
Entertaining character study , but a flawed one .	First things first . So far this film has about an average vote of stars on IMDb , which I think is kind of surprising , because it's not that bad . I expected about a 5 or 6 rating . Yes , it's muddled and kind of pointless at times , and the ending is pretentiously ambiguous . But as a character study - - despite it's flaws - - it is a rather effective one that manages to explore the love triangle between two older people and a younger teenager . The movie's casual treatment of sexuality involving adults and a 15-year-old is kind of disturbing at first , but kudos to Alan Brown ( director and writer ) for getting away with it . He handles it right - it never nears exploitation - and as a result the story doesn't seem cheap and tacky like " Intimacy . " However my problems lie with the script itself . It's got too many repetitive moments and some scenes are kind of wandering and make you say , " Huh ? " The performances are alright . The only actor I recognized in the cast was Gregory Smith ( " Small Soldiers " ) , playing a fifteen-year-old , which is kind of silly because he looks about 20 ( at the least ) . I suppose they had problems with younger casting because of the love scenes between the leads . Essentially the story centers around three people in a small town - a 30-something high school teacher , his wife , and a local kid - and how their friendship soon turns into something else . The kid has an affair with the wife , the husband finds out , and hatred forms . It's an interesting movie because it's daring and different , but it has its flaws - a stronger script , better cast and more responsible and experienced director would result in a much better picture .
Vibrant and cool ; also sort of mediocre . . .	An entertaining , if seriously flawed , re-telling of Shakespeare's classic tale of young love starring Leonardi DiCaprio and Claire Danes as the infamous duo who sacrificed themselves over true love . Top-notch cast and some crazy modern-day direction by Baz Luhrman ( " Moulin Rouge ! " ) certainly makes for one of the strangest films to ever hit the big screen . stars . - John Ulmer
This Was a GREAT movie ! ! ! !	I went to go see this movie , thinking it might be as good as the first mummy movie , and I was wrong . IT WAS BETTER ! ! There is loads of Indiana Jones style action in this movie , along with lots of laughs . This movie is the best flick I've seen all year . It had really good graphics , and unlike other movies , it didn't start out with a boring , anticipated wait for action . Even though I don't like the Rock who plays the Scorpion King ( I'm not into wrestling ) it didn't matter because he's on ; y in 2 scenes ! I give this stars ! !
Phil Hartman actually gives it some amount of levity	By no means a great comedy , " Houseguest " actually comes across as being fairly entertaining thanks largely to the presence of the late , great Phil Hartman . Hartman's deadpan , ironic delivery always cracked me up on " SNL , " and although his film career never really took off prior to his death , he had some good supporting roles , and this is one of them . Sinbad is basically as annoying as ever ( although , admittedly , not nearly as bad as some other comedians - turned - family - entertainers ) and the plot is very basic and recycled - a guy on the run from some Mafioso types decides to take on the identity of someone else through a series of bizarre misunderstandings . In this case Sinbad finds himself pretending to be the old friend of Hartman's , who is now a brain doctor . There are actually some rather amusing scenes involving the forced and awkward such as when Sinbad is forced to give a speech on brain surgery despite knowing absolutely nothing about the topic . Overall , not by any means a great comedy , but something that can easily divert your attention on a rainy Sunday afternoon .
One of the rare GOOD Van Damme movies	Call me a cynical person but I think all Jean-Claude Van Damme movies suck . I don't watch them . I don't find staring at a semi-muscular man kickbox people and promote mindpower over violence , then turn around and kill fifty men with the strike of a single finger , particularly entertaining . However in 2003 Van Damme dropped this image by starring in a prison movie which seems like it could be a true story . . . the warden has them play cruel games and pits them against each other for the sake of his own enjoyment . Okay it's a bit like a bit between " Gladiator " and " The Shawshank Redemption . " It's even got a black character like Morgan Freeman and Van Damme is supposed to be the equivalent of Andy Dufresne ( Tim Robbins ) . There's even a scene towards the end of the movie where they're sitting outside against the exterior of the jail wall . It's pretty obvious they're drawing similarities . Nevertheless Van Damme gives a strong performance ( Wow ! I never thought I'd say that in a million years ) and handles most of the scenes well . Even if it's not the best prison movie to hit the big screen ( or small screen ? ) it's better than I thought it would be .
One of Carrey's finest - - it doesn't try to be anything it isn't . Would I lie ?	" My dad is a liar , " a small child says . " You mean a lawyer , " his teacher responds . He shrugs his shoulders . They're both the same , aren't they ? Jim Carrey is a liar in " Liar Liar " ( 1997 ) , which successfully uses Jim Carrey - - the king of annoyance - - to its full advantage . Jim Carrey has , given time , grown on me . I didn't like him at first . Then I learned to put up with him . Now I find him perfect for some film roles such as Lloyd Christmas in " Dumb and Dumber " ( 1994 ) . I never think that Jim Carrey is ideal for a role , really , until I see him in it , and then I think that no one could have done it quite so well . But I still don't particularly think he's a very good comedian , per se . Here he plays Fletcher Reede , a high-grade attorney so caught up in his work that he has little time to devote to his young son , Max ( Justin Cooper ) , the type of plot-created kid that these type of films deserve . Max is mad that his dad keeps missing out on all his activities , so his birthday wish is every lawyer's worst nightmare : no lying . Max wishes ( or commands ) that his father can no longer tell any lies , and the wish is granted by the powers that be . This is a problem for Fletcher , indeed , since he has just acquired the case of an adultress housewife ( Jennifer Tilly ) who wants to keep her kids . She spills the truth to Fletcher - - that she has had many affairs - - and this is not the type of thing a man uncapable of lying is able to cope with . Fletcher spills his guts at the court proceedings , tarnishing his image as a professional lawyer . In one of the film's better scenes , he walks into a court bathroom and beats himself up , slamming his head in a toilet and punching himself so that he can postpone the trial to a later date . Why is the sight of a man violently clapping his head against and between a toilet seat funny ? Because it's Jim Carrey who , as I mentioned above , may not be the funniest man alive , but by the box office numbers may technically be - - and he does have a knack for physical , spastic comedy ( too bad it can overtake his roles sometimes ) . Here he unleashes it when it is needed , and it works , because it is not a pointless exercise in energetic behavior , but quite the contrary . The situations one can get into with the restrictions of only telling the truth are limitless . These types of formulas always work good in Carrey's movies - - those involving abnormal abilities . There's a reason they keep making similar films following the same formula . As my ( small number of ) readers probably know , I am not a commercial critic with my grading scale . I am quite conservative , only giving high ratings to films that really deserve them . I hesitate to give " Liar Liar " anything more than the rating I have given it , although I must say that it is a very fine comedy with some great gut-busting laughs , and that any fan of inventive comedy - - Carrey fans or not - - should see this movie . After all , would I lie ? stars . - John Ulmer
A good old-fashioned fantasy , typically Gilliam , but the visuals overwhelm the plot at times .	If you've seen any other Terry Gilliam movie , you'll instantly realize " The Adventures of Baron Manchausen " represents his artistic vision at its most prominent - over-the-top sets , wacky larger-than-life characters , an absurd fantasy plot line rooted in children's tales ( like the upcoming Gilliam film " The Brothers Grimm " ) , and so on and so forth . I had heard some bad things about this film . For starters , it was so poorly received on initial release that Gilliam took a hiatus from film-making and was depressed enough that he didn't want to make another movie until " 12 Monkeys " came along ( this is chronicled in the excellent documentary , " The Hamster Factor , " included on the " Monkeys " DVD ) . It went way over budget ( I believe somewhere around $50 million altogether , a huge amount at the time ) and flopped in theaters . It wasn't received well by critics or audiences . Seen now , it fits nicely into Gilliam's vision as a director . It has ties to " Time Bandits , " Monty Python ( Eric Idle's in this as well ) , " Brazil " and even " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas . " The plot is often overwhelmed by the visuals , but that happens with many fairytale stories - the story isn't as important as the world the characters are living in . Gilliam brings the world to life and it's a real shame a film as unique and daring as this took him out of film-making for seven years . ( Granted , " The Fisher King " was made before " 12 Monkeys , " but it's the least Gilliam-ish of all his films - and ironically it remains his biggest hit at the box office . )
I used to love this movie .	Momma used to say if you haven't seen this movie , skip the second paragraph , ' cause it's got some of ' dem magic spoilers Maybe my inner cynic finally got to me . I've seen " Forrest Gump " about seven or eight times altogether , and these last few viewing experiences left me with a bitter taste in my mouth . A few years ago I praised this film for being delightful , warm , inspiring , epic , etc . It was one of my top-ten favorite films . I loved it . I watched it again last night and was struck by how smug , contrived and self-conscious it is . It's almost sickeningly sweet - it's a fantasy ( as I've always said ) and all the characters live their lives to suit the story . I loved the poetic justice before - now it's kind of insulting . The character of Jenny is , story-wise , a nice addition because all fairy tales have the hero and his girl . The setup is firm because it presents her as the only girl of Forrest's life , the one person who accepts him for who he is - as she grows up and changes he's always there for her . The ending is a nice full circle . But the fact that the film kills her off is too righteous . It's like , " Hey , she did the sex , she did the drugs - SHE DIES ! Who cares if she had a change of heart ? She's a filthy skank ! " Forrest's " Momma " is a right-wing Christian fanatical who has an obsessive hold over Forrest . She's a bit like the mother in " Bubble Boy , " except in this films she's presented as a hero . And finally we come to Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump . Last year I thought it was one of the all-time best performances in any film . Now , I can barely stand listening to him . It's all so smug and annoyingly sweet . " Would you like a choc'-uh-lut ? " You feel like slapping the guy . Then taking his darn " walkin ' shoes " and throwing them in a pool of gasoline and lighting them on fire . Along with his box of chocolates . Forrest's smug attitude is a bit too self-knowing for my tastes . It's like he's saying a big screw-you to all the people who disagree . He's Uncle Sam's Favorite American - the dumb guy who was too stoo-pid to say no to the government , and in return was awarded with millions of dollars and a happy , content life . All the Vietnam protesters were pigs , praise America . As far as " retard " characters go , Dustin Hoffman is still my favorite . Leonardo DiCaprio in " What's Eating Gilbert Grape ? " is really good , too . But Hanks ' performance is just a bit too self-confident and mugging - it's too damn innocent and naive . As I said , this used to be one of my very favorite movies . I loved it . It used to move me to tears at times . ( Well , almost , anyway . ) But I guess I've given my inner cynic too much room to grow - now I see it as a smug , annoying little journey through America's pop culture - with a message at its core that says , " Don't mess with America - or you'll get the Gump . " America has enough blind love going already .
Poor crude sexual humor with very sporadic laughs	Deuce Bigalow is a fish tank cleaner who agrees to stay at a European gigalow's house while he's away on business . However after he trashes the man's apartment he has only one option : to pose as the European and start selling his body for money so that he can pay for the damage done to the house . Rob Schneider would probably be nowhere without Sandler and it's a bit sad that they continually rely on each other with cameos , etc . in each of their films - here Sandler produces the film through his Happy Madison company and lends a brief voice cameo . However this movie really isn't funny and although I enjoy some of Schneider's work ( more so than most of Sandler's ) he's quite pathetic here and not very funny at all . He's much better as a co-star rather than a leading man , as proved with other projects such as " The Animal . " Schneider simply doesn't have the leading man qualities and that is stressed here - part of the film's failure is due to his lackluster ( albeit fairly likable and occasionally funny ) performance . The film's biggest flaw however is its stupid script and direction - it simply doesn't have very many jokes and is wacky in a bad way ( think : " The Hot Chick " meets " Master of Disguise " ) . The gags almost all rely upon sex , bodily fluids / sounds and / or other such crude innuendo for laughs - and it very rarely delivers any . There are a few funny segments but for the most part , all the funny stuff is on the trailer - which is never a good sign for a " comedy " . . .
Entertaining : nothing less , nothing more .	" Firewall " is good old-fashioned entertainment . It's nothing more . It doesn't attempt to become the next master-thriller ; nor does it try and achieve some type of infallible status , which is interesting since so many people here on the IMDb message boards have taken it upon themselves to dissect the plot to lengthy extremes . One user claims it's a technical error that Harrison Ford's character , Jack , uses a Windows operating system instead of Unix or Linux . People , it's a movie . And for the record , it was a personal computer in his office , not the computer the bank's database was stored on . I think part of the reason so many people are picking it apart is because they're all computer geeks who feel the need to prove how unrealistic the technology is in the film . They feel offended that Hollywood would not accurately reflect their world . Well , now they will perhaps understand why WWII vets hated the movie " Pearl Harbor " and historians in general hate any historical epic that Hollywood puts out . As it is , I was pleasantly surprised by the film's honest presentation of modern technology . Most computer-movies over the past decade ( films such as " The Net " ) seemed to never show anyone using realistic operating systems , and - the thing that always bugs me the most - people in movies NEVER use a mouse ; they just use their keyboards to seemingly do everything . " Firewall " is different . Even the Internet browsers and screensavers in the movie are those used by average people . It lends the film a more authentic sense . The plot is silly : Jack ( Ford ) works at a bank , where he oversees the security systems . His family is taken hostage by a gang of ruthless crooks ( led by Paul Bettany ) who demand that Jack assist them in breaking past the bank's security systems to steal $100 million . A lot of it doesn't make sense . Apart from questionable technology ( Jack hooks up a scanner to an iPod so he can store database numbers on the hard drive - " It doesn't know the different between 10 , 000 songs and 10 , 000 bank account numbers " according to the script ) , the crooks are some of the most incapable thieves ever . They spent a vast amount of time following Jack in preparation for their heist , but know absolutely nothing about the bank - and aren't even aware that the security system has recently been changed , therefore disallowing them from breaking in the way they had hoped . Plus , there's no firewall in the movie , except for a lame metaphor at the end . However , I was entertained . It's not great film-making by any means , and with better direction and scriptwriting it could have been more plausible a thriller , but it works fairly well as it is . Ford delivers a typically reliable performance and wipes the floor with Bettany , who was a major disappointment ( what happened ? ! He should have made a fantastic villain ) . It's not Hitchcock but it's not terrible either .
The Con is On - And a Funny Con it is !	" Bowfinger " PLOT SPOILERS ( If you don't want to know the plot BASIS , do not read ; however , there are no spoilers per say ) . . . ' Bowfinger ' starts out with Bobby Bowfinger ( Steve Martin ) , an unsuccessful movie director who has oddly enough , at his ripe old age of forty-five , never directed a movie . Every week he puts a dollar away into a little tin to save up for his first movie . Well , now he has bills up to here and debts to pay , and some promising actors to satisfy with a script . And he's got the perfect script to make it all come true : ' Chubby Rain . ' It is about aliens coming down from space in raindrops , hence the name ' Chubby Rain . ' And Bobby Bowfinger has the perfect man for the film . He can already see the tagline ( well , I can , at least ) : ' And there is only one man who can stop them . Only one man who is an instant moneymaker , audience-attractor and action-hero . Kit Ramsey . ' Eddie Murphy plays Kit Ramsey , a successful billion-a-film movie star who has been having some paranoid delusions recently . He goes to a therapist whenever he sees these visions , and the therapist calms him . But he has no idea what he is in store for . After Bowfinger tries to contact Kit in an effort to attract him to the ' Chubby Rain ' script ( to no avail , obviously ) , Bowfinger hatches a ludicrous plan . A plan that might just work . Who says actors need to know that they are in a movie ? What if they were just . filmed , staged ? What if you sent an actress up to an actor on the street , told the actress what to say , and filmed it . It could come across that the actor she is talking to is part of the movie . And that is exactly what Bobby Bowfinger does . He films Kit without Kit knowing he is filming him ( it all sounds so confusing , but it really isn't ) . But after Bowfinger's actors go up to Kit and speak to him on the street , Kit thinks that the actors are aliens , and his therapist puts him in a secret mental hospital ( rehab ? ) unit . Bobby Bowfinger is left without an actor . So now , the game is on , as Bobby must find a Kit look-a-like . Fortunately for Bobby , he has just found Kit Ramsey's dorky , nerdy twin Jiff : a braces-boasting , gum-chewing , thick-rimmed glasses wearing , loveable freak . But there are more surprises just around the corner for Bobby , as Kit is released from the mental rehab unit and is chased by Bowfinger's actors again , leading to the film's climax . ( ' Got you , suckas ! ' ) Well , now I will evaluate the cast , because the cast of ' Bowfinger ' is very ensemble . Steve Martin is great in his role as Bowfiner , a hassled director who must resort to an all-time low of filming . But what is great are Martin's dumb-grin expressions throughout the film that make him look like a little child . I have now seen two Eddie Murphy films in two nights : ' Bowfinger ' and ' I Spy , ' his performance in both surprising me . In ' I Spy ' he fit Kelly Robinson like a glove , using his loudmouth antics to full advantage , for once . In ' Bowfinger , ' Murphy uses his talent to his full advantage as well , convincingly pulling off an egotistical actor and nerdy geek . Heather Graham plays an actress wannabe who sleeps with every man on set of the movie to get her way ( s ) . Robert Downey , Jr . has a small role as a film producer ; he is in the film in the very beginning , about five seconds in the middle , and at the very end . I'd estimate his screen presence at about four minutes total . Jamie Kennedy plays Bobby Bowfinger's assistant and friend ; he works in a back-lot film studio . To help film the ' Chubby Rain ' movie , Kennedy's character ' borrows ' film equipment from the film studio and returns it to them before night . Kennedy was very good in this movie , as he is in his television show ' JKX ' ( The Jamie Kennedy Experiment ) . Now , on to the interesting aspects of the film : ' Bowfinger ' has some very interesting and hilarious sequences , including one segment where Bowfinger is having Kit run across a traffic-packed highway during rush hour for the movie he is filming . Hands down the best scene in the film . The movie also has some interesting ' con ' ideas , which are very provocative and thought provoking . For instance , Bowfinger sets a camera in a large tree-clipper truck , sets Kennedy up there , drives on a highway and films Kit Ramsey in his car , who is being chased by one of Bowfinger's actors . Who would ever think of that ? Only Steve Martin , the writer of this film . The thing that makes this movie so funny is the fact that Kit Ramsey has no clue whatsoever about what is going on . One of Bowfinger's actors ( the guy who wrote the ' Chubby Rain ' script ) walks up to Kit and , using a special prank , cuts off his own arm ( of course it's a fake arm , but Kit thinks it is real and runs away ) . Unfortunately , believe it or not , I was overall a bit disappointed in the movie . Yes , it is a clever parody of the film industry , and it was not a bad film at all . It was quite funny . But frankly , I was expecting more laughs after reading so many good reviews and finding out Martin wrote the script . stars - John Ulmer
Entertaining .	" In & Out " is an instantly forgettable but entertaining comedy about a high school drama teacher ( Kevin Kline ) whose ex-student ( Matt Dillon ) , now a huge Hollywood star , wins a Best Actor Academy Award and " outs " his teacher live on television . The problem is that his teacher isn't gay - - in fact he's engaged to be married to his long-time sweetheart ( Joan Cusack ) . Essentially the entire film is about one man coming to terms with his own sexuality and realizing that perhaps he isn't who he thought he was . This was supposed to very clearly be a satire of homophobia and the macho-male attitude ( displayed in the sequence where Kline takes " man lessons " and winds up dancing flamboyantly , unable to control his " manliness " ) . As such it's entertaining but not quite as substantial as it thinks it is . I don't really like the constant preaching - at first it's OK but after a while it gets a bit old . We get the point . Also I thought the ending was a bit dubious , I understand what they were trying to get across but it didn't seem realistic and Kline's character goes through a seemingly overnight change . This is a piece of liberal propaganda to be sure ( it pushes the boundaries on everything in a PG-13 movie - - male-kissing in particular , something you didn't get a lot of back in ' 97 ) and that will probably turn some people off . But Kline is very funny and believable as a repressed gay man . Some of the " misunderstanding " physical humor scenes are very funny ( this is stuff in the vein of " American Pie " and such where things happen to the main characters and they suffer extreme embarrassment ) . Director Frank Oz ( voice of Yoda and the Muppets , director of " The Score " ) handles the material rather well ( up until the ending ) and Tom Selleck has a funny role as a gay anchor man . All in all , " In & Out " will entertain you to be sure ; its performances are funny , it has some good physical humor , it has amusing cameos and its satire of sexuality and homophobia is better than expected ; unfortunately some of it is a bit too schmaltzy and unbelievable to take seriously , and that's what restricts it from being a better film . If you just want a good rental , though , you could do a lot worse .
Childish ? Yes , but it's entertaining - and at times pretty funny , too .	Kevin Smith's career has been something of a downward spiral since " Clerks " came out in 1994 over ten years ago , but " Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back " - his fifth entry in the View Askew " Trilogy " - is at the very least an entertaining and clever film . Packed with star-studded cameos - George Carlin , Will Ferrell , Ben Affleck , Carrie Fisher , Seann William Scott , et al - it's also got a wicked sense of humor and - although it is VERY crude and childish - a lot of the humor is also quite clever . The worst bits are when writer-director Kevin Smith reverts to his comic book tendencies ( upon which the film is based to begin with ) and turns " Strikes Back " into a geek-movie . The movie has appearances from characters from other Smith films - Randal , Dante , Holden , and so on - and Jay and Silent Bob of course return . The movie will entertain fans of Smith's work - non-fans will find it to be rather crude ( too crude , perhaps ) but I nevertheless found it to be quite entertaining . Plus , you get to stare at Shannon Elizabeth in a tight leather suit for a majority of the film's runtime , which can't be TOO bad .
Entertaining but hardly worthwhile	The only thing that can be said for " Money Talks " is that it held my interest . No , it's not a great film , but then again few comedies of this sort are . For what it is , the film entertained me enough to recommend it . Tucker and Sheen have rather good chemistry together , albeit it in a less-than-spectacular way . Essentially the plot is a bunch of nonsense , it's just an excuse to see another white man / black man buddy comedy in the vein of " Lethal Weapon , " " Running Scared , " etc . This is not a " good " movie but if it's on TV you might as well give it a go , it's hardly awful and certainly better than it could have turned out to be .
Funny , but not very funny	Will Ferrell and Molly Shannon were like two peas in a pod on " Saturday Night Live . " They had good chemistry and when they combined forces they could induce plenty of laughs . Of course , Will Ferrell is equally funny without Molly Shannon . " The Best of Molly Shannon " proves it is exactly the opposite for her . Yeah , she's a funny lady , but she pales in comparison to such " SNL " comediennes as Gilda Radner , Jane Curtain , and even Chery Oteri , who is very goofy . Molly Shannon's " Best Of " collection is fine , I suppose , but I didn't laugh that much - - and not nearly as often as I did with Will Ferrell's " Best Of " DVD . Here she plays her most famous ( and mostly original ) characters : Salley O'Malley , Mary Katherine Gallagher , Courtney Love and Anna Nicole Smith ( in a disgusting but funny segment with Ben Affleck ) , among others . But they're never exactly laugh-out-loud funny ; I smiled a few times . I enjoyed some of the gags . But I was only really laughing when Will Ferrell was interacting with Molly . Whether or not they are good films is definitely arguable , but there's a reason that Will Ferrell has been cast in virtually every mainstream Molly Shannon film . They go together . She cameos in his movies , he cameos and / or stars in hers . Remember " Superstar " ? Remember " A Night at the Roxbury " ? Maybe they're not good , but at least Lorne Michaels was smart enough to realize that the two have some sort of chemistry . I noticed that Molly Shannon likes to move around a lot . I watched the Conan O'Brian interview with her ( included on the DVD ) , and she absolutely could not sit still at all , just like her " Joyologist " character , who , in the DVD's outtakes , flipped over her chair from moving around so much . She's good as Courtney Love , and Molly Shannon is undoubtedly a good comedic actress , but to say that she deserves her own collection of best moments at this point in time is a bit presumptuous , especially considering the fact that classic " SNL " actors have yet to appear in any sort of " Best Of " DVD collections . ( Or am I just not finding them on Amazon and in the stores ? ) Besides , most of the compiles sketches aren't even that great - - or is it just that Molly Shannon herself isn't that great ? I hope it's the former . If you're a fan of Molly Shannon and / or " Saturday Night Live , " I would definitely pick up this DVD . I bought it for fourteen dollars , and I've got to say that I'll probably return to it once and a while for some good grins . But not nearly as often as I am already returning to " The Best of Will Ferrell , " which still stands as the best " Saturday Night Live " DVD I own at the current time ( only three , but I'm getting there ) . " Saturday Night Live : The Best of Molly Shannon " runs 76 minutes . It contains outtakes , a deleted dress rehearsal scene , a picture gallery , two TV interviews with Conan , and so on . It is not rated , but contains some language and sexual content / partial nudity . The feature's guest stars include , among others : Val Kilmer , Matthew Broderick , Gabriel Byrne , Tina Turner , Alex Baldwin , et al . It is now available on video and DVD .
Wait , wait , wait . John Travolta giving a good performance ?	I saw this film on a trans-Atlantic flight from the UK to the States . Being a long trip , I didn't want something entirely boring , so I started watching this , hoping it would at least be entertaining . Well , I hadn't heard much about it , but I was pleasantly surprised by the performances , even if the film itself isn't so great . Scarlett Johanssen plays Purslane , a young woman who returns to New Orleans after hearing of her mother's death , expecting to reclaim her old home . Unfortunately two of her estranged mother's friends now live in the house - Bobby Long ( John Travolta ) , a drunken former professor , and a younger guy named Lawson Pines . They are hard at work on a novel about Bobby's tumultuous life , and have no intention of leaving , which creates a strong tension . Although the movie is not particularly special and its " low budget " appeal certainly gives it that air of pretentiousness many indie films have today , the performances are great . I was wowed by Travolta because I haven't seen him give a good performance in a long , long time . It is a bit long-winded and slow-moving at times , but if you can appreciate the talents in this , I'm sure you'll enjoy at least some aspect of it .
An entertaining comedy with good performances .	An average every-day Joe ( Tim Robbins ) arrives home from work one day to find his wife in bed with his boss . Shocked and upset , he travels to a local ghetto - where a thug ( Martin Lawrence ) tries to carjack him . However , he no longer has any concern for his own well being and calls the carjacker's bluff - traveling from California to Arizona , eventually stopping at a gas station . The two bond over time and devise a scheme to rob money from a safe belonging to Robbins ' boss . The movie's main interest to me is that it had been directed by Steve Oedekerk . ( If I spelled his name wrong , I apologize , because I always seem to . ) Oedekerk is a very funny guy and has written and directed some unique comedies - unfortunately most of his mainstream stuff has been unsuccessful so far . " Ace Ventura II " wasn't a failure but " Kung Pow : Enter the Fist " was a complete flop ( I for one enjoyed it ) . Despite his faults , Oedekerk is consistently different - " Kung Pow " was unique and ambitious . " Nothing to Lose " doesn't really come across as one of his movies , but nevertheless it is quite entertaining and does what it intends to do . Some scenes are a bit too long or just not very funny , and Lawrence and Robbins don't have " Lethal Weapon " style chemistry . But it's good enough for the movie , and their performances overall are fine . Although it borrows some ideas and themes from older films like " Fun with Dick and Jane " as far as the vault robbing goes and ( dare I mention it in one of my reviews yet AGAIN ) " Planes , Trains & Automobiles " so far as the road travel blunders go , it's a good movie that just doesn't try hard to be anything it isn't - it fits nicely into its groove and entertains while causing a few chuckles .
Even Though it's Almost Exactly the Same As the Original , it's Still Worth Seeing . . .	Home Alone 2 ? Some Minor SpoilersHe's up past his bedtime in the city that never sleeps . After the tragic events of the first ' Home Alone ' film , a now ten-years-old Kevin McCallister is having a bit of a problem . He's been left by his family . Again . Only this time , he's not at home . He's home alone ? in New York City ! And ? wait for it ? there are some reminiscent faces in this sequel that may be more than reminiscent ? criminals Harry and Marv are in NYC too , and they have payback for young Kevin ? The original cast and crew are reunited for an all-too-familiar sequel in this star-studded comic fantasy . Macaulay Culkin is ( supposedly ) ten or twelve in this sequel . I can't remember . Anywho , he looks almost exactly the same as he did in the last film . Maybe that's because ' Home Alone 2 ' was filmed barely a year after the first was released , giving Culkin little room to grow . ' H : 2 ' is basically the height of Culkin's career before he went on to star in flops such as ' The Good Son ' ( not only a box office flop , but an awful , dull movie ) . John Heard and Catherine O'Hara are back as well , as Peter and Kate McCallister . Thank goodness they got them back for the sequel , otherwise , this would have been a bad movie . But the actors that I am very surprised they got back for this sequel , and both really made this movie , are Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern as Harry and Marv respectively . After Pesci and Stern's characters escape from jail , they come to New York and spot Kevin walking down the street , and instantly plan on getting revenge , all the while planning a heist of a toy store on Christmas Eve ! That's where Kevin steps in and creates some all too familiar ( literally the exact same as the first ) booby traps to stop the thieves ? This movie takes some fresh scenes ? Kevin checking into an expensive hotel with his father's credit car ? but never enough . Almost all the scenes are re-hashed from the original , leaving little room for new material . They even go for a sentimental bird-lady scene , much like the one with the shovel man from the first movie ? Nevertheless , the sequel still has some good moments . Hotel owner Tim Curry walking into the hotel room and seeing the outline of a man in the shower comes to mind ( Kevin has an inflatable clown his Aunt bought him in the shower to fool Curry ) , and I only wish they had come up with some more original booby traps at the end . That's the downfall of this film . With a few more cameos than the first film ( Herbert Hoover ) , ' Home Alone 2 : Lost In New York ' is worth seeing , even if originality isn't its main trait . I also wish they could have brought back John Candy as a small cameo ( reprising his role as Gus Polinski : Polka Band Chief ) for the film , but they didn't . Oh well . There are some other good stars in this film , anyway ? ' Saturday Night Live ' skit man Rob Schneider co-stars . stars ( as opposed to 4 . 5 for the first film ) John Ulmer
The nonlinear storytelling is unnecessary and the film as a whole is just so-so	I loved " Memento . " The nonlinear storytelling was key to the story itself and as a result complimented the overall nature of the film ; however , " 21 Grams " features the same style of nonlinear narrative without having an actual point . This movie could just have easily been told in chronological order and it would have had the same effect . In fact , if one were to unravel it and place the scenes in order , I'm sure they'd find nothing to be surprised at : it's a fairly basic drama and the nonlinear elements , I think , are just a way of making it seem cleverer and more important than it actually is . The performances , on the other hand , are superb . Sean Penn is excellent and Naomi Watts delivers her best yet . Benicio Del Toro is quite good as well ( even if his character seemed a bit reminiscent of some earlier ones he'd played ) and I felt sympathy for all three , especially Del Toro , as we realize everything that happened was a result of his trying to be wholesome and " clean . " And it backfired enormously . Overall " 21 Grams " was a rather large disappointment when I saw it as I had heard so much hype about it . I didn't find the storytelling awe-inspiring or important , it just made the film seem showy and artificial , as if they were afraid it wouldn't be able to stand on its own as a motion picture without some type of gimmick . Recommended , but don't expect too much .
The Farrelly Brothers ' Worst . . .	" Me , Myself and Irene " is the Farrelly Brothers ' painfully unfunny and inconsistent follow-up to their smash hit " There's Something About Mary . " They seemed to be on a roll - - " Dumb and Dumber " was a hoot , " Kingpin " was a blast , and " Mary " was outrageous . Now they've sunk into what they so marginally avoided in their previous films - - downright crudeness and stupidity . This isn't to say that their previous efforts were lacking crudeness . But what made the films funny were the characters and their good intentions ( or bad intentions in the case of Pat Healy ) . " There's Something About Mary " is a strong R-rated film , no doubt , and the hair gel scene would turn off almost every viewer , I think , if not for the innocence of the characters and our attachment to them - - by the time we come around the scene we already cared for them . The characters in " Me , Myself and Irene " are given little background , and when they do it comes off as a very superficial life . It starts with an 18-year veteran of the Rhode Island police named Charlie ( Jim Carrey ) . After his wedding , Charlie gets attacked by a vicious midget - - who also happens to be black . The little man is overly-sensitive and very insecure , and so he goes after Charlie with his belt . Yeah , it's sort of funny , but not as funny as it could have been . Anyway , we find out the midget man is a member of MENSA . Charlie's new wife is the head of MENSA or something . Love at first sight . Charlie's wife gives birth to three black children . Charlie realizes that they are black ( " They have a tan all year long , " says a neighbor ) but , being the sensitive and insecure person he is , he simply ignores the fact and tucks it way back in his head . Eventually his wife leaves him for the midget . Years later , Charlie's kids are older . They're foul-mouthed but incredibly smart . Me thinks making them talk very educated would have actually made it a great bit funnier than having their every other word be the almighty F-word , but I won't complain . He finally snaps under pressure and a new personality erupts - - Hank . Hank defecates on the neighbor's lawn , sticks a little girl's head in a pool of water and almost drowns her , crashes a car through the front of a building , and so on and so forth . Enter Renee Zellweger as Irene , a runaway golf course attendant being chased by criminals who thinks she knows too much about something . The cops are in on it and so Charlie and Irene run away . Only problem ? Hank is about to appear again and wreak havoc . The film resorts to low-brow humor , but it's just plain mean , and not all that funny . " Mary " was sweet and funny and crude and funny and mean and funny . " Me , Myself and Irene " is just plain mean and mean and crude and crude and a bit funny . I laughed a few times but they weren't big laughs . This is a very dark comedy that perhaps portrays the Farrelly Brothers ' taste for darkness , but forgets to portray their humor . There's a scene with Charlie trying to kill a cow that's funny , but what's with the ongoing jokes about " Whitey " the albino ? I don't really mind the political incorrectness - - it's just not funny ! They eventually use Whitey as a cheap plot device who becomes their friends , as if they felt sorry for making fun of him . Isn't one of the pinnacles of the Farrelly's humor political incorrectness with no reservations ? This movie resorts to something I thought I'd never see in a Farrelly Brothers movie - - conventional plot devices . The plot behind the mess is just distracting from the rest of the movie . Everything from Whitey the albino to Dickie the gangster is all so typical . And the film's real problem is that it thinks Hank is funny . Every time it starts to lose steam it pulls out Charlie's alter ego and tries to use it as a last-ditch effort for laughs . Hank is not funny . Now , the possibilities of what Hank could DO are very funny - - but the Farrellys only use him as a device for a few laughs , sex jokes , and physical fights between Charlie ( both fighting through Carrey's body ) that is funny but underplayed . I would have paid eight bucks just to see Carrey fighting himself because he is good at physical comedy - - but the movie seems to drag on with the idea of split personality disorder without ever making good use of it . I wondered how much funnier it would have been if the Carrey character , Charlie , had two alter egos who fought inside him . Then there would be almost constant changes . But Hank appears only when the film starts to run out of steam . And sadly , this film is always out of steam . Note : The Farrellys have inserted various cameos in this film . Owen , a mentally retarded man who knew the Farrellys as boys ( and yes , the inspiration for Owen in " Mary " ) can be seen in the background , as well as John J . Strauss , co-writer of " Mary , " and Lin Shaye , who played Magda in " Mary , " and Pat Healy , the name of Matt Dillon's character , is in the background ; and finally , the ending where Charlie is looking for his thumb in the water is the original ending of " There's Something About Mary , " with Ted ( Ben Stiller ) getting hit by a bus . The script called for Mary and passersby to start searching for vital parts of his anatomy ( including one major part ) , but they had neither the time nor budget to do this . When " Irene " came around , they knew it was their chance . It didn't quite work as planned . .
Pretty amusing spin on the tale	This movie proposes that Sherlock Holmes is in fact a drunken idiot and Watson , his humble detective , is the real mastermind behind the investigations . " Without a Clue " isn't a great film but it works mainly due to its refreshing twist on the tale . Ben Kingsley plays Watson very well . He's not really the funnyman ; he's the straight player and Michael Caine , as Sherlock Holmes , is the goofy and physically humorous one of the pair . When Watson grows tired of the fake Holmes ' inactive life style and drunken oafishness , he decides to go it alone - only to realize the public wants the creature he has created , and not he himself . " Without a Clue " isn't the best or funniest comedy in the world but it works . It's likable and entertaining . I can't strongly recommend it , but if it comes on TV or you happen to pass by a copy at the local video store , it's worth a peek ; who knows , you might really like it ! Some people I know do .
Not as good as the book , but watchable	Michael Crichton is a very good author - he appeals to the masses without dumbing down his material and making it simplistic like John Grisham ( no offense to Grisham , his books are usually somewhat entertaining ) . " Disclosure " was a book Crichton wrote that differed from many of his other manuscripts insofar as that it does not deal at all with science fiction , but rather with realistic work-place scenarios - like " Airframe " and " Rising Sun . " Michael Douglas plays the lead character in the film , who is seduced by his sexy boss and ex-girlfriend ( Demi Moore ) , who decides to have her way with him right in the office . However , he soon faces losing his job after she claims he sexually harassed HER - and from here the trials and accusations commence . " Disclosure " is not a great film - it could have been much better . With Barry Levinson , Michael Douglas and even Demi Moore attached ( hey , she's easy on the eyes at least ) it could have at least been really tense and exciting - but it's rather predictable and flat . However , it is still watchable , and far from the unmitigated disaster everyone made it out to be . You'll enjoy it if you don't think too hard or expect too much .
Starts off well but runs out of steam	This movie is based on the alleged true story of a plane that crash-landed high in the Andes , and the crew of passengers who began to starve to death - until they realized that , in order to stay alive , they'd have to begin to eat their buried . The summary may sound gruesome but the main problem with this movie is that it ISN'T gruesome - at all . It should be a nerve-tingling " What if ? " and instead it's just a watered-down cannibal movie . I like the build-up . It takes well over an hour before they even begin to contemplate eating each other . It doesn't launch right into the action . The acting is OK , but far from Oscar-worthy performances . Ditto for the direction - capable , but not extraordinary in any way . Overall I do admire that this is a rather low-key , slow-moving movie but it could have been much better - with a better-developed script and a more talented cast ( including actors and director ) , perhaps someone daring enough to provide a necessary edge to the material , it could have been brilliant . Instead it's just kind of OK .
Don't get caught up in the hype and you may be able to enjoy it .	I'm not one of those high-and-mighty indie kids who scoffs at any film or artist as soon as they reach mainstream success ( see : Andrew Bird , Animal Collective , Feist , Cat Power , The Strokes for recent examples ) . I do get annoyed , however , when people follow trends they aren't really a part of . You know , like the teenagers who walk around wearing Che Guevara t-shirts talking about how great Bob Marley is ? It's all social pop culture rubbish that irritates me on many levels . So I flinched when Juno ( Ellen Page ) says her heroes are Patti Smith and Iggy Pop and the Stooges in this film . Is Iggy Pop awesome ? Of course . Is " Raw Power " a great album ? Yes . Do fans of The Stooges refer to the band as " Iggy and the Stooges " and leave out " Fun House " when praising them ? No . " Raw Power " is the album people often associate with Iggy and the Stooges because it had the most success out of their three albums ( I'm not counting " The Weirdness " ) and is often considered the best , so it's the obvious empty choice someone who is unfamiliar with their actual work would choose to define them ; but a real self-respecting Stooges fan would know better , and they wouldn't refer to that band as Iggy Pop . And don't get me started on the Patti Smith reference . Or the Sonic Youth stuff . " Juno " plays like a film made by people who are jumping on a trend and attempting to popularize it . Wes Anderson already did this but he knew what he was doing and didn't market his films that way , and they've been thriving as far back as a decade now in indie cult status without 45-year-old soccer moms rushing out to stores to buy the " Rushmore " soundtracks . I can still listen to the Kinks without feeling like I've bought into some kind of marketing fad . But " Juno " has done a lot to make me feel guilty about driving around blaring " Raw Power " these days . Is that my own problem ? Certainly . But that smug , cutesy " fakeness " that permeates this entire film is the reason I don't think it's worthy of half the acclaim it's garnered . Maybe I'm too cynical . But what I see happening here is the following : the film is popularizing a social trend that , by its very definition , is anti-mainstream . Sonic Youth and other indie music began two decades ago and " Juno " is giving a thrill to Wal-Mart shoppers who are suddenly hearing all this " different " music ( like the Moldy Peaches ) that they never knew existed before . And they're fascinated by it . Moldy Peaches shot to the top of the digital charts after " Juno " came out ( Kimya Dawson's MySpace has taken a sudden revamp ) and my local record store sold " Raw Power " and " Horses " both for the first time in two years . I have nothing with turning people on to good music . I have a problem with programming people to follow social trends ( e . g . the aforementioned Che Guevara issue ) almost entirely unaware of what they're really doing . If people knew half the stuff Guevara had actually done they probably wouldn't feel comfortable wearing those shirts . Likewise , I have to question whether the sixty-something-year-old man I saw buying a soundtrack for " Juno " a couple weeks ago is really going to appreciate Sonic Youth . Maybe I sound like an elitist ? I'm really not . I think Sonic Youth are fairly overrated , for example ( although they're still very good ) mainly for the same reason I think " Juno " is overrated : people jump on certain trends and follow them . " Juno's " dialogue , as such , is derived from this self-conscious hipster crap that grates on my nerves so much these days . ( God help us if Diablo Cody continues this massacre . ) It starts from the very first scene ( using spins on pop culture phrases or items such as " Eggos " - har-har ) and doesn't let up . Ellen Page is a convincing actress but then you realize she isn't acting and she becomes less convincing . She's playing herself . Watch ANY interview with her from before or after " Juno " - she is this character . Is that a problem ? No , because to the extent of playing herself - a smug , condescending indie kid who doesn't know half as much as she thinks she does - it works for the film . But she's going to quickly reveal herself to be a one-trick pony as more people catch on to the fact that this character is actually her . Jay Leno didn't look too happy when he found out last week on his talk show . I suppose my rant took up most of my review but I think it explains in many ways my feelings towards this film's content . I found it somewhat amusing / entertaining and it had a few genuinely nice moments , but it's far from the masterpiece some like Roger Ebert would have you believe . It's popularizing this new-age indie hipster sarcasm and the film's going to influence a LOT of films on down the line over the next few years . NONE of them will have as much impact or success as " Juno " and then trends will change and it'll stop . But first we'll have to put up with a million clones of the same formula and more " witty " pop culture puns and dry sarcasm . Spielberg did this with the kids in his movies back in the ' 80s and the dire response of " Hook " finally caused him to cease and desist . Hopefully the transition for filmmakers right now won't take as long .
A sweet-natured film with good performances	Frankie ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) is a down-on-her-luck waitress in New York City . She lives with a gay roommate ( Nathan Lane ) who has a partner , but she still can't manage to find anyone . Johnny ( Al Pacino ) has just been released from prison and lands a job at a small diner in NYC . The same diner where Frankie works . Frankie and Johnny embark on a relationship that is predictable but enjoyable . The film was directed by Garry Marshall , perhaps the king of the sappy romantic comedies , and this one works about as well as any of his movies . Suffice to say if you enjoy romantic films you'll like this - it's sweet-natured , amiable and enjoyable . The performances are a highlight , and as a trivia note , it was Pacino's second pairing with Pfeiffer since the film " Scarface " almost a decade prior . .
In its entirety , just a fun movie	Brief Spoiler It's a breath of fresh air when an action movie these days simply resorts to the typical clichés and doesn't try to impress the viewer too much . Twenty years ago this would have been bad . Now , with each and every movie trying to surpass the last entry into the genre and , for the most part , ending up as an overblown bore , the standard action flicks are wanted more than anything . " Metro " ( 1997 ) is just that . It's got some of the oldest tricks in the books while adding lots of neat stunts and action pieces . Towards the end , the female love interest of the hero is tied to a metal mechanism that will slice the girl's head off if the red safety button is not pressed . The villain lets go , the hero presses the button as quickly as he can , and moments later the villain returns with a sports car , driving right towards the hero . If he lets go of the button , the girl's head comes off . If he doesn't move , though , the villain will run him over with the car and the girl will die anyway . What's he do ? It's the classic action ideas such as this that help the movie . It reminded me of those old silent movies where the dastardly villain would tie a helpless girl to a railroad track , then climb into his stolen steam train and surge down the track towards her . But " Metro " also leaves room for car chases and shoot-outs - in one scene , a San Francisco trolley is hijacked by the bad guy , and the hero pulls up alongside the trolley in a Cadillac , jumps aboard , fights the villain , ends up pushing the full speed lever , and ramming the trolley into cars and right off of its line . It proceeds to scrape along the sloping road , off its tracks , scraping metal , ramming into everything in its path . It reminded me of the car chase in " The Rock , " another good action movie with a visibly larger budget but the same fun quotient as " Metro , " which is " Beverly Hills Cop " meets " The Negotiator , " for the most part . Action movies always have setups that pay nothing to the movie other than a character introduction . " Metro " has a great one . We are introduced to the hero , Roper ( Eddie Murphy ) , who is not the film critic on Ebert & Roeper , the latter of whom I could not get out of my head every time the name Roper was said on-screen . Roper is a hostage negotiator . He talks down the bad guys from what they're doing , and when things get really bad he has to take drastic action - such as shooting the bad guy in cold blood . Roper does this in the beginning after a funny and original setup scene , in which he walks into a building with a bag of donuts . The hostage taker doesn't believe they're just donuts . " Open the bag ! " he says . His hostage takes the bag , opens it , and shows him donuts . " They're just donuts ! " he says . In another type of action movie , perhaps Roper would have concealed a gun in the donut bag . Not in " Metro , " which pays its respects to the other action movies such as " Beverly Hills Cop " that helped make Eddie Murphy what he is today . I read a short review on " Metro " that said Roper , Eddie Murphy's character , is another loud-mouthed , unlikable character of the sort that Eddie spoofed with Buddy Love in " The Nutty Professor . " I beg to differ . Sure , he's loud-mouthed , but what Eddie Murphy character isn't ? He's much more likable than some Murphy characters I can think of off-hand . I could go into the plot of " Metro , " but I'm not sure it really matters . For the most part , I've got to say it's routine but it has its little twists and surprising moments along the way . Roper is training a new kid to take his place some day . The kid is played by Michael Rapaport , who succeeds in making his character smart and equally likable . I knew what was going to happen to him . As soon as I saw him I said , " At the end he'll get shot but he'll survive . " Well , it happens . But for what it's worth , " Metro " is a lot better than I thought it would be , with some great action sequences , sly humor , likable characters , and plentiful nods towards the standard action films out there , some ( such as the decapitating machine ) dating back to the adventure films of the silent era . " Metro " is , in its entirety , a fun movie .
I recommend you sit down some night , grab a tub of popcorn , and just enjoy this movie for what it is : an instantly forgettable comedy that serves its purpose : a nice night in .	" The Wedding Singer " is a mix between just about any romantic comedy from the eighties that you can find , and an Adam Sandler film . I think that's really enough said . But if you want more detailed details , here ya go . . . Adam Sandler plays Robbie Hart , a failing wedding singer who has just been dumped by his fiance . So as he loses his only job and his to-be wife , Sandler starts to fall in love with the sweet Julia Sullivan ( Drew Barrymore ) , whom is engaged herself to another man . Now Robbie must prove that the man she is about to marry is really a playboy who wants one thing , before it's too late . " The Wedding Singer " is a pleasant enough comedy to enjoy one night , if not a great one . The laughs aren't constant , but there are some . It doesn't rank as high in the laugh category as Sandler's earlier film , " Happy Gilmore , " but it provides just enough sweetness and guffaws to recommend . The movie is filmed with a very eighties-feel , and that is mixed with the humor of Adam Sandler , so it's pretty easy to imagine what the film is going to be like . I recommend you sit down some night , grab a tub of popcorn , and just enjoy this movie for what it is : an instantly forgettable comedy that serves its purpose : a nice night in . stars - John Ulmer
Richard Pryor makes it better than it should be	This rather mediocre comedy from 1987 was produced at the height of Richard Pryor's ( somewhat unfortunate ) lapse into brain dead motion picture comedies . However , like most of his films , Pryor made standard , silly concepts - - in this case , a man mistaken for a doctor forced into pretending to be on - - amusing . Pryor plays a framed jewel thief who pleads insanity and is sent to a hospital for mental check-ups . However , once there is is mistaken for an actual doctor , and continues the charade to avoid being charged with a crime he didn't commit , etc . It's got a lot of obvious jokes that get old in five minutes - this would be an effective " SNL " skit , NOT a full-length movie . The problem with standard concepts such as these is mainly that once you've accomplished your goal - - ha ha a man pretending to be a doctor who doesn't know anything about medical practice , that's hilarious ! - - there's nowhere left to go . So they add boring and uninteresting subplots , typically romances which end with the mistaken man confessing he isn't who the woman who loves him thought he was , they break up , and then they get back together again for a happy ending in which she realizes that she really loves him for who he is , not for what he is . That said , Pryor makes this entertaining - more so than it should be .
If " There's Something About Mary " was the best of the sitcom comedies , " Lost & Found " is at the bottom of the barrel .	There seems to be some confusion about what is funny nowadays . Let me give filmmakers a clue . Funny Men Who Will Always Be Funny : Steve Martin , Bill Murray , John Candy , Bob Hope , Jack Lemmon , Walter Matthau , et al . People Who Are Not and Never Will Be Funny : David Spade . Now that we have that out of the way , let's get on , shall we ? " Lost & Found " is a marginally funny movie that only has a few funny gags . It is more of a sitcom stretched out to full length than a full-length motion picture . There are conveniently close-living love interests . Poor characters live in luxurious apartments . The main characters all exchange lines we would expect their writers give them to say , and nothing realistic . This is beginning to sound like " Friends the Movie " . . . And there is a certain problem with enlisting David Spade as a romantic lead . 1 . He's a snotty little swine who , I think , many women would hate and not adore . 2 . He's annoying , and his humor is contradictory , making everything he says a contradiction . Which means when he wants to express his love to a woman , " I hate you " is the best choice . But let's be honest , can you imagine David Spade as a woman charmer ? Me , neither . Let's just say love , subtlety and truth are not his expertise . In my opinion , David Spade is not a funny guy . New ( er ) comedians like Adam Sandler at least have the visible urge to be funny , a sense of liveliness and joy . David Spade has neither . He just stands there , cracks badly-written lines in bad monotone , and expects us to laugh ; what's it all about , David ? " Lost & Found " is about an Italian restaurant owner named Dylan ( Spade ) , who is not Italian , but expects his patrons to ignore this . Dylan maintains a failing restaurant downtown , where he walks about and cracks jokes to the guests in his restaurant and scares little children . Dylan has a big future somewhere . Unfortunately , it doesn't seem to be on this planet . One day , after losing his clothes in a game of strip poker with a gang of old women , Dylan sees a beautiful woman ( Sophie Marceau ) living a few apartments down from him , playing an instrument and sitting by a window at night so naked men like Dylan can stand right outside , stare at her , and not be seen . We know there's going to be a joke about people walking outside their rooms and seeing Dylan , and - oh , here it is . Big surprise : It's handled badly , it's not funny , and the people who spotted Dylan have no urge to call the police . Why ? Easy : They're written characters just there for a cheap gag . No characters seem to make up their own choices . There's a bad case of Scripteritis and Writtenmonia in this film . In hopes of getting closer to the beautiful woman , Dylan decides to kidnap her small dog . He then shows up at her house and helps her search for the vicious animal . This goes on for a while , giving Dylan a chance to grow closer to Marceau . I do not know why Marceau's character would ever feel anything for Dylan , who parades around like a little brat throwing insults at her old boyfriend like , " I'm a local yokel " ( har-har ) . " Lost & Found " seems to want to be another " There's Something About Mary , " but it's lacking everything , right down to its obvious rip-off of the dog ( which bears a startling resemblance to the canine in " Mary " ) . " Mary " might have been a conveniently written comedy , but we cared enough for the characters and laughed enough at the jokes that we didn't care . There are no strong laughs in " Lost & Found , " and we don't care for the characters . And as we await the occasional chuckle , the convenience of the script becomes more and more apparent , as do the major flaws the film has . If " There's Something About Mary " was the best of the sitcom comedies , " Lost & Found " is at the bottom of the barrel . And for further notice , here are other comedians who are not funny : Chris Farley , Chris Rock , Norm Macdonald , Colin Quinn , Rob Schneider , Jimmy Fallon . stars - John Ulmer
Not as good as I'd heard it was , but still interesting and original !	I really recommend this film to you . While I wouldn't put it in my top 250 films ever , it's very interesting and original , and reading subtitles for a change is very fun . The cinematography is very nice-it is mainly what is so original about this film other than some other tidbits . It's really the definition of beautiful . The acting ( though I read the subtitles ) can still come clear through the foreign language , and you can still sense the changes in emotions , and sense good and bad actors regardless fo their language . The screenplay is brilliant . It's mesmerising and vivid , and I wouldn't have it any other way . I overall highly recommend this film to you . I give it stars-JOHN ULMER
A good war film , some fine moments , I rate it a " 4 " of 5 . . .	Fine war film with a top-notch cast , including Sean Penn and John Travolta in a small role . Essentially another war film that came out around the same time as " Saving Private Ryan , " it's a fine war film that actually seems fresher than Kubrick's " Full Metal Jacket , " which I think is a total rip-off of " Platoon " from the middle onwards . All in all this is a definite worthwhile motion picture and a great cast . I'm a bit surprised it received " 7 Oscar Nominations " as the video cover boasts , but I'm not as surprised at that as I am that Empire magazine just voted " The Fellowship of the Ring " the best movie - - ever . Weird things happen .
Nothing of actual substance , but moderately entertaining	The withering latter-end of 1960s cinema gave birth to a short-lived area of mainstream artistic vision - the 1970s was a decade wherein " the director was the star of the movie . " I've never thought of it this way , but as the documentary points out , it's a valid and poignant summary of the time period . This documentary - based on the best-selling book - offers an in-depth analysis of the film-making process of the 1970s . . . it starts out with " Easy Rider , " from the late ' 60s , which became a huge box office success despite its profane content and extremely low budget . The financial success of the movie seemed to spawn a new generation of artistic , low-budget films - - Scorsese and Coppola seemingly leading the revolution onwards . Dennis Hopper would later fail with his semi-sequel to " The Last Picture Show " ( as chronicled here ) but other directors had success with their projects , attracting viewers despite the grungy themes of the films . I've heard that cinema " died " in the 1970s , so far as that people had stopped going to see movies . . . without the influx of 1980s blockbusters , we might not have films today . I think that's rather a stretch . If anything " Raging Bulls , Easy Riders " exaggerates the mild box office returns of the decade and tries to compensate for their low intake by citing critical praise for the films . . . all well and valid , when discussing the artistic merit . . . not financial gain . I found this to be a rather enjoyable documentary , but I didn't learn anything I hadn't already known . It's got some good interviews , but they're not as insightful as they are amusing anecdotes . If you are a film student , you could probably view a better and more in-depth summary of the decade ; however , for novices , this is good starting ground .
I can see what people admire and praise about it - but I think some are going too far .	" Knocked Up " is a well-made , enjoyable comedy about the consequences of an unprotected one-night stand . It has dual lessons for its lead characters : Seth Rogen has to learn to grow up and accept responsibility and Katherine Heigl has to choose between a professional life as a television interviewer or a possibly less rewarding ( as she sees it ) life as a stay-at-home mom . And because it's Judd Apatow , he handles the sex gags carefully and with enough maturity that it doesn't become another stale sex comedy . But I think some people jumping on the Apatow bandwagon are so eager to praise him as the " Savior " of the sex-comedy genre that they are overlooking some of the film's flaws . First of all , if we're going to be picky , the comedy isn't very consistent . Which is OK - I'd prefer it that way - but when you see reviews touting it as " the funniest movie of the year , " expectations can't help but build . I didn't think the acting was as good as in " The 40-Year-Old Virgin . " Seth Rogen is a great supporting actor - but I find him rather irritating as a lead character . His revelation at the end of the film , too , isn't very believable - they spend so much time focusing on his life as a slacker that the transition between him being a man-child and accepting responsibility is as realistic as a " Rocky " training montage ; he has a heartfelt talk with his dad ( Harold Ramis ) and suddenly he's 100 % willing to become committed . Okay . I'm not a big Heigl fan , but she fit the role well here . Paul Rudd was the real scene-stealer , though . But he's thrown off-balance by the casting of Apatow's wife - can he PLEASE stop putting her in all his movies ? She can't act . Overall , this is an OK comedy - better than most of its genre - and the drama is more realistic than most sex comedies , but some people were so willing to jump on it as a " masterpiece " of its genre before it even came out that the hype just killed it for me .
A mixed bag .	" The Doors " is one of my all-time favorite bands , I love just about every one of their songs , most of all " Light My Fire , " " Break On Through , " " Peace Frog , " " The End , " " L . A . Woman , " " Roadhouse Blues " and so on and so forth . This movie doesn't do the band justice . It's all about Jim Morrison , played by Val Kilmer . It should have just been called " Jim : The Druggish Semi-True Biography . " It's all about visual style , and little substance . Even for a film about Jim , it's not very well-made . Jim's childhood is almost totally ignored - there's an opening sequence about an Indian spirit carrying over into his soul , but that's it . His lover back in the ' 60s , a self-proclaimed " witch , " says on the DVD that the " real Jim Morrison " she knew and loved is " not in this movie . " Oliver Stone even complains that he felt Meg Ryan's performance as Jim's wife was too self-conscious and unconvincing . I totally agree . As Stone points out , she's too self-aware - - she covers her nudity in one scene , and that would have never happened back in the ' 60s , ESPECIALLY if you were alone , with your husband , in bed . Val Kilmer sounds and acts the part well but really doesn't look much like Jim . It doesn't matter because he's so convincing through his physicality that his features don't detract from the realism - I never for a moment thought , " It's just Kilmer . " It's too bad that such a great performance is wasted on a movie that is just OK . Visually , " The Doors " is superb . It's really trippy , " Apocalypse Now " - style stuff that captures the tone of The Doors , as well as the era itself . It has a few moments of good energy and character exploration , such as Jim's exposure to a crowd shortly before his death . But overall Stone focuses on the visual too much and not enough on the story itself . The soundtrack rocks , the cinematography and outer layer of the film is amazing - but that's about it . Hopefully someone will come along in the future and match the visuals of this film , but add a heart and soul - after all , that's what Morrison was most famous for during his time , and it's just a little ironic that the film lacks passion and soul .
I liked it	I saw " Muppets from Space " when it first came out and thought it was a lot of fun . It's silly , good-natured and has some clever adult humor that kids won't pick up on - as well as featuring zany stuff that the kids will love . Since then I've seen it numerous times on TV and it always entertains . The story is fairly original for being a Muppet movie : Gonzo begins to wonder what he is , and if there are any more of his species out there in the vast beyond - and suddenly one day he's abducted by aliens who reveal themselves as his distant relatives . Placed back on earth , Gonzo is unable to convince anyone - but is sure that his family will soon arrive on earth to take him home . As far as the Muppet movies go this isn't the best one - my favorite is still " The Great Muppet Caper " with Charles Grodin followed by " Muppets in Manhattan " - but if you're in the right mood you'll find this is an amiable little family comedy that isn't insulting or boring . The cameos are great fun for any film buffs out there and the basic juvenile humor will appeal to children .
Not great comedy - but a fun , lightweight movie that serves its purpose and is thoroughly entertaining	Instantly reminiscent of " It's a Wonderful Life " and " Bruce Almighty , " " Click " is a simplistic and lightweight comedy that serves its purpose as distracting entertainment . It's a typical summer comedy - nothing very deep or meaningful , but humorous with an obvious ( yet admirable ) message behind it . It's another Adam Sandler movie but not quite as crude as some of his others . It reminded me most of " The Wedding Singer " in terms of its humor - it's not as slapstick as some of Sandler's other works - but I actually preferred it to " Wedding Singer . " Sandler plays an average Joe who has trouble balancing time between work and family . He's a rising architect working at a firm for David Hasselhoff ( his casting was a pure stroke of comedic genius - well , it was a good choice , anyway ) and has been assigned to a new Japanese building , which ends up consuming all his time at home and makes him neglect his family . When he ventures to Bed , Bath & Beyond to purchase a universal remote control , he enters the Beyond Department and meets Morty ( Christopher Walken ) , who gives him a true universal remote - a remote control that can control his world . He can pause , fast-forward and rewind his life . With his newfound power Sandler finds time for work and family , but soon the device causes him to skip over too much of his life and before he knows it his kids are teenagers and so on and so forth . The plot is pretty obvious and so is the message - some critics have complained that the film's alternating between basic comedy and meaningful drama ( especially towards the end ) is annoying and off-balance - but I didn't mind it . Sandler is better than usual although not entirely believable as a married man or the husband of Kate Beckinsale ( who is stunning as usual ) . It's really Walken and The Hoff who steal the show - I loved Hoff's sexual harassment speech . ( Hoff : " Now , homosexual harassment . This is , like , when a dude touches another dude at work . " ) Overall , if you think you won't like this you probably won't . It's one of those movies where it meets your expectations - you can tell exactly what it's going to be like from the commercials , and if you think watching a lightweight Adam Sandler comedy for 90 minutes is a waste of time , I wouldn't recommend this to you . However , if you can appreciate the occasional brainless comedy then you'll probably find something worthwhile here . If you liked " Bruce Almighty " this will appeal to you .
Pretty Woman II	I remember when this came out there was a lot of hype built up around the fact that it was a reunion for Richard Gere and Julia Roberts . Everyone was raving about how great it would be to see them on screen together again , etc . Unfortunately it took a little while for people to notice , " Hey , this kinda sucks . " And it does . It is a rather dull affair structured on a weak and silly plot line - a reporter ( Gere ) investigates a " Runaway Bride " who has become notorious in a small US town for leaving her numerous fiancés at the aisle on wedding day . Of course we know who she will end up with from the get-go and this results in a dry series of " humorous " sequences in which Roberts and Gere act feisty and exchange jabs of dialogue at each other . I have never been a fan of Roberts so it is hard for me to praise any of her performances , although I do like Gere much more ( especially after seeing his performances in Primal Fear and Unfaithful over the past few years ) and they are adequate together . But really all this is is another excuse to cash in on the success of " Pretty Woman " back in 1990 - the result was a movie that indeed made millions and millions at the box office , which means ten years from now we will probably be seeing " Pretty Woman III - Runaway Teeth : The Julia Roberts Story . "
Overrated , But Still Funny . Kevin Kline Steals the Show . . .	John Cleese leads an all-star cast in this funny , but overrated crime comedy . Crooks Wanda ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) and her lover Otto ( Kevin Kline ) have successfully stolen millions of dollars worth of diamonds from a bank in London , England , along with George and a stuttering animal-lover , Ken ( Michael Palin ) . They hide the stash in a safe , then pretend that they will meet back in three days to fly somewhere away from England . But George goes back , hides the stash in an airport security deposit box , and puts the key to the safe in his pocket . However , he doesn't realize that Wanda and Otto are planning to turn him in to the police and take the loot for themselves . They do so , only one problem : When they go for the diamonds , they're not there . Now they must take a trip to George ( who is in jail , of course ) to discover where he has hid the jewels . George doesn't suspect Wanda , but suspects Otto of turning him in . He doesn't tell her where the jewels are . So Wanda meets with George's lawyer , John Cleese , the only man who George would talk to , and the only man who could possibly know where the diamonds are . Wands plays Cleese for information , but soon chaos ensues and the plot takes so many twists and turns it's hard to say what happens without ruining some gags . " A Fish Called Wanda " is probably a bit too fondly remembered . I heard so much about this movie and was really expecting a lot . Yes , it's funny , and yes , it has very funny moments , but I really expected more than I got . Writer-star John Cleese does a good job playing a British lawyer , or bannister , or whatever they are called in England . Curtis does a good job playing a smart thief who uses her good looks and charm to lure men into her trap . Michael Palin is great as a stuttering Ken . But the best of the cast is Kevin Kline as Otto . He is a wild guy who is both impulsive and aggressive . A bad mix . One of my favorite scenes is where he comes in to apologize to John Cleese , and finds a robber in Cleese's home , assaults the robber , then realizes it is Cleese himself , and says , " I'm sorry , I'm sorry , " then starts saying , " How was I supposed to know it was you ? I mean , what kind of person robs their own home ? Hey , yeah , what kind of person robs their own home , you idiot ! " And he starts to kick him . It shows how much of a problem this guy has . Another one of my favorites is just about anytime he and Michael Palin are on screen . Otto's mimicking of Ken ( " K-k-ken's c-c-c-coming to k-k-k-kill me ! " ) ranks high as a gut-grabber . But just about any scene with the two men is hilarious . The script is nice , and doesn't go overboard at anytime . But I still think the film is a bit overrated . I laughed , I had fun , but it wasn't one of the most memorable comedies I've ever seen . I've seen much better , to tell you the truth . stars - John Ulmer
Dude , Where's My Brain ?	Ashton Kutcher , of TV's " That 70's Show " and Sean William Scott of " American Pie " stature , have teamed together for what some would say a " Bill and Ted " comedy , but I would have to say a " Dumb and Dumber " trip in itself , without half the laughs . First off , let me say I think in a way , this film is underrated . What were people expecting , Citizen Kane ? But then , we can compare it to other comedies , and we find ourselves wondering how a film like this could be made . It's a real hit or miss , and there are more misses than hits , but sometimes , just sometimes , there are some funny moments . At the scene with the blind child and the " blind people handshake , " I could detect some Farrelly brothers humor , and I would not be surprised if the writer ( s ) of this film were trying to take after their idols , Bobby and Peter Farrelly . However , this is not near as funny as Dumb and Dumber , and if you though that film was bad , you'll hate " Dude , Where's My Car ? " It is in no way for those easily offended . I don't like when people say this is a rip-off of Bill and Ted . It actually isn't ; " Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure " had many more laughs , and the main characters weren't high on pot the whole way through the film . I would have to give this mindless , wandering film stars . It's not as bad as some say , and not as great as others speak of it . John Ulmer
Interesting , but far from being very scary at all . . .	Some of the best horror movies are those that imply rather than explode , hint at rather than expose . Fear is scarier than scariness itself - - scary is just scary . Fear is fear . And fear induces all else that follows . Fear gets you on the edge of your seat ; fear makes the hairs on your neck stand up . The scare comes afterwards . The movie is false , but knowing that ruins the surprise of it all . Three amateur filmmakers - - two guys and a girl ( where's the pizza place ? ) - - go into a Maryland wood , in hopes of uncovering the secret of the infamous Blair Witch , a legendary witch who is rumored to live in the woods . First they interview town folk and get their sworn testimonies . An old , apparently crazy woman insists that the Blair Witch appeared next to her in a lake once and was covered with beastly hair . ( That sent chills up my spine . ) Then they embark into the woods , equipped with video cameras and recording everything . But soon they get lost - - the map is pointless . They just keep going in circles . They walk around the woods for days , every night hearing strange sounds outside their tents and finding mysterious wooden ornaments hanging in a graveyard . " The Blair Witch " project is smart enough to know this , but that is about all I can credit the film for . It's that type of fear-inducing , thought-provoking horror movie not made since the likes of " The Exorcist " and " The Omen , " but when I was done watching it I realized that it hadn't really scared me at all . It had me thinking , yes , and it had me interested throughout , but it didn't scare me . After all the fear had settled there was no scare left . I viewed the film with all the lights in the room turned off , and yet it still didn't scare me . In fact , I found it to be rather ridiculous at times . But it is an admirable horror film , one that uses ancient techniques as opposed to chainsaw-wielding villains with ski masks chasing groups of very , very stupid , mentally under-developed big-breasted teenage bimbos around a house for hours in the dark , jumping out at the camera whenever we've gone too long without a jolt . No , " The Blair Witch Project " is all about insinuations and the unknown . I'll admit that the film is pretty darn creepy , if ineffectively scary . At one point , a group of three teenagers are asleep inside a tent , lost outdoors in a Maryland woods , when loud screams start coming from somewhere out there . They rush outside with the video cameras jolting about frantically . I was waiting any second for some ghostly pale figure to be seen far off in the woods . Which is part of my disappointment in the film . To unexpectedly catch a glimpse of something - - the witch , the ghost of the murderer , anyone and / or anything - - would have been terrific . To expose something ever so briefly so that you think , What was that ? and try to play back your videotape again to pause the image . But the film doesn't ever really approach the Blair Witch . Furthermore , it never really explains anything by the end of the film . And I understand that this is the appeal of the film for most people . BUT . . . I'm not asking to show the Blair Witch chasing them around . All I would have liked to see was at least an ever-so-brief glimpse of some unintelligible being . That would have been far spookier , because eventually you get to the point while watching the film when you realize it isn't going to show you anything , and you start to lose interest . This movie sent chills up my spine and made the hairs on my neck stand up at certain points . This is my kind of horror movie - - I'm not into the slasher flicks , primarily because I do not find them very scary at all . I'd rather have the images of the attacker lurking in the dark left up to me , not jumping forward at the screen . Am I contradicting myself ? I say I do not want to see the Blair Witch , but yet moments later I say I do . No , what I want to see is some effervescent being illuminated in the dark ever so briefly ; it would be the ultimate spine-tingler . Remember in " Signs " how M . Night Shyamalan showed the alien walking across the driveway at a birthday party ? Remember how you weren't expecting it , how sudden it was ? How quick ? I would have liked something like that - - just something very quick and very , very spooky . Not even as detailed as the alien - - some far away being standing in the middle of the woods , who suddenly disappears with a shriek . ( So that you never really see it at all , you just see the light and think , What was that ? ) The craving of seeing the attacker is part of the fun . In this case , my craving was never fully satisfied . .
A bit slow , to be honest	The most popular version of " Hamlet " seems to be Kenneth Branagh's 1996 adaptation , which many critics and audiences consider to be the finest modern Shakespeare film . However , before Branaugh had his go at it , Franco Zeffirelli ( " Romeo and Juliet , " " The Taming of the Shrew " ) took a stab once again at directing Shakespeare for the modern audience . . . and kind of failed . Let's be fair : Mel Gibson gives a good performance . Glenn close seems the part . Ian Holm , Alan Bates and Helena Bonham Carter are all ace . You can't really find fault in the acting . The problem , I think , is that the movie is just kind of slow and some scenes are a bit unnecessary . Zeffirelli supposedly hired Mel after watching the scene from " Lethal Weapon " where he contemplates suicide . It's not surprising - that scene from " Lethal Weapon " is great acting and Mel does a fine job . A lot of people pass him off as one of those " pretty boy " actors from the ' 80s but I think he's shown many times he has natural talent , whether or not you agree with his political and religious beliefs . Like all teenagers I was forced to read " Hamlet " in high school , and like all teenagers I found it to be a total bore . But the good thing about a film like this is that when you re-visit the source , the film itself puts together some of the pieces more clearly . I found the story easier to follow this time . I read " Hamlet " again a short time ago and it in turn helped me follow the play a great deal better as well . Personally , I've never seen Branaugh's version ( I know , I know ! ) so I can't compare the two . All I can say is that , although I think this is a fine film , it does have its flaws - and I wouldn't be able to give it more than a fair rating . Worth seeing out of interest .
Before Wayne and Garth , there was Bob and Dog McKenzie .	" Strange Brew " is a spin-off of the Bob and Doug McKenzie shorts on Canada's export " SCTV " ( which started in the early ' 80s on US television and won some awards ) . This movie is very much low budget and doesn't concern itself with continuity or much of a plot either - - it's a retread of " Hamlet " ( that's right ! ) and one William Shakespeare even gets a co-writing credit . Anyway , the film is not by any means a masterpiece but it's amusing in a so-bad-it's-good kind of way . ( And incidentally this was purposefully bad , and Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas - - who directed and wrote it - - make no effort to conceal this . ) The best part is actually the beginning when Bob and Doug reveal their movie about a man who survives the holocaust and wonders the earth in search of beer . I've rarely laughed so hard . " Pss , act ! " is one of the funniest lines in cinema history . After that it goes downhill but remains entertaining . . . Bob and Doug become embroiled in a plot by mad scientist Mad Von Sydow , who wants to take over the world and all the other stuff mad scientists like to do . I've never seen such a pieced-together , fragmented movie in all my life . A number of scenes pay nothing to the film whatsoever . One hockey game sequence goes on for about seven minutes and doesn't really have anything to do with . . . well . . . anything ! On top of that , characters come and go and disappear without mention again - - towards the end of the film , one of the bad guys gets his comeuppance , but the film doesn't even reveal how ! Also the woman playing the ex-brewster's daughter is supposed to be about 21 but she's clearly in her mid to late thirties . . . and at one point her birthdate is revealed in the film , and according to the date of the film , it places her at a much older age . . . so evidently Moranis and Thomas didn't really care at all about trying to convince audiences of anything with this film . And it's better that way . This is a really smug and self-knowing comedy , but in a good way . It's light-hearted and doesn't take itself seriously . Even during the end credits , Bob and Doug give their film a review and mention its plot weaknesses , but claim it's just good family fun and worth five bucks , and I agree . On an aside note I will have to say that the film's best sequences are those in which Bob and Doug are actually hosting their show , and sometimes I wonder if that would have made a better 90 minutes than attempting to come up with a half-a$$ed plot . But oh well , it's still pretty funny and amusing as it is .
Better than expected , still doesn't hold a candle to the original though	" Vanilla Sky " suffers from a bit of mainstream Americanalization . ( Is that a word ? I don't think so , but oh well . ) It's the US taking a popular and successful foreign film ( the Spanish " Obres Los Ojos , " a . k . a . " Open Your Eyes " ) and re-working it with . . . Tom Cruise in the lead ? " Vanilla Sky " is , then , the ultimate cliché of the America / remake fascination inherent in most mainstream Hollywood films these days . People on this site love to bash Hollywood for doing this - they consistently take foreign films and remake them with popular American names . Casting Cruise is a bit too much of a cliché to be true . He's America's most popular actor alive ( statistically , anyway ) . Surprising , then , that the movie isn't bad . In fact , it's quite good , at least in a watchable sort of way . Although it doesn't hold a candle to the original , Cameron Crowe ( " Fast Times " scribe and " Jerry Maguire " director ) is still pretty capable behind the camera and Cameron Diaz proves she has some amount of acting abilities as she portrays a character unlike any other in her resume . The big disappointment is Penelope Cruz , returning to her role in the Spanish film , only this time playing it in English . And she's not very good at speaking English and we have to wonder , " Why did they cast her ? " Plus , and maybe this is just me . . . but I don't find her very attractive . Between her and Diaz , I'd take Diaz , even if she was a suicidal maniac . Overall I was rather entertained and amused by the film , even if it's nothing special . And believe me , it's not . But Tom Cruise is better than expected . And his notorious vanity pays off - - we finally get to see his face all messed up . Alas , he can't remain like this for the entire duration of the film . That would be American Hollywood sacrilege . I can just hear the producers : " Tom Cruise playing a facially disfigured man ? WHAT ? ! "
A fine comedy with a good performance by James Woods . I rate it a solid " 3 " out of 5 .	Dolly Parton leaves the country and heads out to the Big Apple , finding work at a radio station , much to the chagrin of James Woods ' co-worker . A cheesy romance story ( " I know the saying ' take your work to bed , ' but I didn't think it was so literal ! " ) , some OK jokes and a few fun performances make this film adequate viewing for a late night on Friday . stars . - John Ulmer
Those who compare it to " Swingers " are missing the point - but it's still just an above-average flick	" Made " is nothing special . If it were graded as a separate film it would probably have gotten better reviews . However , because it draws immediate comparisons to the hit indie film " Swingers " from 1996 , the general consensus drops even lower . However , those comparing the two are missing the point of " Made . " It's a separate film . It's not a sequel . Sure , there are a few self-referential moments ( such as the scene in the hotel room when Vaughn brings back the girls and is going into the next room and leaves Favreau by himself , awkwardly , with Drea DeMatteo , which is an exact retreat of a scene from the other film ) but overall it has an entirely different tone . It's darker , bleaker , less funny and a bit meaner . It's violent , and is about the Mafia , so whatever you think of " Swingers " - abandon your opinions at the door and take this in as a different film . Judge it as it is and not for what it could have been . Because although this isn't a great film it IS different than " Swingers " for the most part , and director Favreau goes for an entirely different approach , which is a good thing in my opinion . The performances are still good - Vaughn doing his crazy-guy routine and Favreau playing the put-upon good guy with a heart of gold . Overall , perhaps not worth a purchase , but maybe a rental .
Hitchcock Would Be Proud - - If it Didn't Have So Many Darn Plot Holes . . .	Conspiracies . Films tend to be made about conspiracies and mysteries . Everyone has conspiracy theories that they put in movies ( " JFK , " " Conspiracy Theory " ) . " The Game " is a different kind of conspiracy . It is about an entire organization holding something against one man . Only a few people know about this organization and what it does in the movie , it seems . But if only a handful of people know about the organization , how could it possibly get booming business ? That's one of the many , many plot holes that " The Game " seems to have . It just has too many plot holes to save itself . It has a pretty good plot , good acting , good directing . . . even a good script . . . but the plot holes in the script cause the problems . Michael Douglas plays a rich businessman , whose birthday is coming up soon . Sean Penn , his younger brother , tells Douglas that he ( Penn ) has bought a present for Douglas called " The Game . " Douglas goes to the location of The Game Headquarters ( it has a name but I can't remember right now ) , and there he finds out that The Game Headquarters must test Douglas ' health before they activate it ( The Game ) . They ask him questions , do health tests . . . all of this going to use later . . . and then Douglas goes to dinner . At dinner , one thing leads to another and pretty soon things start happening . A hysterical Penn tells Douglas that he didn't have enough money to pay for The Game , and now The Game is coming after him . So now Douglas is caught up in this conspiracy which he may never get out of alive . Because now they're coming after him . Blackmail is only the beginning of what they'll do to Douglas . First of all , " The Game " has a nice setup . I really enjoyed the beginning . It holds a great sense of suspense , and seems to be filmed effectively , in a very suspenseful way . It has all the markings of a Hitchcockian thriller . Unfortunately , Hitchcock would have ironed out the plot holes before he filmed the movie , because despite being a suspenseful film , the plot holes are unbearable , kind of negating all the suspense and belief in the film . SPOILERSFirst of all , how does The Game know that Douglas is going to do everything he does ? They're betting an awful lot that he will jump off the building at JUST the right spot to crash through JUST the right glass ( if you've seen the film you'll know what I mean ) . I can't exactly go into the entire film - - it would spoil the entire thing - - but the plot holes in the movie are just too obvious . They are literally betting on every step Douglas will take , and while they have people to help him make decisions along the way , there are times that he is by himself . . . how do they know , in a moment of despair , he will not try to put a gun to his head ? At the end ( major spoiler ahead ) , Douglas stands on the edge of a skyscraper with a gun . They make it look as though Douglas has just shot his brother ( by accident ) . Douglas , on the verge of a mental breakdown , walks to the edge of the skyscraper and jumps . Here are two things . 1 . How did they know Douglas wouldn't just lift the gun to his head and blow it off ? Why jump off the building ? Yeah , I know , that's what his father did and therefore Douglas would do the same - - but what if he hadn't ? If I were Douglas ' character , just because my father jumps off a building doesn't mean that that would be my decision of effective suicide . 2 . What if Douglas had jumped off the wrong point of the building ? What if he all of a sudden , before anyone could do anything , he decided to run off the other end of the building ? And even if he jumped off the building at the right point , what if a ) the wind ( there could be some strong gusts from that high up ) blew him away from his destination , and b ) from that speed , even fake glass would cut him up IF he reached his destination . That's one of the things that got me , but really , the whole sake of the film lies on what Douglas will do . What if Douglas shot himself early on ? What if the shock of thinking he killed his brother gave him a heart attack ? What if he didn't get out of the underwater taxi and drowned ? What if ? If I were The Game , I wouldn't bet that much on a suicidal man .
Norman is back !	" Psycho II " starts where the last left off . It's twenty-two years later . Norman has been released from prison on account of being cured from his madness . He goes back home to the Bates Motel , which is now run-down and not-so-pretty . It's not been taken care of by the state , nor by any helpful neighbors . Norman doesn't have any neighbors , and even if he did , I don't think they'd want to have anything to do with him . Norman starts his life again . He opens up the motel and seems to be cured of his demons . But then a young girl ( Meg Tilly ) comes along and stays at the motel , and the demons start to flee from the depths of Norman into his mind once again . He struggles to fight them . There's a reprise of the shower scene , only this time , the surprise is not in the death but in the absence of it . On the level of film-making , " Psycho II " isn't all that good . But I give it credit for reversing the shocks of the original . Everything we expect Norman to do does not happen . " Psycho " still isn't just a slasher flick . Anthony Perkins is able to conceal many demons within his character Norman Bates . His face is a good measure of this . It twictches and looks revolted at a great many sights . We can just imagine the images flooding into his brain as he looks at the woman staying at his motel and remembers what happened last time . Of course , in the original " Psycho " we had no idea that Norman was the murderer . Now we do - - we know what has happened in his past . His character almost looks sad throughout the movie . He's a new man , but the old woman is still in there somewhere , and he's constantly fighting her , and we can see it in his eyes and on his face . He gives a good idea of what it would be like to realize what you did years ago and have to fight to keep from becoming that person again . " Psycho II " ends with a surprising twist that is completely ruined , if I remember correctly , in the third film , where it is denounced as false . But this one is fun to believe , and adds its own gasp to the series - - it completely changes the facts of the original . I found it humorous that the end of " Psycho II " contains similarities to Jack Nicholson's childhood . Jack grew up thinking that his mother was his sister and his grandmother was his mother , if I do recall correctly . Norman Bates had a troubled childhood , as seen in " Psycho IV : The Beginning . " Obviously Nicholson had an odd childhood . Perhaps that was Nicholson's inspiration to become the madman killer in " The Shining " ? Pehaps that is why Jack Nicholson is known for having such a raging temper ? Things like that can screw you up . I consider the original " Psycho " to be the greatest horror film of all time . This sequel is hardly a worthy continuation in most respects . But if you want to be creeped out , Norman Bates will still do the job for you better than any Freddy Krueger out there , primarily because he is scary on a human level . Part of what made the original work was the insinuation of something evil and not actually showing it - - when things are left up to one's imagination , they will manifest their fears . They will not be told what their fears are ( like in the new horror films when blood splurts everywhere and we see the killer's face - - it's much scarier when the images are left up to our mind ) . " Psycho II " is more of a slasher film than the first film , but the subtle , sinister lurking of something evil is still evident in this film . And Norman Bates is still just as creepy as he was twenty-two years ago . The only difference is that now we know what's wrong with him . And what he did . And what he probably will do . But Perkins is able to connect on a human level and make his character empathetic . An empathetic killer ? Couldn't be . It was Alfred Hitchcock who said , " Television has brought murder back into the home - - where it belongs . " It's a clever quote . Perhaps my favorite quote from Hitch . But if you ask me , he had it wrong - - it's entirely the other way around .
Not nearly as bad as I was expecting it to be - but then again , not nearly as good as it could have been , either .	Want to hear something funny ? I laughed at " Dumb and Dumberer : When Harry Met Lloyd . " In fact , at about four scenes I was rolling over in laughter . And not just me - - people in front of and behind me were roaring in laughter , too . It's not a good movie . But I have seen far worse . Yes , the movie is filmed in the distinct style of a bad movie . It has a bad script . Most of its jokes are bad . It's essentially a bad movie . But it's not awful . And when I left , I had a smile on my face , because I had expected a depressing comedy and I got a goofy , good-natured one with a few good gags and a lot of good spirit . In its essence , it is quite easy to watch and - - perhaps - - just a little bit fun . I say this not out of prior prejudice , as much as I may have enjoyed the first installment , but out of surprise , because I expected it to give a bad name to the first film , " Dumb and Dumber " ( 1994 ) . I read all the bad reviews before going into " Dumb and Dumberer . " I didn't expect to laugh a single minute time , and I expected it to be a pale imitation of its predecessor . I did laugh . Not much , but I did . And it's not a pale imitation of the first film - - it isn't nearly as solid in direction ( thanks to the absence of the Farrelly Brothers ) , but this is a good thing . I don't think it wanted to try to be like the first film , because it knew that it couldn't be and never would be . So it's just a sappy little 90-minute movie with a few good gags and a notably convincing portrayal of a younger Jim Carrey ( or Lloyd Christmas ) from Eric Christian Olsen . His face is often contorted with an arched eyebrow . To those who said he didn't look like Jim Carrey : Shame on you . He's even got the movements and physical gestures down pat . It's 1986 . Lloyd ( Olsen ) lives with his stepfather ( Luis Guzman ) , the local high school janitor . Rushing to catch the bus for school one day , he turns around a corner and ( literally ) bumps into Harry Dunne ( Derek Richardson ) , a homeschooler whose first day of school begins on that very day . Lloyd gets his tooth chipped when they bump into each other and immediately they are best pals . As Lloyd shows Harry the ropes at school , Principal Collins ( Eugene Levy ) sets up a " special needs " program at the school as a way of cheating his way to a 100 , 000 dollar grant from a pay program , which - - unbeknownst to him - - is all just an FBI sting . The cafeteria cook ( Chery Oteri ) , who is also Collins ' lover , plays teacher to Harry , Lloyd and a band of other " special " kids . Meanwhile , Harry and Lloyd's friendship starts to blossom . You want to know the scene that had my hysterically laughing in this film ? It's the most juvenile scene in the entire movie , and I know this , but it was great . Bob Saget ( " Full House " ) plays the uptight father of Jessica , Harry's wannabe love interest . Invited to dinner at their house , Harry accidentally spreads melted chocolate all over the bathroom wall . After leaving , Saget walks in and sees it , completely freaks out , and starts to curse up a storm . Let's just say that he thinks it is something other than chocolate covering his bathroom . I cherish " Dumb and Dumber , " the original , because I find its buddies lovable and its goofiness contagious . I am a big fan of the buddy movie sub genre , specifically the Odd Couple stuff . " Dumb and Dumberer " is not in its league . It's too childish , too crude , too immature , too plain stupid . But y'know what ? It sure is a lot dumber than the first film . Perhaps even dumberer . Like I said above , after reading the negative press about this film I really expected a shameless cash-in on the original . In a way , that's what I got . But I admire this film's spirit . It knows it's nothing great . And it didn't harm me , despite all its crude humor and childish jokes . In a way , it's almost admirable because the director , Troy Miller , managed to create a film that plastered a goofy little grin on my face without disgusting me like " Daddy Day Care " did , a " family " comedy minus the laughs . This one works , in an odd sort of way . And , for once , a film title lives up to its name . This movie is certainly dumberer than the first . Note : I seem to be praising this film . I'm not . It is merely a mediocre comedy . I withhold its flaws in my review specifically because it surprised me very much and , despite being an undoubtedly bad movie , I don't necessarily find it harmful in any way , shape or form . It's a goofy little comedy with a smaller heart than the first but a heart nevertheless . I give it a bad rating because it trips more than it succeeds . But I will add a disclaimer to this review : It's not as bad as you think . . . and you may be surprised . This film puts a small little smile on your face .
Ah , the ' 80s .	It's odd to see John Hughes commenting on high school through the eyes of a teenaged girl - one might think he is more apt to model himself onto another male , but it's a strength to his writing skills that he can just as effectively convey the trials and tribulations of a young woman . ( Rather than just a man such as in , say , " Ferris Bueller's Day Off . " ) This is essentially the film that made John Hughes famous , and one of the most defining films of the 1980s ( along with " The Brekafast Club " a year later , this gave birth to the modern teen genre and the stereotypes inherent and loathed in most of the genre today ) . Molly Ringwald plays Samantha , a blossoming girl whose family forget her big day - the Sweet Sixteenth when she finally becomes a woman ( at least in her own eyes ) . Samantha has a crush on the school's most popular kid and a geek ( Anthony Michael Hall ) has a crush on her , and she doesn't return to the feelings . The movie is predictable , but that might have something to do with our familiarity with modern clichés of the genre based on this film itself . I imagine when it was originally released it wouldn't have had such a pre-existing familiarity with viewers , although then again , maybe it did . . . and that's why it was such a success . This is far from John Hughes ' best film , but it is an effective teen comedy and one of the better ones to come out of the 1980s . It's good for what it is .
A fun movie with a great performance by Depp	( Note : this review is from 2003 . ) In its fullest , " Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Curl " succeeds as entertainment . It is one of the great adventure films of this year , jam-packed with chills and thrills . It's a rousing swashbuckler with a great cast and a great story . But , ranking in at 143 minutes , it goes overboard on scenes a few times . Just a few . When " Pirates of the Caribbean " first opened , my Website was bombarded with desperate letters from frenzied fans of the film , all asking me to post a script for the film . It is perhaps the most requested script I've ever had people write to me about . It's amazing what an impact a film such as this can have . It stars Johnny Depp in the lead role as the infamous pirate Captain Jack Sparrow , the worst pirate the film's Good Bad Guy has ever heard of . " Ah , but you have heard of me , " Jack says . Jack used to be the captain of a deadly ship named the Black Pearl , before a mutiny took place at the command of Barbosa ( Geoffrey Rush ) , who left Jack for dead on an island where he drank rum for three days and got a permanent case of sea daze . But Jack survived , and now with the help of Will Turner ( Orlando Bloom ) , he will track down Barbosa and claim his ship back . Will is not in it for the ship , however , but rather for the young girl , Elizabeth ( Keira Knightley ) , who was kidnapped by Barbosa in hopes of removing a curse put upon him and his crew after they removed gold coins from a cursed treasure chest . By the moon of the light , Barbosa and his idiot crew turn into skeletons . They cannot die , they cannot feel pleasure . They are " cursed pirates . " First , they must restore all of the golden coins to the treasure chest , then pour the blood of a Turner over the stash of treasure . Captain Barbosa thinks that Elizabeth is the late Bootstrap Bill Turner's daughter , but he never had one - - his single child was a boy , and the boy is Will , who is coming to save Elizabeth from a doom that he himself should be facing more than anyone . Confused ? Don't be . When you watch the movie it will all make sense , because it just does . The main element that carries along " Pirates of the Caribbean " well past its expiration date is the casting of Johnny Depp in the role of Jack Sparrow . In a constant drunken stupor and with a splendidly funny rough British accent , Depp has finally hit payday in a mainstream motion picture . He's been cast in cult favorites over the years , specifically those directed by Tim Burton ( " Edward Scissorhands , " " Ed Wood " ) , but he's been around since " A Nightmare on Elm Street " and " Platoon . " He hasn't exactly gotten major recognition over the years , and though movie buffs know him by name , mainstream filmgoers probably wouldn't recognize him at first . Not now , however . Now everyone's jumping on the bandwagon . Depp , at forty , has finally gotten a mainstream break . Also helping the film is Geoffrey Rush as Barbosa . He's a dastardly villain with bad teeth and , we can only assume , bad breath . He's good at being a bad guy , but because the film is rated PG-13 , a big step forward for Disney , he isn't allowed to be quite as vicious as he probably would be . And , I can only assume , the rating prohibits him from taking advantage of poor Elizabeth while she is held captive aboard his ship . . . . The movie's score is by Klaus Badelt , who has been getting his big break lately with films such as " The Recruit . " It's a good score that fits the film's tone of pirates . Pirates are everywhere in this film , and at one point a character remarks that it's good to be a pirate , or something like that . I just wonder : If that's true , why does Disney prohibit pirating of its films ? Har , har . " Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl " is one of the better entertainments of the year , helped primarily because of a great cast and witty script . But the character that will stay in your head long after this is over , more than any other character in the film ( including Jonathan Pryce as Elizabeth's father , who I have not mentioned before now and I think I should have ) , is Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow . He's going to go down in the books as one of those famous film heroes . And what saves him from becoming another gung-ho hero is what helped Harrison Ford make Indiana Jones so likable : He's an apprehensive and cautious hero with wit and loads of dry humor and funny one-liners to spare . He's not the type of hero who is necessarily always looking out for the best because he wants to save the world , but rather because he knows it's sort of his duty to do so . And he does so with apprehension . It's a key to making a great screen hero , and Johnny Depp succeeds where I can only assume most modern action heroes would fail . Let's just hope the rumored , upcoming back-to-back sequels don't sink to Davy Jones ' Locker , eh ?
A decent enough Bogart film ; sort of boring at times , but a good one to own on DVD like I do . . .	Rare essential cult comedy starring Humphrey Bogart as a smuggler working for a band of criminals who meet up with a pair of traveling newly-weds who are off to Africa in search of diamonds . There are some plot twists , but the film takes its time a bit too much . A good film to watch just for appreciation , although not quite great . I'll tell you who is great , though : Peter Lorre re-united Bogart again 11 years after " Casablanca " ! stars . - John Ulmer
A fun , " Indiana Jones " - style adventure movie	Robert Zemeckis managed to find investors for " Back to the Future " due to the success of " Romancing the Stone " in 1984 . In fact , he turned down an offer to direct the sequel ( 1985's disappointing " Jewel of the Nile " ) so that he could instead film " . . . Future . " On the BttF DVD , he seems to speak quite highly of " Romancing the Stone , " and I agree with the critics and him - it's a fun movie . Not great , but entertaining . Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner form a great pair ( they've worked together a few times over the years , my favorite collaboration of theirs being " War of the Roses " in 1989 ) . Their constant bickering is funny and they definitely have chemistry . Danny DeVito ( who directed " Roses , " incidentally ) co-stars and handles the short , funny comedic relief role quite well - he returned for the sequel as well , but in this one he actually seems to make sense ( whereas in " Nile " he didn't seem to serve much of a purpose ) . If you enjoyed the " Indiana Jones " series or any other serial adventure-style movies , you'll love " Romancing the Stone . "
Inferior to " Se7en " but a good movie - just overrated !	Hannibal . The very name sparks fear , discomfort , and ultimately recognition . He is one of the most popular screen characters of all time , the incarnation of evil , and yet strangely likable despite his distasteful savoring of human flesh . " I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice bottle of chianti , " he tells FBI Agent Clarice Starling ( Jodie Foster ) after she meets him in a prison , metal bars their only means of separation . Their first conversation and face-to-face interaction is a vital element of the film's narrative ; the bars represent Starling's own self-defense ; they have wide-open spaces that are easily penetrable . And Hannibal Lecter , a psychologist and cannibal , knows exactly how to reach past her own mental cell bars and crack into her brain , and he does so in the classic scene where she recalls memories from her childhood , of the lamb she tried to save . . . Agent Starling is on the case of a bizarre serial killer whose victims tend to be young women . Although they are unaware of his motives , it turns out the infamous " Buffalo Bill " is using the skin of these unfortunate victims for his own sick pleasure . He's not the sort of person you'd feel comfortable being stuck next to in an otherwise empty elevator . Clarice is smart , a feminine icon of the movies . Her brains are what propel her own investigation into the case while her desire to unearth the truth and succeed past the results of her male counterparts stems from a sort of egotistical dominance . Not many people comment upon Sterling's own sexuality , her almost overly excessive efforts at saving the victims ( who happen to be females ) . Buffalo Bill seems to represent her own image of men : cruel creatures who inflict pain and suffering upon helpless women . Her sole friend , the only man she can rely on for help and inside tidbits , is an outcast upon society - - a metaphor for the repressed homosexuals who are abandoned by their own societies , shunned by those who feel they are not " normal . " Harris's underlying implications of homosexuality and female dominance in the novel are admittedly stronger than in the film , although the presence of the suggestions is clearly evident under close examination . Or , it could just be about serial killers and FBI agents . You decide . Sure , the movie is famous , but we must ask ourselves whether or not the film's reputation has given it a better face over the year than it has deserved . It is well directed , but never does the film fascinate us as the bold and daring " Se7en " did . " Silence of the Lambs " is a fine film , but pales in comparison to some of its imitators and fellow genre occupants . The acting and writing is not at fault . Hopkins and Foster are superb . Hopkins received the most critical acclaim , although in 2001 we all realized that Foster was a key to the series as well , when she was unsuccessfully replaced with Julianne Moore in the sequel , " Hannibal , " directed by Ridley Scott , which was a total failure and disappointment for the fans of the original and source material , the novels by Thomas Harris , who has reportedly never seen " Silence of the Lambs " for fear that it would influence his writing . " Lambs , " more than any other film in the series , is terribly manipulative , complete with tacky flashbacks that are out of place and all too convenient . That's where the film ultimately fails . The direction by Jonathan Demme is , truth be told , rather poor and borderline mediocre ; Demme does not use cinematography to his advantage , does not use darker tones to evoke feelings from the prints as Fincher did with " Se7en . " It's a great movie with convincing performances and a realistic script packaged in the form of a typical Hollywood thriller - - it might have a good reputation , it might be a good movie , but compared to other classics of the genre , " The Silence of the Lambs " just doesn't hold up as much as I had hoped it would after all these years . It's revolutionary , but isn't the masterpiece it used to be . On the plus side there's always that terrific ending to look forward to .
Hail to the king , baby !	Elvis never died . JFK wasn't assassinated . They both live in a retirement home in East Texas . Elvis is seventy years old with a cancerous growth on his penis , and JFK's body has been dyed black . If this sounds odd to you , that's probably because it is . " Bubba Ho-tep " is , quite frankly , the most insanely unique film to emerge in years . Some people will love it , others will hate it . Its humor is quirky , not necessarily laugh-out-loud but rather silly . It is at times scary and at other times simply ludicrous . The plot is insane - an old mummy lost in a bus crash is revived and steals the souls of the living from Elvis ' retirement home . Elvis ( Bruce Campbell ) , still alive , swapped lives with an impersonator years before . He misses his wife and daughter and all the women who used to throw themselves at him . JFK ( Ossie Davis ) also resides at the retirement home under the care of the supervisor ( Reggie Bannister ) , who patronizes them both when they alert him of Bubba Ho-tep killing all the old people . This movie is really stupid , but in a good way . It's all over the place . Like Don Coscarelli's previous famous cult flicks ( namely the " Phantasm " movies ) , it's a mixture of comedy and horror , and for the most part , it works . Campbell doesn't look anything like Elvis really but he's still believable and funny . Ossie Davis never convinces as JFK but he is convincing as a nutcase completely out of his mind . This movie isn't great but it is completely original and a unique mixture of genres . I particularly liked the first half more so than the second half , but as a complete film it still rocks . As Bruce said in another film , " Hail to the king , baby ! "
You'll love it or hate it .	I remember " Natural Born Killers " making a huge fuss when it was released because the media and conservative families were in an outrage over the level of " glorified violence " in the film . To some extent they were right - - the violence isn't glorified but much of it is unnecessary . The movie could still be a brilliant satire of society / the media without going into such graphic detail - - it's been proved in cinema before that sometimes seeing less is better than gratuity . If Oliver Stone's movie has one outstanding flaw , it's the lack of subtlety . That said , if you can handle the level of violence and take it tongue-in-cheek , " Natural Born Killers " is so bizarre and funny that it's worth the " trip . " ( Pun intended . ) This is a crazy drug odyssey that would have made Hunter S . Thompson look like Ronald Reagan . The film is twisted , outlandish and out of its mind - - Oliver Stone has gone stone-cold crazy and it's awesome . Despite my reservations about his lack of subtlety , there is a flip side to the coin : It is a story about excess . Stone's film-making has gone somewhat awry over the years ( look at the pointless excess of his films after this ) , but this fits the bill because it IS a story of excess . Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis play the titular " Natural Born Killers , " Mickey and Mallory , a pair of crazy serial killers who both suffered traumatic childhoods and are now rampaging America on a literal killing spree . After they are finally apprehended , the media has by now turned them into such icons and glorified personalities that the public and media seems to respect them as titans of filth . This is where the social satire of the film comes into play , essentially saying : We focus more on the killers than the heroes . I do think it's a bit hypocritical of Oliver Stone to attempt to point this out , as he is a die-hard liberal at his core and , as the controversy surrounding this film's release proved , the conservatives are too conservative to praise killers . It seems to be the liberal media that glorifies violence ( to some extent of course ) so I thought Stone would be the last person to ever criticize the media . So yes it does come across as somewhat of a moot point but nevertheless the film is still enjoyable despite its sometimes sickening amount of over-the-top violence ( the opening sequence of the Director's Cut is stomach-turning ) . The cast is superb - Rodney Dangerfield , Robert Downey Jr . , Tommy Lee Jones , Tom Sizemore , Edie McClurg ( the rental car agent from " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " and Rooney's assistant in " Ferris Bueller " ! ) and Denis Leary and Ashley Judd in deleted scenes included in the Director's Cut . The story was conceived by Quentin Tarantino ( and it's very similar to his " True Romance " script - - a sort of modern-day " Bonnie and Clyde Redux " ) and re-written by Stone ( much to the chagrin of QT ) . I'm not sure which would have made for a better film but , despite its flaws ( which are mainly a none-too-subtle message and too much violence ) , " Natural Born Killers " is a sort of bizarre , outlandish masterpiece of drugged-out cinema . - -
Stars - A Nice Satirical Family Comedy With More Hits Than Misses	" Galaxy Quest " is a bit of a mix between " Star Trek " and . . . well . . . " Star Trek . " It stars Tim Allen , Sigourney Weaver ( in a blonde wig ) and Alan Rickman as the crew of an ex - " Star Trek " - type show , who are contacted by real aliens who picked up the television show in space , thinking it was real . Allen and crew are taken to the alien space craft in space to help out the aliens with their problem - - a large grasshopper-looking creature and his band of baddies is trying to take over the ship , or something like that . I haven't seen this movie in a few years . So Allen and co . try to help out , but cause more trouble than anything , until the climax of the film - - that gets a bit long but is still pretty fun . The first time I saw this movie I really hated it . I'm not a " Star Trek " freak ; in fact , I don't believe I've ever been able to sit through a whole episode of the television show , much less the dull films . So I didn't really pick up on many of the film's gags . The second time , however , I had more fun , although I still missed out on some jokes because I'm not a " Trekkie . " The performances by all the actors and actresses involved is great . I'm not a fan of Weaver , but I suppose she did fine in this film . Allen is himself - - quite funny , but not over the top . My personal favorite , however , was Tony Shaloub , the comic relief - - even though the whole film is a comedy , he provided more of it . The whole idea for the film is pretty original , if a bit contrived , and there are good opportunities for jokes that are not wasted . Good potential carried through for a good film . " Galaxy Quest " isn't a great movie , but it's pretty funny and I enjoyed it . Stars - John Ulmer
Better than the original	I enjoyed the original " American Tail " movie because of its appeal towards adults as well as children ( it uses mice and cats as a metaphor for the Jews and Germans during WWII , with immigrants fleeing to the US ) . However the dark edge of the movie was a bit too much for me and I felt as a children's tale it was probably a bit too scary . Don Bluth returned in ' 91 to film the sequel to his last hit , this one a satire of the westerns . Fievel the mischievous mouse returns as his parents are shipping off to Green River to escape the cats , led by Cat R . Wall ( voiced by John Cleese ) . Along the way a spider ( voiced by Jon Lovitz ) tries to kill Fievel and he falls off the train , into the desert , where he pines for his feline friend from the first film ( voiced by Dom DeLuise ) . Eventually Fievel finds his way out of the desert and finds a dog-sheriff ( voiced by Jimmy Stewart ) who decides to help train him so that he can fight off Cat R . Wall , who has moved out west to spread his reign of terror . I enjoy this movie more than the first one because it's not as dark ( something I just have a problem with in a kid's movie ) . The satire isn't as strong and the whole WWII edge is lost but it still retains the cats vs . mice , which is a nice element . The animation in my opinion is more classical and the musical sequences are more lively . The voice talents are far more impressive and I love Jimmy Stewart and John Cleese in this movie - talk about great casting ! Overall this is better than the original and it surprises me that more people don't actually know about it . As a nice little family adventure film it's pretty entertaining and in terms of animation it represents everything Don Bluth is known for .
The darkest , deepest and most emotionally involving film of the series so far .	Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is not only the most technologically advanced of the Potter films thus far , but also the most entertaining . Director Mike Newell ( Four Weddings and a Funeral , Donnie Brasco ) is careful with the structure of his film , and keeps the pace moving steadily along . He balances CGI animation ( such as a breathtaking underwater sequence ) with tender emotional moments involving broken friendships and broken hearts . I did not like the first three Harry Potter films , yet I found this one to be a rather pleasant surprise . Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) returns once again to Hogwarts ' School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , under the care of Dumbledore ( Michael Gambon ) , Hagrid ( Robbie Coltrane ) and Minerva ( Maggie Smith ) , teachers and advisers . His friends Ron Weasley ( Rupert Grint ) and Hermoine Granger ( Emma Watson ) are soon in his company and all appears to be well and fine for him . However , dark times lie ahead for Harry Potter . His name is mysteriously entered into the Triwizard Tournament ? a test of strength and perseverance open only to those seventeen years of age and older . Harry is selected to compete despite being a minor by three years , much to the confusion and fury of fellow classmates and school faculty . Reluctant , his first battle is with a dragon in an arena , and it only gets worse from there onwards . Soon it is made clear that there is a dark conspiracy centering on Harry's involvement in the competition and it may be linked to the dreaded Lord Voldemort , who killed Harry's parents years prior and caused the lightning bolt scar on his forehead . What I was most startled by with Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was its emotional complexity . Despite a few flaws ( particularly in length , clocking in at 157 minutes ) , Newell concentrates on what the earlier films lacked ? depth . Sure , they might have been fairly whimsical and unique , but the characters were given little to do . Here , a good amount of the time is actually spent focusing on the characters rather than the action ? friendship tensions between Ron and Harry , for example , as well as Harry's confrontation with his parents ' murderer , Lord Voldemort ( taking form in the hideous guise of a disfigured Ralph Fiennes ) . The scary moments are effective . I still think Chamber of Secrets was the darkest from a technical standpoint ( there are brighter colors used here and less blue filters ) but when it's dark , it's DARK . The maze sequence towards the end of the picture would be enough to give the kiddies nightmares for weeks - this segment alone probably contributed heavily to the movie's PG-13 rating . ( The first film of the series to be rated higher than PG . ) Is this the best Harry Potter movie ? Simply put , yes . It is the most entertaining , the darkest and the most emotionally intriguing film of the series . If they continue at this pace of improvement , the next entry ? The Order of the Phoenix ? could be a very good film .
Johnny Knoxville has lost his mind	Johnny Knoxville has gone insane . In the first Jackass he delighted in practical jokes more so than the physical stuff ? his opening car rental gag and the later bit involving an air horn on a golf course were more akin to some type of extreme Candid Camera ? but in Jackass : Number Two he's really off his rocker . Beginning with a sequence where he is chased through a living room by a bull , or later when he rides a rocket ( a stunt which almost cost him his life due to an unexpected explosion from the side of the rocket ) , and especially when he stands willfully in front of a defense mechanism and takes a spray of pellets to the stomach , Knoxville is a madman . In the first film Bam Margera and Steve-O ? notorious party animals ? were the daring ones , but you know it's pretty bad when you see Knoxville enticing them to do a stunt . This is essentially a series of stunts pulled off by guys consumed by testosterone , constantly trying to one-up each other . It will eventually end in death for one of the cast members ? in Jackass 2 Steve-O nearly loses a leg to a shark , Knoxville ( as aforementioned ) is nearly impaled with an explosion from a rocket , and so on and so forth . Jackass 3 has already been confirmed owing to the success of 2 , and frankly I can't imagine any stunt out-performing the bull run in the opening scene of this film ? that's incredible footage . It's almost unbelievable , and I wondered whether it had been faked , but apparently it was 100 % genuine . ( Which is actually kind of frightening . ) And in terms of extremes Jackass 2 far outdoes its predecessor ? it also feels more cinematic than the first film , with less of the cheesy titles preceding stunts that were made famous on the original MTV television show . Unfortunately , the boys were given too much freedom here , and a good number of the gags are simply lame exercises in crudity ? I can enjoy the occasional poop gag , but watching a man relieve himself on a miniature toilet , or see Steve-O take beer up the butt ( yes , honestly ) , gets grating after a while . Even the frat boys in the screening I attended ? who were enthusiastic when Wee Man took a playing card up the rear and got zapped by a rigged chair ? were disgusted by some of the scenes in this film . It's not a matter of getting away with as much as possible ? it's a matter of saying , " Is this even entertaining or funny ? " Many times , sadly , it really isn't . But for every lame stunt involving fecal matter and farting on people's faces , there are some brilliant hidden-camera bits . Wacky director Spike Jonze ( " Adaptation " ) dresses up as an old woman and hits the streets naked , with sagging breasts and no shame . And my personal favorite skit involved Knoxville as an irresponsible old man , out for lunch with his grandson , letting him drink alcohol and smoke and swear and insult people . That's classic comedy taken to new extremes with the liberties of an R-rating . It's a shame they had to ruin all the great stuff ? including a final segment involving an elaborate terrorist prank ? with poop jokes along the way . Still , there's enough sheer spirit and craziness in this film to merit a viewing , and it's really taken the concept of extremity in cinema to new heights .
Surprisingly entertaining	I'd heard many bad things about CELLULAR so I hadn't expected much from it , however it held my interest . As luck would have it this really was just a way of passing time as I was stuck without transport and decided to enter a nearby free cinema to help make the time pass quicker . I expected the film to be fairly entertaining but found the 90 minutes to seem very short . The film's acting is pretty good - it could be argued the talents are better than the script . Kim Basinger , William H . Macy and Jason Statham are at the least convincing as their characters . I thought I knew there was going to be a twist at the end of the movie , but to be fair the film doesn't resort to last-minute contrivances and this is only all the more respectable - it's a straightforward thriller with no SIXTH SENSE / MEMENTO-type endings , both of which were superb films but have been endlessly aped to inferior results . Basically it's about a woman ( Basinger ) who is kidnapped by a mysterious stranger ( Statham ) and manages to make a random phone call to a complete stranger who embarks on a journey to save her , despite not knowing where she is , who she is ( in terms of being able to recognize her ) , nor what he's getting himself into . In short I enjoyed the movie . It held my interest throughout . It's unique and contains some good ideas . No , it's not a great movie . But if you're looking for mindless entertainment , you could definitely do worse than CELLULAR .
Not imperfect but entertaining nonetheless	I grew up in a Christian household and " The Last Temptation of Christ " was considered sacrilege . It was not until I began a fascination with Martin Scorsese's movies that I stayed up late to watch this one night on television , to see if the controversy surrounding it was appropriate or not . If you've read " The Da Vinci Code " you're already familiar with the concept : that Jesus Christ ( played here by Willem Dafoe ) was more flesh and bones than we given Him credit for , and was tempted to betray God and live with His true love , Mary Magdalene , rather than die for our sins . This is referenced by Dan Brown in the overlong and silly 20-page explanation of the true " Holy Grail " - - who Brown proposes is not an object , but a living person : Mary Magdalene , whom Jesus impregnated . The Catholic Church took an immediate disliking to this concept . As Scorsese's film not-so-subtly implies that this is the case , it was panned and , in some cases , banned ; the Church called it sacrilegious and many people refused to even see it , just based on its subject matter . Robert De Niro turned down the lead role of Jesus in " The Last Temptation of Christ , " and probably because he was aware of the controversy it would stir . It was one of the only roles Scorsese offered him that he has turned down , the other being " The Butcher " in " Gangs of New York . " Although " The Last Temptation of Christ " is made with some insight and Scorsese suffered trials and tribulations to bring it to the screen , I'd say it's one of the lesser efforts of Scorsese and writer Paul Schrader's combined efforts . The film is interesting but the acting is a bit off . I remember one sequence where Harvey Keitel ( playing Judas ) beats Jesus and Jesus lowers to Judas ' feet and begs forgiveness . It all seems a bit hokey and staged , and Harvey Keitel is out-of-place , wearing what looks to be a very odd replica of the era's clothing . The movie is based on a novel by Nikos Kazantzakis , whose work was complete fiction , as the author himself has claimed . As a result Scorsese's work is not claiming to be an accurate depiction of Christ's death , but rather a new twist to the tale based on another book . Do I think this is wrong ? To be honest , yes , I do . On one hand I consider a fresh perspective refreshing , but on the other hand it seems wrong to base anything off of religious iconography and attempt to twist it into something human . Scorsese had to knew what he'd endure to release this . I don't think it was a surprise . But enough about the controversy . Purely as a film , " The Last Temptation of Christ " is beautiful to look at but I do feel some of it is rather hokey . As I mentioned above , some of the acting seems misplaced . Mel's version is definitely the more realistic of the two . But if you do have a ( very ) open mind and are not religious you might enjoy this . If you are religious and have a closed mind about your faith , stay away from this and " The Da Vinci Code " as they'll both probably just upset you and cause stress . In my opinion " The Last Temptation of Christ " is a good movie , but I do understand why people were outraged ( and I rarely do with films ) because Scorsese is touching on a very fragile subject matter here and it would have been quite naive of him to expect people to love his film . I like to think that he was smart enough to foresee the hatred for this movie . I'm pretty sure he knew .
Run Harrison Run .	Imagine a time , if you will , when fugitive movies were not released ten times a year , a time when Tommy Lee Jones actually appeared in fugitive movies simply because he liked the script and not because he was revisiting the role that made him famous again , a time when the fugitive movies were about much more than simply a homicidal maniac being chased by a man who has a connection to him . You will understand this film a lot more . It relies so much on characters and a witty script as compared to explosions and fight scenes . But of course that's not to say it doesn't have any pyrotechnics or chase scenes or battles - the action scenes will satisfy even the biggest of action buffs . It just makes a lot more sense when they're there for a purpose . Harrison Ford plays Dr . Ryan Kimble . Kimble comes home from work one night after an emergency procedure at the hospital to find his wife brutally beaten to death by a one-armed man . The one-armed man escapes from the scene of the crime and all evidence points to Ryan as the assaultant and killer . After sentenced to death , Ryan is pushed into the back of a convict bus transporting convicted fellons to jail . But one of the criminals tries to escape and the bus ends up swerving off the road and flipping down a steep ravine , coming to rest upon a railroad track . Ryan escapes before the train rips through the bus , resulting in a great scene where Ryan is running in front of the derailed train , chained at his feet and arms . It's the classic Indiana Jones bolder scene redux . Ryan eventually disappears into the woods and U . S . Marshal Samuel Gerard ( Tommy Lee Jones ) arrives at the scene of the crash a short time later . He is the ultimate seeker ; he is barely ever wrong about anything , and when he is he doesn't like to admit it . Jones presents his character with such a sense of self-confidence and oozing calmness that his Oscar was well-deserved . Ryan keeps on running throughout the film , only stopping to gather evidence of his killer and then moving on . He goes through some interesting scenarios and starts to stumble upon a conspiracy , but no one will hear his story - the only living person who might care is the same man who says he doesn't care : Sam Gerard . If I am correct in my observations , Harrison Ford and Tommy Lee Jones only appear in about two scenes together - the rest of the film they are apart from each other . As Jones pursues Ford , it seems as though he starts to make a connection with his prey - as though he may be the only one understanding what Ford is doing and why . It creates a sense of greater suspense for the audience . This is not a run-of-the-mill chase picture we are exploited to on so many occasions . We care for both characters in equal regards , and when they finally do come face-to-face it results in a kind of unexpected payoff ; at last we get to see the two together in the same shot and it's strangeThe movie is directed by Andrew Davis , who directed " Collateral Damage " and " Holes . " He has a solid sense of direction even if the material itself doesn't always hold together . Given a terrific script like " The Fugitive , " Davis creates a type of cement cornerstone that is the base of the film . The script and direction compliment themselves often , something that can't be said in most cases . Tommy Lee Jones recently appeared in " The Hunted , " a film about a madman killer on the loose , and Jones plays the man trying to pursue him . The stupidity of the script hit me hard . I rewatched " The Fugitive " not a week after I saw " The Hunted " and realized the sheer genius of it versus the lesser film . This is a movie that will wet the apetite of all action , mystery and thriller lovers alike who are looking for something different than the routine chase films . I know it did for me . stars - John Ulmer
I think that ' Simone ' did deliver on many levels . Yes , leaving the audience guessing isn't its strongest trait , but I still enjoyed it . Sometimes you've just got to sit back , relax , and enjoy the ride . I did	' S1m0ne''S1m0ne ' is based around a failing Hollywood director , who creates a digital star ; the star , named ' Simone , ' ( Simulation One ) becomes an overnight sensation . She is admired by women and wanted by men . She is everywhere . She wins Oscars , awards of all kinds . There's only one problem . The more attention the director's creation gets , the harder it is for him to keep the secret buried . Viktor Taransky is that director , played by the wonderful Al Pacino . All of Viktor's latest films have been ' tanks , ' as his ex-wife ( ( Catherine Keener ) admirably calls them , at the box office . But hope is in sight yet for Viktor . Or was , before his biggest star ( Ryder ) walks out on him , leaving him to cope with no star , and an upcoming dropped contract with the studio ( courtesy to his ex ) . And then , on the verge of madness and frustration , Hank Aleno ( Elias Koteas ) , a mad scientist with an eye tumor , hands something magical and mysterious to Viktor . A box . But what is inside the box is what is so magical , as Viktor soon finds out . He just doesn't realize how special it is . He now has the power to create an actress . But not just any actress-an actress who never forgets her lines , never makes any mistakes for the press to create a stir about , and never , ever talks back . And so that is what starts this cynical comedy off . Written , produced and directed by Andrew Niccol , who recently brought us the Jim Carrey vehicle " The Truman Show " and wrote and directed " Gattaca , " both movies satirizing Hollywood and its potential outcomes . However , I enjoyed ' S1m0ne ' more than ' The Truman Show . ' There was just something about Truman that I couldn't warm up to ? it left me in the cold , wishing I could come in ; but the film just wouldn't let me . There was a feeling of distance from the audience . Much is the same with ' Simone , ' however : I feel that ' Simone ' has a much better sense of humor . Yes , many of the things are routine . Yes , there are plot holes galore . But that was part of the problem I had with Truman ? the plot holes . There were too many . ' Simone , ' however , has little enough plot holes as to not ruin the film , and just enough to not give it a tremendous rating . Al Pacino does good here . He's very believable as Taransky . So is Rachel Roberts as Simone . She has that level of ' Hollywoodosity ' that makes stars famous . I think that ' Simone ' did deliver on many levels . Yes , leaving the audience guessing isn't its strongest trait , but I still enjoyed it . Sometimes you've just got to sit back , relax , and enjoy the ride . I did , at least . stars ? John Ulmer
Monumental	I won't say this is worthy of a higher rating than " 7 " because many of the artists / performers , etc . , were not to my liking . That said , a lot of them were great . Pink Floyd made a historic return to the stage and stole the show . Roger's voice may not be at its best , but in terms of pure presence , they were ace ! Velvet Revolver , sadly , was less impressive ; the first live performance of theirs that I had seen , and I was fairly underwhelmed . Slash looked bloated and bored , Scott Weiland's vocals were fair at best , and their song selection was questionable ( the opening line of " Do It for the Kids " contains a strong expletive , and the entire point of the song is to encourage sex ) . I'm not anti-swearing / sex , but the idea of them performing this show in front of millions of families across the nation was a bit disappointing . I think they could have instead played something more relevant and melodic . To be entirely honest I couldn't care less about most of the other performers . REM was pretty dull and all the solo artists were grating MTV generation no-talent hacks . Pretty colossal production . I was only 20 miles from Hyde Park , and looking back in retrospect I wish I had gone down to see the concert if only to catch a glimpse of what may possibly be the last Pink Floyd performance ever .
Clever spin on Austen's story with good satire and performances	Cher ( Alicia Silverstone ) is a popular ditz at her local high school in Beverly Hills . She's a spoiled , pampered little princess with all the right social connections and endless wealth . However she has yet to find a man in her life - all the Baldwins ( as she and her clique of friends call guys they like ) have been taken . When Cher receives a foreign exchange student , she takes her under her wing and decides to try and find her a boyfriend - ironically without having her own yet . Predictability ensues . I read " Emma " in early high school as I'm sure most kids did , and the movie puts a clever spin on the tale . Alicia Silverstone is surprisingly good in her role , perfectly playing a blond bombshell without a brain but a good heart - only Reese Witherspoon has done such a good job recently at portraying the west coast bimbos . ( No offense to the west coast bimbos out there . ) The movie's director , Amy Heckerling , has always been rather reliable on the whole and her direction is solid here - she could have turned " Clueless " into a crude , unfunny sex comedy with little wit or brains , but instead she takes a rather dubious idea for a film and transforms it into a well-made , well-acted , funny , inspired , lively , witty satire . Much better than expected .
Much smarter and better than it's given credit for	I won't lie , " First Blood " is no " Deer Hunter . " It doesn't successfully evaluate the post-Vietnam after-effects on the human psyche . But it isn't the human bloodbath people think it is , either . If you want to know a scary statistic , John Rambo ( Sylvester Stallone ) kills one , maybe two people in this film - tops . There's no massacre , and in fact he doesn't let loose until the very end . The curious thing about " First Blood " ( which , by the way , you will notice is not called " Rambo " ) is that Rambo himself is not really the main character . He's an anti-hero in some ways , and in others less so . First of all , he rarely speaks . Second of all , he garners little screen time after the first fifteen minutes ; the middle of the film is devoted solely to the police force trying to chase him down . It's not until the very end that Rambo loses his nut and goes on a rampage , and even then all he does is shoot up stores and he certainly doesn't attack any surprise-attack Viet Cong intruders . In fact this is a very low-key Vietnam-themed survival thriller ( yes , thriller ) and the only reason people think of Rambo in general as this macho killing-machine action icon is the following sequel , " Rambo : First Blood Part II , " which is responsible for every Rambo cliché known to man . You might very well be surprised by how different this film actually is from its sequels .
A nice tie-in to the film	This animated short , included on the tenth anniversary " Clerks X " DVD set , is a deleted scene ( so to speak ) that was excluded from the original shooting script of the film ; in other words , it was written but never actually filmed . Using the " Clerks " TV show animators , Kevin Smith got the original crew back to voice their characters and re-film the deleted scene - - as a cartoon . There's a nice tie-in to " Chasing Amy " here . If you've seen that movie , Alyssa ( Joey Lauren Adams ) references her best friend who dies ; in this scene , we view the funeral . There's some funny stuff with Randal that happens and the animation just works well as a tie-in to both series . This has gotten some bad reviews here on IMDb but I liked it for what it was . It's pretty funny and fits into the chronological timeline of " Clerks . " It's an entertaining short scene and if you ever get the DVD , make sure to watch it after the film as I'm sure you'll enjoy it for what it is .
Stones fans will dig it .	Filmed live in 1968 as an intended television special but kept from the public eye due to the Rolling Stones ' own dissatisfaction with their performance over a span of two nights , " Rock N ' Roll Circus " showcases the Stones at the height of their game . Although I admit they have performed better in terms of musical companionship and melody , there is no denying the amount of energy they exude here . The standout for me is the reggae-infused " Sympathy for the Devil " which sounds like the drunken plea of society's virus . The original came across as a taunt , and this rendition of the song is helpless and a desperate outcry - in a good way , of course . Mick Jagger's vocals have been better and his voice is a bit off - I guess the guys were totally wasted and stoned out of their minds around this time . But watching them on stage , it's hard to deny they were one of the great rock n ' roll bands . They're really not given enough credit for their fusion of blues and mainstream rock - at the time of their emergence , a lot of critics compared them to The Beatles - a comparison both understandable and equally unfair . They did write a few Britpop songs early on , but they always had a bluesy edge that the Beatles - despite their superiority in musical influence and range - never had . If you're into the Stones , this is a must-see . If you're really into the Stones , it's probably a must-own . And if you aren't into the Stones at all , I'd recommend starting off with their double-album Forty Licks ( a Greatest Hits compilation ) .
Clever social satire	Pleasantville , the town , is a metaphor . " Pleasantville , " the movie , is an analysis . Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon star as two American teenagers who magically enter the black-and-white world of Pleasantville through their television set , where they are trapped in a 1950s era of living . The social satire is excellent . The parallels drawn between the squeaky-clean ' 50s and the grungy late ' 90s are actually rather realistic so far as outer layers go . In the film , Maguire's character takes it upon himself to live in harmony but his sister decides to pollute the minds of the town inhabitants by having sex with every boy in sight . Soon the pale world of " Pleasantville " is springing to life with vibrant colors . The more sin enters the town , the more it blooms into our present-day environment . " Pleasantville " is a really clever satire of society and also a clear allegory for racism . It has a lot of things going on but manages to stay funny enough to recommend solely as a silly comedy to those who demand less intelligence from their films . Overall this is funny and clever and biting and probably much better than anyone ever thought it would be .
great serious crime comedy .	For some reason , by the commercials jokes , I thought OCEAN'S ELEVEN would be a bit more slapstick , but it's not . It's barely comedy at all . It's superly filmed , with a great cast , and script . So , are you in or out ? stars . STARRING-GEORGE CLOONEY , MATT DAMON , BRAD PITT , ANDY GARCIA , JULIA ROBERTS , CARL REINER , BERNIE MAC .
Two rooms are horrible , two are very good . . .	I made a blind buy on this one . Why ? I like Tarantino . I like Rodriguez . I enjoy their films . I thought , Why not ? I hadn't heard good things about it , but it looked like it might be good or really bad . The first forty minutes didn't help my initial fears . The first sequence is awful . It's called " The Missing Ingrediant . " It's about witches who check into a hotel room and are missing an ingredient ( male sperm ) to complete one of their potions . Ha-ha . Valerina Golino and Madonna are in this one . The second ( " The Wrong Man " ) is better , but still too messy , crude and weird . The bellboy Ted ( Tim Roth ) is taken hostage in one of the hotel rooms for a seedy sexual game between a man and his wife ( Jennifer Beals ) . The joke wears out fast . The third , " Misbehavors , " directed by Robert Rodriguez , is great fun . It's inspired physical humor in the vein of Chaplin and Keaton . It starts out with Antonio Banderas leaving his kids under the care of Ted the bellhop and they , well , misbehave . It escalates into a frenzy of disaster . Very funny , and Banderas and Roth are great together . The final skit , by Tarantino , " The Man from Hollywood , " is sick but typical Tarantino - all dialogue , references to other actors and films , etc . Lots of profanity , as well . QT casts himself as a director who entices Ted into his suite . There , he finds Bruce Willis and some others ready to chop a guy's finger off as part of a drunken bet . They pay Ted to do the evil deed , but he doesn't know if he has the guts to do it . ( The bet , by the way , inspired by a Hitchcock film with Steve McQueen and Peter Lorre . ) Overall this isn't great and I hated the first half . But the last half makes up for the rest and really flies by fast - I loved Rodriguez's sequence , if the rest of the film had been of that caliber , it would have been a great physical comedy . QT's " wordy " conclusion to the nonsense is kind of apt and the movie ends on a good note . It's also worth noting that Roth's performance in the first half is unbearable , and wonderful in the second half . Very strange , how good directors can transform an actor's performance . Or maybe he was just saving the best for last .
HILARIOUS ! ! A MUST SEE ! ! !	This movie was funny from the beggining , it has great character voices , nicely done smooth graphics , and tons of laughs . I'm not gonna give you the whole plot , but i'll tell you it's definately a must see . ( By the way , the rumors of Chris Farley doing the voice of Shrek - they're true , he had signed on to the contract before he died , and Mike Myers took over for his friend afterwards . )
I Enjoyed it - a Good B Horror Movie Reminiscent of Those From the Fifties . . . Perfect for a Friday Night !	" The Fly II " As I write this review , I have never seen the remake of " The Fly " with Ian Malcolm - err , Jeff Goldblum - and Geena Davis . So I really have no basis to compare this sequel to . Therefore , I will continue with this review in light that I have not seen the original remake . . . The film opens with a Geena Davis Lookalike giving birth to a son ; she dies , the baby lives . Baby grows older , and because he is fly , he grows at a rapid rate , for some reason . I'm not sure why this would make him bigger instead of smaller , but oh well . His name is Martin , and he turns into Eric Stoltz when he is five . Yes , you read that right . Five . Martin is looked over by the head of a company , where he is kept and given medication to keep him from turning into a fly . . . But soon young Martin finds out that not everything is what it seems , and he begins to mutate into . . . THE LIZARD . Well , that's what he looks like , anyway . As I watched this , I kept a careful eye on Eric Stoltz . Why ? Well , as I'm sure everyone knows by now , he was originally cast for Marty McFly for " Back to the Future , " and they filmed much of the movie with him before Bob Zemeckis dropped him for Fox . In fact , there is still a scene where he is diving into the Delorean that is intact . Freeze frame the film and you can see it's not Fox . I always thought that footage looked odd - like it wasn't Fox doing the stunt . . . Anyway , I watched Stoltz and realized how bad he would have been as Marty McFly . He just isn't hyper enough - Michael J . Fox was perfect for Marty , Stoltz would have ruined it . He's not a bad actor , mind you . He's perfect for this role ( well at least " good " for this role ) , but for Marty ? Nah . . . On a side note , I'm not sure if this is a coincidence or bizarre in-joke , but Stoltz's character plays a kid named Martin . . . similar to Fox's character Marty McFly . . . Martin . . . Marty . . . . And , I thought of something else that I haven't seen someone point out before . Marty's last name in " BttF " is McFly . What does Martin turn into in this film ? A FLY ! Martin the Fly , Marty McFly . . . taking a quote from " Uncle Buck " : " Is there a little similarity here ? Ooh , I think there is ! " The film was directed by the creature effects artist of the original - and sequel : Chris Walas . You might recognize his name , because he wrote " Gremlins 2 " and did the creature effects for " Gremlins , " as well . Anyway , he directs the film pretty good for a creature effects artist . . . I guess . . . What I like so much about this movie is its high campy quality . It is a hybrid of B horror movies from the fifties and sixties and the " new breed " of horror films in the eighties , that were like B horror movies with gore . Lots of gore . I guess it doesn't qualify as strictly campy , because the old horror movies were not so disgusting . . . so I just call these films the eighties B horror movies . Simple enough , eh ? I have always been a sucker for the campy horrors from the eighties , especially when they are sequels that tread into old territory . For example , in one scene we see footage of Jeff Goldblum being interviewed . Martin watches this with interest . And what I think is so interesting is that we can look back and say , " Oh , yes , that was before Goldblum knew he was turning into a fly . " It's just interesting to do that . It seems like many films from the eighties would have archive footage from the original film . Anyway , " The Fly II " is a lot like these films . It gives us a glance back at the original . I'm not sure if I can explain in words what this does . It just provides a feeling for me - kind of like campy horrors make some people feel good . I like when horror movies - - or any movies , for that matter - - travel into the film before . . . we can look at the old characters and say , " Oh , yes , that was before this was going to happen . . . " It's just fun to do . I can't describe it in words . This movie , like many horror sequels from the eighties , is just enjoyable . Odd , but enjoyable . It's hard not to have fun watching it . If you take it seriously you're going to have a pretty hard time watching , but if you turn off the brain for two hours you'll have some fun . My only two complaints is that this movie is about a half hour too long , and the creature looks like a lizard and not a fly . Other than that , it is a fun ride . Not great , but a good , well done horror movie that never takes itself too seriously . Perfect for a Friday night . stars - John Ulmer
Bizarrely entertaining - loud , trashy , vulgar . . . fun . Not great , though .	Coming into this I knew it would be action over content - after all it was directed by Robert Rodriguez . The fact that the script was written by Tarantino didn't really mean anything since I had gathered from various sources that this was Tarantino's homage to the " splatstick " genre ( of Evil Dead , etc . ) and as a result the script probably wasn't so hot compared to Pulp Fiction . For the most part this is true . The first half of the movie IS really good in terms of cleverness and Tarantino-style stuff - good dialogue , interesting plot and unlikeable characters . . . unique . The second half , after they cross the border into Mexico - as others here have pointed out - becomes the Evil Dead segment of the film , where everything turns into some over-the-top , bizarre , gross-out vampire blood-'n-guts movie with bad special effects and cheesy scenes . ( Albeit fun ones . ) Some have complained that the transformation from seriousness to sudden vampire comic book content is too fast and the story would have been far more interesting had it been rooted in realism for its entire duration . Yes , and no . Rodriguez set out to make an homage to the spaghetti western / Evil Dead genre and did so . Tarantino's script is just the baseline for it all . It's like a bunch of friends got together and decided to make a movie - albeit friends with fairly good reputations as filmmakers . George Clooney , Harvey Keitel , Tarantino - not a bad cast ! Had this been presented as an epic crime movie Tarantino would have helmed it . However due to the fact that he provided Rodriguez with the script and even performed a commentary track on the film's DVD release ( something he does on none of his own directed films ) just goes to show that Tarantino wasn't in it for the praise - he was in it for the fun and experience . Ditto for everyone else . And in that regard this is a pretty fun movie . Like Rodriguez ' DESPERADO , it's a guilty pleasure for viewers and cast - a bunch of highly esteemed actors get together and have a blast . So no , this is not a great movie . The second half could be replaced with a more serious half and I think it would probably be one of the best thrillers ever if this was done . ( Just imagine how great it could have been if it had been brought to a poetically justified ending with some sort of Gecko Brothers / law enforcement shootout a la Butch Cassidy / Bonnie and Clyde . ) However I understand that's not what Rodriguez and crew set out to do with this movie - they just wanted to make an entertaining cult popcorn blockbuster flick . And they succeeded . It's entertaining and hip and stylish . Recommended .
Better than the first . . . ( spoilers )	M : I2 brings back star Tom Cruise as Ethan Hunt , returning to his role from the first film Cruise seems a bit more confident this time around , and the direction of John Woo might help a bit . This time the plot involves a deadly virus that is going to be sold on th black market . Hunt and his team must hunt down the villians and the virus before it is released . This time around M : I is more on the side of action than a thick and confusing plot . It's not a thinkers movie , it is an action movie . And while Mission Impossible had some great end sequence action , Mission Impossible 2 delivers action the whole way through , with a pleasurable ending . I didn't enjoy M : I very much because I think they either tried to hard or didn't try enough . I found the plot to take too many twists and turns to the point that you didn't really care about the film that much anymore , not because it is confusing but because you do not care about any plot changes , and you just wanted the film to move on and break away from its slow pace . On the other hand M : I2 does the opposite . It moves fast , doesn't have any big twists and turns , and of course with John Woo directing , some very original and interesting fight sequences . The film itself does have flaws , but you do not really care that much because you are having such a good time enjoying the film . The end has non-stop action , leading to a fist-fight / martial arts sequence on a beach that I will not ruin for you . The acting team isn't as big in MI : 1 but Anthony Hopkins makes a nice cameo as Mission Commander Swanbeck , and Ving Rhames returns as Luther Stickell . The main cast listing follows : Tom Cruise . . . . Ethan Hunt Dougray Scott . . . . Sean Ambrose Thandie Newton . . . . Nyah Nordoff-Hall Ving Rhames . . . . Luther Stickell Richard Roxburgh . . . . Hugh Stamp John Polson . . . . Billy Baird Brendan Gleeson . . . . John C . McCloy Rade Serbedzija . . . . Dr . Nekhorvich William Mapother . . . . Wallis Dominic Purcell . . . . Ulrich I would recommend this film to you if you like John Woo films , and / or action films . It's got some great action sequences , some good cinematography ( The beginning sequence proves that ) and some overall good acting ( despite Cruise's big shot attitude ) that makes the film a lot better than Mission Impossible 1 . stars-JOHN ULMER
A great performance by Sean Penn in a good movie	" I Am Sam " is a film with a main performance stronger than the movie itself . Sean Penn was Oscar-nominated for his role as Sam , a mentally retarded father who hires a savvy lawyer ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) to represent him in a custody trial involving his daughter ( Dakota Fanning ) . The courts think Sam isn't fit to be a father due to his mental limitations , but Sam feels otherwise . As Pfeiffer begins representing Sam she realizes he is a good father and feels an emotional attachment to the case that she hasn't experienced when dealing with criminals and the sort . This film came out and received generally negative reviews in 2001 , which I was surprised at considering it's an enjoyable movie . The performances are admittedly much stronger than the actual film ( which has kind of been done in the past ) - Penn deserved his Oscar nom and Pfeiffer is strong and perfect for the role of a lawyer . If you're a fan of the actors you should watch this , but if you don't like Penn or Pfeiffer you should be more reluctant since it's basically a performance film .
Mouse Hunt	' The Green Mile'I have found many prison movies overrated . ' The Shawshank Redemption ' was good , perhaps great , but not the best movie ever ( according to the average IMDb . com user , the film is number two on the list of the best movies ever ) . It was actually quite a rip-off of ' Escape From Alcatraz , ' but that's a different story . What I'm saying is that prison movies tend to be overrated . But ' The Green Mile ' with Tom Hanks was a very nice surprise . Tom Hanks plays a prison guard in the depression-era . He isn't just any prison guard , however . He is a guard on ' The Green Mile , ' which houses criminals on death row . He is under the employment of James Cromwell , and is husband to Bonnie Hunt . And then , one day , a huge giant named John Kofe ? ' like the drink , only spelled different ' - comes into the prison , and miracles start to happen . I won't tell you what happens regarding any of the miracles and such , but I will tell you to look out for the mouse . The acting in ' The Green Mile ' is excellent . Tom Hanks does a great job in his role , quipping a southern accent and a prison ward cap . Michael Clarke Duncan brings John Kofe to life : a sweet , innocent giant . Irony at its best , considering the man is about eight feet tall . The movie plays with the audience's emotions . At times you want to laugh ; at times you want to cry ; at times you want to cheer . But at all times you can't help but participate in the film . The film is long at times - clocking in at over a whopping three hours - but I don't have a problem with that . I'm not in any rush . I came to watch a movie , and that's what I'm going to do . I'm not one of those people that complain about the length of time a film has . If I don't feel like watching a movie , then why did I even go see a movie in the first place ? ' The Green Mile ' was adapted to the screen by Frank Darabont , who brought us ' The Shawshank Redemption . ' Between the two , I'm not sure which I like better . They are both very good movies . If you haven't seen this movie , I highly recommend it . It is easily one of the most enjoyable movies I have seen in a long time . stars ?
Really dumb and pointless	The beginning at least was interesting , but once out at sea the film took a turn for the worst , here's why : ACTING : Horrible , save a few small parts ( isn't that how it always is ? ) DIRECTION : It's all crazy , and we wonder " what WAS the director trying to show ? " But you learn you can't figure it out when the camera is swinging around half the time . PLOT : The plot itself could have been made interesting , but what the end all result / theory was is just plain stupid . The last half hour is all so boring and predictable . And what about the cgi on the boat at the end ? FLAWS : Too many to mention . Nothing the character ( s ) did was realistic , and of course this is usually the case with these kind of thrillers / horrors . But THE TRIANGLE was so ridiculous and not fun that I can not put aside the flaws for the fun of the film's sake-because there is no fun involved in this mishap of a " film ! " If you like really dumb , unintelligent , stupid , boring , ridiculous film , by all means , the triangle is made for you ! stars-JOHN ULMER .
Good - not great .	Like he did with most movie buffs , Bryan Singer first attracted my attention with " The Usual Suspects . " The film had some directorial flaws that some of its die-hard fans occasionally tend to overlook - but it revealed true promise in its director . " X-Men " was the next step forward - the comeback ( or revolution ) that comic book movies needed . Today , we've had a string of successful adaptations - " Spider-Man " 1 & 2 , " Batman Begins " - but " X-Men " was coming only a few years after " Batman & Robin " had proved the genre dead . Singer resurrected it . " X-Men 2 " was even better - deeper , darker , and more mature . So when I read that McG had been bumped from the new " Superman " and the directorial reigns had been handed over to Singer , I was thrilled . Unfortunately , the end result didn't quite meet my expectations . I have never really been a fan of the original " Superman " movies - or even the character at all , really . You should bear that in mind while reading my review . I don't read comic books , but I am familiar with the more popular characters , and I have always cherished Batman the most because he's a regular human - with no special powers - trying to do good in the world . He uses his anger not to cause more pain , but to serve justice . Christopher Nolan channeled this superbly in " Batman Begins " - the dark fury of the character - and Singer tries to channel a similar " dark side " to Superman here , but it doesn't really work . It betrays the more lighthearted moments of the movie , and probably the biggest flaw of all is this : when you have an ( almost ) flawless guy like Superman as your main character in a movie , it's going to be hard trying to get everyone to relate . Singer is smart by trying to expose Superman's ( or , really , Clark Kent's ) romantic struggles - it shows the nerdy side of Clark : the awkward , fumbling man who wants so desperately to find approval for who he _ really _ is in the eyes of his one true love , Lois Lane - but finds she has fallen for his alter ego , the macho Superman . This concept is the strongest element of Singer's film . Critics who have complained that the film is too heavy on romance are missing the point . How exciting would it be to see two hours of Superman - almost invincible - running around being destroyed by nothing before finally , at the end , meeting a true challenge in Lex Luther ? The tender human side of this film is what elevates it above the other " Superman " movies , but there is still only so far you can go , because Clark isn't human . There's a classic oxymoron in the name " Superman " : as his father ( archived Marlon Brando footage ) told him , he is not " one of them . " He is not a man . He's super , all right . But he isn't a super man . Is this movie good ? Yes . Will it please the die-hard Superman fans ? Fans of the comics - perhaps . Fans of the original film series - probably not . It's much darker , longer and less humorous ( although it still has plenty of comedic moments ) . I walked away from the film feeling fairly disappointed , simply because for a film that is over two and a half hours long and has so many moments that approach excellence ( and even manage to channel the directorial influence of Stanley Kubrick , for goodness sake ! ) , it never quite makes it into the realm of " Spider-Man , " " Batman Begins " or even " X-Men . " It's a bit of a step backwards for Singer - he seems overwhelmed with the big budget ( his opening twenty minutes or so are really , really messy and had audience members in my screening asking what was happening - it's a bit too vague and random ) , and having to work with past material . It may have been easier for him - based on what he has achieved in the past - to merely start the series over a la " Batman Begins " and separate his project from the previous " Superman " universe . I admire what Singer has done here , in parts , but I think it's easy to see that the $200 million drove him to his brink - he's better working with more intimate productions . I'd recommend this film because it _ does _ have some breathtaking moments . But I think with some better editing it could have been cut down to a smooth two hours or so - but even then I have my doubts as to whether the material could have held up . As I said above - translating the character of Superman through the screen is a hard enough task , simply because it's much harder to make his exploits engaging and have the audience relate to them . All considered , Singer did much better on this than most directors probably could have . He actually has created a few scenes here wherein a new side of Superman is revealed - and that is when the film is at its best .
A fun , enjoyable family movie albeit far from perfect .	" Fun with Dick and Jane " is a solid , well-made family movie , although it goes without saying that it's not perfect . Dick ( George Segal ) is a successful upper-class businessman who suddenly loses his job when his boss ( Ed McMahon ) fires him . His wife , Jane ( Jane Fonda ) , soon finds her world turned upside-down as she is hard-pressed to afford the most simple commodities . In a last-ditch effort , the couple turn to harmless crime such as robbing banks ( never killing people - it is a PG movie after all and they aren't Bonnie and Clyde , as the tagline says ) , until they decide to even rip off Dick's ex-boss at one of his Christmas parties . The movie is being remade this year with Jim Carrey ( originally to co-star Cameron Diaz , who pulled out ) and I don't think it's necessary . The original works as an amiable , entertaining family comedy and a remake set today would only seem redundant . The cast is strong - McMahon is a scene-stealer and Fonda and Segal have good chemistry . It's a lite version of " Bonnie and Clyde " with a predictably fairy-tale-happy ending and likable characters . It's not ugly or mean-spirited , it's just a nice family film - and what more would you expect from a movie called " Fun with Dick and Jane " ? ( Well , other than porn , obviously . )
A pretty good government thriller with some nice twists . . .	Having lived around the outskirts of Washington , D . C . myself , it's always a nice treat to watch a film that literally takes place right where I have stood , at one time or another . It's just very fun to know that a famous movie was shot where you once walked . ( Although I now regret visiting the set of " 101 Dalmations " in London - - that's one story I don't often tell people with a smile on my face . ) At the beginning of " No Way Out , " we get to see Washington from above as the camera glides through the air , swerving and going around in circles , until we land inside a small interrogation room housing a convicted murderer ( Kevin Costner ) , who is in fact innocent and has been framed . " When's he coming out ? " he asks as he walks over to a one-way mirror and looks through the glass . Right as we start to think , " Whom is he talking to ? " ( Or " Does he mean Hackman ? " if you've read anything about the film ) , we fall backwards in time and land in the same place some number of months earlier . " No Way Out " is a government thriller about an officer wrongly accused of murder - - when the Secretary of State himself is the culprit trying to avoid a scandal by launching a top-secret cover-up . Costner is the officer , and Gene Hackman is the Secretary of State . After meeting a beautiful young woman ( Sean Young ) at a party , Costner takes her into a limo and they have a quickie - - before they even know each other's names . What's this got to do with anything ? Why is my review so choppy and linear-challenged ? We'll get there . The relationship between the two turns into a big romance until Costner is sent out to sea , where he saves a sailor from falling overboard and is praised in all the papers - - where his girlfriend back home sees his face and is reminded of him . ( Now she's the mistress of Hackman , by the way - - that complicates matters quite a bit . ) When he arrives back home , they go on a romantic getaway - - but Hackman finds out and accidentally murders the girl while trying to get her to tell him the name of her lover . Ready to turn himself in , Hackman is persuaded by his gay friend to cover everything up and blame someone else . The gay man even goes and gets rid of the evidence himself - - with pride , I might add . ( It's like Mr . Burns and Smithers from " The Simpsons " - - the latter loves the former , but the former is too powerful and naive to ever notice . ) The clever twist in " No Way Out " is that Costner knows Hackman killed Young , but Hackman doesn't know that he knows that . ( Get it ? ) As he runs around the Pentagon and other government establishments , the evidence starts to pile up against him - - the negative off the back of a Polaroid camera , a few eyewitnesses who claim they saw a man outside Young's apartment the night of her murder , etc . The great thing about " No Way Out , " and another factor that separates it from the rest of its kind , is something that's hard to explain to someone who hasn't seen the film . Essentially , no one knows who killed the girl - - and Costner isn't placed under arrest straight away because no one has uncovered any evidence pointing towards him . As the negative off the back of the Polaroid is scanned through a computer and painstakingly altered to reveal the man's face on the photo , Costner runs around trying to eliminate evidence before anyone finds out . The photo will eventually reveal his own face , yes , but he has a number of hours until then to find the true evidence that convicts Hackman . This is a smart thriller with a few pleasant twists , particularly the very end . It's not a great movie by any means , but it's well-acted and solidly directed by Roger Donaldson , who also made last year's " The Recruit " with Al Pacino and Colin Farrell . The guy obviously likes government thrillers . This one is a lot more plausible than " The Recruit , " too . stars . - John Ulmer
The director and actors of " Being John Malkovich " are having this dream , and to them it makes sense , but to the audience , it doesn't , because we are watching the dream from the outside - and that i	Being John MalkovichSome films released nowadays strive to be essentially original and in no way interesting . While " Being John Malkovich " is both original and interesting - to a certain degree - it is in no way a great movie . John Cusack plays a puppeteer named Craig , whom is married to a frizzle-haired woman named Lotte ( Cameron Diaz ) . They live in a small apartment with exotic animals , including iguanas , parrots , and a chimp named Elijah , which has a repressed mental problem . Cusack's character gets a job in the classifieds as filer for a company with small overhead . ( Literally ! ) He lusts after a fellow worker , named Maxine ( Catherine Keener ) , but she ignores him . One day while he's working , a file drops behind a cabinet and when he goes to retrieve it , he finds a small door leading into a dark vessel . ( Much like the rabbit hole in " Alice in Wonderland . " ) After crawling through the hole-in-the-wall , Craig finds that it leads into John Malkovich's head . Yes , that's right , John Malkovich's head . Anyone who enters can see out of Malkovich's head for fifteen minutes . and maybe longer . After telling Lotte and his fellow associate Maxine about his wonderful and exuberating experience , Craig is lured into opening a small business centered entirely on the hole in the wall , and soon people from all over are entering John Malkovich's head for a large fee . But pretty soon , chaos ensues , and Diaz's character is entering Malkovich's head so she can be with other women . And as all this happens , Malkovich begins to suspect that something is going on - he is losing control over his own body . But why - and how ? The film really has no sense of reality . It starts out with an odd feeling , but it is enjoyable . Everything is symbolic , and the surroundings bring out emotions in the characters . It's a bit like the beginning of " Joe versus the Volcano , " where Hanks practically lives in that stuffy office . Remember how dark and dank the office was ? That's what John Cusack's office in the film is like - everyone must crouch over as to not hit the ceiling . But much like " Joe versus the Volcano , " the movie begins to withdraw itself into just plain crazy . Nothing makes sense at all , and the film starts to achieve a sick sense of reality . ( Diaz turns into a lesbian , for one thing , and the film treats it like it is normal . ) For example , when Diaz is having an affair with Keener , and Cusack's character knows about it , he doesn't seem to care a whole lot about the fact that his wife is cheating on him . It just doesn't make sense , really . But I'll give the film the fact that it is strangely original and startlingly provocative . I mean , really , who ever thought about making a film where someone enters John Malkovich's head ? And what about all the stuff later in the film ? It is more than original - it is just plain . weird ! John Cusack does a great job as Craig . He looks like a sixties hippy with his long , greasy hair and geeky countenance . Cameron Diaz is completely dissolved in her character . She looks so ugly and different in this film that you think , is that REALLY her ? Catherine Keener , who was just in " S1m0ne " with Al Pacino , definitely got her career kick-started out of this film . I don't recall seeing her in many things before this movie . And John Malkovich is . well . John Malkovich . Director Spike Jonze does a good thing with the idea he is given , and the film uses so many ideas that they could fill at least ten movies themselves . Unfortunately , because of the way the film turns out to be , I didn't enjoy it that much . Maybe I didn't love it because I expected so much , and because it lost me half way through . I followed it in the beginning , and understood how everything was symbolic , but after the halfway point the film starts to not really make any sense and just gets weird . In one scene we see some individuals running through Malkovich's subconscious - what a weird scene ! You know those dreams that you have sometimes - the kind of dreams that make absolutely no sense at all ? But while you're having the dream , everything seems normal ? That's what ' Being John Malkovich ' is - one of those weird dreams that make no sense but seem like they make perfect sense while you're dreaming them . Almost . Unfortunately , while the filmmakers treated the film like it made absolute sense while filming it , the audience can tell it doesn't make sense while they watch it - it is such that the audience is a bystander of the filmmakers ' dream . The director and actors of " Being John Malkovich " are having this dream , and to them it makes sense , but to the audience , it doesn't , because we are watching the dream from the outside - and that is perhaps the biggest fault of the film . But it is , nevertheless , one of the strangest movies I have ever seen , and I have to give it some kind of credit for that . To not do so would be ignorant . stars - John Ulmer
About on par with " Silence of the Lambs " in my opinion	" Manhunter " was the first actual Hannibal Lector movie , although his name is " Lecktor " in this version . It was based off of the Thomas Harris novel " Red Dragon , " which writer-director Michael Mann adapted himself and transformed into a very different kind of film . It was remade in 2002 as " Red Dragon " starring Edward Norton , Harvey Keitel , and of course Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal . ( It was , in my opinion , the best movie of the series so far - though many disagree . ) " Manhunter " is almost as good , and about on par with " Silence of the Lambs " in my opinion . William Peterson ( " To Live and Die in L . A . , " TV's " CSI " ) plays the role of Will Graham , an ex-detective drawn out of retirement by a cop named Jack ( Dennis Farina , who you might have also seen on TV a few times before , har-har ) to hunt down a serial killer who seems to be choosing his victims at random . Will enlists the help of imprisoned serial killer Hannibal Lecktor ( Brian Cox , " Adaptation " ) to track down the serial killer . First things first : this movie is NOT a Hannibal Lecktor film . It's a Will Graham film . Lecktor is in it a bit , but his presence is not as strong . It's not as intellectual and subtle as " Silence of the Lambs , " which is ironic because Mann is actually quite a subtle director . It's more of a bloody , gory thriller rather than a quiet serial killer film . Then again , I think " Red Dragon " always was more of a horror-thriller than the others . ( Hannibal had yet to be truly developed in the novel . ) Mann does a good job of creating a solid thriller that's scary , suspenseful and surprising . The acting isn't as strong as " Red Dragon " or " Lambs " ( I won't mention Ridley Scott's " Hannibal " ) and Cox isn't as impressive as Anthony Hopkins . But overall I liked the film better . I really enjoyed Mann's direction ( as always ) and found it more entertaining than " Silence of the Lambs , " which I think is overrated ( good , but nevertheless overrated ) . If you liked " Silence of the Lambs , " you may not like this , because it's a big change . And if you saw " Red Dragon , " you might prefer Brett Ratner's vision for the series . However , I personally think " Manhunter " is a well-made , underrated suspense film - the forgotten entry in the Hannibal Lecktor / Lecter series , and a movie that should be seen regardless of your blind love for all things Hopkins .
Pretty good overall	Based on Shakespeare's " Taming of the Shrew , " " 10 Things I Hate About You " offers a refreshing revival of the " good " teen films , as compared to the " typical " teen films . It's based on Shakespeare's story somewhat loosely . It's about a teenaged girl whose father will not allow her to date . Finally he comes up with a clever idea - if she can convince her older sister ( who is a strict , boring " b " ) to date someone , the younger sibling can as well . Her father knows this is as realistic as saying " When pigs begin to fly " but then he can't be accused of being unfair . " 10 Things . . . " is overall pretty good . It's better than I thought it would be . It has some funny moments , it's got a talented cast with some older actors popping up in various humorous roles , etc . It's not as refreshing or unique as a John Hughes teen comedy but it certainly plays upon some of the clichÃ©s of the genre ( invented by Hughes no less ) to good effect . Overall , I was impressed with the movie , and the actors , and that's saying a lot considering it's a teen film ( a genre I have come to loathe recently with entries such as " Slackers " etc . ) .
Pixar's Worst , But One of Animation's Finest in Recent Years . . .	" Toy Story " was rooted in the fundamentals of childhood memories . All of us as children just KNEW our toys were alive . That they could talk . In turn , we played with them as if they were real . But soon it hit us that they were just pieces of plastic with limbs , and tossed them out . That's what " Toy Story " did - - it reinvented not only animation , but imagination ; it was not only a children's film , but an adult's film , as well . It brought back fond memories of all of our childhood fantasies . But what " A Bug's Life " does is simply toss together a few characters and have them bounce jokes off each other . This film , by itself , is excellent , but when compared to something smart , intelligent and witty , such as , say , Pixar's " Toy Story , " it looks like pure commercialism ; Pixar's only downfall . A small ant named Flick ( voiced by Dave Foley ) is a real mess ; a klutz , so to speak . He and his colony of ants , presided over by a new Queen Ant , are harvesting food for the naughty Evil Grasshoppers who come every year to gather food from the ant's hard work . But because of Flick the harvest is lost , and when the grasshoppers show up they are mad . Hopper , the lead grasshopper ( Kevin Spacey ) is pretty " flicked " off , and demands more hard work and labor . Everyone is mad at Flick . . . until he hires circus talents to fight off the grasshoppers , and tells the ants they are fierce warriors . Restoring their confidence to fight , the ants set up a series of attacks for when the grasshoppers arive , until they find out the truth behind Flick's lie ( s ) . " A Bug's Life , " like " Toy Story " and " Monsters , Inc . , " is a fairly simple idea . But , unlike the other Pixar films , it is missing a vital element : identification with the audience . In " Toy Story " we identified with the story ; we were all kids once and had toys . The story just worked because it played with that . In " Monsters , Inc . , " the idea of monsters was played upon . All children at one time or another were scared of monsters under the bed , and by presenting us the monster's side of the story , " Monsters , Inc . , " could be enjoyed by both children and adults . And then there's " A Bug's Life . " No identification here . How many of us have been bugs before ? Exactly . Maybe on a more emotional level we can identify with Flick the Ant , but on a visible basis , we simply cannot . There really is no fun in the storyline . The story / film is above-average in terms of regular animated motion pictures , but in terms of Pixar films , it is simply a film best to be forgotten in Pixar's otherwise strong resume . Let's all hope that " Finding Nemo , " Pixar's upcoming summer film , is better than the ads lead to believe , because if I have it correct , I predict another " A Bug's Life " for Pixar next year . stars - John Ulmer
Why does everyone hate this so much ?	I'll be first to admit that I hate teen comedies in general and typically frown upon most of them - I didn't even like " There's Something About Mary " too much , although I'm not sure it's really a " teen " film . I own all three " American Pie " films on DVD because they are one of the few teen series whose characters seem real and you actually feel empathy for . They're not awkward characterizations of real people without emotions - the movie takes time setting up their personalities , quirks , etc . , and then places them in embarrassing situations . For example , the movie " Swingers . " That telephone call Favreau makes is a painful experience for the viewer . Would it have been so painful if we hadn't gotten to know him throughout the movie ? " American Pie " is kinda like that . It works well because of the characters . It's crude , yes . It's crass , very . It's sexist , maybe . But that's how guys are . It doesn't exploit these elements as many teen sex comedies do - some are moderately entertaining ( like the Johnny Depp film " Private Resort " ) but unbelievable and basically just lots of skin . " American Pie " is better , one of the best of its genre . Everyone seems to hate the first sequel , which was released in 2001 , a couple years after the original . Jim ( Biggs ) returns from college and hangs out for the summer at a beach house with his best pals . But with Stiffler ( Seann William Scott ) there , it's not too easy because they soon end up in more embarrassing situations . This movie is very similar to the original and normally I have a problem with this . Basically all the scenes are " updates " on scenes that existed in the original . E . g . the lesbian strip over the walkie-talkies , the incident with the glue , the whole thing with Stiffler's mom and Finch . Nevertheless it is effective , entertaining and funny . The characters are given more room to develop and believe it or not , I think I like this better than the first film . ( The third is probably my favorite , if only for the focus on Stiffler and the introduction of Fred Willard , one of the great character actors of our time . ) " American Pie 2 " is somewhat recycled and some people may find it one of those " pointless " sequels , but I liked it , and this is coming from a guy who typically loathes these films - so considering I'm giving this seven stars , that says quite a lot . Either I'm out of my mind or there's something about these films that's just more accessible and likable than others in their genre .
I admire its theatrical scope but it has not aged well at all	As a critic , a lot of times it's hard to successfully evaluate a movie of classic stature . It's always a bit daunting and intimidating sitting down to watch a milestone classic for the first time . If you don't like it , what then ? I bought Stanley Kubrick's " 2001 " on DVD along with the ( far superior ) " Clockwork Orange . " I have watched it since I was a child and admire this movie for its theatrical scope - as a movie buff , this is a milestone for me and my viewing experience because it is a breakthrough in narrative and for that reason alone I am thankful . I will always remember it and always take it into mind as one of the best examples of a director holding an audience and controlling them in his grip . But ( and this is a huge " but " ) it has not aged well over the years . Many of its scenes that depict space travel had audiences sprawled in awe - it was the first feature film to really depict outer space as something realistic ( and man hadn't even landed on the moon yet ! ) . But compared to today's films , it is not very good . It is corny , overlong and unrealistic . Back then , it was a reason to see the film . Now , it's not impressive at all . This may seem ignorant , but think about it for a minute - why should we praise a film for being " the first of its kind " when other films have come along and done the same thing , much better ? I understand doing this to a certain extent - but to say " 2001 " is great solely because of its effects and for being " the first " is silly , as far as I see it , because much of it now just isn't very good . Cinema elitists enjoy explaining the reason it is still " great " because of its effects . The point they seem to always bring up is " . . . at the time of its release . . . " . I understand this but _ now _ it is no longer fascinating as it's been done many times since . Kubrick is too fascinated with long empty passages of nothingness . It's like some self-indulgent ego-trip - take the opening for example . Four minutes ( ! ) of absolutely nothing occurring on screen , just eerie music . Finally it opens , like some sort of epic opera and we are shown the planet's eclipse with the famous soundtrack , etc . I find this incredibly poor storytelling , not because I think it's " boring " or " too slow " but because it is pointless . I admire long movies ( " Once Upon a Time in America " 4-hour version is wonderful ) but " 2001 " has many scenes that go on endlessly , needlessly . There's a difference between slowness ( any Leone film will be ) but at least Leone uses this as a canvass for exploring something - Kubrick , many times in this particular film ( and maybe only this film ) , doesn't really " show " us anything meaningful . It's like we're staring at a moving spacecraft for two minutes . I check my watch at three minutes when the music is starting to tell us it may be over soon and I think , " Did that in any way actually improve the story itself , or show us anything useful ? " No . It's basically bragging to the audience - " look how good it looks . " Problem is it looks like crap nowadays . The critics tend to love this long nothingness because of its artistic merits . And I somewhat understand this - I can understand praising " 2001 " for its uniqueness , its powerful narrative . But the fact of the matter is that as a movie it's simply not very good because of this ! It has dated very poorly . E . g . the space station segments - they are one of the only moments in the film with extensive dialogue . The " futuristic " suits are laughably ' 60s-ish and some of the ideas in the movie about communication via video , etc . are ludicrous . That happens in any movie after a certain amount of time , but " 2001 " almost entirely depends upon this . I feel the actual story itself is weak . Kubrick is at a loss for anything useful so he delays it by continually showing us exterior shots of spacecraft and planets in tune with classical pieces . It just gets to be too much after a while . This all said , please understand I am not putting down this movie . I still admire it very much for what it is and will watch it for years to come . But as a piece of entertainment , as a movie . . . I find it poor and self-indulgent on Kubrick's behalf . It lacks the satirical bite of " A Clockwork Orange . " The end sequence is horribly outdated with drug-trip visuals ( it was rumored to have been one of the movies stoners would go see on a regular basis ! ) . Like everything in this movie , it goes on too long - look at " Easy Rider " and " Midnight Cowboy . " Both have ' 60s / ' 70s druggie sequences but both end before becoming intolerable - " 2001 " goes on too long . . . My review may seem very incomplete , ignorant and contradictory but if I had to explain it all in summary I'd just say this : " 2001 " is a piece of art , but it is not a good movie in any way . I have seen art house films with better plots ( " Punch-Drunk Love , " " Magnolia " ) and more involving stories . " 2001 " is a showcase for special effects and directorial styles - but now it is very outdated and alienating and this is my biggest problem with it . I can't rate this movie because I would rate it in some ways , but very low in others . As a movie it's simply not very good - as a breakthrough / unique art-house type picture it's a great example of how a director can control a movie to the fullest .
Actually quite fun - stupid B-movie , but that's the point	The cliches are all in place : - Hero and heroine - Lots of victims - Weird genetical mutation hybrid let loose in a confined area - All hell breaks looseIt might sound like ALIEN and I think that's the point . Tom Sizmore , as always , is great . The special effects at the end are rather shoddy , but it retains the feel of those cheesy " classic " B-movies , with a slightly larger budget , set in modern times . Not a great film , but a good B-movie homage with some good scenes , tense action , decent acting ( given the sort of film this is ) and just plain fun stuff to be enjoyed by anyone looking for brainless " popcorn entertainment . " Recommended , surprisingly .
An interesting and entertaining study of women's baseball	I've seen this numerous times on cable over the years . While it isn't a perfect film , it is a nice little enjoyable flick for a Sunday afternoon - you could do worse . When the men were shipped off to fight in World War II , there wasn't anyone left to play baseball . Fearing financial losses , women were hired to fill in for the men's absence - forming major and minor league teams and putting on games like the boys did . This is based on a true story and stars Geena Davis as the main character . Tom Hanks plays her alcoholic coach , who has trouble accepting his position as a women's coach - he kind of resents the idea of coaching females in general . Madonna has a co-star role as one of the baseball players , and it was her name on the credits that really helped make this a success back in ' 92 - without her it wouldn't have been quite as marketable . The cast is overall pretty good . There are some recognizable faces like Jon Lovitz to add humor to the mix . And the story is well told without coming across as smug . It's not a great movie but if you're in the mood for gentle entertainment , it's a good choice .
A good film with great performances	This was one of Matt Damon's early performances that really helped separate him from Affleck in the acting department . He plays Rudy Baylor , a law school student who ( with the help of Danny DeVito's character ) tries to take on the bad guys of conglomerate America . I read the novel by John Grisham , a writer who has never really impressed me very much in terms of characterization ( if you'll notice all his protagonists are almost identical ) but the movie has solid performances that help define everyone . Damon is impressive , and Mickey Rourke ( in his third pairing with Francis Ford Coppola ) turns in a short but memorable performance as a corrupt and ignorant man . Overall this may not be great but the performances are , and it was one of Coppola's few good films from the 1990s .
" South Park " without the South Park	This episode was a stroke of genius by Trey and Matt . At the end of Season One they put a cliffhanger - who is Cartman's real father ? - and told viewers to tune in next season to find out . But then at the beginning of Season Two they aired a full episode of Terrence and Phillip instead ! Apparently they received many complaints by angry fans who were dying to see what happened with Cartman's father , but down the road it really was a stroke of genius and a daring thing to do . Most shows would never be able to get away with something like that . It's a great example of comedians manipulating and playing their audiences - much in the same way that Andy Kaufman used to - by using extended practical jokes . The episode itself was hailed by Matt and Trey as their favorite of all-time on the Season Two DVD , but I think they were both being sarcastic ( nevertheless , this " trivia " note made it onto IMDb ) . It's a weird episode purely because South Park and its residents - most noticeably Kyle , Stan , Kenny and Cartman - are completely absent and it's all just a Terrence and Phillip episode . So it gets a bit old after a while , but it's mostly funny for its back story .
Almighty Then	" Bruce Almighty " is a lot like Jim Carrey's other projects . Which isn't to say it isn't funny , but it is quite recycled and doesn't pun some of the things it could and should have . Now don't get me wrong , it is anything but boring , and anything but unfunny . . . but it is a lot like his other projects . A funny down-on-his-luck loser ( " Dumb and Dumber " ) gets a supernatural power ( " The Mask " ) , and in the end wins back the girl ( " Ace Ventura " ) and makes a good name for himself ( " Me , Myself and Irene " ) . But in the same context , it is more clever and thought-provoking than his other projects . Jim Carrey plays Bruce , a generally happy , soon-to-be-married man who desperately wants to be a news reporter . Unfortunately , he ends up being fired from his job , and when this happens , he curses God . The next day his pager beeps , and Bruce calls up the number . He is given instructions on where to drive to . He follows them and ends up finding God's temporary headquarters . God is a black man ( Morgan Freeman ) surprisingly enough . I like Morgan Freeman , so I won't get into the racial technicalities . Anyway , God gives Bruce his powers for one week to see how well he can handle being the master of the earth , and immediately afterwards Bruce finds he has more than odd capabilities . However , much is the case with most things , Bruce finds his world also shaken by his newfound powers . He has to answer prayers , for one thing , and his relationship with Grace ( Jennifer Aniston ) starts to suffer due to his ever-growing greed . In the end , Bruce starts to realize it's not so easy being God . " Bruce Almighty " is a very engaging , sweet , and harmless film , but like I said before , it is so much like Jim Carrey's other films that he seems to be making an Adam Sandler mould out of his career . One of the things I liked so much about " Groundhog Day " was how it showed what your average Joe would do given the power to repeat one day over and over and over again . " Bruce Almighty " has a very interesting and original plot , something uncommon for a comedy these days , but it unfortunately doesn't show Bruce using his newfound powers as much as he could have . But regardless , the scenes where Bruce is experimenting not only entertain you , but actually make the time fly by . I really enjoyed this movie . It isn't exactly as great as it could have been , but I don't think that was the intention . Learning from their mistakes on " The Majestic , " Jim Carrey ( and " Bruce Almighty's " filmmakers ) achieved their goal of making a thoroughly entertaining , if somewhat repetitive film that doesn't pretend to be anything it isn't : A Jim Carrey movie . Yes , they could have made something more interesting , dramatic , serious and hilarious , but I don't think that's what the Jim Carrey audiences want , and I think that the filmmakers are smart , in a way , for paying attention to this . stars - John Ulmer
Very Steve Martin-ish .	If you're familiar with Steve Martin's stand-up , you'll know he opts for an odd mix of satire and excess . Cinematically his self-written " Roxanne " and " L . A . Story " capture his sense of humor the most prominently - Martin's always good in any role but these two films in particular best represent his sense of humor . " L . A . Story " is more of a satire than " Roxanne " ( a remake of a classic French film about a man with a large nose ) but it still has its moments of intellectual humor Martin is known for - such as when he talks about astrology to Roxanne ( Daryll Hannah ) in her home . The movie is about a sweet-natured guy with a huge nose who lives in a small northern American town . When a beautiful new neighbor moves in near him his heart goes wild and he tries to woo her , but she doesn't consider him more than a friend . When a hunk-y but dim-witted guy catches her eye , Martin provides romantic counseling , intervening into their relationship to add his own special touches - writing poems under the other guy's name , for example . Basically Roxanne falls in love with Martin's character , but she thinks it's the hunk who's doing everything on his own accord , so she has no clue . It's an odd little film and a bit too whimsical at times for my liking . I found Martin's character a bit odd and the whole approach to his love for Roxanne - it's not really that well-expanded in the film and he's a very strange , almost creepy guy because he's SO consistently happy that he seems more like an alien than a human being . That said , the movie has some classic scenes - like the verbal bar fight of 20 insults ( which is sooo Steve Martin ) - and overall is an entertaining , if not particularly memorable , romantic comedy that is nevertheless much better than other films in its genre . Sweet , amiable , good-natured : how could you not like it ?
Good , But Took Quite a While to Get to Where it Was Going . . .	" About a Boy " Hugh Grant has been considered for the next James Bond according to a certain film magazine . Well , I for one forsee the downfall of James Bond as we know it . The considerations are a black actor , Hugh Grant , Christian Bale , and Jude Law , not to mention another black actor : Will Smith . Yes , you read that right . Apart from black actors - - really , Bond being black ? - - Hugh Grant is probably the worst choice for Bond . But as far as romantic comedies go , he's not that bad . " About a Boy " is about a childish , whiny , selfish , greedy , miserable young man ( Grant ) who finds that single parents are best for dating . So he enters into a single parents group , where he proceeds to tell the lie that he has a child . Soon , he is going out with a woman who believes he has a son - - who introduces him to a friend's pre-teen , named Marcus . Marcus ' mother attempts to commit suicide , and it screws up the kid , so he starts to go over to Grant's home every day after school . Grant eventually admits he has no child , and the woman he had been going out with pretty much dumps him . But Marcus keeps coming over every day . Eventually Grant starts to help Marcus out by trying to help him fit into his school better ; he buys him " trainers , " CDs , a personal CD player , etc . And then Grant's character meets Rachel ( Rachel Weisz ) , who he proceeds to tell that he has a son , for certain reasons . So eventually Rachel wants to see his son . Trouble . And then Grant gets Marcus to pose as his son while he gets personal with Rachel . Trouble solved . For now . " About a Boy " is based on the bestselling novel by Nicholas Hornby , author of " High Fidelity " - - which was turned into a film with John Cusack that took place in Chicago instead of London - - and a few other hits . I've never read his work , but I think it's been done justice for the most part . " About a Boy " is a good comedy , with some funny British humor . It was good , but not great . I enjoyed " Notting Hill " more , to tell you the truth . I think " About a Boy " took quite a long time getting to where it was going . Ranking in at about two hours , that's a bit long for a romantic comedy , especially when the love interest is introduced an hour and nine minutes into the film . The setup itself takes over an hour to establish . Many , many scenes could have been cut to make room for more time after Grant meets Rachel . But instead , the filmmakers take so much time building up to that point , that by the time they finally arrive to the romance part , they have about fifty minutes to deal with a LOT of things that happen . Perhaps that is why the last hour seems so rushed and thrown together compared to the beginning . But it's still a pretty funny film . I'm not especially fond of Hugh Grant , but his romantic comedies can be pretty good - - I really enjoyed " Notting Hill , " and I don't like Roberts , either . " The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill But Came Down a Mountain " was also a good British comedy . And there's no doubting " About a Boy " is good , but it's not great , and a lot of scenes could and should have been cut . Isn't it ironic that I think one of the deleted scenes on the DVD should have been left in the film ? Stars - - or Stars - - John Ulmer
I like ' dem french fried pertaters !	This short spoof is a parody of the movies " Swingers " and " Sling Blade , " both independent films released in 1996 through Miramax Pictures . " Swing Blade " is about Karl Childers , the lovable retard from " Sling Blade , " and his attempts to pick up chicks on the " Swingers " scene . In one very funny part - a spin on the popular phone call segment from " Swingers " - Karl leaves a woman some rather puzzling messages on her answering machine . This is a short , funny and ultimately enjoyable little parody . It's nothing extremely funny , but if you ever happen to stumble across the " Swingers : Collector's Edition " DVD , you might as well check this out . If you've seen either film you'll definitely find it to be rather humorous .
A witty satire that doesn't take sides on the smoking controversy .	A clever satire of the spin-world ( thanks largely to its cast and a witty script by Jason Reitman ) , Thank You For Smoking comes on like Wag the Dog via The Insider ? it's a painfully honest insight into the tobacco industry , led by the narration of Nick Naylor ( Aaron Eckhart ) , the Big Tobacco corporation's chief spokesman . His narcissistic self-infatuation ( " Charles Manson kills people ; I talk . " ) and sleazy tactics land him in trouble when he finds himself bribing a lung cancer victim in front of his pre-teen son , who is not yet old enough to smoke but is being influenced by his money-driven father . Nick has a lot on his mind . He's got pressure from an anti-smoking Senator ( played brilliantly by William H . Macy ) , his boss , his ex-wife , fanatical groups on homicidal missions , a double-crossing reporter ( Katie Holmes ) and a Hollywood producer ( Rob Lowe ) trying to cast the perfect Hollywood glamorization of smoking ( Brad Pitt and Catherine Zeta-Jones are offered as the leads ) . The movie , directed by the son of Ivan Reitman ( the " Ghosbusters " director / producer extraordinaire ) , balances absurdity with realism ; moments of the film come across as poignant reflection while following scenes are completely the opposite . This balance is thrown off a bit sometimes ? David Koechner's portrayal of an NRA lobbyist is great but feels out of place , as if it belongs in a comedy in the vein of " Anchorman . " And ultimately this uneven mix of the deadly serious ( literally ) with off-the-wall gags does catch up with the film ; it eventually falls back upon its very strong script , which supports it ( a lesser film might be affected more drastically with a weaker screenplay ) , but some scenes probably should have been toned down a bit to comply with the subtler and more realistic scenes . For what it's worth , the wacky scenes are extremely hilarious , but they seem to contradict other portions of the material . Jason is a better director than his father , though , and shows a lot of potential here : I'd say the direction is almost deserving of a more serious film . I'd love to see what he could do with a drama in the future . The movie also boasts an excellent lead performance by Aaron Eckhart , who oozes with sleaze , greed , corruption and a hidden sense of morals . He knows what he is doing is wrong , but he's not a stereotypical Hollywood motion picture " good guy " ? even the closing of the picture , without spoiling it , isn't the moralistic cop-out I had expected ; the movie isn't a black-and-white painting of the smoking controversy ; it doesn't take sides on either side of the debate . This is really being marketed incorrectly as the next " 40-Year-Old Virgin " right now , but the film ? for the most part , anyway ? really isn't as hilarious as it is thought-provoking and engaging . Apart from a few aforementioned moments of utter absurdity , the majority of the film's duration involves some pretty serious topics , and it handles them well . It's not a bust-your-gut-funny movie , and it's perhaps not as strong as some reviews would lead you to believe , but it's one of the better satires in recent memory and certainly one of the more effective since Wag the Dog .
Whimsical children's tale , good animation and storytelling	It's been a little while since I had seen " The Swan Princess , " but I could distinctly recall many scenes from it . I'd always enjoyed it before , so I decided to watch it again - for the most part , it still holds up . Of course , it's a children's tale , so some slack must be given ; it's not going to be as well-rounded ( entertainment-wise ) as a movie like " Toy Story , " but it does contain its fair share of adult-oriented jokes along with silly physical humor that will amuse children . The story is pretty basic - a lovely princess is destined to marry a prince , but an evil sorcerer ( voiced by the diabolical Jack Palance ) has other plans and kills the princess ' father , locks the daughter away and casts a spell on her so that she turns into a swan at night . It's predictable , but it's got a great vocal cast , and the animation is pretty good . Give it a shot . Avoid the unnecessary cash-in sequel .
One of the funniest Christmas films of all time . An annual treat !	Christmas movies are fun . I like Christmas movies because they're generally nice , lightweight , enjoyable pieces of fluff with important moralistic messages ( " It's a Wonderful Life , " " Scrooge " ) or sometimes they're just fun to watch ( " Gremlins , " " Home Alone " ) . " Scrooged " isn't lightweight , cheery , or happy . It's dark , brooding , sort of evil , and it's the only Christmas movie I can think of that seems as if Tim Burton directed it . Am I insulting the film ? Heavens , no . I love it . In fact , I'm complimenting it . Instead of repeating old traditions , it's trying something new , and the secret to the film is the way it actually pulls it all off . The plot : Frank Cross is the youngest television station president in recorded history because he knows the people . At least he thinks he does . In reality , he's just a greedy tycoon who gives people bath towels for Christmas - - including his own brother . Cross is a modern day Scrooge , and the movie " Scrooged " is a modern reworking of the classic Charles Dickens story . Frank Cross is played by Bill Murray absolutely perfectly . He's cynical , dry , and sarcastic , and doesn't give a darn about anyone else other than himself . So the night before Christmas Eve , Frank is visited by an old business partner - - who has been dead for seven years . ( " I wouldn't have guessed more than three , tops , " says Frank in his usual sarcastic tone . ) His old associate warns Frank to change his ways or he'll end up like himself - - angry , bitter . . . and dead . Frank doesn't pay any attention to his " hallucination , " and continues being his usual self during the festive Christmas holiday - - by ripping off old ladies ' cabs and firing Elliot ( Bobcat Goldthwait ) on Christmas Eve . ( Elliot is sort of today's version of Bob Cratchitt . ) Frank is putting on a Christmas Eve production of Charles Dickens ' immortal classic " Scrooge " ( what happened to " A Christmas Carol , " I wonder ? ) , and in the film's funniest scene , introduces his ad for the program . ( It later scares an old woman to death and Frank takes it as a wonderful sign - - controversy is as good as advertising ! ) The three ghosts do indeed come and haunt Frank . Except Frank is more cynical than Ebenezer Scrooge ever was , and convincing him that Christmas is a season of giving will be hard . ( Frank : " I get it , you're here to show me my past and I'm supposed to get all dully eyed and mushy . Well forget it pal , you got the wrong guy . " ) Frank is revisited by an old flame ( Karen Allen ) and his heart starts to beat once again after years of silence . Frank slowly but surely starts to learn to appreciate Christmas once again , following all of Scrooge's examples . His intern's son , who witnessed his father's murder and hasn't spoken since , is a sort of Tiny Tim , and " Scrooged " does indeed follow all of the elements of Charles Dickens ' classic . Only it updates the tale , throws in a bunch of cameos , and great acting on Murray's behalf . Frank revisits scenes from his childhood and adulthood first hand with the wacky ghosts as companions . They can't see or hear Frank - - his cab driver ghost tells him that he's in the middle of a rerun . Frank remembers how his father brought him meat for Christmas , how he broke up with his girlfriend over a matter of greed vs . happiness , and how his life was a complete waste . ( Ghost : " Let's face it , Frank , garden slugs got more out of life than you . " Frank : " Yeah ? Name one ! " ) It was a matter of time before " A Christmas Carol , " or " Scrooge , " got a modernized treatment . And it comes out fresh and ingenious , dark and hilarious . The movie owes its entire success to the casting of Bill Murray , whose cynical ways shone through in such early films as " Stripes " and " Ghostbusters , " and here compliment the film the way no other actor's talent could . Take , for example , the way he can remain unmoved but , at the same time , flippant and sarcastic , towards his boss when he tells Frank that cats and dogs are starting to watch television , and that he thinks Frank should target some advertising at the canine and feline demographic . Frank just stares at his boss as if he's crazy and whispers , " Call the cops . " The movie was directed by Richard Donner ( " Lethal Weapon " ) , and is one of the films I watch as an annual tradition around Christmas . It's dark and often quite disturbing , and its eerie music adds to the mix . But it helps the film because it makes us see through Frank's eyes . And the outcome is , quite frankly , an instant Christmas classic . This is a film I'll be watching for years , and so far , it's only been getting better every time .
The Tramp	The more Adam Sandler movies I watch , the more I dislike the guy . Admittedly , he never bugged me up until projects such as " The Waterboy , " which seem to have scarred his earlier vehicles - - including " Big Daddy , " a movie about a slacker who adopts a kid in order to prove his responsibility to his girlfriend . Predictable mayhem ensues . Sonny Koufax ( Sandler ) is a loser sharing an apartment in New York City with Kevin ( Jon Stewart from Comedy Central's " The Today Show ) , who has to visit China and is leaving the place under the care of Sonny for the week . But the first day of his departure , a small five-year-old kid named Julian ( Cole and Dylan Sprouse ) arrives at the front door with a note , a la Paddington Bear . Kevin appears to be the boy's father , so Sonny hatches a great plan : He'll take care of the boy until Kevin returns , and prove to his girlfriend that he is responsible by passing the kid off as his son . Sonny is a graduate from law school , which is extremely hard to believe , considering how dumb he is . When Julian wets the bed , Sonny grabs some newspaper and lays it down over the sheets . " There ' ya go , dry sheets , " he says , before leaving the room and retreating to his bedroom . The image of a caring father-figure that Chaplin invented in " The Tramp " is rather modernized here . I think Chaplin is probably rolling about in his grave . I'm not going to bash " Big Daddy " for teaching bad morals . After all , there's a reason it's PG-13 , and any parent who lets their kids see this are just about as responsible as Sonny . Too many critics criticize films for inappropriate subject matter , despite their adult ratings . Example ? There's a scene where Sonny is trying to " weed out " the bad kids at school - - despite the fact that they're mere kindergarteners . Sonny sits on a playhouse , circled by little kids , and says , " You know what else is good ? Smoking dope ! " It's a very funny scene to watch in context with the movie , but it could come off different to younger childrne . Don't let your kids see this movie . There is a repetitive cameo in " Big Daddy " by Steve Buscemi as a wandering homeless man . Buscemi often pops up in Sandler's films , which is surprising , since they're in a completely different range of acting . I did notice , however , that two films Buscemi has appeared in support McDonald's - - there's a long gag about the morning breakfast cut-off in this movie , and John Travolta subtly bashed Burger King in " Pulp Fiction , " which also co-starred Buscemi . Personally , I think Burger King is much better . But let's not get sidetracked . . . The movie relies on Adam Sandler for its hits and misses . The problem is that he's not as enthusastic here as he was in " Happy Gilmore . " It's one of Sandler's best comedies , which is sort of sad . I wish he'd make more films like " Punch-Drunk Love . " He does have a bit of potential , and he was OK on " Saturday Night Live , " but he's wasting his career by making these repetitive films that recycle the same characters and situations , with little twists at all . Does the movie have laughs ? Sure . But they're strongly overpowered by the misfires . " Big Daddy " is a movie to approach with caution , even as light entertainment . stars . - John Ulmer
Much better than I expected - but the performances are what make it worthwhile	Walter Koontz ( Robert De Niro ) is a retired conservative cop living in a Hell's Kitchen slum across from a noisy drag queen named Rusty ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) . When he suffers a stroke while trying to rescue a prostitute from being murdered in an apartment above his , Walt is recommended to begin taking singing lessons to restore movement on the right side of his face ( which has become paralyzed ) . Due to the fact that he has little money and can't leave his apartment complex , Walt begins to take lessons from Rusty - who lives in a flamboyantly decorated area ( " Welcome to fairyland ! " ) and is often visited by drag queen friends . This sounds like a lame buddy-movie formula - and it's not great - but it was better than I expected , especially coming from one of the cinema's worst living directors , Joel Schumacher . But even Schumacher has made some genuinely good films ( " Phone Booth " and " Falling Down " are his best ) - - and this is one of them . It's not all that good , but it's slightly above-average and is really worth seeing for its amazing performances . De Niro is good ( in a role similar to that in " Awakenings " ) but it's Hoffman - pre - " Capote " Oscar - who totally steals the show as Rusty , portraying him ( or is it " her " ? ) as a deep and troubled human being . The little scenes such as the one where Rusty mentions his family and his conservative father are what add more to the character . This is a bit too gritty and dark - - it's not the light-hearted buddy comedy that the ads make it out to be ( the trailer is totally misleading ) - - but I found it engaging and well-acted .
Very likable Hitchcockian thriller from the director of " Psycho II " . . .	It's amazing how many pleasant treats you'll find on TV Friday nights at one o'clock in the morning . Take " Roadgames " ( or " Road Games " ) for example : The Hitchcockian story of a trucker delivering meat across Australia who becomes entangled in a possible mystery involving an unapprehensible serial killer who may or may not have murdered a helpless hitchhiker traveling the roads he's driving on . Often referred to as " Rear Window " on the road , self-proclaimed Hitchcock enthusiast Richard Franklin has directed a quaint , low-budget thriller with a likable ( although quite unusual ) lead actor in the role of Frustrated Hero . Pat Quid ( Stacy Keach - - who is indeed a man ) is driving across Australia in a meat truck when he thinks he's noticed a strange happening - - a man in a van seems to be burying a bag in the middle of a desert in Australia , and when he is noticed he climbs back into his blue van and speeds away into the distance . Pat puts this event into the back of his mind when he decides against regulations to pick up a wandering hitchhiker named Pam Rushworth ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) , who has run away from home in an effort to escape her famous father's life . The two bond together on the road and have some fun playing various games - - until she is kidnapped by the same strange man in a van . At first , Pat thinks he's just being paranoid - - he even starts to think that Pam left him for the man . But then he realizes that Pam has indeed been kidnapped , and he suspects that the strange man in the van might be a notorious serial killer who has been killing young women and scattering their body parts miles apart from each other . After the police offer no help , Pat takes matters into his own hands and sets off on a quest to bring back Pam to safety and apprehend the killer before he can strike again . Some twists and turns ensue , although nothing very surprising . If this were a mainstream horror film with an overblown budget and big-name actors , I'd probably give " Roadgames " a bad rating . But this is the type of pleasant , likable low-budget thriller that is easy to watch and knows it's nothing more than a shadow of greater film noir mysteries / thrillers like " Rear Window " or " The Third Man " - - the type of film that thrusts its hero on a one-man venture into the heart of darkness in order to find out the truth . Stacy Keach is strikingly likable as the lonely trucker who talks to his own pet dingo as he drives along , contemplating all types of conspiracy theories about serial killers and mysteries . What could definitely become tiring - - listening to a man talk to his dingo for the majority of a movie , that is - - actually becomes quite fun . Keach is funny , nice , and just . . . likable ! Too bad his career was put on hold years later after he got arrested for smuggling cocaine . . . The director , Richard Franklin , is a huge Hitchcock fan - - and it shows . This film is like a sort of remake of " Rear Window " and other such mystery-thrillers . It's loads of fun and an easy watch . ( Trivia note : Franklin directed " Psycho II , " the sequel to Hitchcock's 1960 classic original . ) I can definitely say that this film is most like " Breakdown , " the Jonathan Mostow movie starring Kurt Russell as a man who loses his wife to a trucker and tries to get her back , even though there seems to be no evidence of her disappearance . But unlike the great " Breakdown , " this film doesn't wither away in the second half and turn into a disappointing movie - - it remains strong throughout , and yes , it has plenty of nods towards Hitchcock . ( Check out the magazines Curtis starts sorting through - - there he is ! ) stars . - John Ulmer
An entertaining movie with a sloppy and insulting conclusion	This was Al Pacino's first box office success of the 1980s . In 1983 , " Scarface " came out and didn't do much business - the critics took a beating on it and Pacino's career suffered quite a deal throughout the decade - " Cruising , " " Revolution , " and " Author ! Author ! " didn't help much , either . " Sea of Love " transformed everything for him . It was a success financially and ( somewhat ) critically , and it helped him get more roles in the ' 90s . Looking back now , in 2005 , it still holds up as entertainment , and sleazy entertainment at that , but the ending is too routine , insulting and oh-so-typical of the genre ; it's the " trick ' em at the end " leg-puller where the murderer is revealed to be the most stupid of characters and you can't believe the film's ended on such a low note . The rest of it is actually pretty good . Pacino delivers an unusual performance as a socially and sexually awkward cop who meets a murder suspect ( Ellen Barkin ) and falls for her , only to realize she may be targeting him next . " Basic Instinct " got away with copying a lot of this a couple years later , but I prefer " Sea of Love . " It's erotic and sleazy and entertaining without resorting to cheap tactics like full-frontal nudity . Then again you do get to see Ellen Barkin naked and that's never a bad thing . The movie focuses on its characters , and I liked that . I just wish the ending would have been up to par with the rest of the production . It's an entertaining movie , but don't expect anything of substance .
A bit underrated , but still not completely memorable . . .	¡Three Amigos ! " ¡Three Amigos ! " is a decent comedy ruined by some hit-and-misses and boring areas of the film . It's underrated a bit , but not by much . Steve Martin , Martin Short and Chevy Chase star as film stars in the depression-era ; their show is about three Amigos that fight bad guys down in Mexico . Eventually , due to low ratings of some sort , their show is canceled and they are all thrown out of Hollywood . But then , at the low-point of their life and career , they get an offer from a Mexican woman . She has seen their show and , thinking the show and the three men are genuine , wants them to come to Mexico to help rid her town of bad guys that come through every day to steal food , money , etc . . . Martin and co . think the woman is interested in making a television show , so they eagerly follow her down to Mexico to shoot the film . When they find , upon arrival , that it is NOT a film , but rather all very real . Now the gun-toting fakes will have to learn how to really aim a gun if they wish to succeed . " ¡Three Amigos ! " has some pretty weak gags , and the film becomes tiresome after a while , especially some scenes around the town in Mexico . But the scenes like the one where Martin and co . sing " My Little Buttercup " in the local bar in town is unmissable . Steve Martin and Martin Short do well . Chase hinders their comedic timing a bit , but not by much . Overall they are a pretty good comic trio . I've always been a fan of Martin and Short , and . . . well . . . I liked Chase in " Vacation , " so I think they really make this movie . It would be no better than the dirt on my boots if not for the comedians in this film . Because of them - - especially if you're fans of the comedians - - this film is worth viewing . It's not particularly great , in fact , it's pretty average material , but Martin and co . make it worth seeing at least once . Definitely worth catching on TV , but don't go out of your way to see it . stars - John Ulmer
Crappy plot , hokey dialogue ; great special effects ( which is really all I expected ) . . .	" The Day After Tomorrow " has been promoted as a potentially true story . Filmmaker Roland Emmerich has tried to attract huge box office returns by claiming that scientists have predicted something similar to the events depicted in this film really could happen . I very much doubt it . The film's theory is rather thin , which may explain why it is simultaneously confusing . A scientist ( played by Dennis Quaid ) foresees a global disaster involving polar ice caps . His theory is that the earth's natural cycle of heat will be disrupted , resulting in the " next ice age . " Of course , as New York City and Los Angeles are destroyed , and the United Kingdom is frozen solid , it is considered that mankind is being destroyed . Really ? What about areas south of the US , such as Africa , Australia , and New Zealand ? Emmerich doesn't deal with any other countries than the US and UK , which will serve as fuel for those who claim the United States is ignorant when it comes to other countries . But regardless , we are supposed to believe that the next ice age is occurring . Temperatures drop at rapid paces . Tidal waves roar across cities , destroying everything and everyone in their path . Tornadoes demolish large buildings and blow debris into cars and humans as they grow larger . While this happens , Sam ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) is trapped in Manhattan's public library . His father ( Quaid ) tells him to stay put , and that he'll come get him . There are some fine action sequences prior to the rescue , such as when Sam finds himself trapped in a large vessel with a pack of wolves that have escaped from a zoo ( don't ask ) . Great special effects and tense sequences are ultimately what make silly scenes like this so fun . Emmerich is notorious for his big-budget disaster flicks such as the colossal " Independence Day " and equally gargantuan " Godzilla . " Neither of those two movies worked for me . " Independence Day " was rather stupid and " Godzilla " was both stupid and inept ; a totally joyless B-monster movie homage complete with a multi-million dollar budget and famous stars . If " Godzilla " was an homage to those cheesy cult monster flicks , then " The Day After Tomorrow " is Emmerich's ode to the disaster flicks of the 1950s and ' 60s , when the Cold War had just begun to settle , and when novels such as " Alas , Babylon " depicted vivid images of a post-apocalyptic wasteland . Indeed , " Day " contains all the fundamental elements of a B-movie , but happens to boast one of the largest budgets in cinema history as a counter to this summary . Emmerich's best film , so far , has been the one in which he abandoned disastrous activities for a touching story in " The Patriot , " which starred Mel Gibson , and which I highly recommend despite its historical inaccuracies . However , " The Day After Tomorrow " also comes with a recommendation ( albeit a half-hearted one ) because it has one vital ingredient that Emmerich's other disaster movies sorely lacked : A sense of fun and bouncy spirit . Yes , " The Day After Tomorrow , " while admittedly stupid , is also a very fun movie with some of - - if not the - - best CGI sequences I have ever seen . Many people might argue that the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy boasted superior visual effects , but I beg to differ . Here , we see New York City demolished before our very eyes . Tidal waves pour across Manhattan - - most of them seemed so real that even my very cynical perception failed to trace them . " Day " represents a breakthrough in computer generated images - - I had a hard time spotting quite a number of them in this film . I am usually rather anti-CGI . I consider it to be a generally sloppy way of film-making for directors too lazy to put effort into making more realistic stunt sequences for their films . But here , one of the only reasons I can recommend the movie in the first place is because of its CGI . The New York City sequence ( roughly ten minutes long ) is worth the admission price alone . The acting is fairly impressive . Quaid does his best with the dialogue he is given . Gyllenhaal ( who frequently demanded dialogue re-writes on the set of the film ) makes his character likable and a relatable hero . The movie is not great by any means but the performances are far better than those in " Independence Day . " On the downside , Emmerich's film is so blatantly liberal that it almost ruins some of the fun . The President of the United States bears an uncanny resemblance to Al Gore . He is depicted as the " good guy . " When he dies , the Vice President takes over . He is the " bad guy " who ignores the warnings of scientists and is responsible for the deaths of millions . Towards the end of the film ( without ruining all of it ) he apologizes to America for being ignorant and declares that we have been stealing from Mother Earth too long , and should have been more careful with our resources , yadda yadda . I feel like I've seen this movie before . And I feel like I've seen this same sort of speech before . Could it be from " Independence Day " ? Maybe . Either way , " The Day After Tomorrow " has some of the best special effects I've ever seen . And that is really all I expected from this movie , and I was surprised to find a fair amount of humor , fun , and tense scenes that I really didn't expect at all . I think Emmerich is finally learning how to make a good disaster movie - - hopefully his next will be as good as this .
Funnier than I expected	I'm not a fan of Chris Rock in general - I never really thought he was that special ; on " Saturday Night Live " he annoyed me and his films so far have been pretty pathetic . His racist remarks around last year's Oscar ceremony really p ! ssed me off , too - more so than anything else he had done or said in the past . So I approached this live comedy performance with skepticism . As bad as he may be in films , one of my friends told me he's " great at standup " - so I gave it a shot late last night at three o'clock in the morning on Comedy Central's uncut & unedited " Vault " program . I was surprised because it was actually pretty funny . It's not brilliant , and certainly not on the same level as Richard Pryor , but it's promising - and shows that Rock is FAR more suited for standup than , say , acting or sketch shows . If you aren't familiar with Rock's work , check this out . If you hate Rock and haven't seen this , check it out , too . You may be pleasantly surprised . Be warned , however , that the language is very strong .
Better than I thought it would be	I approached this expecting an explicit , controversial film for controversy's sake - - something disturbing and , let's face it , fabricated . I was surprised to find that yes , its aim is to make parents lock their children in their bedrooms for the next fifty years but also to truthfully examine modern-day childhood the way it really is . I knew kids like this , who talked like this , who listened to the Beastie Boys and who bragged about anything sexual they could think of . This movie follows the adventures and sexual pursuits of Telly , an AIDS-infected young teen who goes around taking advantages of virgins . We're led to believe Telly isn't aware of his disease but I think perhaps he does and gets off on possibly spreading it to others . One of his ex-girlfriends ( Chloe Sevigny ) becomes infected and spends the entire movie looking for Telly to warn him before he has sex with a young virgin . The end of the movie is pretty tragic and quite sad really . Yes , it is wrapped a bit too nicely in the sense that all this stuff happens to one group of kids within a period of a day or so , but by compacting many events into one scenario director Larry Clark makes quite a compelling little film / semi-documentary . One thing I should also mention is the dialogue , which I found to be the most realistic in any kid-starring film I've ever seen . He didn't just choose talented actors , he got the expressions , mannerisms and jargon perfected - - as a result it does come across as a very authentic , genuine film and even if you hate it , there's no denying it's pretty sickening . Whether you find that a good or bad thing is entirely up to you .
Maybe you have to be a movie buff to " get it " ?	To some people , movies are more than a passion . They are a way of life . For me , movies are not only one of my favorite hobbies , but I feel that all films express a certain reflection of the individual watching them . They say that you can tell a lot from a person by the way they act , talk , walk . I believe you can also tell a lot about a person from the sort of movies they like . And I think that for Chip Douglas ( Jim Carrey ) , movies and television are more than disposable entertainment . They are his entire life . He is consumed by film to such an extent that he creates multiple personas based on TV personalities . Many critics bashed Carrey's performance for being too sadistic . I think it's perfect because it's daring and hugely different than his other movies , and accurately reflects the mindset of a troubled individual who has grown up on his TV , rather than actually experiencing true life . Not many movies are like " The Cable Guy , " and most of them don't have the guts to make a statement so bold and striking . In " The Cable Guy " Carrey is the title character , his real name supposedly Chip Douglas , but towards the end we're not really sure what's true and false anymore . Chip works for a cable company and offers to hook up new apartment tenant Steven ( Matthew Broderick ) up with illegal cable . All Douglas asks for in return is a friendship , which Steven reluctantly agrees to . But what he doesn't realize is that Chip is an obsessive monster - - bred on films as a child and unable to separate celluloid from reality , he pursues a " Fatal Attraction " route and begins to stalk Steven . This is one of those movies , like " What About Bob ? " , where the hero is apparently the only one who realizes how crazy the " bad guy " is . Richard Dreyfuss went nuts trying to convince his family of Bill Murray's insanity in " Bob . " In " The Cable Guy , " Matthew Broderick has a tough time trying to expose Chip's sadistic side . I am not Carrey's biggest fan . But I have to admit that over time the comedian has grown on me . And when I see him in " Dumb and Dumber " I can't picture anyone else taking on the role . Here he is in another role where I can see no one else portraying his character , and yet he still hasn't convinced me that he's a great talent . Strange . I think Carrey's comedy is distinct and the reason his films have become more well-received over the years is because he has invented a certain area of modern-day comedy and thrived in that cubby hole for quite some time . I believe that humor is not existent ; it is invented . Different forms of humor come and go . Right now , Adam Sandler and Jim Carrey are two of the highest-paid comedians the world , and yet in fifty years , where will they be ? Comedy is constantly changing . Humor is invented and re-invented to the point that what was once funny no longer is . That is why so many comedies from various eras of American history seem so outdated by today's standards . We are living in a world of Jim Carreys , Adam Sandlers , and Mike Myers . Although they still receive jobs , Steve Martin , Eddie Murphy , Bill Murray , and especially Dan Aykroyd - - some of the most popular comedians of the ' 80s - - have found themselves all stuck in ruts , filming kiddie movies for Disney and - - some of them ( especially Murray and Aykroyd ) - - departing comedy to pursue more serious careers in an area of film that will never become outdated : drama ( for Murray , it is " Lost in Translation " ; Aykroyd is less lucky with projects such as " Pearl Harbor , " which might as well be classified as comedy ) . The movie was directed by Ben Stiller , who carefully balances the neurotic against the sweet . The movie has its fair share of cameos , and in a great sequence Owen Wilson stars as a confident jerk who takes out Steven's girlfriend on a date . The Cable Guy finds out and , thinking he's doing Steven a favor , assaults Wilson in the bathroom of a fancy restaurant . Perhaps the reason so many critics disliked " The Cable Guy " when it was released in 1996 was because they found themselves relating to Carrey's character . Maybe not . All I know is that it is one of the most daring and surprising comedies of the ' 90s - - not especially great but very unique and entertaining . I relate to its main character because we both love movies . My obsession is much calmer than Chip's . But the film does have a good eye for spotting good areas of satire . Yes , it's often rather dark and absurd . But isn't that the point ? .
Good and entertaining but heavily flawed - Mann's direction is the highlight	" I'm just Collateral . " Max ( Jamie Foxx ) has had a long run as a taxi cab driver in the less savory areas of Los Angeles for longer than he ever wanted or imagined . Almost oblivious to the amount of time he has dedicated to his job , Max has reached a state of denial ? every passenger who enters his cab seems to receive a lecture on how it's " just part-time " , serving as a means of cash until he is able to pursue his long-time dream job : Opening a limo service . Max's dreams come to a startling close on the fateful night that Vincent ( Tom Cruise ) , a cool , calculating gray-haired assassin , enters his cab . Vincent is in town to kill five people , all in one night . Max is his personal driver . For $600 , and held at gunpoint , Max is forced to carry Vincent from one destination to the next . " Collateral " is a terribly unrealistic motion picture ? but it is not terrible . In fact , it's quite good . Despite its flaws ( and it has its fair share ) it manages to maintain a hard edge and hold the audience's interest in the face of utter absurdity . Vincent , like the Rutger Hauer character from " The Hitcher , " seems to be some unattainable wise guy who knows everything that is going to happen , is happening , and has happened . The movie stretches its limits of believability when Vincent visits Max's ill mother in hospital . Also , when Vincent takes the time to wander into a jazz club and talk to his victim for a half hour before killing him ? in front of Max . It's just a bit too silly for such an otherwise realistic picture , and this also leads one to question Max's motives ? through all of this all he does is whine and try to run away a few times , but he never at any point attempts to truly stop Vincent - - until he finds out that the last victim happens to be the woman Max is falling in love with . ( What a coincidence ! ) So , either Max is incredibly stupid or he's incredibly selfish and uncaring . I hope it's the former . Also , considering the fact that Vincent is a professional veteran hit-man , he doesn't seem too worried about leaving fingerprints , witnesses or other evidential materials behind . He's sloppy and careless . He enters a nightclub armed with a handgun and shoots a handful of men in a crowd of at least a hundred . One must wonder why , in eight years , Vincent has not been identified by police . There are video cameras that capture his presence , but we are led to believe no one has any idea who he is . Despite the fact that we are also led to believe that he's killed hundreds , if not thousands of people in his eight years as an assassin . Then there's the plot , which is ridiculous . I highly doubt a hit-man would use a taxi cab driver as Vincent does ? even as collateral . It's beyond belief , and I am willing to give scenes in " Commando " benefit of the doubt . Then again I do think the film isn't supposed to be taken at face value . It is a bit of a moralistic tale told with metaphors and philosophical monologues . " One day you wake up and it's gone , " Vincent states in regards to life . " Collateral " is less about reality and more about appreciating life . In the end neither of the lead actors really manage to light up the screen . Cruise is cool and brutal but little else . His motivations are not clear and he comes across as being quite stupid rather than clever . Foxx is good but as I said above , his character's motivations are a bit dubious . He's a bit too willing to drive around being friends and talking to a hit-man all night . I find fault in the script ? it's a nice idea but absurdly childish in execution . " Collateral " does not take place in an adult world ? it takes place in a world where people perform acts in order to help along the script . The real showcase of this film is Michael Mann , who once again proves that he can take fairly obvious ideas and really make them exciting and even seem unique to a certain extent ( also see the superior " Heat " from 1995 ) . He captures the essence of a dark , grainy LA night perfectly with use of digital cameras and rear projections . Also , he proves here that he's capable of directing intense action ? the climax of the movie is stupid and clichéd and runs itself into a wall ( it's way too ambiguous for its own good as a thriller ) but Mann handles it like an epic and all in all the audience walks away from " Collateral " thinking it's a lot better than it probably is . I liked this movie a lot , I purchased the DVD and I think multiple viewings will only improve it , but it is by no means Mann's best film and in comparison to " Heat " it seems quite poor . My review seems to be a heavy criticism ? I am merely pointing out the things I disliked . Considering it runs two hours long , and these are my only major complaints , I think it's safe to say that " Collateral " has more plusses than minuses .
Not a flawless epic , and not Martin Scorsese's best movie , but a very good one .	Howard Hughes was the notorious playboy of the 1930s and ' 40s who wooed every Hollywood starlet in sight and was responsible for delivering aircraft to the United States government at the cost of $56 million . He ran well over-budget and never delivered any planes , although his monstrosity " The Hercules " - - at the time , the largest aircraft in the world - - was eventually built and did , in fact , fly . " The Aviator " chronicles Hughes ' life - - from his childhood to the point at which he first became obsessive about germs , his hands and so on and so forth . Hughes became increasingly eccentric and insane as time went on and by the end of the film I think Scorsese does something rather brilliant in terms of narrative effect - - I won't give it away but suffice to say it's a nice little conclusion to the movie . The movie itself is quite good but tries a bit too hard . The acting is top-notch and DiCaprio holds his own as Howard Hughes , proving once again he's more than just a pretty face . Cate Blanchett perfectly imitates Kate Hepburn and Kate Beckinsale is a great Ava Gardner . However I feel some material could have been cut . Some scenes really held my interest and I momentarily was lost in the film - - then there were sequences throughout which I felt bored and wished it would move on . Also , I found the subtitles ( posted on the screen to introduce new characters , e . g . JOHN SMITH - FRIEND OF HOWARD HUGHES ) a rather dubious element - - I expected better from Scorsese . . . introducing new characters with subtitles seems sloppy and far too easy for such a master filmmaker . I also felt " The Aviator " lacked Scorsese's overall typically energetic visuals , opting more for a bloated epic style - - one gets the feeling Scorsese was in it for the Oscar this year and was out to prove to the Academy that he could make a typical epic . There are a few tracking shots but other than that , it really didn't feel like " A Martin Scorsese Picture . " On the plus side I found the cinematography quite nice , the musical score entirely fitting , the cameos amusing ( Alec Baldwin , Willem Dafoe and Jude Law amongst others ) , and most of the dialogue believable . " The Aviator " is not Martin Scorsese's best film , nor would I call it the best film of 2004 . It is not flawless , but it does manage to entertain for the most part and is a solid insight into the life of Hughes . If I had one complaint , I'd say about thirty minutes altogether could have been edited out and replaced with more interesting material ( or none at all ) , but as it stands , " The Aviator " is a very good movie .
the book by Michael Crichton is so much better , but the movie's a fun ride too !	The book sphere , by Michael Crichton , is excellent . The movie on the other hand , falls short . The film of course , doesn't follow the book exactly , like all book-to-movies , however , it does follow pretty closely , considering . Dustin Hoffman fits into PERFECT character . He plays his character just like the book plays him . Quiet . Not very excitable . Samuel L . Jackson , was also good . However , my casting flaw would be Sharon Stone . She's horrible , not playing her character at all well . However , for some reason people don't like this movie , even despite Sharon Stone and some other flaws . I watched this before the book , so I don't like it because I read the book . I like this film before I read the book . So , I don't get why people don't like SPHERE . I mean , sure it's not great , but it's entertaining enough on a friday / saturday night to watch along with some popcorn . Give this film a break . Rent it . . . . . I'm sure you won't be too dissapointed .
Fun if outdated	" Bullitt " is , of course , most famous for its revolutionary car chase and it still packs a punch . Unfortunately , the film itself is somewhat less of a thrill - it's quite outdated and although Steve McQueen's performance is legendary and perhaps even iconic , many of the actors are not very impressive and the plot isn't anything special . That said , it is a good movie and will always be remembered for its car chase more so than other elements . It isn't a great movie nor is it a classic but it is fun and worth viewing and Robert Duvall's brief performance is a must-see for any film buff .
An entertaining modern-update of a classic fairy tale	" Pretty Woman " was the film that made Julia Roberts a star and a major player in Hollywood ( for a while she held the record for being the highest-paid actress in Hollywood ) . " Pretty Woman " is one of her better films . She plays a prostitute who's " employed " by a rich playboy ( Richard Gere ) to pose as her girlfriend for a little while . He tries to culture her and instill good taste , manners and general class ; meanwhile others raise a suspicious eyebrow when she embarrasses herself in public , clearly not belonging in the upper-class group . The film follows a standard fairy-tale-style formula of an abused girl falling in love and being rescued from her old lifestyle . The movie spins this into a modern update with more relevant themes - mainly prostitution . Ironically this is one of Roberts ' first movies and the only one in which she has ever revealed any nudity . Sometimes actors deliver their finest performances before they develop egos and clauses in their contracts . She dares to go out on a limb here more so than she usually does - and the movie succeeds . The direction is suitable , the soundtrack and stylings of the film are oh-so-eighties . . . overall it's just an entertaining , well-done romantic comedy that doesn't try to be anything it isn't . Not a classic , but hardly bad , either .
A compelling film carried by its lead actor	" The Assassination of Richard Nixon " tells the alleged " mad story of a true man " who attempted to hijack an airplane and crash it into the White House to kill the United States president . From reading the plot description - especially post - - it sounds like the main character here would be a detestable one , but it is a testament to the skills of Sean Penn that he manages to make the character empathetic and realistic . It's also a testament to the strength of the filmmakers that they don't resort to cheap sentimentality to " force " the audience into sympathizing with Bicke . Sam Bicke ( Penn ) is a 44-year-old furniture salesman living a life as a " slave " to the corporate world . He wants to open his own business , but doesn't get a loan because his partner is black . His wife ( Naomi Watts ) is in the process of divorcing him and he is slowly losing contact with his three children . He detests his boss , he has no money , and he wants to be his own man . " Slavery never ended , " he claims . " They just gave it a new name : employee . " Bicke narrates his story in a series of letters to composer Leonard Bernstein , referring to him as " Mr . Bernstein " and " Maestro . " Bernstein's own recordings of Beethoven's 4th and 5th piano concertos ( aka " Emperor " ) make up the soundtrack of the film , which is eerie , tranquil and unsettling depending upon the scenes it underscores - it works really well . This is ultimately a film in the tradition of " Taxi Driver " and " The King of Comedy " that is an insight into the mind of an everyman who succumbs to the pressure of every day life and finally loses his mind . The movie manages to stand on its own as a picture without purposely drawing parallels to these other films , and the fact that Penn's character is named Bicke isn't a reference to Taxi Driver - after all , this is based on a true story . The real man's name was spelled " Byke , " and even if some creative liberties were taken here , it's a solid film that is well-made and an effective portrayal of a man on the brink of madness .
Better than I expected , even if the ending leaves a bit to be desired	Dean Corso ( Johnny Depp ) is a mercenary book-hunter , employed by a mysterious wealthy man named Balkun ( Frank Langella ) to trace the sources of a controversial , rare manuscript which contains clues leading towards the " Ninth Gate " - the place at which the Devil is resurrected , or something to such an extent . ( The film is kind of shady when it comes to what , exactly , the Ninth Gate really is . ) Corso is given the manuscript and told to find out of it's genuine - he begins his journey and immediately finds himself entwined in a supernatural force . His friends are murdered , a strange woman tries to seduce him and steal the book for her own purposes , and then he finds another replica of the book - identical , save for varying drawings inside the pages . The drawings and their differences , when assorted correctly , are believed to open the Ninth Gate . Corso knows he's gotten into something deep and wants to stop - but he can't find his mysterious employer and he is constantly being pursued by a demon woman ( Emmanuelle Seigner ) . Roman Polanski is a great director but when " The Ninth Gate " came out in 1999 it seemed to die out rather quick . I had heard bad things about the film and never got around to seeing it until just last night . Although it's not a great supernatural thriller like " Rosemary's Baby , " it is very entertaining and ambiguous enough to merit repeat viewings . There's a lot of stuff I didn't understand , or things I knew I didn't pick up on , that I'm sure would enhance further viewings . However I can see where the bad reviews come from - many audiences were probably not willing to look deep enough into the film and just wanted cheap horror scares . This movie is not what the ads make it out to be . It's very atmospheric , subtle and creepy - " Jacob's Ladder " meets " The Exorcist . " Depp gives a good performance and the makeup and alterations to his hair really do make him look older . ( He's even got realistic grays . ) After seeing this I thought he would be the perfect choice to play Doctor Gordon in the film remake of the video game " Half-Life " - he looked just like him . The rest of the cast are okay - Seigner is given little to do but look sexy and Lena Olin basically has the same thankless task . Langella is good but he's not on screen very much . It's really Depp who carries the film . " The Ninth Gate " isn't a flawless movie and it isn't something that shocked me . I felt the ending in particular was a bit sloppy and too ambiguous - after reading the message boards I understand more , but there's some weird stuff that happens at the end , and unless you're a rocket scientist who picks up on really obscure stuff , there's a chance you might not really " get it . " Nevertheless it held my attention throughout and it's smarter than a lot of other cheap-shlock horror movies out there .
" Fargo " meets " A Simple Plan . "	" There is a picture of my movie on a milk carton . Have you seen this movie ? It's missing ? I don't know what happened to it ? it's a funny movie . . . a strange movie . But it's literally one of those productions where you go . . . phht , gone . Not even straight to DVD , just gone . " - Robin WilliamsSome movies just don't stand a chance . Orson Welles and Sergio Leone both suffered the frustrations of seeing beloved productions sabotaged in front of their eyes . ( Well , in Welles ' case , " The Magnificent Ambersons " was chopped by fifty minutes while he was out of the country , but I imagine he ultimately would have felt the same as Leone , whose " Once Upon a Time in America " was butchered by Warner Bros . ' editor and mangled into a two-hour mess . ) But occasionally something even worse happens ? the film just totally disappears . Jerry Lewis was passionate about " The Day the Clown Cried " until he saw the final cut ? which was presumably bad enough that it caused him to vow never to let anyone see it . He is in possession of the only negative in existence ? which is tucked away in a vault inside his home . He wouldn't even let his daughter watch it . For all the people involved in the production of the film , it must have felt like a rug had been pulled from under their feet . Work under grueling conditions and persevere for countless hours on a crowded movie set ? only to realize your efforts will never be seen by anyone ? " The Big White " is such a film ? after generating less-than-enthusiastic reviews at a handful of North American and European screenings , its worldwide distributor , Capitol Films , pulled the plug and decided not to release it into theaters at the risk of losing money on advertising . The film died a silent death and disappeared for two years , before finally surfacing on DVD in Canada and Asian markets thanks to Alliance-Atlantis films . It has subsequently gained a small cult following and sales overseas have been better than expected . Comparisons to " Fargo " ( and there have been many ) are valid . Screenwriter Collin Friesen mimics the Coen Brothers ' penchant for wickedly dark humor , and even places his film in a snowy setting in the Yukon ( the film was shot on location as well as in Winnipeg ) . Even the plot is similar : a down-on-his-luck businessman ( played by Robin Williams ) cannot afford to help his troubled wife ( Holly Hunter ) , who seems to suffer from some type of " stress " - induced tourette's syndrome , and decides to cash in on the long absence of his brother ( Woody Harrelson ) by passing him off as legally dead and gaining a $1 , 000 , 000 life insurance payment . Unfortunately , Canadian law demands that a person be missing for more than ten years to be declared legally dead . So when Williams finds a dead body in a dumpster outside his office ( the temporary storage place for two bumbling hit men who never suspect anyone will find the body ) , he passes it off as his brother and collects a check . But a claims inspector ( Giovanni Ribisi ) is suspicious of the sudden appearance of this long-lost brother , and as he begins to investigate realizes what is really going on . Meanwhile , Williams ' wife is kidnapped by the two hit men who want back their dead body , and brother Woody Harrelson returns after reading about his " death " in a paper ? demanding a portion of the paycheck . The finale is violent and unexpected , but the build-up is , at times , deliberately pretentious and decidedly " low-budget " ? and if you've seen any independent film of the last ten years or so , you'll understand what this means . Long , artsy shots of nothingness ; excessively quirky characters ; brutal humor ; vicious sarcasm . But it's a fun movie . It's no " Fargo " but director Mark Mylod keeps it moving along at a steady pace . Williams phones in another twisted performance , but it's Giovanni and his girlfriend in the movie , played by Alison Lohman , who really stand out ? along with Hunter as Williams ' oddball wife . Although her profane outbursts become annoying after a while , for the most part Hunter manages to balance the humor and pathos correctly . For fans of dark humor or independent features this is one worth checking out . It will appeal to some viewers very much , and others will probably loathe it . I found it to be agreeably distracting and thought its saving graces were standout performances by its cast . Apart from this , however , you'd be better off watching " Fargo " again .
A Rusty Sledgehammer .	Alas , here is a film mired by its excesses ; one that comes so curiously close to moments of cinematic brilliance that all but embody the captivating possibilities of film-making , before disappointingly devolving backwards into a predictable , hammy and unbelievable preaching session . Predictable because it follows standards ? and doesn't dare to take enough risks . Hammy because it is stiff , simple and suspiciously empty . Unbelievable because a woman is saved from an exploding car on a jam-packed LA freeway and booked into a hospital and the cop who saved her goes back to work minutes afterward and , apparently , her husband is never even notified of her accident ( and , if he had been , wouldn't he have been concerned with her welfare and perhaps at least left work early to attend to her ? ) . Later that day he is involved in a high-speed chase ; the conclusion of this incident wants to impress us with its irony and depth , but the problem is that there is none . Irony is not irony when it is commanded to be so ; these characters do not realistically bounce off each other as they do in Akira Kurosawa's " Rashomon " or Quentin Tarantino's " Pulp Fiction " ? Paul Haggis ' screenplay is contrived , and every time their paths cross , it isn't so much because they could cross ( as in " Pulp Fiction " ) ? it is because they must cross ways to service the furthering of the plot . It was irony in " Fiction " that the watch given to Butch was his father's saving grace and alternatively the cause of his own near-death . When the cop who sexually probed the woman ends up being her savior in " Crash , " it isn't irony . It's a gimmick . The film wants to challenge us , spiritually , intellectually , and emotionally ? it wants to be on the edge ? and it even thinks it is challenging ? but in all actuality , it's very light , and the Academy's choice of awarding it Best Picture substantiates this . " Crash " plays it safe , too often and frustratingly so . It wants to force us into second-guessing our mentality ? but this only makes it feel heavy-handed and manipulative . It proposes that people today ( especially in areas such as Los Angeles ) are racist ? and extends this theory by proving their apparent racism through actions and dialogue ? but this only works as a tool for awareness , not resolution . It worked with " Uncle Tom's Cabin " ? it opened doors for new racial policies ? but that was at a time when people's eyes needed to be open . It is now the twenty-first century , and bigots and racists know who they are and embrace this fact . We don't need a warning , anymore ? we need a solution , and " Crash " provides no solid answers . But it does have its moments ? few and far between ? that are stunning . ( The rescue sequence , for example . ) Matt Dillon gives a stellar performance , rich with depth and brimming with angst and hatred . Don Cheadle , in a similarly small role ( from a cast of seemingly dozens ) , manages to convey exactly what the film needs in the form of a very human ( and therefore very flawed ) man from a shaky background who is struggling to maintain his image whilst dealing with a turbulent family situation ? all of which comes to a breathtaking finale that doubles back on itself to the very beginning of the film . Yet , for a movie with the gall to proclaim it is firmly rooted in humanity and wants to expose our inherent flaws , and wants to tell us we " don't know " who we really are , it does little to connect with its audience ? even on the most basic level . The movie is simply too silly to take seriously . There are the aforementioned moments that actually start to amount to something , and begin to captivate ? but are unfortunately dragged to a halting stop whenever Haggis tries to nail the point with a sledgehammer . An example of this : Everyone is constantly referring to racism in the script ; one character is a conspiracy nut that thinks windows are put on buses to showcase the blacks " too poor " to afford anything other than public transportation . One character to the next is having an argument dealing with racial issues ? a black car thief claiming all whites are racist ; a white woman ranting about blacks and Latinos ; a light-skinned black woman calling her husband racial epithets ; it's just one after the next , over and over ; Haggis didn't need to do this . We didn't need to have the woman's feelings explained to us , explicitly , after she is unjustly probed by the bigoted police officer . Her face says it all ? it elicits fear , pain , hatred , and ultimately , deep upset over her husband's fragility and lack of manhood ; the actions ( or lack thereof ) fulfilled by a man so utterly crippled by a fear of his own ethnicity that he denies himself the most basic human rights ; peer respect at the cost of humility and debasement . A better director would have stopped here . The face says it all . We don't need the rusty sledgehammer to drive the point in . Sometimes , all we need is the nail , and we can carry out the rest on our own . Note : I give this film because some of its better moments outweigh the bad . I reserve giving it a higher rating due to the reasons above , but I do want to make it clear that some parts of the film were very good , and it's a real pity that Haggis was so inconsistent with the movie and couldn't have extended the better parts into a perfect whole .
Commendable effort	This was nominated in the Best Foreign Picture category of the Oscars for 2001 . I don't think it's great , but it is quite good . A nasty white slave owner forces an African boy into putting a young puppy in a bag . He then kicks the bag , and forces the African boy to open the bag , so that the dog will never trust the slaves again . At the end of the movie , the slave boy witnesses the owner dying of a heart attack . He is going to fetch pills , but the dog gets in his way , defending the master . The boy has to choose whether to save his own life or risk it to save the old man . Sad ? Yes . The ending in particular . But if you can manage to sit through the scene of intense animal cruelty ( of course it wasn't real , it's the most realistic-LOOKING beating I've ever seen an animal take in a film before ) it's worth it .
Operator ! Operator !	You're walking down a busy street . You pass a phone booth . The phone starts to ring . Do you pick it up ? It must be part of the human psyche , but it seems that there is just something that makes us want to pick up that phone . We do . The same thing happens to New York City publicist Stuart Shephard , when he thinks nothing of picking up a phone on a Downtown street . On the other end is an unnerving voice that tells Stu not to hang up the phone . Stu soon realizes that the man - - whoever he is and wherever he is - - has a rifle . A sniper rifle . The Caller ( Kiefer Sutherland ) tells Stu that his lack of honesty and inhumanity has made him the target for this extortionist plot . If Stu hangs up the phone , he is dead . If Stu tells anyone who is on the other end of the phone , he is dead . The Caller wants Stu to confess his sins , which includes telling his wife why he uses a payphone every day instead of his cell phone . The reason is because Stu has been having a fling with a wannabe actress . The actress has no idea Stu's married . But when the Caller forces Stu to tell his wife the truth on television , everyone knows . But the Caller still won't let Stu go . He's never going to . Stu will be killed before the day is over . If the cops surrounding the place don't do something about it very soon . " Phone Booth " is brought to us by Joel Schumacher , a man many hate yet many adore . He is the man responsible for the previous two " Batman " installments . Many claim him of ruining a series , when , in fact , the series was ruined by the first sequel . Joel Schumacher is too heavy on the darks in his " Batman " films , and his directorial efforts can be very bad . But he also brought us the wonderful character breakdown story " Falling Down , " a film I have been quoted as saying is one of the best films of 1993 . He also brought us the Brat Pack film " St . Elmo's Fire , " the other Kiefer Sutherland film " The Lost Boys , " and , among others , the tragic " Bad Company " and " 8MM . " But " Phone Booth " has some of the attributes of all those films . It has some " Falling Down " in it , some " Bad Company " in it ( shudder ) , some " Lost Boys " in it , and yes , even some " Batman & Robin " in it . But it's on the same level as " Falling Down , " i . e . it's a very watchable , if somewhat repetitive thriller . My first impression upon seeing previews for " Phone Booth " was that I thought it had some real potential . Given the right dialogue and director , a boring situation can be turned into an intense one . Take , for instance , the scene where Stu is being commanded by the Caller to take a hidden handgun from the phone booth and wave it at the cops . We don't know how he's going to get out of it . But then when he does , we think to ourselves , " Why didn't I think of that ? " I like thrillers that make a situation seem inevitible , then suddenly solve the problem . Colin Farrell sports a good New York City accent , and Kiefer Sutherland sports a good Willem Dafoe voice . He's creepy , strange , and thanks to the film's technique of Hitchcockian suspense , we don't see him . At least for most of the film . ( Spoilers ahead ) The ending is a two-bit surprise . It's not just one twist , it's two . When the first twist was revealed , I thought it was the solution to the film , and it fit together more than a film like " Red Dragon " where you know the killer's going to come back . But then there's another twist . It's amazing , chilling , and eerie . And when the credits started rolling , my heart was still pounding . And even though some people will think this movie is tremendous and others will think it is ridiculous , it kept me on the edge of my seat and rarely let me down . Give it a chance . And next time you walk down a street , think twice before picking up that ringing phone . out of ( four out of five stars ) John Ulmer
Low expectations , but I was pleasantly surprised	I didn't expect much from " Beavis and Butt-Head Do America , " not least of all because what little I had seen of the television show totally failed to capture my interest and the title of the movie was a not-so-subtle sexual reference . ( There is also a special from 1995 named " Beavis and Butt-Head Do Christmas . " Har-har . ) However , I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that the film is quite entertaining . It's very short so there's not much to complain about in terms of length - it flies by quite quickly . The plot is amusing and there are lots of celebrity cameos - David Letterman , Bruce Willis , Demi Moore , and so on and so forth . The movie is very unassuming and is just plain entertaining . It's not the sort of film that is easy to hate , it's just very basic and amusing . Mike Judge since went on to greener pastures with the cult success of " Office Space " on video and seemed to abandon the concept of a " Beavis " sequel around 1999 ( there was one planned for a while ) . However recently I read that he's planning a comeback for the intellectually-devoid duo and I for one actually wouldn't be too hesitant about seeing another if it's done this well .
He's Back !	" Arthur 2 : On the Rocks " is the story of how Arthur ( Dudley Moore ) , the drunken title character , loses his $750 , 000 , 000 fortune and sobers up so he can adopt a baby . It starts out very good and right on target , but towards the last 45 minutes the film loses not only all credibility , but also all sense of cohesiveness . It's as if the writer wrote himself into a wall and tried to cut through it with a spoon . I'm not sure if that analogy was any good , but it's a bit better than the end of the movie . Of course , I haven't seen the original Oscar-winning " Arthur " ( 1981 ) , which may be a part of the reason I enjoyed the first half of " Arthur 2 " ( 1988 ) . I still remember when I first saw " The Fly " - - I had read all the positive reviews , I was really pumped up and after the credits started to roll I just sort of sat back and let out a sigh . But I had already seen its sequel , aptly named " The Fly II , " and I had enjoyed it . Why ? Because prior expectations can truly ruin a great movie . If I had gone into " The Fly " expecting nothing , I probably would have come out of it satisfied . But , in hindsight , I expected too much . And I hadn't expected anything going into " The Fly II , " which may amount to why I prefer it to the first film , despite its goofy nature and campy effects . Maybe that's why " Arthur 2 : On the Rocks " didn't seem so bad when I watched it . I didn't find a single positive review of the film on the Internet . IMDb's average user rating is currently 3 . 6 , and a year ago it was lower . Rotten Tomatoes ' rating is 0 % , with not a single positive thing to say . And I can understand why people might not like this movie , but if they think it's one of the worst films of all time . . . they've got another thing coming . Arthur and his wife , Linda ( Liza Minneli ) , are living freely . They own five homes in and around New York City , and Arthur's only worry in life is that he may get some . Linda , on the other hand , has a single worry : she can't have children , and she wants some . So they visit an adoption agency downtown , run by Mrs . Canby ( Kathy Bates ) , who promises she'll do her best to fix them up with a kid . Joy ! But then Burt Johnson ( Stephen Elliot ) buys out Arthur's family company , promising to sell out if Arthur is cut off from the family fortune - - all 750 , 000 , 000 dollars . Johnson's scheming is because he wants his daughter , Susan ( Cynthia Sikes ) , to be happy - - and she still wants to marry Arthur . If Arthur divorces his true love , Linda , and marries Johnson's snobby daughter , he can get his money back . But soon Arthur learns that money isn't the most important thing in life . This is an interesting premise , of course , but the fact that the entire character of Arthur is one built upon the sole theory that there's nothing to worry about in life is contradictory . If " Arthur " were a television show , it would have been a decent half hour of laughs to see him hit the streets in an attempt to sober up . But as a 107-minute film , " Arthur 2's " premise just isn't " Arthur , " as far as I can tell . At the end , Arthur cleans up and gets sober , and - - without spoiling how - - wins the day ( like there were any doubts as to whether that would happen ) . But the lasting image of a sober Arthur is far from the central idea of the character in the first place . And I must complain about something else I noticed - - something more disturbing than anything else in the film . At the very end , Kathy Bates delivers an adopted baby to the couple as they reunite on the street , only for Linda to announce on the spot that she's pregnant . Wouldn't Mrs . Canby ( Bates ) take the baby back and give her ( the baby , that is ) to a couple that can't have children ? No , she just smiles and stands back from the scene . This is an example of poor scriptwriting . " Arthur 2 : On the Rocks " is a hilarious film in its first half , and a bumbling message-driven snoozer in its second . If only all comedies could sustain laughs at a steady pace throughout . I can't necessarily say that " Arthur 2 " is a very bad movie , but I can't necessarily say I can recommend it , either . stars . - John Ulmer
An insightful documentary	" Metallica : Some Kind of Monster " is a mega documentary covering the band's lengthy recording process for their next album , " St . Anger . " Metallica , as if you didn't know by now , is the " . . . world's most popular heavy metal band . " They've got a worldwide cult followings and sell the most rock T-shirts along with The Doors , AC / DC , Led Zeppelin , Guns N ' Roses and , of course , The Beatles . ( I gather this statistic from a trustworthy source - my estimations . Har . Har . ) I don't like Metallica very much , my favorite work of theirs was the Black Album and . . . And Justice For All . The best has to be their live S & M performance with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra . As a result watching this documentary I had no reason to be impressed - I'm not a biased fan , I'm not even what you might call an interested viewer . But it caught my interest for the most part . The band seems rather stupid as a whole - the lead singer at one point asks another bandmate what the word " mission " means , and he's serious - and so is the guitarist when he replies . " It's , like , a goal , " he says . Okay , right . The recording process is really long and the band gets themselves into all sorts of fights , physical and verbal . ( But mostly verbal . ) The bass player Jason leaves early on and is replaced by Ozzy's ex-bass player , which was one of the cooler parts of the documentary , and something rarely seen . Overall this is a bit too long and definitely caters more towards Metallica fans . I also felt as if Metallica has been way over-exposed lately and they're not totally deserving of all their praise . I also don't like most of the bandmembers personally - they strike me as unlikable and dumb . ( Except for the drummer , who ironically is shot down the most by his peers when giving his opinion . ) Needless to say if you love Metallica you'll love this - if you don't , it's still a pretty cool glimpse into the downside of rock n ' roll .
Unfortunately , not as good as I had hoped	I saw this a few weeks back on Comcast's " On Demand . " On Demand usually offers independent films , old films or recent films that flopped . " Richard Pryor Live on the Sunset Strip " is somewhere in between - it is older ( released in 1982 ) but probably also flopped . It's not a very good indication of Richard Pryor's comedy - I've heard much funnier stuff coming out of his mouth in the past . The whole project feels too " large budget " - from the grand opening to the camera work inside the place . It's all too glossy , polished and over-produced - sticking a camera on stage and just WATCHING Richard Pryor for an hour and a half would have been funnier . On the other hand , this is still very funny . Pryor's funny no matter what - as a result I've rated this a seven ( out of ten ) but I can't help but imagine it could have been much , much better . Worth checking out if you're a Pryor fan - otherwise , start out with some of his albums if you're not familiar with his comedy .
Read the Book . . .	" The Sum of All Fears , " based on the # 1 New York Times bestselling novel by Tom Clancy , features Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan , a historian who somehow or another , by writing a paper on the new Russian leader , is spotted by the CIA Deputy Director ( Morgan Freeman ) . " The Sum of All Fears " is even more powerful in this day and age , but nevertheless , it stands nowhere near as great as the novel , which is usually the case with films taken from books . In the following I will point out some differences that weren't crucial to my opinion on the film , but just interesting . The film is a prequel to the other Jack Ryan films , while the novel was a sequel to the other books . In the book , a lost Israeli nuclear warhead is picked up by Arabs some twenty years after the war it was lost in . In the film , a modern-age Hitler is attempting to begin turmoil between Russia and the U . S . with the nuke - - there are no arabs . Also in the novel , the way the bomb was sneaked into the superbowl was much more interesting than the method they used in the film . Also , in the book , Morgan Freeman's character was a dumb man who hid throughout the novel . In the film he's a hero . There's countless other things that don't really matter , but still made me a bit disappointed in the film . The film was in no way awful , and is the best Tom Clancy movie to date , but it's still not as good as the book . stars - - John Ulmer
It's pretty tasty . . .	Characters can make or break a movie , and this goes especially for " American Pie , " a rude , crude , and downright raunchy film that would probably be considered one of the worst of the decade if not for the film's obvious love of its characters and their shortcomings and exploits . Some of the best of all comedies are so simply because they treat their characters with such loving affection - from works of comedy such as " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " to more dark and brooding comedies like " Fargo . " Without love of characters there is a lack of respect , a film goes nowhere and an audience senses both and disregards it . A film like " American Pie " may not be the best of all films but I laughed , not so much at the gags but rather because the characters taking part in the gags seemed pretty darn infectious and sweet . Beneath the crudeness there's a heart - you just may have to dig through some waste to get there . The film lacks the honesty and realism of teenagers that made John Hughes ' 80s films so appealing to audiences - this is more or less a routine sex-and-prom teen comedy - but , like I said , the characters make up for this . It's about four graduating teenagers - Jim ( Jason Biggs ) , Oz ( Chris Klein ) , Kevin ( Thomas Ian Nicholas ) and Stifler ( Seann William Scott ) - who make a pact to have sex by prom night . Bring the whole family to this one - you'll have a ball ! A pretty immature and borderline basic plot we have that is put to pretty good use through some crazy - though immature - antics . The title of the film is more than just a figure of speech . There's a scene where a foreign exchange student named Nadia ( Shannon Elizabeth , not to be confused with Elizabeth Shannon of " Saturday Night Live " ) undresses in the Biggs character's room and everything is broadcasted across the Internet . I can't divulge into anything else because I'm writing for family websites . But let me say that if you think " Austin Powers " had a mouthful of innuendos , " American Pie " has that plus some . ( It's sad to think that they had to guarantee an R-rating by inserting nudity and constant language - is the MPAA so ignorant that without nudity a film crammed with sexual innuendo like this would be PG-13 ? ) We also get to learn the meaning of the word , " MILF . " I really can't say very much about this movie , or even go into its plot any further . All I can say is that I laughed . I liked the characters . I liked the innocence of blunders ; that the characters often do things and humiliate themselves but not on purpose like in some comedies . But what holds me back from giving this a great rating is that the content is a bit too strong even for those 17 , which the MPAA finds a suitable age to view this ( it makes promiscuity seem all the more nerdy ; the characters never consider the after effects of their night of passion ) . It is a very typical and cliched teen sex comedy , in a way , which holds back my rating a bit . It is a pretty funny film , no doubt , but the basis and outcome are both very typical . It makes one laugh while at the same time wishing Ferris Bueller - an intelligent , resourceful , sneaky teenager whose mind was not cliched and always focused on sex - would return . Where's John Hughes when you need him ? stars -
The best " Nightmare " movie - funny , scary , clever and fresh	Wes Craven was most popular for creating the self-referential subgenre of horror movies with " Scream " in 1996 , but it was actually two years prior - with " New Nightmare " - that he first played around with the concept . This semi-sequel to the popular " Nightmare on Elm Street " series ( begun in 1984 ) takes place in the real world , and revolves around actress Heather Langenkamp and her fame after the success of the films . However , ten years after the original , a stalker has started to leave her menacing phone calls mimicking the voice of Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) , the infamous character who - in the film series itself - is the dead pedophile who lives in children's dreams and kills them in their sleep . Freddy was killed off in the last " Nightmare " movie and now he's crossing over into the real world to seek revenge . He kills Heather's husband and begins to go after her son , Dylan ( Miko Hughes ) , who is plagued by terrifying nightmares . Meanwhile , Robert Englund suffers similar scares and begins to have odd visions involving his character Freddy . " New Nightmare " is a very clever film , but it's not perfect . In terms of scares , it is far more polished than the original - a larger budget , better makeup , and generally just more professional . The scary moments are more tense and frightening . But there are some lapses in logic . Heather's husband dies and she doesn't seem to care very much ( this may have to do with the fact that she's simply a bad actress to begin with , but it also just might be a bad script ) . She visits the morgue and leaves her son at home in the middle of the morning - presumably without a babysitter . A bit of an odd thing to do after having obsessed about making sure he wasn't alone at any given time due to his Freddy visions . Similar inconsistencies occur throughout the film , but in my opinion , it's about on par with the original " Nightmare on Elm Street " and probably - at least from a technical perspective - the best of the bunch . I generally enjoy clever , self-referential films and that's just an added bonus here - I'd call this the most original and witty entry in the series , by far .
Not the funniest film ever made , but essential viewing	The first time I saw " Some Like it Hot " as a teenager I didn't really like it very much . It was one of my father's favorite films but after he watched it again with me even he claimed he found it to be quite disappointing , and that he had " remembered it being funnier . " I know the whole genre-swapping thing was risqué in 1959 and I appreciate the layers of the film - all the sexual references ( such as Tony Curtis ' pointed foot during his scene with Marilyn Monroe as a pretty obvious sight gag ) and other stuff that goes on . However I couldn't help but find my overall reaction somewhat mixed . Viewing it again a few years later I found it to be a bit more enjoyable , but I still would not call it the greatest comedy of all-time . In my opinion Wilder's other collaboration with Jack Lemmon , a similarly ahead-of-its time and racy film called " The Apartment " ( released a year later ) , is superior to " Some Like It Hot . " But this one seems to receive even more critical attention than Wilder and Lemmon's other film and I believe it was voted by the AFI as the second funniest film of all time ( with " Tootsie " at number one ) . The performances cannot be faulted . Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis are both very good and Curtis ' classic Cary Grant impersonation has become something of a film legend . Monroe isn't the best actress in the world ( and it's certainly not as good a performance as she gave in " The Misfits " a couple years later ) but she's basically there to look pretty and be bubbly , and that works well . Overall I'd say this comedy works rather well for the first forty minutes , but like many body-swapping comedies of today , once the ideas run out it kind of gets old fast . The Cary Grant impersonation and Lemmon's hilarious ( and rather disturbing ) romance with a rich man whilst dressed up as a woman both add a bit of flair to the plot , but in the end I'd say I find it to be more fondly remembered than it perhaps deserves to be - but that's just me .
Some of the best one-liners ever in an enjoyable action yarn	The Last Boy Scout is loud , vulgar , trashy ? and great entertainment . Bruce Willis plays Joe Hallenbeck , a disgruntled former Secret Service agent struggling with personal demons , a dysfunctional home life and an unsuccessful attempt at living as a private detective . When his newest client , Cory ( Halle Berry ) , is murdered , her boyfriend ( Damon Wayans ) joins Hallenback to find out why she was killed . What follows is typically Tony Scott ? accentuated action , male bonding and loads of violent , gruesome deaths followed by outbursts of comic one-liners . Written by Shane Black ( Lethal Weapon ) and directed by Scott ( Top Gun ) , Last Boy Scout works thanks to Bruce Willis and Damon Wayans . The script is stupid , borderline ludicrous ? quickly stretching beyond believability , ending in an explosive ( somewhat literally ) climax that resorts to all the clichés of the genre . However , there is some self-satire to be found within the material . Villains are referred to consistently as " the bad guys . " Loads of genre clichés are fooled with , spun into jokes ? the car chases and action sequences become satirical in nature , whilst the personal life of Hallenbeck ? something that might normally be sugar-coated in another genre film ? is totally fed up , leaving us with a pre-teen daughter who uses profanity like it's going out of style , a cheating wife , and a weary father who stopped giving a crap about it all a long time ago . It's the stuff like this that makes Last Boy Scout succeed past its own sources . Shane Black is excellent at writing this type of stuff , and it really shows . Willis is given the best one-liners of his entire career , making Die Hard's crackling dialog look like child's play . Willis in particular is so good , and so at ease with his character , that his cynical and edgy performance makes the film worth seeing ? and heck , even worth owning . It's the ultimate Stupid Male Action Film with Great One-Liners and Loads of Action , a genre I'd like to hereby declare official .
What a nice surprise !	Like ' As Good As It Gets ' and ' Sleepless in Seattle ' if a romantic comedy is done right , it can be very entertaining to both sexes . Too many so-called ' romantic comedies ' come out nowadays that are just ridiculous-all they are are stupid , dumb , unrealistic teen movies . But alas , when a romantic film is done right , you get a nice surprise , which Notting Hill was . The screenplay is very humorous and pleasant , and so is the acting . While Hugh Grant is nothing great , I must say he chooses good romantic comedies to be in . I lived in England over 5 years , and picked up the British ' humor ' that is so many times overlooked , or called ' raunchy ' and while their sitcoms may be this sometimes , the main humor is not raunchy ! Notting Hill captures this humor and puts it in a blender , along with a great screenplay , cinematography , and chemistry . All in all I found Notting Hill to be a very pleasant , nice surprise , that female and male alike can enjoy . stars - - JOHN ULMER
The Big Kahuna	This is a powerful movie with a bold statement . Like many films if its type - A Clockwork Orange , Natural Born Killers , etc . - it has been misunderstood by some as a glorification of this type of behavior . Although it is not violent like films such as Killers or Clockwork , it is a terribly misogynist film about two sexist male chauvinists who embark on a business trip for a few weeks after both experiencing heartbreak due to women , and decide to take out their anger and frustration upon the female sex by coercing a kind deaf woman into relationships and then leaving her emotionally dead after both leaving to go back home without telling her anything in advance . The plan is orchestrated by Aaron Eckhart's character , who is one of the most unlikeable characters I've ever seen in a movie . He has virtually no redeeming qualities whatsoever . This film is very character-driven and relies heavily on dialogue . The summary for my review is " The Big Kahuna " because it reminded me very much of the Kevin Spacey / Danny DeVito movie , which basically had a cast of only three actors ( four if you count a bellboy on screen for a few seconds ) . The Spacey character in that film is a bit like Eckhart's here . If you like satirical films and can understand the difference between a movie that is criticizing something and glorifying it , then you should definitely check this out . It's one of those films that the critics understood for the most part , but got really bad press on behalf of some female rights activists and conservatives who decided to jump on the bandwagon and brandish this film " cruel and insensitive " before actually seeing it , and as such in the public eye it failed miserably . Although it isn't a flawless movie and isn't as strong as other satires , I found it to be a fascinating and brutally honest character examination that revealed a lot of truth about society today . Not all men are as utterly vile as the two leads in this film , but to a lesser extent they exhibit a lot of the same traits as these two men , and also treat women as sexual objects . " In the Company of Men " is an unreserved insight into the minds of two bitter , sexist people - and if you think you can stomach some rather upsetting sequences of dialogue referencing women in a less-than-positive light ( to put it nicely ) , this is definitely worth a look .
Don't let the title mislead you , it's not a horror film .	This was director Michael Haneke and star Isabelle Huppert's reunion , and it's a good film , but one that takes too long and isn't as good as it thinks it is . I gave it a " 7 " star rating based solely on the fact that I thought it was well-acted , well-directed and captured a good gritty realism . Shame about the rest , though . The plot follows a group of people ( mainly Huppert and her children ) in a sort of semi-post-apocalyptic world , where everything's changing and disaster has torn the world apart . It's " Mad Max Lite . " The story isn't the most impressive aspect of the film , but the direction ( as aforementioned ) doesn't disappoint . All in all it's a worthwhile film that could have been better . I saw it for free , but I'd probably pay to see it again in the future if I was given the chance .
Better than the original ; loads of fun if you shut off your brain . . . or not .	Call me incredibly surprised : " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " is a splendid delight - - the type of horror film that fans of the genre have been waiting years to see . It far surpasses Tobe Hooper's low-budget original . Nope , this critic has never been a big fan of Hooper's " classic " low budget indie film from 1974 . So when I heard that a remake featuring Jessica Biel was being made by a former music video director , I was not excited - - to say the least . The months of production passed pretty quickly for this movie lover . Then the trailer came before I could even blink , and in less than what seemed a month or two it was already in theaters . Then I saw the movie earlier tonight and I found myself strangely absorbed in its characters and story - - well , not really the characters , just the freaky updates implemented into the movie . Here we get nasty , gruesome exploitation of brutal murders that would make the Mansons cringe - - so anyone who tells you that this film isn't disturbing is lying . Anyone who says it isn't scary is lying , too . Many directors mistakenly assume that gore automatically equals thrills and scares , but not in " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " - - we get some pure , genuine scares here - - the type of scenes that make the audience grab their arm cushions in suspense , only dreaming of what may come . But we also get loads of blood - - enough to satisfy any Freddy or Jason fan . We get much more blood than the original Leatherface ever sloshed around on the set of the original movie . Still , it never overpowers the thrills . Well , maybe just a little . The plot : A pack of five teenagers on their way to a concert pick up a female hitch hiker who tells them , " You're all gonna die ! " before blowing her brains out with a concealed weapon . ( Which we later find out belonged to the town sheriff - - hmm , what could this mean ? ) After stopping at a nearby gas station for help , the teenagers find themselves in an awkward position when a mutated backwoods hillbilly sends his chainsaw-wielding son after them . " Bring it on ! " the cripple yells , pounding his cane on the floor of his house , before the infamous Leatherface emerges from behind a closed door and chases our heroine out the door , eventually slicing a man's leg off and sticking him on a meat hook . ( One of the most realistic and gruesome scenes I've ever had the uncomfortable pleasure of viewing . ) R . Lee Ermey is absolutely delightful as the corrupt " cop " of the Texas town - - foul-mouthed and vulgar ( " I used to like to get a touch , " he says investigating a dead girl and fondling her ) , a sort of redneck version of his character from Kubrick's " Full Metal Jacket " : harsh and brutal . Biel , who I watched grow up on " 7th Heaven , " displays some talent amid the screaming of the cast . But unlike some of the recent so-called " horror films " where the characters are comprised of stupid , horny , busty and truly idiotic characters who run around with wet T-shirts and clasp their perfect cheeks as they scream , " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " actually takes the time to slow down and insert some true chills and thrills . And just like the original , it doesn't rely on sex and stupid characters as a fallback method . If anything , this version succeeds far past the original - - and when I say that , I don't imply that it succeeds merely on one level . stars . - John Ulmer
An interesting " true story " that is respectfully told and generally well-made	This film is the supposed " true story " about an American book collector and her transatlantic communication ( via letter ) with an English book store owner . Seeking a rare book , Helen ( the late Anne Bancroft ) contacts a store in England and is delighted to find the book she is looking for . The owner ( Anthony Hopkins ) sends it to her , cheap . She continues using the store as her new hunting grounds , contacting the owner frequently in pursuit of new rarities . Eventually the two form a friendship and plan to meet . I saw this twice , once in a hotel room in London and again on Comcast's " freeview " service channel . I enjoyed the film both times and , although I found it a bit slow-moving at times , generally it's engaging and remains interesting throughout . Hopkins and Bancroft both give very good performances , with Hopkins perfectly epitomizing the classy Brit ; whereas Bancroft does great work as a loud " New York Jew . " ( These are not my words ! ) The movie won three BAFTA Awards when it came out back in 1987 and I can see why . It's not " great " but it's very good and respectfully made , well-told with an entertaining and quite amazing story . Worth seeing if you can find it on TV some time .
Pretty good	Tom Cruise gives us one of his best performances , and isn't yet so full of himself , like he was in the recent film MINORITY REPORT . Demi Moore , ex-wife of Bruce Willis gives her definite best performance , though I feel they could've gotten someone better to play the character . Kevin Bacon delivers a force on screen , such as never before , and Kevin Pollack gives a definite best performance . Jack Nicholson , of whom is in the film not much , but enough not to be listed as a cameo , gives a pulse pounding performance , with those ever famous words , ' You Can't handle the Truth ! ' The director of A FEW GOOD MEN is Rob Reiner ( the Princess Bride ) , and he does a wonderful job directing this all star cast . He truly delivers just what we want as the screen moves on , as such he did with THE PRINCESS BRIDE . If you're looking for a solid , rock hard movie delivering some of the actors best performances , then I definitely recommend A FEW GOOD MEN to you !
Everyone loves some good porn ! ( Oh , wait , this isn't porn . )	After John Holmes died of AIDS in the eighties , the Famous Male Porn Star slot was left open . Holmes had successfully managed to help make porn something more than just a thing for " excited " guys . His Johnny Wadd character has become semi-famous like any regular movie character - he was even referenced to in " Mystery Science Theater . " He was around when porn became pretentious and tried to develop story lines , resulting in some really bad , bad porno - and some really cheesy stuff like " Pizza Girls . " Ron Jeremy was overweight and not-too-good-looking but he had a long shl0ng and managed to fill John's position after he died . He instantly became famous for his , err , " attribute " and " penetrated " the world of porn like no other . ( Okay , here end the none-too-subtle sexual innuendo on my behalf ! ) This revealing documentary ( darn ! There I go again ! ) follows Ron's life from childhood to porn - detailing how he became involved in X-rated films to begin with , and when exactly he became the most famous male porn star in the industry . The documentary features interviews from Ron himself , as well as fellow porn stars and directors . There are also some celebrity interviews for good measure . If you aren't interested in porn at all you may still find something worthwhile here because Ron's life is pretty interesting , just in terms of how successful he's been in his transition from porn to Hollywood ( nabbing some roles in major films , including Trey Parker's " Orgazmo " ) . I'm not a big porn watcher ( despite my knowledge of pretentious ' 70s porn , which I only know of - I swear - because of " Boogie Nights " . . . and a few I watched ) but I found this fun and engaging . It works as a good documentary , a good comedy , and a good porno . Just kidding on the last one ! Here ends my sickening sexual-innuendo .
There's Something About Nothing . . .	I don't understand all the hype about this film . Okay , so it's irreverant . That doesn't always mean funny . The film starts out in the mid-eighties , when geeky high-schooler Ted Stroehmann ( played by Ben Stiller ) finds the girl of his dreams - - Mary ( Cameron Diaz ) . After being nice to Mary's mentally deformed brother , Ted is asked by Mary to go to the prom with her . But due to some " unfortunate incidents , " Ted is unable to take her , and we warp to . Ted keeps thinking about Mary , so his friend ( Chris Elliot ) gets a Private Investigator ( Matt Dillon ) to track down Mary . Pretty soon , everyone is heading head-over-heels regarding Mary , and a predictable ending sums up the film . Okay , here's the review : the film started out great . I enjoyed all the jokes in the beginning , and was not bothered by the politically incorrect jokes that most people who hated this film were offended by . But , once we warp to ' 97 , the jokes start to fall flat - - and plain disgusting - - and I wondered why audiences and critics around the globe loved this film . Another big turn-off for me was the " cleaning the tubes " scene . We didn't need visuals , Farrelly brothers . I did chuckle throughout the film , but I expected " Mary " to be the best comedy of the year . What a let-down . I was the rare person who enjoyed " Dumb and Dumber . " It rides along the line of crude and normal , and never passes the line . " Mary , " however , crosses the line shamelessly , and never gets back on track . It just keeps slipping farther and farther into immature , eighth grade , gross-out humor . The fact the Peter and Bobby Farrelly have to subject audiences to such disgusting visuals and gags is disappointing , and I think they should be ashamed of themselves . I like Ben Stiller , but this film was just too raunchy and unfunny to enjoy his performance . I could tell he tried to make it funny , but it just failed . I saw on AMC that he didn't want to do the " cleaning the tubes " scene because he was afraid it would ruin his career . I don't blame him . " Mary " overall has some laughs , but not enough , and despite being crude or not , it still is not an outrageously funny film , and not the best of 1998 . stars - - John Ulmer
It's not a great movie , but given the other awful TV show remakes abounding the film market , you could certainly do worse than S . W . A . T .	People are often complaining about Hollywood these days , saying how commercialized and greedy it's become over the years , and how the quality of films such as " Citizen Kane " and " Casablanca " are long forgotten . It's true . The most pertinent proof that Hollywood is running out of original ideas is the fact that film executives are constantly giving the thumbs up to remakes of old 60s and 70s TV shows like " The Brady Bunch " and " Charlie's Angels . " Next year we're all going to be sitting through " Bewitched " with Nicole Kidman and Will Ferrell . The question is : Does " Bewitched " even need a remake ? That's not to say that there aren't original writers out there . Having written a fair share of film screenplays myself , and having read many others , the supply of original scripts is quite high . The demand is not . It's sad when quality films are passed for big-budget extravaganzas with not an ounce of thought and given the green light simply because some overweight pen pusher is considering the zeros . " SWAT " is a breath of fresh air from the typical TV show remakes . It's not one of the best films in recent memory , but it's not nearly as clichéd or goofy as I had imagined before going to see it . In fact , it's surprisingly gritty - more like an R-rated movie than a PG-13 . The film stars Colin Farrell as Jim Street . In the beginning , Jim is taking part in a routine hostage situation . At first it's being controlled by the police , but then matters become desperate . " Call in the SWAT , " a cop says over a radio transmission , and then we see Jim and his five-year partner , Gamble ( Jeremy Renner ) , giving their best efforts . Gamble injures a hostage with a shot he wasn't supposed to take , though , and Jim and Gamble are reprimanded . Gamble is thrown off the force and Jim is reassigned to the lowly life of a SWAT weapons expert . Six months go by , and Sgt . Dan " Hondo " ( Samuel L . Jackson ) gives his machine gun to Jim , who does a great job tweaking around with it . And , as if by luck , Dan is assigned to put together a new SWAT team . He chooses Jim , based on his weapon skills ; Chris Sanchez ( Michelle Rodriguez ) , a tough lady ; T . J . McCabe ( Josh Charles ) , the wimpy guy ; Michael Boxer ( Brian Van Holt ) , Jim's enemy on the force ; and Deke ( LL Cool J ) , a fast runner , as proved in his introductory sequence . After the routine training scenes , the action jumpstarts when a foreign kingpin , Alex Montel ( Olivier Martinez ) comes to town in hopes of making a name for himself . But that doesn't happen - much to the audiences ' surprise - because Alex is arrested for a broken tail light and thrown in jail . That's how the trouble starts . Alex offers a high payment to anyone who can break him out of jail - and during a prisoner transport , this happens , headed by Gamble and his cronies . Jim and co . are sent after the ex-SWAT member and his gang , in hopes of taking them down before Alex gets out of the country and so on and so forth . Sounds pretty standard , right ? It is . But the film is directed by Clark Johnson in a distinctly grainy style , reminiscent of " Training Day , " only a bit softer . And the script doesn't resort to clichés all that often - when you think there's going to be a car chase , or a big shoot-out , nothing happens . Which is actually quite a relief , despite the fact that some audiences may have been expecting something a little bit . . . more . Colin Farrell is doing exactly what he did in " The Recruit , " acting smart and tough . Michelle Rodriguez is starting to stereotype herself after such flicks as " The Fast and the Furious " and " Resident Evil , " playing tough women in both films , but I suppose that's all she really can play . The actor who really surprised is an actor who's been around for quite some time : Samuel L . Jackson . Jackson is enjoyable , as usual , as the guy who knows everything - a role that usually fits him . But he steals the show from the other actors with his sly coolness that he displayed in " Pulp Fiction . " " SWAT " isn't as goofy as you think it's going to be . It's also not as action-packed as you might expect . If you want another " Die Hard " rip-off , look elsewhere . " SWAT " is , surprisingly , a pretty smart and character-driven action movie that never resorts to the typical action film clichés . It's not a great movie , but given the other awful TV show remakes abounding the film market , you could certainly do worse than " SWAT . "
An insightful documentary	This documentary - filmed exclusively for the 2004 DVD release of " Bubba Ho-tep " ( which , incidentally , is still available to purchase a year after its initial release despite having been a " limited edition " ) is an insightful look into the making of the cult hit . The documentary's best parts are when it exposes the truth behind decisions , such as when star Bruce Campbell contacted director Don Coscarelli because of his concern about the penis gags in the script - he wanted to make sure nothing would be shown in detail . Director Coscarelli tells of how he originally stumbled upon the short story in a collection by one of his favorite authors , and how he immediately thought it would be a great movie . The making-of included on the DVD isn't great , but - like the movie - is entertaining and different . If you rent or buy the disc , make sure to watch this along with the " King " commentary on the film itself , which is very funny .
Wacky , whimsical and a bit alienating .	" The Royal Tenenbaums " is a well-made movie with a very strong cast , but I personally found it a bit alienating . I prefer Wes Anderson's " Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou " - - they're both equally pretentious , however " Life Aquatic " was funnier to me and also more appealing because its themes were better developed than " Tenenbaums , " which deals with so many characters that it can become a bit muddled at times . I like both films , though . This one's advantage is that it came first and therefore the whimsical , wacky nature of the story was more original ( " Rushmore " was weird too , but in a more traditional sense ) . " Royal Tenenbaums " stars Gene Hackman as Royal Tenenbaum , an ex-millionaire who has been exiled by his family and lives alone in a fancy apartment downtown - until he loses all his cash and is kicked out onto the streets . Faced with nothing , he tells his family he is dying of stomach cancer in the hopes that they will accept him back into their lives . The family - Anjelica Huston , Luke Wilson , Gwyneth Paltrow and Ben Stiller - don't care one way or another , except for Stiller , a braniac whiz-kid who has grown up into a neurotic man . His wife has just died and he's alone with his two kids , wanting nothing to do with the father he never had as a child . There are other wacky characters - Bill Murray as Paltrow's shrink husband , Danny Glover as an associate of Huston's ( and a potential love interest ) , and Owen Wilson playing Luke Wilson's best friend . The movie is good and I admire how its fairy-tale / children's book-structure is so well captured - even with the turning pages that appear on screen to introduce new " chapters " of the story . But overall I was left feeling a little underwhelmed when it was over , thinking I preferred " Life Aquatic " a bit more because I just found it more easily accessible in terms of humor and narrative . " Royal Tenenbaums " is pretentious and showy , but if you like unique films , you'll find something worthwhile here .
Not great but interesting	" 8 Mile " is basically a biopic of singer Eminem . That he plays the lead character in the film just gives more reason to believe this . Kim Basinger , who plays his mother , allegedly based her own role on Eminem's accounts of his real mother . It's about a young white rapper from Detroit who wants to make it big but has to cope with personal issues along the way , which he vents about through his music . Curtis Hanson ( " L . A . Confidential " ) is a surprising choice for director but it works out well - the film has a grungy , gritty urban feel to it . The acting is pretty good - Eminem got a lot of attention when the film came out but to be fair he's really just playing himself ; I wasn't in awe of his performance as some critics claimed to be . Basinger turns in a sleazy performance as his sexually active , emotionally abusive trailer park mother . The soundtrack also features the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " - one of few rap songs I actually enjoy listening to .
Very funny at times	IMDb user Blake French writes , in regards to " Mrs . Doubtfire " : " ' Mrs . Doubtfire ' is one of the most invigorating , vivid character studies to be produced on the big screen this decade . Most of the characters are strongly executed with decisive dialogue . They are also beautifully written with tainted personalities and uncompromising wit . Chris Columbus has assembled a stellar dramatic comedy with excellent screen writing , giving audiences one of the most punctually artful films I have ever witnessed . " I don't really agree with this . I wouldn't quite call it a " punctually artful " film . There's nothing artful about a hairy guy stuffing a cake onto his face to make it look like an exfoliating cream . Or running around swapping clothes in a restaurant like a frantic ape . But this movie is funny . . . and for as slapstick as its humor is , it's also surprisingly human in nature , which is something Blake touched upon in his review . Robin Williams stars as Daniel , a guy whose wife ( Sally Field ) leaves him with their three kids after he misses his kid's birthday party . ( Ooh , talk about grounds for divorce ! ) Daniel loves his kids , though , so he dresses up as a woman with prosthetic effects and becomes their nanny under the false identity of an Irish ( ? ) housekeeper named Mrs . Doubtfire . Meanwhile Daniel's ex-wife begins dating a rich and suave English businessman ( Pierce Brosnan pre-James Bond ) and he becomes jealous , trying to ruin their relationship under the guise of Doubtfire . This movies is quite similar to the Dustin Hoff " classic " comedy " Tootsie " in terms of plotting . They're both quite funny and some of the only guy-in-drag films that are actually good . Williams is funny ( one of his last truly humorous performances ) and totally steals the spotlight from everyone else - including Brosnan . Chris Columbus ( " Home Alone " ) has a way of making over-the-top films while managing to restrain them to the elements of humanity , and that's the clearest thing about this film - what makes it funny and , ultimately , so likable , even when it's not cracking us up consistently .
Why was this rated PG-13 ?	I don't understand the MPAA . They've actually classified the crude , innuendo-packed " Austin Powers " in the same category as " Whale Rider . " It's a sign of the times , really . I just don't get it . " Whale Rider " has a positive message for young girls ( and boys ) . The " brief language " the MPAA is so concerned about is inconsequential ; I've heard worse in PG movies . ( I mean just look at " E . T . " and that's considered a " classic " family movie . ) The " drug content " ? Well , there's a very brief reference to smoking pot , and that is it . It's worth pointing out the heroine refuses to smoke dope , an inspiring message , but oh no - dope is still dope and the MPAA doesn't want that in a PG ! But oh yeah you can show underage sex in " Big " and the MPAA doesn't care at all . You can also say the F-word in " Big " ( by a child no less ) and nope , apparently it doesn't matter . And yes PG-13 did exist in 1988 when " Big " was released , so why the contradiction ? I don't get it . " Whale Rider " is not a great movie and it's familiar for anyone who's seen an underdog story before . But it's true , inspirational and more authentic than many other such films and paints a really sweet image - - it features a truly inspirational message at its core that every girl should see . Apparently the MPAA believes otherwise . But don't worry , there's always " Spaceballs " to be seen with your young daughter , what with its genitalia gags , profanity ( including the F-word ) and other stuff , all in the name of good clean PG-rated entertainment . ( Yep , " Spaceballs " was PG , even though some video cases were printed with PG-13 on the back ; look it up on IMDb for proof if you need it . ) The MPAA sucks .
A Classic Thriller That Works . . .	Mel Gibson stars as Tom Mullen , a successful businessman with a wife , Kate , played by Rene Russo . One day , tragedy strikes when Tom's son Sean ( Brawley Nolte ) is kidnapped by Detective Jimmy Shaker , and is held for ransom . Tom , being the businessman he is , can sense a blush , and in a last effort turns the tables on the kidnapper . Ron Howard directed this film , and I for one am not a fan of Howard . I didn't love " A Beautiful Mind " and all his other hyped-up films . I did , however , enjoy " Apollo Thirteen , " and " Ransom " almost equals " Apollo " on a scale of greatness . Due primarily to terrific acting , an excellent script and gut-wrenching moments , this classy remake nailed what it was aiming for . I was very surprised . stars - - John Ulmer
Smart and thought-provoking	" Seeing Other People " is a daring romantic comedy about a couple named Ed and Alice ( Jay Mohr and Julianne Nicholson ) who are engaged and plan to be wed soon . They live together but are both having doubts about their relationship . Alice realizes she's had so few sexual relationships in the past , she might just be marrying Ed because she's never felt anything else . So they agree to begin fooling around with other people for a while to test their own relationship . The movie balances a prescient question - by focusing too much on the " What if ? " aspects of life , can it in fact do the opposite and only make you feel more constrained ? When Ed begins having sex with a college girl he begins to become addicted and almost forget about Alice - when he realizes this , it scares him . I hadn't heard anything about this film in advance but I enjoyed it . It's not extremely well-made and definitely has that purposefully low-budget indie feel to it - but it's a lot better than most romantic comedies out there in the mainstream today . Check it out if you get a chance .
S-s-s-s-mokin ' !	Jim Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss , a " zero " as the film tagline says , who never speaks his mind about anything . The typical mild-mannered guy . After Stanley finds an enchanted mask under a bridge one day , though , everything changes . He goes from " zero to hero " . But first , he plays around with his new found menacing powers . Calling the mask a hero is like calling Hitler kind of a good guy . The mask makes Stanley rob banks , scare people and more . He's half-hero . " The Mask " is not great , but it fits Carrey's film persona quite well . He bounces off the wall ( literally ) and just doesn't sit still . Typical Carrey . If you're not one for loser-to-hero films or wacky slapstick , don't see " The Mask " . Otherwise , it's worth a peek . stars
Well made .	Mel Gibson's third directorial project is a stunning example of powerful film-making . Gibson has literally gambled everything on " The Passion , " and it has certainly paid off . As a film , graded against other epics , " The Passion " stands strong . If you can leave your religion ( or lack thereof ) at the door , and see this movie as it is intended to be seen , its power is undeniable . The movie is unflinching in its graphic nature , yet more hesitant at times than some would have you believe . Take , for instance , the scene where Jesus is whipped . Once we've seen enough , Gibson pulls the camera away and focuses on the face of a spectator , and we simply hear the lashes . " The Passion of the Christ " has come under attack for being the " most violent movie ever made . " It is not . I also didn't find it to be Anti-Semitic , which has been another criticism thrown against it . Is the film enjoyable ? About as enjoyable as something like this can be . It's more of an artistic statement , I'd say , and I admire the technical aspects and commitment and passion invested into the project ( no pun intended ) . I'm not sure it's something I'd want to watch very often , but I'm glad I saw it .
It's no " Platoon , " but it works . . .	You either hate Brian DePalma , or you love him . He's either a rip-off of Hitchcock or the next master of suspense . His films are either awful or bad . It's selective . People either love or hate " Scarface . " They either love or hate " Raising Cain . " " Mission : Impossible " is either one of the smartest films you've ever seen , or one of the dumbest . " Snake Eyes " has style or nothing . So he tried " Casualties of War , " two years after " Platoon " came out in 1987 , in order to change his image and imitate Oliver Stone with the film's hard and gritty portrayal of war . And it works - - to a certain extent . The pros : Good true story , fine acting , fairly strong script , good emotional heart-tuggers . The cons : Sean Penn's accent , DePalma's rather boring direction , a somewhat contrived lead character , and a mildly fake feel to the film . Fox is Eriksson , an infantryman with a wife and daughter who joins the fight in Vietnam and witnesses a brutal murder and rape . Supposedly based on a true story and a novel by Daniel Lang , it all starts when Eriksson is transferred to a veteran five-man platoon led by Meserve ( Penn ) , a 20-year-old New Yorker with a thick accent and no moral standards . Eriksson watches in horror as they raid a Vietnamese village and kidnap a young woman ( Thuy Thu Le ) . They make her march with them and then later rape her , with the exception of Eriksson , who watches in disgust and tries to free the girl - - but too late , since Meserve has already given the order for her death . This is essentially a story of depravity and morals , fed with a backdrop of a true story that will haunt a lot of viewers who aren't able to stomach a lot of sex and violence - - especially considering the context both are used in . The problems with the film bring it down a notch or two . DePalma , notorious for outlandish filming and style , tries to make a new mold for himself - - but he can't help but slip into his old form again . Check out the scene where Fox confronts Dale Dye , a retired Military Captain who provides a commentary on the new DVD for " Platoon , " which he also starred in and was an advisor on . Watch as DePalma bends the camera at an awkward angle - - for no purpose whatsoever . I respect filmmaking techniques when they're done for a purpose . " Scarface " is a great movie . I've always had a soft spot for " Raising Cain . " But both films used the awkward angles and outlandish styles to their advantage - - " Scarface " with what DePalma described as its " coked-out music , " and " Cain " because it dealt with split personality disorder - - something that might trigger different angles on screen . Here it makes no sense to use them . Michael J . Fox , one of my favorite actors , tries his best to convince us that someone like himself would survive in Vietnam as long as he does - - but fails . The film is preachy about morals and war - - but it tries too hard and turns Eriksson into a type of Lone Saint . He wouldn't have survived an hour with that attitude - - his own men would've killed him off long before the " gooks . " Penn's accent is too comical - - in Lang's book the kid was from Brooklyn . Penn shouldn't have tried to become the character in the book - - he should have stayed himself . Penn's a great villain , but here he's nothing more than a decent one . This movie isn't bad by any degree of criticism . It has its flaws , but for the most part it's an enjoyable movie . The worst thing about it is that it's not very memorable , and it's not on the same level as " Platoon " or " Apocalypse Now . " But regardless , it works . And hey , you get to see Ving Rhames with hair . stars . - John Ulmer
Not as good as I had hoped but still a fine film	I had heard a lot about " Donnie Brasco " and thought it would be really great . First of all it stars two of the best actors of all time - Pacino and the underrated , truly wonderful character actor Johnny Depp who has struggled throughout his entire career turning down big-budget roles in order to separate himself from the " pretty boys . " His role here is convincing - but somehow it left me feeling a bit unimpressed overall . Pacino , however , is really good and totally cast against type . Seeing the trailer , reading about the film , viewing the DVD cover , I just _ knew _ it was going to be another one of Pacino's recent cocky , yelling roles ( e . g . Devil's Advocate ) . However he really portrays his character well , and I was surprised to see him playing a loser versus the Mafia kingpin I had expected . I thought Pacino's character was a Mafia don or something , and was pleasantly surprised to find out that he's actually a lowlife in this film and Michael Madsen plays the kingpin . Unfortunately the film itself left me a bit underwhelmed . It's nowhere near as good , heavy or memorable as " GoodFellas , " which is sort of unfortunate as they're so often compared on Internet forums ( just take a look at IMDb ! ) . They're really not in the same league as far as I'm concerned and although " Donnie Brasco " is a fine film with two good performances , it overall just left me wanting more .
Ferris Bueller meets The Godfather !	A nice self-referential comedy about a first-year film student in New York City who gets involved with an " importer " ( Marlon Brando ) who turns out to be a Mafia kingpin . This is probably the only opportunity you will ever get to see Marlon Brando ( whose ego is as large as his stomach ) poke fun at his own image , which was created back in 1972 with " The Godfather . " Here Brando essentially plays Don Vito Corlone , and everyone knows it , and it works . Sometimes it's like watching a comedy sequel to the trilogy . My only wish ? That Robert De Niro had appeared in a small cameo . ( Trivia note : De Niro and Brando are the only two actors to ever achieve Oscars for playing the same characters . ) Also , Bruno Kirby is in this . Bruno Kirby was in " The Godfather Part II , " which starred Robert De Niro as Vito Corlone , who Brando played in the original . Talk about coincidental links . stars . - John Ulmer
Clever , witty and funny	James L . Brook is one of those directors who always seems to take a quirky look at life . He isn't only the producer for " The Simpsons , " he has some classic comedies under his belt - - " Broadcast News " is one of them . Although it doesn't match his later effort " As Good As It Gets , " " Broadcast News " is still a very clever , funny and witty movie about a television broadcasting station and all the problems they suffer . There's a great comedic sequence of physical humor where Joan Cusack is running around the building trying to rush a news tape to the editing room in a matter of mere minutes before it is to be broadcast live on TV . This isn't only very truthful in terms of how hectic broadcasting stations are operated , but also a skillful and honest portrayal of human beings . A low-key , subtle movie with good acting ( especially from Hurt , who I don't always like so much ) and apt direction .
Visually dazzling	" Moulin Rouge ! " created so much hype in 2001 I'm still surprised I never got around to seeing it . Although Nicole Kidman was already famous , this was one of her first major successes after her split from hubbie Tom Cruise - the fact that it became such a global phenomenon only sparked more tabloid crap - " Kidman Bigger Than Cruise " and the likes . This only fueled the popularity of the movie and it became something of a cultural sensation . You couldn't go anywhere without hearing about it . Four years later and the noise has settled . I finally got around to watching the movie on television and left my expectations at the door . As such , I was pleasantly surprised by just how fun the movie actually is - visually it's a feast for the eyes , packed with dazzling extravagance . Director Baz Luhrmann ( " Romeo + Juliet " ) expands upon his directorial flair and theatrics - this comes across as somewhat of a sequel to his Shakespeare remake . ( Indeed , the modern soundtrack compliments it nicely . ) The story is kind of nostalgic - a worker at France's " Moulin Rouge " , played by Nicole Kidman , falls in love with a poet ( Ewan McGregor ) . They are not allowed to be together but they cannot resist their feelings for each other . " Moulin Rouge " isn't a perfect film but the plot is fairly interesting , the characters are likable , the songs are wonderful and visually it's on the scale of a Gilliam film - magical and huge . I would never say it's a " great " movie but I would recommend it .
The first five or ten minutes had me falling out of my seat in laughter .	The first five or ten minutes of " Team America : World Police " had me falling out of my seat in laughter . Tears were streaming down my face and I couldn't stop . It opens with an attack on terrorists in France , a clear parody of the overzealous American politics of the time ; ending with Paris being destroyed and the Team America crew naively praising themselves whilst the natives of the area watch their houses burn to the ground . The best part of this sequence has to be the silly , dramatic music that plays when the camera zooms in on Osama Bin Laden - carrying a nuclear missile around in a case in central Paris , making an exchange with men in turbans . It's a hilarious parody of the stereotypes we label people with , including the nearby French ( all wearing their hats , walking poodles , with French music in the background ) . Then there's the part where the female Team America member bombs the Louvre , destroying the Mona Lisa therein . I just couldn't stop laughing . It was almost embarrassing , because no one else in the theater was . After that , the film sort of suffers . " AIDS " is a song that is alright but lacks the controversy of " Uncle ka " from " South Park : Bigger , Longer & Uncut . " It's not quite as absurd or funny but manages to be entertaining and silly enough . It just seems like Matt and Trey are trying a bit too hard to follow-up " Uncle " with another raunchy song , and it's not quite as successful . The whole puppet angle is funny at first but wears thin quick . Thankfully Matt and Trey realize this and move on to other material . To be honest for the rest of the duration of the movie I didn't laugh a whole lot . There were a few scenes that were hilarious , but long segments where I wasn't even chuckling ; not a good sign , really . However , the film as a whole consistently amused me , even when I wasn't guffawing . It's interesting to note that the critics who loved " South Park " are slamming this , and I do think it has a great deal to do with the fact that Trey and Matt are bashing liberals AND conservatives , something rare in a Hollywood film . They poke fun at Sean Penn , Michael Moore , George Clooney , Matt Damon , Susan Sarandon , and others . It's not always as funny as it is refreshing . It's not every day you see Sean Penn so mercilessly rampaged in a movie starring a group of puppets controlled by strings . " Team America " isn't up to par with " South Park : B , L & U " and isn't consistently laugh-out-loud funny , but it IS consistently amusing and nice to see everyone being targeted instead of the select few . I would recommend this to anyone who can savor some sharp political satire . And puppet sex .
Sustained my interest throughout	Roy ( Nicolas Cage ) has some problems . He suffers from obsessive-compulsive disorder , panic attacks , and gets totally hysterical when people leave doors open , don't take off their shoes , get mud on his carpet , etc . He takes pills for the many problems , but he accidentally knocked them down the garbage disposal and is a big frantic mess now , complete with nervous ticks of the face and exclamations of " mmm . . . " at the end of his sentences . That's a problem that severely interferes with his job as a con artist . He's not a con man , he's not a rip-off man , he's a con artist , with added emphasis on the " artist " part . He views his job as a beauty , a sort of majestic way of expressing himself , but not really , that's a lie , it's just something that makes him sleep better at night . He hates his job because it makes him feel dirty . It's not fun ripping off old people or fat people , but he is a high school drop out , how else can he get a decent paying job ? His partner , Frank Mercer ( Sam Rockwell ) , is a bit more at ease than Roy . He doesn't seem to mind his job all that much . Roy , on the other hand , is turning into a complete nut , and after going to a recommended psychiatrist , he musters up the courage to confront his 14-year-old daughter , Angela ( Alison Lohman ) , who is eager to escape her controlling mother and check out her long-lost big pop . The film has a lot of different stories going on - - the worry-wart who learns to put aside his nervous ticks , the long-lost father who reunites with his daughter , and the con artist who tries to give it up for a normal life . They all succeed as a story , but the film's only flaw is its wandering , which goes on far too long . Who cares ( and I mean that as a statement , not a question ) . The film is one of the great entertainments of the year . It has twists , turns , and a big streak of enjoyability running through it . Nicolas Cage is on a winning streak . First 2002's Oscar-winning " Adaptation , " now this ( rumored to be entered into the Oscar race for 2004 ) . Who would'a thunk it ? Sam Rockwell ( " Confessions of a Dangerous Mind " ) continues to impress , while Alison Lohman ( a 20-something actress playing a teenager ) shines and convincingly portrays exactly what the character needs . Ridley Scott ( " Alien " ) , the infamous British director , uses some great camera techniques here - - filmed in a blue shade with lots of different camera flashes , he subtly forces the audience into Roy's head , especially during sequences when Roy is having little breakdowns and the people and objects around him start moving at warp-speed . I'll admit that I'm a big fan of con man movies because I find them amusing . But " Matchstick Men " is not really a con man movie - - it's a movie about a con man who has to cope with his job and private life . And a movie about a con man who finds he has a daughter . And a con man who gets conned . It's all enjoyable , and though the film is long , I never felt very bored by it at all - - it sustained my interest throughout its running time . That's rarer and rarer nowadays .
A fun summer blockbuster	In 2003 , Ang Lee's Hulk was released to commercial success ? breaking box office records for a June opening and smashing its way to the top of the box office , it outperformed many analysts ' expectations and was well on its way to becoming one of the biggest comic book films ever produced . Then , of course , the negative word of mouth caught up with it ? and by the following weekend it had dropped a colossal 60 % . It was quickly left floundering in theaters and only turned a profit thanks to worldwide intake . Marvel wasn't quite sure what to do ? the film's huge opening indicated an inherent interest in the material , but fans obviously didn't enjoy what they were seeing . Ang Lee's film was , to be fair , admirable in its scope and ambitions ? it wasn't your typical comic book action film . But , at the end of the day , most audiences don't want two-and-a-half hour psychological explorations when they go to see a Hulk movie ? they want big battle scenes and lots of bruising action , both of which the 2003 Hulk ? for the most part ? failed to deliver . I count myself among the masses that disliked the 2003 film ? not because I was a fan of the comics and not because I was disappointed in its treatment of the material ; not even because I thought it was boring , necessarily . I simply thought in spite of its aim to be an intelligent movie , it was quite silly and pretentious ? the end fight sequence was appalling , for example . It was a film containing moments of genius cornered by lots of unnecessary scenes and scenery chewing by Nick Nolte . So , with this in mind , the ultimate question is : does the 2008 Hulk deliver on its promise to be bigger , bolder and better ? Well , in short , yes ? it's still not a great film by any means , and it has its fair share of flaws ( most notably the last twenty minutes which , despite a cool battle sequence , go overboard in their destruction ) , but at the end of the day , it's an entertaining summer blockbuster with a cast that's probably a little better than it deserves . Edward Norton would have been my last choice as Bruce Banner ? not because I think he's bad for the role , but rather because he is such an unexpected choice . Renowned for his anti-mainstream approach to film-making and his artistic credibility , his placement in a comic book franchise sequel / reboot is puzzling to say the least ? it would be like Christian Bale taking on a role in a Batman or Terminator movie ( oh , wait ) . The thing is : Norton delivers a solid performance . I'm not sure if it's better than what Eric Bana tried to achieve ( I'd say Bana's performance is a bit more complex overall ) , but I think that's partly due to the film's length and also because it's so action-packed . For what it's worth , Norton tries his best to inject some humanity into the character ; the whole Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde aspect is more prevalent here than in the 2003 film . In that movie , Bana's Banner admitted to enjoying the transformation into the Hulk ; in 2008 , Norton is struggling to conceal and control it . William Hurt replaces Sam Elliot as General Ross , the man responsible for Bruce's predicament . The movie is essentially a cat-and-mouse game , with Banner hiding away in Brazil for over a year , until Ross finally discovers his location ? prompting Bruce to flee back to North America in a last-ditch effort to find a cure for his " disease . " He reunites with Ross ' daughter , Betty ( Liv Tyler ) , and finds himself at odds with an overzealous combatant named Blonsky ( played by Tim Roth ) , who eventually transforms into Abomination . My problems with the film are most present in the latter half . The first 45 minutes is a lot of fun and is rather cleverly made ? the fight scenes are engaging and Roth establishes his anti-hero villain . But suddenly halfway through the movie , Blonsky turns into an unmotivated cliché of a bad guy , and by the end of the film you lose all care and understanding for the character . Once he transforms into the Abomination and goes on a citywide rampage in search of an equal foe ( in this case , the Hulk ) , his reasons are puzzling . This is where the film truly falls apart , because suddenly General Ross is responsible for millions of dollars ' worth of damage and civilian casualties ( without spoiling any surprises , he is responsible for Blonsky's transformation ) , and he's flying around in an Army helicopter following the city's destruction , but nobody really seems to care . He never loses his job , even after he tears up a college campus in search of the Hulk earlier in the film . It may be pointless to criticize a comic book film for lapses in logic , but since the film strives for a sense of realism in its early scenes , the switch to excess halfway through is a bit disheartening . The 2003 Hulk had the same problems , incidentally ? I'm wondering if it's a flaw of the comic book or just the character itself ; perhaps it's too hard to retain realism when you've got a 12-foot giant green dude destroying everything in sight . If I'm being too critical , it's only because I enjoyed the film and regretted these aspects . At the end of the day , it's a fun , entertaining summer blockbuster - - and that's really all it needed to be .
Devilsihly dark remake is a fresh breath of air . . .	Crispin Glover gives a splendidly dark and evil performance in " Willard , " a performance that creeps you out more than any idea of killer rats ever will . The movie feels like a Tim Burton Lite , and a few times throughout the film I came close to imagining how Tim Burton would have directed the film . He probably would have gotten Johnny Depp for Willard , though , and I'm not sure if Depp would have been able to pull it off as well as Glover , who has always been a very strange character , even back when he played the shy and quirky George McFly in " Back to the Future . " If Crispin was odd in " Back to the Future , " then he's part of the Manson family here . It seems to be an almost tailor-made role , one fit just for him . His character , Willard , is a mix between Anthony Perkins ' Norman Bates and Adam Sandler's Barry Anderson from " Punch-Drunk Love . " I half-expected to see Willard's mother jump out in front of the screen at some point in the film , only for " her " to be Willard . Anyone familiar with the seventies should remember " Willard , " and perhaps even its sequel , " Ben . " I didn't know quite what to expect walking into " Willard , " as I had never seen the original . It is a very dark and creepy movie , perhaps not for everyone , but I enjoyed it . It's quirky . It's creepy . It's dark and brooding . And it has a sly sinister side to it . When Willard retreats to his basement every night to train a gang of rats to carry out his evil deeds it's not really scary but rather strange in execution . Given another director this could have been another summer horror flick like " Jeepers Creepers 2 , " but it turned out to be a bit more than a scary movie - it's more of a freaky movie . Willard ( Glover ) is a grown man who lives in a large , creepy home with his bitter old mother . He cares for her and goes to work to help support her , where he works for " Mr . Martin , " a gruff old guy who claims that the reason he drives a Mercedes is for the company's benefit . He relentlessly picks on Willard , who bites his tongue in return and counts to ten . Extremely lonely , Willard retreats into his mother's basement one night to try to get rid of some rodent infestation . Once there , he finds that he has caught a smart little white rat in one of his traps , which he frees from the sticky paper and names Socrates ( because the rat is smart ) . Soon he finds that Socrates can understand him , as do all the other rats . He also realizes that the rats will do whatever he wants , whether it be attacking Martin's Mercedes or eating Martin to death . And so he uses them at his psychopathic will ; that is , except for a very large rat named Ben , who is about the size of a small dog . Ben is smart , and tries to win Willard's attention , but Willard ignores Ben ( one can understand why ) , and pays all the attention to Socrates . Ben doesn't like this , and so he starts commanding the gang of rats against Willard . The film ends in a strange showdown between rats and man , to say the least . I used to have a little white rat just like Socrates , which I named Socrates , and I used to have another big , black rat , which I named Ben . ( Yes , I named them after the rats from the old film . ) Rats are kind little creatures but you get the idea that they are a very smart species , always scheming . Watching the " real " Ben from " Willard " is funny , because as he sits there scheming it is in all truth very honest - rats are smarter than they seem . Willard seems to have a psychic connection between the rats . It's like the story of the dog that followed his master all the way across the Atlantic ocean , running up to him in the middle of a WWII battlefield . Some experts say that animals have boundaries with their masters that they can somehow feel , relate to or are attached to psychically . By charming Socrates , it seems that Willard opened up a sort of psychic connection between the rats , and the way he carries them around on his shoulder , and says to Socrates , " You are the only friend I've ever had , " is strangely disturbing . I wasn't sure what to expect going into " Willard , " and I'm still not sure if the film used up all the potential it had . They could have spent more time focusing on Willard's development into a psychopath , more time on what the rats did , more time showing the audience that Willard is the bad guy . It seems that they go wishy-washy - are we supposed to root for Willard or not ? I don't really know , but I enjoyed the movie . It's not an incredible achievment in any regard , and I left feeling a little empty but I'm glad I saw it . stars - John Ulmer
Fascinating look at early Lynch	For Lynch fans in particular , I'm sure this would be an amazing treat . Essentially a collection of Lynch's early student films , it also features newly-recorded ( 2002 ) introductions from Lynch himself as he explains his feelings for each piece of his work . He also provides some trivia tidbits and anecdotes . These are all very bizarre , some better than others . The strangest is probably " The Amputee , " which was filmed to test the difference between two different kinds of stock footage supposedly . Lynch plays a nurse who walks into a room and replaces an amputee woman's leg wrap . Blood begins to spurt everywhere almost comically and as the nurse begins to panic she remains totally unaware of his presence . Very weird . They're not all very good but they're interesting merely for the sake of being an insightful look at a great director's early work . Recommended - and highly recommended to Lynch fans .
Good drama that tries a bit too hard in places	This is a fine film . Entertaining , well-acted , but not flawless . It tries a bit too hard to be an Oscar contender when in all actuality it's not high-caliber material . Its average on IMDb is closer to the score I'd give it than some of the critics who seemed to praise it when it came out . And although Angelina Jolie gives her best performance , it's still not Oscar-quality , and it's always going to be hard to buy an insane mental patient with huge fake lips and breasts . But oh well , that's Hollywood . Winona Ryder fits the part well . She's always given off dark vibes in all her films , ranging from " Beetlejuice " to " Edward Scissorhands , " and gives the impression that she's fascinated by death . So , a bit of wise casting there . I am not by any means a fan of Ryder's work ( even here she is grating ) , but at least in " Girl , Interrupted , " that's sort of the point . Overall this is a good movie if you're looking for entertainment ( based on ) a true story . It's not a great movie and I don't think it deserved any Oscars but the acting is still rather good and it holds your interest .
One of the best sequels ever made . I'm not joking .	I have to hand it to Sylvester Stallone ? he did the impossible with ' Rocky II ' and made a successful follow-up to ' Rocky , ' winner of the 1976 Best Picture Academy Award . Some argue that ' Taxi Driver ' ( also nominated ) deserved the Oscar more . I'm not so sure . ' Rocky ' came along at just the right time ? it was an uplifting story and people needed that back then . Now , ' Taxi Driver ' is usually considered the superior of the two ? but they're entirely different and , in my opinion ( and it's a rare one ) , ' Rocky ' is just as good ? but in a different way . They're both great films , and I'm not saying that ' Taxi Driver ' shouldn't have won ? but I'm not necessarily saying it should have , either . ' Rocky's ' achievement is monumental and it is one of the greatest films ever made . To say it's ' not as good ' merely because it is more optimistic is nonsense . So what's so great about ' Rocky II ' and why is it generally underrated ? ( Its average user score right now on the Internet Movie Database - - with over 8 , 000 votes - - is a measly , compared to the original's 7 . 7 ) Because it maintains the focus of the first film , and continues the story rather well . A story that didn't really need to be continued , per se , but nevertheless formed the foundation of one of the greatest film franchises of all time . That's right ? many people hate the ' Rocky ' sequels , but apart from ' Part V , ' they're all surprisingly entertaining ? and , more importantly , well made . I like them ; they entertain me , and I think they all serve their purpose . What's particularly interesting about ' Rocky II ' is that apart from repeating the central theme of fighting Apollo Creed ( Carl Weathers ) , Rocky ( Stallone ) goes through a character arc here that many sequels totally ignore ? we see the after-effects of his fight , and him struggling to adapt to the ' New Life . ' Rocky is not a smart person . But he is one of cinema's deepest characters . Stallone ( who wrote all the scripts and directed three of the sequels ) succeeds at evolving Rocky's self-confidence . After winning a small fortune from his famous fight with Creed , he goes out on an impulsive shopping spree , buying a cool car , a new leather jacket ( with a tiger ? the beast with the ' eye ' that Rocky re-captures in ' Part III ' ? printed on the back ) , and a new luxurious apartment for him and his wife Adrienne ( Talia Shire ) . The problem is that Rocky soon runs out of money . His happy-go-lucky personality crashes when he is faced with the prospect of losing it all . He promised Adrienne never to fight again , and keeps his word by trying to get a ' real ' job at the meat-processing factory ( the same one he trained at in the original film ) . However due to staff cut backs he is fired and soon realizes that he was born for one reason : To fight . Meanwhile , Apollo is eager to take on ' The Italian Stallion ' again ? to prove he isn't the coward that criticizers are implying he is . He entices Rocky back into the ring for a final match ? and to say that the outcome is satisfactory is an understatement . Most people seem to forget that Stallone is almost solely responsible for the entire success of ' Rocky ' as a whole . He came up with the idea , wrote a script , fought to get it made , fought to become the leading star , and literally fought to get in shape . All of this fighting paid off ? and it continued to pay off as he kept on cranking out all the sequels . Indeed , the ' Rocky ' legacy is often poked fun at because it is the typical endless Hollywood moneymaking franchise . But ' Rocky II ' and ' III ' ( more so than the other two sequels ) have guts , power , determination and focus ? they've got the so-called ' Eye of the Tiger ' and I can't really say that I agree with anyone who says these movies are worthless . They aren't masterpieces but they certainly aren't trash , either . I give ' Rocky II ' a hearty recommendation ? it's a truly solid sequel that surprises us right when we expect to be disappointed .
Walt Disney is born	This was supposedly the short film that made Walt Disney famous . It was screened on Disney Channel's " Late Night Vault " program and began with an introduction . Apparently Alice , played by Virginia Davis ( who would play Alice in many other shorts later on ) , was the basis for other Disney cartoons . She was the young actress that made Disney famous . The movie begins with Alice visiting an animation studio where she is given samples of drawings and seems enthralled by them . Later that night while she is asleep she visits a land of animation in her dream and interacts with all kinds of cartoon animals and people . " Alice's Wonderland " was the first of its kind and revolutionized the whole concept of film and animation as mediums . Its influence would be felt for years , through " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " to " Space Jam . " In terms of entertainment this isn't the best - I'm giving it a based on a few factors , mainly I'm taking into consideration its effect and importance . Graded against today's animation it is , of course , very dated . But it had to all start somewhere .
Clever and fun but little more than a blockbuster	Chicago , circa 2035 : there are four humans to every robot , and Det . Spooner ( Will Smith ) has a strong dislike for them . Due to the " Three Laws " of Robotics , no robot can directly or indirectly harm a human being - but due to a past incident involving a robot , Spooner finds it hard to consider them totally harmless . After a robotics engineer ( James Cromwell ) leaps to his death from a skyscraper , Spooner is called in to investigate - and stumbles upon the frightening prospect that a robot may be the murder suspect . If you've seen the ads for this movie you know what is going to happen . It tries to deliver some surprises within its running time but the final " twist " is hardly shocking ( at least not on the same level as a Verbal Kint-style surprise ) and the movie is filled with many loud action sequences that place it in the blockbuster category . This isn't too bad . I really enjoyed the movie . It's not great , but it's certainly not bad at all and does what it should : entertain . I expected little from the film after viewing the appalling trailer , and was pleasantly surprised . However , I do feel that had the project been touched up by a better writer than Akiva Goldsman , and had a better cast ( including director ) been assembled , it might have been better in a deeper way . I do enjoy Proyas ' direction but it seems a bit superficial at times and the marketing plugs and everything seem to combine , resulting in a schmaltzy overtone to the film that seems heavily reliant on Hollywood rather than brain power . Will Smith really needs to stop playing these tough guy roles , because he's not exceptional at them . He fits the part fairly well but Spooner is a bit too sarcastic and flippant to find totally likable - he treads a thin line and passes over it a few times , mainly because he doesn't really seem to have a purpose for being as obnoxious as he is . It reminds me of Eddie Murphy's Axl Foley from " Beverly Hills Cop " ( and not because they're both black actors ! ) - he is a loudmouth tough guy clichÃ ? Â© who no one believes , etc . But Murphy was 10x better at playing this sort of thing because his character was actually a great deal more likable . Also , the movie is too heavy on its themes - its source material is strong and that's why I believe a more talented cast might have made a truly marvelous science-fiction film , but Alex Proyas merely tries to take the themes and insert them in a mainstream Hollywood blockbuster - not a pretty outcome . The whole racist overtones surrounding the movie are certainly prescient , but will suffocate many viewers looking for subtle viewing . I seem to be bashing the film , but I don't mean to . It's a lot of fun , delivered more than I ever expected . The CGI are some of the best I've ever seen ( and I'm not a fan of computer animation ) , and overall it's just a really fun film and will entertain you throughout - as long as you're not expecting too much depth .
A hard comment . . .	I'm not exactly sure what to say . Contact was good but weird . In different parts I'd start getting caught in the plot but then it would slow down again . What was really odd was the end . I've seen things like this done before where they want it to really symbolize something instead of boring the audience and presenting it right in their face without the audience being able to make their own conclusion . It mad me think a little and to tell you the truth I thought the end came out stupid . To me it meantSPOILERS AHEAD that after traveling through the wormhole she didn't travel into somewhere in our solar system , or even another galaxie in space . I think she traveled to another dimesnion and somehow this dimension to me seemed a bit dumb . I really don't want to use any more brain cells on this one but I didn't like the ending . Other than that the movie was pretty good . stars
Were You Expecting the Original ?	Die Hard 2 : Die HarderContinuing the events in the life of John McClane , ' Die Hard 2 : Die Harder ' features a band of terrorists taking over Dulles Airport . And yippee-kai-yay , look who's here . John McClane ! And guess who is the only man who can stop the terrorists ? John McClane ! And guess whose wife is on a plane that can't land at Dulles until the terrorists get what they want ? Yep ! John McClane ! Enter John McClane , who must find a way to take out all the terrorists before it's too late . Using his Zippo lighter and a pistol , he gets to take down about nine thousand baddies . Wow . Good marketing for Zippo : ' Not only can it stop a bullet . it can ACT like a bullet , too ! ' People were hard on this movie when it came out . And I can certainly understand why . Anything the makers of the first film should have learned is that their formula worked before . One man . Trapped in a building . Hostages . Let's film ! But in part II they ignored all this to deliver some big explosions . Not only is John McClane NOT in an enclosed area ( unless you count a huge airport as enclosed ) , and not only do they have an un-loathed bad guy ( unlike the first where we loved to hate the bad guy ) , but none of the original formula is there . The film retreats into trampled terrain - ' Rambo ' terrain . John McClane is no loner an intelligent and sympathetic character . He's a lean , mean , fighting machine that blows up everything in his path . But then again , considering it as an action film and not a sequel to one of the best of its genre , the film ain't all that bad . There ARE some great explosions , including McClane getting trapped in a jet fighter and bad guys throwing grenades in . What to do ? Why , launch the ejection seat , of course . Next thing we see is ol ' John sailing through the air , saying , ' Oh Sh - - - - - - - ! ' And the very end is nothing short of adrenaline-pumped , pyrotechnic action spectacular . The Zippo lighter comes in handy yet once again for John . KABOOM ! All in all , ' DH2 : Die Harder ' is definitely worth seeing . It's not worth going out of your way to see , but it's worth it if you can find it . Just don't expect anything near the original . stars - just for that ending . Boy , was it great . BTW : Look out for ' Die Hard 4 : Die Hardest ' coming out in 2004 . Really . I mean it . Bruce Willis and Samuel L . Jackson are already signed on . Visit IMDb . com for more information on the sequel . I'm just wondering what the fifth will be called . How about , ' Die Hard 5 : Die Hard , Harder , and / or Hardest ' ? Or what about ' Die Hard 5 : Burn , Baby , Burn . ' The possibilites are endless .
Roll Over , Beethoven !	" Beethoven " isn't a great family film , but it is surprisingly sweet and amusing . It's one of those films that is strangely attracting , though you can't really understand why . I think a lot has been built up on this film just because there were some sequel spin-offs that were more than horrible . ( The 3rd and 4th sequels with Judge Reinhold were some of the worst attempts at comedy . Ever . ) But the original was a nice , family-friendly film that accomplishes what it promised . Charles Grodin plays George Newton : Family man , businessman , NOT a doggy-man . But things change rapidly when a runaway Saint Bernard named Beethoven comes to the Newton residence . Newton's children immediately get attached to the animal , but Grodin's character doesn't exactly like the fact of a big ol ' slobbering dog being around his house . So there are some gags as Grodin gets mad at Beethoven for certain things he does throughout the film . But then , evil animal vet Dean Jones tries to take Beethoven , and Newton decides to fight back for his family and bring the doggy back home . " Beethoven " isn't anything very original , and it isn't anything very memorable , nor is it excellent quality gags . But it's a surprisingly pleasant and good-natured family film that doesn't resort to crude humor or language like other so-called " family films " out there . Ivan Reitman , who has brought us " Ghostbusters , " " Kindergarten Cop , " and " Stripes " co-produced this film . He's a talented director , even if he sometimes makes average films . The thing about his films are , that even when they're average they are still pretty funny and strangely watchable . And though I'm not sure what all a producer does on a film , I think he probably did a good job with something on this film . : ) Charles Grodin is one of those actors that I've always liked because he seems very down-to-earth and regular . He is a subtle comedian that never goes OTT and doesn't come off like ANOTHER Jerry Lewis-Jim Carrey hybrid . " Beethoven " isn't anything great , but it's strangely likable and enjoyable . When compared to other so-called family films , it's pretty nice . It doesn't skimp on the gags ( even if they're not very great ) and it never turns stupid ( like the 3rd and 4th film ) . All in all , " Beethoven " delivers what it promises , and it does it pretty nicely . stars - John Ulmer
Very good but inferior to the others	The third parts of trilogies tend to be inferior to their predecessors . This applies to " Alien , " " Back to the Future , " " The Matrix , " " Austin Powers , " " Lethal Weapon , " " Mad Max " and other film series . Then there are the few that come along - - such as " The Good , the Bad and the Ugly " - - that are actually the best of all three . Unfortunately " Star Wars : Episode VI - The Return of the Jedi " fits into the former category - - it is far inferior to its predecessors . I've always enjoyed " The Empire Strikes Back " the most of all three , and " Return of the Jedi " the least . It is arguably one of the earliest signs of things to come for writer George Lucas , who employs a band of child-friendly ( and marketable ) " Eewoks " to join Luke Skywalker on his quest against the Empire in this installment . After " Return of the Jedi , " Lucas never really got back on track , and particularly with the recent " Star Wars " prequels it is apparent he has sold out and lost grasp of how to make a good film . The Eewoks aren't very far off from Jar-Jar Binks . That's not to say " Return of the Jedi " is a bad film - - in fact it's very good . But we all remember , " May the force be with you " from " Star Wars , " and " I am your father ! " from " The Empire Strikes Back . " There's nothing particularly memorable here - - it is not one of the greatest films ever made , just a very satisfying ( if occasionally goofy ) conclusion to the trilogy . It is not as bad as " The Matrix Revolutions , " for sure . Han Solo ( Harrison Ford ) , now cryogenically frozen by Jabba the Hutt , is being held captive . Luke Skywalker ( Mark Hamill ) and Princess Leia ( Carrie Fisher ) both try to rescue Han , to no avail , and Luke - - now a Jedi - - ends up being thrown into the pit of a dangerous beast , which he defeats to the surprise of Jabba . Jabba then decides to have all of them murdered , but Luke and co . make a daring escape with the help of all his pals - - C-3PO , R2-D2 , Leia and Chewbacca - - and eventually end up on a faraway planet where they arrive under the car of the friendly Eewoks , who help them with their attack against The Empire's new and improved Death Star . Luke uncovers a startling secret about Leia , revisits the dying Yoda , and eventually comes face-to-face with Vader , where he is faced with a bit of a moral dilemma after the Emperor decides that Luke would be a worthy addition to their army . It's pointless divulging into the plot in-depth basically because everyone has already seen these movies . What can be discussed are the special effects , performances , and general plot of the film , as that is what most people will take from this film - - those looking for meaningful dialogue should look elsewhere . Released in 1983 , six years after the original , special effects had evolved even more - - with a larger budget to expand upon director Richard Marquand tops off both prior films in terms of SF / X . There's an exciting chase sequence , lots of hyper-speed battles , space ship exteriors and " lightsaber " fights - - enough to wet the appetite of anyone looking for mere action . Unfortunately what " Return of the Jedi " lacks is originality - - " Star Wars " was unique when it came out , recycling old storytelling clichés in a modern update ; the sequel was very dark and impressive with arguably the best performances of all three films ; the only thing to look for here is Luke's sudden evolution from Jedi trainee to Jedi master . Oh , and the final showdown , which is still impressive , even by today's efforts . All in all , " Return of the Jedi " is not on the same level as its predecessors but it is an exciting movie that manages to satisfyingly end the series on a high note . About those prequels . . . well , they're just unfortunate .
Entertaining if unlikely thriller	" Red Eye " is about a young woman named Lisa ( played by Rachel McAdams ) who boards a flight and finds herself seated next to a charming man named Jack Rippner ( Cillian Murphy ) . I knew little about the movie from its original trailer , which passed itself off as a supernatural horror film ( with the glowing red eyes and title and Wes Craven being attached to it ) , however the movie is a surprisingly human and down-to-earth thriller - a bit like an old Hitchcock movie , it doesn't take itself too seriously , is well-directed , intelligent and really zips along at breakneck speed . The performances are all good and Murphy ( fresh off Batman Begins ) plays yet another eerie , creepy bad guy . Rachel McAdams ( Wedding Crashers ) is a revelation and manages to do exactly what so many actresses fail at in thrillers these days - come across as realistic . The movie is not brilliant by any means , but isn't pretentious or cloying . It's quick , it's clever , and it's never insulting . It is classy , has good-direction and really surprising performances . I wouldn't want to watch it all the time but it was a nice distraction from the noise of this year's blockbusters , being the rare , timid - but equally exciting - white-knuckle thriller .
Fans of the show will enjoy it , but I think it could have been raunchier .	I'm not a huge fan of " Family Guy " ( which airs on the Fox network ) primarily because I never get a chance to watch it . The few episodes I have seen amused and entertained me , and I could understand the cult appeal - it's got everything cult shows need to succeed . When I heard a movie was coming out - and an unrated movie , nonetheless - I was rather interested because " Family Guy " is known on television for its raunchy pushing of boundaries in terms of content ( a family guide listed it as one of the most detestable shows on TV with themes of incest , bestiality , prostitution , sex , drugs , violence , etc . - their list made me laugh so much , it pretty much listed everything ! ) . Anyway , the so-called " Unrated " edition of " Stewie Griffin - The Untold Story " is not all that raunchy . . . at all . If you've seen the TV show , this is basically just three episodes with a few swear words thrown in . Frankly , I'm glad they didn't go over-the-top with their limitless potential ( there isn't frequent cursing , sex , nudity , etc . ) BUT . . . I think it could have used more of an edge - there are only a few F-words in the entire movie and I was wondering why on earth they even bothered marketing it as " Unrated " ; wow , a cartoon with swearing , that's so unheard of ! Cough " South Park : BL & U " cough The film follows the adventures of misunderstood baby genius Stewie Griffin to find his father in San Francisco . He and Brian the talking dog team up with the constantly sexually-driven next door neighbor on his " Cross-Country " ( spelled without an " o " ) quest to " bang a woman in each state . " Stewie and Brian's mishaps elevate into a huge mess and meanwhile Peter has trials and tribulations of his own , beginning with becoming the presenter at a news station as part of a " You Know What Grinds My Gears ? " segment . Let me make something clear - I liked this . Like the TV show , it entertained me . I'm not going to take the easy route and be a hater like other " Simpsons " fans - I know they all hate " Family Guy " and Trey Parker and Matt Stone said it's " garbage " and insulting to them when " FG " even mentions them , but I think as far as animated shows go it is rather entertaining . I just think the film could have been more daring , especially given its Unrated tag , which in this case seems more like a lazy marketing scheme ( like all those other Fox " unrated " re-releases such as AvP , Man on Fire , I Robot , etc . ) . Bottom line : If you like the TV show , you'll like this , maybe really like it . If you don't like the TV show . . . stay away .
" Chicago " Makes Good - But the Best Thing About This is Martin !	Steve Martin's insults made this presentation ! In light of the recent war in Iraq , many celebrities dressed down and even did not show up . But Steve Martin made us all forget when he started randomly insulting actors and actresses in the audience . Some of his lines made the actors in the audience literally gasp in astonishment . Here are some of quotes from his hosting performance : " Movie stars can be straight ( camera on Harrison Ford ) , or gay ( camera on Jack Nicholson ) . " " He got to go in a hot tub with Kathy Bates - but who hasn't ? " " And Queen Latifah - or as I like to call her , ' sequel money ' ! " Martin was the best thing about this otherwise out-of-place Oscars that just seemed too watered down . I think it's important to respect those fighting for America and England , but as they say , " The show must go on , " and this show BARELY went on .
I liked it	I saw this ages ago when I was younger and could never remember the title , until one day I was scrolling through John Candy's film credits on IMDb and noticed an entry named " Once Upon a Crime . . . " . Something rang a bell and I clicked on it , and after reading the plot summary it brought back a lot of memories . I've found it has aged pretty well despite the fact that it is not by any means a " great " comedy . It is , however , rather enjoyable and is a good riff on a Hitchcock formula of mistaken identity and worldwide thrills . The movie has a large cast of characters , amongst them an American couple who find a woman's dog while vacationing in Europe and decide to return it to her for a reward - only to find her dead body upon arrival . From there the plot gets crazier and sillier and they go on the run after the police think they are the killers . Kind of a mix between " It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World " and a lighter Hitchcock feature , this was directed by Eugene Levy and he managed to get some of his good friends - such as John Candy - to star in it . The movie is mostly engaging due to its cast , and the ending has a funny little twist that isn't totally unpredictable but also is kind of unexpected .
Very different , original , and excellently made .	THE BIG KAHUINA lives up to its name . First off , unlike many comedies where a bunch of people are thrown together just to bounce jokes off each other , the Big Kahuna shows us the 3 characters feelings , inner emotions , and past . THEN AND THEN ONLY can we fully appreciate the jokes that are spoken . We feel like we truly get to know these people . We see excellent character interaction , and all the actors are WONDERFUL in this film . DeVito portrays his character excellently , but my favorite was Kevin Spacey's character . He fit RIGHT into the role of his character . I think THE BIG KAHUNA is also the only film I've ever seen with only 3 cast members ( 4 if you count the bell boy ) . Although low-budget , THE BIG KAHUNA delivers a massive blow to all those cheap , crude comedies out there today . I'm very satisfied and pleased I had the honor of seeing one of the best films of 1999 . stars - - JOHN ULMER
For anyone who's ever had a vindictive boss - or a job at all , for that matter	" Swimming with Sharks " was made right around the time Kevin Spacey was becoming a rising star - his name was becoming well known enough that he could help finance low budget movies . Along with " The Usual Suspects " he helped " Swimming with Sharks " get off the ground , and now ten years later ( it was given wide release in 1995 ) it still holds up well as a very , very dark comedy . In fact , comedy isn't the right word . This shouldn't really be classified as comedy . It's not that funny . It works better as a dark satire - I expected something like " War of the Roses , " but instead I got a Tarantino version of " Office Space " ( complete with torture , violence , revenge and mayhem ! ) . Frank Whaley stars as Guy , a typical nobody who dreams of being a somebody . ( Even his name confines him to anonymity . ) When he lands a job working for world-famous producer Buddy Ackerman ( Spacey ) , his future looks bright . . . until he realizes what he's in for . Spacey delivers the best performance of the film , yelling , screaming , and throwing hissy fits practically every time he's on screen . But he never pushes the limits . He's always believable as a self-absorbed , ego-maniacal , ruthless producer ; the director claims on the DVD commentary track and documentaries that he based the character and many scenes on actual things that happened to him while he worked for unnamed producers in Hollywood . Joel Silver is rumored to have been the basis for Ackerman . The movie isn't great and never really achieves the amount of laughs I wanted but if you view it as a very dark drama-comedy you're more likely to enjoy it . I still found myself quite entertained and taken aback by how daring and unique this movie actually is - no one can condemn it for resorting to clichés . The ending is a punch in the stomach , I never expected it . Whaley is good at playing the over / underwhelmed everyman and the direction is OK ( if just so ) . The best aspects are the witty script and Kevin Spacey's scene-stealing performance ; together he has good chemistry with Whaley and the movie succeeds based on the actors ' success in their roles .
The Conclusion .	John Hughes has always had a problem with ending his films . It seems he enjoys expanding his slapstick to its fullest extent , but suddenly - right when we're getting comfortable - he realizes he has to end the picture and resolve the conflicts of his characters , so he diverts the course and natural progression his movie and it transforms into an introspective psychology session . Point in fact : " Ferris Bueller's Day Off . " The first half is excellent . Our heroes our introduced , comedy ensues and we have a great deal of fun watching the narrative unfold . The second half - or more appropriately , last third - of the film is not excellent . Suddenly Hughes realizes Bueller's foil , Cameron ( Alan Ruck ) , must confront his father . That Bueller's sister Jeannie ( Jennifer Grey ) must come to terms with her resentment towards her brother . That Ferris must contemplate the meaning of life , marriage and love between himself and his wife-to-be ( Mia Sara ) . It's this type of stuff I can't get into . Look , I really love some of the stuff Hughes has done . He's a very good filmmaker . But he's always had a problem with endings and pretensions . . . the turning point for me in " Ferris Bueller " is when Cameron stares into the oil painting at the museum in Chicago . . . from here onwards Cameron goes into this weird state of comatose ( particularly towards the end ) , Ferris starts talking to us about moving on to college , how Cameron's dad is a jerk , etc . Of course this is a natural conclusion for any film or literary writing - conflict - - > desire - - > outcome . But Hughes ' problem is that his change in progression is too swift - the movie goes from being a light-hearted comedy to this pretentious study of teenage angst in which it takes our selfish Cameron hours to realize he must step up to his father . . . and for what reason ? At what cost ? What truly is the point ? For Ferris , a great future awaits him . He will marry his high school sweetheart , go to college , continue milking friendships for what they're worth . His sister will get a new boyfriend and stop hating her brother . But poor Cameron . . . his revelation at the end of the movie is that he's going to step up to his father and almost certainly face a miserable life ? Yes , it's nice on film to see Cameron " rebel " against his strict father . . . it's a teenage ideal . . . all fathers are evil . But come on already - wrecking a Ferrari and having your character's inspiration be taking the blame for it is a lame ending . I've never liked it . I understand many people do . Somehow , I can see why . As I'm writing this , I have to admit , it doesn't sound quite as pretentious as it comes across as being in the film . One could say the same thing about any teen movie - particularly " Risky Business . " But there's just something about this one . It suffers from that flaw Hughes has had his entire career . He just doesn't really know how to end his film ( he's admitted this before . . . he said in an interview he never likes to end a movie , and that's why his closings always extend with extra footage while the credits scroll down ) . Sometimes he's gotten away with it - " The Breakfast Club " for example . That movie ended with a sudden introspective moment where the kids all got together and examined each other's problems . But it made more sense , given the context . It was justifiable . The ending of " Bueller " is not . I think it's childish and myopic . I do realize I've just repeated myself for about ten straight paragraphs , but that's something that's always bothered me about this film and I had to get it off my chest . What I DO like about it : ( 1 ) Matthew Broderick is hilarious and perfect for the role ( 2 ) The first hour or so is very funny and straightforward comedy ( 3 ) The characters are likable and seem realistic ( 4 ) Jeffrey Jones ' quest to find Ferris is a very strong subplot . . . and so on . It's just a shame , you know , about that ending . . .
Interesting	Interesting documentary about all the different Bond girls over the years , and why they will forever be immortalized . I don't know if this was aired in the States , but I saw it over in the UK and it was interesting as far as these things tend to go .
Not great , but entertaining	I found " Waiting " to be better than most comedies of its kind , and although it is very much a wannabe " Clerks " it still comes across as being quite entertaining . Unfortunately parts of the film go on too long and the juvenile moments - such as the kitchen antics involving the flashing of male genitalia - become stale very fast . Ryan Reynolds plays a smug waiter at a restaurant called Shenanigans where he finds himself with a wide array of co-workers , including Anna Faris of " Scary Movie " fame . Ultimately the movie chronicles a day in the lives of these people and what a pain the profession ( if you can even call it that ) can be . This movie is based on the writer / director's personal experiences as a waiter earlier in his life , and most of it really does happen to some degree . I always remember what a cook at a restaurant told me once - if you saw the kitchen in any place you'd never want to eat out again . The movie has fun with some restaurant in-jokes such as the " five-second rule " of dropping food on the floor and so on and so forth . I thought Reynolds was quite good but the dramatic arc of the story involving a waiter and his decision of whether to leave the job gets tiring . " Clerks " handled the drama better , and even " Clerks " wasn't a perfect comedy . I found most of the better moments to come from the supporting cast - despite his repetitive exposure scenes , Luis Guzman was still hilarious in his role as one of the chefs . Overall , I found this to be entertaining and more than what I expected - but it never quite achieves its full potential , either . If you've ever worked at a restaurant of any kind then you're likely to get some kicks out of this - but don't expect another " Clerks . "
Don't be fooled by the misleading front cover and you'll find it a rewarding experience	I'm a huge fan of Robert De Niro . I've made an effort to hunt down all of his older films ( like Greetings and the awful " Sam's Song " a . k . a . " The Swap " ) and have done pretty well so far - I saw " Born to Win " at a grocery store for six bucks on DVD and since I'd seen it listed on IMDb as one of his early films ( and after making sure it wasn't one of the countless " other titles " for " Sam's Song " ) I purchased it . Much to my surprise ( well , not really , I kinda suspected as much ) the cover was totally deceiving . It features Robert De Niro's face ( from another film , mind you ) , his hand holding a gun . It says , " ROBERT DE NIRO " and " George Segal " in smaller print underneath his name . The tagline on the DVD is something like , " A junkie goes against a cop trying to bring down Mr . Big . " Now , mind you , no one in this film is named Mr . Big , and the junkie ( Segal ) doesn't " go against " the cop . De Niro the Cop is only in TWO scenes ( count ' em , two ) and has maybe a page's worth of dialogue , if that . The film relies on Segal and he really delivers a fine performance . The entire cast is good - Hector Elizondo and Karen Black in supporting roles , as well as a younger Burt Young ( pre - " Rocky " ) . This isn't a great film and it isn't superbly directed . It's a bit hard to watch at times due to a grainy transfer and bad audio . But it's reminiscent of Al Pacino's " Panic in Needle Park " so far as it presents a realistic , gritty , depressing vision of junkies operating on the streets , and how miserable your life can become by resorting to drugs ( mainly heroin ) . A good , rewarding picture - but don't be fooled by the title , nor Leonard Maltin's description of it as a " very funny " comedy .
A solid enough action film , but a definite step down from " Casino Royale "	NOTE : This review was originally written in January , after I saw the film in theaters , but I held off on posting it until now because I wanted to watch it again on DVD first . Unfortunately , my opinion on the film didn't change much the second time ' round ( somehow I was expecting it to ) . - - For how long can you breathe new life into a franchise before you end up entirely reinventing it ? That is the question that plagues Quantum of Solace , an entertaining but flawed sequel to 2006's Casino Royale . To be fair , this film had a lot to live up to ; Royale was widely touted as not only one of the best films of the entire 40-year-old Bond series , but perhaps even the best . It made numerous critics ' year-end award lists . It earned Daniel Craig the status of being the ideal modern-day Bond , carrying with him all the grim and serious introspection that has become a staple of this millennium's entertainment . We are accustomed to brooding heroes in this age , and Craig fit the bill , offering a complex and daring portrayal of what had become a very outdated , campy character . Quantum's first misstep is that it runs with the dark elements of Royale but maintains none of the franchise's staple humour . Every Bond film has its fair share of tongue-in-cheek moments ; even the opening action sequence in Casino had some fun and inventiveness to it . Quantum is by-the-numbers ? a big long car chase , so tightly edited that you can hardly tell what's happening to whom ( a technical flaw that occurs throughout the movie , to the point where it makes the chaotic stylings of Paul Greengrass look Scorsese going through one of his move - the - camera - as - little - as - possible moments ) . Some critics have complained that Quantum presents a boring , revenge-fueled Bond , stripped of all characteristics . It's true ? to a point . This isn't the first time Bond has gone on a revenge spree ; the difference is , last time he didn't disarm people with Jason Bourne-style physical defense moves . Actual plot mechanisms and general design aside , including the whole " Ludlum ripped off Fleming " argument , the producers are so clearly trying to ape the action framings of the highly successful Bourne trilogy ; money talks , and Bourne shouted , so it's only common sense that others would follow in pursuit . The problem is , Quantum's director , Marc Forster , has no experience with action sequences whatsoever , and the editing ? as aforementioned ? is so fast that you literally can't tell what's going on half the time . Every time the movie cuts to an action sequence ? which is quite frequently ? you have to wait until it's over to figure out who's left standing . The plot doesn't make much sense and , when you finally figure out what's going on , it's not nearly as complex as you would have hoped ( in order to justify the poor plot setup points earlier in the film ) . Basically , the movie picks up right where the last one left off , with Bond trying to hunt down a new elite criminal organization named QUANTUM , which was responsible for the death of his One True Love . Bond is joined this time around by a feisty heroine ( Olga Kurylenko , exhibiting not nearly as much charisma or acting capabilities as Eva Green ) , who is also seeking revenge against someone affiliated with QUANTUM . She joins forces with Bond and they uncover a vast conspiracy ( if that's what you wish to call it ) to control a region's water supply . In spite of a poor plot and other aforementioned flaws , the movie is nevertheless quite entertaining and , perhaps because of my low expectations after reading some very critical reviews ahead of the screening , I didn't feel terribly disappointed . The movie kept my interest , which is more than can be said for some of the ' 70s and ' 80s Bond pictures . It also wasn't nearly as far-fetched as the last few Brosnan pictures , although the much-critiqued high velocity plane sequence ( which ends rather lamely , mind you ) does seem very gratuitous and interrupts the film's otherwise bleak , down-to-earth approach . Ultimately , this isn't as deep or emotionally gripping a film as the last Bond picture , but it's far from a disaster . Truth be told , the fact that the movie already had a release date set before the last one was even out of theaters was never a good sign . They rushed into production with an inexperienced action director and an unfinished script , trying to capitalize upon the fleeting hype of Casino Royale without stopping at any point to ask themselves why that film was so well-received . The high expectations audiences were left with after the closing shots of Casino Royale were never going to be met under these circumstances , and ? in spite of all its flaws ? Quantum is still an enjoyable action flick that , hopefully , a few years from now , will be remembered for having served as a somewhat disappointing bridge between two fantastic Bond films , and not as having been the beginning of the end for the Craig's run as cinema's iconic hero . He deserves better , and so do we .
Far better than I expected , although it lacks the emotional depth of its immediate predecessor	When I read that Brett Ratner was replacing Bryan Singer as director for " X-Men : The Last Stand " my hope for the project instantly diminished . After reading Ratner's plans to have a " fantasy mutant " of his own creation in the film whose purpose would be to satisfy the sexual appetites of men , I was really worried . And finally , after viewing the trailer , I really lost all interest - it looked like a typical action blockbuster , no better than " Fantastic Four " and lacking the better elements of the first and second films . I also picked up on the fact that there was really , REALLY bad dialogue in the trailer - which indicated to me that the film was in bad shape . However , it's good . Not great , and not in any way , shape or form as good as the second film - but it's a small notch below the first film and still quite entertaining . Ratner imitates Singer's cold , blue-tint directorial style - and does so pretty well . There are obvious sequences where it isn't Singer and Ratner's penchant for loud action shines through - but it still works . The acting isn't as bad as I had feared but ultimately the film's 88-minute running time prevents it from delving into the emotional depth of these characters . A character is killed early on with little hesitation and he comes across during the beginning of the movie as a self-absorbed jerk . Wolverine's mysterious background - which proved to be a highlight of the second film , as well as an emotional roller-coaster for him - is totally abandoned and he just becomes a live action figure . His rah-rah rally speech to the other guys at the end ( " We're the X-Men ! " ) is simultaneously disappointing and totally lame . Nevertheless , I found myself entertained - and surprised that , overall , the film wasn't nearly as bad as I had feared it would be . For the most part , Ratner doesn't give in to his eccentricities ( when I saw mutants on the trailer that looked like NIN groupies with goth haircuts I was worried ) - and as a casual fan of the first two movies , who was surprised by their depth as superhero movies , I can say that I found this at least to be a suiting finale to the series ( if there aren't any more sequels - the end seems to indicate there will be ) - it may not be as smart or mature as the previous sequel but it provides a nice jumping point for the spawning of character-sequels such as the " Wolverine " movie that's rumored to be made next - and hopefully that film will provide a bit more depth for Hugh Jackman's character , because his lack of characterization this time around is one of the movie's lesser aspects .
Originality is what makes this film good .	Despite some great acting talents , the other thing that made this film enjoyable was the sheer originality of it . There are a lot of romantic comedies with stupid plots . While this-like all romance film is very predictable-the plot of the film is quite funny , and the acting helps a whole lot ! stars . JOHN ULMER
One of Coppola's last effective films	In 1982 and 1983 Francis Ford Coppola adapted two films from novels by author S . E . Hinton , both dealing with the rites of passage regarding rough teenagers living on the streets . " The Outsiders " follows Johnny and Ponyboy ( Ralph Macchio and C . Thomas Howell ) as they run away from home and are attacked by another gang , The Socs , at a water fountain . Johnny kills some of them , the others run away and the " greasers " flee to the care of a friend ( Matt Dillon ) who tells them to run away and that he'll join them later . This sparks a whole chain of events as the rival gangs ' violence towards each other escalates . The movie has a flawless cast featuring supporting performances by actors like Patrick Swayze , Tom Cruise ( in one of his first roles ) , Diane Lane , Rob Lowe and Emilio Estevez . This forms a nice companion piece to " Rumble Fish , " which is a superior film in my opinion ; of interesting note is that Dillon and Lane both returned to work with Coppola , so presumably their experience the year before was enjoyable . " The Outsiders " is not a great film but it is effective and one of the last movies Francis Ford Coppola made before he altogether lost his artistic vision and sold out by making poor excuses for films like " Jack " ( 1996 ) . The new DVD features a " recut " of the film , which is supposedly better and more faithful to the book , which has a huge cult following amongst young teens in particular .
I've never understood the hostility towards this film	In my opinion " Fallen " is one of the better supernatural thrillers to come out of Hollywood in the past few decades . It's smart , slick and well-acted - not exploitative or full of " shock " material ( gore-wise ) , but rather it operates on a more intellectual level . Denzel Washington and John Goodman are both superb as NYC cops who begin to believe a string of murders are being committed by a demon - the same demon that had earlier possessed a serial killer who was executed in the beginning of the film . As Washington investigates further he realizes this demon can jump from one person to the next ( resulting in a rather eerie scene on a sidewalk in which the demon skips back and forth from each passerby ) . This may sound utterly silly , but the way it's filmed is what makes it effective . The ending is a shocker and the script by Nicholas Kazan ( " Reversal of Fortune , " " Bicentennial Man " ) offers decent dialogue . If you like atmospheric thrillers you should check this out .
Yes , it's been done before , but in recent times , not nearly as sweet or funny as " Blast From the Past " . . .	" Blast From the Past " - Some SpoilersSitting down to watch " Blast From the Past " one night , I didn't expect much . I hadn't read many reviews on the film , but it was my impression it had flopped at the box office and wasn't supposed to be very good . But I was extremely startled upon the first five minutes of watching the film to find it not only funny , but sweet , too . The film starts in the sixties , when husband and mad inventor Christopher Walken and normal wife Sissy Spacek are in their house cleaning up after a dinner party . Walken has created a bomb shelter in case the " Commies " drop a nuke ; he panics when he hears of possible bombs , and sticks himself and his wife in the underground bomb shelter . Unfortunately , the auto-locks on the underground shelter lock themselves after a jet-fighter from the sky lands on their home outside . Walken and the bomb shelter believe this to be a nuclear bomb , and so they are trapped down in the shelter for about thirty years because Walken programmed the locks not to release for thirty years . . . Soon they have a child , and after thirty years , the child has grown into Brendan Fraser : an innocent , sixties-type man with sixties clothes , sixties haircut , sixties expressions . . . because he grew up in the bomb shelter , he's practically been living in the sixties for three decades . So when the locks finally unlock , Walken goes above ground to find the modern world - - he believes it to be a post-apocalyptic modern-day earth . He rushes back underground and reports of how the world is to his unhappy wife . They decide to live underground forever . Unfortunately , they are almost out of food and supplies , because Walken only filled the shelter with enough material to last them thirty years . So Fraser volunteers to go up , get some supplies , then come back down . And so the simple plot begins ; the fish out of the water meets the modern-day girl ( Alicia Silverstone , in this case ) who shows him around the modern day earth . It's been done before : " Crocodile Dundee " rings a bell . But , like " Crocodile Dundee , " " Blast From the Past " ranks as one of the best of its kind . It has some great gags . And unlike some comedies where the gags are funny in the beginning but run out of steam towards the end , " Blast From the Past " is consistently sweet and funny ; perhaps the best romantic comedy in a while ( close to the greatness of 1997's " As Good As it Gets " ) . " Blast From the Past " runs like a film from the sixties - - the humor is classy , not crude . There aren't as many sex gags as there could have been , and I'm thankful for that . " Kids in the Hall " star Dave Foley plays a gay man who Fraser mistakes to be happy , but that's just about the most sexually-suggestive the film gets . Fraser blends the perfect sense of innocent and childish-sweetness to make his character very likable . Alicia Silverstone adds the right touch of modern-day toughness to her role as a woman doesn't know what to expect when she meets a man that truly has good intentions and is not a creep . Christopher Walken is one of my favorite supporting actors , and he does just as good as always here , as does Sissy Spacek . So , yes , it's been done before , but in recent times , not nearly as sweet or funny as " Blast From the Past . " stars - John Ulmer
' Austin Powers ' has its hit and misses , but comes off with mostly hits . . . Perhaps the greatest thing about this film is that it is not directly geared towards Bond geeks . . .	Austin Powers : International Man of Mystery - Some Minor SpoilersSpy spoofs usually amount to zip . That's why the raunchy ' Austin Powers : International Man of Mystery ' was so popular upon its release . It accomplished its mission of successfully spoofing the James Bond phenomenon in almost every way . The two sequels didn't do quite as well , but I was quite pleased with the second film , especially . ' Saturday Night Live ' veteran Mike Myers plays Austin Powers , a groovy British spy in the swingin ' sixties . 1967 , to be exact . His looks resemble the orangutan-meets-human look that British are stereotyped with , and his clothes are fresh outta ' 60's London . Mike Myers also plays Dr . Evil , Powers ' arch-nemesis . After tracing Dr . Evil to the Psychedelic Pussycat club in London , Evil gets away in a Big Boy rocket and blasts into outer space , where he circles the world for thirty years , frozen with his cat . Myers 1 - err , Austin Powers - is cryogenically frozen immediately , to be thawed out upon return of Dr . Evil . Well , the thirty years pass , and eventually Dr . Evil returns to earth , with Mr . Bigglesworth , his cat . Number 2 ( Robert Wagner ) , his evil assistant , fills him in on what has happened over the years , and soon Evil is planning another ' Highjack some nuclear warheads and hold the world ransom ' bit . Austin is thawed out and sent to find and defeat Evil , along with the monkey-eared Vanessa Kensington ( Elizabeth Hurley ) . ' Austin Powers ' has its hit and misses , but comes off with mostly hits . It is probably the best spy spoof to emerge out of Hollywood for years . One of the most interesting aspects is that it does not spoof James Bond film as openly as one might expect - there are tiny , minute details that you only pick up on after multiple viewing . I really expected every other gag to be a satire on Bond films , but alas ! They were not ! Yes , the film is a spoof on Bond , but not to a sick extreme . Just minute things that audiences may - or may not - pick up on , depending on how knowledgeable they are on the Bond movies . Powers is , of course , a spoof on James Bond . He's sex-obsessed like Bond , but does not come across with the same coolness and ease of James Bond . At least not in the nineties , anyway . Dr . Evil is a spoof on Blofield , Bond's arch-nemesis from the Bond films . He is shrouded in mystery and when revealed boasts a bald head , a big , crooked nose , and a cat like Blofield's which is unfortunately naked - without fur - because it didn't thaw out so well in the Big Boy rocket . Number 2 is a spoof on . well . Number 2 from ' Thunderball ' - from the name to the eye patch , which I only picked up on after viewing ' Thunderball ' recently . There are some very clever scenes in ' Austin Powers . ' Some of the gags spoof the spy genre very easily . Others fall flat , mainly because they try to get the audience to be sickened . Yes , the film needs to be raunchy to a certain degree - it is a Bond spoof - but they went a bit OTT on some of the jokes ( the whole Jacuzzi scene got a bit prolonged . ) . Perhaps the greatest thing about this film is that it is not directly geared towards Bond geeks . We've seen satires that were targeted at a small audience range - like ' Galaxy Quest . ' I really disliked the film the first time I saw it because I do not watch ' Star Trek ' - but on second viewing I found it to be a clever satire on the Trekkies and equally so on the television show . I guess if I saw the film I would have enjoyed it more the first - and probably second - time . It was a good comedy , but if they had not geared it towards such a small range of audience , I feel they would have received more of a response to the film . But the exact opposite is the case with ' Powers . ' Bond geeks and regular moviegoers alike can enjoy this film . It brings two very different audiences together - they may laugh at different things , but they are still laughing together . Perhaps that is the film's biggest achievement . Sadly , it is its most overlooked , as well . I think that many people don't really understand WHY they like the film so much . I've heard people say , ' Why do you like the film so much ? ' and the other person will say , ' Well . umm . gee , I just do . ' They themselves know the jokes are not always the greatest . Many of the gags DO fall short . But deep down they know that the cleverness of the film is what makes them like it so much - and they are either subconsciously afraid to admit that , or literally don't know how to . Be warned , ' Powers ' is not a film for everyone . If you don't like raunchy laughs , I wouldn't recommend it . But if you want to see a clever parody of the spy genre - well , I might as well say it : a clever parody of the James Bond genre ( let's face it - there's no such thing as a spy genre anymore - James Bond has its own genre ) - then I would recommend ' Powers . ' ' Austin Powers . ' stars - John Ulmer
The " Apocalypse Now " of the 1990s	The critics really took a beating on " Dead Man " when it came out . I remember not hearing much about the film until just recently , and I looked up some critics ' reviews and was surprised to see some exceedingly positive , and others unbelievably low , filled with venemous hatred for the film . After seeing the film , I can understand why . You either love it or hate it ; " get it " or " don't get it . " I think I got it . Or , at least , I appreciated it . Yes , it does get quite long at times . Yes , it's pretentious . A bit _ too _ pretentious at times , maybe . But it's still a very unique , interesting twist on the western motion picture formula with solid direction , excellent performances and a killer soundtrack by Neil Young . ( It's eerie and fits the mood and tone of the movie perfectly . ) The story follows a man named William Blake ( Johnny Depp ) who , at the turn of the 20th century , ventures by train to a deserted town in search of a stable job . When he arrives , he finds out the position has already been fulfilled , and he is left helpless , eventually falling into the arms of a local prostitute . Later that night , her boyfriend ( Gabriel Byrne ) returns home , finds them in bed together , and shoots them both , killing the woman and injuring Blake . Blake returns fire , kills the man , and flees into the night , waking up in the arms of an Indian who nurses him back to health . Meanwhile the man's father ( the late Robert Mitchum in his final screen performance ) sends a group of hired killers ( led by Lance Henriksen ) after Blake , who is mistakenly assumed by the Indian to be the famous poet of the same name . Jim Jarmusch's western twist instantly reminded me of " Apocalypse Now , " not just through its theatrical style and scope but also because of its critical reaction . If you'll recall , " Apocalypse Now " received very mixed review upon its initial release , and was condemned for being pretentious and overly-artsy - - just like " Dead Man . " And like " Dead Man , " each year it seemingly gains new loyal fans who have boosted it into the realm of masterpiece . Now the critics love " Apocalypse Now . " It makes me wonder what they'll think of " Dead Man " in thirty years . There are some flaws , though . As I pointed out before , Jarmush does act a bit pretentious behind the camera sometimes . Although as a film buff I enjoyed the opening sequence , it does go on too long , and doesn't make much sense . It's sort of bizarre for the sake of being bizarre at times . ( And this method continues throughout the entire picture . ) The huge cast is filled with eye-popping cameos ( just like " Apocalypse " ) and this is both for better and for worse . Johnny Depp is excellent in the lead role . The movie takes on a hallucinogenic quality so everything is rather distorted , including his performance . It's distant and watered , his behavior rippling . Depp nails it . The political correctness of the film is something " Apocalypse " avoided - - for example the black gunslinger . Just from a historical perspective , it would never have been . Also , they didn't wear braided hair back then . Some of the " modernized " elements of the film were a bit unwelcomed , ruining the historical aspect . ( And I'm not just referencing ethnicity , I'm referencing modernizing elements of the story in general , and the time period . ) Overall I do think this film is quite misunderstood by a majority of regular filmgoers , and the critics bagged on it too heavily when it first came out . But evidently , judging from its impressive standing on IMDb , some people have " got it " and the movie is at least creating some sort of effect after all these years . I just liked it because it's a unique film , and I respect that in any movie made nowadays .
Better than " Lock , Stock & Two Smoking Barrels " - more fun , more lively , and generally just better	I saw Guy Ritchie's " Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " and thought it was an extremely disappointing piece of ' 90s cinema - I specify it was made in the 1990s because it's another one of those Quentin Tarantino rip-offs that borrow his directorial trademarks - the violence punctuated by irony and dark humor , the intertwining stories , the morally dark characters who have no remorse . " Snatch " is a great deal better . Some people claim it's Guy Ritchie selling out to the American market because it stars Brad Pitt , Benicio Del Toro and Dennis Farina . If he's " selling out , " he's buying something better with the money - this is a lot more fun to watch than " Two Smoking Barrels . " Simply put , it's directed much better . I felt like " Barrels " was a British TV commercial extended to full length - all style over substance . " Snatch " has similar style but there's more substance . As for the performances . . . everyone is great . Del Toro opens the movie with a bank robbery - he steals a precious diamond and tries to sell it . This moves on to Jason Statham , as a boxing promoter , and his story ties into the previous one . This goes on and on and invites new characters into the mix . The standout is of course Brad Pitt . When I lived in England we had Pikeys living around us and they annoyed the hell out of me . They were constantly speeding down our road and stealing stuff . Once they smashed their van through a neighbor's fence , then fled the scene of the accident - as if the police wouldn't figure out who it was . Watching " Snatch " I was reminded of this and thought it was particularly memorable because I've never seen a " Pikey " in a movie before . Brad Pitt basically mumbles his way through the movie and he and his pack really do come across as genuine Pikeys . I hate to sound like a typical American when I say " Snatch " is better than " Lock Stock & Two Smoking Barrels , " but I honestly think the plot , the direction and the acting is superior here . Statham is still great and Pitt is surprisingly effective in his role . The movie is lively and fun to watch , cleverly scripted with good dialogue and although some scenes are reminiscent of Tarantino , the overall product is far better than anything else Ritchie has done - and provides more originality than his other movies , too .
A fitting closure to Season Two	Season finales - especially those for comedies - are often cursed with having to tie up loose ends in the narrative , resulting in a noticeable shift in humor . However , although not quite as outrageously funny as some of the earlier episodes in the season , " Dennis and Dee Get a New Dad " was a lot funnier than I had expected . It manages to come full circle while still providing plenty of laughs , and it even provides an amusing twist at the end that I never saw coming . The plot is a return to the more complex - after some rather straightforward episodes , this one is all over the map . It begins with Dee finding a man on MySpace . com who claims to be her real father . So Dee and Dennis ask their mother whether there's any truth to this - and she confirms that the man is being honest . This causes Frank , who thought Dee and Dennis were his children , to question his entire life . He is so upset that he has a minor stroke and ends up swearing to seek revenge against the biological father of Dee and Dennis . Meanwhile , Dennis and Dee meet up with their real father , who is played by Stephen Collins in a nice send-up of the role he is famous for in " 7th Heaven . " Dennis and Dee love their new father for a while , but soon his incredibly clean image and " nice guy " vibe starts to get on their nerves . And in the meantime , Mac and Charlie are lured into running heroin for Mac's father , who has been in jail for Mac's entire life . But before they can do this , they have to prove they are tough , so they tell Frank that they will beat up Dennis and Dee's father to earn themselves " street cred . " The twist at the end is hilarious and a classic example of this show's sick sense of humor . To be honest I thought Charlie and Mac were kind of pushed aside for much of the duration of the episode , and usually the show is better at balancing multiple story lines , but in this case I think they just had a hard time fitting so much plot into one episode . Perhaps F / X should have granted them a one-hour time slot for the finale - the Charlie / Mac subplot could have been expanded a bit more , because I thought it was hilarious and this was the first time I really felt as if they didn't spend enough time on Charlie - who is usually a main character in every episode . Regardless , considering they only had about 24 minutes the " Sunny " gang really did pull off an excellent finale here - it was funny , clever , brutal and entertaining . It leaves you hanging with its open ending , and I honestly can't wait for Season Three to begin .
One of the best serial killer movies	The serial killer genre is one that became popular after " Silence of the Lambs , " and since then the only ones that have really stuck out are " Se7en , " " Copycat " and " Saw . " " Copycat " is about a psychologist who lectures students on serial killers , and one day finds herself to be a victim at one of her speeches . Attacked in the bathroom , she narrowly escapes death and becomes a social recluse in the years that follow - - living through the Internet , anonymously chatting on Internet chat rooms and so on and so forth . Until the terror begins again , this time involving not only the ex-pschologist ( Sigourney Weaver ) but also a cop played by Holly Hunter . " Copycat " was much better than I thought it would be . I originally saw it on TBS years ago ; I remember the ads claiming it would be on , but for some reason the rights fell through and it didn't air for another month or so . . . through this time period I hadn't heard anything about the film , but within the very first few minutes I instantly knew it was going to be much better than the standard " Silence " rip-off . I may be alone here ( and trust me , I know it ) but I enjoy this more than " Silence of the Lambs , " which kind of bores me at times . " Copycat " is dark and unexpectedly intelligent - - it is also perfectly cast . Weaver is fine ( if unexceptional ) whereas Hunter's macho-female traits are put into play perfectly by her casting as a cop . The killer in the movie is played by Harry Connick Jr . , and even he does a good job , which is saying quite a lot . The movie has unexpected twists and is very clever in its own right . It is undoubtedly influenced ( heavily ) by " Silence of the Lambs " but is successful in the way it adds its own qualities to the mix - - much like " Se7en " this is a serial killer movie cashing in on the success of " Silence , " but not necessarily stealing its content . Very surprised . Catch it if you can .
Actually quite good as far as action blockbusters go - very different from the previous films but benefits from not taking itself too seriously	I was one of many not expecting much from the newest " Die Hard " film . I figured it would be an OK action flick - another forgettable summer fare - and when I read that the film had been rated PG-13 it completely solidified my early thoughts that the movie was going to be more for the teen market . " Live Free " is interesting for a number of reasons , actually , and the first is its marketing : FOX clearly didn't know how to sell this film . Early on they marketed it as a new-age action film : the trailer showed lots of bodies getting shot , cars flying into the air and exploding , etc . But there was no real humor , sampling of a plot , and worst of all , no indication that John McClane - the seminal everyman hero - was really back . It backfired and the fans on the ' net complained . One of the most popular suggestions fans offered for another trailer would be to use Beethoven's 9th over the action scenes , which is how the original film was promoted . A few fans ( myself included ) edited the teaser and replaced the heavy orchestral score with Beethoven's 9th . The result was more in tune with Die Hard - it gave the scenes kind of a lively kick . The reason I find this interesting is that it turns out both Len Wiseman and Bruce Willis were actively monitoring the Internet forums on various sites and presumably either they , or someone else involved in the production and marketing , actually took the fans ' advice for once - the full-length trailer that debuted a few months later featured Beethoven's 9th ! Bruce Willis subsequently joined an Internet forum and started chatting to fans . To prove his identity he started a video chat session using his Mac computer - I find this interesting because the same thing is done during one point in " Live Free or Die Hard " when John McClane starts a video chat session over the Internet with the villain . Bruce's dedication to the movie - and his repeated statement that it was " as good as the original " and his dismissal of the last two sequels as being bad films - actually got my hopes up a bit because I felt this was an indication that Willis ( who , it must be noted , really helped get the film's production off the ground to begin with ) must have genuinely loved the movie . He kept mentioning that director Wiseman had brought the franchise into the 21st century , and I didn't like the sounds of that , but after seeing the film I know what he means : this is old-school Die Hard in a new-age setting . The character development is not nearly as strong as the first and third films , but it is better than the second film's dealings with McClane . The film is so fast-paced that there isn't much time to emphasize personal struggles , but there are a few scenes where McClane discusses being a reluctant hero and I felt this was clearly Wiseman trying to establish a link with the original movie , because the second sequel in particular ( and the third to a point ) focused less on this aspect . It definitely seemed like something you'd read in a fan-written script . I was originally skeptical of Wiseman's claims that he loved the original movie ( didn't Paul Anderson say he loved " Alien " and " Predator " ? ) but after seeing the movie I believe him . I also think this is some of the most accurate representation of computers / technology I've seen in any mainstream film - of course some of what happens is very far-fetched , but the little details - such as actually using a mouse to operate computers , recognizing IP addresses , establishing cam chat sessions , etc . - is more accurate than most films , where the people just sit at computers and start typing wildly at keyboards and all types of animated stuff pops up all over their computer screens . I am only noting this in my review because one of the biggest concerns of mine was the fact that the whole " Internet sabotage " hacker plot line was interesting for about a year in 1995 when the Internet first started getting off the ground and I really thought using such an old premise for this film would make it feel quite dated , but it's actually rather well done . And finally , the PG-13 rating : you can see the edits that have been made . You can see the actors mouthing strong obscenities and other words come out of their mouths . And you know , I was really upset at first that the character's catchphrase wouldn't be able to be said in the film because of its rating , but I got so involved in the movie that I didn't _ really _ notice the absence of frequent profanity . I do think the fact that they so blatantly edited words out makes the film feel a bit cheaper and less professional , but it's not a big enough deal to make my opinion of the film lower . YIt is a Die Hard film but it is definitely of modern times and if you really do compare it to the first film , it's amazing how much has changed in about twenty years . The small-scale action in the first film has ballooned into John McClane jumping off an airborne jet and avoiding a huge fireball explosion and taking out helicopters with cars . But it's handled very well and even though it's hugely spectacular and silly it isn't insulting because it doesn't take itself seriously . And the humor is definitely there , too . I find it hard to consider this to be within the same series of films as the original three , but it's still - on its own accord - a really good action film and I'm actually looking forward to seeing it again , which I never expected to say .
The Most Loathed Film Of All-Time	I gave this film a bad review on IMDb in 2002 . I deleted my review today - mainly because I don't agree with it anymore . In fact , I'm not so sure I totally agreed with it when I wrote it . I felt an obligation to hate this movie because people who like it are typically made fun of . But I have to admit : I _ do _ like it . Yes , the romantic subplot is silly to the extent that Jack would never find himself anywhere near Rose to begin with . But you know what ? The romance provides a nice outlet through which to frame the actions of the Titanic's sinking . A three-hour movie about random people on a boat that's going to sink would be a true bore . James Cameron - despite his personal flaws - is a great storyteller and by focusing on characters before heading on to the carnage , he builds a relationship with the viewer . Think of any good historical movie - apart from a few films such as " The Longest Day , " most of the time there's a story taking place around the event . As for " Titanic " - some people will feel offended . Some people will hate the romantic subplot and find the entire thing unbearably hokey . Some people will make fun of Leonardo DiCaprio ( although , thankfully , that phase seems to have passed and he now demands more respect as an actor ) . And some people will just fast-forward to the end so they can see the Titanic sink ( and I'm really hoping that wasn't a spoiler for anyone - because if it was , you need to go take a middle school history course again ) . The acting isn't bad . Leonardo DiCaprio picked up a lot of misery for his acting here . But he's gone on since to prove , like Johnny Depp , that he's more than just a pretty face . His performances in films such as " The Aviator " and " Catch Me If You Can " echo his early work in " What's Eating Gilbert Grape ? " - he's one of this generation's finest actors . It's no wonder Scorsese enjoys working with him so much . It may almost seem absurd to even make this comparison , but after some of his recent films DiCaprio has struck me as another Robert De Niro : he has the talent and the intelligence . It's a shame the success of " Titanic " pushed him back for a few years . Kate Winslet , on the other hand , is a nice contrast against DiCaprio , however I didn't totally buy their romance at all times and they're not the best screen couple in cinema history by any means . Meanwhile , in the Villain Department , Billy Zane is , for once , not bald . If you don't think you'll like it , you probably won't . It's one of those films that people either love or hate . If you didn't like " Braveheart " there's a good chance you'll hate this as well . If you can watch it with an open mind , however , and accept its romantic angle , you may enjoy it .
It's dear to my heart . . .	Enjoyable Disney romp about a young boy who dreams of aquiring his own lamb - - and even draws cartoon images of one - - and then finally gets one , only to find out that they're much harder to take care of than he had ever dreamed . Touching , sweet , sappy , corny , and more often than not quite likable , this Disney classic will entertain your entire family and leave you feeling happy . It ain't great but it's decent enough . ( I've owned a copy for years , and that says something . ) /
Not the best , but still miles ahead of most other stand-up shows	" Carlin on Campus " is dated in some ways - more so than other Carlin shows . The opening , with Carlin speaking to the audience in a classroom , strikes of being totally unfunny and out of place . But once he starts the stand-up and begins delving into the typical absurdities of life , he's on a role . Bits like " A Place to Put Your Stuff " has become classic Carlin , although granted this show has less classic routines than most of his shows and albums . If you're a fan of Carlin suffice to say you will get a kick out of this . If you're new to Carlin I recommend starting with either " Complaints and Grievances " or " Back in Town , " which are both very funny .
Very underrated	" Winter Kills " is based on a novel by Richard Condon ( " The Manchurian Candidate " ) about a man who confesses to having killed the President on his death bed . The President's brother ( Jeff Bridges ) witnesses the confession and stumbles upon a conspiracy plot involving more murder and silencing . This movie somehow slipped under the radar years ago . Whereas " Manchurian Candidate " got the attention it rightfully deserved , " Winter Kills " was killed by its controversy and production faults . It was allegedly filmed in 1975 and only released in 1979 , although I can't find any evidence to back this up . What I do know is that it was given an X rating in the UK , and when a movie in the UK gets an X rating , you know something's wrong . I'm not sure why it received such a harsh rating but evidently that had something to do with its box office failure . I suppose its themes ( clear allusion to the JFK assassination ) were too heavy - not to mention the violence was rather explicit . Seen today , this movie is an underrated gem . John Huston delivers a great performance as Bridges ' father , while Bridges is equally great . The music in the film is eerie and tense - without it , I doubt the film would be quite as good as it is . It was directed by William Richert ( who played the gay Bob Pigeon in " My Own Private Idaho " ) and he does a fine job . The movie builds its suspense well ; the only segment I didn't like too much was when Bridges goes to visit his father for the first time . I felt it went on too long and was out of place . Other than that , this is a very good film and a sadly underrated conspiracy theory movie that never got its chance to make a mark .
Very good live performance , makes most of their songs sound better	I'm not a huge fan of Metallica and I don't really like all of their music ( the songs from the Black album , as well as . . . And Justice for All and the single " I Disappear " are quite good but the rest kind of sound the same to me ) - - but this live version even made me love the songs . It's conducted with Michael Kamen and the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra , who ironically enough contacted THEM with an interest in performing their songs with an orchestra . The result is a loud , powerful , emotional ( ! ) experience . The deep , rich sound of the symphony really makes the songs all sound different . It's quite an experience . The performance is two and a half hours long and the DVD / CD has tons of bonus features including a documentary covering the conception and execution of the entire ordeal . All in all , a real treat , especially for Metallica fans , and perhaps even more so for non-fans who may find they like the music more like this .
Not as bad as I would've thought !	THE ODD COUPLE 2 is not nearly as bad as one would think-and who honestly thought Lemmon and Matthau would make another ODD COUPLE film after all these years . If they have it , get the DVD bundle with these two films . The sequel doesn't lose the charm of the original , even if it's not as good . stars - - JOHN ULMER
Great dry comedy	" Rushmore " is a very funny movie but also a touching one . The first time I saw it , I hated it , finding it dry , humorless and stupid . However on second viewing I realized it's very good and smart , and the dry humor is just Wes Anderson's style - something Bill Murray plays into perfectly . Murray is the rich businessman who befriends a smart 15-year-old named Max , both of whom fall for the same woman , a teacher at Max's school . Max is like Martin Short from " Clifford " - menacing and able to turn his " sweetness " on and off to his advantage . It's a film packed full of perfect performances and Murray's sardonic characterization of the depressed alcoholic peaks with the pool dive scene . " Rushmore " is aptly directed , well written and convincingly staged . Some of its quirky characters seem a bit too silly ( the whole " children are smarter than adults " angle gets old real quick with just about every child in this movie acting like a grown-up ) , but that's a small fault in a movie that made me laugh , out loud , many times , and at the same time feel attached to the characters - not many comedies are able to pull that off anymore .
Very underrated character piece , although not without its flaws	" Rounders " is about a straight-flying legal student ( Matt Damon ) who leaves behind his gambling habits to satisfy his moralistic girlfriend . However when his best friend " Worm " ( Edward Norton ) is released from jail , the two embark on a cards-journey that leads them from success to misfortune after Worm is caught cheating and the man who caught him ( John Malkovich ) wants his money back . Whereas Ben Affleck continues to go downhill after " Good Will Hunting , " Matt Damon has striven uphill , taking on daring productions such as " The Talented Mr . Ripley , " " The Bourne Identity " series , and of course " Rounders , " which features one of his best performances . Damon has become typecast as some sort of bad actor in the league of Affleck , but he's much better than his pal , and films like this prove it . Norton is once again superb as one of his characters you love to hate . He's got the character of Worm down pat , and it really elevates the acting ( along with Damon ) to a level of greatness . The film is directed and written very well , offering realistic dialog and gritty environments . However the flaws of the movie are its long running time ( two hours exactly ) , which could have been shortened , and probably the fact that its card playing is sometimes a bit alienating to the audience . That said , this is still a very underrated movie featuring outstanding performances and a unique spin on gambling flicks . Worth watching at least once in a lifetime .
Not the best war film ever made , but perhaps the most realistic .	What Steven Spielberg has done with " Saving Private Ryan " is simultaneously craft an enormously successful depiction of World War II , and a touching story that places a platoon of bewildered soldiers in a world of frantic pacing - - a startling world of gunfire and proceeding death . The constant movement of the shaky hand-held camera acts as a first person perspective - - we are not merely viewing the movie , but participating in it . This is perhaps as close as we will ever get to realizing the unadulterated fear those soldiers must have felt as they drew nearer to the beaches of France . It is one of the greatest war films ever put on celluloid , its scope arguably larger than any other in the genre , its conflict superb . The movie , based on the actual events surrounding the Nilan brothers during World War II , is about a group of soldiers sent to rescue Private Ryan ( Matt Damon ) , a young man who loses three brothers in the war , and whose mother is spared the possible chance of losing her remaining son after Captain Miller ( Tom Hanks ) and his platoon are sent on a dangerous mission to find , and return , Private Ryan to safety . The men who fight alongside Miller have to question their own actions . What makes Private Ryan more important than any of them ? They all have mothers , too . But they follow orders , venturing into the battlefields of WWII France in search of Private Ryan . The most reluctant of the soldiers is Private Reiben ( Edward Burns ) , a pessimistic everyman who feels no need to risk his own life for that of another man . The battle scenes are ultimately what made " Saving Private Ryan " one of the highest-grossing films of the decade , and what enticed so many eager viewers into theaters . Many veterans of the war reportedly broke down in tears during one of the first sequences , the landing at Omaha Beach , which probably lasts about fifteen minutes - - at least . However , the movie also reaches a sort of emotional height that few other war films manage to capture . This is a fascinating account of war , packed with terrifyingly realistic scenes and some of the most disturbing images you will ever see in a mainstream film , but it also has a lot to say about friendship and selfless motivations . " Earn this , " Captain Miller tells Private Ryan at one point in the film . Spielberg has proved countless times that he is capable of abandoning his famously schmaltzy style of film-making to record touching stories that often times relate to his own life . Spielberg claims that he felt an internal desire to tackle this project , as much as he felt it was necessary to direct " Schindler's List . " Both films work as a sort of documentary-style motion picture , but also contain fundamental emotional truths , which elevate them to higher ground . Tom Hanks , as Captain Miller , is not the first actor who comes to mind when one thinks of war picture , but Hanks ' position in the film works ( to great effect ) primarily because he personifies the everyman quality of a soldier . As we too often forget , the men who fight wars are not always the Schwarzeneggers with huge muscles and a wealth of weapons and ammunition . The soldiers in World War II were fathers , husbands , brothers , sons . Hanks successfully embodies the image of a simple man who is thrust into a world war and tries his best to stay alive . Is " Saving Private Ryan " a better movie than " Apocalypse Now , " " Platoon , " or other great war pictures in the genre ? Not necessarily . But it stands on its own as an amazing achievement of pure film-making , and an ode to the thousands of men who lost their lives for the campaign against Hitler's armies . If you can stomach the violence and accurate depictions of brutal warfare , " Saving Private Ryan " is one of the most moving cinematic experiences you will ever have .
Quentin Tarantino's second strike .	Quentin Tarantino's " Pulp Fiction " is the quintessential example of great movie making , assorted using various constructive techniques that elevate the film to the highest possible level , stretching the boundaries and pushing upwards . Like all great directors , Q . T . lets the film and its subsidiaries stand on their own . A lesser director might employ cheap gimmicks and plot devices to move the story onwards at a brisk pace , but " Pulp Fiction " is a dark action , comedy , and / or drama that clocks in at two hours and thirty-four minutes . And not a single minute is wasted on material we think could have been shortened or cut . It's one of those rare motion pictures that leaves you wanting more , which only welcomes another immediate viewing to let everything sink in a second , third , or even fourth time . A lesser director than Tarantino might also force his characters into saying things they would not normally say , or into actions they would not normally act out in real life . Instead , Tarantino does something brilliant and seldom executed : He actually lets his characters evolve on-screen , and actually engage in every day conversations . Most critics interpret this as Quentin stopping to insert unnecessary ( albeit entertaining ) dialogue segments . They're wrong . The dialogue is strong , but it's there for a purpose . The difference is that dialogue in a movie such as " The Presidio " isn't real at all . The characters enter , move the plot forwards through speaking or acting , then proceed to repeat this in following instances , as if they're following the back of a mouth wash bottle ( " rinse , spit , repeat " ) . Quentin does something else , by eavesdropping on his characters when their dialogue does mean something . No doubt Jules and Vincent have much to say about many things , but most of the time it is not relevant to the story . One must keep in mind that we actually hear little about Jules and Vincent , and even less talk between them . But when we do hear these things , it's strikingly true and purposeful . And this is what so many people miss when viewing " Pulp Fiction " - - the witty dialogue has become universally regarded as the strongest ever written , and while that may very well be correct , the idea that it is pointless is absurd . Quentin is subtle in the way he introduces his speeches ; when Jules ( Samuel L . Jackson ) and Vincent ( John Travolta ) spend some two or three minutes discussing how the French translate the term " Quarter Pounder with Cheese " due to the metric system , it is amazingly deliberate : Quentin later uses this same reference for Jules before he and Vincent assassinate a group of young crooks who have stolen a briefcase from Marsellus Wallace ( Ving Rhames ) , one of the town's major kingpins . There are essentially three stories in " Pulp Fiction , " intertwined between one another . It opens with Honey Bunny ( Amanda Plummer ) and her boyfriend ( Tim Roth ) hatching a plan to rob a restaurant . By their reasoning , no one ever bothers with restaurants , just banks , so why not take advantage of them " with their pants down " ? The stick-up proceeds , which is when the famous titles roar forward and we find ourselves following Jules and Vincent , who work for Marsellus , who has paid championship boxer Butch ( Bruce Willis ) to fall in his upcoming match . But Butch has a better plan : Bet loads of money on himself , beat the other guy to a bloody pulp , and run away with his money . He almost gets away with it when he accidentally crosses paths with Marsellus once more , resulting in a rape scene to rival that in " Deliverance . " Back to the dialogue . It is the driving force of the film , complementing the plot and allowing its characters to grow on us in ways we never imagined they would . It's the way in which the dialogue is deliberated that varies from most other examples of deliberation . For example , is it coincidence that we just so happen to overhear Jules and Vincent discussing the Big Mac and Quarter Pounder with Cheese ? No . But our instincts tell us that it seems very real , as if Tarantino went around filming real people , then edited together scenes where the dialogue could bear some sort of importance to the plot . There are different levels of dialogue - - plot-driven , and realistic - - but all dialogue is in service of its plot , just as all of what we say to our friends or family has a deeper meaning and will no doubt relate to the matter at hand . All dialogue relates to a larger scheme , and so does the dialogue in " Pulp Fiction . " It's just more casual and subtle than most movies . It's not pointless , but it's not deliberate , which is a fine line to try and balance on . Quentin does so successfully , crossing the finish line with enthusiasm , which is no doubt part of what elevates " Pulp Fiction " above so many other motion pictures of its genre . .
An interesting experiment by Morrison and his pals that is ultimately worth watching today if you are a Doors / Morrison fan .	I was listening to the 1970 Rolling Stone interview with Jim Morrison and he had mentioned a film he made with some friends a few months beforehand about a hitchhiker who comes out of the desert and travels to LA . " What's it about ? " the interviewer asked . " It doesn't really have a plot , " said Morrison . Very true . This unfinished project made by Morrison and his friends was really just an experiment in film-making . Morrison originally went to the University of California ( I believe ) and was a film major , and he continued to express a deep interest in film later on in his musical career . If you are a Doors fan or a fan of Morrison in general then this will probably appeal to you . It's about fifty minutes long and begins with Morrison ( The Hitchhiker ) emerging from a small pool of water in some woods and he makes a trek to the highway , where he gets a ride and goes to LA . That's all that happens . If you have no interest in Morrison you probably won't find this very engaging - but for a fan of The Doors such as myself it's an interesting , rare slice of Morrison's creative work outside of music and poetry .
More human than " Scarface . "	" Scarface " was a great operatic film rooted in Greek tragedy , primarily the downfall of its protagonist related to his own hubris and pride . Its over-the-top theatrics and scenery-chewing acting complemented the absurdist tone of the film ; some carping critics complained it was " too violent , " but it was silly violence . . . and it worked . " Carlito's Way " is considered by many to be a companion piece of sorts to " Scarface " - but in its own ways it is vastly different . As " GoodFellas " differed a great deal from " Casino " in its narrative methods , " Carlito's Way " isn't as broad and theatrical as " Scarface . " Of course , it's still a DePalma film , and that means we get some beautiful set pieces - but for the most part DePalma avoids his excessive visuals and instead opts for a balanced mixture of both storyline and directorial flair . It is not a sequel to " Scarface " - it is an expansion , and it seems entirely apt that its narrative is more mature , considering that Carlito Brigante ( the main character ) is wiser than Tony Montana from " Scarface . " Carlito is a Puerto Rican ex-con who gets out of a thirty-year jail sentence based on a technicality after serving a mere five years of sentence . Faced with a new life and fresh horizons , he decides to heed the lessons he learned in jail and embark on a new and honest lifestyle . " Scarface " was Greek tragedy insofar as Tony Montana was doomed to a downfall based on his own egotism and stubbornness . Like Oedipus in Sophocles ' classic story , Montana was too bull-headed to take the advice of his wife and friends and was entirely responsible for his own emotional ( and , in " Scarface's " case , physical ) demise . " Carlito's Way " is the flip side of the coin . It's still Greek tragedy , but it offers a new perspective . This time , the protagonist tries to change his fate , but his life is doomed to its inevitable conclusion . Carlito tries to change his ways , but - to paraphrase a character from another film - there is only one guarantee . . . Carlito Brigante will never see heaven . That's the fundamental truth of this movie , and DePalma's less showy camera-work , and the more mature characterizations by the actors , and the believable script , ensure that " Carlito's Way " is an entirely human experience - far more so than " Scarface . " ( Which is still a great film based on its own goals . )
Well , I liked it .	I know a lot of people who absolutely despise this movie . I've heard people compare it to Frank Capra and " Forrest Gump " in derogatory ways . When it was made known that it is George W . Bush's favorite movie of all-time , it only solidified the theory that it's for fantastical Republicans who like their entertainment peachy-clean and schmaltzy . I finally saw it on AMC about a week ago and I enjoyed it . I actually really liked it , and I'm not a big fan of baseball ( or sports ) in general . Kevin Costner plays a farmer in Iowa who begins to hear voices and witnesses eerie images in his cornfields . He is convinced that the ghosts of baseball players are telling him to construct a playing field in his cornfields . . . so he risks it all - his wife , his job , his sanity - and tries to hunt down a guy named Terence Mann ( James Earl Jones in one of his best roles ) , whom he thinks can help him with his mission of faith . This movie is very lightweight and inspirational and " clean . " It carries a none-too-subtle message of faith against reason - for that reason alone I think many Christians probably enjoy it , and that's why it has become known as a conservative film . It doesn't help , as I said before , that it's Bush's favorite film and Costner is a Republican . Political links aside , I'm a rather pessimistic guy but I still found the story strange , different and entertaining . I enjoyed it . I'm not a big fan of Costner's but in spite of his presence the movie is still amusing and James Earl Jones gives a great performance as a rusty , bitter old man . Yes , " Field of Dreams " is a " nice " movie and certainly is a feel-good film . But once in a while I think we all need a bit of refreshment .
Blazing Satire	Ever felt the pressures of every-day life ? Ever gotten tired of your cubicle job ? Ever had an epiphany ? Ever stopped going to work ? " Office Space " is a genuinely superb and playful parody , that plays on so many every-day things that you start laughing like crazy . Who wouldn't like to take the office fax machine out to an open field and smash the bejeezes out of it ? Who wouldn't like to just stop coming to work and get promoted for doing so ? Who wouldn't like to ignore their boss ' calls ? Who wouldn't like to ignore their boss ? Peter ( Ron Livingston ) does all of this in " Office Space , " a hilarious real-life parody that deals with something not many films do : Work . In this case , Peter works at Inotech , or something ending in " tech , " where there is an odd assortment of characters , including his boss who talks just like your boss , with really weird expressions , and Milton , a stuttering , mumbling , glasses-wearing freak whose office cubicle gets moved so many times during the duration of the film , we eventually see his desk in the basement . ( Where his boss tells Milton to get down on his hands and knees and get rid of their roach infestation problem . ) One day Peter just decides that he no longer feels like going to work , and so he stops going , simple as that . Soon his pesky boss is calling him every few minutes , but Peter ignores the calls . Soon he goes in for an interview with casual clothes on , and the interviewers , so impressed by Peter's casualness , actually give him a raise . But Peter then finds out they are firing his friends / co-workers , so Peter and his two friends use a scheme to rob the Inotech company of " fractions of a penny . " Peter says he heard of this before , and his friend says , " Yeah , they did it in ' Superman III . ' " That's one of the things I love about this movie . The way the characters are so blunt . I love when Peter's friend says about how the penny-taking scheme was used in " Superman III , " because I don't believe I've ever heard a character in a film reference another film's identical plot so bluntly . Director Mike Judge really puts everything out there , he doesn't hold back . Other films might wink at " Superman III's " plot , but he actually references it , and like I said before , I don't think that I've ever seen this done before or since . " Office Space " is the victim of clever writing . It is based on animated shorts called " Milton , " and I can't say it's too surprising as all the characters in this film could easily be cartoon characters , especially Milton . Most of them have dorky glasses , moustaches , and greasy hair . They all look like weird hybrids that could only spawn in the office cubicles . The director , Mike Judge , creator of " Beavis and Butthead , " gets some clever things in this film . The best scene in the entire movie is when three office employees take a broken fax machine out into an open field and smash it up with a baseball bat . One of the employees gets vicious with the thing , smashing it with his foot and jumping on it . The other two men , including Peter , have to restrain him . Anyone who has a job should see " Office Space . " Anyone who likes funny stuff should see " Office Space . " And that's that . stars - John Ulmer
Very entertaining with just the right blend of comedy and horror !	THE FRIGHTENERS has just the right blend of comedy and horror , and will please most audiences . Director Peter Jackson did a great job directing this film , and Michael J . Fox gives one of his most unusual performances as a " ghost buster " who has a rare gift that allows him to see the dead . All in all , a unique film that is very different from its competition in the horror drama and really only falls apart towards the end , when it resorts to the typical slasher ending with plot twists . Apart from the end , it's sure to keep you entertained throughout ! stars JOHN ULMER
Not an indictment of McDonald's but rather a general warning to America : we aren't getting any smaller	In 2002 I was overweight and eating way too much . For about a year , due to location and time issues , I thrived on a diet of Burger King , McDonald's , and Pizza Hut . I used to be able to eat an entire pizza . Sometimes I'd eat a Tombstone for lunch , then another for dinner ; or maybe get a King Size Burger King meal and eat the entire thing in one sitting . The regular size pizzas weren't enough for me - eventually I had to get the New Yorker at Pizza Hut because it was bigger than all the others . No , I wasn't the only person in the family , so others ate it , as well . But I ate most of it . And after a year on this diet I was about 180 and out of shape . I found myself aggravated with the way I looked , felt , ate , and reacted to standard physical issues . I even began to develop back problems . It starts as any other addiction - alcohol , drugs or tobacco . It triggers our brains . Next time you're hungry , look at a picture of a McDonald's burger on a TV commercial and see what your stomach does to you . Then go look in your fridge at a piece of celery . Quite a difference , huh ? I wasn't severely obese and in fact I'm kind of big and bulky by nature so a lot of the weight was just due to my general size . But I knew I had to lose the extra weight so one day I just said , " To hell with it . " I quit eating pizza , I started working out and lifting weights . I took up running and other physical activities and watched my diet - high protein , low fat and calories . A lot of lean meats and natural vegetables and fruit . Eventually I lost all the excess weight . I'm now about 130 and gained around 20 pounds of muscle so I lost about 70 - 75 pounds from December 03 to December 04 . I watched " Super Size Me " with all this in mind . I had been through all this . I could relate . And I knew precisely what filmmaker Morgan Spurlock was trying to say - many people misunderstand the film . I've heard friends and reviewers say , " Of course you're going to gain weight if you eat at McDonald's every day , no one does THAT ! " Well , first of all , that's not Morgan's point . Its message isn't , " Blame it on the food companies ! " " Super Size Me " promotes a message to viewers : it is equally our fault . Yes , we're bombarded with ads , hidden facts and misleading marketing . McDonald's in particular has such a firm grasp on America as a whole that it's rather frightening . But Morgan's point is that we can't blame America's obesity solely on the fast food companies - it starts with us . We need to start cutting back on fast food . Morgan presents facts from doctors and uses himself as proof - too much can seriously harm your health , and only two of one hundred doctors in the film recommended you should eat at McDonald's ( or any fast food chain ) more than a few times a _ year _ . That means for the people on the go who stop by McDonald's or Burger King or Pizza Hut or Wendy's for a quick bite are risking a lot . They're paying out of pocket for non-nutritive , fatty , calorie-loaded , heart-clogging food . Morgan isn't saying with " Super Size Me " that we should all go out and sue the burger companies . He isn't saying we should " never " eat fast food . He's saying we're becoming too closely associated with the franchises ; twenty , thirty years ago it was a treat , a luxury ; now it's hard to imagine a child under the age of 5 not knowing who Ronald McDonald is . And that's kind of scary .
George Lucas presents a grim Kubrick-style vision of the future - " Star Wars " fans will be surprised !	This is simply a solid , well-made film , produced on a low budget and directed by George Lucas based on his early student film of ( roughly ) the same title . ( Which is included on the Director's Cut edition of the DVD . ) Fans of " A Clockwork Orange , " " 1984 , " " Brazil , " and similar films about oppressive bureaucracies will love this . It's a grim and gritty vision of the future in which people are controlled and monitored ( think Big Brother on a large scale ) . Robert Duvall ( THX 1138 being his " assigned name " ) breaks the laws of the world by falling in love , engaging in sex and therefore rebelling , placing him and his love in danger . This is a very clear moral story and allusion to politics and so on and so forth . It excels as both story and study . Duvall gives a good performance ( his breakthrough role in " The Godfather " would come next year ) but the real surprise here is Lucas , who goes for a Kubrick-like edge to his film that really separates it from his later work . You won't believe this is from the guy who created Jar-Jar Binks . If anyone accuses George Lucas of being the schmaltzy sell-out he has now become , direct them to this film in order to prove that , at one point in his life , he really did have a bleak outlook on life and the future , and it didn't start with the words " A long time ago in a galaxy far , far away . . . " .
Funny stuff , but probably selective taste . I prefer it over " . . . Holy Grail " in some ways .	" Monty Python's the Meaning of Life " is a really bizarre addition to the boys ' resume . It's darker and far naughtier than the PG-rated " Monty Python and the Holy Grail . " It may not be as controversial as " Life of Brian " but it's still pretty risqué all considered . For example , the sperm song - sung by a group of pre-teens and very young children - would cause an outrage today . I'm surprised it didn't back then . But if you know anything about me ( which I'm assuming you don't , or at least I hope you don't ) I prefer dark comedy most of the time and I like the bitter edge of " Meaning of Life . " Yeah , it's scattered . It's silly . It's not perfect . It's a bit redundant at times and lacking a point . But that's the point . You'll find a lot of Gilliam's and Jones ' work is like that . Gilliam opens the film with his short about office workers who set out to sea in their buildings and attack neighboring skyscrapers . It's an odd little film , but inventive and typically Gilliam with all the outrageous colorful sets - similar to sets he'd use later on in the late eighties with " The Adventures of Baron Manchuesen . " Then Jones takes over and delivers a series of gags involving life - birth , adolescence , maturity , sexual education , adulthood , romance , eating ( and over-eating of course ) , retirement , tourism , death , and so on and so forth . The funniest skit is probably the organ donor bit , although Eric Idle's song gets a bit long . Nevertheless it's a trippy and well-animated sequence when he does begin singing . ( The lyrics are pretty raunchy at times , too , as is the background animation . ) The DVD is cool , a 2-disc collector's treatment with insightful documentaries and commentaries . I overall kind of prefer this darker edge of the Pythons and think it's funnier and more daring than " The Holy Grail " in some ways . For some reason this is considered the weakest Python film - I can somewhat understand the reasoning behind it , but nonetheless I find it very funny at times and quite beautifully filmed .
Good , underrated sequel .	There's an extra fine line between recycling material and straying from material . When sequels are different from the original , people complain . When they're too close , people say they're just remakes . This is why I think people generally don't enjoy the thought of film sequels . But I'll admit it . I like sequels . When they are deserving or done right , I enjoy them . When I meet likable characters I don't mind seeing them again . Now , sometimes there should never be sequels to movies with likable characters . Sometimes there can't be ( what would " The Usual Suspects II " be about ? ) . But sometimes , like with " Ghostbusters , " sequels can be a good thing . Sometimes they're done very well ( " The Godfather Part II , " " Aliens , " " Terminator 2 , " " Toy Story 2 , " " X-Men 2 " ) . Sometimes . . . not ( " Braveheart 2 " - - oh , wait , never mind , that doesn't exist ) . To make a successful sequel , you have to be a truly great filmmaker . It takes a genius to be able to continue a story with the same characters without straying too far from the original source material , and without losing sight of the original's purpose . ( That's why so many die hard fans of " Terminator 3 " were upset by the ending - - me included - - but hey , the rest of the film was pretty darn good as far as action sequels go . ) " Ghostbusters II " is , I feel , a very good sequel , because it continues the story of the four Ghostbusters , while still sustaining the sights of the first film , and the humor , too . It got bashed by critics and audiences alike when it first hit theaters five years after the original , but what can I say ? I enjoy it . In fact , if memory serves me correctly , I saw the sequel before the original , which may have something to do with my love of the film . The Ghostbusters ( Bill Murray , Dan Aykroyd , Harold Ramis , and Ernie Hudson ) have been plagued by numerous lawsuits since the opening of their prosperous business , and a court has ordered them to close down their business . But when a mysterious slime haunts Dana ( Sigourney Weaver ) , they come back out of retirement to investigate . Unfortunately , they are arrest , right after discovering that New York City is about to be taken over by an ectoplasmic purple goo flowing beneath the city's highways . And Dana's newborn baby is becoming possessed by an evil spirit - - could the two incidents be related ? Surely not . As the end of " Ghostbusters " had a giant Stay Puff'd man , " Ghostbusters II " has the Statue of Liberty . Yes , that's right , the good IL ' boys enter the Statue of Liberty and walk around New York City extended high above the ground . This sounds corny , yes ? Well , it is , but so was the first film . It's meant to be . Corniness is all part of the fun , after all , isn't it ? Bill Murray is just as funny as he was in the first film , while Aykroyd and Ramis continue their great co-star roles . People who thought that there wasn't enough black in the original " Ghostbusters " will be happy to know that Ernie Hudson is in this one from the beginning . I enjoyed this film . I liked the purple goo lurking beneath New York City - - it adds the distinct silliness to the film that the first had . People can complain about " Ghostbusters II " all they want , but I - - for one - - think it's a great sequel to a great comedy .
If you're used to the " Simpsons " of today , you won't recognize this .	I purchased the " Simpsons " first and second season box sets a couple years ago , and what I was most astonished at is the shift in animation ( more so than the humor itself ) - the Simpsons look more like the Berenstain Bears than the familiar yellow cartoon characters we've grown accustomed to over the years . The animation is rough , edgy and the transitions are awkward - there are no quick cuts punctuated by clips from the " Simpsons " theme song ( which is what they use today to often transition scenes ) - all of this isn't instantly noticeable , but after seeing older episodes a couple times I started to realize what was subconsciously making it feel like an entirely different television show . Still , they had to start somewhere , and for what it is this is a very good pilot for the TV show . It takes place at Christmas time ( obviously ) . Mr . Burns announces that there will be no Christmas bonuses this year , meaning less spending money . Bart goes to the mall and gets a tattoo , and when Marge has it removed , it costs them all of their Christmas stash . Homer takes advice from Barney and dresses up as Santa Claus at the mall , then bets on a dog at a local race track with the poor amount of money he's earned , but things continue to spiral downhill and Homer is left feeling like a failure - until , of course , everything is wrapped up quite nicely ( without spoiling it ) . Compared to episodes from Seasons 4 & 5 this is a rather flat and poorly animated " Simpsons " fare . However , when you take into account that this was the pilot and the start of everything , you know they had to start somewhere and , all considered , this was a good place to begin .
Hugely clever and loving homage to the serials of the 1940s and ' 50s	This forgotten gem from 1982 was made by Steve Martin and Carl Reiner after the success of " The Jerk . " In my opinion , " The Jerk " is superior if only due to its oddball silliness , but technically speaking " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " is probably better . And I do think it's still a very good comedy , sadly forgotten over the years . It is hugely original and one of the only films I know of to do such a thing . Essentially it places Steve Martin into B-movie serials of the ' 40s and ' 50s , so he can talk to Humphrey Bogart and James Cagney . When I first heard of this , I thought maybe they used advanced techniques to literally place Steve Martin IN the previous movies . They don't . Instead , they painstakingly recreate sets from the older films , and shoot footage of Martin . Then , they cut away to shots from the older films , and then back to Martin . Reiner often uses substitutes from behind when Martin is interacting with them in the scene , in one frame . I do believe now with the advent of CGI and so on and so forth this could be done even better , technically speaking , and we could literally place Steve Martin in pre-existing films , rather than watching him interact around them . In my opinion it's cleverer and harder to do what they did here . For the times , this must have been incredibly modern and unseen . Since " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " we've seen animation combined with actors ( " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " ) and a few other such projects , but " Plaid " remains one of a kind due to its sheer love of the material it is spoofing . The jokes are sometimes a bit too silly and over-the-top , but it's still a great little comedy . Steve Martin is at his best here before he started making stuff like " Cheaper by the Dozen . " Martin and Reiner's trio of slapstick comedy - - " The Jerk , " " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " and " The Man with Two Brains " - - offer plenty of laughs and I'd highly recommend " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " to any film buff who's searching for something unique and different .
Good documentary . Not the best , but good .	An interesting look at the making and behind scenes of Total Recall . Arnold Schwarznegger does new interviews on this DVD special feature , and we see old interviews with other actors . So what ? Who cares if they're new or old . I don't . Buy the spec . Edition Total Recall DVD like I did , and I'm sure you'll be interested in a lot of the other features as well .
One of the most underrated films of the past decade and a gripping character study	No , I'm not joking . And no , I'm not just saying this because I'm a De Niro fan . I admit when he makes mistakes - - " Rocky and Bullwinkle " for example - - but the critics really took a beating on De Niro when this was released and I think the criticism was wholly unfair . In my opinion " The Fan " is one of the best thrillers of its kind , up until the messy conclusion ( which is stupid , far-fetched and disappointing ) . It reeks of Hollywood interference - as if test screenings failed and the corporates demanded a re-shoot , or something . The rest of the movie seems too honest to deserve such a horrible ending . De Niro plays Gil , an obsessive baseball fan who takes a liking to newly recruited Giants player Bobby ( Wesley Snipes ) , whose contract was some $40 million for the team . Others are skeptics , but Gil believes in Bobby , even after an injury lowers his batting average and fans everywhere cry bloody outrage . Gil decides to take matters into his own hands by " helping " Bobby - - until the baseball player turns on his fans and Gil feels betrayed and works up a revenge scheme . The plot summary for this may sound stupid , but I like it because of the depth added to the characters . The film really builds up insight into Gil , a failing knife salesman who has a strange obsession with the Rolling Stones , baseball and violence . In fact the subtleties are what make this movie succeed past others of its genre . We don't understand what's going on with the Rolling Stones at first . " Sympathy for the Devil " is playing on Gil's car radio and later some more songs , and then inside his room we catch a brief glimpse of a Rolling Stones shrine with pictures of Mick Jagger . . . maybe Gil is in fact a repressed homosexual ? Or perhaps before he took a liking to baseball he stalked the Stones as well . It's my opinion that Gil is a continuation of the Travis Bickle character from " Taxi Driver . " It's like seeing him 20 years onwards . The obsessions , compulsions and behavioral problems are all the same - - in fact , if anything , worse than before . I really do like this movie for the most part . Up until its conclusion it's well-made , a taught character study that doesn't rely on stupid action sequences for effect . It takes its time studying Gil and most of the film is indeed dedicated to revealing his true nature , which is rare for a Hollywood film these days , and especially rare for a Tony Scott film . I don't understand why all the critics hated this , I think it's one of my favorite guilty pleasures .
Quite possibly one of the tn best films of all time . . .	There are a great many reasons for the extraordinary success of " Fargo . " One of the reasons is the uproar it caused upon release when nosy little reporters found out it was not really based on true events like the disclaimer says at the beginning of the film . Then there was the tragedy of the Japanese woman who went looking for the buried stash of money and froze to death . The press had , what movie characters always call , a " field day " with this story . They overlooked the fact that she had left behind a suicide note and was informed by police the story was false upon arrival in Minnesota , where she was picked up by a worried police officer . She had a death wish . And the other reason for success is , of course , because the movie is one of the best of all films - - a true " story " if ever there was one . It's more than a scathing social satire , more than a dark comedy , more than a great drama with a fabulous story filled with irony and coincedences and morals and so on and so forth . It's more than a great movie . It's superb . Marge Gunderson has become a sort of cultural character . People quote her like the Terminator or Charles Foster Kane or George Bailey or Darth Vader . She's so famous that I do not think many people realize Marge essentially comes in around forty minutes into the 98-minute movie . Yet that's what people think of when they hear the word " Fargo " - - Marge Gunderson - - and so it just shows what an impact a film like " Fargo " made . And not only impact , but the remembrance of characters we love to remember . Marge provides a sort of balance between the wild and the crazy . She is the moral character of the story who juggles the two and tries to keep them from falling . When the film starts to get violent or ironic Marge steps in to sort out the mess . The Coen Brothers , Ethan and Joel , obviously have a firm grasp on the actuality of storytelling as opposed to filmmakers who can simply put a story on screen - - ignoring whether it provides any sort of actual storytelling at all . I think we all remember the first moment Marge wakes up in bed and receives the phone call . She drives out to the barren , frosty highway with a view of Minnesota that stretches for miles , and investigates the crime scene of a most brutal murder . Three people haev been murdered : A cop , and two passersby . The villain ( s ) ? Unknown . ( Regarding the killer : " And by the size of his feet he looks like a big fella ' ! " ) The murders were , of course , all coincedental , having to do with a simple yet oddly complex plot : Jerry Lundegaard ( William H . Macy ) has debts he is unable to pay , so he hires two crooks , Carl ( Steve Buscemi ) and Gaeur ( Peter Stormare ) to kidnap his wife , Jean ( Kristin Rudrud ) . Unfortunately , their plan did not go to . . . er . . . plan , and they had to kill three people along the way . The point where Gauer shoots the police officer who has pulled the men over for not displaying the proper tags on their vehicle is funny . And yet when you really think about it , that scene shouldn't be funny at all . But it is . The Coen Brothers know how to make it funny . They are like experts of the dark humor - - when Carl says , " Whoa , Daddy ! " and has that speckle of blood on his face , I always burst out in laughter . It sounds sick , but strangely , it isn't . The dialogue in " Fargo " is just as excellent as the film's twisty little plot . Frances McDormand rightfully won an Oscar for her portrayal of Marge Gunderson . She speaks with the perfect accent of , what the Coen Brothers call , the language " Minnesota Nice " - - where people are always cheery , even when they're being mean . It's just something inbred into citizens of Minnesota . And even when the worst things are happening to characters , you're smiling , because who doesn't love to hear , " Gee , golly , gee whiz , " throughout a movie , and who doesn't think it's funny ? " Fargo " is the type of film you can watch over and over . Sometimes I think to myself that I'm just going to watch a scene or two , but as soon as the credits start the film has my interest and never lets go . It's the odd sort of delightful little film that keeps the viewer's interest for the first time up through the fiftieth time and beyond . The film's plot takes twist after twist and we can identify ever so much with the character of Jerry as all his well-thought-out plans go to waste , causing his debt to become even worse and his life even more ruined than it already is . Steve Buscemi , as Carl , is just as much a scene-stealer as Marge Gunderson ( I love to type that name ) , and Jerry is just as much a lovable character as someone who hasn't hired two crooks to kidnap his wife . That's the secret to " Fargo " - - or at least part of the secret . We like the characters , simply because we know they don't really mean any harm . Harm just happens to find them . stars . - John Ulmer
Not a perfect film , but very good - Norton's performance is the highlight	" American History X " is a bold and disturbing movie about family , racism and our own self-perceptions . Its main character is Derek ( Edward Norton ) , a neo-Nazi skinhead who is released from jail to find his younger brother ( Edward Furlong ) descending down the same corrupt path as he once walked . In jail Derek learns a few things about life , and racism , or more appropriately , himself , and after becoming a free man again takes it upon himself to set his brother on the straight and narrow path . " American History X " is not a pleasant motion picture . It begins in flashback , as Derek murders two black kids trying to break into his car . His brother , who idolizes Derek and later mimics his lifestyle , witnesses this event . It's a good message about negative influences , along with everything else . Much has been made of the film's controversy and lawsuits . Director Tony Kaye disowned the film after Norton ( allegedly ) re-edited footage to give himself more screen time . Kaye tried to have his name changed on the film credits , but by this time he had already taken out a complaint in several magazines , which are against the rules of the Director's Guild . He was therefore denied the opportunity to credit the work as " directed by Humpty Dumpty . " Then , musical band Anti-Hero complained to New Line Cinema ( the film's international distributor ) because one of the Nazi characters featured a tattoo of their band . They later wrote a song , called " NLC , " bashing the company . Despite the hard-edged controversy it's still a very good film , above all else extremely well-acted and featuring a gripping storyline ? even if the direction isn't always up to par . Edward Norton is simply superb in his role , showing extremely raw talent a mere two years after his film debut ( in the Richard Gere thriller " A Primal Fear " ) . Norton careens between the role of a raging , vicious supremacist and a kindler , gentler version of the same character ; a metamorphosis so convincing it's hard to believe it's just one actor . The rest of the cast is good as well ? Furlong gives the best performance of his career and Beverly D'Angelo and Stacy Keach have strong supporting roles . ( D'Angelo in particular , who portrays a sleazy alcoholic ? a stretch compared to her usual Normal Mom roles in the " Vacation " movies . ) " American History X " isn't exactly rewarding of all the praise it has been lavished since its release ( mainly from viewers rather than critics , who were less kind ) ? it isn't the best movie of its kind or even a flawless one . The black-and-white photography isn't on the same level , visually , as " Raging Bull " or " Schindler's List . " The preaching is a bit heavy-handed at times . But it still manages to convey an important lesson and boasts great acting complimented by an ( overall ) impressive , gut-wrenching screenplay . A must-see for all who can stomach its content .
An interesting documentary that effectively summarizes the events that took place in Point Pleasant , WV	I'm not a big conspiracy nut and find it hard to believe UFOs would travel hundreds of millions of lightyears just to surface above redneck towns in the midwest for five minutes before dashing back to their home world . Don't these aliens have to pay for gas ? Traveling hundreds of millions of lightyears has gotta be pretty expensive after a while . And why not visit somewhere with , well , you know . . . people who AREN'T going to try to shoot advanced alien space craft with shotguns that belonged to their granddaddys ? Despite this the events in Point Pleasant , WV in 1966 and 1967 are hard to ignore . I may not believe that most of our UFO sightings are real but I do think there are some odd species of animals out there that are as of yet undiscovered . Famous cryptzoologist Bernard Huvelman once said he believed dinosaurs still existed in remote regions of the world and another scientist suggested based on this theory that pterodactyls could have become trapped in caves during the prehistoric age , re-surfacing in more recent years . ( This would explain the " Thunderbird " sightings in the 1970s , one of which resulted in a small child being carried away hundreds of yards across a corn field . Numerous eye witnesses saw this event and it was reported in the papers - the child was traumatized and the family still stands by their claims . A bird watcher then caught footage of two of these alleged " Thunderbirds " taking flight from trees along a lake . ) In this documentary Loren Coleman suggests the Thunderbirds are the same as the Mothman , Jersey Devil and other such mysterious beasts . Others such as John A . Keel ( who wrote the book the film was based upon ) believe the Mothman is a demonic being - perhaps even an angel . It's hard to deny the existence of SOME type of weird creature after reading about the sightings and watching this documentary . It was made to coincide with the film's release and as such feels a bit like a cheap maketing plot , but it's also surprisingly effective in summarizing the key events in the Mothman saga . The people being interviewed are clearly not weirdos or crazy kooks - they're average , ordinary people and when they all give their stories on their Mothman encounters it's hard not to believe them . The fact that thousands of people reported sightings during that time - including police officers - also adds credence . What I did NOT know that this documentary pointed out was that there were so many other occurrences around the era of the Mothman sightings . Men in black tried to grab one of the Mothman witnesses and drag her away into a government-licensed vehicle - she escaped and locked herself in her apartment . Her husband - now in his ' 70s - recalls how her dress was torn from the struggle . Then Keel explains how a secretary at the county newspapers had received threatening phone calls after having reported on the Mothman . Men in black had also been spotted in farmer's fields - and there were numerous reports filed by farmers that their livestock had been killed , their anuses torn out . Keel explains that radioactivity gets trapped inside anuses and this would most likely be why the strange men in black had killed the cattle and removed their body parts . It was later revealed there was heavy pollution in the area due to the TNT mines not being properly shut down in the ' 30s ( or around that time ) and some believe the Mothman was a genetic mutation . This documentary really does creep you out once it's over because it's hard to NOT let it convince you that something went on back in the ' 60s - Keel even closes the documentary by pointing out that Mothmen have been sighted before September 11th , Chernobel and other major disasters . Whether they are omens or figment of imagination , it's a good documentary to view in addition to the film because it really highlights the truths from the movie and what was just made up for entertainment value .
Great fun in the vein of " Indiana Jones " . . .	" The Mummy " is an adventurous yarn in the vein of " Indiana Jones . " It's a lot of fun , very charming , and never tries to be more than what it is . What is it ? An entertaining summer flick which is not only worth seeing , but perhaps even owning . It's one of those fun movies you can return to over and over again and never grow tired of doing so . It's hardly a remake of the Universal classic of the same name . It's merely a new way to tell the story with the same basic idea - a murderous mummy is brought back from the dead . This time we have a hero and heroine who must stop him before he takes over the world , or something along the line of world domination . The hero is Rick ( Brendan Fraser ) , a thief thriving off the very basics out in Egypt circa 1930 . Arrested and to be hanged , he is saved by the heroine ( Rachel Weisz ) , who believes he may hold the key to helping them find an ancient Egyptian kingdom buried under the sand , if I recall correctly ( though it has been a while since I've seen this ) . Little does she know what lurks beneath the sand near that old kingdom is none other than the remains of a man who was caught cheating on the king's wife years ago and mummified . Now , after unearthing the remains of the kingdom , the expedition led by our heroes come upon an ancient " Book of the Dead , " which , when read from , brings the ancient mummy back to life . Now he is out to kill , regenerate and bring back his old lover - pretty neat , huh ? I own " Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy , " a great movie spoofing the classic film . " The Mummy " isn't exactly a spoof but it's very tongue-in-cheek . It knows it isn't an Oscar-winner , it knows it stands nothing against the older film , and so it goes for pulp thrills . I actually believe that this film is a bit classy in execution - compared to many other entertainments floating around nowadays it stands as one of the only films to return to the roots of the pure adventure films like " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ( 1981 ) so successfully did . Brendan Fraser is a perfect choice for the lead star . Calm , but with ironic and sarcastic humor ; cool , but a strong lead . I wondered what it would have been like if they had casted an actor in his role who would have taken it all more seriously . I bet the results would have been disastrous . Fraser knows that this is all good fun , and he's having a good time playing his role with comedy . Every once and a while you can catch a wink at the screen that lets us know that he knows what he's doing . 2001 brought a sequel to " The Mummy " named , of all things , " The Mummy Returns . " I found it just as fun as this film though some critics begged to differ . Summer 2002 brought yet another " Mummy " film , this one a prequel called " The Scorpion King " - it was a following of a co-star of the first sequel . The Mummy was not in it at all . It was a horrible film that wasn't near as fun as this one . So I recommend you see " The Mummy " as soon as humanly possible . After that , see " The Mummy Returns . " Either way , you simply can't go wrong . stars . - John Ulmer
Those expecting silly slapstick humor will be disappointed .	The first time I saw " Parenthood " some number of years ago I hated it . I expected what was promised on the cover - - a silly slapstick-style comedy . Instead I got some sappy Ron Howard family drama with barely any laughs at all - - a serious film in the guise of a " comedy . " However on second viewing I didn't have any preconceptions about what the film was going to be and as a result I enjoyed it far , far more . I was surprised at the level of maturity there WAS in the film ; how well it balances the realistic family situations while remaining quite humorous . From the onset it's clear the film has a very dry ironic sense of humor - - adult , actually . The scene with Martin in the body of a child talking to the hot dog vendor at a ball game is classic stuff and a superb example of the style in this movie . Rick Moranis is really funny as the first-time father whose daughter is treated like Little Jack in " Meet the Fockers " - - he plays her classical music , teaches her advanced mathematics and grammar , and refrains her from playing with other children . The scene where Martin pretends to pull his thumb off and she freaks out is very good . Overall " Parenthood " will disappoint you if you're expecting a laugh-out-loud slapstick comedy . However if you want something a bit deeper and more poignant than your average Steve Martin comedy , this is a good example of how well Martin is at starring as " straight characters " and an honest examination of parenthood .
A satisfying whimsical comedy	Grady Tripp ( Michael Douglas ) is a struggling writer living in Pittsburgh can't seem to write anything . He is also a college professor and happens to impregnate the chancellor ( Frances McDormand ) . He also proceeds to seek the help of student James Leer ( Tobey Maguire ) in a quest to try and find a rare jacket that used to be owned by Marilyn Monroe ; and on top of all this , a college girl , Hannah Green ( Katie Holmes ) , who is boarding with Grady , seems to have a crush on him . " Wonder Boys " is based on a well-known book by Michael Chabon , which I have heard is very good , but which I have not read . As a result , I can't compare the two - chances are the book is better ( they almost always are ) but I wouldn't know . What I can commend are the efforts by director Curtis Hanson to resist from turning this into a crude little sex film . It's a witty , wonderful little comedy that has a heart for its characters , and sympathizes with all of them . If you're looking for a bunch of laughs , look elsewhere - this is not frequently funny , in-your-face stuff . But if you want a mature and smart film , " Wonder Boys " is a safe bet .
If you like the Crue , you'll like this	Motley Crue is a great hair metal band . I specify " hair metal " because as a regular rock band they're crap . Hair metal is a different style of music altogether and graded as such , the Crue are one of the all-time best . They've got the image , the sound , and the lyrics . The videos are another thing . Some of the ' 80s videos like " Home Sweet Home " were ridiculously cheesy but good fun . ( The opening with Nikki , Tommy , Vince and Mick answering their phones is just plain silly and looks like something from " Bill and Ted " or " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " . ) Later on they got a bit darker . " Girls , Girls , Girls " ( their best song tied with " Dr . Feelgood " ) follows the Crue as they ride their motorcycles to a strip club and watch babes strip down . The uncensored version includes nudity . " Dr . Feelgood " is a music video about a drug dealer and it's a bit reminiscent of " Scarface " starring Al Pacino . I didn't like it too much because I thought the bits with Vince singing were quite cheesy and annoying . The Crue have changed a lot over the years - image-wise and musically - and this presents all their stuff from ' 81 - 2000 . If you're a fan of the Crue or just getting into them now , it's a good place to start - along with the new " Red White & Crue " greatest hits compilation , which rocks .
Moments of brilliance , but it suffers from bad editing	There are moments in Peter Jackson's King Kong that are so powerful , remarkable and tender that , if compiled together , they would form perhaps the best film of the year . Then , there are the stilted , awkward segments intervening the better ones that make you wonder if Jackson's editor left the cutting room early on in post-production . Take , for example , a scene towards the climax of the picture , when the mighty ape Kong has placed the beautiful Ann ( Naomi Watts ) inside the safe structure of the Empire State Building . They stare longingly into each other's eyes for close to thirty seconds , before Kong disappears to the top of the skyscraper . Only a minute later , Ann has climbed up , too , and they stare into each other's eyes for another thirty seconds . Surely cutting one of these repetitive scenes would more artfully punctuate the beauty of the moment ? Showing it twice kind of negates the entire point of their exchange . The film also boasts some lapses in continuity and general plot progression ? Jackson intends on restoring a wealth of footage in an " extended " DVD edition next year , but he should have spent more time on the theatrical version . Jack Driscoll ( Adrien Brody ) is knocked unconscious at one point in the film ; the next time we see him , he's running through the streets of Manhattan . Characters from the Skull Island scenes also disappear once the film transports itself to New York City ? the most puzzling of whom happens to be the character of a rebellious teenage sailor . Jackson sets up his character arc , but never follows through . The last time we see him , he's floating in seaweed , gazing on as the other sailors capture King Kong . The essence of his inclusion in the film is totally lost , as is the case with most of the ship's crew in the movie . There's simply too much filler here ? characters , battles , and subplots . Whittling the film down to a couple hours would have made it more powerful , less sloppy and far more coherent . The film's technical qualities are also somewhat disappointing . The special effects , for the most part , are superb . But the editing is terrible . The slow-motion strobe effects get old real fast ? and don't really have a reason for existing . Such technical mediocrity was never present in 1930s movies , and certainly hasn't been used in mainstream motion pictures since it became a standard on the everyman's home video camera . It also seems to cut in at the worst times . Nevertheless , this is still a fine film , and contains some truly epic imagery . The performances , for the most part , are impressive ? Watts surpasses the late Fay Wray's original task of having screamed a lot when the camera was on her . Watts ' characterization of Ann is precious and believable , as the aspiring actress with moral values . Jack Black , as the ruthless movie director Carl Denham , is impressive in small doses . His first scene is appalling ? but from there onwards , it gets much better . As comic relief , he is a worthy addition ; it's when Black must handle the more serious moments that his dramatic inexperience shines through . Jackson's follow-up to his Lord of the Rings spectacles is a better film than any of the three ? more human , more entertaining , and more polished . Andy Serkis does a remarkable job of playing Kong ( through use of motion-capture technology ) and the CGI layering is , at times , leagues ahead of anything we've seen . But the film as a whole feels unfinished . There are times when the CGI looks ten years old , the editing is nonsensical and subplots , characters and action battles either go on too long or aren't fully developed . The 1933 Kong was a product of America's fascination with creature features , and it revolutionized the industry ( for better or for worse ) . Jackson's 2005 updating is a worthy attempt at recreating his favorite film , but it is not a flawless picture . It is arguable that three hours and seven minutes is a reflection of Jackson's inflated ego , but I don't think so . I think it's a reflection of Hollywood's standards . Combined , the three LotR movies have earned billions . Now , Jackson has free roam , and this power is part of the reason Kong fails at times . Having someone keep a leash on the director may have prevented him from making some of the mistakes he does with this movie . Hopefully the extended DVD will grant Jackson the opportunity to re-edit and sum up a few open ends next year , and fix a few technical problems also . Judged on its numerous merits , King Kong is one of the best films of 2005 . But the fact that this has been a disappointing year for movies may explain why .
A pleasant comedy with fine acting and an occasionally laugh-out-loud script by David Mamet . I think its rating deserves to be between 6 . 0 and 6 . 6 stars .	Some movies become forgotten over the years , and " We're No Angels " is one of them . It's not a great comedy , but it's not a bad one , either . It's far more serious and moralistic than I had ever imagined , and Robert De Niro and Sean Penn essentially run around posing funny faces for the camera throughout , whilst the Catholic religion is used as a structural backdrop . It's a very different sort of role for De Niro , whose comedy is usually a bit more sophisticated . Here he barely talks at all , and when he does , it's usually harsh barking or screaming or frustrated whispers . It's not De Niro's most memorable role but it's certainly an unusual one . A lot of the movie focuses on mishaps and misconceptions , as all of the movies from this genre do . It bears resemblance to last year's " School of Rock , " about a loser who was mistaken for a teacher . This time the loser is equal to a pair of two escaped convicts and the teacher position is likewise that of priests . The story all begins with Ned ( De Niro ) and Jimmy ( Penn ) escaping from a northern jail circa 1930 . After heading for the Canadian border , they find themselves pursued by a ruthless jail warden and a town of do-gooders . Luckily for the duo , right before they come to the Canadian border , they are mistaken for two long-lost Catholic priests , Fathers Brown ( Penn ) and O'Reilly ( De Niro ) . After given an introduction to the area by a fellow priest ( Hoyt Axton ) , they decide to hide out for a while using their new personas . No one would ever suspect a priest , right ? The problem is that Fathers Brown and O'Reilly are supposed to be two of the smartest priests alive , having written a controversial book about the true meaning of the chapter Revelations in the Bible . So you can imagine the fear that Jimmy experiences when he is asked to lead the church in a pray prior to a meal . Meanwhile , the mandatory romance is inserted into the movie , using Demi Moore's single , rough , over-protective mother as the love angle for De Niro's character . Demi spits out an unconvincing northern accent , as De Niro stares at her a lot with critical eyes and tries to get her into bed . The romance is not necessary but it seems a lot more worthwhile than most of the romances in some of these films . The movie is one of the most forgotten I have ever seen ; I'd never really heard of it prior to purchasing the newly-issued DVD . But I figured De Niro and Penn couldn't be that bad , and I was right . I think part of the reason so many people like to ignore it is that it doesn't poke fun at religion . It doesn't make the clergymen out to be strange idiots . Rather , it makes the two escaped convicts seem out-of-place in a heartwarming place . The spirituality affects Penn's character , Jimmy , and his final decision on the bridge that separates Canada from America is one that we have sensed was long coming since his fascination in the church grew . De Niro and Penn have two of the best faces in Hollywood , and a movie like " We're No Angels " uses this to its advantage . Making up for the long gaps of laughter , the director , Neil Jordan , focuses more on his two lead actors and their reactions to situations . Most of the time throughout the film , De Niro shrugs his shoulders a lot and emits low , agreeable groans from his throat in response to questions , while Penn looks confused and bewildered . There's a great scene where an eager-to-please clergyman ( John C . Reilly ) asks " Father Brown " something about his book , and Penn sort of stares at him for a few moments with searching eyes , trying to find a way out of the situation . For some reason , the mistaken identities setup has been a long-time fascination for Hollywood . Just look at " Some Like it Hot , " " Tootsie , " " Nuns on the Run , " " Sister Act , " " School of Rock , " etc . I think it's because we can all relate to a lot of the situations that the characters go through , and a lot of the embarrassment they suffer . We like to watch them ease their way out of dangerous areas and lie through their teeth . " We're No Angels " is one of the better examples of this formula executed quite well . It's not a terrific movie , but the actors are , and the script by David Mamet comes up with its own occasionally hilarious segments that make the movie uneven , but a lot more fun than you might expect . No , it's not great , but it's just funny - - and sweet - - enough to recommend . stars . - John Ulmer
Analyze This , That , and the Other Thing . . .	" Analyze That " is proof the critics can be wrong . Which probably means you shouldn't be listening to me , either . But you are , oh well . I guess I'll have to review the movie , now . The Boss and The Shrink are back in therapy : Paul Vitti ( Robert De Niro ) has been locked up in Sing-Sing for 850 days . Ben Sobel ( Billy Crystal ) has just lost his father . That's when he gets the call from Vitti . Vitti gives him the low-down : Someone is trying to kill Vitti in jail . Sobel hangs up , Vitti gets mad , so he fakes crazy , and Sobel gets called in ( since he is Vitti's psychiatrist ) . Sobel believes Vitti is cuckoo in the slammer , as he sees him singing tunes from " West Side Story " ( one of the funniest parts in the film ) . So Vitti is released into the custody of Ben Sobel . But on the ride to Sobel's house , Vitti snaps out of it , only to reveal that he is not crazy , but , in fact , quite well . Now Vitti must start a new life and get a real job - that involves working " from 9 to 5 ! " - and find out who is trying to kill him . . . and why . Perhaps I am mistaken , but " Analyze That " is funnier than " Analyze This . " Maybe it's just me , but I found it quite funny . I didn't think it was a " rip-off " sequel , there for " no artistic reason . " Sure , it's a sequel . Of course it's not going to be an Oscar-winner for originality ; I don't ask for that in a comedy . Honestly , can you think of any sequel ( other than the rare " Godfather Part II " film ) that is as good as the original in terms of reasons for being there ? All I know is that I think " Analyze That " had some very funny moments . Take , for instance , the scenes where Vitti is trying to get a new job . He becomes a car salesman for a day , and leads around a couple , showing them a nice car . " Look at that trunk - you could fit three bodies in there ! " he says . When they say they're going to think about it : " What's there to think about ? You've been busting my b @ lls for the last hour over this thing , asking me all these stupid questions , taking it for a test drive . . . so why don't you buy it ? " Scenes like these are hilarious . And while there are somewhat long sequences without any laughs , the laugh-out-loud scenes more than make up for those lacking . The only thing about this film that makes me drop the rating a notch is the execution of the last half hour . Just like the first movie , they set up a ridiculous " action " ending , that isn't action at all . Its ending is overlong and goes way too long without any laughs . But that is the only thing I didn't like about the movie . De Niro and Crystal have a real chemistry , even more so here than in the first film . De Niro steals the scenes he is in , and Crystal steals the scenes he is in , and when they are both on screen , you're not sure who to look at . I find Robert De Niro's latest journeys into comedy quite funny . He made a few comedies here and there in the past , but in the last three years he's coughed out some funny movies . " Analyze This , " " Meet the Parents , " " Analyze That , " and to a certain degree ( it was okay ) , " Showtime . " Perhaps I am confused . Maybe I need to see the first again . But having seen the original about twice , and " Analyze That " once , I can honestly say that I laughed more in " Analyze That " than I did watching " Analyze This . " And if that's not a good sequel , I don't know what is . Here's to " Analyze This , That , and the Other Thing " ! stars - John Ulmer
Surprisingly fun !	I must say that I didn't expect much sitting down to watch " Pitch Black , " but I got a lot back , in terms of excitement and pure fun . It's the type of flick where you can just lean back , relax , and have a great time just being entertained . This isn't a deep film by any means . Everything that it offers is either recycled or ripped off of other movies such as " Alien , " " Predator " or such . But when I watch a rip-off , I want it to be good , and this rip-off is great . It opens with a galaxy of stars . Some of the greatest films of all time open with this type of scene - " 2001 , " " Star Wars , " " Alien , " " Predator . " A ship is cruising through space when inside the entire cryogenically frozen crew is awoken . The ship has been hit by something . They crash land on a nasty little planet with three suns . Everyone flocks out of the ship when they find that their prisoner transport , Richard Riddick ( Vin Diesel ) , has escaped confinement . They scan the desert planet in search of him and eventually find him , but they have no way of getting their ship to fly again . They search the planet for water and civilization but it seems that everyone suddenly disappeared from the planet not too long ago . Then they find out that every 22 years the planets line up in a solar eclipse and the entire planet turns pitch black . There also happen to be hoards of aliens that thrive in darkness living on the planet - what are the chances ? They happen to be on the planet right as the eclipse happens - what are the chances ? And Riddick has a rare talent - he can see in the dark - again , what are the chances ? There seems to be a lot of coincedence in this movie , but a film like this isn't out to get Oscars for originality or believability . It's there to entertain the audience - it does so with ease . Vin Diesel is a big gorilla of a man with no acting talent whatsoever . But I've got to say if there's anyone who can fit the part of a trashy , homicidal felon it is Diesel . Listen to him mutter , " He did not know who he was fuing with . " Great stuff . The aliens in this movie are a mix between hammerhead sharks , those from " Alien " and Predators . They've got long , horizontal heads like a hammerhead , the quick-moving agility of the aliens , and the stealth of a Predator . I assume David Twohy ( director and writer of the movie ) didn't expect audiences to believe his creatures were truly something never seen before . At least I hope not . " Aliens Redux " might be a better name for this movie , but then again , it is better than both the second and third " Alien " films put together . In a time when apparently ended series are getting revived - " Terminator 3 , " " Alien 5 , " " Predator 3 , " " Alien vs . Predator " - " Pitch Black " stands out as a new series altogether . Two more sequels are planned . Let's just hope they don't get carried away . I can just picture it twenty-five years from now : " Aliens vs . Predator vs . Pitch Black Aliens : The Fight of the Year . " Fight of the Year title may be shared with the upcoming film " Freddy vs . Jason vs . Michael vs . Leatherface vs . Norman Bates vs . Alien vs . Predator vs . Terminator vs . James Cameron vs . Barny the Dinosaur . " .
Fun , underrated music video ( s )	This is included on the excellent AC / DC " Family Jewels " DVD collection . It was originally circulated on VHS but went out of print quite a few years back - - the Family Jewels is a great way for fans to relive this video , as well as many others , that have long since stopped appearing on television and video . " Fly on the Wall " was a 1986 AC / DC album that didn't make much of a fuss when it came out . The videos from that album take place in a small bar ( reminded me of the one in " Blues Brothers " ) wherein the videos themselves are placed between brief segments ( mostly humorous ) . It opens with two bouncers kicking out a paparazzi photographer , which causes a sleeping animated fly to awaken from his rest . Inside the bar , AC / DC begins to play the song " Fly on the Wall , " which is intercut with segments of the fly itself buzzing around . This type of back-and-forth segment-intercutting is done throughout the 26-minute video . It's quite odd and unique and I found it entertaining . A must-see for casual fans , a must-own for AC / DC fans ( I'm somewhere in between , myself - and I appreciated it very much ) .
Not flawless , but very funny and unexpectedly emotional .	Every time a new Kevin Smith movie comes out critics claim it's his " most mature work to date , " as if that's some type of goal he's been working towards his entire career . It happened with " Chasing Amy , " " Dogma " and again with " Jersey Girl . " In fact I haven't found a single review of " Jersey Girl " that hasn't mentioned it's his most mature film . So I'm not going to jump on that bandwagon with " Clerks II . " ( Because every other critic in the world seems to be doing that right now ? except , of course , for Joel Siegel . ) I will say , however , that this is his most emotionally in tune film to date . If the original " Clerks " displayed the non-sentiments of apathetic workers , then " Clerks II " shows their sympathetic sides : they're grown up now , and they're starting to care . When an old high school acquaintance ( played by Jason Lee ) , who has made his millions through the Internet , decides to mock the clerks and boast about his riches in front of them , they feel hurt . In the original film Randal Graves ( Jeff Anderson ) was more of a pest for Dante ( Brian O'Halloran ) . Now we feel as if the two rely on each other for counterbalance . The ending is Smith's most open and emotional that I've seen yet , and ? in a strange way ? is almost heartbreaking . I don't know if it's Kevin Smith's most mature film , but " Clerks II " is certainly his deepest . Yet it isn't free of errors , either . The dialogue that Smith has become famous for ? which seemed fresh and funny back when " Clerks " came out ? is a bit stale now . Kevin spends a lot of time on his website's Internet message boards and has even visited IMDb's forums to discuss films , and some of the dialogue in " Clerks II " sounds like it was copied and pasted straight from a message board argument . A good example of this would be Dante and Randal's argument over the racist term " porch monkey . " Dante's words , as in the original , seem as if they are being read from a paper ( or , in today's world , a computer screen ) rather than ringing entirely true . The structure of what the characters say is a bit too calculated , as if they've been thinking this stuff up their whole lives . I suppose the best term to describe the dialogue in a Smith movie is " self-aware . " Sometimes a bit too much so . It's as if every character in the film has a theory on life and feels the need to tell us . Becky ( Rosario Dawson ) has a long discussion with Dante about the primal instincts of human beings and why she thinks marriage goes against our primordial urges . Uh , these existentialist topics are being discussed in a fast food joint ? That's Kevin Smith for ya . But the movie is funny . Very funny . The characters seem like old friends who have been away for too long . Anyone who enjoyed the original will at least feel somewhat nostalgic while watching this ? especially if you were a part of the slacker generation that the original appealed to . The movie opens in grainy black-and-white and quickly switches to color , and there are many in-joke references to the earlier film . Even the run time is an hour and thirty-seven minutes . If you didn't pick up on that joke then you should probably go watch the first film again . At the same time , people who haven't seen the first movie will get an equal kick out of this . It's not really a sequel ? it's a continuation of two lives . As such , there's no plot crossover from the original . You can walk into this knowing nothing about it and easily pick up on what's happening . When I heard " Clerks II " was going into production I was very skeptical ? especially back when its subtitle was " Passion of the Clerks " ? but I've got to hand it to Kevin Smith : this is one of his best movies , and a worthy successor to " Clerks . " The novelty might be gone and the slacker generation of a decade ago may be a thing of the past , but Smith's finally starting to learn how to expand his characters , and that's a fine point here . The acting may still be a bit hammy since both O'Halloran and Anderson are not trained thespians , but their comedic timing ? especially Anderson's ? are as good as ever . Randal's " simplistic analysis " of the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy is almost enough to warrant a viewing , and the ending moved me in a rather unexpected way . I'm not sure it deserved an eight-minute standing ovation at Cannes , but I have to admit that it's probably one of the better films I've seen so far this year .
A good documentary if rather self-important	Like most DVD fanatics I picked up the " Star Wars " boxset last Christmas when it came out . I was disappointed , to be honest . Apart from the fact that much more could have been included in terms of extra content ( did we need a video game demo taking up space on the fourth disc ? ) it also didn't include the original versions of the films - which , as far as I know , are those that practically everyone prefers . Nevertheless this insightful and exhaustive documentary - which covers the entire pre-production through post-production phase of each original " Star Wars " film - almost redeems the DVD collection . Although it is fairly " full of itself " as IMDb commentator Bob the Moo notes , it DOES feature a good wealth of information - including some facts I hadn't heard about before ( e . g . Jedi was given a fake working title so fans wouldn't sneak onto the set ) . If you're a fan of " Star Wars , " definitely check this out - if you don't want to dish out the cash , it's playing on A & E right now . But in my opinion it's not as great as it could have been because it falls victim to George Lucas ' " cleanness " - we're led to believe " Star Wars " is the most important and defining event of the past century and that turned me off a bit .
Another entertaining Cagney adventure !	Cagney stars as Nick , a newspaper reporter who travels to Japan . Once there the dastardly Japs ( remember , this was during WWII , all Japs were evil back then ) decide to interrogate him for information and so on and so forth . He doesn't cooperate . He puts up a fight , acquires a love interest , and so on and so forth . The plot is kind of typical - just so happens to be a spare attractive female lying around for him to pick up along the way , for example - but Cagney makes it work . This isn't on the same level as " Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye " or " White Heat " but it's still , for what it is , an entertaining adventure story with Cagney in fine form . Worth seeing if you're a fan of the actor , otherwise , you might wanna give it a miss .
Surprisingly dated in most areas , but still as disturbing as it was in 1973 . . .	William Friedkin's " The Exorcist " is disturbing , scary and ultimately haunting at the same time . Viewing it now , in 2003 , it seems a bit dated in some areas - - but the film's gruesome depictions of possession are still as horrifying as then . Part of the fear , I think , is because it's so real . Let's face it , as scary as Norman Bates ( or Freddy Krueger , for newer generations ) may be , the chances of him walking into your house and repeatedly stabbing you are slim . But if you believe in any sort of religion , obviously you believe in God , Satan , demons , or some of the above . And , if you want to take it a step further , the Bible itself says demons are all around us , invisible to the eye and some , almost definitely , incarnate . Scary , huh ? Stories of demons , ghosts , and so on go back thousands of years . They've always given me the creeps , mainly because the supernatural is a whole other universe . There are no human boundaries for those from the parallel universe , if you believe in such things . I come from a Christian upbringing . Whether you have religion or not , it's still disturbing - - but if you do have faith it's all the more terrifying . I don't know if you do , but watching " The Exorcist " with faith sure will scare the bejeezes out of you . Chris MacNeil ( Ellen Burstyn ) is a struggling actress raising her twelve-year-old daughter , Regan ( Linda Blair ) , all by herself . Her husband has left her and refuses to speak with Regan , even on her 12th birthday . Regan has been experiencing some mild disturbances lately , ranging from her bed shaking to speaking evil and / or hurtful sentences to close friends and family . And so the realization finally hits that a demon has possessed Regan . Satan himself , supposedly , though it could just be a demon claiming to be Satan . He terrorizes the girl's body and inflicts harm . Regan turns into a beast - - she has no idea what she's saying or doing . Her soul is still in the body somewhere . . . but the demon has completely taken control . And so an exorcism takes place , held by two priests , one of whom ( Jason Miller ) has recently started to lose his faith after the death of his elderly mother , and one of whom is a sort of legendary figure ( Max Von Sydow ) . Will they be able to rid the demon from Regan's body ? When " The Exorcist " came out in 1973 , it scared everyone . Audiences held their breath . There are reports of movie-goers passing out in their seats . One man is rumored to have sued Warner Bros . because the film caused him to faint and hit his head on the edge of the seat in front of him . All this because of one horrifying film . Even stranger are the rumors of deaths on and off the set - - the character of Burke Dennings , played by the famous Irish actor , died on location during filming , and so the author of the novel and script , William Peter Blatty , had to go back and make revisions . He and director William Friedkin eventually decided that the best thing to do would be killing off his character early on . It worked , and it only added a more evil overtone to the movie , and it really let the audience know that the demon wasn't just mean - - it was homicidal . Other such rumors have been reported on the Steven Spielberg produced " Poltergeist . " Many of the cast members later died in odd cases . Perhaps it's a subtle message that we're not dealing with something to be taken lightly . Luckily , no one watching the movie did . " The Exorcist " has dated in its past thirty years , yes , but the horrific possession scenes are still as gut-wrenchingly disturbing as they were back in ' 73 . Hard to imagine that a film so gory and sickening was made prior to some of the teen flicks available on the market nowadays . But , if there's one thing you can credit " The Exorcist " for , it's that it isn't another teen slasher movie . This is an intelligent and surprisingly disturbing horror film . Some films , specifically those that are set in an unspecified year , date very well . " The Exorcist , " in my opinion , hasn't dated quite as well as one would hope . But the scenes that everyone remembers , the scenes that really scare people , are just as terrifying as they were thirty years ago . And so , in that sense , the film hasn't dated at all . stars . - John Ulmer
I didn't like it before - now I do	It's funny ; I used to really hate " Get Shorty . " Well , perhaps " hate " is too strong a word ? I simply disliked it . I didn't get it . Everyone always praised it for being so hip , smart , and clever ; I thought it was just a distasteful stab at Hollywood , a one-joke pony with a Tarantino complex . It wasn't until I watched the film more recently that I realized just how well made it actually is , and how the humor ? which is never really as outrageous as it is subtle and chuckle-inducing ? is perfectly pointed and aimed squarely at its target : the film industry . John Travolta plays Chili Palmer , a Mafia loan shark collector whose boss dies of a heart attack one unexpected night . Positions change and soon Chili is working for Ray " Bones " ( Dennis Farina ) , a dim-witted-but-violent madman who orders Chili to collect life insurance on a guy who died in a plane crash before paying back his loan . Chili talks to the widow and finds out the guy is still alive , hiding out in Vegas with his fortunes , gambling it all away . Chili makes the trek to Vegas and is directed towards Hollywood to collect a debt from a Hollywood Z-grade movie director named Harry ( Gene Hackman ) . Chili decides to throw Harry a pitch for a new movie based on his own recent adventure , and Harry loves it ? they decide to try and finance the film together , but first they need a big-name star . So they attempt to hire Martin Weir ( Danny De Vito ) , a hugely successful Oscar-nominated movie star . That's where the whole " Get Shorty " part comes in . This movie is very confusing on first viewing as it moves around so quickly . It's based on a novel by Elmore Leonard , and if you've read anything by Leonard , you'll already be aware his strengths are his plotting , characters and dialogue ? " Get Shorty " has all of this . Travolta delivers his coolest performance ever as Chili , who can stare at a person and tell them everything he needs to just with his eyes . Travolta's dialogue is the best , with lines like " I won't say any more than I have to , if that . " Gene Hackman gives one of his funniest and sleaziest performances and is really fun to watch . The entire cast is superb and Dennis Farina is an absolute scene-stealer with some of the most memorable one-liners , including my personal favorite , " I . e . , e . g . , screw you ! " Only he doesn't say " screw . " " Get Shorty " is very heavily influenced by " Pulp Fiction " ( which had been released a year prior ) and in fact Quentin Tarantino was the person who told Travolta to take the role because he thought it might further his career even more . He was right . " Pulp Fiction " and " Get Shorty " are the two defining films of Travolta's career in the 1990s and it proves that Travolta is at his best playing characters like this . It's unfortunate that he now seems to strive towards mediocrity . Even the sequel to " Get Shorty , " named " Be Cool , " was worse than the book , which was pretty bad to begin with . But " Get Shorty " is good . Very good . It's fun , it's hip , it's dark and it's got a great script . It's not a substantial masterpiece , but it's hugely entertaining , and a spot-on parody , and I think that's all that matters .
One of the better Disney films of the past decade , with a good moral message	Goofy ( whose voice is provided by veteran Bill Farmer ) has a son , Max , who is a teenager in high school . Max is a loser and is tired of not getting any attention , so one day Max hijacks a school auditorium announcement being made by the principal and lip-synches a popular song with the help of his friend ( voice by Pauly Shore ) . This earns him brief popularity before he is threatened with possibly being expelled from the school . Goofy overreacts and thinks his son is on a slippery slope to becoming a criminal , so he decides to spend some father-son time with Max by going on a cross-country road trip . Along the way Goofy struggles with his son as their relationship is put to its test . One thing I've always enjoyed about this film is that - apart from its surprisingly good animation - it has a really strong story behind it . " A Goofy Movie " could easily have just become what its title sounds like - some lame excuse to see Goofy run around for 90 minutes like a maniac - but the whole story between Goofy and Max comes across as being oddly realistic for a cartoon . For a Disney film this is also surprisingly mature - it takes place through the perspective of a high-schooler , Goofy and Max get into plenty of arguments and there's a romantic interest for Max . The entire film has a good message behind it and could easily be translated to a live-action , non-Disney film and still work . The musical sequences are fun and lively , the story is exceptional for a film of this genre and the animation is above average . Perhaps not the most kid-friendly animated film , or something most Goofy enthusiasts would want to acknowledge , but for those with an open mind this is a bizarre production .
Best Bond in years !	Not since Sean Connery has there been a James Bond as good as Pierce Brosnan . As with Sean Connery , he almost seems fit just right for the Bond pictures . I haven't seen a Bond film this good since Goldfinger , and I hope Die Another Day continues this great legacy ( much to my dissapointment of TWINE and TND with Pierce Brosnan playing Bond . Brosnan just snaps right into the role , bearing all the classic action , adventure , humor , and the infamous Bond Girls associated with Bond , James Bond - - - - MovieCritic2003
Are we back in the ' 80s ?	" The Girl Next Door " is one of 2004's most entertaining movies - - sweet , crude ; funny , sad ; moralistic , filthy . Uneven mixtures of opposites attract , much like the leading stars of the film , for a movie that delights the audience at every turn . It manages to satirize the teen comedy genre whilst exploiting it . This is raunchier than " American Pie " and yet also far more sophisticated . Emile Hirsche plays Matthew Kidman , a 19-year-old high school senior who hasn't lived life to the fullest during his pre-graduation phase . While fellow schoolmates skip school to go party at the beach , Matthew sits in class , gazing outside at the partying teens , wishing he could be like them . Then the girl next door moves in : Danielle ( Elisha Cuthbert ) , a drop-dead-gorgeous blonde beauty who undresses across the street from Matthew as he watches in his bedroom . She spots him peeking at her , then plays cruel revenge tricks on him , and then eventually falls in love with him because " of the way he looked at her . " She is touched by Matthew's honesty because she is a former porn star ( at the age of 19 ) and is not used to receiving true affection . When Matthew finds out about her background he is mad , then happy , jumping at the opportunity to sleep with Danielle . Danielle feels betrayed and rushes off to Las Vegas for an adult film star convention . Matthew follows her and tries to " get her back " as so many heroes always do , but falls out with Danielle's producer , Kelly ( played perfectly by Timothy Olyphant ) . The movie eventually tackles a number of subplots - - Matthew learning to " go with it " and loosen up ; Danielle abandoning her past and looking forward to the future ; a Cambodian genius being transferred to Matthew's school ; Kelly and Matthew's falling out ; Matthew's college scholarship , etc . The film juggles all these different ideas , managing to maintain the audience's interest . Yes , it is a bit raunchy at times and the subject matter is probably inappropriately handled in some scenes . However , the core message of the film is beautiful . It's hidden underneath an unfortunate layer of smut that nevertheless fails to harm the film in any way . Obviously inspired by the teen films of the 1980s , such as " Risky Business " and the plethora of John Hughes-produced / directed flicks , " The Girl Next Door " even boasts a great soundtrack that complements the nature of the film . The acting is one of the movie's most surprising elements - - Hirsche and Cuthbert share chemistry , despite the fact that their two-year age different in real life is quite obvious ( Cuthbert looks much older ) . That's sorta the point , though . Cuthbert is absolutely beautiful , but people wandering into the theater hoping to see her nude should look elsewhere . " The Girl Next Door " is better than that - - an honest and touching teen comedy that cares for its characters and studies them carefully . When Matthew and Danielle finally share a love scene it is handled with tenderness , something rare in movies like this . " The Girl Next Door " is a teen comedy for adults . .
Definitely the best Apatow-group film yet	I enjoyed " The 40-Year-Old Virgin , " but didn't feel it was entirely worthy of all the enormous acclaim it garnered . And for all the praise " Knocked Up " received , I thought it was fairly average . So I wasn't expecting much from " Superbad . " However , I'd have to say it's the smartest and funniest Apatow film yet . I know he didn't direct it , but his influence is distinct . And in the past I've felt indifferent towards Apatow's brand of humour , but combined with Rogen's sensitivity towards the teen condition here , it works really well . People have compared it to John Hughes ' better teen comedies , but I don't think the approach is entirely similar . " Superbad " is cruder , ruder , a bit more focused on the sex & alcohol jokes . But it works really well because it captures that dynamic - better than " American Pie " because it invests more care into its characters . One of the strengths of " Pie " over other films in its genre ( such as , say , " Slackers " ) has always been its characters , and " Superbad " similarly relies on its characters for support . Plus , it's just really funny . The performances all around are pretty funny , even if the Fogell / McLovin pop culture references are ruining a good joke ( kind of like " Yeah , baby ! ! " ruined Austin Powers when 20-year-old frat boys around the country thought it would be funny to shout the phrase every five seconds ) . Jonah Hill and Michael Cera have great chemistry and another one of the strengths of this film is that its teenage characters actually do look their age ( even though Hill is in his early 20s , he still passes as a senior ) . But it was Bill Hader and Seth Rogen who stole the show for me as the clueless cops . Overall this is just a funny , well-made film with heart . It doesn't mock its characters or their predicaments but casts a knowing eye on the high school experience . It captures all this very well and was certainly , in my opinion , far superior to " Knocked Up . "
An interesting , if somewhat alienating , character study ; not as catering as you might think	Roslyn Taber ( Marilyn Monroe ) is newly divorced and happens to meet two men in town : Guido and Gay Langland ( Clark Gable ) . They're cowboys of sorts at their ranch ( ignore the fact that they are around each other constantly and one of them is named Gay - it's just coincidence ) , and invite Roslyn out for a day . Soon all of them are falling head over heels for Roslyn . Apart from the top-notch cast , director John Huston and scriptwriter Arthur Miller , " The Misfits " really stands on its own as a character study - and a rather deep one , too . I read a few IMDb reviewers ' comments that noted the story itself becomes rather muddled and unbelievable at times - I didn't really think so . I suppose the film does leave a few loose ends , but to be honest , I found this to be all the MORE realistic because this kind of stuff really happens to us all in one way or another - happy , completely finalised endings are rare in life . It can be a bit slow and plodding at times , but that also boils down to whether or not you are engaged by the characters themselves . Admittedly , certain aspects of the script are - perhaps - a bit alienating and we don't really " like " all the people in this movie - but then again , we didn't like Alex DeLarge , Travis Bickle , or other cinema antiheroes . And some of the people in " The Misfits " could certainly be described as antiheroes ( particularly for the time era the film was made ) - just look at its title ! The acting is very impressive - I'm not a big fan of Monroe in general but even I thought she did fairly well here and it certainly come across as one of her less glorious roles . Clark Gable offers a different type of performance - kind of subdued and disassociated ; he speaks about things such as extramarital affairs as if it's just common discussion , not showing any emotion . The rest of the cast ranges from good to great - I was a bit disappointed by Eli Wallach's performance and felt his character could have been expanded a bit , but it's a minor complaint . In the end , this will leave some viewers feeling alienated and cold - and understandably so . For those of us who can appreciate this rather than condemn it , you may find something of interest here ; but it's certainly going to depend , ultimately , on how you approach the material itself .
Maybe a bit dated in its " shock " value but still very funny	" Slap Shot " caused controversy when it was released in 1977 because it was essentially marketed on the basis that it was the rudest movie you'll ever see - and it starred Hollywood's famous " clean man " icon , Paul Newman . The movie is a bit outdated now in the sense that its " shock " value isn't relevant - it looks tame compared to anything else profane out there ( in terms of language ) like " Nil By Mouth " or " Casino . " However , in terms of humor it still delivers . Paul Newman stars as a hockey coach who tries to revive a dying team - they begin to use on-ice antics such as swearing and violence to help win games . The Hanson Brothers ( a trio of nerdy , vulgar players ) are responsible for most of the outrageous humor whereas Newman relies more upon the stuff he's always been good at . The overall finished product is hardly great but it's effective . This was yet another George Roy Hill / Paul Newman teaming and it showed once and for all that they really are a terrific duo ( like Scorsese and De Niro or Burton and Depp ) and even when " Slap Shot " is failing it's still amusing because of Newman's presence and Hill's direction .
A well-crafted horror film with character development before the chaos strikes	I had no interest in seeing " Wolf Creek . " When it came out , I recall seeing ads plastered all over the Internet with typically fan-boish praise from horror film circles and none other than Quentin Tarantino . It was also allegedly based on " true events " that weren't true at all , just - in the director's own words - " taken from a lot of different things . " It seemed to be another " Blair Witch " copycat and my interest was dead before I even gave the film a chance . It didn't help much that a critically-reviled film called " Cry _ Wolf " came out around the same time , starring Bon Jovi of all people , which made separation between the two serial killer horror films kind of hard . However , I recently gave " Wolf Creek " a chance on video and must say that I was very surprised by how well-made it is . I've never liked the original " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " film - - I understand why it is considered a classic of its genre and why it has such a strong reputation , but judged as a regular horror film and not altogether excusing it for its low budget , I think the set-up is terrible - stereotypical characters , awful dialogue , etc . It's generally unbelievable and they're all walking corpses-to-be . However , " Wolf Creek " spends a good 45 minutes or so setting up the three ( ! ) main characters of the film . That's right , only three . I was delighted to find a horror film with characters that seemed real - and likable ! I was blown away . When the villain is finally introduced , it's done subtly and creepily , and you never really know what's going to happen next - and that is throughout the film . It has a lot of sly twists , some of which aren't that shocking , and a lot of which are - mainly how the film toys with a lot of horror genre clichés and decides to kill off its characters or do similar things in the most odd places . The film has a supernatural edge and the bad guy seems like he's not entirely human . It reminded me of that film " The Hitcher " starring Rutger Hauer , and has a similar chase scene on a highway , only in my opinion " Wolf Creek " is a lot better . The villain's motives in " The Hitcher " were vague ( perhaps even non-existent ) , whereas in " Wolf Creek " we know he just kills out of sick sexual pleasure . Roger Ebert gave this movie zero stars in his review and basically called it pornographic trash . Well , whatever . He liked " The Devil's Rejects , " which - if you ask me - glorifies violence a lot more than this . " Wolf Creek " is exploitative and gory , but it creates a fear of the blood in a way not many slasher flicks do . We cringe when the character slices off the heroine's fingers because she seems like a real person , and that's a real shock . So , yeah - I can see where some of the criticism is coming from in regards to the movie being extreme in terms of violence - but in my opinion , unlike a lot of other horror films , it uses its enormous amount of blood n ' guts to prove a point rather than simply to shock . It works well , creating a moody atmosphere that - while not the " best horror film ever made " that Quentin Tarantino would like you to believe it is - is a lot better than most of the garbage out there in its genre . I found this to be clever , smart , well-made , and thoroughly entertaining . Probably one of the better horror films I've seen so far this decade .
Fun to watch - for all the wrong reasons	This was one of the earliest cases of the 1980s Hollywood Blockbuster . Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer ( also responsible for the 1984 popular culture smash hit " Beverly Hills Cop " ) struck gold with " Top Gun " and it helped define what most people remember about the era - mainly cheesy soundtracks , unbelievably good-looking people playing ordinary everyday roles , stupid romantic subplots and a lot of bad action sequences . " Top Gun " is a fun film to watch . Ignoring its homosexual undercurrents everybody loves to make fun of ( it was humorous the first ten times I heard about the so-called " blatant references " ) - the movie is simply so cheesy it's a win-win situation ! People with no taste will think it's a brilliant film , whereas others will savor its stupidity . Kelly McGillis as a flight instructor for the NAVY is icing on the cake when it comes to utter disbelief . In reality she would be a he : a 50-something retiree , balding , with a big fat beer belly , always wearing a crusty Navy baseball cap ( sort of like Tom Clancy ) . But no , in " Top Gun , " everybody's beautiful - and the love scene between Maverick ( Tom Cruise ) and McGillis is the equivalent of a perfume commercial . Tony Scott is out of his mind . I love this movie .
It's money , baby , money !	" Swingers " was released in the era of independent films - - heavily influenced by Quentin Tarantino , there is a reason that one of the characters in this movie has a Mr . Blonde poster on his wall and discusses " Pulp Fiction " vs . " GoodFellas " in one scene . ( One of my favorites in the film , actually . ) " Swingers " is mainly about Mikey ( Jon Favreau ) , a guy who's just come out of a six-year relationship and can't focus on anything else . His best friend Trent ( Vince Vaughn ) is only worried about trying to get into bed with any woman in sight . They head out to Vegas for a night and Trent makes some money and picks up a girl , but Mikey loses $300 and winds up thinking about his ex-girlfriend again . Essentially the film follows Mikey as he tries to learn to forget about his ex , and move on with his life , which is a very hard thing for him to do . This film is based around shame and embarrassment , and the most uncomfortable scene has to be the one in which Mikey desperately calls a woman he met at a bar and leaves about 12 messages on her answering machine . The punchline to the scene is hilarious and cruel . " Swingers " isn't quite as influential as it could have become . It inspired a cult following to go around saying things like , " Money , baby ! " and it's definitely a guys ' flick . ( The male version of a chick flick , really . ) It's not the huge breakthrough that " Reservoir Dogs " was but for its extremely low budget ( I read $200 , 000 ) it certainly made a lot at the time of its release and solidified the careers of Favreau ( who has gone on to direct and star in other productions ) , director Doug Liman ( " The Bourne Identity " ) and of course Vince Vaughn , whose career has gone somewhat down the drain since making this . Overall " Swingers " isn't flawless but it is a great insight into a jilted man's life and is more honest than about 90 % of the films that are released through Hollywood nowadays . Its characters are very likable and three-dimensional and it entertained me throughout its short running time .
" Strangers on a Train " Meets " The War of the Roses " . . .	" Throw Momma From the Train " is a simple dark comedy with lots of laughs . Billy Crystal plays a frustrated writer on the verge of collapse ; Danny DeVito plays a man in one of Crystal's writing classes . Crystal's ex-wife is a hag to put it nicely , and Crystal hates her . DeVito , sensing this , offers Crystal a deal one night : DeVito will kill Crystal's wife , if Crystal kills DeVito's nag of a mother . Crystal does , of course , refuse , but later , corruption deep in his heart makes him say yes . And so as things play out we see what happens when you try to throw someone's momma from a moving train . This story is an interesting character study ; a story of evil , greed , revenge , ego , trust , doing what's right , but most of all corruption . We see Crystal's white-collar writer become ever-stressed with events colliding around him , and because of DeVito's constant nagging , he says " yes . " But we know deep down in his subconscious he wanted to say " yes , " and he's pleased that he said it to DeVito . This movie is a bit of a dark spoof on Hitchcock's immortal film " Strangers on a Train , " and it plays an homage to the film early on , when there is a theater playing " Strangers on a Train . " We see DeVito watching the movie , and a lightbulb in his head pops on . He gets an idea . Throw Momma from the train ! Billy Crystal gives another convincing and strangely comical performance as a hassled writer on the verge of collapse . He has been so beaten down by everything around him that his inner-emotions come out and he agrees to throw DeVito's momma from the train . Danny DeVito directed this film excellently . He uses just the right touch of comic darkness to create a world of corruption and sickness . Everything is demented , but not to an extreme like in some other dark comedies . It has just the right touch of darkness that shone through in " The War of the Roses . " Not only is " Throw Momma From the Train " a simple tale of corruption and morality , but is also an interesting character study . Definitely worth catching on TV . stars - John Ulmer
The PG-13 rating restricts some of the content but nevertheless its message is effective	Ten years ago in the country of Rwanda , one million people were brutally murdered in less than three months by opposing forces , and much of the world passed over the events giving them little notice . However one brave man ( played in the film by Don Cheadle ) granted over 1 , 000 refugees access to his hotel and helped save their lives . I had heard very mixed reviews on this film . On a UK talk show when it came out overseas one critic called it the next " Schindler's List , " and another said it was too tame and " not scary enough " to be a great movie . Personally I felt that although the movie was very good , and extremely well acted by Don Cheadle , the PG-13 rating does indeed restrict some of the atrocities that were actually performed . It kind of seems redundant to make such a daring , un-Hollywood film and then rate it PG-13 so more people can go see it and it can bring in more money . At the time , I thought the critic who said it " wasn't scary enough " was off her nut , but now I can understand what she was getting at - " Schindler's List " really immersed you into the Jews ' struggle through its brutal depictions of senseless violence . It hurt to watch . " Hotel Rwanda " is tamer . It still deals with hundreds of thousands of lost lives , but PG-13 is still PG-13 and it does give the film a lighter edge - an R-rating would have allowed them more freedom to really examine the full extent of the atrocities in Rwanda . Nevertheless , for being restricted to a PG-13 rating it manages to translate its message rather well , and thanks to the lead performance by Don Cheadle it really does have moments of near-greatness . I wouldn't put it on the same level as " Schindler's List , " but it's still a haunting reminder of what happened in Rwanda .
" The Goonies " for adults .	Based on the Stephen King novel " The Body , " " Stand By Me " is a good ( albeit overrated ) film about friendship . It's really made all the more touching due to the passing of River Phoenix in the early ' 90s , which ties in to the plot in a number of eerie ways . The film is strong in terms of acting , writing and even directing ( by Rob Reiner ) - unfortunately its flaws are that it's sometimes a bit too emotionally controlling and constrictive , laying on the cheese a bit heavy . But it is a fine film , worth watching now and again , " The Goonies " for adults . On another note , I just purchased the new Deluxe Edition DVD , which is really just the old Special Edition DVD re-packaged with a CD soundtrack . The " Deluxe " DVD itself was a disappointment as it even had glaring grammatical errors on the back cover . I felt a bit ripped off .
Terrific Beginning , Fairly Slow Middle , Terrific Ending . . .	" True Lies " works on two conditions : You aren't expecting " The Terminator , " and you aren't expecting " James Bond . " Instead , think of " James Bond " meets " Terminator , " and you've probably got the picture . Harry ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) is a man going through turbulent times in his marriage , though he is not aware of this . He's too busy working with computer conferences . His wife ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) is bored with her husband , her house , her job , her life . She wants excitement . Danger . Mystery . Intrigue . And Harry's delivering none of this . So she strikes an affair with Bill Paxton , a secret agent for the government . But here's where the irony is : Paxton isn't a secret agent . On the other hand , what Jamie Lee Curtis was looking for she had all along : her husband , Harry , works for the FBI , CIA , or something in that vicinity . He's a spy , so to speak . His boring , dull , computer-expert persona is all a front for something more important . He and fellow spy Tom Arnold are the best of the best . The beginning of the film opens with Harry cutting through ice , floating to the top , making his way to the shore of a rich manor , shredding off his diving suit ( revealing a tux , much like the underwater sequence in " Goldfinger " where Connery comes out with a tux ) , and entering the manor , which is host to a party right now . Harry then makes his way to an upstairs bedroom where he uploads info on who's been selling what on the black market . This does , of course , lead to some sort of plot with bad guys and explosions , but I didn't pay attention to that . ( Well actually , I did , but to tell you the truth I can't remember a thing about the plot since I last saw the film . ) The thing I do remember is that I was a bit disappointed , mainly because I had heard so many good things about this film . I mean , James Cameron , Arnold Schwarzenegger , and James Bond spoofing material . . . what can go wrong ? Well , nothing really went wrong , but the film slows down in too many areas and tries to start a side-plot with Curtis and Schwarzenegger's marriage life , which is fine ( because you have to wonder what Bond's life would be like if he was - - or had stayed - - married ) , but the film seems to divert courses just to examine this in overly-long sequences . It dabbles a bit too long in the side-plot and doesn't focus enough on what it set out to do , which is half-spoof Bond , half-spoof the Schwarzenegger / Cameron team . Luckily this is all made up for with a terrific beginning and terrific ending . Schwarzenegger oozes with self-confidence in a not-too-ignorant kind of way , and , guess what , Tom Arnold is actually FUNNY in this movie . Yes , you read that right . Funny . Something he never seems to be , even when given the right material . In fact , Tom Arnold is so funny in this film , I found myself missing his sorry face when he wasn't on screen ! Cameron has made better ( " The Terminator " ) , and so has Schwarzenegger ( " The Terminator " ) , but what he and Schwarzenegger set out to do comes through pretty good , even if the middle slowed down and diverted courses in the wrong direction a bit . stars - John Ulmer
A classic of the genre .	You just can't get away with this stuff anymore . In the first ten minutes , Burt Reynolds has beaten his girlfriend , stolen her car , gone on a massive police chase , dumped the sportscar off a bridge , then attacked two cops . Oh , and he's the hero of the movie , too . Nowadays the remake - - starring Adam Sandler - - is rated PG-13 and he's a total wimp . Back in the ' 70s you could get away with being vicious , sexist , homophobic and racist and live to tell about it . In 2005 , Adam Sandler says the F-word in one of his movies and parents are banning the film companies . Yup , this film is clearly racist , homophobic and misogynist . Women are treated as sexual objects throughout , from the opening to the part where a prison warden's intern requests sexual favors from Burt Reynolds in return for handing him a movie-reel he needs . African-Americans are portrayed as racist tough guys who are better than the whites at football , and they call whiteys " honkies " and other such words . In return all the whites are racist towards the blacks and it creates an interesting tension . The homophobia sneaks into play when it's suggested one of the inmates is in love with Burt Reynolds . Quite a funny scene , actually . " The Longest Yard " was one of Robert Aldrich's most successful films and many claimed it was him " selling out , " but viewed 30 years later this really does stand apart from many of the other sports-comedy films of the decade . What is so special about " The Longest Yard " is probably that it plays like a mix between " Cool Hand Luke , " " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " and " Smokey and the Bandit " - - it's got car chases , it's got sports , it's got funny stuff , BUT it also spends a lot of time developing its characters and creating some very dramatic sequences . This is well directed , gritty , and fun - - not as much a " comedy " as you might expect , it is actually more serious . By the end of the film we've come to root for a bunch of murderers and rapists and even Burt Reynolds , and let's face it - - when was the last time you saw Burt Reynolds in a movie and actually LIKED his character ? ! A classic of the genre .
Bourne Superior	First things first : " The Bourne Supremacy " film is almost nothing like the book . Ludlum die-hards should not expect a faithful adaptation . Most notably , a main character from the novel and its sequel " The Bourne Ultimatum " ( I will resist saying whom ) dies within the first fifteen minutes of this film . The geographical locations in the movie are far apart from those in the book , and the general plot is vastly different . However , as a standalone bearing only the Bourne name , this is a thrilling and competent espionage action movie . The original may have been more " classy " but this is more fun and more visceral - director Paul Greengrass ' sickeningly chaotic hand-cam captures the fractured mentality of Bourne , as well as his physical spontaneity . This is a very different film from its predecessor , but in many respects , it's also very much a superior one . Allowing the first film to establish the character , Matt Damon takes Bourne in new directions here - still running away from his past while trying to simultaneously figure out who he actually was . The plot goes something like this : an assassin tries to kill Bourne at his home in a small African village , and instead murders Marie . Bourne retaliates by trying to find out why Project Treadstone is still active , and soon realizes that he has been linked to two murders in Berlin that he didn't have any part of . With the CIA under the impression that Bourne has re-emerged as an assassin-for-hire , and unaware that he has actually been framed by the same person who tried to kill him in Africa , Bourne goes international - revisiting locales from his past while dealing with haunting memories and the pain of losing his lover . Damon's great here - physical , intense , deliberate . Everything the character calls for . The plot moves at a fast pace and isn't nearly as confusing as the first film's storyline was . ( The fact that the basis for the character has already been established is probably part of the reason for this . ) Greengrass ' direction turned me off a bit at first , but once the film settled in to a rhythm it definitely worked to the film's advantage . He's kind of like Michael Bay if Michael Bay woke up one day and learned how to competently stage action sequences . " Supremacy " is indeed a supreme film of its genre - it balances plot and action while introducing another element that was noticeably absent in the first film : a human soul . The movie veers down the " revenge thriller " route towards its finale , but it contains an emotional twist that not many revenge-thrillers are mature enough to carry out . " Identity " was a solid spy thriller but " Supremacy " just improves on every aspect of the previous film , and ends enticingly .
The rare sequel that is intelligent AND in many ways better than its predecessor	I saw the original " Saw " when it came out in UK theaters back in 2004 . I thought it was very good - thrilling , different and clever . The acting was pretty bad ( especially the ending with Elwes ' laughable facial contortions ) , but it was the jolt that horror sorely needed . It wasn't another slice-'em-dice'-em slasher flick - it was smarter . When I read that they were almost instantly putting " Saw II " into production based on the success of the original - and that pretty much no one from the original film was returning except for Tobin Bell ( who plays Jigsaw ) - I had very small hopes . I even said on the message board for the film at one point that it was going to ruin the impact of the original . Well , I was wrong . In many ways , " Saw II " is better than the original . The acting talents are far stronger - - Donnie Wahlberg ( Marky Mark's brother ) is so much better than Elwes was in the first film . Due credit to Elwes - - he's a fine actor usually , but in " Saw " he was embarrassing towards the end . Wahlberg is perfect for the film . Another nice twist in the plot is that it isn't totally repetitive as the trailers would lead you to believe . It does something I've never seen before - the killer is arrested within the first twenty minutes AND unmasked . Tobin Bell is on-screen throughout the entire film in plain view , having discussions with Wahlberg . The movie implements a lot of new twists such as the whole concept of " Rashomon " ing everything and going back and forth between different perspectives . The ending is brilliant because it's not just a throwaway shocker - it has a moral message that I never expected from this film . The movie's interweaving plots and self-referential layers ( such as a revisiting of the bathroom from the first movie ) provide lots of fun and Jigsaw's game with the detective in the film is thought-provoking - this film is so much smarter and better than I ever expected and I was really blown away by the fact that we still have the capability of making good sequels to good movies that offer something fresh , rather than simply retreading material from the original .
" The Mothman Prophecies " is one of the great horror films of our time	What could have easily been a standard , simplistic " shock " horror film is elevated to heights of genre excellency by director Mark Pellington , whose first film , " Arlington Road , " was evidently only a sign of things to come . " The Mothman Prophecies " is one of the great horror films of our time ? matching the eerie tones of isolation and psychological deterioration from " The Shining " and delivering intelligent thrills instead of cheap scare tactics . It's a daring move for a film called " The Mothman Prophecies " not to actually feature any visuals of the titular creature , but that's exactly the case here ? the film falls back upon old-fashioned chills rather than modern-day thrills . Of the decade so far I would rank it as one of the finest of its genre without hesitation . The film purports to be based on a true story , and although numerous facts are twisted ( not least of all that the actual events depicted in the film took place forty years ago and the protagonist of the film , strictly speaking , never really existed ) , it will easily appeal to those " Mothman buffs " out there as well as it will to regular audiences . The movie has some nice in-joke references ( such as the fact that one character's name , Leek , is " Keel " spelled backwards ? the name of the author of the book " Mothman " is based upon ) and Pellington clearly did his research prior to filming . The movie stars Richard Gere as a Washington reporter who loses his wife ( Debra Messing ) in a freak car crash . Two years pass and after a long day of work in the office and perpetual unrest , he sets out for a quiet drive to Baltimore . A couple hours later he finds himself hundreds of miles away in Point Pleasant , West Virginia ? a town experiencing bizarre happenings that somehow relate to the passing of his wife . People are seeing strange things : men in black , demonic beings and a strange winged creature with blood red eyes . " The Mothman Prophecies " lets everything up to the viewer's imagination ? when the reporter gets a telephone call from a man named " Indrid Cold " who seems to have infinite knowledge and an alien voice , Pellington doesn't draw conclusions . Is Indrid the Mothman ? Is Indrid from another world ? We don't know ? making the proceedings all the more eerie . Some Mothman enthusiasts have claimed the film really doesn't focus enough solely on the Mothman , and tries to turn into a supernatural thriller rather than a documentary-style production on what actually happened in Point Pleasant in 1967 . But to be fair , trying to compile all of the insane legends of the town's history into a single film would be disastrous . There exist many other odd events that occurred within the town during the time period of the Mothman sightings , but some of them are downright silly ( such as author John A . Keel's alleged contact with extra-terrestrials and the theory that the Mothman is an escaped alien test subject the government had captured ) . Pellington takes the high road and lays the basics out on the table , and let's viewers draw their own conclusions . Perhaps the most intriguing thing about this film is the fact that Pellington does , in fact , turn his film into a psychological thriller rather than a true horror film . Except for the sloppy ending ( which stinks of Hollywood interference ) , this is a dark , edgy , realistic and un-nerving movie . Like Kubrick's " The Shining , " it puts you inside the mind of a man driven to the brink of insanity ? in this case , fueled by the death of a loved one and pure obsession . There's an interesting twist towards the end of the film that provides some poignant reflection for Gere's character , when he is confronted with the possibility of speaking to his dead wife through the aid of Indrid Cold . But he's left with a big question : what if it's not really his wife ? " How do you want to remember your wife ? " another character asks him . It's a very effective scene . Gere delivers a fine , surprisingly powerful performance as a grieving man ? the character is loosely based on Keel , but there are a lot of dramatic additions , such as the internal conflict involving the death of his wife and his spiritual link with the Mothman himself . But these are not distracting threads ? it provides a strong connection between Gere and the Mothman / Indrid Cold . This connection really drives the psychological tension of the film . Directorially this is a very promising example of Pellington's visual finesse behind the camera . Evoking Hitchcock , Kubrick , Polanski and other great artists , Pellington becomes , in many ways , the true star of this picture . The fragmented visuals accompanied by the creepy score by Tomandandy results in one of the finest horror-thrillers in recent memory ? a film that works on many levels and , despite some flaws ( mainly towards the finale ) , is a perfect example of why directors are just as vital to a film as the story itself . A criminally underrated film that will hopefully grow in stature and recognition over time .
Falsely marketed as a silly comedy when it is in fact a witty drama	In recent times , Bill Murray's movies have been misleadingly advertised . Fearing box office failure , the marketing team behind " Lost in Translation " crafted ads presenting it as a goofy romantic comedy . It was in fact a much deeper and poignant art house experience , and even after the Oscars ceremony there were still people renting the film expecting a comedy . It was a " critical success and a public disaster , " as one reviewer aptly described it . After all , no one pays to go see a serious Bill Murray movie , right ? Similarly , Wes Anderson's " The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou " seems to have misled many filmgoers into perceiving it is a silly slapstick comedy . It is not . Like Anderson's earlier work ( and in fact more so than anything else he has made ) , " The Life Aquatic " is a rather serious film with a bit of dry humor here and there to lighten the mood . Those expecting " Ghostbusters III " or another " Stripes " will be very disappointed . For my money this is Anderson's most mature directorial effort to date . It deals with a lot of angst and could arguably be called a mid-life-crisis movie ( although certainly less so than " The Royal Tenenbaums " ) . It deals with a man's trials and tribulations - ? involving death , love , hatred , regret , fatherhood , envy , and so on and so forth . There is not a more ideal actor out there to play this role than Bill Murray . In an interview , he once said that he has a lot of trouble and anger in his personal life ; it translates well to the screen . In " The Life Aquatic " Murray plays the titular Steve Zissou ( pronounced " Ziz-so " ) , world famous oceanographer and failing documentary film maker ( whose last hit , we are told , was nine years ago ) . While on a routine diving mission , Steve's lifelong friend is eaten alive by an unidentified " Jaguar Shark . " Steve captures the events on camera and inserts them in his next film , but the critical reaction is dire . Steve is accused of having lost his touch , and is given one last chance to present his investors a hit , or he will never work again . However the last things on Steve's mind are financial issues ? instead he swears revenge on the Jaguar Shark ( in the name of science , of course ) and embarks on an adventure to slaughter the fish that killed his best friend . Steve's estranged wife ( Anjelica Huston ) joins him on his trip , as well as a mysterious man who may or may not be Steve's son ( Owen Wilson with a Kentucky accent ) , and a very German Willem Dafoe ( who is responsible for most of the film's laughs ) . Also along for Zissou's final outing is a blunt reporter ( Cate Blanchett ) seeking the dirt on Zissou , who finds herself falling in love with his ostensible son . This movie is very ambiguous and open-ended . It leaves a lot open for discussion at the end - - something I believe Wes Anderson is particularly good at . Some of his past films such as " Rushmore " have been impressive , but it seems if Anderson has any flaws it is his unabashed sentimentality and ( as some critics have accused him of ) superficiality . Ironically " The Life Aquatic " is simultaneously Anderson's most superficial and honest film . On its surface , it is Anderson's first true Hollywood movie and even features special effects . But in terms of narrative it is by far his most realistic and touching movie ( or at least I thought so ) . Watching " Rushmore " I laughed a lot and felt attached to the characters , but the ending seemed tacked-on and didn't ring true . " The Life Aquatic " was entertaining and also managed to feel free of narrative manipulation ? and that is probably why people either love or hate it , judging from critical response . Overall , while not a flawless film , it is a very mature work , and a nice addition to Anderson's oeuvre . I believe its mixed reaction from the critics and public is due to the fact that it was heavily misunderstood on release ( as some of the great classic films were in their time ) and is , as I mentioned above , much more of an honest drama than some the audience probably expected it to be walking into the theater based on the promotional campaign and trailer . You can now experience the film unencumbered with erroneous preconceptions , and thanks to an excellent Two-Disc Criterion Collection DVD , there are ample special features available that may add to your appreciation of this excellent film .
A great game - albeit flawed	Okay , points must be made . HALO 2 has disappointed many videogamers . It was " the " highly anticipated game - more so than GTA San Andreas , which has had its predecessors close behind ( 2001 , 2002 , 2004 ) . HALO 2 is the first bit of HALO we've had since 2001 . The previews looked extraordinary . The new graphics engine was supposedly " kick-a$$ , " and nothing we had ever seen before . Well , okay , it's not the masterpiece we expected . Or is it ? Okay , here's a few things to consider : 1 . The high expectations are what cause people to dislike this more so than the game itself . If HALO 2 had been released first , people would be saying HALO " sucked " because they changed the weapons , etc . I agree that the weapons aren't as good in HALO 2 but that's probably got to do with the fact that I enjoyed HALO so much . If I had played this first , would I feel the same ? 2 . The graphics ARE extraordinary . The best I've ever seen on any console . The movies are great - I don't like the new / remapped characters such as the Covenant creatures in the opening sequence . . . but they look amazing and character details ( faces in particular , and body movements ) are more realistic than anything we've ever seen before . The opening montage shows a space ship gliding through space and it's much more realistic than the original HALO in which many battleships seemed to just be still images being screened in front of a back projection . 3 . The game is not as freeroam as the original ( as others have pointed out ) . This is a plus , and a minus . The gameplay of HALO 2 reminded me of that N64 game with the female protagonist ( wasn't it DARK something ? I can't remember . I used to own it and play it all the time , but it's been years since I've laid eyes on it ! ) . It's got a very dark story going on and the gameplay ( including weapons , etc . ) reminds me very much of the old N64 game . It's NOT very much like the original HALO when it comes to actual gameplay . It's very different . It's the ALIENS of the ALIEN series - it's meaner , faster , and different than its predecessor - for better or worse . I'm glad Bungie went somewhere new with this . If it had been identical to the original , we'd all be complaining . I don't mind having linear gameplay , because it's still a lot of fun . Oh , and here's one more thing : The whole FPS snobbery thing is getting old . I've played tons of FPS games over the years - Doom , Unreal Tournament , AvP , Unreal , Goldeneye , etc . being my favorite . ( I guess Max Payne is a 3rd-person . Bummer . ) Admitting to loving HALO does not mean I have " not played " any other FPS'es . Frankly , I loved the endless abilities HALO provided - the intense gameplay , the freeroam , etc . I thought it had a solid lead character , good graphics , fairly good villains , and overall excellent gameplay . It was a unique experience and blew everyone away - myself included . If you thought HALO was overrated , please don't blame your disappointment on those of us who enjoyed the game - it does not mean we don't know anything about FPS games . It simply means we have different taste . Overall there are different things about this game I consider pros and cons , and to put them into words would take too long . Suffice to say it's both disappointing and extraordinary in various measures . Gameplay : Graphics : Plot : ( it has much more actual story than many other games , even if it's a bit silly at times ) Weapons : ( I'll admit it , I miss the other weapons but maybe these will grow on me ) Vehicles : N / A ( I haven't played enough with them yet - I am disappointed , however , that many of what Bungie promised is not here ) Overall : I know this may seem a bit odd . I sound a bit disappointed in this game . Not really . Maybe a bit underwhelmed at times . But overall it's just very DIFFERENT from its predecessor , and this is the reason it's causing so much distress - it's very multiplayer-oriented so the first-player campaign won't take long to complete , but it's still a lot of fun and very different from the original HALO which is more than can be said for many games . ( Unreal Tournament 2003 was an enormous disappoint - the characters were awful , the gameplay was boring . ) HALO 2 might disappoint some die-hard HALO fans , but they need to recognize that sometimes being different is better than just copying - we can accuse Bungie of many things but we can never say that they were content to merely rip off the original ! A very fun game that I'm sure will grow on me more with time .
Solid early thriller from the Coens .	" Blood Simple " is a very good thriller from the Coen Brothers , their first movie , and it already shows their craft taking form - - the absurd violence punctuated by comical moments , the spiralling events that careen out of control , the soundtrack , the camera techniques . . . everything's already here and it was only their first effort . This isn't as good as " Fargo " but it is more of a straight thriller than a mix of genres . It's darker , more grimy , and more serious ; " Touch of Evil " meets " Detour . " It's got all the elements of classic film noir while maintaining a good level of dark humor that helps elevate the material . The film follows the events in the lives of Abbey ( Frances McDormand ) , Ray ( John Getz ) and Marty ( Dan Hedaya ) . Abbey and Marty are unhappily married ; when Marty finds out his wife has been having an affair with one of his bartenders , Ray , he hires an unscrupulous detective by the name of Visser ( played perfectly by M . Emmett Walsh ) to kill them both . Visser has his own plans and decides to try and take the money for free - Marty dies . . . or does he ? And then Ray gets involved and the title " blood simple " really comes into play . ( It is used to describe the after-effects in the mentality of a person who has just killed . ) " Blood Simple " reminds me a bit of " Evil Dead , " which seems apt since the Coens supposedly modeled their film after Sam Raimi's efforts and even made a teaser trailer with Bruce Campbell playing the Marty character . It isn't a " horror " film but maintains the same dark vibe as " Evil Dead " and has a ridiculous amount of oozing blood and gore . The grave burial scene is also pretty sickening and something out of an " Evil Dead " movie . " Blood Simple " is a really good thriller . As a low-budget indie flick from the ' 80s it is very impressive and as the Coens ' directorial debut it remains a fascinating example of their skills . It is not , in my opinion , as perfectly sculpted or humorous as " Fargo " ( which is my favorite film of the Coens ) but it doesn't mean to be - - it is a straightforward film noir thriller and in that regard it remains one of the best of all time .
A Clever Black Comedy	Christopher Lloyd , Michael McKean , Tim Curry . Great actors . What happens when you put them in a board-game-turned-film ? A surprisingly enjoyable dark comedy . The plot is nothing great , but it is a lot like the board game . The rooms . The characters . The director really captured the board game's " look , " I guess it's safe to say , in this movie . Slight Spoiler AheadSome classic comedic moments and a great ending ( three endings , actually - - END OF SPOILER ) really make this movie enjoyable . A laudable effort , a funny movie . stars - John Ulmer
A very good suspense-thriller with Fonda in top form	" Klute " is about a detective ( Donald Sutherland ) searching for a missing man , and his single lead points towards a prostitute named Bree ( Jane Fonda ) , who had been the missing man's mistress . However shortly after contacting her seeking information on the man , the detective Klute realizes someone is trying to kill Bree to silence her - so they flee together and try to uncover a web of lies and deception leading to the answer . " Klute " is one of those films you always hear about but never really watch . It's rarely on TV and seems to have more of a reputation than a following . However I was surprised that it really is a good film and lives up to its status as a " classic . " It's not one of the great , great films of the 1970s , but it is one of the better ones . Fonda as the prostitute Bree is an absolute stand-out and delivers the finest performance of her career . Sutherland is equally good as the detective , but Fonda steals the show . Director Alan J . Pakula has made a lot of great films and this is one of his best .
Very funny .	I'm a big fan of " Saturday Night Live , " I'll always watch it , even though the recent years ( mainly 2004 - 2005 - - since Will Ferrell left ) have been awful . " The Best of the Clinton Scandal " is self-explanatory - it's a collection of skits centered around the infamous Bill Clinton / Monica Lewinsky sex scandal back in the late ' 90s . Not all the skits are great but a lot of them are very funny . One in particular - with frequent " SNL " host John Goodman playing Linda Tripp - is one of my all-time favorite " SNL " sketches , so its inclusion automatically makes this best-of show a solid seven . The inclusion of even funnier stuff rounds out to about an eight in my opinion . There's only so much of the Clinton scandal gags you can take before it's not funny anymore ( ditto with George Bush and in particular the whole pretzel-choking incident - man , those skits got old FAST ) but if you're in the right mood you'll find this a good way of spending about seventy minutes of your time .
Very funny although Cook isn't given full room to blossom	Dane Cook is quite funny - I have his " Harmful if Swallowed " and " Retaliation " albums , and even if he's not the most thought-provoking comedian , he is naturally humorous , and he makes me laugh . This Comedy Central presentation is quite short ( 23 minutes without commercials ) and as a result he isn't given much room to fully blossom like he does on his CDs ( Retaliation includes a 20-minute gag about going to Wallgreens ! ) but nevertheless it's a very funny stand-up act . Off the bat he practically attacks the audience with jokes and doesn't slow down at all . If you're new to Dane Cook then this is overall an excellent way to be introduced to him . After this I recommend checking out his other comedy albums .
A great anti-war film	Peter Weir has long been one of my favorite directors , and he has had a career consumed by subtle , quiet , lingering films . He can make the most banal concept seem thrilling and suspenseful ; a perfect example is the Harrison Ford film " Witness . " It could have easily become a stupid , insulting , exploitative " thriller . " The ending is , in retrospect , quite ridiculous . But Weir has a strange ability to make anything seem realistic . " Gallipoli " is one of his older films , from 1981 , and it stars a huge cast of names - most famous today , of course , Mel Gibson . . . whose name is now splattered across the front of the DVD case . The story is a true one and follows a group of young Australian men who join the ANZACs in World War I . They are sent to Gallipoli , and amidst personal and emotional turmoil they must learn to band together and fight the Turkish Army . The movie is long , as another reviewer on the site points out . But all of Weir's films are . What I didn't like about his most recent - " Master & Commander " - is that it used special effects ( exteriors of ships , etc . ) and action sequences ( raging storms ) to compensate for the slow bits . . . and came across ( to me anyway ) as quite dull and down-trodden . " Gallipoli " is a great film - slow , subtle , low-key . It's a bit like an Australian version of " All Quiet on the Western Front . " I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys slower films and can appreciate character-driven dramas . Don't go near it if your attention span was dimming during " xXx2 . "
Classic Beatles film	A study of a day in the life of a mega-popular UK rock band in 1964 , " A Hard Day's Night " does nothing to disguise its performers : they may be playing characters , but they're the Beatles . This is essentially just a movie that follows them around as they lead a day of their " ordinary " lives - packed with raving female fans , musical jam sessions , and comic mishaps . This isn't as " great " as some people ( mainly Beatles fanatics ) would lead you to believe - - if it weren't for the Beatles ' presence , nobody would even be watching it . I'm not saying it's a poor film - - I'm saying without their presence , it wouldn't be as engaging or interesting because it would just be watching actors playing musicians . In " A Hard Day's Night , " we know we're really watching the Beatles . The soundtrack is great ( songs from the album " A Hard Day's Night " ) , the movie is fun .
Carlin's most bitter and scorching stand up yet	Many people on both this site and Amazon have claimed that " Life is Worth Losing " is George Carlin's worst comedy performance . One reviewer claims he has simply turned into a bitter misanthrope - but I don't think that's very fair . I thought " Life is Worth Losing " was indeed one of Carlin's harshest acts , but it was also very funny . His opening , " Modern Man , " is a four-minute mind-bending string of words ( similar to the opening of " Complaints and Grievances " ) which is hilarious and almost unbelievable - whoever hears this and thinks Carlin is " losing it " must be kidding ! After this he begins dissecting American life and basically thrashing about the people of our nation with his words - labeling Americans as fat , mall-loving idiots . And some might be offended by this , but that's why he's George Carlin . Carlin may be getting older but I really fail to see how he's " falling apart " as a comedian here - I thought it was a great show and although it's his most bitter act I've heard , a lot of it is also totally true .
One of a kind . . . Or is that . . . two ?	TWINS is a very original comedy , and whoever thought about the SLIGHTEST idea of putting Schwarznegger and DeVito together in a film portraying twins must be nutty ! This film is excellent , the acting's great , the script's great , and the chemistry between DeVito and Schwarznegger is worth pointing out . stars - -
Review of the director's cut	This review had to be chopped a bit to fit under the maximum word limit . " They mostly come at night . . . mostly . " The vessel drifts eerily through the vacant outer reaches of space . There is total silence as the opening credits begin to spread across the screen , and then the words JAMES CAMERON ignite with an overwhelming sense of joy . Yes , this is a James Cameron film , perhaps the way he originally envisioned " Alien " ( 1979 ) , or at least thought he could improve upon it . Many critics and moviegoers often consider Cameron's film , released in 1986 , superior to the first film . Because the two films are quite different in approach to the entire concept of aliens , it's hard to compare them . Instead it's quite easy to say that they share a deep chemistry of sorts , whereas each entry compliments the other's own flaws . " Alien " was a rather slow , brooding , dark study of humans abandoned in an unnatural , man-made environment , faced with a deadly foe ; mother nature's crème de le crème of big bad monsters . There was only one alien in the first film , and it stalked them mercilessly , unseen . Even by the end of the film there was much mystery surrounding the alien itself . In short , " Alien " was a horror film . " Aliens " is not . " Aliens " is a cold-blooded , terrifying action movie , pumped full of Cameron's own ever-present unique blend of adrenaline , machoism and suspense . Its lead hero is actually a heroine , the only returning character from the first film , Ellen Ripley , played by Sigourney Weaver as one of the most reluctant screen characters of all time . The company that owned the Nostromo space ship she blew up at the end of " Alien " saves her . It's over 50 years later , her daughter is dead , and everything she has come to know and recognize in her life disappears in a matter of minutes when she is awoken from a deep sleep and informed of all this by Burke ( Paul Reiser ) . Chairmen of the company who take away her pilot's license , believing she is crazy and delusional , mentally disturbed by whatever happened on the Nostromo , debrief her . Days go by until activity is recorded on the planet from the first film - - which is now colonized . The planet where Ripley's crew originally discovered the alien that made its way onto the ship and murdered everyone . . . except her . Burke offers Ripley an enticing deal : If she goes to the planet with a group of marines , they will give her back the freedom she desires . Cautiously , she agrees , and is shipped out with a group of Colonel Marines , including Corporal Dwayne Hicks ( Michael Biehn ) , Private Hudson ( Bill Paxton ) , Lt . Gorman ( William Hope ) , Private Vasquez ( Jenette Goldstein ) , and Sgt . Apone ( Al Matthews ) . After arriving at their destination the crew soon realizes that the activity is indeed related to the extra-terrestrial . There are no civilians in sight - - it seems everyone has disappeared . The single survivor is Newt ( Carrie Henn ) , a brave young girl who has been hiding in the ventilation shafts of the colony for , apparently , quite some time . The action soon begins as the aliens wake up from their slumber within the walls of the colony and attack their new guests . Ripley , relying upon her own experiences with one of the creatures , leads the crew as the casualties soon amount and revelations are made about the species . James Cameron is one of the most visionary directors of all time , a man whose idea for " The Terminator " was sparked by the single image of an endoskeleton rising from fiery flames . His " Terminator " is arguably his finest masterpiece . Even to this day , with " T2 , " " The Abyss , " and " Titanic " under his belt , it is rivaled but not surpassed . To be fair most people seem to think " Aliens " is a super-fast roller coaster-ride of a movie , when in fact it is also a very long film - - the director's cut roughly two and a half hours long , longer than the first film . Then why does it seem so short to so many viewers ? Because of its direction . Cameron's dark atmosphere retains the vision of the original " Alien " but the scope and ideas are entirely different ; this is a film about shooting , yelling , running , and lots of blood and guts , which isn't to say it's a stupid film . . . just a very fun one . Cameron has commented on the film's Vietnam-related themes , although they're rather outlandish . To be sure , the film does indeed use war as a backdrop . The film's tagline was " This Time It's War ! " - - something Cameron claims he made up after deciding to promote his movie as a war picture , not a slow-moving epic in the vein of the original . Both films are amazing in their own right , and about equal in comparison in many different ways , but what Cameron does is improve upon the first film's action , acting and aliens in general . The first movie , aptly titled " Alien " ( as it was not about any more than one of the species ) , has far better landscapes , and although both directors are wonderful Scott is generally better at evoking the paranoia of space . Cameron doesn't do that because he doesn't need to . The acting by all involved is top-notch , with Paxton especially stealing the scenes as the whiny and constantly worried ( but never quite annoying ) marine . The writing is fairly good , given the material , and the action is some of the best you'll ever see .
Police Brutality	" Narc " is a cold , hard , gritty , tough , rough and dirty cop-buddy film . But unlike most other films of the kind where you have the professional cop-gone-bad , and the newbie cop who obeys-all-the-rules , " Narc " features two bad cops in one outing . Both are experienced , and both have seen their fair share of bad things . It has corrupted them , and everything they do shows it . The movie stars Jason Patric and Ray Liotta . I'm assuming Liotta put on a lot of weight for this film , because in his new flick , " Identity , " he looks in good shape . But in " Narc " he is a weathered old man , with a big pot-belly and a burly beard , an homage to Grizzly Adams , it seems . The two men both have beards , come to think of it , which makes me wonder why narcotics officers are fond of beards . I suppose it is because Liotta and Patric are undercover narcotics officers , and to look the part of a druggie they must have a beard . After all , junkies always have beards . And Patric himself goes ever farther and equips himself with an ill-fated beanie cap . Take it off , Jason . Take off the hat . That's what you feel like shouting at him after you see him wearing the darn thing to bed . Am I getting side-tracked ? Good . I'm doing it to prove a point . Too many cop-buddy films lose sight of their goal ( s ) and become miserable little films . Did you like how my review was beginning to discuss pot-bellies , hats and junkies ? I didn't think so . It wasn't the goal of my review to critique hats . The goal of my review was to successfully critique the film " Narc . " But my review got side-tracked , unlike " Narc , " which remembers what it set out to accomplish the whole way through the film . So what , exactly , were its goals ? 1 . To show how rough life is out on the streets ; to expose the life of junkies . 2 . To show how rough life is for the cops who work the streets ; specifically the undercover narcotics cops . 3 . To show how this rough life can corrupt the cops and turn them into junkies . That established , you might have a good time watching " Narc . " I did . BUT . . . Other than teriffic - and I mean teriffic - performances by Jason Patric and Ray Liotta , the script starts to become tiring . By the time the twist-ending comes around , I'm guessing most of the audience had already guessed what was going to happen . I know I did . And the reign of f-words became tiring , also . It fits the style of the film , but when Ray Liotta says , " Un-fin'-believable , " you realize that the filmmakers are overloading this dialogue upon the averae moviegoers , who may not want to hear all this . A film like " Goodfellas " and " Raging Bull " is going to be loaded with the naughty words . You expect it . But I'm betting most of the people who went to see " Narc " were expecting average R-rating material . I'm just warning you right now that it's got more than a handful of bad language . But if you think you can stomach the violence and language , " Narc " is the film for you to see . Not only is it a good film , but the performances by the leading actors makes up for the small amount of blunders along the way . You also must be an active viewer to pick up on things in " Narc . " Things go pretty fast , and you have to focus to catch them . I don't think anyone will complain that this film has lack of respect for the audience . stars - John Ulmer
One of the best films of the year - - Denzel strikes again with a powerhouse performance .	I can't remember a really good film noir being made in quite some time . There may have been a handful of good ( or decent ) film noirs recently , but the bad outnumber them by about 100 to 1 . I went into Carl Franklin's " Out of Time " with a certain amount of interest - - I wasn't sure what to expect . I knew that it was a crime thriller / film noir about a guy who gets caught up in some type of crime , but other than that I really had no idea what the film was like . It hadn't gotten extremely good reviews ( although most of them were at least positive ) , and that lowered my expectations a bit . I had finally come to expect a fairly decent thriller with illogical plot holes and a boring pace . I was wrong . With a back-to-back viewing of David Spade's " Dickie Roberts : Former Child Star " and " Out of Time , " there was a nice contrast going , which may explain why I enjoyed the film so very much . But there's one thing for certain - - it's a lot cleverer than most films of its kind . Matt Whitlock ( Denzel Washington ) is running out of time . He's been framed for murder and has to cover his tracks before the clues start to pile up against him . And there are a lot of clues pointing not only in his direction , but directly at him . Matt is the police chief of a small town in Florida . Nobody suspects him . But he is sole beneficiary on the female victim's life insurance claim . And right before she died , Matt took over $400 , 000 worth of confiscated drug money and planned to run off with her . Nobody knew they were having an affair because she was a married woman and they were keeping their romantic adventures secret . She made Matt her beneficiary after being diagnosed with cancer - - but now she's been discovered dead in a fire with her husband , the money gone , and all the evidence points - - as I said before - - to him . Fortunately , the police officials haven't picked up any traces . Yet . So , in a frantic race for time , Matt has to cover up all his tracks before the find out . The doctor who diagnosed her cancer is gone . The money is gone . Matt's ex-wife ( Eva Mendes ) is bent on finding the killer , and sooner or later she'll figure out that Matt was having an affair , that he had a motive to kill ( over 1 , 000 , 000 dollars ) , etc . But will she find out the real truth : That he is innocent ? This stuff's been done before ; even I'll admit that . But this time it's great . Everything about this movie works , from the style ( with all the vivid brightness of Florida portrayed in films such as " Scarface " or " Get Shorty " ) to the acting ( Denzel strikes again ! ) to direction ( Carl Franlin brings a distinct style to the film ) . From the opening credits I had a big smile on my face . This was a pleasant twist on film noir . Admittedly the first half hour is rather slow . I almost came close to giving the film a negative review . But then the chain of events rolled in like a one-two punch ; fast , furious , and everything you could wish for in a mystery . And , unlike some films , when you stop to take a look at the plot twists in " Out of Time " . . . they actually make sense . Denzel Washington is one of the best actors in Hollywood ; he can lift any film out of mediocrity , including that underrated supernatural thriller " Fallen " with John Goodman . He is simply amazing , always able to bring a sense of realism to his roles , and he does this in " Out of Time " - - I never doubted his role for a minute . That's pretty rare . I would say that " Out of Time " is one of the best films of the year . It seems real , with likable characters portrayed by a strong cast , including John Billinglsey as Chae , Matt's best friend who shows up when he's needed the most . In retrospect , a lot of these characters seem pretty typical and routine . But when I was watching the film , it seemed extremely realistic and convincing . That's always a good sign . " Out of Time " is rated PG-13 for some sexuality , violence , and language . ( Re-rated from a mild R after a few scene cuts . ) stars . - John Ulmer
Stirring and violent retelling of a classic Shakespeare story	" The Tragedy of Macbeth " ( simply abbreviated " Macbeth " on most video covers ) is a violent retelling of Shakespeare's classic story . Macbeth ( Jon Finch ) , the Scottish Thane of Glamis , conspires with his wife Lady Macbeth ( and three strange witches ) to kill the widely-respected King Duncan . After committing the awful deed , Macbeth begins hallucinating , hearing strange omens of death and haunting words ; his wife similarly becomes worried with Macbeth's bloodlust , and Duncan's son convinces himself that Macbeth was involved in some way with the killing . " Macbeth " is a true tragedy , and chances are you already know a great deal about it as it seems to be a high school requirement that it be read by all students . The remarkable thing about Roman Polanski's movie is that it is not only a painfully accurate retelling of William Shakespeare's story , but doesn't flinch when it comes to violence . According to IMDb's trivia section ( and I can't honestly say how reliable this information is , mind you ) , Polanski included very violent scenes ( such as Duncan's death , which is NOT detailed in the original text ) because the movie was filmed around the same time period of Sharon Tate's brutal murder , and it was Polanski's way of venting stress and anger . One must imagine what happens to Duncan in this film is what Polanski wanted to do to the Manson family members ( and you certainly can't blame him ) . As such , knowing the circumstances of what brought about the violence , it is more forgivable and certainly maintains a haunting element - some kind of historical relic , just in knowing that it was filmed during such a terrible time in Polanski's life . The movie as a whole is wonderful . As I mentioned above , its accuracy ( in comparison to Shakespeare's text ) is spot-on - - entire scenes of dialogue are taken directly from the source , and even the strong violence lends the film a more realistic nature . Overall , it's an epic and ( sadly ) somewhat forgotten Shakespeare epic . If you enjoyed " Hamlet " or " Romeo and Juliet " ( the ' 60s version ) you'll certainly find this engaging , and - at times - rather shocking , too .
Good but not as gripping as Hitchcock's greater efforts	" North by Northwest " is a great example of classic , gripping Hitchcock style - - that movie grabs you by the throat and never lets go ! Nowadays I look back at many films from the ' 50s and ' 60s and definitely appreciate them , but feel cinematic ally they are much slower and not always as engaging as movies from the ' 70s , ' 90s and yes , even the ' 80s . Hitchcock was a truly great filmmaker , and evidence of this is that nowadays his films are STILL packing a punch and they don't seem outdated in the least ! I mean , when was the last time you watched " Psycho " and checked your watch ? Unfortunately Hitchcock did make a few errors in his resume ( namely his last project ) and " Dial M For Murder " is somewhere in between . It's a good " talky " movie in the sense that a bunch of people are in a room acting civilized and sophisticated and upper class ( much like " Rope " starring James Stewart , also directed by Hitchcock ) . But the suspense is lacking and the film is not of the same calibre as " North by Northwest " or " Psycho . " It's a good film , and for my money it's better than " The Birds , " but don't expect any sort of masterpiece - - otherwise you might feel rather disappointed . ( For the record , critics seem to generally consider this Hitchcock's worst movie if only for the reason that it was made during a time when he was very popular and it didn't do very well - - kind of like the 1950s ' version of " 1941 " or another flop , people - - primarily critics - - didn't take a real liking to it and it'll probably always be considered his worst mainstream US movie . )
Not the greatest comedy of all-time , but certainly a very funny one	Before Mel Brooks ran out of juice he used to make some very funny movies , and " Blazing Saddles " is one of them . Best remembered today for its infamous " farting scene , " the film also boasts many other humorous sequences - such as Madeline Kahn's dance and just about any scene with Brooks or Gene Wilder . Cleavon Little , Wilder , Brooks , Kahn and Slim Pickens head an all-star cast about a corrupt town sheriff who appoints a black man to be sheriff in order to ruin the reputation of the area . The black sheriff actually winds up becoming far more respected than anyone would have imagined and becomes the politician's enemy . This is not as laugh-out-loud funny as Brooks ' " Spaceballs " but , like " Young Frankenstein , " is better structured . It is a classic comedy , one of Brooks ' finest . Apart from satirizing racism and western movies , it takes a stab at just about everything in sight . " Blazing Saddles " may disappoint some people who are under the impression that it is regarded as the " best " comedy of all-time , but if you approach it level-headed you'll find it a rewarding and unique comedic experience .
Strong satirical bite , but the formula is starting to get a bit repetitive	This season of " Sunny " was off to a great start with " The Gang Gets Handicapped " and " The Gang Goes Jihad , " but the last two or three episodes haven't really been up to par in my opinion . Don't get me wrong , they're still very funny and irreverent , but it seems like the show is starting to follow a standard formula : they take some kind of social element ( gun control , abortion , drugs , welfare , religion , cancer , the handicapped , etc . ) and lampoon it . In this episode Mac ( Rob McElhenney ) finds a water stain in the back of the gang's pub and Frank ( Danny DeVito ) decides to exploit it for money because it looks a bit like the Virgin Mary . Mac is reluctant to do so because he fears it will send him to hell , but Charlie ( Charlie Day ) assures him that he's already going to hell . The money begins coming in but not very much , so Frank decides that they need to find a Catholic priest to give the water stain his blessing in order to attract more attention . Dee ( Kaitlin Olsen ) has an old friend who is a priest and decides to try to coerce him into a romance in order to take advantage of him - however , because he is a priest , he is unable to give in to his feelings for her , which results in one of the cruelest endings I've ever seen on any television show . I still love " Sunny " but I found this episode to be one of the weaker ones .
Pleasantly surprised - enjoyable if predictable	It's a shame so many people are criticizing this film based on its " twist . " I think Shyamalan is a good storyteller in the classic sense that he's able to just make a good atmospheric thriller that holds one's interest . Some are saying he's a rip-off of Hitchcock , but Hitchcock's films were usually a bit more realistic and almost never supernatural ( perhaps " The Birds " is the farthest he ventured into truly fictional horror , even " Psycho " was realistic - if not then , certainly now ) . " The Village " is a good film . I thought the performances were fine , the direction was tight and suspenseful , and the twist - although I guessed it before the film even started - was still delivered well . Another painful thing about this film is that so many people were expecting a shock-twist , when in fact the twist in " The Village " isn't as gimmicky as one might expect . In fact it's not much of a " shock " or " twist , " it's more of a standard minor revelation in the film , and easily predictable . It's a testament to the story itself that it is able to be entertaining in spite of this . At least I thought so . I'm not a huge fan of Shyamalan , I didn't buy into the " Sixth Sense " hype at first and thought it was a fairly basic supernatural thriller with a one-time twist that was easily predictable . I liked it on repeat viewings , but at first I was disappointed . I saw " Unbreakable " and enjoyed it , but found it fairly dull at the same time . Then I saw " Signs " and absolutely loved it , which is ironic because a vast number of people seem to hate the film based on the single fact that its twist is unrealistic . I don't think that's always the case . Just like with " Signs , " Shyamalan builds his twist into something else - it's a metaphor for a larger picture . The final message I gathered from " The Village " is that you can't escape tragedy and heartbreak , it follows you everywhere , and it's an element of humanity that can't be broken away from . Not a great film but a fun one-time viewing with a satisfying conclusion .
Visually superb , although it's style over substance	Jack is a skeleton living in a scary faraway dimension where bizarre creatures reside and embark to scare children on Halloween every year . But Jack longs for a different life outside the restraints of horror - he doesn't like who he is . One day he wanders outside the limits of the haunted city and through a snowy forest , finding Santa Claus and his Elves ' workshop . Inspired , Jack decides to kidnap Santa Claus and turn Christmas into Halloween . The ads for this movie were always very grim . It used to boast , " From producer Tim Burton ! " and his influence is very clear - extremely Gothic visuals . And , for a children's tale , some pretty scary stuff ! Overall this is style over substance , as are most films associated with Burton . He rarely delivers great stories and instead relies on fairytale clichés ( Edward Scissorhands , Big Fish , etc . ) . There's nothing wrong with this . It works because his films are so nice to look at . This is a fun movie with good visuals and an interesting twist on a familiar tale . I recommend it , as long as you don't expect something emotionally involving or brilliant story-wise .
" Balboa " is a knockout - Stallone's best film in thirty years	When Sylvester Stallone announced that he wanted to make another " Rocky " film , we were still in the 1990s . No studios would finance the project after the critical and commercial failure of John G . Avildsen's " Rocky V . " For years , it seemed the prospect of another Rocky movie was impossible ( and laughable ) . Stallone's star continued to fade , but in 2005 , MGM underwent a management shift , and Sony stepped in and agreed to greenlight Stallone's sixth Rocky film ? for a fraction of the costs of the previous sequels , to be filmed low-key and without much of a marketing campaign per se . And here we finally have it : the final Rocky movie . And while it's easy to laugh at the idea of watching a 59-year-old Rocky enter the ring again , don't chuckle yet ? the long hiatus gave Stallone time to work diligently on his screenplay , pushing it through multiple re-writes , fixing problems . This is a grungy , down-to-earth Rocky ? the real Rocky ? and not the over-the-top caricature present in the last two films . The Reagan era theatrics are gone ? this is a bleak return to the original character , and the earlier sequels are almost entirely ignored ( for good reason ) . There are a few problems . As always , Stallone uses a lot of clichés in his film ? the " nice guy " routine worked a bit better in the original movie . ( Which isn't to say it doesn't work in " Balboa " ? but it feels a bit corny in today's age . ) Stallone also has a tendency to drag in poorly developed subplots ? the motivation behind the inclusion of a storyline featuring " Lil ' Marie " ( the girl he walked home in the original movie ) and her son , Steps , is admirable ; however , it could have been developed further . Similarly , Rocky's relationship with his son in the movie is predictable from the start : it's pure formula . If Stallone had just tweaked these problems a bit , he would have had a complete masterpiece on his hands ? easily one of the best films of the year . But as it stands , " Rocky Balboa " ? in spite of its flaws ? is still a rewarding achievement ; a refreshing return to form for the series and a poignant farewell to the character . After the abysmal " Rocky V , " Stallone has returned to his roots and delivered an appropriate goodbye to his most recognizable character . Stallone , in his best performance since " Cop Land , " is a beaten man . Rocky's love Adrian has died from cancer , and he runs a humble restaurant in South Philly where he is an unassuming host . Things chance when the current Heavyweight Champion of the World is pitted against Rocky in a virtual reality boxing match on ESPN ; the result ( Rocky wins ) ignites interest in boxing promoters , who convince Rocky to appear in an " exhibition " boxing match to reflect the virtual match . Stallone knows how to pace the movie ? the first hour is all character study . The training sequences we have come to know from earlier sequels ( which have become classically and humorously dated by today's standards ) are absent ; the modernized training segment is only a minute and a half long , and although it features Bill Conti's iconic " Gonna Fly Now " theme , it is noticeably less flashy and over-the-top than the previous movies ' training montages ; Rocky's trainer explains that by now he already knows the how's and why's of training , and Stallone's decision to shorten the training montage reflects this . The final boxing match is perhaps the first Rocky battle in three decades in which we are unsure of the outcome ; there was little doubt in our minds that Rocky would beat Mr . T in the third film , but here , we're not really too sure what's going to happen . Will he win ? Will he lose ? Will he live ? Will he die ? It's a testament to the strength of the movie that audiences are left in doubt until the very end . " Rocky Balboa " is not just good entertainment ? it's a solid film with an uplifting message . The original film had a moral , which became increasingly murky in later entries ; " Balboa " sets the series back on track . It's an inspiring story that reflects Stallone's own struggles over the past decade to get this thing off the ground . His passion shows ? this is his most personal project in thirty years and it also reveals just how entwined Stallone and his Rocky alter ego have become over the years . You can easily confuse the two here ? it's kind of a bittersweet finale after such a long journey over the years . " Rocky " fans are going to enjoy this ; regular filmgoers are going to walk away feeling pleasantly surprised , inspired and uplifted by a movie with a fairly obvious but nevertheless empowering moral at its center . Stallone has finally ? after years of trying ? brought back the character we fell in love with in 1976 , and seeing the real Rocky one last time was worth the wait .
Not totally flawless but certainly the best of the prequels and also the most entertaining	Almost thirty years in the making , George Lucas ' " Star Wars " space opera has finally reached its conclusion ( or has it ? ) and we are now able to judge the series as a whole . The good news is that " Revenge of the Sith " is not only the best of the prequels , but the darkest installment since " The Empire Strikes Back . " The bad news is that it isn't half as good as " Empire " and not even as entertaining as " Return of the Jedi . " The good news is that Jar-Jar Binks is only in one scene and doesn't say a single word . The bad news is that cartoon-ish CGI action sequences take his place and add to Lucas ' increasingly childish ambitions . There's more good news and bad news . The fan-reviled Hayden Christensen , as Anakin Skywalker , has less dialogue than he did in " Attack of the Clones . " Also , less time is spent on the love story between he and Padme ( Natalie Portman ) . Unfortunately , when he does speak , or when they are required to be intimate , the movie stumbles ? Christensen delivers every line in the same monotonous boredom that his devolution into the dark side doesn't seem all that big a deal ? except for dark circles under his eyes and a jaundiced complexion , he appears identical to his earlier self . Another flaw in Lucas ' story is that Anakin's decision to become a Sith Lord is too sudden ; although there is ample emotional conflict in Anakin's past and present leading up to this , Lucas spends such little time detailing these feelings that Anakin really doesn't carry much weight as a character ; when he turns , we don't feel anything significant is happening . The fault really lies within the material itself . Lucas should have employed a talented co-writer to polish up the script , as he did for the original trilogy . Not to sound unfair , but Lucas is simply no Mamet or Tarantino . His exchanges are clumsy , awkward and occasionally nonsensical . Lucas adds a mythic vibe to his jargon that is unnecessary ; for example , his referral to children as " younglings , " or the whole " Thy will shall be done Master " attitude . I know it's supposed to take place " a long time ago , " but that doesn't mean it has to sound quite as fake as it does . ( The actors ' sordid delivery doesn't help much , either . ) In terms of new characters , the one everybody's been talking about is General Grievous , a half-alien / half-mechanical hybrid with special abilities . Disappointingly , however , Grievous is a huge letdown . As a villain , the robotic General is hardly menacing ; it's hard to fear a character that incessantly coughs , wheezes and cowardly runs away every time a conflict occurs . Not only is Grievous a wimp , but also when he finally reveals his four lightsaber-wielding robotic limbs , the pay-off is anti-climactic ? in less than a minute he's handless . I am told he was much scarier in the animated " Clone War " films ; let's hope so . It seems as if I'm complaining a lot , huh ? Not really . These are just some of the things I disliked about " Sith . " On the plus side , the last hour of " RotS " turns into a brooding , menacing feature ; like " The Return of the King , " the entire layering of the film itself becomes clouded , caustic and caliginous ? somber shades oozing through every frame . The final battle between Obi-Wan and Anakin was far more exciting and entertaining than I thought it would be ? coming from someone who feels the novelty of the lightsaber battles faded away with the quality of the predecessors . Instead , I found Obi-Wan and Anakin's fierce showdown is emotional and tragic ? it is also centerpiece to the best moments of acting in the entire new trilogy ( Obi-Wan shouting at Anakin about how he failed him is pessimistic , depressing and real - - arguably the most genuine sample of dialogue from any other prequel . ) The reappearance of Darth Vader could probably have been presented slightly more dramatically than it is here ( inter-cut with birth / funeral sequences ) , and Lucas ' modifications to the famous suit ? namely the thinner face area , more rounded helmet and distinctly fake-looking mid-section ? make it look like a Halloween costume . But then the heavy breathing is heard and we all know , Darth Vader is back ! Yoda gets some good scenes here and there's a cameo from an old friend halfway through the movie . The parts involving Emperor Palpatine ( Ian McDiarmid ) are very entertaining and his battle with Mace Windu ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is exciting . There are some really dark moments ( such as Darth Vader's unexpected killing spree ) , even if they don't always feel totally genuine . Overall , " Revenge of the Sith " is not a flawless film and it does not solve all of the problems inherent in the other prequels . But ( and this is a big " but " ) Lucas DOES fix up some stuff ? as I mentioned above , Jar-Jar is pretty much gone , the lightsaber battles are more exciting , and most importantly the last hour picks up such a relentless , ferocious pace that it almost entirely redeems the earlier misfires . On top of that , it's stuffed with nostalgic references to the original trilogy that will surely whet every fan's lustful appetite . So while I can't necessarily say " Revenge of the Sith " is bereft of the criticisms of the other prequels , it's a generally solid closure to the trilogy and definitely the best of the three " Star Wars " prequels . I was willing to ignore many of its flaws because I was having such a fun time ? and to be honest I think that's partly the case with every film in the entire " Star Wars " saga . The difference here , as compared to " Phantom Menace " and " Attack of the Clones , " is that " Revenge of the Sith " is actually an entertaining movie ? and as a result you'll probably be willing to enjoy it as such and disregard the more frustrating moments .
The best " Mission : Impossible " - - or at least on par with the original	I don't think anyone will deny that the second " Mission : Impossible " was . . . well . . . to be blunt , crap . Way too long , silly , overly-dramatic and John Woo-ish for an " M : I " film , it also abandoned much of the basic concepts of the television show and first film in the series - mainly the whole spy angle . " M : I-2 " was an action film thinly veiled as something it wasn't . " M : I-3 " has a lot of action - more weapon combat than any of the previous movies - but it's also the smartest and most entertaining film of the series ( or , at least since the original , which I know was only two films behind , but it's been a decade and feels a lot longer ) . I was really worried because the ads for the movie didn't look very reassuring and the director , J . J . Abrams , was a TV veteran who had also co-scripted that awful Joe Pesci / Danny Glover blunder , " Gone Fishin ' , " a few years back . However , the direction is apt . ( Reminded me of Spielberg in recent years with his hand-held shots to be honest . ) The plot is confusing at the end because they try to implement the typical " twist " - and in that sense it's a lot more like the first film , which did a similar thing - but the build-up actually works quite well and the two hours + fly by . The acting - Tom Cruise picked up a lot of criticism recently because of his stupidity as a public figure ( being the Scientology-promoting , couch-jumping , Katie-loving , psychiatry-slamming guy he is ) , but he does well here - the audience only laughed at him a few times to be totally honest . The scene-stealer is Philip Seymour Hoffman , who is the best villain any of the " M : I " films have had yet . His strong presence and chemistry with Cruise makes the movie a lot better . The movie has its fair share of breathtaking multi-million-dollar action set pieces - including one aboard a bridge that involves helicopters that reminded me a bit of " True Lies " - but it also has a good number of quieter scenes , and builds up Ethan's home life before the action begins , which none of the other films managed to do . As a result he comes across as a believable and very human character as opposed to the long-haired mountain-climbing god he was in the last sequel . Overall , this is probably the best " M : I " ( although it's been too long since I've seen the first to really compare them properly ) and is leagues ahead of the last film . If you hate Tom Cruise and were one of the people who protested him by boycotting this movie , you may want to reconsider because as a film it's pretty good .
Very good	In 1991 , Bret Easton Ellis ' controversial novel " American Psycho " took the world by storm ? women accused it of being misogynist , sexist filth and others were understandably shaken by its brutal and graphic depictions of unprovoked violence and torture . Set in the 1980s , the book follows the story of a 27-year-old Harvard graduate named Patrick Bateman , who goes on a killing spree and murders " twenty , maybe forty people . " It was originally slated for circulation in 1990 , but Random House pulled out of distribution , fearing backlash . It was later released as part of a Vintage Series , and quickly sold over 250 , 000 copies , becoming one of the most popular ( and , to some , important ) literary works of our time . In the movie , Welsh actor Christian Bale portrays Bateman gleefully tongue-in-cheek , whether it's confessing to manslaughter over the phone ( " ? I just had to kill a lot of people ! " ) or dancing to Huey Lewis and the News ' " Fore " album before hitting an associate over the head with an axe . Patrick is a troubled guy . On the surface , he appears to be normal ? he's a Wall Street broker with a secretary , an expensive apartment suite , his own limo and a fancy business card . But on the inside , he's a monster ? complete with an insatiable blood lust and lack of empathy for fellow human beings . ( If he can indeed be classified as one . ) As a film and a novel , " American Psycho " is an attack on the absurdities of the ' 80s yuppie era ? sometimes the satire isn't very subtle , in fact it's often made very clear , but I liked it . Because the movie is so eccentric and over-the-top , and Bale is so loony and maniacal , the satire needs to be equally strong ? and it is . Whether it's business men drooling over each other's fetishistic business cards or Patrick discussing the nuances of modern pop music before killing more victims , " American Psycho " hits strong and hard ? this is a great , overwhelming cinematic and visual experience . It cannot be condemned for being unsubtle ? it never was . The performances are wonderful . Bale is superb as Bateman , totally embodying the character . As a man bewildered by his environment , and wanting only desperately to fit in , Bateman listens to Genesis and " Hip to Be Square " ; finally we have proof that too much Phil Collins and Huey Lewis will turn you into the next Ed Gein . Perhaps some fans of the novel will dislike Bale's performance ( at times , it almost seems comical , such as when he murders his coworker Paul Allen , played by Jared Leto ) . But I thought it was the perfect mix of introspection , self-hatred , outer-loathing , lust , conformity and schizophrenia . Bale manages to capture all of this perfectly , and by the end of the film , I could not imagine anyone else in the role . Willem Dafoe , Chloe Sevigny and Reese Witherspoon all have co-starring roles , but at the end of the day it is Bale who really drives this film home ? he's the reason it's worth seeing , and in part the reason it exceeds beyond the typical restraints of its genre . Since its release , many critics have accused " American Psycho " of being a watered-down version of the book , being both " politically correct " and " lacking satire . " However , I don't recall the last time I saw a man beat a dog to death with the heel of his shoe in a mainstream motion picture . Or chase after a prostitute completely naked , wielding a bloodied chainsaw . Or hold a gun to a cat's head and threaten to feed it to an ATM machine . In fact , when " American Psycho " was previewed before the Motion Picture Association of America , they gave it an NC-17 rating ? not for its violence , as one might expect , but rather for its threesome scene between Patrick and two prostitutes . Director Mary Harron cut footage from the film and finally managed to achieve an R-rating , but on a new " Uncut Killer Collector's Edition " DVD , you can see the film as it was intended to be seen ? and it's a real fine treat . Now excuse me , I have to go return some videotapes .
Brilliant .	If you have ever wanted to make a film , you should watch this documentary about an auspicious filmmaker named Mark who dreams of making an epic about his own life , aptly titled " Northwestern . " Mark is shown writing his script , casting the film , trying to promote it and gain money to finance it . . . halfway through the documentary he scraps it after he is unable to gain enough funds . He then finishes up an older film of his , " Coven , " which he had scrapped two years before . " Coven " really exists ( http imdb com title tt0225434 ) and so does Mark Borchardt . When I first saw this , I knew it had to be a mockumentary . It is not . I'm sure some scenes were staged , acted or re-shot , but it seems not many . I've heard and read from various sources that the majority of this film is realistic and factual . Which is actually rather sad , and scary . This movie will move you if you've ever wanted to direct a film . It is also an invaluable insight into the production of a film and just how hard it is to get one made . Not every wannabe turns into Quentin Tarantino , and " American Movie : The Making of Northwestern " exposes this sad fact very clearly .
A Solid , Action-Packed Thrill Ride !	' The Rock'The film that solidified Nicolas Cage as an action star and Sean Connery as ? well ? a guy who uses the F-word a lot , ' The Rock ' never ceases to slow on the action ; its plot is , of course , ridiculous , but I'm not looking for an Oscar winner in an action movie . Cage plays Stanley Goodspeed ( weird name number 1 ) , a chemical specialist whom disarms chemical bombs and such . Ed Harris plays Himmel or Hummel or something like that ( weird name number 2 ) , a respected General who one day decides , ' What the heck ! ' and takes Alcatraz prison hostage ; he demands respect for dead marines from the government , or he will release some ba-a-a-ad gas on San Francisco . Enter Cage , who must , with a pack of government marines , enter Alcatraz from underneath ( under water ) and take out Himmel / Hummel . That's where Sean Connery comes in as John Mason , the only man to ever escape Alcatraz unscathed . Connery ' agrees ' to help them enter the prison the same way he escaped . ' The Rock ' is pure , unadulterated fun . Nothing less , nothing more . It delivers everything you want in an action film : Explosions , guns , special effects , and more explosions . If you can't have fun watching a movie like this , you can't have fun watching a movie . Period . The acting in ' The Rock ' is nothing to scoff at . Nicolas Cage is great in this role , as in other action roles . The thing that is different here , however , is that Nic doesn't know how to use weapons much ; he is a chemical expert , not a trained FBI agent . So , it is more than humorous to see him running around defenseless ; especially seeing that it is Nicolas Cage , who usually plays action roles where he is the master of the weapons . Sean Connery is perfect for the role of John Mason ; he blends wisecracks , action and ? well ? Sean Connery . Ed Harris is also very good as Himmelhummelwhatever ; he seems a bit held back at times , but overall , his acting is as good as ever . The direction style in ' The Rock ' reminds me very much of other Nicolas Cage films , like John Woo's ' Face / Off ' and such . It is gritty , dark , and exciting . It adapts to the characters ' emotions . The first thirty minutes or so of ' The Rock ' are nothing special ; I almost stopped watching at one point . But once they get to Alcatraz the action picks up and never slows down . Explosion after explosions after gunfight after stunts , leading to an explosive ending ( literally ) that may be predictable to a certain degree , but nevertheless lotsa ' fun . All in all , ' The Rock ' is the kind of movie where you sit back , turn off your brain for two hours , and have some slam-bam fun . stars ? John Ulmer
Sloppy beginning but once the plot kicks in , it's great	The beginning of " 13 Rue Madeleine " is quite sloppy . The prologue opens with an unnecessary narration in which the audience is briefed on the methods of recruitment for O . S . S . agents in World War II . It plays less like a movie and more like a documentary ( a cheesy one , too ) . Once the plot kicks in , however , it is a great deal better . James Cagney stars as Bob Sharkey , one of the recruitment officers / trainers who is told there is a German mole in their operation . Sharkey plants traps for the mole and figures out who it is . . . but he has no idea that there are actually TWO moles in his recruitment operation . He ends up briefing the other mole and divulging secret plans for a " fake " mission set up to trap the other German . The two German spies exchange information regularly so the outed man is given the information and manages to avoid falling into the trap ; he actually outsmarts Sharkey and joins the rest of the O . S . S . agents on a real mission into France to find a V-2 rocket . Piecing together the clues , Sharkey goes behind enemy lines to find the moles - but is captured by Germans at 13 Rue Madeleine . This movie has so many twisty turns that it reminded me of " The Usual Suspects , " " Spy Game " and " Basic . " ( As far as modern films go . ) It's better than " Basic " and " Spy Game " put together , though . As an espionage thriller its dramatic irony is delectable ( I hate to use clichéd descriptions here but it's the only word that comes to mind ) . I really loved the setup ( after the sloppy opening narration which I hated ) and the way the plot moves - and the pace at which it unfolds - is excellent . A lot of modern thrillers are lazy and have cheap gimmick endings . " 13 Rue Madeleine " didn't insult my intelligence at all . The acting is very good and Cagney delivers another great performance . I know I'm using the word " great " quite often to describe various elements of this film , but that's the word that best sums it up : " Great . " Flawless ? No . But very entertaining , very smart , and very good .
Better than the remake	Martin Scorsese's version of " Cape Fear " had its moments , but overall was something of a chaotic picture . Its " satire " ( or lack thereof ) didn't really have a point , and its over-the-top visuals seemed to be compensating for a lack of content . It seemed less like Scorsese and more like DePalma . Thompson's original is better - more scary , more thrilling , more diabolical and realistic . Whereas De Niro's scenery-chewing performance in the remake was almost laughable , Robert Mitchum's spine-tingling turn here as Max Cady is one of the great human movie monsters - he's a demon at spirit , no in physicality . He seeks revenge on Gregory Peck and his family after Peck puts him away in jail for a few years . Scorsese's version was more updated and in that sense its general themes were more believable - Cady's psyche was more exposed , his violence exploitative - and the romance between Cady and Sam Bowden's daughter in the original is nonexistent . In fact , the extent of his harm towards her is when he chases her around an empty school . Still , this is a better version of the movie because it has more strengths than the remake . Visually it's not as impressive but it makes more of an impact as a thriller .
Fast Eddie is back !	People misunderstood " The Color of Money , " I think . There are a few things to keep in mind : 1 ) This was a Martin Scorsese film . Scorsese was fresh off " Taxi Driver , " " Raging Bull , " and other such successes from less than a decade before . People were expecting a lot . 2 ) It starred Paul Newman , returning to his character from " The Hustler , " in a sequel that was twenty-five years in the making . That's longer than the wait for the " Phantom Menace " prequel . Perhaps for those two ( very strong ) reasons alone , when " The Color of Money " opened in 1986 , the critics and audiences didn't think much of it . It garnered decent praise from both areas but most critics seemed to agree : it didn't hold a candle to " The Hustler , " and anyone other than Scorsese could have easily made the same picture . After 19 years , I disagree . I think " The Color of Money " is not only an intelligent and amusing character piece , but an excellent continuation of a character we haven't seen for 25 years . First of all , Scorsese's direction isn't his best , but it's still very good . And he's definitely got the same elements going on as " After Hours " from a few years before - - his cinematography is identical and the dark colors and grainy ' 80s vibe are present in every frame . Likewise he's using the quick-cuts and zooms and iconic panning shots that he's known for . The thing is , Scorsese's styles just changed a bit during the 1980s ( they even carried on into " GoodFellas " - - the night-time shots carry the same foreboding look as " After Hours " and " Color of Money " ) . I think now , looking back , since we've seen more of Scorsese's films , it's easier to notice that this is indeed a Martin Scorsese film . A man who is constantly changing his directorial approach . ( Just look at " The Aviator " for goodness sake ! ) Newman deserved the Oscar more for " The Hustler , " of course , but for what it's worth , Fast Eddie Felson's evolution is handled with care in the script and it's very entertaining ( for anyone who's seen the original ) to note the change in his behavior . It's also interesting to see the new cocky pool hustler , Vince ( Tom Cruise ) , filling in the shoes of Eddie from a few decades before . If " The Hustler " was a great insight into the life of a troubled young man , then " The Color of Money " is a terrific insight into the evolution of this man , and the contrast between the young and the old . All adults tell us as children that they were just like us at one time , and we don't believe them . " The Color of Money " follows this principal - - in thirty years , we all know Vince will be just like Fast Eddie : wise and matured . And then he'll probably be coaching a young guy who thinks he's the king of the world . Will they make another sequel based on this continuation of the story ? I doubt it . It's unnecessary , because as far as I'm concerned " The Color of Money " has already stressed the point . But you never know . . . Overall this isn't a great movie and I won't pretend it is . But I do think it's one of the better films to come out of the 1980s and had a lot more going for it than some of the critics gave it credit for . Film buffs should see it , especially those who loved " The Hustler . "
Another Offer You Can't Refuse !	" The Godfather Part III " isn't really a necessary sequel , and to be truthful it's not really one of the best sequels in recent memory , but is it a bad film ? No . In fact , had it not been for the extraordinary first two films , I firmly believe this movie would have been hailed as an epic ; but due to such a broad expanse of years from the second film ( 1974 ) to this one ( 1990 ) , audiences were given too much time to work up extreme expectations , especially with the major success of the first sequel . Many people just expected another equal sequel . It's just a good sequel . Al Pacino returns to his role of Don Michael Corleone , much older since we last saw him and with a daughter ( Sofia Coppola , Francis ' daughter ) . He is still split from his ( ex ) - wife , Kay ( Diane Keaton ) , and Tom Hagen ( Robert Duvall ) has since passed to the other side , though rumors have it his character was originally in Ford and Mario Puzo's script , only to be dumped when Duvall turned down the script because he believed Pacino was getting too much attention . ( Though I have my doubts over the accuracy of that rumor . ) Michael wants out of the Mafia . He wants to work legitimate . He's been trying to turn his business into legit dealings for a while now , and he realizes that the sins of his past will never completely go away . He decides to hand the reigns of power over to his ex-brother Fredo's son ( Andy Garcia ) , a young , eager soul with energy and excitement . But things do not go so well . Michael tries to be a mentor to his trainee but it is a difficult task . Michael goes through turbulent times , not to mention that he must deal with his daughter falling in love with the future head of the family ( they're cousins , which , when you think about it , is just plain nasty ) . Michael tries to get his son interested in becoming the head of the family , but he will have no part of it . He is bent on becoming an opera singer , to turn from his family's past and ignore his father's pleads . Michael is left with some difficult choices , and we see that all the power in the world can't control the inevitable . " The Godfather Part III " has its flaws . One of them is the casting of Michael's daughter with Coppola's daughter - she has , one might say , no acting ability whatsoever . Garcia is bright and talented , and fits the part he is playing . Pacino isn't quite as energetic and powerful as he was in the first two films , in fact he looks pretty tired here , but I believe that's the point . Some people really hate this film . I thought it was quite good . It's a good continuation , though I do not hesitate to admit it could have been much better . The film seems a bit corny at times , and there are some bad casting choices , one of which I have already mentioned above . But it is an entertaining film , one that no " Godfather " fan should go without seeing . It's a worthy ( hopefully ) last installment , one that gives more of the same but still manages to hold the audience's interest . There are rumors flying everywhere of yet another " Godfather " entry , but quite honestly I think it's a bad decision . They should leave the series as it is and move on to other projects . Puzo is dead . Coppola hasn't made a good film in years - heck , he hasn't even produced a good film in years . Al Pacino's character would be hard to bring back , and if you've seen this film you know what I'm talking about . A prequel would just be messy and unexplained , not to mention confusing . To follow Andy Garcia's character would seem pointless - some things should be left to our imagination . I doubt as to the importance of another sequel , as it would , at this point , just be a cash-in . The script by Coppola and Puzo is interesting , but it seems too try a bit too hard to be an epic at times . It just serves as a reminder that this film was not needed as an intallment in the series . " The Godfather Part " was great , " The Godfather Part II " was superb , " The Godfather Part III " is probably the best film of 1990 . Which , looking back at twenty years from now , probably won't amount to a hill of beans . But it's a start . stars - John Ulmer
Take note , Chevy Chase - this is how you accept a proper roasting !	Although I have not personally seen the entire program , I have heard from numerous sources that the " N . Y . Friars Roast of Chevy Chase " broadcast on Comedy Central a few years ago was such a disaster that even Comedy Central acknowledged its failure and vowed never to air it on television again . So far they have apparently kept to their promise . Part of the reason the show was so horrendous was apparently due to the fact that the roast's subject , Mr . Chase , did not approve of the jokes targeting his career . He was also upset that none of his old " friends " from his " SNL " days had shown up ( except for one or two no-names who never found a career outside of the program ) - the same " friends " of Chevy that later voted him as the least-liked cast member in the history of " SNL . " Now , I hold nothing against Chevy Chase . He's pretty funny ( well , was , anyway ) in those ' 80s comedy like " Vacation " and " Caddyshack . " But from what I've seen of the program he really didn't understand the concept at all . William Shatner , on the other hand , takes the extreme criticism in stride . He's a good sport all through this roast - some of the jokes are truly brutal , ranging from verbal jabs at his alleged hairpiece to his singing career and of course his infamous acting chops . Shatner's good humor surrounding the entire ordeal elevates this program - because I'm sure I would have felt less content to laugh along with all the jokes if Shatner had thrown a Chevy Chase and been a jerk about it . This isn't quite as good as last year's Pamela Anderson roast , I must say . Overall the jokes are tamer ( excluding some crude references to a gay " Star Trek " castmember and his private activities , so to speak ) - which isn't necessarily a bad thing , but I felt as though a lot of the dirtier stuff had been cut out . This doesn't bother me as much as the fact that the cuts were made fairly obvious . No doubt Comedy Central will feature some type of " Uncut " DVD in the future with bonus material " too raunchy for television . " Plus , I absolutely HATED the fact that they cut numerous roasters ' speeches short . I understand there were time constraints , but the first one who should have been axed was Farrah Fawcett , whose speech was absolutely horrid . Apparently trying to make fun of her notorious Letterman appearance from a few years back , it quickly dissolved into another case of a joke falling victim to its own subject - she was wasted out of her mind ! She completely messed up her jokes , kept turning away from the microphone ( making it hard to hear what she was saying ) , and just generally ruined the vibe of the entire thing . The audience members ( including Carrie Fisher , who gets stabbed with jokes a few times linked to her weight gain ) were straining to laugh . Instead , I would have FAR preferred to see comedy genius Fred Willard's speech . They decided to cut it short and give us probably less than a minute or so of what he actually said when the show was recorded last week . Willard is such a fine , dry comedian - chances are his jokes just weren't understood by the editors of this show , who are obviously in favor of the more obvious , deliberately crude material . Basically the whole thing about the gay Star Trek member was funny the first few dozen times , but it's akin to Pam Anderson's boob jokes from last year getting old - enough is enough . Not that I'm complaining , but Andy Dick and Kevin Pollak were also cut short ( I could go without hearing Dick's entire routine , I admit ) - and the editing is more choppy than last year's roast , resulting in noticeable skips - as if the editors selected the " best " of each roaster and spliced it together . But these flaws aside , the show WAS very funny . I laughed my head off when Ben Stiller appeared in a pre-recorded roast to Shatner . Unexpected and hilarious , Stiller's was one of my favorite segments of the entire program ! Jason Alexander was a surprisingly good host , although he seemed a bit hesitative and unsure at times . Overall I think I preferred Kimmel's more cynical presentation from last year's , but again , it's a minor complaint . Overall if you're a fan of these roasts you'll love this . There are some great moments such as the Shatner music flashbacks - including video pieces from his infamous " Rocket Man " performance from years ago . Shatner takes it all in stride and comes across as a really nice , likable guy - even after all is said and done he gets up and delivers a tongue-in-cheek roast to himself . This may not be quite as unexpected , irreverent or downright hilarious as the Pamela Anderson roast , but just barely . My only complaints , as I mentioned above , were the editing choices , really - apart from that , it was another job well done on Comedy Central's behalf ! As an aside , I'd really love to see " The Roast of David Hasselhoff " next year . NO ONE deserves a roast as much as this guy does . So I'll have my fingers crossed for the next year , I suppose .
Solid conspiracy thriller with a great twist at the end	" Blow Out " is a loose remake of " Blow-Up " ( 1966 ) that alludes to many factual conspiracy theories and political cover-ups / events ranging from presidential assassination to the JFK Chappaquiddick accident . It uses elements from " Blow-Up " but , in my opinion , improves upon them and isn't as cheesy and dated as the 1966 film . It stars John Travolta as Jack , a sound effects expert who works on low-grade porn films for a living , unable to achieve anything greater . One night while out recording sounds to be used for later projects , he inadvertently captures the sound of a crashing car , personally witnessing it dive into a nearby lake of water . He jumps into the lake , rescues a girl ( Nancy Allen ) from within the car , and becomes a hero for about five minutes , until some suspicious men approach him at the hospital and ask him not to tell anyone what happened . Feeling uneasy about what's going on , Jack investigates into the accident and realizes that the driver of the car was a presidential nominee , and the girl was his mistress . Jack plays back his audio tape of the accident and hears something strange in the background - - a gunshot . Finally understanding that something big is going on , Jack teams up with the mistress and attempts to unveil the conspiracy surrounding the event - - whilst being pursued by a strange and mysterious hit-man ( played eerily well by Jon Lithgow ) . " Blow Out " is one of Quentin Tarantino's top three favorite films of all time , and like many film buffs , that was one of the only reasons I even was aware of its existence . I picked it up on DVD at a relatively cheap price , expecting a clever thriller with a ( hopefully ) satisfying conclusion . I would not say that " Blow Out " is one of the greatest movies ever made , but it is one of Brian De Palma's best films and a very good suspense thriller . It features one of John Travolta's best performances with some really great references to popular conspiracy theories , placed in a more easily accessible and realistic setting . As a result the story seems entirely convincing and scary ; De Palma is often accused of copying Hitchcock , and although there are definite homages to the Master of Suspense in " Blow Out , " De Palma also implements enough of his own tricks into the film to establish himself as one of the best directors of the time . ( What a shame that he had to go downhill from here . ) The final twist at the end of the movie is totally unexpected . It's not your typical thriller conclusion where there's a big surprise - - instead the fate of the characters themselves is the surprise and for that reason alone I would say " Blow Out " is far more unique than many other films in its genre . Recommended .
Very unexpected	A lowly woman gets on a French subway and is traveling in silence when a man suddenly appears and announces that he is in search of a woman as he hasn't been in love for over two years and is tired of feeling empty . People laugh and scoff at the man but he ignores them , and asks any woman who is interested to get off at the next bus stop . Well , the bus stops , the woman gleefully gets off , turns around - only to realize the man on the bus was doing it solely for entertainment , to gain money from travelers . The film ends with her standing on the platform , alone . I was taken aback by the suddenness of the ending . It's pretty powerful , especially considering it's only four minutes long . But the director manages to convey a lot of things just through facial expressions , particularly the woman's . Pretty brutal little film , but a very good one .
I was really , really surprised .	I saw this listed in my TV guide as playing at around 2 : 30 in the morning . It had no film synopsis , just " Film , starring Michael DeGood . " Michael DeGood sounded like a porn star's name and it was named " The Pornographer " so I figured it was some low-grade porn flick . I didn't expect to watch it , but as I was flipping through channels late on Friday night I came across it and was immediately interested because of the fact that , despite its cheap " feel " and porn-film style , it was NOT a porn film and was in fact a very interesting character piece . It seemed to be a movie like " Taxi Driver " - - an examination of a morally degraded man unable to make contact with the outside world . DeGood is no Robert De Niro but he did come across as a very realistic person . Whereas " Boogie Nights " was an excellent satire / examination of the porn industry , " Pornographer " is more of a realistic examination of a porn addict and an average man . It's more honest than " Boogie Nights " through the fact that it's less stylistic and more raw and dirty - - more nudity , often appearing as if it's a porn film , but never losing sight of its goal . I liked the honesty of DeGood's character . He can't talk to women but he can watch a porn film and talk dirty to the screen . Somehow it seemed very real . A balding , average guy seemed to me the perfect choice for the character of Paul . Overall " The Pornographer " isn't as good as " Boogie Nights " but for my money it's more of an honest portrayal of a man rather than an industry . It's a really good character piece - - don't be deceived by the title !
Bowie fans will treasure it	It was hailed as his " farewell tour " - a career-spanning retrospective setlist with all his greatest hits , and the more recent instant classics such as the Trent Reznor collaboration " I'm Afraid of Americans " ( a surprisingly catchy tune ) . Bowie's vocals are at his best here - his voice has certainly improved with age . It's deeper , has more range and his falsetto is simply amazing . Songs like " Rebel Rebel , " " Space Oddity , " " Ziggy Stardust " and " Suffragette City " are entirely catchy and others can range from mellow to upbeat . This is an essential DVD / audio CD for any fan of Bowie . If you're not a fan it's also a good place to jump in because it has all his best songs in one place . Or , start with the Singles album , which has the studio versions .
Creepy classic psychological thriller	Rosemary and her newlywed husband Guy move into an apartment - but not all is well as Rosemary experiences troubling physical pain and soon realizes that she is pregnant - but with what , exactly , inside her ? She soon begins to believe that her soon-to-be-child is evil - and the odd behavior of her husband and new neighbors only confirms this theory . " Rosemary's Baby " is a classic thriller , probably the start of the creepy psychological thrillers we see today ( or at least the disturbing sort ) . The real breakthrough was of course " Psycho " eight years earlier but this has a hard edge that is reminiscent of many films today - it is in no way better than " Psycho " but it is still very good and influential in its own way . It was Roman Polanski's first US movie and he proves here , his earliest mainstream effort , why he is continually a great director - despite what may have occurred in his private life he's a great visionary director and evokes some extremely scarring images in " Rosemary's Baby . " Highly recommended .
One of the best Vietnam films	Sally ( Jane Fonda ) has a husband fighting in Vietnam and she feels optimistic about American involvement there . However she works at a hospital as a nurse and soon becomes caretaker of a bitter war veteran named Luke ( Jon Voight ) . At first , she is repelled by him - but over time grows to love him and admires his cause . ( Luke feels the Vietnam War is a mistake and that countless innocent lives are being pointlessly lost . ) " Coming Home " is the quintessential Vietnam War film - it's anti-war , pessimistic , gritty , depressing , and ultimately sort of whining . Some Vietnam films to go a bit overboard on the " tears for the poor souls " stuff and become very politically correct - " Coming Home " is like this and that might turn some viewers off . However I thought the plot , characters , directing and writing were all interesting . Hal Ashby ( " Shampoo " ) shows talent behind the camera and Jon Voight and Jane Fonda display chemistry in front of it . I'm not typically a fan of Voight ( or even Fonda to be honest ) but they both do a good job here . Voight's final rousing speech to the classroom of students at the movie is simultaneously touching and uplifting . And the love scene is handled with care and doesn't seem gratuitous or unnecessary . " Coming Home " may have its flaws , but I think it's one of the better " Vietnam movies " to come out of the era . You should see it if you enjoyed " The Deer Hunter " or " Platoon . "
Very clever , very funny political satire .	Two great political satires came out around the same time as each other - " Bulworth " and " Wag the Dog . " Both received praise from critics but it was " Bulworth " that received more award nominations . . . personally I think they're both equally poignant but you can't win ' em all . Warren Beatty writes , directs and stars in this movie about a bitter and exasperated liberal Democrat candidate who suddenly breaks down and decides to " tell it like it is . " He goes on radio talk shows candidly discussing taboo matters such as sex and racism , seemingly alienating his audience . . . however when the polls come in it turns out the public feels more comfortable with an honest politician than a dishonest one - and Bulworth becomes very popular , especially with the younger crowds . Watching a sixty-something Warren Beatty dressed up in bling-bling rapping like a black man in a movie might sound like a really lame idea for a simple joke . . . and honestly when I saw the ads for this film I originally thought , " Dear god , the Wayans Brothers have gotten to Beatty too . " It looked like something out of a " Scary Movie " . . . umm . . . movie . Anyway , it was a lot better than I thought . Halle Berry ( pre-Oscar , pre-long-acceptance-speech ) stars as Beatty's potential love interest ( ! ) in the film . Bulworth hits on her at a race-separated club in the slums of the city . . . kind of a funny scene . The best thing about this movie is its bitter , cynical treatment of politics . As a true cynical at heart I found this quite irreverent and funny and have to admit - Beatty , as much as I don't like him , is damned funny .
Funny and unique	A man is walking home down a quiet sidewalk in NYC . Suddenly he sees three men on the opposite side of the street - and remembers how , as a child , they had attacked him with dodgeballs . A stash of dodgeballs is conveniently sitting on the side of the street . He knocks over a carton of them and a battle ensues , in which he artfully dodges throws from two huge bullies and a flexible skinny guy . This short film is very unique , and quite funny . Steve Carell made it before he shot to popularity last year with " The 40-Year-Old Virgin , " while he was still on the " Daily Show . " It takes the mickey out of films like " The Matrix " and I believe the final shot may have even been a reference to one of my favorite films , Sergio Leone's " Once Upon a Time in America . " If you're looking for an unpredictable short film with a good bit of clever humor , check this out . And if you're wondering where you can find it , do a search Yahoo ! Video .
A fun tongue-in-cheek referential horror film from the writer of " Scream " . . .	THE FACULTYA Film Review by John Ulmer ( Copyright , 2004 ) " The Faculty " piggybacks a lot of great horror films , but also provides a great modern perspective of them all in this multi-remake . Its references range from " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " ( the film's primary inspiration ) , to " Pod People . " But this is no surprise - - the film was penned by Kevin Williamson , the guy behind the self-aware horror hit " Scream " One and Two , as well as " I Know What You Did Last Summer . " ( One of my least favorite horror films of all time , surprisingly . ) This is one of his best efforts . It involves a pack of kids at a high school in Idaho who begin to suspect that their teachers are aliens from another planet . A comical idea , yes ? That's what I thought . Then I started getting into the movie and realized that it was one of the most fun - - if silliest - - horror films in recent memory . John Hughes would love this film . We have The Nerd ( Elijah Wood ) , The Criminal ( Josh Hartnett ) , The Jock ( Shawn Hatosy ) , The Princess ( Jordanna Brewster ) , The New Hot Babe ( Laura Harris ) , and The Basketcase ( Clea DuVall ) . As I sit at my keyboard and recall the plot and characters , I realize just how routine and clichéd the film really is . But none of these clichés struck me as I viewed the film , which is a bit startling in retrospect . The Nerd , a pre - " Lord of the Rings " Elijah Wood , begins to suspect that his teachers are aliens after the football coach ( Patrick Stewart , the T-1000 from " Terminator 2 " ) inserts a strange alien creature into another teacher's ( Salma Hayek ) ear . A moment later she is fine , and rejects the boy's claims that the coach assaulted her . Then the school begins to be taken over by the alien species , which thrive on H20 and seem intent on taking over the entire planet . Before they do , however , the pack of kids form together and try to stop the aliens . The Criminal ( who is really smart but plays down his genius ) creates caffeine-based drugs at his home that dehydrate the aliens and destroy them . So with drugs in hand , the kids march against the aliens in an effort to stop the queen alien . " Since when did you become Sigourney Weaver ? " one of the kids asks another . Where , I wonder , are these kids ' parents ? As these events go on , they seem pretty careless . The Criminal has an entire drug factory in the basement of his house . Do his parents know this ? Do they even care ? The film doesn't provide a very large backdrop . It is so weak with character introductions , in fact , that it supplies us with freeze-frame name credits every time we see one of the kids ' faces . ( This is usually an early warning side of a bad movie - - check out " Dude , Where's My Car ? " if you need more proof . ) The cast is pretty impressive ; along with all the other actors I mentioned above , there's also Christopher McDonald , Jon Stewart , Piper Laurie and Famke Janssen . Pretty impressive . I wondered what drew them to the project before I saw the movie . Then I understood . This is fun . People don't see the fun in this movie because they criticize the flaws too much . It's not meant to be taken seriously - - in case you haven't figured out by now , " The Faculty " is entirely referential and tongue-in-cheek . It's not a remake , as so many critics perceived after their screenings . It's a subtly funny parody . The film is directed by Robert Rodriguez , who is infamous for having strong style but weak plots . His film " El Mariachi " was the breakthrough , and it was followed by two sequels , " Desperado " and " Once Upon a Time in Mexico , " both starring Antonio Banderas and Salma Hayek . Hayek is in just about every single one of Rodriguez's films - - she was even in last year's " Spy Kids 3-D : Game Over . " I wonder if his inspiration is John Hughes , who constantly cast Anthony Michael Hall , Ally Sheedy , Molly Ringwald and John Candy in his films . Here Hayek has a small part , and the film mostly belongs to the teenage characters . As I think over everything that happened in the movie , it's almost laughably bad - - the things that happen are ridiculous . Very clichéd . But yet I had a lot of fun watching " The Faculty , " and any movie that convinces me it isn't stupid when , in fact , it is , is worthy of a recommendation in my book . This is a well-done horror film . I wish they were all as fun and tongue-in-cheek as " The Faculty . " Then I wouldn't hate the genre as much as I do at the present . stars . - John Ulmer
A lot better than it's given credit for .	Sci-fi-action-thrillers haven't been done very well since " Terminator 2 , " or , if you prefer more strict sci-fi films , " Total Recall " ( 1990 ) . Both starred Arnold Schwarzenegger . Now he's back in a film that is not only fun but conceals an important message . It's about cloning . It is the future . ( " The very near future . " ) In the future just about any animal can be cloned at " Re-pet , " a store devoted to cloning your ex-pets . Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Adam Gibson , a family man with a wife ( Wendy Crewson ) and daughter ( Taylor Anne Reid ) . He strongly dislikes futuristic devices ; in a time where people laser shave , Adam still uses an old-fashioned razor blade . His friend , Hank Morgan ( Michael Rapaport ) is all for the future and what it holds ; he even has a virtual girlfriend . But after Adam comes home one night to find someone in his house ( " There's someone in my house , eating my birthday cake , with my family ! " ) , he grows worried and soon finds a cloning conspiracy headed by a man named Drucker ( Tony Goldwyn ) and a scientist played by Robert Duvall who isn't quite so sure he's doing the right thing . " The 6th Day " pretty much flopped when it came out . Not only should it not have flopped , but it should not have been so easily ignored . As we see now , with parents asking judges to " create their own babies genetically , " our times are nearing much closer to those in " The 6th Day . " The film is not just an Arnie action flick ; it's a bit more . The underlying roots of the film are not only important , but also contain " Back to the Future " - type paradoxes . For example : they make clones by taking " blanks , " fitting them with the genetic structure of the human , then insert their memory ( filled on chips of some kind ) into their brains . As Roger Ebert roughly stated , when you are a child - - let's just say ten for right now - - you get a memory-scan or whatever they're called . Then , when you're fifty , you clone yourself at age ten . You could actually raise yourself . Of course , the question is whether you would want to raise yourself , but that's merely a technicality . And could you imagine if time machines and cloning devices existed in the same future ? The results and / or possibilities are endless . One other thing I liked about this film is that they do not disclose the year . Just like " Star Wars " and such films , it becomes much more wonderful and suspenseful when it does not disclose the year the film takes place . In this movie , they say , " In the very near future - - closer than you think . " The movie was directed by Roger Spottiswoode , the man responsible for , among other things , " Turner and Hootch " - - that dog-buddy movie with Tom Hanks that I found pretty darn infectious and charming - - and " Tomorrow Never Dies , " a James Bond actioner I found weak and stupid . This stands out as one of his best . He clearly has an idea of the future and how it should look . Many of the actual objects of the future - - from dolls to cars to virtual girlfriends - - are given such familiarity and deep thought that we start to believe we really are in the future . " The 6th Day " doesn't try to show off the future ; it sets us in the future and tries to make us believe . And it does so greatly . " The 6th Day " is not only an important film , but an extremely entertaining one , too . On the plus side , the filming technique is very futuristic , but not the millionth rip-off of " Blade Runner " - - dark and broody . The only other film I can think of that dealed with the future and did not rip-off " Blade Runner " is " Back to the Future Part II " - - which used bright colors to represent its future . And as for the people who complain Arnie is too old in this movie - - were you expecting his age to decrease during the filming ? The nature of man and aging is involuntary - - get over it already . " The 6th Day " is the rare sci-fi film that leaves you pinned to your seat in awe . It's thrilling , fun , humorous , and adventurous . The images of the future burst through the screen like the hovercopters we see and they make a direct route right into your brain . This is a spectacular movie with a clear vision of the future - - don't miss it .
Way ahead of its time	This movie would have been greeted with praise if it had been made fifteen years later . 1960 was too early and , as a result , its director ( Michael Powell ) was pretty much blacklisted from ever making movies again . Powell , a Brit who influenced ( amongst others ) Martin Scorsese , was also responsible for the 1943 film " The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp , " an unarguable masterpiece . " Peeping Tom " is about a man who videotapes his victims as he kills them . He has a strange fetish for death and the implications of the film are mainly the reason it was supposedly banned in so many places . The acting isn't great , and some of the co-stars are a bit amateurish . But its direction is superb , and it really captures a voyeuristic approach - it's uncomfortable on a subconscious level , sort of like " Rear Window . " If you can appreciate this for what it is , I definitely recommend it . Non-film buffs may have a harder time warming up to it , but hopefully not .
Kevin Costner sticks to his guns .	I have more respect for Costner after having seen this . I've never really liked him very much as an actor - sometimes I criticize him too heavily just for fun , but once in a while he'll surprise me and deliver a good performance . This is one of them . What's even better , though , is how Costner doesn't cater to the teen audience with this film . It's an uncompromising , intransigent film . Costner spends two and a half hours chronicling the story and it's very much character-driven , bringing to mind " Classics " of the genre such as " Unforgiven " and " The Good , the Bad and the Ugly " in terms of operatic appeal . On the commentary he says some critics and audience members criticized the film because it was too slow . " Carts really got stuck in mud , " he says , referring to the five minute scene where his character tries to get his horse to pull the wheels out of the wet ground . " This stuff really happened . " That's kind of daring given the fact that teenagers today have five-second attention spans . . . if that . He even packs on the R-rating for good measure . Great stuff . Robert Duvall stars as Boss along with Costner as Charlie Waite , Abraham Benrubi as a cook , and a mangy dog as The Dog . Basically this 16-year-old kid gets shot and beaten by a local rancher's men . They get thrown in jail for confronting the guys and the corrupt town sheriff ( James Russo - bringing to mind Gene Hackman from " Unforgiven " ) and , most importantly , the rancher himself ( Michael Gambon ) . The rancher practically owns the town so when the men are released from jail they decide to go on a revenge spree by raiding the town and killing the rancher . ( Except it takes them about two hours to decide upon this course of action . ) I know my plot summary's a bit brisk and bitter but I'll be honest . . . I really enjoyed this movie . I loved how slow it is - it's not purposelessly slow but rather takes its time to focus on the characters , and as such their final decision seems more real and intriguing , rather than becoming another standard deus ex machina / cheap ending where they all blow each other to smithereens . The violence is handled well , too , and the final shoot-out is surprisingly tasteful . ( The R-rating is something of a shock because Costner implies violence rather than exploits . ) The performances are all on-key and Duvall and Costner both come across as normal everyday ranchers who have experienced a lot in life . This is a very good film and a testament to the fact that Kevin Costner - now fatter , balder , and less egotistical - makes better movies when he's not high on his own self-esteem . I see a new side to his artistic vision with this and I hope he continues to express his individualism in this way , rather than resorting to acting in films like " Waterworld . "
Still the only good " Batman " movie . One of the best superhero movies to date . . .	I'm not a very big comic book geek . I own three comic books I got for a buck and perhaps some odd number of others tucked away somewhere that I got at a bargain sale . They're not a hobby of mine . I've never been a diehard superhero buff , either . Years ago I used to watch Batman , Spider-Man and Superman cartoons on TV , and I still do when I get the chance . But I've always liked Batman . I've always preferred Batman to Superman . Superman is a typical superhero with inhuman powers . Batman is a normal guy trying to keep the streets clean . No superpowers , no inhuman strength , no flying , no web slinging . Just willpower . I just don't find any joy in Superman , really . Even the old grainy cartoon shows that started with " It's a bird ! It's a plane ! No , it's Superman ! " never thrilled me half as much as watching the old goofy Batman show with Adam West , or the modern cartoon show . I love Spider-Man and his recent big-screen adaptation , but even he doesn't quite match Batman , perhaps the darkest of all superheroes . Michael Keaton is the title character in Tim Burton's " Batman . " He plays Bruce Wayne , a rich billionaire conglomerate owner who straps into his cool Bat Suit when help is needed . This can be a tricky affair , too , since he has to keep up two images at once - - one of a carefree businessman and the other of a troubled crime fighter . And his love life with Kim Basinger is disastrous ! The movie shows us that his nightmares come back to haunt him ( and us ) , and that his newest foe - - The Joker ( Jack Nicholson ) - - is also his oldest , because before The Joker got his facial features mutilated in acid , he was a street thug ; he just so happens to be the murderer of Bruce's two parents , too . Coincidence that the two would meet up years later and have to battle together ? Yes . The Joker plans on taking Gotham City under his own control , but he and Batman have a difference of opinion on the matter . Forget the stupid sequels ( particularly the one with George Clooney ) and forget the bad reputation the series has - - this is the film that started it all , and is arguably the only good " Batman " movie out of the three others following it . ( Four next year . ) Tim Burton presents Gotham City perfectly - - the way it was in the comics and the way it wasn't in the television show . This is a great example of moody surroundings , and it's never too much ( like the second film ) . It's right on target . Burton's direction is truly what separates " Batman " from , say , " Daredevil , " and all the other pale imitators . Notice the darkness of the entire series and you'll understand the concept of this entire franchise . Bruce Wayne's world is dark and consumed by hatred for crime and love for peace . By using such a dark backdrop , we are presented with Wayne's interpretation of Gotham City - - and it works beautifully . Michael Keaton isn't the best example of Bruce Wayne , although he is one of my favorite actors and I think that - - considering his personality - - he adapts well to that of a billionaire businessman who fights crime . Keaton possesses the look of a disturbed man - - someone who is bothered by society and is eager to rid the world of evil after crime fighting becomes a personal thing for him . ( Val Kilmer also did a great job of exhibiting this same type of overwhelmed exasperation in " Batman Forever , " although the film itself was rather silly and extravagant thanks to Joel Schumacher's direction . ) Arguably one of Jack Nicholson's most fondly remembered roles , The Joker is represented as a goofy crime lord with a big sense of humor - - thanks to Nicholson . He was bashed upon the film's release for being too " over-the-top " and " camp , " but the original television show had the same type of tongue-in-cheek attitude that the sequels ( especially the fourth film ) all lost . ( Although Schumacher's films were TOO over-the-top , for sure . ) Nicholson's role really helps make this film what it is today . " Batman " is a very popular superhero movie , and I must say that it's one of the best . Upon numerous viewings recently , I've noticed its flaws a bit more every time - - but it maintains a steady sense of fun that the sequels all lost . " Batman Returns " was too dark and strange for my liking , the third film was just a bit too bright and over-the-top , and " Batman and Robin " . . . well . . . the less said , the better . This is the best of the series . It's not a great film by any means , but it's an entertaining , and is - - to date - - the only good " Batman " movie . ( That may change next year , mind you , when Christopher Nolan tries his hand at a " Batman " sequel - - with Christian Bale in the lead role . It's about time the series gets treated with a fresh approach . ) stars . - John Ulmer
Don't We All Want To Fall Down Sometimes ?	Michael Douglas and Robert Duvall star in a film that portrays life as true , funny and aggravating as it really is . Douglas is wonderful in his role of an average Joe Schmoe gone haywire , and Robert Duvall is vivid and deep as the cop on the chase . Falling Down may have a few incredibilities ( though I remember going through a lot of situations in the film Douglas went through-though I never was angry enough to pull a shotgun out ) , but it's more symbolic than anything . I think the funniest part is the burger restaurant , obviously a mimic of McDonalds , and Douglas ' reaction . It's kind of like he realizes , " Hey , I'm this far , why not complain about the burger while I'm at it ? It's always bugged me anyway ! " Falling Down represents all Americans : the aggravations , road rage we hear about , everything . Every day situations in a new perspective . stars - JOHN ULMER
Very crude and definitely for adults , but outrageously funny	This program had caught my interest weeks before its air date . Something about it appealed to me , although I didn't expect much . I thought it would be a cheap piece of exploitation - typical Comedy Central trash . To some extent , I was right . It's very vulgar , very crude , and very , very raunchy . But I was surprised at just how funny it was . I was laughing so hard I fell off my sofa and almost cried - it's outrageous stuff . The comedians assembled for the roast are all very talented , and they each deliver their own speech - it's like watching a Greatest Hits compilation of various comedians delivering their best jokes . The guests at the roast are quite famous faces . David Spade ( through video communication ) , Tommy Lee , Andy Dick , Adam Carolla , Courtney Love , Anna Nicole Smith in the audience , Jimmy Kimmell , and so on and so forth . All very sleazy celebrities for the most part , they add to the program's raunchiness . I was shocked by just how much they got away with . The jokes are some of the most explicit I've heard uttered on television - they were bleeped out the first time Comedy Central played it , but a lot of the stuff made it through - primarily the names of vital body organs . My only problem with the show is that it's so sleazy it's almost a bit sick to find yourself watching it . And too much time is spent focusing on Tommy Lee's famous physical attribute - every comedian cracked a joke about his schlong and Andy Dick even simulated oral sex on him . It got lame after a while . A few days after it aired , Tommy Lee said , " I got tired of all the jokes being about me . You know , it's for her , it's like . . . here she is , focus on her . " And I agree with him , it got to be tiring after a while . Nevertheless for the most part this is a very funny ( if very , very crude ) " Roast " and Pamela Anderson was a good sport through it all . She endured a lot of verbal humiliation and took it in good spirit . I personally enjoyed most of it and even got a chance to see Tommy perform his new single from the album " Tommyland the Ride . " It's a really good song and it's a solid performance . At the end of the day you may find yourself shocked by the content in this program , and perhaps you might even feel a bit ashamed to be watching it , but if you can ignore its crudity it really is one of the funniest programs ever aired on television - it attracted 16 Million viewers , one of the highest rated Comedy Central programs in history . Apparently word traveled fast .
Great , but requires more than a single viewing	When I first saw " Blade Runner " I was severely disappointed as I felt it had wasted a great deal of potential . I didn't like the acting much , I didn't like the music and the whole neo-futuristic-film-noir thing wasn't very impressive as it's been aped in films for the past two decades and some of them have done it a bit better . I felt the romance between Harrison Ford and Sean Young was entirely unbelievable and given very little time to develop - it's him suddenly wooing her and romancing her without much actual chemistry forming . Their romance is a vital part of the story but I felt it was given very little focus . However on second and third viewing I suddenly realized what a masterpiece " Blade Runner " is . I seemed to " get " it ; perhaps I understood the point of the film's ending more . I originally loathed the wacky OTT climax , considering it stupid and unoriginal / unimaginative - but on second viewing I picked up on all the subtleties and was touched by Hauer's final speech , particularly the " like tears in rain " moment . Overall this really is a fantastic sci-fi film noir story - it successfully mixes various genres . Its effects are a bit outdated now and if you sit down to watch it expecting too much you're likely to be disappointed - it has its fair share of flaws ( from technical to story-wise ) but if you can overlook some of these it really is a great deal of fun , even if it's not " the " best science fiction film ( as some people have claimed ) .
" Overrated " ? Nope . It really is one of the year's best films .	A lot of people were disappointed by Clint Eastwood's " Mystic River " ( at least those I talked to ) and said it didn't live up to the critical hype . I was one of the few who wasn't disappointed and felt it was as good as its reputation would lead one to believe . When " Million Dollar Baby " came around , I knew it was a film I wouldn't want to miss . I used to / occasionally box and this film doesn't really capture the training struggle that " Rocky " did . Like " Raging Bull , " it's more of a character study set against a backdrop of sports . ( " Rocky " was , too , but of the three , it was the most sports-heavy . ) " Baby " isn't really a " sports " movie , it's all about characters . It works very well . Eastwood's direction is superb . I don't know if his performance was Oscar-worthy , but then again , I don't recall Clint ever crying ( at least so convincingly ) in any of his other films . Morgan Freeman and Hilary Swank both deliver great performances . It's a really fine film , a well-told story and a heartbreaking character study . If you liked " Mystic River , " you'll love this .
You have to experience it . . .	Great spy-spoof of Hitchcock's classic 1930s film ( remade in the 50s ) in title only involving an American tourist ( Bill Murray ) getting put in a fake spy program by his frustrated brother ( Peter Gallagher ) , who only wants peace and quiet . The catch : He gets caught up in a real spy scandal , mistaken for a top secret American operative working undercover in Britain . Having lived in London for most of my life , moving back and forth twice from England to America , this movie is a fun culture clash comedy that uses one of comedy's dryest , funniest personalities to its advantage . Lots of fun , slightly ruined by a madcap ending that , in retrospect , actually seems quite pleasant and enjoyable . stars . - John Ulmer
Very good fantasy film . Very much under rated !	The problem LABYRINTH had was the timing in which it opened . People just weren't into fantasy as much back then . I guarantee if this film had been released this or last year , it would've been a big hit . Films like Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings did so well , that people would have been open to accept other fantasy films like LABYRINTH . LABYRINTH has loveable and very creative characters , good acting ( Jennifer Connelly has now won an oscar for A Beautiful Mind BTW ) , very original looks to it , and is just plain filled with imagination and fun . Kudos to George Lucas and Jim Henson productions for this aspect of the film . LABYRINTH is worth every cent of the price , and I highly recommend it to you if you liked the other fantasy movies out this past year . stars . JOHN ULMER
A beautiful film	" The Spiral Staircase " starts off with an afflicted woman being murdered , and right from the onset I was surprised at how explicit it was for its time - by today's standards it's nothing you don't see every day on television , but 1946 was a very different time . It then moves onwards and we are introduced to a young woman who is mute and lives in a mansion with a long , spiraling staircase . ( Hint : this pays off later in the movie . ) When it's made known that a killer is making his rounds murdering afflicted women , the owner of the mansion fears for the mute woman's life - and after a string of more murders occur they realize she's next . RKO's picture was far ahead of its time . Someone on here said it's not a film noir and commanded that people stop calling it one . I'll disagree . I think it IS film noir , in the sense that it's a personal struggle for one person who's surrounded by death and murder . I don't think it should be left up to one person to decide what " film noir " really means . I do think there are limits of course ( " Batman Returns " is NOT film noir , it just tries to come across as one ) but no one should say , " This isn't a film noir because it's a thriller . " So what ? Loads of film noirs are thrillers . I personally feel the stylings , the themes and the motif of the movie could be classified as " film noir . " It's a beautiful movie to look at , very well filmed , and the ending is probably one of the best I can remember ever seeing . It's had a few remakes over the years , but the first remains the best - by a long shot . Highly recommended .
Brilliant ? Maybe . Pretentious ? Yes . Refreshing ? Definitely . A great film ? I think so .	" Magnolia " is pretentious . It's understandable why so many people seem to loathe it . It is a film that demands split praise - for every person who loves it , there is another who hates it . It helps to know P . T . Anderson . This is not his best film , it is merely his most popular . " Boogie Nights , " for example , is more effective . But because this deals with everyday themes , and is an amalgamation of day-to-day ideals , it received more attention from audiences . That Tom Cruise's wide-toothed grin was boasted on all the ads might have also had something to do with this . Cruise took on the film because it paralleled his own life . He visited his father's deathbed after a falling out , and the script " spoke to him . " Very well . Unfortunately , whether or not the film " relates " to him doesn't change the fact that he's just playing the same role he's always played : Himself . He may be a sex guru in this film , but it's still Tom Cruise . The real talents are those who are subtler and more restrained . William H . Macy plays a gay man named Donnie , and his entire performance is concealed within few physical gestures . He sits in the bar all night lusting after the bartender , too afraid to speak to him . It's a really touching performance , and without saying much at all , Macy makes you care for him . Philip Seymour Hoffman plays Phil Parma , who is given the task of tracking down the son of a dying millionaire . His performance is very good as well . And perhaps the best of them all belongs to John C . Reilly , the underrated character actor whose performance as a police officer really brings a lot of life to the project . Many of these actors have worked with P . T . before and their familiarity shines through . Macy , Moore , Hoffman and Reilly are all comfortable . The film is at its best when it focuses on all their plights at a distance , and let's us evaluate each character on our own . People say P . T . Anderson is a unique talent , and some of this is true , but those who claim " Magnolia " was an attempt to bash repetitive films are wrong . P . T . , like many directors , pays reference and homage to his heroes . There were numerous Scorsese moments in " Boogie Nights " and here there seems to be quite a bit of Kubrick . The scene with the dying man in bed , when the camera takes on an angle from above , is identical to a scene from " 2001 . " Is " Magnolia " pretentious ? Yes . Is it the best P . T . Anderson film ? Not in my opinion , no . It seems this is P . T . ' s most commercial film and its success at the box office and on home video seems to confirm this . As a result , many P . T . fans like myself will find " Magnolia " somewhat of a " sell out " compared to , say , " Hard Eight , " " Boogie Nights " or his 2002 project " Punch-Drunk Love . " It's still a great picture , a sprawling epic that it perhaps a bit too ambitious for its own good . Overall , it's an excellent movie that demands the viewer to participate rather than fixate . That's a rarity in any film these days .
Axl's voice at its best since the early ' 90s - FAR better than the ' 02 tour	I've become highly skeptical in recent months of Axl Rose and his " new " Guns N ' Roses . I was fully supportive of them up until last year , but I guess once my fanboy mindset settled and I went back to some of the older music I realized that there are always two sides to a story - and certainly this is the case with GN'R . After this tour kicked off I realized they were just doing the same setlist as 2002 all over again with a couple new songs , and I had to question whether Axl felt the music from Chinese Democracy was really worthy or whether he just didn't want to unleash all of it yet . The 2006 tour was rather strong and Axl's voice has clearly improved since 2002 . The first show kicked off in NYC in May and had guests such as Mickey Rourke , Lenny Kravitz and even Paris Hilton in attendance . But as the tour progressed I got bored with the setlist as aforementioned and Axl's performance at Rock in Rio 5 really disappointed me . However , Rock am Ring was a real breakthrough - it's by far the best show I've seen or heard by the new band lineup and Axl's voice is at its strongest since the early 1990s . A few songs are " iffy " - The Blues is disappointingly flat when it comes to the vocals ( despite a cool twist on the ending that I hadn't heard before ) and as always Axl really seems incapable of singing Sweet Child O ' Mine properly . Also , despite ATROCIOUS vocals in 2001 and 2002 , you can sense a real loss of energy on his behalf - he's getting up there in his ' 40s now and his hard-living lifestyle from a decade ago is catching up with him . At times he looks very young and at other times he could easily be mistaken for a man in his mid-'50s . The cornrows don't help much , either . However , I was blown away by Axl's vocals on Nightrain and Welcome to the Jungle here . By far the best performances of these songs I've seen in years . Nightrain was simply amazing , and although his vocals aren't as strong as they were back in the ' 90s , they're in a whole other league apart from - the rasp is back . Fantastic stuff . Slash may be gone and I'm not a big fan of the new fill-in , Bumblefoot ( who took over from Buckethead who departed in 2004 ) , but the solo on Nightrain is amazing . The new band really does play it better than the 1990s lineup in terms of excitement - it's overwhelming . This gave me restored faith and hope in Guns N ' Roses after a fairly underwhelming 2006 tour ( mainly due to the setlist and repetitive nature of the whole thing ) - this was a great way to end it . As for the new songs - IRS is performed here quite well ( off to a weak start but the rasp kicks in midway and Axl's energy is above average ) and unfortunately Madagascar was cut from the broadcast . Better is fantastic and the vocals , energy and overall performance of the song is the best I've seen yet . Overall this is the best display of " new " GN'R - comparing this to their 2002 VMAs performance is almost laughable . Whereas Axl's appearance then was laughable and his vocals sounded like Mickey Mouse being raped by an elephant , his vocals now are noticeably stronger ( albeit still weaker than back in his prime ) , his image is MUCH more like a typical " rock star " and the band doesn't seem like a bunch of goth misfits - Robin Finck has ditched the NIN look and the absence of Buckethead ( despite his amazing technical skills ) does give the band a more " credible " image . An essential show for anyone who's wondering whether Axl still has it - the answer , in short , is yes , he does : the problem , it seems , is that he just chooses not to give it his all sometimes . The Nightrain performance from this telecast alone is refreshing .
I don't care if he " stole " from Bill Hicks ; it's damned funny .	Only recently have I heard that Denis Leary allegedly " stole " from the late comedian Bill Hicks . What is ironic is that Hicks stayed out of the spotlight until his death , and now that Leary has become more popular Hicks is , in essence , becoming more famous AFTER his death due to the " Leary / Hicks " controversy . I haven't heard enough Hicks to be able to intelligently debate whether or not one " stole " from the other - all I know is that Denis Leary makes me laugh . And whether or not he stole from Hicks , he's since gone on to do his own acts and form his own style and appear in films - " The Ref , " for example ( one of the most underrated comedies ever ) , is great largely due to Leary . His fierce attitude and energy and rough attitude are all him . He may have stolen some tricks from Hicks but Hicks is dead now , and he's been dead for a while , and Leary's continued on churning out stuff that I think is very funny - and which is NOT stolen from anyone . On the IMDb message boards a user named Tom Myers writes : " Hicks didn't write any of Leary's material . Sure , they talk about similar things , but I own all of Leary's and Hicks ' albums and there is no blatant ripping-off of a joke . Yes , there are similarities in personalities , but given that the two men did not emerge until the early 1990s , there is no way to figure out which comedian originally came up with which piece of material . There is even a possibility that Hicks could have used some of Leary's material ( Jim Fixx , voice boxes ) as Leary mentions in his book , also titled " No Cure For Cancer , " that he was doing bits about drugs and smoking as early as the 1980s . According to many Hicks biographies , Hicks did not take up smoking until he gave up drugs in , long after Leary started doing bits about smoking . " Anyway , this comedy standup act is classic . It contains some of the best rants of all time and Leary goes from one to the next like a madman . I really enjoy listening to it and watching it from time to time , and a lot of the stuff he talks about I can find myself relating to . Highly recommended for anyone who wants to laugh . Ignore the controversy , see it for yourself and if you like it , go get some Bill Hicks and compare .
Yes , it lives up to its reputation	Probably the Marx Brothers ' most famous comedy , " Duck Soup " is a hilarious and wacky slapstick comedy that even manages to take a stab at politics . Groucho plays Rufus Firefly , who is appointed the new president of Freedonia . He has a dubious stance on work ethic and attempts to cut work hours by reducing the length of employee lunch breaks . Mrs . Teasdale , who has donated twenty million dollars to the failing country , becomes the object of affection for Rufus , who has to battle for her hand against Ambassador Trentino of the neighboring country Sylvania . Soon their tumult escalates and war is declared between the two countries . Most people who comment on this film seem to indicate that they saw it at a very young age and have grown up with it . I can honestly say I wasn't given the opportunity to ever see it until recently , when I finally managed to watch it on Turner Classic Movies , completely uninterrupted . Although it is not consistently laugh-out-loud , tears-in-your-eyes hilarious , " Duck Soup " is very funny - and not quite as outrageous as I had expected . There's a lot going on here , aside from silly physical humor . The Marx Brothers are great as usual and as usual Groucho steals the show . Ultimately if you've never seen this , you need to go rent it out right now . If you have seen it , you already know how great it is and why it deserves its reputation as one of the most beloved comedies ever made .
Funny But Not Great . . .	" Miss Congeniality " is a bit disappointing in a few ways . It's funny , but not as funny as it could have been . With the given material , it could have been Sandra Bullock's Next Big Hit , like the sleeper " While You Were Sleeping , " or the action film " Speed " ( not to be confused with drugs ) , but instead we get a funny film with minimum laughs . What could have been hilarious is just funny . Ms . Bullock plays a cop who goes undercover at a beauty pageant to catch some bad guys . Unfortunately , she is a frizzle-haired she-man tom-boy , with no idea of what women really do . But everyone at the police station get a surprise after gay man Michael Caine gives her a makeover , and she turns from an ugly duckling into a beautiful swan . Of course , now she must compete in the beauty pageant , judged by William Shatner , and along the way she has to be stuck with countless beauty-freak women who powder their noses at all hours . This drives Bullock's character crazy , and I guess that's really all this film is about . Sandra Bullock is one of the most impressive actresses in Hollywood right now , mainly because she is not overly-beautiful - - she can fit everyday parts . It's a bit harder to find someone like Angelina Jolie , with big breasts and puffy lips playing a cop ( " The Bone Collector " ) than seeing Bullock play one , mainly because she can seem very tom-boyish as we see in the beginning of the film . I've always thought that her jaw is ( a bit ) big . Her facial features seem to be a bit strong , and it kind of gives her a not-too-beautiful look , causing her to be able to play just about any role she wants . Oh , and unlike Angelina Jolie , she can act , too . Another thing respectable about Miss Bullock is that she doesn't seem to have had any surgery done to make herself appear more attractive - - someone like Jolie looks like a Barbie Doll more than a human being . Therefore the only roles she can get are in films like " Tomb Raider , " yet because of Sandra Bullock's appearence , she can seem to fit any role . Michael Caine wouldn't be my first choice as a gay beauty expert , but his acting is so good that it doesn't matter . It's hard to even tell his character is supposed to be gay , other than a quick one or two references at the beginning of the movie . But regardless of that mess , he seems to fit the part pretty well , and delivers a good performance . William Shatner is funny in a parody role , and provides only more comic relief . " Miss Congeniality " was a bit disappointing , but with actors like Sandra Bullock , Benjamin Bratt , Michael Caine and William Shatner , you can't really go wrong . . . can you ? Verdict : stars - John Ulmer
Incredibly raunchy , disgusting and disturbing - brilliant !	" Ren & Stimpy " was really never a children's show at all - the creator of the series , John K . , had always leaned towards more adult animation . I have a feeling whoever signed the contract to put the show on a kids ' network later regretted the decision , and it's a large part of why the original series was canceled after only a few years , despite a massive fanbase . It was too dark and too filthy for children , and a lot of parents started reacting and complaining to Nickelodeon , which stopped airing the reruns altogether . In 2003 , Spike TV picked up the show after a long absence and began creating " Adult Swim " - style episodes that were intended for mature audiences only . I have yet to see these adult episodes , but I have to say I thought the early episodes of the show - such as this - were probably more clever anyway , because they were subtle in humor - there are numerous sexual references in just this episode alone . Powdered Toast Man scrapes magical cinnamon powder off of his bread , resulting in a very blatant masturbation image . The President gets " something " caught in his pants zipper at a urinal and Powdered Toast Man has to help him . Powdered Toast Man tells a man he has rescued to " tenaciously grab " his buttocks for support . And so on and so forth . I'm not sure how much of this made it to the final episode - I have a DVD collection and this is allegedly one of the " uncut " episodes from Season One , which means when it was first aired they must have severely edited some of the more raunchy material , but I do happen to recall seeing this on Nickelodeon years ago and I believe much of it was kept intact . The show is visually more disgusting than anything " South Park " has ever done , which I find really quite humorous given the fact that " Ren & Stimpy " was initially perceived as a children's show . Now the DVD box set has a warning to parents : " This show is intended for mature audiences . It contains adult language and situations . "
Very funny - but the real strength of the film is being able to relate to the characters	Our story begins when a male nurse named Greg Focker ( Stiller ) is about to propose to his girlfriend , Pam ( Teri Polo ) ; unfortunately , things come to worst and before Greg can say , " Will you marry me ? " he finds out that Pam's father , Jack ( Robert De Niro ) approved of Pam's sister's fiancé because he asked Jack's permission to marry her first . Taken aback , Greg decides to wait until tomorrow , whence they are going to meet Pam's parents , and ask Jack for approval before proposing to Pam . Should be a piece of cake , right ? Wrong . Pam's mother ( Blythe Danner ) is very nice , but herein lies the problem : Not only is it apparent from the start that Pam's plant-expert father is not really a plant-expert ( as Greg learns after Jack doesn't seem to recognize a plant Greg gives to him - - one of the rarest plants in the world ) , but it turns out Jack is really in the CIA and was a " human lie detector , " as Pam herself puts it . In fact , Jack even gives Greg a lie detector test in one scene to see if he liked the dinner earlier in the evening . " Yes , " Greg replies , to see the needle jumping . " Well , it was a little rare for my tastes , maybe . " Greg , desperately seeking approval ( and nervous as ever ) , seems to unintentionally cause mayhem in his possible parents-to-be's home . Nerves shot like a drug addict , Greg is the definition of a nervous wreck , and all his problems seem to escalate more and more until a funny-if-sappy comedic showdown . You know how sometimes you are really nervous , but try to hide the fact ? You seem to keep your cool , until you do something , then all your nervousness explodes and you start knocking over things , saying stupid things - - single-handedly DOING stupid things that you just never do ? And then you look around and everyone is looking at you like you are some sort of freak ? Well , that's how it is with Greg's character in " Meet the Parents " - - he is so easy to identify with . Just like all of us , we want to keep our cool and impress people - - but once we lose it , the coolness seems to slip farther and farther away from our grip until we are klutzes on feet . For Greg's character , small things turn bigger and bigger and bigger - - from knocking over the remains of Jack's mother ( and having a cat go to the bathroom on the remains ) , to setting the house on fire and busting the septic tank . Situations seem to escalate farther and farther out of control and they just keep getting worse and worse . In one scene , Greg tries to impress everyone while playing volleyball in a pool . His team is losing because of him . " Get up and hit the ball , " Jack says to him . So the next time the ball comes around to Greg , he jumps up and smacks the ball with all his might , sending it flying towards . . . Pam's sister ( whose wedding is the next day ) , shattering her nose . Greg lands back in the pool and seems to be happy , until he realizes he smacked his sister-in-law-to-be in the nose . Then everyone looks at him like he's an insensitive idiot . Things like that have happened to me countless times , and that is why I can so easily identify with Greg . People are yelling at Greg to do something , and when he finally does it , it backfires and everyone looks at him like he's stupid , even though he did exactly what he was told . That's the kind of thing that makes this movie so great - - not only is it extremely funny , but we can easily identify with the main character countless times throughout the film . That is , perhaps , the best thing about this comedy .
Powerful and disturbing short feature - Scorsese's message is as sharp as the razor blade in the film	Martin Scorsese is one of America's finest directors , and my favorite director of all-time ( although on occasion I do replace him with Hitchcock and he drops down a notch ) , and I had been looking for " The Big Shave " quite a long time after initially reading about it in Empire Magazine UK . Their review was positive ( it was from an issue devoted to Scorsese's film career , in retrospective ) and ever since then my curiosity had skyrocketed . Well , today I finally found the film and watched it . Although it is only six minutes long , it manages to say so much more than unnecessarily excessive and repetitive films such as Oliver Stone's " Born on the Fourth of July . " The movie begins with a young man beginning to shave , and after a few strokes of the blade he begins to bleed . And he begins to bleed more . . . and more . . . until finally his entire face is a bloodied mess , and the film finishes with him slitting his own throat - - peacefully , I might add - - and setting the bloodied blade down on the edge of the sink . Now , is this disgusting and shocking ? In a way , yes . It's very gruesome to watch - - especially the bit where he slits his throat with no emotion or reaction at all . However , Scorsese's point sharp and effective . Overall , this is a short yet devastating allusion to the Vietnam War - - and can be taken a few ways ( as a criticism of the mental deterioration of vets and / or a message that we , as Americans , should not agitate something when we don't have to ) . If you're a fan of Martin Scorsese , this is a must-see , and I highly recommend seeking it out .
This " School " Rocks . . .	It was just a matter of time until a film like this came along . A slacker decides to transform a bunch of repressed children into well-educated young adults . Wait a minute , what am I saying ? Films like this have come along many times before - - " The Dead Poets Society , " " Mr . Holland's Opus , " " Hardball , " and " The Emperor's Club , " and that's only naming a few titles of many . But here's a movie so different from the rest it deserves some type of attention . Gone are the clean morals of , say , " Mr . Holland's Opus " - - here come lines like , " Stick it to the man ! " with a trailer that advertises , " . . . a man who taught them to break the rules . " These rules , by the way , are applied and kept in order by a private elementary school , where Dewey Finn ( Jack Black ) is posing as a teacher in order to get some cash to put together his own rock band . " ' The Man ' is everywhere , " he preaches to a small group of children . " You've gotta stick it to him . " So they stick it to " The Man " by forming a rock band during school hours and entering into the Battle of the Bands - - in hope that they'll win the jackpot reward for first place . I need to start at the beginning . Dewey Finn is a slacker loser who plays guitar like a pro - - the only problem is that he gets stoned when he and his band are performing and embarrasses his fellow players . After they kick him out prior to preparing for the upcoming Battle of the Bands , Dewey decides to form together his own band by getting some money . But how ? Dewey's roommate Ned Schneebly ( Mike White , who also wrote the film and a song in it ) is a substitute teacher ( " Not a temp ! " ) , and so when the phone rings and the call is for Ned , Dewey decides to pose as his best friend in hopes of getting some quick cash . He soon finds himself at " the best school in the state , " teaching a class of strange kids and trying to avoid getting found out by the principal ( Joan Cusack ) . A school dropout himself , Dewey only knows one thing : Music . So he teaches music to the kids after finding out they can play various instruments - - piano , guitar , drums , and even the cello ( which he decides to leave out of the forming band ) . Dewey decides to enter his " School of Rock " into the Battle of the Bands , much to the laughter of other competing bands . But he has true faith in his pack of school kids . That's part of what makes the film so inspirational and different from the other junk adorning the market right now - - this seems real , and so does the affection , and Jack Black turns Dewey Finn into a likable character - - the opposite of what someone like Adam Sandler might have done with the kids . ( I can see him in the role , but the film would undoubtedly have been a bit less of a serious comedy - - it would've turned into a loud , noisy , sporadically amusing comedy . ) The movie uses a lot of old cliches , but they all come off as - - at the very least - - acceptable , given the material . This is a refreshingly refreshing comedy , the type of film that makes you feel good after leaving the theater - - which is a very rare thing these days . The final Battle of the Bands is both realistic and uplifting . Even the end credits are fun to sit through . The film completely relies upon Jack Black as its carrier , and lucky enough for the film he is a very good lead . This is the film lover's version of a Rob Schneider or Chris Farley . Black has been around for a long time , always playing good co-star roles , and in " High Fidelity " he proved that he was more in-tune with the present times than any other recent " SNL " comedian . Not that Adam Sandler is bad given the right material , but how many times do we have to put up with re-makes of " Happy Gilmore " ? Black is arguably one of the funniest fat comedians since John Candy , when given the appropriate material . He's the type of comedian who could become quite annoying very quickly , but with the right material and director focusing behind the camera he turns out to be funnier than most guys out there . Black's ability to pick increasingly good scripts is something John Candy never seemed to be able to master ; although I think it was basically because Hollywood didn't want Candy to get good scripts . Once and a long time there comes the surprise hit wonder . Nobody ever thought that " School of Rock , " a movie starring Jack Black as a slob rock guitarist , would ever amount to anything . But it turned out to be one of the most critically-praised films of the year , and after seeing it for myself , I have to agree that this is a well-made film that has certainly been done before , but rarely this good , and even rarer is the formula ever this likable . stars . - John Ulmer
Good insight into Dylan's life	Having been a casual listener of Bob Dylan , I found this documentary rather insightful and well-made . Narrated by Dylan , director Martin Scorsese basically interviews friends , colleagues and family of Dylan ( as well as Dylan himself ) and gets to the roots of his inspiration and upbringing . As I said above , I'm not a huge fan of Dylan insofar that I'd be able to tell you all of his songs , albums , etc . Some of my personal favorites are " Like a Rolling Stone , " " The Man in Me " and of course " Knockin ' On Heaven's Door . " The film's soundtrack uses Dylan songs which is a nice addition as well . It's four hours long and when screened on TV comes in two parts , so you may have to see it in two viewings . But I found out a lot about Dylan that I didn't know before and I think that's the point . Well-made , well-documented .
Superb on all levels	This vintage film noir from 1947 stars Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall . Sadly , it's one of their more forgotten efforts , rarely played on television ( save specialty channels like AMC and TCM ) and not given much of a DVD treatment in the vein of Bogie's other movies . However " Dark Passage " is easily one of his best films . It's enthralling , well-acted and very well directed . The methods and techniques were WAY ahead of their time - the first-person POV , for example , is something I can't recall seeing in films before " Halloween " in 1976 . The real brilliance of this movie is that it hides the face of its hero for so long , then unmasks him s Bogart halfway through the film . The plot centers around Bogart escaping from jail to track down his wife's killer . It's nothing special . The best thing about this is how wonderfully ahead of its time it was . If you like film noir ( as I do ) , you'll love this .
A look at the series before it turned humorous - and it's the best !	Stephen King named it the most ferociously original horror film of 1981 and it topped the video rental charts of that year ? but then censorship reared its ugly head and Sam Raimi's " Evil Dead " was brutally chopped and heavily criticized by the more conservative folk of the times . In the UK it lay at rest for many years , considered " dangerous " and unsafe for viewing due to its excessive gore and infamous tree-rape sequence . In the US ( where distribution seemed less controversial ? see also " A Clockwork Orange " ) it faced a similar but less consequential fate . Nevertheless the cult base grew and today " Evil Dead " ? released on DVD tagged with an NC-17 rating ? is hugely popular amongst film and horror buffs . Its star , Bruce Campbell , was as unlikely a hero as cinema had ever had ? a fearful , cowardly guy who doesn't have it all together and isn't a big macho , gung-ho leader type . It is hardly surprising then that Campbell would be the only actor to establish a successful career afterwards . Filmed on a $350 , 000 budget with a cast of no-names , its influential directorial work , excessive violence and infectious attitude would proceed to inspire a legion of upcoming directors ? even Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez paid their respects to the film with their cheeseball vampire flick , " From Dusk till Dawn , " which is a lot like the " Evil Dead " series ? both start out as serious , dark films , and later turn into comedic self-satire . " Evil Dead II " was less a sequel and more a remake ? made with a larger budget and what Campbell himself referred to as " splatstick " humor , it referenced the Three Stooges whilst still maintaining the gore level of the original . Then " Army of Darkness " ? the most commercial and childish of the trilogy ? became almost totally humor , Campbell's character " Ash " Williams turned into a chainsaw-wielding one-line-spewing tough guy-comedian , and the grim nature of the original seemed lost in the chaos . Suffice to say no one can criticize the " Evil Dead " series for lack of creativity or imagination . Looking at " Army of Darkness " it's hard to imagine it even relates to the original at all ? " Evil Dead " is a serious ( to some extent ) horror film whereas " Army of Darkness " involves time-traveling and the concept of having a chainsaw for a hand . Groovy . The plot is too familiar ? a group of lovestruck teens head out to the woods for a bit of alone-time . Once there they stumble upon a mysterious tape recording and the " Book of the Dead " ? once the passages inside are cited aloud , the undead will rise from the earth . So how unfortunate that the tape recording conveniently cites the passages and all hell breaks loose . The plot doesn't make much sense . We're led to believe these demons that lurk in the woods are at rest yet when our heroes arrive at their cabin , strange goings-on occur before the Book of the Dead is even found . There's also something else that makes absolutely no logical sense whatsoever , but revealing it might ruin part of the story . Doesn't matter . This isn't a thoughtful horror film . Continuity is not favored either ? shots rarely follow each other in a cohesive manner . The greatness of " Evil Dead " is not its professionalism ? instead , the opposite - that for such a low budget , Sam Raimi was able to construct such a chilling and gruesome horror tale unlike any other ( at the time , anyway ) ? he didn't shy on the comic book-style violence , nor was he willing to sacrifice keeping the audience unsatisfied by slowing down the pace . This is a fast , brutal movie . Bruce Campbell is admittedly more comfortable with himself and the character of Ash in the sequels , but the overall scary nature of the film ? its serious horror and lack of over-the-top humor ? is more to my personal taste than watching a grown man playing Three Stooges with a couple of skeletons in a graveyard . That's not to discredit the sequels ( " Evil Dead II " is almost as good as this ) but if I could only pick one , I'd go for the first ? and best ? of the bunch . A must-see for film buffs , horror aficionados and anyone who likes a good , creepy , unique film . ( It's the only time you'll see someone raped by a tree - honest ! )
A revolutionary film .	It is obvious from the opening credits that " To Kill a Mockingbird " is going to be a great film . Competing against David Lean's epic " Lawrence of Arabia " at the Oscars in 1962 , " To Kill a Mockingbird " would have been guaranteed Best Picture if Lean's film hadn't been in the race that year . Gregory Peck gives his best performance as Atticus Finch , the southern lawyer who takes on the case of a black man accused of having raped a young white woman . Many town residents accuse Atticus of many things for defending a black man , and his children ( Mary Badham and Phillip Alford as Scout and Jem ) are even attacked at one point . This is not a happy movie , and in fact for its time it must have been rather bleak . The hero doesn't necessarily win ; it is the opposite of the typical courtroom dramas where the protagonist lawyer proves the defendant is innocent and the real criminal is put in jail . Without giving away too much of the plot , suffice to say it's not quite so simple in " To Kill a Mockingbird . " Not everything works out the way it should . The direction by Robert Mulligan perfectly evokes the era , mixing the racial intolerance with the peachy-clean familiarity of southern America . Peck's portrayal of Atticus was named by AFI as the # 1 movie hero of all time . I don't necessarily agree with this , but it is one of the most memorable performances of all time and my personal favorite of Peck's . The supporting cast is excellent - Badham is very convincing and Robert Duvall in one of his early performances ( I believe his screen debut , actually ) as Boo Radley is effective also . " To Kill a Mockingbird " is not the best film ever made and I do think some aspects of it have been overrated - I wouldn't say Atticus Finch is the best hero of all time nor would I say this is the most important film of the century , as some have named it . However , I do think it is a very well-made and effective film that manages to translate Harper Lee's story to the screen without losing its heart . It's a film that should be seen by everyone .
One of the best romantic-comedies of all time	This is one of my very favorite romantic comedies . It's kind of the height of the genre , all others graded against it . Hepburn and Grant are great together , and James Stewart is great comedic relief . ( As if the other two weren't enough . ) Many people here have said it's a " sophisticated comedy , " and that's true . It's for older audiences . It's not slapstick , it's more mature and adult than many other films of the genre . And it makes the sticky-sweet stuff like this year's " Must Like Dogs " look like complete garbage . If you like the actors you'll really like this film . If not , you may be a bit bored . I personally have always loved Grant and Stewart and Hepburn is one of my favorite actresses , so obviously I'm in good territory . This was one of the first films I ever saw , and it still makes me laugh . You can't say that about many other movies .
" My advice to you is to start drinking heavily . "	This raunchy comedy was a major success at the time of its release ( grossing well over $100 million in theaters alone ) and still maintains a strong cult following on home video . It is the gross-out boys-only flick that launched a new wave of rude-n'-crude teen comedies , as well as immortalizing John Belushi as one of America's most beloved comedic icons . It's the 1960s and the Delta fraternity is in trouble with the Faber College's Dean Wormer ( John Vernon ) yet again . The frat's crazy antics have gotten out of hand and the grades of its students have been steadily declining . Grabbing at the opportunity , Dean Wormer uses their poor grades and behavior as an excuse to kick them off the campus . However , the Deltas fight back ? and give it all they've got . " Animal House " is solely responsible for the surge of teen-styled comedies in the 1980s and ' 90s . There is no other film predating this , to speak of , which mixed sex , profanity , vulgarity , slapstick and rebellion all into one funny little bundle . " Animal House " truly is a revolutionary comedy , for better or worse . Yet in fact for all its offensive material , " Animal House " is joyously likable , infectious and agreeable . The writers ? Harold Ramis , Douglas Kenney and Chris Miller ? create a plethora of strong characters , which helps define and separate " Animal House " from many of its imitators ( and indeed compares it to the equally-enjoyable " American Pie " series , which ? like the " Animal " before it ? took the time to study and care for its characters , rather than completely exploit them for " humor " ? it's always harder to laugh at characters we don't care about , and much easier to laugh at those of whom we do ) . Director John Landis ( who would re-team with Belushi again in 1980 with " The Blues Brothers " ) not only understands his cast ( mainly Belushi ) but also his audience and paves a way for sibling genre entries through his realistic slapstick approach ( this is not crazy in the same way as Airplane , Naked Gun or Police Academy is ? in fact it's far more rooted in realism and only a few sequences really get out of hand and turn into classic dumb slapstick ) . John Belushi as the alcoholic Bluto Blutarsky ( on getting kicked out of college : " Seven years down the drain ! I might as well join the Peace Corps ! " ) remains the scene-stealer to this day , yet despite the film's close links with Belushi in general he is just a co-star , and when on-screen rarely speaks ( a fact played to the film's comedic advantage ? when Bluto gives his final rousing speech , it seems to mean something , even if ? well ? it doesn't . ) Belushi demanded the largest paycheck of all the actors ? including Donald Sutherland ? but is hardly the " star " of " Animal House . " Had he been , it may very well not have been as successful as it turned out to be ? not because Bluto is annoying , but because introducing him in smaller portions ? rather than focusing on him alone ? constructs a fall-back mechanism of sorts ; when the comedy is lagging too much , they bring in Bluto for support . Bluto thrives on fun and partying ? when he learns of a possible toga party , he begins a chant . One imagines he's so drunk and stoned he doesn't really understand much of what is going on . The film never identifies with him on a personal level . He's just sort of there . And we get the feeling perhaps he's only involved in the frat's antics because it's a blast ? does he really care about staying in college ? Or does he just want more free booze ? " Animal House " might not be the best comedy of all time , and I'm hardly going to start arguing that it is . For one thing , it can tend to be a bit inconsistent ? the humor is never continuously strong ; rather it comes in bursts . Technically , it's imperfect ? by a long shot . However , whoever said that the amount of laughter alone defines the greatness of a comedy ? Do we need it to be fine art ? " Animal House " doesn't only have its fair share of funny material and iconic screen moments , but is also incredibly entertaining , rowdy and cool ? the quintessential college film and certainly the sort of comedy any self-respecting bachelor would make sure he views at least two hundred times a year . ( Give or take . ) All together , now : " Toga , toga , toga ! "
A great movie for all ages	At first I had thought this would be another disney-like only kids movie . But I was very surprised , it entertained me ! The plot is a group of chickens are planning an escape from Tweedy's farm , where it is like a prison for chickens ( scenes taken from old movies , like the great escape , etc . ) but after many attempts , ( all untriumphant ) all but one chicken is ready to give up , Ginger . Then one day " Rocky the flying Chicken " , drops in from the sky , with a broken wing after making a landing on the chickens water barrel . Rocky then agrees he'll teach them to fly if they hide him from the circus ( who come looking for him ) . And they have to get out of there fast , because as they are practicing flying ( at many failed attempts ) , Mrs . Tweedy is making a pie machine , for a bigger profit off the farm . So the chickens have to be out fast , or they're pie ! I thought this movie was funny because it wasn't all kiddy jokes the whole way through . It's kind of like the Toy Story movies , great for all ages . Don't be turned down by the story , plot , or goofy looking characters , it's great movies like these , that get into my list of great family films , and that's hard to find nowadays . Toy Story did a good job , and Shrek was pretty good ( it had a couple things that were adult , esp . - swearing , and the princes " equipment " reference ( hint hint ) without that shrek would of been a perfect FAMILY movie , but it's still great as a regular movie , don't worry i'm not putting it down on being a bad movie . . anyway I think if you're looking for a great family night rent out the toy story movies , chicken run , and when it comes out maybe shrek ( as a family night ) but if you're looking for a non-family night , just a fun night , rent out all of those ! stars
Mitch Hedberg was hilarious ! R . I . P .	Mitch Hedberg unfortunately died recently of a drug overdose ( he had a weak heart ) , but his style of comedy was hilarious . Somewhere between Lenny Bruce and Steven Wright , Hedberg's jokes were apparently random stream-of-consciousness thoughts . " They say 7-Up is made with lemon and lime , but there is a lot more to it than that . " " I met the girl who worked behind the counter of my hotel . She gave mer her number . It's 0 . I tried to call her from here ; some other woman answered . I said , ' You sound older . ' " " My hotel doesn't have a thirteenth floor because of superstition - but come on , man , you people on the fourteenth floor know what floor you're really on . " This Comedy Central presentation from 1999 displays some of Hedberg's best ( albeit more watered-down and public TV-friendly ) jokes . Definitely make an effort to track it down or watch it some time when it comes on Comedy Central - and also look out for Steven Wright , another underrated genius of one-liners .
A stunningly realistic action game	Forget all the other games you've played , because this , is a real game . A game that puts you in a war to dominate above all other players . A game , to let you win trophys . A game , for winners . This Computer realistic action game reminds me of the game " aliens versus predator " , it's stunningly realistic , and you can almost taste victory when you're playing . The graphics are wonderful , in one particular level you are in space , and the earth rotates before you , and it's so real looking it's hard to explain . The plot of the game is , in the somewhat near future , violence has become illegal , but to provide the same excitement of fighting for people , the government provides a game show , where there are teams of players who compete in enclosed surroundings , to kill everyone and be the last player . There are different modes of play , one is deathmatch ( kill everyone and be the last standing ) Capture the flag ( basic capture the flag game ) and some more like that . It reminds me of the movie " Running Man " with Arnold Schwarzenegger , and I have enjoyed this game so far , very much . Give it a try , and I promise you won't be let down . stars ( )
Hilarious !	Conan O'Brien is the greatest late show host out there right now and he's much funnier than Leno and Letterman . This special 10th anniversary program takes a look at his career on air and reveals some very funny interviews , sketches and so on and so forth - - it's got some star cameos as well as new material that celebrates the anniversary of " The Late Show . " " The 10th Anniversary " program is really funny and I'd recommend it for anyone who's a fan of Conan or the " Late Show . " Conan will be taking over for Leno in 2008 , and I can't wait !
An excellent collection	" Welcome to the Videos " is an excellent collection of Guns N ' Roses ' music videos - " Welcome to the Jungle , " " Sweet Child O ' Mine , " " Dead Horse , " " November Rain , " " Yesterdays , " " Don't Cry , " " Patience , " etc . If you're a fan of Gn'R then this is a must-buy and if you're just getting into their work then you should still check it out . Some of the videos are very good - " November Rain " won the award for Best Cinematography in a music video , " Sweet Child " is great and " Yesterdays " feels very nostalgic as you can tell from the lyrics and style that the band knew they were about to break apart and it was a sort of final farewell . All in all this is a must-buy and my only wish is that the DVD would have contained commentaries .
A Darn Good Futuristic Thriller . . . Much Better Than " Minority Report " . . .	Total RecallArnold Schwarzenegger stars in an adaption of Philip K . Dick's short story ' We'll Remember It For You Wholesale ' in the Hollywood makeover ' Total Recall . ' And a darn good makeover it is . Schwarzenegger plays Douglas Quaid , who is having a serious identity crisis . He lives in the future . In the future , people have the ability to live on Mars . Well , guess who wants to go to Mars ? Unfortunately , Douglas ' wife ( Sharon Stone ) is not too happy about that idea , and wants to stay on Earth . So , what's a guy to do if his wife doesn't want to move ? Get a memory implant , of course ! Using the latest technology , memories can be implanted in your brain in a matter of moments . You choose the destination , identity ( spy , civilian , etc . ) and Total Rekall ( yes , Total Rekall ) will install it for you . Warned by his friends not to get the implant , Quaid does so anyway . But something goes terribly wrong . Soon , his wife , friends and co-workers are all trying to kill him . but why ? The answer may kill him . Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfect for the role of Quaid . People can argue all they want about how bad an actor he is , but you can't say that after seeing this movie . He pulls the film's acting and stunts off with ease , all the while spitting out his catchy one-liners ( ' Consider this a divorce ! ' ) . Sharon Stone is probably at her best here , seeing that her career went mainly down-the-drain from here on ( okay , she won - or was nominated - for an Oscar for ' Casino . ' This movie made her ) . Paul Verhoven directs this film , and there are no arguments that this is his finest work - by far . He was the director who went on to make such ' critically acclaimed ' ( guffaw ) films such as ' Showgirls ' and ' Hollow Man . ' His only other film that was remotely good was ' Basic Instinct , ' but this is still ten times better ( Sharon Stone would not have starred in that film if not for ' Total Recall ' - Verhoven said so himself . ) . The special effects in this movie are excellent ; supposedly , they spent millions and millions on the fake Mars sets , and I bet they're glad it paid off . I recently bought the ' Total Recall ' Limited Edition DVD with a newly remastered digital makeover , Dolby Digital 5 . 1 , behind-the-scenes documentary ( s ) , a commentary by Verhoven and Schwarzenegger , and much , much more . If you can find one now ( it was limited edition so it might be off the market , now ) I would recommend picking a copy up . It was fourteen dollars , and it definitely packed a punch for that much ( no , I'm not a salesman ! J ) ' Total Recall ' stands as Arnold's most ' thinkative ' film and best conspiracy-type thriller . In fact , it is one of the best sci-fi / futuristic thrillers ever . Many people do not realize that ' Minority Report ' with Tom Cruise is actually a sequel to this film , and Verhoven and Schwarzenegger had talked about making it for a long time , but now , it looks like the deal is off . There is still a sequel in talks , however , not based on a story by Dick . Supposedly , the company ( Miramax , was it ? ) wants Arnold , Stone and Verhoven back . Oh well . I , for one , am looking forward to it ( though I don't understand how Stone is coming back . prequel ? ) Anyway , I'm getting off the subject . ' Total Recall ' is a good movie , and a darn good one at that . It provides everything we want - and more - in a movie . stars - maybe I'm overrating it . However , I feel it deserves that many stars . John Ulmer
A very funny insight into the so-called " over-the-counter culture "	A very funny insight into the so-called " over-the-counter culture , " Clerks director Kevin Smith would later find himself falling victim to the frequent one-hit wonder syndrome ? always standing in the shadow of this picture , never being able to surpass nor live up to it . The closest he would come would be with Dogma and Chasing Amy , both highly recommendable films , but even then , they both lacked the poignancy of Clerks , and the quiet understanding reverberating from the audience . The movie isn't perfect . It's a bit rough around the edges . I won't lie and claim that Kevin Smith is a great director . Similar to Tarantino , he bases his own career on those of other ( better ) directors ? i . e . he is a major film aficionado and thrives on cinema . Unlike Tarantino , however , Smith often just comes across as a regular guy who picked up a camera and filmed some of his buddies cracking jokes in an empty convenience store . Both directors constantly reference their idols ? for Smith it is John Hughes ? however in my opinion it's Tarantino who really has the workings of a " great director " whereas there is nothing particularly notable about Smith's actual direction . His strength lies in his writing . Clerks is full of wonderful dialog , and Smith pauses long enough to let his characters expand through verbal actions as opposed to the more brash physicality inherent in most comedies . Clerks has a few good sight gags but most of the major laughs derive from clever word plays or discussions ? such as the construction workers of the Death Star in Star Wars and whether or not they were innocent or part of the Dark Side . It takes a kind of uncommon genius to be able to evoke laughter from such material . ( Or , perhaps , just a really bored movie buff who's recording his own past conversations with friends onto paper . ) The film follows the misadventures of its protagonist , Dante ( Brian O'Halloran , whose character is a reference to the classical literature Dante's Inferno ) , whom is called into work at a local New Jersey gas station convenience store on his day off . Abandoning his girlfriend and plans for the weekend , Dante endures annoying customers and the next-door video clerk , Randall , who never seems to do any work at all and just lounges around discussing stupid topics with Dante , who most of the time seems utterly uninterested . The acting isn't great . The direction , as aforementioned , isn't worth noting for any particular reason . It's the conversations that are so funny ? and the film's casual , observant attitude . Smith manages to take a rather ? let's face it ? boring topic and turns it into a freakishly funny cult comedy ( would it be suitable to name it a classic ? ) . This is not a flawless picture , but then again none really are .
Entertainment just doesn't come any bigger than this . ( SOME SPOILERS ENCLOSED ! )	' Jurassic Park ' - 1993 - PG-13 - ' Jurassic Park ' plays with a very interesting and compelling idea : what if dinosaurs could be genetically created ? Brought back to life ? Based on the best-selling novel of the same name by Michael Crichton comes a film starring Sam Neil as Dr . Alan Grant , a world-renowned paleontologist ; Laura Dern as Ellie Sattler , his fellow paleontologist and girlfriend ; and Richard Attenburough as John Hammond , a man with quite a proposition . John Hammond flies to Dr . Grant's paleontology site and asks him to come out to his new theme park to test it out with some others , including Ellie Sattler . After much hesitation , Grant agrees to check out the park ( after Hammond gives him some cash for his paleontology fund ) . So , Grant and Sattler fly out to ' Jurassic Park , ' not really sure of what it is or what is in it , per say ( robots , puppets ? ) . And then they find out the startling truth . John Hammond has cloned dinosaurs . How ? Well , think of it this way : ' Millions ' of years ago ( supposedly ) , dinosaurs lived . I don't believe they lived millions or billions of years ago , but that's saved for different discussion . Anyway , back then , there were obviously mosquitoes around , right ? They sucked dinosaur blood , right ? Well , they also got stuck in tree sap and were preserved for all those years , right ? You didn't know that ? Well , I didn't know that , either , but the film sure is convincing . Anywho , Hammond and his team take some little gadgets and suck the dinosaur blood out of preserved mosquitoes . Then , using frog genes , they fill in any missing areas in the ' dino DNA . ' Of course , this astounds Grant , who has studied dinosaurs his whole life , and will now be able to see them alive . However , he isn't the only one who gets to . Hammond has to get his theme park approved so he can open it to public . Therefore , he must bring in a few other higher-ups to approve the site , including Dr . Ian Malcolm ( Jeff Goldblum ) , an eccentric theorist known for his famous ' chaos theory ' ; his two grandchildren ; and a lawyer , of course . And then there are the guys who run the park , including Arnold ( Samuel L . Jackson ) and a disgustingly obese man named Nedry ( Wayne Knight ) , whom would embarrass even Fat B$s & a % d ; these two men are in the control center monitoring everything throughout the park . But then something goes horribly wrong , and all the dinosaurs in the park are released , including the incredibly mighty and amazing tyrannosaurus rex . First of all , ' Jurassic Park ' is an astounding film . I must make that point . I remember reading the book when it came out , and the film captures every piece of the book as I imagined it . Part of what makes the film so great is that they didn't skimp on the visual effects , and never let anything stupid slide through . Even the plot , though it may be full of holes , was presented excellently and thoroughly , showing us how the dinos are created . Then , the actors : Sam Neil fit Alan Grant like a glove . Laura Dern , though she's nothing special , pulled off Ellie Sattler well ; and then there's Jeff Goldblum , whom everyone hates . Well , I must say that people wouldn't hate him as much if they read the book , because he is just like the character he plays . I don't like Jeff Goldblum , but I'll give him his deserved credit for the role of Ian Malcolm , because he really pulled it off . Director Steven Spielberg was the perfect choice for this movie . Many people said they were disappointed because they showed the tyrannosaurus in the beginning of the film , and shouldn't have shown it ; they expected Spielberg's accidental technique that he used in ' Jaws . ' However , I don't consider the thirty-five minute point of the film the beginning . When Spielberg made ' Jaws , ' the shark robot didn't work right , and that is why the film never showed it until the end . Otherwise , the film would have shown the shark in the beginning . Everyone gives Steven Spielberg credit for something he didn't intend , when I think ' Jurassic Park ' is just as good as ' Jaws ' ( well , almost as good ) , and Spielberg is put down constantly just because he didn't wait until the end to show the t-rex . I , personally , am glad they showed it at the point they did . I DID want to see the tyrannosaurus . The CGI effects in this film are completely ahead of their time . After viewing the latest installment in the series , I realized that the visual effects in it are barely any better than the first film ; that's saying a lot . Basically , that means that in the ten years since its release , ' Jurassic Park ' is still a competitor for the latest advances in computer graphics . And as for the other aspects of the movie . The score by John Williams is nothing short of moving ; he perfectly blends excitement and surprises into music . brilliant . And Stan Winston's creature effects are nothing to laugh at - the guy seamlessly blends puppets to fit in with the CGI . In too many films , it is completely obvious when the creature of a movie is CGI versus a puppet . However , in ' Jurassic Park , ' Winston and the special effects people work together correctly for a change , making us say , ' Is that a puppet or CGI ? ' All in all , ' Jurassic Park ' is nowhere near as good as the novel , surprisingly , but it is one of the most well known films to come out of the nineties . It is constantly and utterly spoofed , has spawned two less successful sequels ( though I did like the third ) , and is absolutely amazing , entertaining and mind-boggling . It is true to the novel , while entirely different in its own special way . I cannot tell you how much I enjoyed this film . I want to write more about the movie , but I have almost reached my one thousand words maximum . Bottom line : Entertainment just doesn't come any bigger than this . stars
The Shrek of the Eighties	THE PRINCESS BRIDE ( 1987 ) ( STARS ) ( slight plot spoilers ) DIRECTED by ROB REINER STARRING : CARY ELWES ROBIN WRIGHT CHRIS SARANDON CHRISTOPHER GUEST MANDY PATINKIN WALLACE SHAWN PETER FALK CAROL KANE FRED SAVAGE ANDRE THE GIANT and BILLY CRYSTALNotice any names above ? If not , I don't know where you're coming from . Some of the most famous acting talents came together to form THE PRINCESS BRIDE , and 1 great director . Rob Reiner directs this all-star cast , in you not-so-average fairytale adventure . Filled with swashbuckling sword fights , tremendous thrills , incredible romance , excellent actors and cameos , a very original comedic look at fairytales , and so much more , THE PRINCESS BRIDE is the SHREK of the eighties . The acting itself is flawless . Robin Wright plays Buttercup who falls in love with her servant boy Westley ( Cary Elwes ) . After he sets off to sea to find fortunes , she is told the dread pirate Robinson killed him . She immediately becomes a recluse , and mutters the words , ' I will never love again ? ' Some years later , she is engaged to Prince Humperdink , who is marrying her just to kill her and blame it on a distant land - - - the result of which starting a war . Unaware of his plans , a trio comprised of a short man ( Wallace Shawn ) , a revenge sought swordsman ( Mandy Patinkin ) and an 8-foot giant ( Andre the Giant ) set out to do THE SAME thing , by kidnapping her , killing her , and placing her on the distant land . In this process , the dread pirate Robinson , who turns out to be none other than her long lost servant boy , rescues her . Now they have the Prince chasing them , and the plot only continues to grow as they go through the dreaded fire swamp , and are caught up with by the Prince , who takes the servant to be tortured , eventually being rescued by the giant and the swordsman of the trio , of whom want to help him save the Princess Buttercup before it's too late . The Princess Bride is wonderfully acted , filmed , and has just a good fantasy feel to it . Like I said before , it's the SHREK of the eighties . After seeing this film , you just know it's destined to become a classic , of which it has become . Just the sheer original genius of this film earns it 4 stars , much less the rest of the film . starsJOHN ULMER
German expressionism reaches a peak	" Cabinet of Dr . Caligari " is arguably the most popular and renowned example of German expressionism ; it outweighs " Nosferatu " as the most prominent , well-known and influential film of its kind and its translation into the American audience has been greeted warmly , to say the least . I'm not so sure if , as a motion picture , it could really be graded against others . This is a very early movie and as such it's not altogether coherent and doesn't feature a brilliant plot , to say the least . Of course technically speaking it is inferior to some other movies made nowadays ( as others on IMDb have been pointing out in their reviews ) but so what ! The quality of the craftmanship on the awkward sets and Wiene's direction more than compensate for its story's flaws . Yes , this is a very dated film in the sense that I don't think any teenaged audiences would be able to sit through it , and even many adults would be put off by it . It's definitely for film buffs , so I don't advise you to start playing it at your next get-together . However , if you are enthusiastic about film , I'm sure you'll find plenty of things to appreciate and even cherish here , and there's simply no arguing that the craft of the product is superb , rich and well-detailed - - forget CGI , this is true film-making .
A classic with a few minor flaws .	Yep , all you " Pulp Fiction " junkies can rush out to the DVD stores - this is one of Quentin Tarantino's " top three " favorite films , along with " Taxi Driver " and " Blow Out . " Slightly irreverent top favorites , I'd say , except for " Driver . " This was basically loosely remade by John Carpenter in 1976 with ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 , which was much faster-moving and an excellent film , but this one is also rather terrific , if slower . ( Which , in this case , is a good thing . ) A sheriff in a small town in southwest Texas must keep custody of a murderer whose brother is trying to help him escape . After a friend is killed trying to muster support for him , he and his deputies - a disgraced drunk and a cantankerous old cripple - must find a way to hold out against the rancher's hired guns until the marshal arrives . In the meantime , matters are complicated by the presence of a young gunslinger - and a mysterious beauty who just came in on the last stagecoach . I wouldn't say this is one of THE favorite films of mine but it is a great film that set the course for many to follow - expertly directed by Hawks and all-around an influential , enjoyable semi-masterpiece .
Truffaut's autobiographical masterpiece	As Fellini's " 8 " was a reflection of his own torment as a director , " The 400 Blows " was Francois Truffaut's exorcism of personal demons . Antoine Doinel is allegedly Truffaut's own projection of himself at an early age , and this movie was a very important project for the director as an adult . Jean-Pierre Léaud plays Antoine remarkably well , as a thoughtful but rebellious Parisian student who skips school and goes to the movies with his friends . His mother ( Claire Maurier ) shows no interest in the boy , nor does his father . He retreats home every day sullenly and sits on his bed , daydreaming . Beautifully filmed and still poignant after all these years , Truffaut's masterpiece is a moving and engaging study of youth that continues to retain its significance today . Definitely worth seeing , perhaps even worth buying if you're a film buff . The Criterion Collection DVD is excellent and provides a very insightful glimpse into both the movie and Truffaut .
' 'Raiders of the Lost Ark ' achieves its goal of being not only a great popcorn flick , but also a great flick in all sense of the word . It delivers the goods in more than one way . . . "	" Raiders of the Lost Ark " is just the kind of movie that serves its purpose : it is entertaining , thoroughly enjoyable with great actors ; and most of all , just plain fun . Harrison Ford plays Dr . " Indiana " Jones , a knowledgeable professor by day , famed archeologist by night ( sorta ) . After he loses the glasses and suit at night ( or when his darker , more adventurous side is needed ) , and equips himself with a whip and a hat , he becomes the most adventurous history-powered character in . well . history . This time around ( well , the first time for the audience ) , Jones is hired by the American government to find a mysterious , Biblical artifact named " The Ark of the Covenant , " which , anyone who has gone to Bible school should know , is a very powerful weapon that only priests could touch without dying as history tells . Well , guess what ? Some Nazis are hoping to find it before Jones and they want to - wait for it - use it as a weapon . This cannot happen . So Indy gears up and ships out to get them thar ' Nazis ( I love talking in hick language during plot summaries ! ) along with an old flare , Marion Ravenwood ( Karen Allen ) who has in her possession a very important medallion . " Raiders of the Lost Ark " achieves its goal of being not only a great popcorn flick , but also a great flick in all sense of the word . It delivers the goods in more than one way . Harrison Ford is completely believable as Indy , a guy who is not as gung-ho as the stereotypical heroes of the average adventure-dramas . We feel that he is at many times stressed with his missions but carries them out with a smug smirk anyway , just because he is Indy , and that's what he does . Karen Allen provides just enough umph and sassiness to the film to keep the plot and character progression moving , as well as to add a few gray hairs to Indy's head . Steven Spielberg directs this film excellently with help from writer / co-producer George " Star Wars " Lucas and Philip " The Right Stuff " Kaufman . The cinematography is beautiful , and the camerawork brings out the emotions in the characters in both visual and symbolic ways . Essentially , " Raiders . . . " has established itself as a film franchise in of itself over the years , spawning two ( no , wait , an upcoming three ) sequels since its release in 1981 . When it came out it was a huge hit , and now it is marked in history books , as well as having been branded in the culture of not only America , but also the whole world . " Raiders of the Lost Ark " is without a doubt one of the best adventure movies ever , that set the path for many films we see today . If you have not seen this movie yet , then go out right now and rent it . I mean it . Right now . stars
" I feel the need . The need for speeeeeeed ! " One of the greatest action films of all time . Who'd'a thought it ?	You're going to say one thing after watching " Speed , " and that will be " Whoa . " This is an action film as exhausting as " Die Hard " and as exhilarating as the " Terminator " movies . It moves with the pacing of a John McTiernan picture and it has the perfection of a James Cameron action film . Its director , Jan De Bont , has worked on such films as " Die Hard " and " The Hunt for Red October , " so it's no surprise that he bears a resemblance behind the camera to McTiernan . The film is blunt , fast-paced and extremely exciting . It stars Keanu Reeves as Jack Traven , a Los Angeles bomb squad member as cool as he is decisive . Jack has been called into duty , along with his partner and friend , Harry ( Jeff Daniels ) , to stop a madman bomber ( Dennis Hopper ) , who has taken control of an elevator and will drop it to the ground unless his demand of three million dollars is met . Jack takes his chances and ends up saving the day , but not before Harry is taken hostage and survives with a bullet shot . Howard Payne ( Hopper ) is dead , blown to pieces by his own bomb , and so they all go have a drink and party till the moon goes down and the sun rises up . You get the idea . But Payne didn't really die , and now he's very mad at a certain somebody who foiled his last plan . He's spent a lifetime being treated as dirt , and he has convinced himself that he deserves the $3 million more than anybody else . Jack begs to differ , but he has no time to argue when Payne reappears and triggers a downtown bus with a bomb . The catch ? If the bus accelerates past 50 M . P . H . and then drops below that point as before . . . kaboom . > Jack manages to board the bus , but not before it reaches 50 , and not before the bus driver gets shot by a criminal on the bus and Annie ( Sandra Bullock ) has to play driver for the rest of the day . The problem is , downtown LA during rush hour is not exactly open to a large bus , so with the help of the LAPD , the bus is driven to a deserted stretch of highway , where they have a limited amount of time to either disarm the bus or pay up the sum of money to Payne . Meanwhile , Howard Payne is monitoring everything from his position in an apartment in LA , where he has a gadget wired up to the security camera in the bus , so that he can watch everything that's happening . If anyone tries to get off the bus , or if anyone tries to be a hero , he presses a little red button and . kaboom . Only this time , he's determined not to fail . This is a ludicrously and ridiculously delicious plot . I'm surprised it hasn't been done already . Well , actually , it sorta has . Yes , this film bears an uncanny resemblance to " Die Hard , " only on a bus , but you know what ? It's just about as good . It's exciting , humorous , and absolutely fun from start to finish . It never stops to go into boring conversations back at the FBI headquarters that so many action films do to try and make them look smarter . It never lets up for a moment once it starts . All good action films have comedic relief , and " Speed " - apart from occasional witty remarks between Sandra Bullock and Keanu Reeves and / or Dennis Hopper - has Alan Ruck and Jeff Daniels . You may remember Ruck as Cameron Frye in John Hughes ' " Ferris Bueller's Day Off " ( 1986 ) , and you may remember him from the television show " Spin City , " and here he plays a tourist who isn't really able to understand the situation they're in on the bus . " The airport ? " he says as the bus swerves down a runway . " I've already been here . " Daniels is one of cinema's great character actors with dry subtle humor . He can do dramatics ( " Gettysburg " ) , he can do comedy ( " Dumb and Dumber " ) , and he can now do action . It takes an odd sort of acting genius to subtly upstage Jim Carrey , but he did just that in " Dumb and Dumber " by making a subtle goofball out of his character , Harry Dunne . Here he does the same with the sort of bleak sarcastic quips he was born to say . Jan De Bont knows how to film action . Just when you think everything's going to slow down after the bus finally stops , we realize it's just the beginning . Payne kidnaps Annie , takes her to a subway train , and tries to run away with her to lure Jack . It works . And in the climatic gripper , Jack and Payne fight on the top of a speeding subway train . It was done in " Mission : Impossible " a small number of years later , but this came first . And the film is better . Can Keanu Reeves act ? Hardly . He does his usual " Whoa " routine here , where his lines primarily consist of long pauses and , " Huh ? " " What ? " " Whoa , " " Wow , " " k me , " " Bogus , " and so on . But an action film doesn't need a good actor , and Reeves fits the part . It was his breakthrough action role - without it , he never would have appeared in " The Matrix . " " Speed " is one of the great action films . It bears similarities to " Die Hard , " " Lethal Weapon , " " RoboCop , " " Total Recall , " " The Terminator " ( 1 and 2 ) , " Predator , " and all those other hard-punching action films with a fast pace and a real kick ( it doesn't bear resemblance to all of the films as much as the raw force behind them ) . You know the kind of hard action flicks I mean - the kind that make you feel beaten up by the time it's all over . The kinds that make you leave the theater bruised and swollen . You're going to be going 50 miles per hour watching " Speed , " and in this case , that's a good - no , great - thing . stars .
An emotional heart tugger , even tugged me a bit ( some spoilers attached )	NOTE : ( / 04 ) - - this was one of the first reviews I published on IMDb . Please excuse the spelling mistakes and so on . I didn't want to delete it , just because of nostalgic purposes - however I have since re-written a full-length review which can be read at http www rottentomatoes com author 6769 - - - - First , let me say I'm more of an action or comedy guy . So it's a little hard to be tugged by a MOVIE ( not reality ) when something sad happens . But even this , at the end tugged me , yet also made me happy at the same time . I've never had the same experience before . I've only had a little tug by the perfect storm , but I wasn't happy at the same time . . it's weird , but when you watch the movie you'll see what I mean . ( some minor spoilers ) The plot is a fed ex employee played by Tom Hanks , has everything going well in his life . right before he boards a plane to go on a business trip for fed ex , he gives an engagement ring to his girlfriend ( Helen Hunt ) , so after he gets back , you get the feeling she'll probably say yes . The plane he's on get's offline , and hits a storm , and they end up crashing . After surviving a very realistic crash , he awakens on a deserted island . Being the business man that he is though , he walks around and pickes up the fed ex packages that washed ashore ( there are only a few ) . Later in the movie he opens them , and uses a pair of ice skates to open coconuts , a dress I think to use as mocasins , and Wilson the volleyball as a friend . It's a very realistic movie , of what would happen to you and your life being on an island for four years , and how much your life would of changed back home . And for those who have seen this movie , the Wilson's death scene , for some reason makes you sad , because you realize at that point , that that is what kept him going the whole time . Or else he would of gone insane . You realize , what it would be like to be with some ball / 365 four years , and then have it just float away . It's like losing a family member . I think anyone who's seen this movie can admit that . I really enjoyed this movie and it's definitely in my top 50 favorite movies ( although it would be about half way , no farther ) I for some reason just really like this movie . I have a poster in my room , next to terminator and 6th day posters . . . see how weird it is ? This movie just grows on you . I give it stars , for being a very realistic , truthful movie .
As Good As They Get !	" How do you write women so well ? " asks a flattered young lady after reading one of the man's sappy romantic paperback novels and recognizing his face on the street . He turns around , looks at her and says , " I think of a man , and I take away reason and accountability . " The secret of " As Good As It Gets " is its unconventional , and often times irreverent , view of the entire romance scene . It is centered solely on two people , Melvin ( Jack Nicholson ) and Carol ( Helen Hunt ) . Melvin writes those corny romance novels you always manage to find tucked in between the fiction and non-fiction area of your local bookstore . You know , the kind that little old ladies like to read through at an incredible speed in an ill-fated hope to re-live moments of their past . Melvin is a bit like Paul Sheldon , from Rob Reiner's " Misery , " although I'm sure if he had been found by a murderous fan he would have been killed early on - - he's incredibly blunt and annoying . He probably would have told Annie Wilkes what he thought of her from the get-go , not hesitating any more than he has to . Melvin has obsessive-compulsive disorder , which basically means he goes through strange routines every time he does something , whether it means locking a door twice or not stepping on the cracks of a sidewalk ( we all do that , sometimes ) . I recently read a new Steve Martin novella about a man with obsessive-compulsive disorder , and it reminded me very much of " As Good As It Gets " and the Melvin character . Melvin is such a wacko that he pushes his gay neighbor's dog down the laundry chute after he finds it wandering around the hallway . The gay man is played by Greg Kinnear . His name is Simon , and he has a small little dog he likes to call " precious . " Simon is an artist , but when a band of kids wreck his apartment and beat him up , he is left with the realization that he hasn't enough money to keep his flat , and his boyfriend ( Cuba Gooding , Jr . ) may break up with him . But the biggest worry of all is . . . what to do with his precious ? Frank , played by Gooding Jr . , decides to give the dog to Melvin - - who refuses at first but is left without any option but to obey . He soon achieves a certain subtle love for the beast , and when Simon has healed and comes back for the dog , it doesn't even want to leave . It even starts to develop nasty habits - - like avoiding cracks in the sidewalk . Meanwhile , a troubled single mother and a part-time waitress , Carol is constantly nagged by Melvin . Only she can deliver him food . Only she can take his order . Only she can kick him out of the restaurant . Mistaking this for some sort of sexual craving , she tells Melvin flat-out that she will never sleep with him . He doesn't seem to care . That had never even crossed his mind . The fact is that Melvin is insufferably lonely . He likes to act as though he likes to be lonely , but the truth is that his loneliness is something he loathes . He would love to reach out and gain some friends - - but he's too proud to humble himself in such a way . We all know people like Melvin - - he just takes himself to a new extreme . Melvin is surely one of the great screen characters of all time , ranking up there with Raymond " Rain Man " Babbitt and Forrest Gump as some of the most unique and likable inventions to ever grace the big screen . Nicholson presents his character in an especially effective way - - at first he seems gruff , then he seems strange , then his soft side is revealed , and he slowly becomes the likable mean guy who lives upstairs and likes to try and kill neighbors ' dogs . Hunt won the Oscar for her work in " As Good As It Gets , " but it was truly Nicholson who deserved it . Regardless of all this , " As Good As It Gets " still stands alone as one of the cleverest romantic comedies of all time , and certainly one that both sexes can agree on . The film features some of the most memorable lines ever written on paper , the majority of them all coming from the lips of Melvin Udall , perfectly spoken by a typical gruff Jack Nicholson . They all come off as utterly hilarious and convincing . ( Nicholson : " How old are you ? If I would guess by your eyes , I'd say you're fifty . " Hunt : " If I went by your eyes I'd say you were kind . " ) This is the type of new-age romantic comedy that rivals the greatness of " When Harry Met Sally " or " Sleepless in Seattle . " It's founded in its characters , their lives , their interaction , and how they learn to overcome their own personal obstacles and moral obligations . This film carries all the Autumn-time sweetness and cleverness of a Rob Reiner comedy , and all the lightness of a Frank Capra movie . It's a delightful blend of comedy and romance , and the type of redefining genre motion picture that " When Harry Met Sally " was eight years prior . What a perfect , delightful movie . stars . - John Ulmer
One of the funniest shows on television	" Malcolm in the Middle " may have lost a bit of steam recently , but some of the earlier episodes are absolutely , side-splittingly hilarious . Although Malcolm ( Frankie Muniz ) may be the titular character , it is really Bryan Cranston's characterization of the father figure , Hal , that makes the show so fun to watch . Cranston turns Hal into a boy at heart ( as all fathers are ) - only , like everything else with the show , extends it into a complete satire and goes completely wacky . This show , for lack of a better word , is crazy . It's absurd . And it couldn't be any better . The wild antics and over-the-top gags are similar to a cartoon , and even the fast-cut editing between scenes ( with the " whoosing " sound ) is reminiscent of an animated program . Like " The Simpsons , " " Malcolm " manages to successfully interweave everyday family / social topics into silly plots involving all types of nonsensical stuff . Some of the physical gags are absolutely hilarious - the episode with Hal running out of the supermarket , a parody of " Raiders of the Lost Ark , " is gut-busting - but at its heart this really is a tender and witty comedy that manages to be effective on more than one level . The rest of the cast are great too . It really " feels " like a genuine family . They bicker , they complain , they whine and moan and fight - this is America today . If we were to go back fifty years in a time capsule and present this to the " I Love Lucy " crowds , they'd be shocked .
A rarity in cinema these days - an intellectually and emotionally stimulating action film ( with a few flaws )	" Children of Men " would be easy to describe as a futuristic thriller about the last pregnant woman on earth and how a reluctant alcoholic with a troubled past makes it his mission to transport her to safety in a world gone mad . But that would make it sound fairly tired and routine . It would be easier , perhaps , to call it a chase film , a war film , a buddy film , a variation on Wells , a political commentary , a satire , and even ? to some degree ? a comedy . The truth is , it's all of the above , and it manages to combine all these different aspects into a provocative whole . The year is 2027 . Women are infertile due to pollution , gamma rays , or something to that effect . No one really knows for sure . But the world is a wasteland of disease and pestilence ? England appears to be the only country on earth still thriving , its citizens torn apart by political ideologists revolting against the increasingly fascist government by using terrorism tactics , while those in power isolate the people of the country and have them shipped away to enclosed camps where they live like animals ( World War II , anyone ? ) . The rest you probably know from the marketing campaign already : the first pregnant woman in decades is discovered , Theo ( Clive Owen ) ? an ex-political activist ? decides to help transport her to safety , etc . , while a group of ruthless mercenaries hunt them down to use the baby for their own political leverage . Owen is an impressive leading man here . He brings to life one of cinema's most recurring characters : the cynical , reluctant anti-hero . But Owen brings Theo to life and gives him a personality ? something not many actors do when approaching these types of characters . Theo's progression throughout the movie is believable and moving . The film was helmed by Alfonso Cuarón , a director of great vision and ambition . Here he captures the grime and grunge of a truly desperate and depleted land ? the sad thing is , it doesn't look so terribly far away . " Blade Runner " and " 1984 " were always distant and had a certain " what-if ? " element ? but " Children of Men's " futuristic landscape doesn't really look all that far away . Make no mistake , the film is very much a politically driven vehicle ? Cuarón isn't exactly subtle in his use of references to current government . ( A nametag with the word " Bush " can be seen accompanied by bloodstains and bullet holes alongside it . ) We are told that the year 2003 was the beginning of the end , and what is perhaps most horrifying about " Children of Men " is that by today's standards it isn't such a fantastical adventure ? it's eerily plausible . But for all its power and competence , " Children of Men " is not a perfect movie . The screenplay , written by Cuarón and more than a handful of writers ( based on a novel by P . D . James ) , is serviceable but contains some lapses in logic ( which , if I were to divulge into , would no doubt spoil many of the film's surprises ) . The movie is not too long , but certain scenes could have been edited to better effect early on . The ending , however , is such a visceral and hard-hitting experience that it almost makes you forget the few flaws of the film . Cuarón executes one of the most impressive single-take action sequences in all of cinema ? rivaling the opening D-Day invasion segment in Spielberg's " Saving Private Ryan " in terms of realism ( blood spatter stains the camera lens as the audience is put into the heart of an intense combat scene ) . In fact , " Children of Men " has the most realistic violence I've seen in any film from its genre ? an important element of the movie that makes the proceedings all the more effective and gut-wrenching . Every gunshot , every death , and every dying scream resonates with an importance that few other " violent " movies are capable of carrying . " Children of Men " is a breathtaking cinematic experience ? exactly what a good film should be . It makes you think while delivering an ample dose of entertainment . It is not by any means a flawless film , but it is one that ? as you leave the theater ? will have you contemplating everything you just saw , evoking thought and discussion . And the ability to be moved physically , emotionally , and intellectually by a film ? That's a true rarity these days .
An excellent family entertainment achievement , with the keyword family , not just kids .	The smash hit 1995 film Jumanji - based on the children's book - is a great family film . The plot of the story involves a young boy named Alan Parrish who in the 1960's finds a supernatural board game , that was buried underground in the 1800's . Alan is instantly drawn into playing the game , and Sarah-a girl who lives close to him - also joins in the game . After the powers of the game transport young Alan into the jungles of the board game , no one believes Sarah's story of what happened , and everyone suspects foul play . Now in 1995 , a girl named Judy ( Kirsten Dunst ) and her younger brother Peter have been drawn into the game after finding it in the attic of the old Parrish house . When they play however , Alan ( Robin Williams ) is released from the jungle accidentally when one of the kids rolls a certain number on the dice . Now , with the powers and creatures of Jumanji released , they must finish the game . But to do so , they must find Sarah ( Bonnie Hunt ) , because now it is her turn to roll the dice . After finding her , they must hurry before the town they live in is destroyed and before they all die ! Jumanji is great family film , packed with - at the time - great graphics ( that now look like a computer game ) . While some hate this film for being too terrifying for young children , people have forgotten what the rating PG means-PARENTAL GUIDANCE-NOT all ages . So with this in mind guidance is suggested for scary scenes , but I think any child over 3 can enjoy this film . It has no gore or attacks really . Sure , there're some mildly scary scenes , but look at Harry Potter ? I think more kids I heard of thought that was scary than Jumanji . Another great thing about Jumanji , is that like Shrek and such films , adults can enjoy it as well . It's not one of those films where you have to suffer through , like many movies coming out today . I think movies like Jumanji are the best of their kind . The acting was great , and Robin Williams is perfect for the role of Alan Parrish , and Bonnie Hunt and him had good chemistry . Kirsten Dunst in this film was further shaping her acting career , to appear in such films now like ' Spider-Man ' and the teen movie ' Bring It On . ' I honestly forget the name of the kid who plays Judy's brother Peter , but he was okay . I don't think he was great though . Okay , but not great . I doubt as he gets older he'll get a film career much past his teen years . So if you want some good , family fun seeing a movie , rent Jumanji . And remember , PG = Parental Guidance , not All Ages , so do use discretion is your kids don't like mild terror , but I doubt you'll have to , especially on video ( I'll admit the theater added some more terror ) . It's not as terrifying as Ebert stated in his review . With all the movies he's seen , I think he's way off mark . He compared Jumanji to being as suitable as Jaws was for children , but big news Ebert , Jaws WAS rated PG . Anyway , I hate when people think of Jumanji as a ' should be PG-13 ' because it's not . It's great family fun with loads of laughs , jungle animals and creatures , and just plain hilariousness ! stars . I loved Jumanji , and I DEFINITELY recommend it to families .
It still holds up today !	Adam Pontipee ( Howard Keel ) lives with his six brothers in a cabin in a remote area of the woods . He goes to town one day and convinces a girl named Milly ( Jane Powell ) to marry him . They return to the cabin , where she suddenly realizes he has six brothers . Milly tries to teach them some manners after her initial shock , but they are not entirely keen to change their ways . They are , however , anxious to get wives of their own . After Adam reads about Roman capturing of Sabine women , he hatches a plan for his brothers - kidnap whoever they want to marry and bring them back to the cabin . " Seven Bridges for Seven Brothers " is , today , somewhat of a classic ; Stanley Donen adapts the screenplay by Albert Hackett , Frances Goodrich and Dorothy Kingsley ; their combined efforts are superb . I have grown up on this film and was surprised at the fact that , after having seen it very recently , it continues to hold up as well as it did when I was younger . I recommend it to everyone of all ages - it's funny , charming , sweet-natured and very enjoyable .
Amazingly eerie ; perfectly constructed ; a bit of a recycled ending ; still excellent . . .	An older-age tale spins around the plot of " The Sixth Sense " and has Nicole Kidman and her two children finding themselves being haunted in a creepy , mist-covered home . Very eerie and atmospheric ; great suspense . I rate it a strong " 5 " out of 5 stars .
My vote for best western of all time goes to " Little Big Man " ( 1970 ) . . .	There's some classic folklore regarding " Little Big Man . " Legend has it that Dustin Hoffman sat in his dressing room prior to filming and screamed at the top of his lungs for an hour in order to gain the raspy voice of a 122-year-old man for the voice-over soundtrack of the film . I don't know if that's true or not , but regardless of the methods he may have used to gain his coarse voice , it works like a charm . Until the very end , I doubted whether it was even Hoffman doing the voice-over at all . And speaking of the ending , it is purely and simply one of the greatest ever made . The story is something that Hollywood likes to do a lot ; only this time it's the best version . Having just watched " The Last Samurai , " I realized the similarities between both films - - a man is taken in by his potential enemies and treated as one of their own . Then , when faced with the possibility of war , he must choose which side to fight for . And , as I said in my review of " The Last Samurai , " both films similarly bash General Custer . In that movie , samurai warriors captured the hero . In " Little Big Man , " the hero is captured by Indians - - or , more correctly , saved . After being massacred in a sandy desert by the Indians , a young boy named Jack Crabb is kidnapped by one of them and the Indian brings him back to their camp . As a small child , Jack is raised as one of their own . As he grows older , the " Human Beings " affectionately name him Little Big Man . As anyone can guess , he doesn't fit in with the Indians , but the Chief of the Cherokees ( Chief Dan George , who died 11 years after the film was made ) takes a liking to Little Big Man . Jack refers to him as " Grandfather , " even up until the end of the film . Much to the chagrin of some Indians his own age , Jack begins to grow into an adult - - he looks a lot like Dustin Hoffman , too . When he hits adulthood , Jack leaves the Indians and heads out into civilization , where he meets Mrs . Louise Pendrake ( Faye Dunaway ) and his sister , Caroline ( Carole Androsky ) , who fled from the safety of the Indians one night years before , leaving Jack by himself . Jack , as an adult , even joins General Custer and is present at the infamous Custer's Last Stand , where he has to choose whether or not to fight against his own kind or become a traitor to the Indians . In between we follow Jack's adventures as he tries to make a living a number of different ways - - by helping an old man sell fake medicine to townspeople , to going out into the wild to find his kidnapped wife . ( He eventually ends up finding her years later , only to see her as a wife to one of the Indians . She doesn't even recognize him . ) This is an amazing , beautiful movie , filmed and released at the height of Cowboy and Indian movies . The message isn't gooey and sentimental like it could have been handled - - it seems very real . We become so affectionate towards Jack's character that when small things happen to him we feel sad or happy , or even laugh at the small humorous quirks . ( Such as the irony that Mrs . Pendrake becomes a prostitute after having preached to Jack years before about the importance of avoiding Satan's temptation . ) The director , Arthur Penn , stands back and lets things play out in old fashion film-making style . No quick cuts or awkward camera angles during action sequences - - this feels like a real old-fashioned western movie , even though it was released in 1970 , the decade when the westerns started to increasingly diminish . The political correctness of the film is easily overlooked . For once it seemed as though Indians were not portrayed as the type of tree-loving mythical warriors in such films as the terrible " Pocahontas " ( Disney version ) . No , here we get a lot of Custer bashing , which probably had to do with the fact that the Vietnam War was going on at the time of release . Custer's attack on the Washita was perhaps intended to trigger thoughts of the Calley massacre at My Lai , the trial of which was going on the same year as the film . And I seriously doubt whether Custer was quite as crazy as Richard Mulligan portrays him in " Little Big Man . " Egotistical , yes , but I don't think he suddenly started calling people " Mr . President " at the Last Stand and tried to murder them . But the film is also a subtle satire of the west . Besides , the film will sweep your thoughts away into other terrain before you have time to get mad over some of the inaccuracies and stereotypes . Example ? The acting is marvelous , and full credit goes to Dustin Hoffman , who carries this film from beginning to end . I don't usually think of Dustin Hoffman as one of the best actors ever made , but I think that's because he so often disappears into character . He rarely plays himself . In " Tootsie " he plays a woman , in " Rain Man " he plays a mentally challenged individual , and in " Little Big Man " he plays a sort of hybrid between an Indian and a cowboy . He doesn't know what he is , and his journey to find out is what holds us , as an audience , so interested in the story . My two votes for best westerns ever made would go to " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " ( 1969 ) and " Little Big Man " ( 1970 ) . Both films are very different . Both are very amazing . .
A well-made , honest character study that takes its time ; a rewarding and refreshing experience .	Prior to seeing " City of God " I kept hearing it was like a Brazilian " GoodFellas , " and Total Film Magazine said it was one of the best films of the year . Then Roger Ebert said it was one of the best films he'd ever seen and it got intense praise from critics everywhere . I kept wondering why critics continued comparing its style to " GoodFellas . " Now I know why . Like " GoodFellas , " this is an extremely visceral movie with a very hard edge ; it kept me glued to my seat in a way that few movies do , and in fact - yep , you guessed it - the last time I remember being so enthralled by movie-making and a story was when I saw " GoodFellas " the first time . " City of God " is about a group of youths growing up in Rio de Janeiros , where you're lucky to live past 20 . It follows one character in particular - a young boy who wants to be a photographer , and abandon his brother's path of violence and bloodshed ; he wants to be a respectable journalist , but only if he can survive the mean streets . " City of God " is a complex film with many different narratives going on at the same time . This non-chronological , refreshing way of telling a story is something I've longed for in cinema recently ; formulas are becoming so repetitive I know what's going to happen in a movie just by looking at the poster . Action movies : Stallone or Arnie take on bad guys like it's going out of style . Romantic comedies : Guy gets girl or vice versa . It's routine to the point of nausea . I don't know if " City of God " is the absolute best film in years , but it ranks pretty high up there . It's a refreshing experience and the only problem I see here is that based on its popularity , we're going to see a lot of American directors trying to ape the style ; we all know how that works .
A powerful film - - see it for what it is , and try to ignore the controversy	Those who have protested Brokeback Mountain have likely seen few movies in their lifetime . There's nothing all that daring or new here ? two famous young stars playing gay lovers ? Wow , that's a first . Unless you are aware of a film called " My Own Private Idaho " released a decade and a half ago . You could even be daring enough to claim the first gay cowboy movie was Midnight Cowboy . And let's face it ? sexual taboo has been a regular theme in many European films for years . The only difference here is that Brokeback has hit the mainstream and it's been in the Oscar competition , which means more people are likely to be made aware of it ? and attack it . The bottom line is : it's not really deserving of the hype about it being a " gay movie . " It is , however , far more deserving of its critical hype ? the praise critics have bestowed upon it for being a good movie . Because it is a good movie . It's a very good movie . Ang Lee is a fine director ( if overly ambitious at times ? his Hulk was a failure because it tried too hard , the opposite of most comic-book movies ) ? this is his swan song . At times it is subtle and quiet and at others deeply moving , featuring a graceful dramatic arc that makes a wide sweep across many years in the lives of two men who " ain't queer " but are inexplicably drawn to each other as time progresses . The interesting aspect dealt with here ? and what makes it better than the gay-exploitation romantic-drama it could have easily been ? is that Lee's film studies the impact a forbidden relationship has on two men over a span of time . Both men ( played by Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal in the best performances of their careers ) become married and have children ? but they also both return to Brokeback Mountain , the place that sparked their secret relationship . There are moments that go on too long or are too slow . There are also a few scenes that cry out , " Independent ! " ( It's got that new Focus Features edge that " The Station Agent " and " Eternal Sunshine " both also had . ) However , for the most part it's a masterfully shot motion picture that deals less with homosexuality and more with the concept of love in general . I don't think the movie's intent is , as some people boycotting Wal-Mart for selling the film have claimed , " to spread homosexuality . " Anyone who becomes gay after seeing a movie about gay cowboys probably wasn't very straight to begin with . If you see this film , see it for what it is ? don't focus too much on the controversy , because it's just publicity at this point . But underneath the controversy-hype there's a really strong , powerful film ? yup , far superior to " Crash " ( which insulted my intelligence ) ? waiting to break free . A lot of people will feel uneasy watching it ( voting statistics on IMDb reveal that the male demographics are responsible for much lower votes than women ) . Then again , a lot of people will just refuse to even give it that much of a chance and will bash it without even seeing it . That's a shame .
A brilliant - if imperfect - biopic of a tragically misunderstood man	Lenny Bruce loved words . The most common misconception is that he did not . Today , Bruce is best known for revolutionizing the face of stand-up ? paving the way for such future talents as George Carlin and Bill Hicks ? but not many people are actually familiar with his comedy , and that's a shame , because there was a lot more to it than just swearing . He was infamously arrested over a dozen or so times for speaking offensively in comedy clubs , and eventually began to represent himself in court . He never gained respect when he was alive , and so he died a frustrated , misunderstood soul who was simply far too ahead of his time . The masses didn't get him . His racial jokes and political satire was misinterpreted and taken at face value . His sermons ridiculing religion drew hate from conservative Americans . But Bruce enjoyed toying with words , and bending the typical perception of what they symbolized ? he cherished the impact they had on people . When Bruce said a certain four-letter expletive , it wasn't to purposely offend people ? it was to help liberate their ways of thinking . Words were an entryway - once he could knock people off-balance , he was free to go for the throat . He used foul language in the same way as he used words dealing with religion , homosexuals , politics and the world ? he used them to make a point . And it's a shame his point didn't resonate until after his death . The makers of " Lenny " understood Bruce , though . They also understood his flaws as a human being , and the result is an unflinchingly honest biopic that paints a dark , staunch portrait of a troubled man . Dustin Hoffman presents Lenny as an alternately despicable and heroic figure , and there is a spark in his eyes throughout the early scenes of the movie that eventually gives way to desperation later in the picture . Hoffman is so convincing we forget we are watching an actor . He entirely embodies himself within Lenny Bruce , adapting all of the comic's tics and habits . The movie is told from the perspective of those who knew Bruce ? his wife , Honey ( Valerie Perrine ) , his aunt , and his manager . The narrative cuts back and forth between scenes with Lenny and interview segments , which we see through the eyes of an off-screen interviewer ( whose voice is none other than the movie's director , Bob Fosse ) . " Lenny " is an uncomfortable film , and it is not by any means perfect . The matter-of-fact narrative is a bit alienating and prevents us from getting entirely close to Bruce ? but that may very well have been the point . A more heartfelt biography of the performer perhaps would have restricted Fosse and screenwriter Julian Barry from divulging into Lenny's more seedy character traits ? such as when he coerces his unwilling wife into a threesome with another woman , later ridiculing her for doing so ; or when he goes on stage completely drugged out of his mind and makes a fool of himself . If they had allowed audiences to empathize with Bruce to a greater degree , truth may have been sacrificed along the way . And although the narrative is rather cold , it's also unique ? sometimes refreshingly so . Despite imperfections , " Lenny " is one of the better motion pictures of the 1970s ? and perhaps one of the movies that best capture the essence of cinema from a time when the mainstream and art-house were coexistent . It is a typical 1970s production insofar as that it is grim , bleak and more depressing than any production you would have seen on the screen a decade earlier ? but it's an admirable feat . Fosse has a close grip on the direction and Hoffman and Perrine are both absolutely superb , bringing to life two very tortured souls who temporarily found solace in each other , before finding their relationship put to the test by drug abuse and self-loathing . Lenny died from a heroin overdose in 1966 . In 2003 he was granted a posthumous pardon by New York State for his most notable arrest in 1964 , for an " obscene performance . " It's a nice gesture , although one can't help but think it would have only really made a difference 40 years ago .
Taut , tense and believable	" Witness " has always been one of my favorite films and one that has struck close to home . My family comes from Pennsylvania's " Amish country " and I spent a great deal of time growing up around the Amish , even visiting their homes once in a while . When " Witness " came out , people finally started to take more of an interest - - or at least become aware of - - the Amish . Without this film , I very much doubt Randy Quaid would have played an Amish man in " Kingpin . " And so on and so forth . " Witness " is a very faithful adaptation of the Amish way of life , remaining respectful of the culture without resorting to the typical " Hollywoodinization " of the material . Yes , Kelly McGillis ' character does transform a bit , but that's essential to the story . All the other characters remain the same , and do not change , which I felt was a very important aspect ; how believable would this have been if , at the end , they all drove away in a car or something and ditched their roots . It'd be pretty embarrassing , I think . " Witness " is one of the best films of its genre and an excellent character study . It is intelligently made , almost never ( if ever ) insulting , and features one of Harrison Ford's best performances . The conclusion does draw out a bit and perhaps a few minutes here and there could be cut without really harming the flow , but in my opinion the movie is only better due to its length - - it doesn't cater to the teen audiences who can't appreciate longer and quieter , subtler thrillers . In a decade when chills and spills were almost always involving teens having premarital sex and being sliced and diced by nameless , masked killers , " Witness " had a new angle to draw upon - - and it's about a hundred times more thrilling , and believable , than any of the other films released during the era .
Too bad no one realizes that THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION copied off this film . . .	Though one is fictional and the other is not , I think the director of THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION took a few creative " liberties " and copied off ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ because they knew not many people have heard of this low budget film . Almost everything in this film is copied off of in SHAWSHANK . Maybe the whole escape is a bit different , but not by far ! So see this film too-and judge for yourself . I wish people would realize the directors copied off ALCATRAZ , and that SHAWSHANK doesn't deserve to be no 2 on the top 250 at all . They're both great films , but this was the original . The shower scene is a perfect example . Now for my film comment . I thought that Clint Eastwood , though cursed with the same face , pulled this film off . The direction style was nice , and though low-budget , this film just plain works for me . starsJOHN ULMER
Like " Dodgeball , " just stupid and silly enough to be entertaining	This is not a great comedy nor is it even as funny or even as " Dodgeball . " But Ben Stiller's character here is very similar to his character in " Dodgeball " and I view it as a continuation of the same general person - - an obsessive , delusional , insane fitness instructor . In " Heavy Weights " Stiller is the new instructor at a " fat kid camp " who at first appears to be quite normal and nice but , once the parents turn their backs , transforms into a vicious fitness guru bent on turning the fat kids into a bunch of slim , well-adjusted teenagers . This movie lacks the most basic intellectual intelligence and common sense - - Stiller's motivation is slight and what will he do to silence the children once they leave camp ? Nevertheless it's quite a funny little film that doesn't attempt to be anything other than a simple family story . For a PG Disney movie this is entertaining enough to please older audiences and adult enough in its material in certain places to raise an eyebrow or two . The ending is way over-the-top , but then again so is Stiller - - and he's really the reason to watch this in the first place .
Another episode back on par	After a string of disappointing episodes they really picked up in time for the season finale ( which is next week ) . In " Charlie Goes America All Over Everybody's Ass , " Dennis begins smoking in the bar , which upsets Charlie and Dee , who both think smoking should be illegal . As Charlie and Dee start campaigning to be pro-American and anti-smoking , Mac , Dennis and Frank decide to take advantage of the New Orleans disaster by opening a " New Orleans bar " - where anything goes and there are no restrictions on freedom . But soon , as they realize , absolute freedom has a price when people begin going wild and Frank's Vietnam buddies start playing Russian roulette in the basement . This is one of the better episodes . It's a satirical statement on blind American patriotism , but it also realizes that freedom can never be completely " free " or people will take advantage of it . As a political comment it's surprisingly effective - if not as subtle as other episodes - and the jokes are very funny . Charlie running out into the street yelling " Attaca ! " is going to go down as one of the season highlights . I can't wait for the finale next week .
A rare modern-day masterpiece that feels like a product of the ' 60s rather than the present day	Capote is a great film ? one that captures the cinematic aesthetic of 1950s and ' 60s cinema and does , indeed , come across as a product of the era . ( In fact , presenting the movie in black and white rather than modern-day filtered color may have been a wiser choice . ) . From the opening , graceful shot of swaying cornfields to the punctuating closing frame , Capote is a magnificently crafted ( if somewhat flawed ) character study hiding behind the false façade of a standard Hollywood biopic ( and it is so much more ) . The film's approach to chronicling its titular figure is pleasing and unusual ? it doesn't chart his entire existence from birth to death ; rather , it drops us square in the middle of a key event of his life that dramatically altered his own perception for years to come . Directed by newcomer Bennett Miller , it is a promising and captivating character examination that takes place over a short six-year time period , beginning with the ruthless slaying of a family in Kansas in November 1959 and ending with the execution of the killers in April 1965 . Flamboyantly gay author Truman Capote becomes interested in the story and travels to Holcomb , Kansas with Harper Lee ( Catherine Keener ) to write an article about the tragedy . However , after meeting with the two young men who committed the crime , Capote feels compelled to extend the story into a " nonfiction novel " ? and he even begins to have possible romantic feelings for Perry Smith ( Clifton Collins , Jr . ) , a soft-spoken and sensitive man whom Capote feels a deep spiritual link with . He claims at one point in the film , " It's as if Perry and I grew up in the same house . And one day he went out the back door and I went out the front . " The movie does have a few problems , primarily its editing ? which is sloppy , unnecessarily slow at times and yet at other points much too fast . The direction is not superb or showy , although I think Miller's conservative approach is in part to adapt to the style of cinema from a half-century ago . Furthermore , considering the fact that this is Miller's second movie , it is still very impressive and vastly superior to the direction of Paul Haggis ' noisy , flashy " Crash . " Hoffman , the P . T . Anderson regular who has come to be known amongst film buffs as one of the generation's finest character actors ( he is for his generation what Steve Buscemi , Peter Lorre and Harry Dean Stanton were for theirs ) , buries himself inside Truman Capote . You simply forget you are watching the sleazy phone sex kingpin from " Punch-Drunk Love " ? he disappears inside his role . Every mannerism , every verbal pronunciation ? it's all nailed perfectly . His Best Actor grab was well deserved rivaled only perhaps by Joaquin Phoenix's embodiment of Johnny Cash in Walk the Line . Capote is a splendid character film , one that examines the manipulation and self-centeredness of its " hero " and isn't afraid to expose his lesser qualities . The film does not pander to its audience , nor does it cater to the standards of the Biopic . Its few flaws ? such as its inability to present Harper Lee and other supporting characters as well-rounded people , or its lackluster editing ? don't detract from the overall product , which is an incredibly tasteful and artistic examination of greed , betrayal , love and heartbreak . The movie is about Capote's experience writing In Cold Blood ? rather than his entire life - - for a reason , and that reason is made vibrantly clear by the end of the film .
Classic ' 70s crime film , with Gene Hackman in top form	The ' 70s produced some truly great films , and " The French Connection " is one of them . This is the case of a film that wasn't ill-received on release - - it won four Oscars ( including Best Actor and Best Picture ) and pretty much solidified his career . He had , up till this point , been known for his smaller roles in films like " Bonnie and Clyde " - this one proved he could really act and carry a film on his own . It's a story about a racist police officer ( Hackman ) on the tail of a French drug cartel importing into the States . This movie is not an easy ride and it has a rather depressing aura , but it's still a very good picture - one of the best of the decade , which is saying quite a lot . Hackman is perfect as Popeye Doyle . Most people think this is his greatest role . I'm not sure , Harry Caul ( from " The Conversation " ) is about an even tie . But it's certainly one of his best roles and one of his most intense performances . A must-see .
A classic comedy performance	I try to avoid the Denis Leary / Bill Hicks " taking sides " stance , because no one knows for sure what was stolen , who might have stolen what , and so on and so forth . Evidence has been put forward for both parties - I try to focus on their individual acts and not let the controversy over who's the real " genius " ruin their performances . Everyone steals from everyone - in the end , it's who did it best that matters . Hicks was very funny . Misunderstood in his lifetime - and understandably so - but his death has given him a more legendary status amongst comedy aficionandos . In this classic performance from ' 92 , Hicks rants about everything - politics , smoking , abortion , music , life , death , sex - and hits some really funny stuff . Unfortunately , in my own opinion his actual delivery is not as funny as some other comedians . Hicks went for the throat - and sometimes he went too far . He was a great comedian , but I think a few more years would have helped him perfect the actual delivery of his jokes , because as you can hear in this recording , he often pauses or messes up his jokes ( presumably because he forgets the next line ) . If you enjoy comedy , this is a must-have . It's one of Hicks ' classic performances and a classic performance by any standard , really .
Easily the best film of 2002 . . .	" About Schmidt " is a quirky , offbeat comedy about a man and his journey to find meaning to his life . Its name is true ; " About Schmidt " is about . . . well . . . a man named Schmidt . Warren Schmidt ( Jack Nicholson ) is your average Joe . Or , in this case , your average Warren . He lives a normal life . He has just retired at the age of sixty-seven , and he now stays at home with his wife , who Schmidt states he is growing tired of . He's tired of having to do everything his wife , Helen , tells him to do . He's tired of her cutting him off when he's talking . He's tired of the way she sits down . He's tired of the way she pulls out the keys to the car before they're even out the door . And he's tired of having to sit down when he goes to the bathroom . In a letter to Ntugu ( his new " adopted " sponsor child ) , Warren spills his beans about life . That same day he comes home from mailing a letter to Ntugu , to find his wife , dead on the floor . We learn later that she died from a blood clot in her brain . Left on his own , Warren realizes how good his wife was , and how much he misses her . But then he finds out that twenty-five to thirty years ago she had an affair with an old friend of his , and in one of the most subtley funny moments in the film , dumps off her old belongings at a donation center . Warren , still missing his wife but truly bitter at what she did , eventually decides to go visit his daughter in the south , and packs up the 35-foot-long Winnebago with everything he needs . His daughter , who is about to be married to a complete loser , has different ideas , and tells Warren once he is on the road that it would be best if they stick to the plan and he comes down two days before the wedding . Left with about a week before the wedding , Warren takes a road trip back down memory lane . He visits his old childhood home - which is now a tire store . " This is where the bedroom would've been , " he tells a clerk , who looks on in awe . After that , Warren one way or another ends up eating dinner with a couple from the RV park he's staying in . When the husband goes out to get more beer , the woman says that she sees a sad , sad man in Warren . Afraid and angry . Once Warren arrives for the wedding , he realizes that his daughter is happy with the man she is about to marry , no matter how much of a loser he is . And in a scene that could have been played for laughs but wasn't ( which is good in this case , making deep characters instead of flimsy ones ) , Warren makes a toast to his daughter and her new husband . And then Warren goes home . It's the end of the movie already . Not much has happened , and Warren tells Ntugu that his life has no point . His life has no meaning . Why go on ? But then he gets a letter , and in the sense of " It's a Wonderful Life , " Warren sees the meaning in his life . " About Schmidt " isn't for everyone . People that cannot tolerate slow-moving films should not see this . Those that cannot appreciate characters that are deep , but yet still funny , should not see this movie . If people want a Jack Nicholson movie played just for laughs , with your average characters , I recommend " Anger Management . " But if you want a classic example of fine storytelling , see " About Schmidt . " The characters are funny , but not outrageous . They are not there to make us laugh . They are there to preach something , much like in " It's a Wonderful Life . " But they do make us laugh , in the little quirks of life . Things we all do . The first forty minutes of this movie is an absolute hoot , and those forty minutes are probably funnier than any movie you'll see this year . But not outwardly funny ; like I said , this isn't an Adam Sandler movie . This is a realistic movie with realistic characters doing real things that are funny . It's a self-parody for all the viewers . The little quirks all the different characters have will either a ) remind you of someone you know , or b ) remind you of yourself . Jack Nicholson is an absolute stand-out in this movie . I can't see anyone else playing him quite as well as Nicholson . And I must admit that I've never been a real fan of Jack , either . But when he is on screen in this film , we see a sad , lonely , angry and afraid old man who is wondering through life , living each day , but not for any apparent reason . Alexander Payne has crafted a wonderful life-parody / drama here . I didn't expect this much from " About Schmidt , " but I sure did get more than I bargained for . And in this case , what I didn't bargain for was better than what I did . stars - John Ulmer
Very good concert performance	This concert tribute to the late Freddie Mercury ( frontmen of legendary UK rock band QUEEN ) is a great performance . There are so many guest appearances , including Elton John , Def Leppard and Axl Rose . There are many musical performances , but the most popular - - and best - - has to be the reinterpretation of Queen's most famous song , Bohemian Rhapsody , which is performed here by Elton John and Axl Rose . It's a great performance , a great song - - and it sounds ( arguably ) even better with John and Rose singing it . ( Although Queen fans may disagree on that one . ) Overall this is a great performance and everyone involved is giving 100 % . And for the record , I absolutely loved the performance of We Will Rock You , which is probably the second best song here - and it's really well performed . Worth watching .
One of Spielberg's best - an important and thought-provoking film	" Munich " is not an easy film to watch - it is realistically ( and sometimes gratuitously ) violent , it is disturbing , it can be rather hard to follow at times , and it is quite long ( at nearly three hours ) - but it is a rewarding film that provokes thought . . . something which , unfortunately , many Hollywood films fail to accomplish these days . It is very loosely based on the aftermath of Black September and the 1972 Munich Massacre in Germany , during which eleven Israeli athletes were slaughtered by Palestinian terrorists who had tried to use the hostages as leverage in a political battle . Following the attack , the Israeli government assembled a crew of Jewish men to travel across West Europe and assassinate the figures involved in the planning of the events in Munich . The team of five is led by the character portrayed by Eric Bana , and he begins to wrestle with his own tormented conscious as he questions whether his actions are just or if he is merely being used as a pawn to carry out secret government killings . The cast is top-notch , and it's one of Spielberg's most well-directed films in ages . It's refreshing to see this after a string of generic no-brainers such as " War of the Worlds " and " The Terminal . " This echoes " Saving Private Ryan " and " Schindler's List " as some of the riskiest material Spielberg has worked with , but he manages to pull it off without taking sides ( as many have tried to twist it into some type of Israel - . vs . - Pakistan debate ) . He also manages to take the material - of which there isn't much available documented facts - and make it compelling and engaging without necessarily going out of his way to distort facts . In his DVD introduction , Spielberg explains that creative liberties had to be taken simply due to the fact that no one has " come out " yet and really released any definitive information on what , exactly , happened after the Munich massacre . The only thing that's known is that a group was assembled , and nine of eleven targets were assassinated across Europe in the months that followed . The film provokes discussion and , although some better editing could have brought its runtime down a good twenty minutes or so , Spielberg proves once again that when he's at the top of his game he really is a great director - one can only hope that he begins to work like Scorsese and choose his projects more carefully .
Pixar's most " epic " animated film since " Toy Story . "	Although " The Incredibles " is not the best film Pixar has released ( via Disney ) since 1995's " Toy Story , " I felt it is the most epic . When I went to go see " Toy Story " in 1995 , the epic scale of the picture - - the non-stop frantic pace , the action sequences , etc . - - were all so breathtaking that it contained the same tour de force attitude as , believe it or not , a blockbuster such as " Terminator 2 " : a crowd-pleasing , overwhelming picture . " Monsters , Inc . " wasn't quite as epic . It was a great movie , just as good as " Toy Story , " but it didn't have the same style per se . " Finding Nemo " was very good as well but still didn't capture the same epic scale as " Toy Story . " ( I'm not saying that's a bad thing , just different . ) " The Incredibles " seemed to . I saw it on DVD and from beginning to end the action is non-stop , the laughs aplenty , and the exotic locations and action-hero references continuous . For this reason , somehow , it reminded me very much of " Toy Story . " It seemed like older Pixar , rather than some of their newer stuff ( all of which is great as well ) . Pixar has yet to make a bad movie . Even their worst - - " A Bug's Life " - - was better than most animated films . " The Incredibles " also returns to the spoof roots of " Monsters , Inc . " and " Toy Story " ( something " Finding Nemo " did but not as often ) - - it parodies cultural references . ( Something hard to do in an underwater sea adventure . ) Although this is a family film , it is NOT a " children's film . " That is evident from the beginning when the fake news reel in " The Incredibles " features articles about a suicidal man suing superheroes because he " didn't want to be saved . " This is clearly a tongue-in-cheek criticism of the shameless legal standards of the day . ( Such as the woman who sued McDonald's because her coffee was too hot . A true story ! ) Another film might not be clever enough to integrate iconic cultural references into itself but " The Incredibles " does . Similarly , using superheroes , Pixar examines the at-home relationship of a family and spoofs our own rituals . ( Such as eating at the dinner table - - the mom tries to stop the squabbling kids just like we do , only because she has superpowers , it's a bit . . . different . ) All in all " The Incredibles " really is a great animated film . I enjoyed it more than " Finding Nemo " ( which I didn't expect to as I loved " Nemo " ) and just as much as " Toy Story " and " Monsters , Inc . " Pixar has solidified a new style of family film-making - - the cultural parody animated film - - and the evidence of this can be seen in such take-offs of the formula as " Shrek " and " Shark Tale " ( which featured many cultural references as well ) . All in all " The Incredibles " is incredibly fun . And funny .
Great slice of underrated ( dark ) film-making from a cinematic genius	I don't know why everyone thinks " After Hours " ends happily . This is a brooding , dark , bitter film , with a pessimistic outlook on life and a downright depressing core message . It is a " comedy " with no laughs , and few chuckles . It is also a great cult film by director Martin Scorsese that came and went in 1985 with little attention . It's surprising to see that Scorsese took on another comedy so shortly after his major flop , The King of Comedy ( 1983 ) , starring Robert De Niro . Scorsese publicly acknowledged that he wished he had never made The King of Comedy and his star disowned it . It was a film so far ahead of its time , no one understood it ? or much less , cared to see it . Thank goodness this did not dissuade Scorsese from making another comedy . He was back two years later with After Hours , which is an intense , hellish , nightmarish odyssey through New York City's Soho late at night , and into the morning . The film's protagonist , Paul ( Griffin Dunne ) , is an unlikable character who generally gains sympathy with us only because of his grueling misfortunes . Fate , it seems , has a grudge against poor Paul ; as the night progresses , it only becomes worse and worse , until he is running away from a bloodthirsty mob and happens to inadvertently witness a random murder . " I'll probably get blamed for that , " he says to himself , which is exactly what we're thinking . This really is the sort of film that makes you almost want to stop watching , it is so painful . Nothing at all goes right for Paul . When he seeks comfort in a friend , he is relieved , finally able to sit back and take a breath of air - - only to look outside and see his " friend " alerting the bloodthirsty mob . The plot ? what little there is ? begins in a typical daytime office setting . Paul meets a girl after a hard day at work ( Rosanna Arquette ) and they arrange to meet later that evening . On the way there he loses all his cash through the open window of a speeding taxicab and is left with few dollars . On top of this , Paul soon realizes that Arquette is not his type and leaves to go home ? only to find that local subway fare has been raised and he doesn't have enough cash to make it back to his apartment . Thus begins his nightmare . Scorsese's genius move here is that as Paul progresses onwards into the night , the film slowly loses its balance and topples over into a distinct category of weirdness . The beginning is fairly standard and realistic . It is typical Scorsese with exterior shots of New York City , character-driven dialogue and so on and so forth . About of the way through it becomes a bizarre Terry Gilliam-esquire hell ride and Scorsese lets loose on everything . It's brilliant film-making and a devastating satire of New York's late-night underbelly . The original ending ( storyboarded but never filmed ) involved Paul being reborn after crawling through a random woman's legs ? that's how bizarre , and creative , this film actually is . Dunne is suitable in the role of Paul ? a fairly unknown character actor ; he doesn't have the charisma or talent to be a typical leading man . Which , I think , is part of the reason he seems so comfortable in the role of Paul , who is certainly one of cinema's most unusual heroes . Another film might setup Paul as a meek , hard-working , likable guy who gets stuck in bad situations ? when in fact Paul is a confident jerk who probably deserves what is coming to him . Before picking up Arquette he flirts with her roommate ( Linda Fiorentino ) and gives her a back massage . He puts the moves on Arquette , then ditches her when she resists . He's not shy and he's not an all-around good guy ? he's a flawed character that only helps the entire experience feel more realistic . Scorsese is at the top of his game here . Many techniques would be used five years later in GoodFellas . Note the ringing phone and the abrupt lunge forward ; the keys being tossed out of the window in first-person perspective ; the rotating camera as it pans around Paul's head in a diner ; and so on and so forth . Although it is not his best work nor his most distinct , After Hours is ample proof that Scorsese has a firm handle on black comedy and is able to stretch beyond his ( arguably ) typified style of gangsters and low-lifes planning how to " whack " people . Scorsese bashers should see this , and his fans should too ? insightful for everyone .
One of Mickey Rourke's best performances in a darkly funny film	" Barfly " was a fairly successful film when it was released and garnered generally favorable reviews . Roger Ebert gave it four out of four , and along with " Angel Heart , " it helped solidify 1987 as the Year of Mickey Rourke . However , almost twenty years later it isn't talked so much about anymore , and I feel it deserves to be . Rourke gives one of his finest performances as Henry , a loner who walks hunched over like the Hunchback of Notre Dame . Henry works at a bar as a runner - delivering orders and such . But he's always getting into drunken brawls with the bartender , usually losing . One day Henry's life takes a turn when he meets a downtrodden woman ( Faye Dunaway ) and they embark on a relationship . " Barfly " is a great film . Rourke was vocal later on in his career about his dislike of director Barbet Schroeder , but Schroeder's direction is part of what makes this film so good . However , the absolute best aspect of the movie is Rourke's performance . Embodying the late writer Charles Bukowski ( whose work this was based upon , and who had a brief cameo in the film ) , Rourke is unrecognizable - like Billy Bob Thornton in " Sling Blade , " his entire demeanor and physicality seems to change . I highly recommend " Barfly " - it's funny , dark , witty , touching and downright enjoyable . One of the best films of the ' 80s .
Grisham's finest film adaptation to date . . .	" The Runaway Jury " is a con movie , but a different kind of con movie . This isn't something like " The Score , " " Matchstick Men " or other movies about seemingly normal everymen pulling a heist - - it's about two regular people who successfully con an entire courtroom out of random justice . They take matters into their own hands . You've probably seen the ads already : " Trials are too important to be decided by juries . " This particular trial happens to be what Grisham himself described as " the most important trial of the century . " Well , almost , anyway . The book was about cigarettes , and the film is about gun control ( we can thank Michael Mann's " The Insider " for the plot change - - 20th Century Fox decided that a film about cigarettes might seem like a rip-off ) . So in all actuality , the movie differs from the book in one major way . But as a reader of the novel and a viewer of the movie , I didn't notice many differences - - at least not any differences that would harm the film as a whole . ( " The Firm " was brutalized with its big screen treatment . ) Essentially the same central idea as the book - - a jury being held under the control of a single man - - the story starts with Nicholas Easter ( John Cusack ) , a seemingly naive and innocent young man who is assigned to jury duty by the state after eight months of occupying his apartment . One of the biggest plot holes exists here , but by giving it away I'd be giving away some of the plot , so I resist with a grimace . Hopefully you'll notice it for yourself after ( or even before ) seeing the film . The trial is targeted against a large gun manufacturer , which allowed a chagrined office worker to purchase a handgun and shoot an office full of innocent workers in a fit of rage after being fired from the same company . Now , one of the victims ' wives is suing the gun company for allowing this " wack job " to get hold of handguns . At the defense is Rankin Fitch ( Gene Hackman ) , who is ranking as filth in this film . He's a grumpy old corporate hard-on , just like Hackman always plays ( with expert precision I might add ) , and he's essentially frowned upon as the " evil bad guy " in this movie . The good guy is Wendell Rohr ( Dustin Hoffman ) , who is playing the same type of doofus lawyer he played in " Sleepers . " Both actors play their parts with great accuracy , and their performances are the highlight of the movie . Much like the highly-anticipated De Niro / Pacino showdown in Mann's other film , " Heat , " we are finally presented with the first on-screen confrontation between Hackman and Hoffman - - two old pals who just never decided to make a movie together . I'm glad they did . When they finally share the screen together , it feels like all the tension of the movie is let loose in one major segment . It's probably the best scene in the entire film , and it's powered by these two veteran actors in a way no others could do so . ( Save De Niro and Pacino , of course . ) Essentially the jury is taken control of by Easter , who is a sly devil - - and his conniving ways are expressed clearer in the book . Here , we have to guess how he's bagging these jurors a lot of the time - - which , for someone who hasn't read the book , may be quite frustrating . The catch is that the jury therefore becomes purchasable - - for ten million dollars , the prosecution or the defense can buy a verdict . In the same style of a good old-fashioned auction , the bids keep getting higher and higher . Tension elevates , and startling revelations occur . Are the motives of Easter and his girlfriend working on the inside ( Rachel Weisz ) really what they seem ? The movie is based from a complete liberal standpoint , and the message comes across much stronger than Grisham's subtlety in the book . In fact , I somewhat agreed with a few of the points in Grisham's novels about cigarettes being targeted at children and being glamorized , etc . - - but as much as " The Runaway Jury's " film adaptation tries to convince me , I don't see why the gun company should be held responsible for allowing a man to purchase a gun and murder people . I'm not saying it's not wrong . It is wrong . But the right to bear arms is in the Constitution , and the gun company didn't purposefully give this wacko a gun . They had no clue he was going to kill people . Why should they be held responsible ? But for now , " The Runaway Jury " stands as Grisham's best film adaptation yet . Yes , you probably haven't been able to tell from my review thus far , but I absolutely enjoyed this film from beginning to end . It has its flaws , and like all Grisham adaptations it also seems to lack the narrative drive of the author's writing - - which makes up for his plot holes - - but " The Runaway Jury " always was one of Grisham's strongest-plotted books . It's now his be st film adaptation , carried by two great performances by two of the great screen veterans of our time . ( Actors that are sometimes type cast because of past career-shaping performances . ) I must admit that I was waiting for Hoffman to suddenly ask for K-Mart underwear , or to recite which aircraft carriers have had fatal crashes in the past , or to suddenly request that he immediately view an episode of " Jeopardy , " but he never did . And that's always a good sign , isn't it ? stars . - John Ulmer
A classic film noir / mystery with Bogart , Bacall and director Hawks in top form .	" The Big Sleep " is one of those famous film noirs you always hear about , which has helped redefine ( or even revolutionize ) the entire genre . It stars Humphrey Bogart as famous screen detective Philip Marlowe , summoned by a dying General to investigate several problems related to the dying man's family . As Marlowe searches deeper he finds each issue involves the disappearance of an employee who has left town with a mobster's wife . Secrets are unturned , revelations made known . . . and so on and so forth . Howard Hawks was a great , great director and that really shows through here - more so than anything else . This film stands the test of time incredibly well . For a film from 1946 , you'd hardly guess it isn't a modern one . The way the material is handed is something I'd never expect from a film from the 1940s . The performances are great . Bogart creates one of cinema's most endearing characters as Marlowe , the private eye with a lot on his mind . Bacall is a suitable ( if not particularly captivating ) love interest . The movie is well-written , well-directed and well-acted . Seen almost sixty years later , it's still a great film noir - and one of the best of its genre .
An excellent , misunderstood film by Martin Scorsese	In the opening sequence of Martin Scorsese's " Taxi Driver " ( 1976 ) we see the watery eyes of Robert De Niro , examining his surroundings , breathing in the atmosphere visually . His deadly stare sends a shiver down our spines , giving us the impression of a man haunted by unseen demons . In " Bringing Out the Dead " the watery pair of eyes belong to Nicolas Cage , who has always given the appearance of an unhealthy , perhaps diseased human being , not so much harmed by natural causes as much as by his environment . " Bringing Out the Dead " is a movie that takes place primarily during the night , where the seedy low-lifes come out to play . Hookers , pimps , junkies , gangs - they're everywhere that Frank ( Cage ) looks . He can't escape them . But when we look closer , we realize he is not haunted by the people themselves as much as the faces he is seeing - the face of an 18-year-old girl that he was unable to save months earlier . Frank is a paramedic in New York City . He rides around at night with his partner ( John Goodman ) whose confusingly pessimistic optimism could be compared to that of Wizard in " Taxi Driver , " although like many fans of the film , I do not think that comparing the two movies too often is such a good idea . They are two separate pieces of work , both with different points . Because the film was directed by Scorsese , and written by Paul Schrader ( " Taxi Driver " ) , comparisons are almost inevitable . But are they just ? In short , no , they are not . Scorsese's similarities to " Taxi Driver " are sometimes deliberate , such as his decision to use quick cuts of the ambulance tail lights and sirens , and of course the examining eyes of Cage . Both of these shots were used in " Taxi Driver , " only the ambulance was of course a taxi . Both films take place in New York City , primarily at night , where a beaten-down , depressed , shy , socially-awkward man stares out of the window of his vehicle , trying to make sense of the madness on the streets . One night , Frank saves a man from a heart attack . He is put in the custody of a nearby hospital , and the man's worried daughter ( Patricia Arquette ) consoles in Frank . Why ? " My mother always told me I had the face of a priest , " he explains , in an effort to justify her own ramblings . In that sort of way , Frank is very similar to Travis Bickle . But those who say that " Bringing Out the Dead " is merely a remake of " Taxi Driver " are short-sighted , narrow-minded individuals . It is a movie with very deep themes , and a poignant message . It makes you think , versus most summer blockbusters . It was advertised on the trailers as a ghost movie in the vein of " The Sixth Sense . " It isn't . Instead , it's a truly touching character piece that is always on the verge of becoming a modern-day masterpiece . ( And incidentally , in case the critics who hated " Bringing Out the Dead " have forgotten , " Taxi Driver " was originally considered to be a boring , pointless movie , with an " unlikable leading man " and " disgusting morals . " Sometimes the years can help a movie become far more appreciated , and I feel fairly confident that this will be the case with " Dead . " ) Some critics were unimpressed with the film's wandering , but that is the entire point . To the paramedics portrayed in " Bringing Out the Dead , " night and day intertwine ; days fly by with no real purpose ; there is no apparent point to their lives , other than to save people . And for Frank , the ghosts come back to haunt him , which is something he probably never expected after initially deciding to become a paramedic .
One of the best films I've ever seen .	So I was scrolling through a Borders outside of London one day , looking at all the expensive R2 DVDs I didn't have enough money for , when I spotted a movie I had never even heard of starring Al Pacino - " The Panic in Needle Park . " It had the same front cover ( style-wise ) as " Scarface , " which was an obvious marketing ploy . It had a quote from Francis Ford Coppola , which claimed he chose Pacino for " The Godfather " after seeing the film and screening it to Paramount execs . It had piqued my interest and it was only five pounds ( roughly ten dollars ) so I thought , " Why not ? If it's awful it's still only five pounds . " I bought it , went home later that night and watched it . I was blown away because it was easily one of the more interesting character studies I'd ever seen . It's got unlikable characters , for sure , but there's still a connection to them which allowed me , at least , to relate to their struggles . ( And no , I don't use heroin . ) The film stars Al Pacino in one of his very first roles as a heroin addict living in New York City , an era dubbed " Needle Park , " where all the junkies hang out . ( I believe I saw the exact same park in another drug movie released the same year , called " Born to Win , " starring George Segal and Robert De Niro . ) Pacino gets a girlfriend and gets her hooked on heroin . Essentially the film just examines her downfall from prosperity to hellish misfortune - they both live for their next hit . The movie is unflinching . It's raw , brutal , and uneasy . ( I recall reading they actually hired heroin addicts for the " shoot-up " scenes , something that would never be allowed today . ) I can understand how some people might be put off by the slow pace of the movie and say , " How can I be expected to enjoy a movie with such vile characters ? " However , I thought it was handled well - it's on the verge of exploitation sometimes ( primarily the scenes which show the junkies shooting up ) but for the most part manages to walk a careful line between exploitation and study . Pacino's performance is one of his best ever , which is a shame because he never receives credit for it . It's one of the only roles where he isn't in control and although he does yell a few times , for the most part he's more calm and subdued - Michael Corleone as a drug addict . " The Panic in Needle Park " is a great , underrated film and I highly recommend it to anyone who thinks they can handle the content . It's not a rewarding experience in the typical sense but after spending two hours with miserable heroin addicts , it will make you feel better about your own lifestyle .
One of John Wayne's best films , and sadly his last	" The Shootist " was John Wayne's last film . He died of cancer shortly after its release . Ironic , then , that his character in the movie is a " shootist " dying of cancer out west in 1901 . His doctor ( James Stewart ) gives him a short period of time to live . He decides to take an easier route , and returns to his old stomping grounds in order to find a quick and painless death . Along the way he meets The Son ( Ron Howard in one of his early roles ) , and a various assortment of other characters , in his search for suicide . Don Siegel ( " Dirty Harry " ) has always been one of my favorite directors - - he's made some truly terrific films in his career . " The Shootist " is one of his best . The last thing we expect in a John Wayne film is a dying , frail , pessimistic human being . We get it . Books , the titular " shootist , " is arguably Wayne's deepest character he would ever play ; and his story is one of the most compelling of Wayne's entire career . The acting is top-notch , the direction low-key , subtle , and effective . It's hard-edged , just like " Dirty Harry " ( 1971 ) : bloody , violent , a bit over-the-top ( if it were made in Hollywood today it would probably look a lot like " Kill Bill " ) . Yet the film's best moments are those involving its character , Books , and his strange quest for death . This movie strikes chords on many different levels . It's a really good film , one of the best of the 1970s , one of Don Siegel's best , and one of John Wayne's best , too . And that's saying quite a lot .
Entertaining , thought-provoking / smart , well-acted and brilliantly photographed and directed - - what more could you ask for ?	Angel Heart is a winding psychological thriller that - - in 1987 - - was far ahead of its time . So far that audiences didn't ' get it ' and the film bombed at the box office . Only now are we beginning to see endings like this one surface in horror movies . Had Angel Heart been made a decade or so later , perhaps it would have succeeded . As it is , the movie ? which has a strong cult following and was recently re-released on a Special Edition DVD ? is nothing short of mesmerizing . I wouldn't go so far as to call it great , or a ' masterpiece , ' but it is scary , disturbing , influential , thought-provoking , and a lot smarter and more atmospheric than 99 % of the rip-off horror movies being made today . It stars Mickey Rourke as Harry Angel , a private eye from Brooklyn in the 1950s who is hired by Louis Cyphere ( Robert De Niro ) to locate a mysterious singer named Johnny Favorite , who disappeared in the early ? 40s and hasn't been seen since . Angel's journey takes him from the streets of New York to jazz clubs in Harlem and , finally , to the sweltering swamps of Louisiana . He meets a variety of characters , all of who have little to say about Favorite . All we seem to know is that he was a singer , entered the war , and was shot , had his face reconstructed , was taken out of hospital care , and apparently vanished from the face of the earth . I guessed the twist of the movie about seven minutes in , as soon as Robert De Niro appeared on screen during an extended cameo . But that's not to say that the movie won't affect you . Notorious when released for some controversial scenes ( including a sequence involving Rourke and The Cosby Show's Lisa Bonet ) , the movie's moody atmosphere is its strongest element . The acting , too , is very strong . This is Rourke's finest performance , as Harry Angel , a scumbag detective with nothing to lose . On the new DVD , Rourke claims he wasn't very interested in acting at the time , and as a result ' just showed up ' and ' memorized the lines . ' I find that hard to believe ? Rourke's acting here is Oscar-worthy . His recent descent into self-loathing has caused his career to fall apart ( he was never enthusiastic about acting and wanted to become a boxer instead ) ; he shouldn't discredit his earlier work merely because he's upset with his life . The role of Louis Cyphere ( get it ? ) is also one of De Niro's most ambitious performances ; he delves entirely into character and leaves a lasting impact on the viewer . It was directed by ( Sir ) Alan Parker , the famous British filmmaker ( of , among others , Midnight Express ) . Some say this is his finest film ? wonderfully crafted , beautifully shot , masterfully edited ? and I'd have to say that if it isn't his best , it certainly ranks somewhere at the top .
A classic masterpiece	Gone With the Wind is one of the most recognized , long remembered films of all time . It's an epic masterpiece , and should have a higher spot on the top 250 . The acting is magnificent , the cinematography for its time was ( and still is ) truly wonderful , and the screenplay is marvelous . Some say that it's more of a womens film . But nah , I don't think so . It may be a bit on the side to some of slow paced , and overdramatic , but to films buffs like me , this is a magnificent film . stars -
One of the best films of its kind	I love movies like this . Theatre-styled motion pictures driven by dialog versus action . Get a few guys together in a room , watch them talk - - I have a soft spot for this stuff . I have ever since I can remember . Some of my favorite films are character-driven ones : " The Hustler , " " The Big Kahuna , " " Midnight Run , " " Planes , Trains & Automobiles . " At first glance this list seems skeptical - - but basically all these films follow the same central theme : clever dialog , character interaction and evolution , and depth . " Glengarry Glen Ross " is one of the best of the genre . Scripted by David Mamet , the dialog never hits and weak patches - - it is realistic , extremely fun to listen to , and the actors all deliver flawless performances . Al Pacino finally finds the perfect role to let himself vent ( as he started to do in " Scent of a Woman " the same year , and won an Oscar for - - he deserved it more for this ) . Pacino has some great one-liners and quips , but he never seems too broad to find believable . Jack Lemmon is similarly impressive , in what he called one of his favorite films of his entire career . Lemmon abandoned his comedic roots for this drama and it paid off - - he's not only an excellent funnyman , but a great actor . Kevin Spacey , Ed Harris , and Alec Baldwin fill out the rest of the cast and all do very well ; especially Baldwin in a brief cameo . I've never had much consideration for Baldwin as an actor , but his five minutes ' worth of screen time here reminded me that when he's good , he really IS good ! Overall " Glengarry Glen Ross " is not only one of my favorite films of the genre but also a solid movie by any means . If you aren't bored by movies in which people talk instead of running around defusing bombs , you'll probably really get a kick out of this .
This is some of the best quality in both cartoon , film noir , and family entertainment in years - and maybe even decades . . .	The hints at Bogart and the winks towards classic film noirs are routinely expected - but " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " rises above this all , and becomes something more than just another " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " ( a funny paraody but not exactly memorable ) , by employing something never seen before in film noirs : What appear to be living , breathing cartoons . That's right , cartoons . Seamlessly inserted frame-by-frame into the film are actual cartoon characters who interact with humans like nothing you have ever seen before - the quality of animation and interaction far surpasses such role models as " Mary Poppins " or " Songs of the South " - this is some of the best quality in both cartoon , film noir , and family entertainment in years - and maybe even decades . Though modern CGI presents wonderous images on-screen , it can also prevent quality from reaching through the celluloid - the feeling that what you are seeing has not just been splashed together messily , but has been shown unmistakable , painstakingly tiresome attention , detail and respect . Something like " The Matrix , " though visually dazzling , could never be done as well in cartoon format ( can you just imagine Keanu Reeves soaring through the air fully animated ? ) , and something like the animation in " Who Framed Roger Rabbit , " though visually dazzling , could never be used in a film like " The Matrix . " Sometimes CGI can make one feel as if the process of getting what you are witnessing on the screen onto the screen was too easy for the filmmakers . How often did you step back from something like " Bulletproof Monk " and admire its beauty and magnificence ? Something like the animation in " Roger Rabbit " has quality , you can feel it , it almost invigorates you . Every single frame of this film had to be edited , and cartoonists had to draw in cartoon characters by hand . 82 , 000 frames of video in " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " were shown adamant attention - can you say the same thing about " The Lord of the Rings " ? " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " went through about forty different script drafts , its villain once had a pet parrot named Vultar , and the five weasels seen at various points in the film used to be seven , named Greasy , Sleazy , Weazy , Smartguy ( originally Smarta$$ ) , Slimy , and so on . But it doesn't really show - there don't seem to be many flaws . Technically there are little , and plotwise there are little . It is a well-rounded film . The plot may be pointless to indulge in , but here we go . After an amusing setup involving a cartoon , the audience is suddenly thrown into a new reality so suddenly you almost have to do a double take . We are left aghast , shown an alternate Hollywood in 1947 - one alive with cartoons , or " toons , " as everyone in the film calls them . ( After all , don't we make nicknames for races ? Whites , blacks ? Wouldn't the same be appropriate for cartoon characters if you had to repeat their species or race over and over as part of a daily routine ? ) In this alternate Hollywood , the cartoons have their own little place to live appropriately titled Toontown . It is the type of place where Walt Disney would have felt at home , as this alternate world leaps off the screen with comic liveliness and joy . But some of these toon inhabitants of Toontown have broadened out , leaving and going to work for Hollywood ( one character in the film says , " That Goofy is a genius ! " ) . Maroon Cartoons is a big business in this alternate Hollywood , producing Baby Herman cartoons that co-star the jittery Roger Rabbit , perfectly and comically voiced by Charles Fleischer . Roger is a 100 % toon . After being handcuffed to a gruff detective named Eddie Valiant ( Bob Hoskins ) and after Roger is then dragged to an area where Valiant can remove the cuffs with a saw , Valiant tells Roger to sit still , and so Roger squeezes out of the coughs . " You mean you could have done that all along ? " asks Eddie . " No ! " says Roger . " Only when it's funny ! " Parts of what make " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " tick so in-tune , with perfect harmony , is that it is never obnoxious - Roger is not a stupid comic sidekick . He's a lovable cartoon character that could - and almost did - spin off an entire franchise based upon him . British Bob Hoskins fakes a great American accent . Director Robert Zemeckis ( " Back to the Future " ) gives a great film noir approach to the film . The animation is perfectly seamless . And the movie is funny . One of the things that struck me with wonder upon watching " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " ( along with the splendid animation and acting and direction and film noir ) , was that various competing cartoon characters were used in the film . In a shadowy bar Daffy Duck and Donald Duck perform a violent piano duel ; soaring through the air with parashoots are Disney and Warner Bros . ' most famous characters , Mickey Mouse and Bugs Bunny . And get this - not only are they in the same film , or even in the same frame together , but they talk to each other . How amazing is that ? We will probably never witness competing cartoon characters , from a broad range of years , in the same film with each other ever again . I've never quite seen anything like " Who Framed Roger Rabbit , " and we probably never will again . stars - John Ulmer
The terror . The music . The actors . The dialogue . THE SHARK !	The terror . The music . The actors . The dialogue . THE SHARK ! Those elements sparked a newfound interest in the nature vs . man genre back in 1975 when " Jaws " was first released . It follows the story of a man named Brody ( Roy Scheider ) , the sherriff in a pleasant little town named Amity , which is seated right by the ocean . Nothing ever happens in Amity . It is the same little routine every day for Brody . Wake up , go to work , come home , go to bed , wake up , go to work , etc . . . But all that changes in one moment of disbelief . But after some vicious incidents occur in the water outside his town and home , Brody investigates and finds that the killings were no boating accidents , but shark attacks . After calling in marine biologist Matt Harper ( Richard Dreyfuss ) and hiring a mysterious man named Quint ( Robert Shaw ) , Brody takes to the seas to hunt for the Great White Shark . . . and defeat it . Steven Spielberg got his big break directing this film . It brought him to fame and he since went on to create many more popular movies , including " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " and such . But it is his direction that makes this film's tension work so well . Granted , the reason the shark was never shown was because the fake shark robots wouldn't work , but even if they had shown the shark in the beginning , Spielberg still does good here . John Williams ' score is quite possibly one of the best film scores ever performed , ranking right up there with " Psycho " and Alan Silvestri's " Back to the Future " theme . It is moving , frightening , and all around completely emotional . The thing that is most impressive about the score is that it revolves around a few keys on a piano being hit over and over and over again . Roy Scheider quite possibly gives his best performance ever in this film . He has dropped out of the limelight lately , not being in any films as of recent ; but everyone will remember his performance as Brody in this film . Always . Richard Dreyfuss is also at the top of his game here . I think it is interesting to note that like Scheider , Dreyfuss has not been in many films recently . Maybe it's post - " Jaws " effect . I'm not sure . But I know that the only time I've seen a performance as good as his in this film was a little comedy with Bill Murray called " What About Bob , " which is an excellent comedy . I read the novel " Jaws " by Peter Benchley , and it is one of the few novels where the movie is better . Benchley lost my interest halfway through the book when he stopped talking about the shark at all . He introduces it in the beginning , and uses it a little at the end , but most of the story is all about character development and has nothing to do whatsoever with a great white . That is what is so nice about the film . It keeps character development going while keeping interest in - and not letting the audience forget about - the shark out in the water . All in all , " Jaws " is one of the best films ever made . It easily combines horror , comedy , thriller , mystery , comedy and drama into one little bundle called a film . It's a masterfully crafted thriller that never stops delivering . stars - John Ulmer
A great film with wonderful performances - a minor quibble about historical accuracy aside	" Inherit the Wind " is based upon the infamous Scopes Monkey Trial of 1925 . John T . Scopes , a teacher from Tennessee , was caught spreading the theory of evolution in his classroom . He was taken to court and prosecuted by the highly-respected William Jennings Bryan , an ex-Presidential candidate and popular religious figure , renowned for his fundamentalist views of the Bible . In an astonishing turn of events , defense attorney Clarence Darrow called Bryan to the stand during the trial and quizzed him on Biblical literalism . It set back fundamentalism for a few years as Bryan walked away looking the fool . However , in my opinion - after reading transcripts - the entire process was a bit unfair , as were some of the accusations brought forth by Darrow , whose sole purpose was to gain a reaction out of Bryan by mocking his religious beliefs . Prosecution still won the case , however , since Scopes was on trial for teaching evolution - and in the end , the fact was that he did . In the film , which is loosely based on the actual events of the Scopes Monkey Trial , Spencer Tracey plays Darrow in the form of Henry Drummond , an educated man who thinks fundamentalism is a joke . Matthew Harrison Brady ( Fredric March ) is based on William Jennings Bryan . Stanley Kramer's direction is excellent , the b & w photography is superb and the performances are great . However , my only problem with this film is that it clearly has an agenda - to make a mockery of fundamentalism , Bryan and the entire trial . A LOT of facts are fooled around with - Tracey's character is turned into a smart , educated guy and Brady ( played by March ) is a gluttonous , prejudiced redneck . Tracey gets all the good lines in the script , making March's character look like an utter imbecile - and a thoroughly despicable character . The real trial wasn't quite so one-sided . Although Bryan was certainly left looking worse off between the two of them , the trial never become so heated nor was it as smooth and clever on Darrow's behalf as it is for Tracey in the film . ( I'm particularly speaking about the climax of the film . ) It's an early case of Hollywood taking " creative liberties " - it is a very , very good film ; but it's also kind of hard to ignore the blatant bias of the movie . It's not that I am offended by the film because I am a Christian zealot or whatever else other criticizers of this aspect of the film have been called - I just don't like ANY religious group , or historical figures , made out to look like fools when in reality it wasn't exactly so convenient . Other than a few minor quibbles about historical accuracies , " Inherit the Wind " is a great film . The performances alone make it worth seeing , and the direction is very good .
Gripping study of addiction	Otto Preminger's " The Man with the Golden Arm " is a reference to heroin addiction - something that must have been rather risky to film back in 1955 , fifty years ago ( the censors today STILL have a problem with drug content in films ! ) . The lead role was originally offered to Marlon Brando , then snatched by Frank Sinatra before Brando could respond . Sinatra convincingly portrays a pro card dealer and ex-heroin addict who returns home to the city only to find himself battling the demons of temptation . Preminger is one of my favorite directors ( his " Anatomy of a Murder " starring James Stewart is a brilliant and revolutionary courtroom drama ) . Preminger pretty much helped change the face of cinema back in the ' 50s - " Anatomy of a Murder " was extremely controversial when it came out due to both its plot and content ( references to rape , women's " panties , " seduction , etc . ) and " The Man with the Golden Arm " deals with a topic that is equally volatile . However , Preminger pulls it off without becoming exploitative . This is like a forerunner to " The Panic in Needle Park " ( 1971 ) and bears more than a few similarities in terms of general motifs to the classic Billy Wilder movie " Lost Weekend , " starring Ray Milland . These three films in particular are probably the best movies about alcoholism predating the 1980s and still remain relevant today .
A very good film ; it surprised me very much when I saw it in the theater , even if it is inferior to the 2003 sequel . . .	I'm not a huge comic book fan , so I went to see " X-Men " in 2000 with hesitation . I was blown away . Bryan Singer ( " The Usual Suspects " ) introduces non-fans to the world of the X-Men extraordinarily , while still implementing references to the series for the die hard fans . What separates this from a lot of other comic book films is that the mix of fantasy and reality makes the film more than what it could have been - - a corny remake of a comic book / television show . Singer's choice to make the X-Men part of this world , and his decision to have a backdrop of anti-mutation rallies , is really what makes this film great . And Hugh Jackman as Wolverine is pitch-perfect ! Never would have guessed he was an Aussie ! And he seems like a genuinely nice guy in person , too ! Inferior to the 2003 sequel , " X2 , " but a must-see for an introduction to a world within our world . Re-launched the comic book films we've been seeing lately ( " Spider-Man , " " Daredevil " ) and is the rare series that is almost guaranteed to have better sequels as it comes along . This is just the beginning ! stars . ( X2 : stars . ) - John Ulmer
A touching , heartfelt celebration of life - - totally non-Lynch and yet , at the same time , very much so	I hadn't heard of " The Straight Story " at all , really , and was shocked to see it on the Top 250 listed as a David Lynch G-rated movie . Not only that - - it was a true story ! It's one of Lynch's better films in my opinion . As kind of a flip-side to Blue Velvet , it is a celebration of America rather than an exposure . I saw it a few nights ago and found myself moved and alienated at the same time - similar , actually , to The Elephant Man . I think the way Lynch creates a feeling of detachment , while still evoking a lot of subtle emotion , in both these movies is particularly effective . It's strange , but not just for the sake of being so . Richard Farnsworth ( RIP ) is excellent in the film . Sissy Spacek is rather annoying - - but the character calls for it , I suppose . We also get a small role at the end by the great Harry Dean Stanton , playing Farnsworth's estranged brother . Farnsworth committed suicide shortly after the movie's release and it's strange to watch this knowing it was his last film , because the general theme of the movie - - old-age , the acceptance of death and the search for affirmation - - is made all the more significant and haunting . In a way , a very eerie , unsettling movie - - but also a beautifully photographed , wonderfully directed character piece and an ode to life - - which is really out of the norm considering it's a Lynch film .
" Casino Royale " really is the best Bond film since " Goldfinger " . . .	And as a more serious and darker sort of film , dare I say it's superior . Of course , " Goldfinger " was the greatest mix of the Bond formula : outlandish but serious ; funny but deadly ; beautiful girls and iconic villains . Casino is a bit more down-to-earth apart from a ridiculous opening ( which made some of the scenes in " Die Another Day " look downright plausible ) . It's definitely a product of its times and is really nothing like most of the previous Bond films . It makes fun of a lot of the previous clichés : " Do I look like I give a damn ? ! " when asked whether he wants his drink shaken or stirred ; and then making fun of innuendo-names such as Pussy Galore in another scene when he jests that his female co-operative should use the alias " Mrs . Broadchest . " It makes the others all look like comedic spins on similar material . Kind of like the difference between Burton's Batman and Nolan's . Burton's were more joyous and campy - whereas Nolan's was a dark , stirring vision . Ditto here . Craig is very good . I enjoyed Brosnan in the role for the types of films he was making , but apart from GoldenEye I thought his Bond movies were dire . The last was terrible - Halle Berry and face-shifting villains and invisible cars ? Bleh . Craig matches Connery in terms of the way he approaches the character . The only real flaw is that Craig is not exactly what one would call a typical leading man , looks-wise - so when he walks around getting flirtatious attention from women in the movie it does seem strange . This isn't knocking his acting abilities , but part of the icon that is James Bond involves his renowned handsome looks - and Craig looks more like one of the previous film's Czech villains . But forget that - he nailed the actual character , and turned all the other portrayals since Connery's into utter jokes . Compare Roger Moore to the dark , edgy personality in this film - the difference is striking . Anyway , I really enjoyed it . It's the best Bond in about forty years , give or take . I really grew tired with the past few Bond films and thought they had hit a dead-end trying to keep up with the overblown action spectacles like xXx - but this is a great return to form and , surprise surprise , one of the best pictures of ' 06 - a remarkable achievement considering what series this film is from . Not often do any Bond films make the critics ' top ten lists , but according to the website RottenTomatoes . com , Casino Royale received better reviews than The Departed . The ending , by the way , was simply great . I will be very interested to see where this series is taken in the future .
Has the Disney magic	The Lion King was the best Disney film of 1994 , and perhaps for a few years after . We all know Disney's been hashing up cheap tricks for kids-dumb sequels like Lady and the Tramp 2 , Cinderella 2 , all that stuff recently . But the Lion King was great , and the all star cast including : Rowan Atkinson , Matthew Broderick , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeremy Irons and James Earl Jones really help this film too ! Great animation , story , and characters . The Lion King's a great film ! STARS-JOHN ULMER
You'll laugh until you cry	Robin Williams used to be a very unique talent ( as far as comedy goes ) - and his standup was great . But it seems the awkward shift from comedy films to dramas like " Dead Poet's Society , " " Awakenings " and " Good Will Hunting " - no matter how good they may have been - severely altered the public perception and he became something else . Twenty years after his last performance on Broadway , Robin returns once again for his best standup routine - ever . As disappointing as his recent cinematic comedic endeavours may be , this proves he's still got it - at least as far as standup goes . He spits out the jokes faster than you could imagine . He careens from one to the next and before you have the time to stop and laugh at one , he's launching into another . Each time you think you've found a new favorite joke in the program , he tops it . One reviewer on an external site said it's some type of " fake controversy " - an old , expired comic pretending to be daring when he's really just under the cover of HBO . Whatever - all I know is that this is hilarious , and really raunchy . The last joke - an extended bit revolving around the topic of a sexual act - is absolutely hysterical and the entire audience can hardly control themselves . If you like Robin Williams , you'll love this . If you don't like Robin Williams - the actor we've come to known through cinema - you'll definitely love this , because it shows a very different side to a man many people consider to be spoiled milk in the comedy-film biz .
One of the year's best films , and Scorsese's best work in over a decade .	Not just one of the year's best films , but also Martin Scorsese's best work in over a decade , The Departed is a vintage slice of the director's style infused with a modern edge . A loose remake of the Hong Kong three-part thriller Internal Affairs , The Departed is hardly an inferior Hollywood copy ; Scorsese takes the material and makes it entirely his own . Opening with a classy flashback and then leaping forward with a ferocious act of violence on-screen , this is as well paced and energetic as anything Scorsese has done in well over a decade ; not since Casino has he made something so fresh and riveting . The movie , which takes place in Boston , features an interweaving story headlined by a stellar cast . Billy Costigan ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) is a troubled cop who goes deep undercover to bring down notorious mobster Frank Costello ( Jack Nicholson ) , who has control of the police force through several moles ; one of whom ( played by Matt Damon ) begins to suspect someone in Frank's operation is a rat . As he races to expose Billy , he loses the affection of his girlfriend , who begins to ? oddly enough ? embark on an affair with Billy ( she's a police psychiatrist ) . Supporting castmembers include Martin Sheen , Alec Baldwin and Mark Wahlberg in his best performance since Boogie Nights . The plot twists and turns so many times yet never becomes pretentious or overly deliberate ; it all seems to connect very naturally , and perhaps the only portion of the film that I didn't quite buy was the romantic subplot , which would have worked if it had focused solely on Damon's tensions with his girlfriend , but became fairly unbelievable once she begins cheating on him with DiCaprio's character . The performances are extraordinary ? Jack Nicholson has a lot of fun with his role and comes across as a psychopathic comedian trapped in a mob boss ' body . DiCaprio is riveting and delivers the most convincing performance of them all ? evoking a young De Niro towards the end of the picture in both mannerisms and physicality . Directorially this is Scorsese's strongest effort in years , and it shows in every frame of the picture . It may not be groundbreaking and it may not be as socially relevant as some of the director's best works , but as pure entertainment this ranks as some of his finest to date .
The pilot for one of the best television shows of all-time	I just got done watching episode two of the second season of " Curb Your Enthusiasm " ; the one in which Larry is mistakenly taken for a sexual " deviant , " after his wife is misled into thinking he has sexual fetishes . It's the best episode I've seen . Coming back to the one-hour-long HBO pilot for the series , " Larry David : Curb Your Enthusiasm , " the humor is just as strong . It's not exactly like the series and is more like a " mockumentary " - with interviews from the cast of " Seinfeld , " etc . - but it's just as funny . I actually read somewhere that this wasn't intended as a television show pilot , but based on its success it spawned the series . I'm not sure , but I do know that " Curb Your Enthusiasm " is one of the best television shows out there , and this was a great way of introducing the concept to viewers .
Another overblown Jerry Bruckheimer-produced action flick to rival " The Rock " !	As an aircraft full of murderers , rapists and criminals pulls away into the air , a rope attached to the tail of the beast catches on a convertible's front bumper , pulling the car upwards where it flies into the air , and sways back and forth , as the plane picks up altitude . " On any other day , that might look strange , " Cameron Poe ( Nicolas Cage ) says as he stares out the back of the plane and watches with exasperation . Cameron is having a strange day , indeed . The film begins eight years prior to the present . Cameron returns home from the Military to his pregnant wife , who is being harassed by a band of drunken idiots where she works at the town bar . Shrugging them off , Cameron and his wife are both assaulted by the men when they make a dash for their car in the rainfall outside the place . Defending his wife , Cameron kills the men and is sentenced to 7 - 10 years in prison . Because he is a trained government weapon , his murder charges are a bit different than those of other criminals . Because he knows how to kill more than most people , he is given a longer sentence . If the point of this is to make the audience wonder why in the world the justice system works like this , it has achieved its goal . Flash forward eight years , and Cameron is finally getting parole . Hitching a ride back to his wife on a plane with a band of ruthless criminals , Cameron expects nothing less than a pleasant ride . But when " Sirus the Virus " ( John Malkovich ) takes over the plane with his buddy ( Ving Rhames ) , everything goes wrong . Cameron is suddenly an undercover hero . Back on land , a U . S . Marshal played by John Cusack thinks something is wrong . When he finds aircraft blueprints lodged in Sirus ' old prison cell , he realizes that the plane could be in trouble . Cameron solidifies the marshal's suspicions when he alerts everyone on ground ( in secret ) that the plane has been taken over . He also tells them where it's going to be landing . The movie's grand finale - - in which the plane lands on a Las Vegas strip - - is silly but fun . The film is a Jerry Bruckheimer production that rivals " The Rock . " Very similar , it's an over-the-top action extravaganza with big explosions , a " Die Hard " - esque plot , and a surprisingly large human quotient in the mix . It's one of the best action films of the past decade ; the type of film all the pale imitators always try to be , and few ever come so close to actually being . Nicolas Cage , who in fact starred in " The Rock , " is often picked on for bad acting . I like him . Here he provides a sort of gentle hero to the film , more realistic than Stallone would be , not quite as funny as Arnie , but somewhere in between both of them . He was absolutely fabulous in " Adaptation " ( 2002 ) , and also in " Leaving Las Vegas , " for which he won an Oscar . I'm one of his bigger fans . He doesn't disappoint here . John Malkovich is great as the villain . Something about the man has always seemed strange , and he's good at playing oddball serial killers and baddies . Malkovich was creepy and effective in Clint Eastwood's thriller " In the Line of Fire , " downright silly in " Johnny English , " lovable in " Of Mice and Men , " and here he's creepy again . My favorite character in the film has to be that played by Steve Buscemi , though . " He makes the Manson family look like the Partridge family , " someone tells Cameron . He went on a killing spree and murdered thirty people . He tells Cameron that one time he drove for three hours wearing a little girl's head as a hat . " Feel free not to share with me , " Cameron tells him . In other cases , Buscemi's character might seem totally evil . Here he's funny , though , because the film makes us think he's murdered again after the plane lands to re-fuel , and then we find out he hasn't when we see his potential victim waving at the plane as it takes off again . That makes him a " good guy . " It's all contrivances in the script , but it works . Just like the film . stars . - John Ulmer
Contains some of the best and most invigorating editing you'll ever see	F For Fake is Orson Welles having a lot of fun . But it is also an example of the power of effective editing ? simply put , this is some of the most impressive technical cutting , swiping , panning , scanning , freeze-framing and elaborating ever put on film . It moves quicker than any other Welles film , and in fact according to the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum in his excellent Criterion Collection essay , Welles had purposely tried to separate this from his typical directorial style . The result is a film showcasing the limitless possibilities of passionate film-making ? Welles was clearly in love with his material , and it shows in every frame . An entire year was allegedly spent just editing this film , and the time was well spent . The rest of the film is just as unique ? nothing like this has been done before or since . Welles called it a " new " type of movie-making : a mixture of documentary and essay . It opens with Welles performing a simple magic trick ; the camera is all around him , barely allowing audiences any time to follow what's happening . Soon Welles begins to narrate the movie , but ( and this is what really separates it from most documentaries ) there is a decidedly theatrical quality to the proceedings . Welles chronicles the true story of the famous art forger Elmyr de Hory ( as well as his official biographer and future fraud , Clifford Irving , who penned the Howard Hughes autobiography - that - wasn't - really - an - autobiography ) , but it doesn't feel like a documentary at all . If you do not share Welles ' passion for the subject of fraud and deception ( he even recaps his own infamous War of the Worlds broadcast which nearly cost him his job at RKO ) , this may be a bit tiring to sit through . As one reviewer noted , it's Welles at his most personal , and this is both good and bad ? good because Welles is so gleeful and joyous that it's totally infectious and , if you let yourself , it's easy to be caught up in the free flow of the film . But the bad part of this is that Welles allows himself to dabble in vices ? he devotes the opening credits to shots of his mistress Oja Kodar and her back-side as she walks around a Mediterranean city catching the glimpses of men everywhere . And the finale ? in which Welles tells an elaborate story about Kodar ? turns into a fun and well-edited - but extremely overlong ? verbal game between Welles and Kodar , preceded by an even more tiring sequence of Kodar once again walking around in provocative clothing , eventually shedding them and being captured on film in the nude by Welles for an extended length of time . And , also , as another commentator of the film has claimed , this is a movie riddled with 1970s film-making techniques ? many of which seem outdated today . Yet , despite its flaws , a lot of them work to the film's advantage in the long run . The freeze-frames may be outdated but they help the film to develop a very distinct style which , in turn , enhances the amazing editing job . If not for anything else , see F For Fake simply because it contains some of the best editing you'll ever see in your life . If you are a fan of Welles or share his love for the topic of deception , you'll find this to be a very enjoyable and fun little detour . It was Welles ' last true finished film before his death and it seems somewhat fitting that he'd sign his departure with a project such as this : one crafted from deep passion and filled with joy and wit and wonder .
Overall , " The Jerk " is one of the most original , wacky , and wild and crazy ( Martin reference intended ) comedies ever . See it for laughs , plain and simple .	The Jerk - Country : US Language : English Year : 1979 Rating : R Director : Carl Reiner Starring : Steve Martin , Bernadette Peters , Mable King , M . Emmet WalshREVIEW BY JOHN ULMERSteve Martin had basically gained a burst of fame before starring in Carl Reiner's wacky comedy " The Jerk . " Martin was fresh off hosting " Saturday Night Live " a few times , and had made a few albums and stand-up gigs . But " The Jerk " is what established him as an on-screen comedian . Martin plays a lame-brain fool , who lives with his family on a plantation farm . Only one problem . His family is black , he is white . After coming to facts about his racial status , Martin flees from the scene and heads for the downtown gig . He is suckered out of - and into - many things throughout the film . Not as much of because he is innocent as he is dumb , however . Unlike comedies like " Blast From the Past " where the main character is treated bad and doesn't realize it because he / she is innocent and has no idea what to expect from life , Martin gets treated bad and doesn't realize it because he is stupid , not only because he is innocent . The Jerk starts out working at a gas station . Some of the funniest scenes occur here . One , is when a madman with a sniper rifle is shooting at Martin and misses . Martin , being The Jerk , thinks the man is purposely shooting at paint cans . He says , " Hey ! It's the cans ! He must hate the cans ! Stay away from the cans ! " Another is when he gets a home . . . living in a bathroom . ( " Like it ? I LOVE it ! " ) And one that has always gotten my funnybone is when Martin looks in a phone book and sees his name . " I'm a person now ! " He yells . This is true , of course . All of us feel like more than just skin after seeing our names printed somewhere . I recall first seeing my name as a reviewer on Rotten Tomatoes . It feels great to have your name written somewhere , because you know that someone , somewhere , saw that name and put it in . Someone read one of my movie reviews . Though Martin's character takes it to a new extreme , it is nevertheless true . When you sign your name on a document , the document becomes active and real . So why should it not be the same with Martin's character ? Perhaps while he is a jerk , he is at the same time smart . Nah , he's just stupid . " The Jerk " carved a place for itself in history . I had really never seen any comedy like it before . " Airplane " was released the same year , and the humor was much the same , as well as the editing ( see below ) , but I saw " The Jerk " first , and it was an odd surprise . The humor is by itself . It is so odd and original that it makes it one of the best . Martin went on to make the less-successful " The Man with Two Brains , " also directed by Reiner . The film is much the same , but does not work to the same degree . Too many jokes fall flat . Unlike " The Jerk , " where the jokes start to fall flat in the middle and pick up again at the end , " The Man with Two Brains " had its hit-and-misses almost the whole way through . It was a fine comedy , but not great at all . Steve Martin brings his character to life . He is one of the absolute dumbest , innocent , naive individuals I have ever seen on screen . But what makes him work so well is Martin . Martin behind it all . But the thing is , Martin dissolves himself completely into character . He is so stupid that you can't help but laugh . In " The Naked Gun " ( 1988 ) Leslie Nielsen used a dumb character and played him smart , deadpan , serious . Like everything he was saying and doing was normal . Martin does the same , but in a different way . He doesn't play him deadpan and smart . He plays a dumb character dumb , having no idea what he is saying and doing is wrong . And another interesting aspect is that even though Martin disguises himself as The Jerk , we can still see Martin shining through . Martin can play versatile actors ( see " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " - 1987 ) , but Martin is still inside . We can see him shining through . That is why Steve Martin is one of my favorite comedians . He can envelop his character , yet at the same time keep the Martin charm . That's why I can usually expect solid laughs from a Martin vehicle . Director Carl Reiner does a few out-of-place cuts in " The Jerk , " just like he did in " The Man with Two Brains , " but I think that it worked overall . Part of what makes this movie so funny and goofy is how the editing is so odd . So many scenes are out of place and pay nothing to the film . But like I said , that is what makes it so original and stupid . The film loses some steam halfway through , and the jokes sometimes fall flat , but overall the comedy is one of the best of its genre . I would say it is Martin's best comedy , but that spot is saved for " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " which co-stars John Candy . THAT movie is Steve Martin's best , and always will be . Overall , " The Jerk " is one of the most original , wacky , and wild and crazy ( Martin reference intended ) comedies ever . See it for laughs , plain and simple .
Groovy ! A lot of fun , even if it's not a masterpiece or anything	A spawn of the same cult film pool as such diverse projects as " The Goonies " and " Donnie Darko , " the " Evil Dead " series is similarly one popularized ( and yes , to some extent overrated ) by its endless legion of fans , most of whom were teenagers when the originals came out , and are now in their twenties and thirties . Each film separated by six years , " Evil Dead , Evil Dead II and Army of Darkness " ( or " Medieval Dead " as some fans enjoy referring to it as ) all certainly hold a certain low-budget fanbase appeal . None of them did very well financially , at least not in theaters ( particularly the third , which had the largest budget and flopped on initial release ) , but the same can be said for " Donnie Darko , " the " flop " of 2001 that went on to do very well on video and has played continually at midnight showings across America , enticing new fans every day . " Evil Dead II : Dead by Dawn " stars Bruce Campbell as the returning Ash , the hapless hero who visits a remote wilderness cabin with his girlfriend only to inadvertently unleash the Deadites from another world . After his girlfriend is possessed and murdered by one of the demons , Ash finds himself fending for his life in the cabin and enduring endless physical pain . This is a film set free of logic , cohesion , and reality . Ash murders his possessed girlfriend but never really seems to mourn his loss . Soon he's cutting off his own hand and doesn't really seem to miss it very much in the following scenes ( he replaces it with a chainsaw ? a clever idea that nevertheless is totally and utterly ridiculous ) . If I cut off my hand , I might be sort of upset , but not Ash ? he doesn't really seem to mind , and it doesn't seem to hurt him very much , either , as he immediately wraps it in a bandage ( which must have a magical effect , because blood never stains through the fabric ) . Furthermore , Ash never seems to fear death from blood loss , or the fact that when he returns to civilization , he might have a hard time convincing local authorities that he's not responsible for the murder of his girlfriend and the visitors who show up midway through the film and all proceed to quickly die painful deaths at the hands of the Deadites . No matter . That's not the point of this film . " Evil Dead II " is pure fun , and nothing more . With this in mind , its strong fanbase comes across as being rather intimidating ? visiting any " Evil Dead " message board will reveal some people who seem to thrive on this film , daily reciting quotes , acting out scenes , and dreaming up scenarios for the ( pending ) sequel " Army of Darkness II . " That begs the question : Is " Evil Dead II " really deserving of its critical and public acclaim ? Having been referenced by Jack Black in " High Fidelity " as the film you must see in order to stray away from devolving into a " movie idiot , " " Evil Dead II " is a fun experience with a charismatic , energetic lead performance and a clever and witty script . Before I saw " EDII , " Black's recommendation in " High Fidelity " ( " ? there's so much blood ! " ) was a joke - - a parody of the macho male " action , sex , nudity , loud music " attitude . After having seen " Evil Dead II " I realize that Black was right - - the blood and guts really do make it worth seeing ? they almost become a punch line to the joke , such as when a body is dragged into a fruit cellar by a demon and a spew of excessive fake red water drenches the heroine as the corpse is churned into a million pieces . So , no , it's not a masterpiece and it probably isn't quite deserving of its strong reputation . It's that type of movie , where you kind of enjoy it for the cheese factor ? and don't try to heavily criticize its flaws , because to do that would be way too easy . And obvious . The film is more of a remake than a sequel , recapping the events of the first film , dropping three characters , and generally picking up somewhere in the middle . For example in the original " Evil Dead " Ash stumbles upon the Book of the Dead , and he does so again in this movie . Many events are totally re-filmed as if they never occurred . It's a rare beast of a sequel ? somewhere oddly in between continuation and smug self-parody . I personally prefer the original " Evil Dead " if only because I find the horror elements stronger and the " comedy " far less goofy ( if there are even any traces of comedy in the original at all ) . " Evil Dead II " goes a bit too far sometimes ? the dancing furniture is lame , for example . However , no one can say this series lacks originality . Instead of presenting us with a banal representation of the original film , director Sam Raimi reunites with Campbell and creates a whole new beast ? packed with excessive physical humor ( think : ultra-violent Three Stooges on a macabre level ) , self-parody , tongue-in-cheek humor , and what Campbell himself described as " splatstick " comedy . On top of that , Campbell is much better here than he was in the original ( where he seemed to be a pale shade and more cowardly version of the typical action hero persona ) ? Ash is still somewhat of a coward but Campbell lends his character a great sense of irony here that if anything only establishes Ash as one of cinema's most iconic characters . Overall , " Evil Dead II " is a really fun ride , with a superior performance from Campbell . It may not be on the same level as the original in terms of horror or just general enjoyment , but it's still a blast . Groovy , baby !
An effective , well-acted and visually stimulating art-house movie - the forgotten masterpiece of Francis Ford Coppola	They say art films died out in the ' 80s , and they also say Francis Ford Coppola sold out after " Apocalypse Now , " but this is truthfully his last visionary film . It may not be a flawless masterpiece on the same level as the aforementioned movie or " The Godfather , " or even " The Conversation " ( one of his absolute best ) , but it's still very good - beautiful to look at , poetic , and visually stimulating . It was the second film he released in 1983 adapted from an S . E . Hinton book . His first ( " The Outsiders " ) was cleaner than this . " Rumble Fish " has a lot of violence , a lot of swearing , and a decent amount of sex / nudity . It is the flip side to " The Outsiders " ; and in my opinion , the more mature work of the two ( although both are very good ) . Matt Dillon gives his best performance as Rusty James , a 1950s street punk whose alcoholic father has all but walked out on him , and whose older brother ( an enigmatic figure known only as The Motorcycle Boy ) has left and moved to California some time ago . We are led to infer that The Motorcycle Boy was a sort of rebel hero - a type of Robin Hood , as Rusty James says - and the entire town loves him . As a result , Rusty James " can't live up to his brother's reputation . . . and his brother can't live it down , " to quote the film's tagline . But The Motorcycle Boy returns one day in the form of Mickey Rourke . He rescues his kid brother from a violent underground fight with a group of thugs and takes him back to the safety of their home . The Motorcycle Boy has come back in order to make amends , one supposes ; or at least because he feels as if he has an obligation to see his father and brother again . Meanwhile , Rusty James - in a desperate intent to match his brother's reputation - continues his downward spiral of street fights and violence , resulting in more than a few bloody brawls . " Rumble Fish " is displayed in grainy black-and-white , and the soundtrack itself is surreal , often featuring fragments of distorted audio matched with hazy visuals . At first it doesn't seem to make sense , but then it is revealed that The Motorcycle Boy has a hearing problem that comes and goes at random ( typically when he is under stress ) - and is colorblind , which explains the b & w photography . This is a great decision by Coppola because it gives the film an authentic feeling ; at first , we feel as if we are following Rusty James ' plight , but then once we pull back it becomes obvious we are watching through the eyes of The Motorcycle Boy himself . Coppola's experimentation with color in a few shots is something we're only now seeing take form again in movies like " Sin City " ( which also featured Rourke ) . " Schindler's List " had a few moments of color and b & w , too , but it wasn't as frequent . The performances are excellent . An all-star cast includes not only Dillon and Rourke but also Diane Lane ( who was also in " The Outsiders " with Dillon ) , Dennis Hopper , Diana Scywid , Vincent Spano and Nicolas Cage . Dillon's performance is key to the film because essentially this is his story , but it's being narrated to a certain effect by The Motorcycle Boy ( at least insofar that it's his problems taking form in the narrative ) - and Rourke gives a terrific performance . His moody , quiet embodiment of The Motorycle Boy leaves a lasting impression ; his character comes across as a somber , reflective and ultimately regretful man who made bad decisions in his past and now wants to protect his brother from the same thing . It is implied that he may even have become a mail hustler on the streets of CA ; his persistence to not tell any details of his adventure , and the fact that he sees a photo of himself posing in front of a bike ( " taken by a guy in California , " he tells his brother ) in a magazine , and then asks Rusty James not to tell anyone , could be perceived as such . Or maybe not . It all depends on how far you want to look into it . " Rumble Fish " may not be Francis Ford Coppola's best film , but it is one of his most sadly underrated movies and is probably worth mentioning in a list of the best films of the 1980s . In a decade where American art-house seemed to be a lost thought , " Rumble Fish " stands out as one of the few .
Studies the man behind the mask instead of the bat-nipples and gloss .	" Batman " is all about a man who battles his enemies and inner demons . It's about fear , acceptance , morality and reality : Batman is not a superhero , contrary to popular belief . He doesn't have extraordinary powers . He's human , physically and emotionally . That is why Batman has always appealed to me , and I imagine many others feel the same way . I don't read comics , so I can't be one of the many angry fans who claim Tim Burton's 1989 adaptation was poor ; but as a film , it didn't really focus on the psychological aspects of the story , so I can see their point . Michael Keaton was an unconvincing Bruce Wayne ? he wasn't believable as a suave playboy or a ruthless billionaire . Jack Nicholson was fun as the Joker , the sets were gloriously dark and Gothic , but at its heart the film was as cold as its exterior . There was nothing of actual substance ? seen today the film is just an entertaining comic book-movie with good visual design that could have been better . The sequels came and went , none of them living up to the original , and the casket was sealed in 1998 with " Batman and Robin " ? considered by many to be one of the all-time worst films in existence . ( And I agree . ) The problem , I think , is that all these films ignored what is explored so proficiently in " Batman Begins : the fragmented mind of a billionaire who grew up under the constant shadow of his family's legacy , and never wanted to accept his reality ; a man who learns to hate crime ( and more specifically criminals ) after his parents are murdered before his eyes by a lowly street thug . Bruce Wayne is a fascist at heart ? but has enough moral fiber to resist devolving into an executioner . " That is the only thing that separates us from them , " Bruce says in " Batman Begins . " And that's something that the film latches on to ? amongst other topics ? and what makes it not only the best of the " Batman " movies , but also a great film by any standard . I admire the technical skill of this production . The fight scenes are fast and blurred ? I usually hate this , but it works well in " Batman Begins , " because we're meant to fear the unknown . Sounds are used to great effect . Cinematic ally , Batman becomes a movie monster on occasion ? the scene where a group of smugglers are picked off one-by-one in the darkness , with scattering sounds overhead and screams and gunshots piercing the silence , brings to mind Ridley Scott's " Alien . " In another segment , Batman questions Crane while he is on drugs , which results in some truly terrifying images that will shock children who are familiar with Batman as a flawless hero . I also like the fact that Christopher Nolan ? who admittedly does not prefer using modern special effects ? bases his film around the characters so much indeed that he uses very little CGI . Apart from a few action sequences and swarms of bats , most of " Batman Begins " is real , and that really impressed me . ( I do not like modern effects , either . ) I could tell the city was real , I could tell the Batmobile was real , and I could tell Batman was real . Remember the segment in " Batman and Robin " where they surf 30 , 000 feet above ground on pieces of an exploding rocket ship and look like cartoon characters ? There's none of that crap here . Bale is perfect as Batman , and the best yet , because he fits every aspect of the character ; he is believable as a smug , ruthless playboy . We can see him as a troubled young man haunted by his past and an unbearable sense of guilt . And in the suit , he looks confident without being comfortable ? he's still learning how to adapt . We can imagine how far he will progress in the sequels when , at the end of " Begins , " he has finally become the Batman we all know . The movie is grim like Burton's but more realistic , and not as glossy and perfect ; the suit is imperfect , Batman's technology and secrets are exposed , the Batmobile is ugly and efficient , and the bat cave was originally part of the underground railroad and doesn't have any gadgets or special super-duper display cases for the suits . ( I never did understand the point of encasing the Bat Suit in a special shiny glass container when no one was supposed to even see it except Bruce and Alfred . ) " Batman Begins " is to Burton's " Batman " what Burton's " Batman " was to the Adam West version . It's darker . It's surprising . It's better . This is the best " action " film of the summer ? one that doesn't favor CGI over characters or huge overblown action sequences instead of humble moments of dialogue . Sure , there's action . There's a cool fight sequence aboard a train . But because the characters are given depth , we actually care about them , which is something George Lucas could learn from . In an era when bigger is better , and audiences are used to Batman making his appearance on-screen in mere minutes of each film , " Begins " does something completely unexpected ( and risky ) . It actually takes its time . Bruce Wayne doesn't don his famous suit and cape for the first hour of the film ? and when he finally does , the costume isn't fantasized . It's imperfect , awkward and ugly . And best of all , there are no bat-nipples this time . All considered , is it really so surprising that " Batman Begins " has only made a disappointing $71 million in its first week ? Audiences are not used to blockbusters of such depth and beauty . Note : I had to trim my plot summary in this review because IMDb has a 1 , 000 word limit . Go to my website if you want to read my full review .
One of my favorite games	Roller Coaster Tycoon lets you build your own theme park , and you get to design and build rides ( even rollercoasters ) , or buy pre-made ones . The game lets you puut an admission fee and if it's too expensive no one can come in . If it's too low , you get tons of people but make no profit . Business strategy comes in mind when you're playing this game and it's as educational as fun ( yes parents , it IS educational , in fact they had it featured in an education magazine ) . You can buy marketing campaigns , take loans from the bank , with a limit ( as in reality ) of how much you take out . And if you can't pay it off you go bankrupt and everything you earn goes to the bank until you pay it off . The guests can be happy , sad , hungry , wet ( they buy umbrellas if it rains ) . You can name your guests and move them places . And with the Loopy Landscape and Corkscrew Follies expansion packs , you can actually name your employees and guest as well . You get new and improved coasters , you can paint your coasters . Everything you dream you can build , with enough money , and not too crazy or the guests won't ride it . I give the game stars it's excellent and I can't wait for the next expansion pack .
Returns to the roots of " First Blood " while providing plenty of gutsy action ( literally ! ) and fun	First things first - " Rambo " is by no means a " perfect ten " film . The reason I'm giving this a full-star rating is because , in comparison to other films of its genre , and taking into consideration its aim as a film , it really succeeds on all levels . It's fun , it's entertaining , it's brutal , and it's way better than the last two films in the series . . Fortunately Sylvester Stallone approached " John Rambo " ( or " Rambo " as it was retitled and which I'm not too keen on to be honest ) with a fresh mindset . He had been developing the script a while but unlike " Rocky Balboa , " Rambo is a fairly outdated franchise on almost all levels . Rocky is still respected by many people on an overall basis and he holds an everyman appeal as a character ; it's not just a family film franchise that appeals to viewers of all ages , it's something that speaks to people for a number of reasons . Rambo doesn't have that legacy . He's not an everyman . He's not a symbol of hope and can-do spirit and self-empowerment . Nobody was really sitting there biting their nails waiting for another Rambo movie . Sly had a hard time finding distributors and made his own trailers to show off for potential investors . It was finally picked up in 2007 and the online fanbase of ' 80s action flicks cheered in victory , but most people I met in " real life " guffawed at the thought of another Rambo . It's easy to mock Stallone for apparently trying to resurrect the only two characters he's remembered for , and I really couldn't have cared less about another " Rambo " film since I only liked " First Blood " and thought the other two were pure rubbish ; but as soon as I saw " Rocky Balboa , " and read comments by Stallone about his Rambo script afterward , I became immediately interested in how he was going to approach this film . First of all , the action is well-staged . People keep talking about the 3-deaths-per-minute average - - but really , most of that is in the last 15 minutes during which a number of people aren't even killed by Rambo . There are dozens of soldiers fighting and it's really no different than an average large-scale battle sequence ; Rambo does kill plenty of people , of course - - but hardly as many as in the other two sequels , or at least not quite as exaggeratedly ; the action is far more realistic here than any of the previous sequels ; Rambo is still , of course , fairly superhuman , but thanks to solid direction and gritty cinematography it " feels " very realistic ; it's guerilla film-making on par with the original that the other sequels completely lacked . Rambo became such a symbol by 1988 that it was really all about Stallone flexing ; not so much here . Rambo is downtrodden and world-weary and subdued again - much like the original character in " First Blood " was presented . One thing I have to admit I hoped for more of was character development ; Sly seemed to keep communicating how intent he was on getting behind the psyche of the character , but most of it is very much surface-value stuff and the character still comes across as kind of stiff and wooden . Sly's very smart and articulate off screen but he's always had trouble with dialogue and " Rambo " suffers here as much as " Rocky Balboa " did in the same department ; luckily Rambo doesn't talk much , but some of the early scenes between him and Julie Benz teeter on the edge of cheesiness . It doesn't help that Benz's role is underwritten ; I got the sense that many additional scenes were either trimmed down before filming or deleted in post-production ; there simply isn't enough room to expand the relationship , which is a shame , because it needs an expansion to really work as well as it should have . I will say , though , that it was refreshing to see Stallone avoid a romantic subplot - that would have completely pushed it over the edge into clichéd sentimentality . He avoids that which I give him credit for . I don't quite buy into the whole political / social commentary about Burmese brutality that Sly keeps pushing in interviews , but it does provide an interesting backdrop that gives the film an additional sense of realism that the others lacked . The action sequences are all staged very well and there's no excessive CGI or quick-cuts or Michael Bay-style editing - - it's very much old-fashioned , up-close , nitty-gritty action with real stuntmen and real special effects . The gore is as realistic as " Saving Private Ryan " which kind of shocked me at first since the other sequels were so goofy and over-the-top , but the film definitely benefits from this realism . Overall I was entirely entertained by the movie . It doesn't exceed expectations by a long shot - the character development as I mentioned above could have used a bit more work and certain areas , like " Rocky Balboa , " come off as trying a bit too hard - yet it's still way better than it could have been and I don't buy into the critics complaining about the excess of violence ; it isn't exploitative or overly brutal . It's a hard action film . It's rated R . If you don't want to see people getting shot and blown up , you shouldn't be watching a Rambo movie to begin with . But for what it's worth , this is the most intelligent and realistic Rambo film since " First Blood " - and I honestly wouldn't mind seeing a " Rambo 5 " ( as Stallone says he's currently penning ) if he approaches it the same way . I hope his rejuvenated career doesn't cause investors to throw too much money at him and have him start over-using CGI , etc . - - the thing this film benefits from the most is its old-school back-to-basics style . I really enjoyed the movie and was pleasantly surprised that someone out there is still capable of making an old-fashioned 1970s-style action film without all the silly camp that came with the ' 80s .
Stirring , effective and thoroughly engrossing	Much has been made of Christian Bale's performance in this film , and yet not quite enough - one can't help but think Bale's performances are so consistently strong that we're nearing the same point De Niro reached in the prime of his career : the acting is always so good , so flawless really , that it almost becomes redundant to applaud the performances any longer . I think if this had been Bale's first method performance we would have heard even more about it , but you can't even begin to compare his transformation here to what he went through for " The Machinist , " and he turned around from doing that film and gained something like sixty pounds of muscle for " Batman Begins . " The guy is a revelation and " Rescue Dawn " is simply no exception - he is pretty amazing to watch . Speaking of revelations , Steve Zahn is the real surprise here : always a gross-out comedian in past films like " Saving Silverman , " Zahn gives a great performance in " Rescue Dawn " - and it does actually overshadow Bale at times , simply because Zahn is so out there and front and center that it's impossible to miss him . Bale is - as often - far more subtle and subdued , which is perfect for his character , but Zahn is just eye-catching . Jeremy Davies goes a bit overboard with his Charles Manson channeling ( didn't he do enough of that in " Helter Skelter " ? ) but he still gives a decent performance . I just think he needs to start doing more than recycling the same wacky personality for all his roles - he was the same in " Million Dollar Hotel " and " Solaris " as well . It's getting somewhat tiresome , but it works here nonetheless . Herzog's direction is natural and reserved ; not quite as chaotic as some of his past works , it does a good job of hanging back and letting the drama play out on its own . The first hour or so of the picture is essentially a P . O . W . film , much akin to some of the darker films of the genre that were put out during the Vietnam War era and afterwards ( think " Midnight Express " if it was thrown in a blender with " The Great Escape " from the decade before ) . The film really entertained me , though I feel that's not quite the right word I'm looking for - it's not easy to be " entertained " by this film because it's a fairly rough ride ; there's some pretty disturbing , depressing stuff here . But I was thoroughly engrossed from beginning to end . I knew it wasn't the first time Herzog had approached this true story - he made a documentary some number of years ago about Dieter - but I wasn't sure what the outcome of the story was , and it kept me on the edge of my seat . Some have complained that the ending is pro-U . S . , anti-liberal propaganda because it presents a " happy " conclusion . I'm not going to spoil the film because I really advise you watch it for yourself , but to be honest , I think people are seeing what they want to see here - I found the conclusion to be perfect . There's no political message here . The conclusion is justified because of what came before - after two hours of realistic horror the character finally finds some level of peace , and I'm sure it's very true to how Dieter must have really felt after his ordeals . I think some people are just approaching it with way too much cynicism . I loved the entire film from beginning to end , and found the performances , direction and writing to all be superb ; it may not be a completely perfect movie , but it was one of my favourites of last year .
A Bit Disappointing , But Still Worth Seeing . . .	Martin Brest's comedy " Midnight Run " was a pretty big disappointment for me . I had heard a lot of good things about it - - but in the end I was very disappointed . It involves bounty hunter Robert De Niro going on a mission for loan shark Joe Pantoliano . A man who took a loan from Joey never paid him back , and now he's stolen millions from a mafia boss . De Niro's mission is to bring him in to Pantoliano for a large fee . So De Niro goes and finds Charles Grodin , the man with all the stolen cash , and slaps some handcuffs on him . But it's getting him back that will be the tough part . Grodin doesn't fly . Nor does he like small spaces . He's a paranoid yet calm little freak who single-handedly begins to drive De Niro crazy . And now , with time running out , Pantoliano has sent out another bounty hunter to find De Niro and Grodin and bring them both in . " Midnight Run " has one main problem : it moves slow . I mean , the plot moves quick , but once De Niro finds Grodin it starts to move very slowly . Then it turns from loose comedy to slapstick - - in a matter of minutes . One second the film is throwing small gags around , then there's one scene where they are being chased into a river and it's pure slapstick . And are we to believe that the ending can be wrapped up so typically ? I caught this movie on TV a while back , and while the movie isn't bad - - it is pretty good - - I thought it was going to be great . That's why , for me , it was a pretty big disappointment . I'm a big fan of both De Niro , Grodin , and I even like Joe Pantoliano , better known for his roles in " The Fugitive , " " Memento " and " The Matrix . " But I didn't see a big spark of chemistry between De Niro and Grodin here . The film could have played for many more gags involving the two , but it seems that after the train ride in the beginning the director has decided , " We've spent enough time on character contrast - - onto the action ! " This movie would have been a lot better if Grodin had been a bit more talkative , if De Niro had responded a bit more , and if they had better dialogue for the actors . The train scene itself seems wandering . Perhaps next time I see this movie I'll enjoy it more , but the first time was a pretty disappointing ride . stars - - John Ulmer
Arguably one of the funniest films ever made	" Airplane ! " is , was and always shall be the master of spoof movies . It is single-handedly responsible for literally inventing a sub-genre of comedy . It is the ultimate Silly Movie . A satire of the disaster movies of the 1970s , particularly the " Airport " series , nothing makes sense and it doesn't need to . There's no real plot . Just laughs - and plenty of ' em . It was helmed by the ZAZ trio ( Zucker , Abrahams and Zucker ) , whose dedication to making the audience laugh is surprisingly adamant . Recent spoofs may have left a bad aftertaste in your mouth , but it seems to be a universal agreement : " Airplane " is the funniest film of its genre ever made . ( Closely followed by " The Naked Gun " - also penned by the ZAZ trio - perhaps . ) The plot : Ted Striker ( Robert Hays ) is a war veteran-turned-cab-driver who decides to chase after his girlfriend , an airline stewardess named Elaine ( Julie Hagerty ) , who has dumped him in order to pursue a new life . Right before her plane takes off , Ted climbs aboard , hitching a ride in order to woo her back into a relationship again . When the aircraft is in midflight , both pilots become very ill after eating their meals . Eventually many passengers begin to show symptoms of a rare disease , apparently transmitted by the food . Onboard , Dr . Rumack ( Leslie Nielsen ) takes care of the sick passengers as Ted - an ex-fighter pilot from the war - decides to try and land the plane . If he messes up they will all die , and in a particularly funny scene , the pressure becomes so unbearable that he begins to literally sweat gallons in the cockpit . That is essentially all the film is about , but most of its duration is spent cracking jokes . Spoof films are entirely different from other movies because normally we would criticize a film if it considered its plot to be the least important element . Not so here . This is a truly brainless piece of celluloid - a movie that doesn't try to be anything that it isn't . From the opening credits - that cleverly spoof " JAWS " - to the closing we realize that this is an altogether unique film going experience . The movie's biggest laughs come through unexpected flashbacks , such as when Ted remembers where he first met Elaine in a crummy bar ( " . . . it was worse than Detroit . . . " ) , and begins to disco-dance a la John Travolta from " Saturday Night Fever " ( complete with Bee Gees soundtrack blaring in the background and the famous Travolta pose ) . Then , later , we are taken back to when Ted was hospitalized after the war , and finds out that he was responsible for the death of six men . " Seven , actually , " he is informed , which adds to the pain of the moment for him . Though this movie is very funny , many jokes misfire . If you're not pop culture savvy and you don't remember Mrs . Cleaver from TV's " Leave it to Beaver " , the humor is going to go over your head . But unlike many comedies , " Airplane ! " offers something unique for each person . I know that as a film lover , I picked up on many movie in-jokes that some people might not recognize . And then there were the gags that I first missed but picked up after a second viewing , or when someone explained them to me , or both . And I'm sure there are many yet that I'm not aware of . It seems that every time I watch it , there's something else to laugh at that I missed previously . " Airplane ! " not only was a huge success in 1980 ( the year of its release ) , spinning off a horde of imitators and one sequel - it was also responsible for crowning Leslie Nielsen " The King of Spoof . " Prior to " Airplane ! " Nielsen had been a veteran of more serious productions , stemming back to playing cowboys on " The Mickey Mouse Club " and other embarrassing attempts at acting . However , Nielsen later claimed that he had always wanted to do a comedy , even when he first started acting seriously with projects such as the classic " Forbidden Planet " ( one of the best science-fiction films ever made ) . He later reunited with the ZAZ trio for " The Naked Gun " trilogy , appeared in similar spoof films over the years such as " Wrongfully Accused " and " Scary Movie 3 , " and had his iconic comedy shtick ripped off by many screen veterans - most noticeably by George Gaynes in the unbearable " Police Academy " ( 1984 ) . When it comes down to a single evaluation , " Airplane " is simply the best spoof film ever made . It's like a MAD Magazine parody come to life . There are the occasional misfires , but unlike many other spoof film imitators , this one contains far more hits . The deadpan acting is genius and everything else fits into place , resulting in what may arguably be one of the absolute funniest films ever conceived and put on the big screen . And if you decide to watch the movie , don't blink - you might miss a gag or two . The " Police Academies " will come and go but " Airplane ! " will never be forgotten .
Bad , but not one of the worst films of all time . . .	Father HoodI can understand why a lot of people hate this tale of a father kidnapping his two children and carrying them across America , but I've seen much worse , and - - when I saw this years ago - - I didn't think it was particularly awful . Patrick Swayze is the worried father who takes his kids on the run with him for personal reasons , and Halle Berry is the cop chasing them down . Overall a decent way to spend a couple hours of your life . You could certainly do worse - - ever hear of the film " Pod People " ? out of Rated PG-13 for some traumatic scenes , adult content matter , violence and language .
Adaptation .	Some Spoilers . " The Player " opens with a long , tracking shot outside of a Hollywood studio . We see a man walk by ( Fred Ward ) who complains about how directors use too many cuts in films nowadays , and that they should use long , tracking shots , instead . The irony ? The beginning of our movie is using a long , tracking shot . We wind around buildings filled with hoards of famous stars and directors and writers . Griffin Mills ( Tim Robbins ) is a studio executive - he hears film " pitches , " or outlines for film stories . We see Buck Henry ( writer of " The Graduate " ) throwing a pitch to him for " The Graduate : Part II . " It is 1992 , and every time a pitch is thrown , we hear a film exec respond to the pitch thrower by saying , " It should star Julia Roberts and Bruce Willis . " One British man throwing a pitch to Griffin insists that his film shall have no big stars , especially not Julia Roberts or Bruce Willis . He says that he wants no action , no car chases , no sex , no happy ending . And when the hilarious , surprise movie-within-a-movie ending of " The Player " starts to unfold . . . well , let's just say that things do not always turn out the way people want them to . And this is what makes " The Player " tick . It's a scathing satire , one that the sharpest of film buffs will love for its in-jokes and cameos ( over 60 ! ) , and the most naive of filmgoers will love for its ironic , good-guys-lose , bad-guys-win story . Griffin Mills ( Robbins ) has a nice life - a nice car , a nice girl , a nice job , and he's filthy rich . But lately his standing as a film executive has been threatened by the new guy ( Peter Gallagher ) , who is showing lots of potential in the field . One day he gets a postcard with threats on the back . Thinking that the postcard came from a writer he pushed away months ago ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) , he confronts him . One thing leads to another and he ends up killing the writer - unintentionally , we are led to assume , though there are some doubts . But being the ironic movie this is , Griffin has , of course , killed the wrong writer . And so he continues getting postcards and threats - someone even puts a poisonous snake in his car . Griffin becomes more and more paranoid as the days go on , and almost falls to the pressure of police questioning , led by Whoopi Goldberg . In-jokes flow freely . Some big movie buffs might pick up on such references as to Levinson , or " The Bicycle Thief " ( 1942 ) , or movie posters hanging on the walls in the background ( " M , " " Casablanca , " etc . ) . But it will take numerous viewings before you realize that they are more than just there to please film buffs - they are there for irony . Film buffs might be the only ones who pick up on the irony of them , too . This is a movie made for movie lovers , for the movie insiders and for those who like a good laugh . It's a spoof on tinseltown and all its crazy little rituals of getting a film made . This could be called an anti-heroic movie - and I'm sure it has been called that . It's not for those who like poetic justice in their films . Good guys burn and bad guys win . At first I didn't like this , but then I realized that it isn't trying to be anti-heroic - it's being ironic . And let's face it : Irony is funny . " The Player " reminds me very much of " Adaptation " ( 2002 ) , the story of a writer played by Nicolas Cage who doesn't want to Hollywoodize his script about orchids . " I just don't want to turn it into a Hollywood thing , " he says . He says something to the effect of , " No violence , no drugs , no sex , no people overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end . " The irony is that , in the end , everything he didn't want to happen in his script happens . There's some of that irony in " The Player , " plus a little bit more . If you liked " Adaptation , " then you've got to see " The Player . " .
The budget is bigger , the cast is larger , the story is deeper , the film is better . . .	The film begins . We are shown a tour guide leading students and adults through the White House in Washington , DC . It seems normal enough . A security guard notices someone straying off the path and asks if he is lost . The man raises his head , and a tail flicks out from behind him . Before the security guard can do anything he is down on the ground , alerting all security in the area of a mutant attack . The blue creature , known later as Nightcrawler , teleports past dozens of guards and kicks and whips them with his tail and fists . Finally the action dies down with the creature being shot ( not killed ) , and we are left to catch our breaths . Reader , I'll tell you , it took me a few moments to catch mine . It sure looks as if " X2 " is on the right track for a sequel , and if anything , it seems better . The budget is obviously bigger as we see the truly amazing special effects in the beginning of the film , and though the action never quite again reaches its high-point as in the beginning , it sets the film up for other non-stop action sequences , just like the James Bond movies are known for doing . But that's not all " X-Men 2 , " or " X2 " as the posters abbreviate , is all about . It has an important human element that adds to the pure , non-stop , full-blooded action-spectaculars throughout the film . The cast is bigger , the budget is bigger , the story is bigger , and the action is plentiful . Teenagers will enjoy the action side , and adults will probably enjoy the human side to the story . It seamlessly combines both these two elements / techniques even more than the original film did . I didn't expect to enjoy this film more than the first , but I must say I did . It reunites the old cast for a continuation of the struggle for mutants and humans to live together in the same world . The film begins with an assassination attempt on the president's life , carried out by a teleporting mutant . This act upsets the entire world , and the president is about to begin the mutant-human war predicted by Charles Xavier ( Patrick Stewart ) in the first film . In an effort to get to the bottom of the attack on the president's life , and prevent world-wide war , Xavier sends out Storm ( Halle Berry ) and Dr . Jean Grey ( Famke Janssen ) to search for the teleporting mutant and discover the truth behind the assassination attempt . Meanwhile , Logan " Wolverine " ( Hugh Jackman ) has returned to Xavier's mansion after searching for any signs of his past . He has found none . He is greeted by Rogue ( Anna Paquin ) and her new boyfriend Bobby " Iceman , " who was briefly seen in the first film and is given a deeper character backdrop in this film . But soon things start to turn for the worst as an attack on Xavier's mansion is led by Stryker ( Brian Cox ) , the man behind the assassination attempt , who wants all mutants to be killed off . He kidnaps Charles Xavier , and reveals that he wishes for Charles to kill all mutants . How ? By focusing Xavier's psychic powers / telepathy on a particular group of people , Xavier can actually kill them . So Stryker plans to use his disowned mutant son ( who also has psychic powers ) to control Xavier's mind ( sort of ) and focus on all the mutants in the world , automatically killing them . With this plot in motion , Mystique ( Rebecca Romijn-Stamos ) has little time to free Eric " Magneto , " which results in a truly amazing escape sequence which I will not spoil for you . Now , in an ironic moment , old enemies must fight together to bring down Stryker before his plan follows through . But the band of X-Men are far from solving their problems , as a new mutant , Lady Deathstrike ( Kelly Hu ) may stand in their way of defeating Stryker . And Wolverine may also find the key to his past in this mess . " X-Men 2 , " unlike other sequels , improves upon itself . Tragic sequels go to the dogs when the filmmakers are either too proud to try and surpass the original , or are too arrogant to even attempt it . " X-Men " was an excellent comic-book adaptation , in more ways than one , and " X-Men 2 " is only better . It contains more action than " Spider-Man " and its human factor is even more active than it was in the original , which is ironic , since the original was praised for having both action and human attributes . The cast is first-class , but the real scene-stealer , just like in the original , is Hugh Jackman as Wolverine . The Aussie actor disguises his accent with a rough American one , just like British chap Bob Hoskins did in " Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? " . If the filmmakers want a new James Bond after Pierce Brosnan , they need look no farther , because though he may not look the part in this film , Jackman can look very suave and proper ( see " Kate and Leopold " ) , and is my top choice for the next Bond . Comic book films are usually hit-or-miss . They're never in between . " X-Men " was an unexpected hit , but more than that , a good unexpected hit . It wasn't all hype . It was smart , action-packed and hat a great character side to it . Like I said before , " X-Men 2 " improves upon all this and is the rare sequel that is better than its predecessor . I expect " X-Men 2 " to break some box office records , and unlike other films , I can honestly say that it deserves it . stars - John Ulmer
Exceedingly hilarious , very warm , and one of my favorite comedies . . .	A hilarious Neil Simon comedy that evokes laughs from beginning to end . The late Walter Matthau is the grouchy ex-comedian who is persuaded to join together with his ex-partner ( the late Oscar-winner George Burns ) for a final reunion show on stage . Benjamin Martin is Matthau's agent and nephew , and the two have just as much chemistry as Matthau and Burns . I love Matthau's grumpy character - - he's just the same as he always is , and yet also very different . Burns , as the absent-minded old man , is just as funny as Matthau . Matthau : Want some crackers ? I've got coconut , pineapple and graham . Burns : How about a plain cracker ? Matthau : I don't got plain . I got coconut , pineapple and graham . Burns : OkayMatthau : They're in the cupboard in the kitchen . Burns : Maybe later . Or how about this : Matthau : When I did black , the whites knew what I was saying ! You've got to see it in the movie to understand it ! All in all , a refreshingly hilarious , sweet , heartfelt , warm , belivable character comedy with a heart and some of the most memorable quotes of all time . They just don't make them like this anymore ! In a time when all the newest comedies are crude , juvenile and stupid , this leans back towards the tender core of what comedy really is - - funny characters , smart and funny dialogue , and grand entertainment . One of the best buddy comedies of all time , right up there with " Planes , Trains and Automobiles , " " Lethal Weapon , " and " The Hard Way . " You may have a hard time finding this for rent or on TV , but trust me , it will be worth your time ! stars . - John Ulmer
He Said He'd Be Back . . . and He Certainly is !	Who said sequels aren't any good ? " Terminator 2 " is the ultimate sequel , a big bad wolf ready to chomp the head off of anyone who crosses its path . It's dark , it's mean , and it's one tough movie . It's not as bleak as the first film , at least in terms of visuals , but rather has a new kind of bluish-tint that supplies a great backdrop to the ongoing battle between man and machine . If there was ever a contemporary mainstream visionary director , it is James Cameron . Here we've got Cameron's real thoughts on the series , those repressed by a low budget in the original film . He lets loose here , filling every frame with hard-boiled action and special effects . He introduces a liquid metal Terminator that he wanted to use in the first film , but graphic processors and CGI were not advanced enough in 1984 , at least not advanced enough to work on the low means he had to film the original . So his original dream is finally unveiled , and good golly , gee Molly , is it wonderful . Yeah , he's " back . " Arnold ( like he needs any introduction ? ) returns as The Terminator , Series T-101 , Model T-800 , an indestructible cyborg sent from the future to assassinate Sarah Connor ( Linda Hamilton ) in the first film . Well , it's 1991 . New film . New mission . He has to save the future resistance leader of mankind who will ultimately defeat the machines of the future , John Connor ( Edward Furlong ) , Sarah's 11-year-old son . ( Though his age has been switched from 11 to 13 and back to 9 over the years , with no help from the third film that takes place in 2003 , yet claims he was 13 in 1991 though his age doesn't match with his age in the third . We'll just leave it at 11 in this film . Got that ? ) Another model Terminator , the T-1000 ( Robert Patrick ) , has been sent back to 1991 programmed to annihilate John Connor . Which explains Arnold's appearance . Arnold , an undoubtedly lesser opponent compared to the T-1000 , has to help save the day and learn to appreciate humanity . It won't be easy . First , he has to find John Connor , who is a rebellious angst-driven pre-teen living with foster parents . Then , together they have to break into the local loony hospital and release Sarah from the clutches of Dr . Silberman ( Earl Boen ) , who believes Sarah is delusional . ( You may remember Silberman as the psychiatrist from the first film , too . ) Then , they have to stop a computer chip designer ( Joe Morton ) from creating the first version of a SkyNet computer , modeled after a destroyed chip his employment company discovered at a large mechanical warehouse . ( Which is , of course , the chip from the destroyed T-800 of the first film . ) Whew . On with the film analysis , right ? Where to start ? This isn't as fierce or brutal as the first film , but it's got plentiful action sequences , a large budget , great special effects ( even compared to those gracing the screen nowadays ) , not to mention a great character study of the machine we loved to root against in the first film . Of course , this Terminator has no memory of the first film , since he wasn't in it - - SkyNet creates hordes of the same version machines on a large conveyor belt and ships them off to fight in the war . Some are sent back through time . So , with that in mind , John Connor's resistance found an extra Arnold lying around in an abandoned warehouse , programmed him to keep John Connor out of harm , and sent him through the time portal . Sarah doesn't trust him . In a deleted scene available on the Ultimate and " Xtreme " edition DVDs , Sarah says , " You don't know what it's like to try and kill one of these things ! " It's an important scene that should have been left in the final cut . In it , Sarah is about to destroy the machine's central processing chip located inside his head , when John stops her . It's important because it focuses on the fact that Sarah still doesn't trust him , and came close to destroying him purely out of prejudice , without giving him a chance . As much as I don't like it when people go on about hidden meanings in films that obviously are not meant to have hidden meanings and are purely little flubs made by directors unrightfully analyzed for deeper meaning ( s ) , " T2 " clearly has an underlying message : One , don't judge a book by its cover . Read it first . Two , if an emotionless killing machine can learn to appreciate life , why can't everyone ? And three , the most important fact of all : Never mess with a muscular man who walks into a bar completely naked and requests your clothes and means of transportation . I suppose the question on most interested viewers ' minds is this : Is " T2 : Judgment Day " better than its predecessor ? Well , in some respects , yes . In others , no . It lacks the fierce brutality and darkness of the first film , but makes up for it with spectacular visual effects and action sequences . It lacks the horrific central focus of the first film ( futuristic , indestructible cyborgs with no feelings being able to unemotionally kill ) , but it makes up for this with a new focus of humanity , coming to accept your future , and how it would look if two colossal killing machines entered into an arena together . In some ways , I like the first better . But then I think about the second film and I have a hard time choosing . I suppose if I had to choose I'd choose the first film . And let me just state for the record that I'm glad I don't have to choose . stars .
Steven Wright is a comedic genius	If you enjoy the more well-known ( late ) comic Mitch Hedberg , you'll love Steven Wright . He did everything Hedberg did , only he did it first . ( Which isn't to take any of Hedberg's talent away from him - he was a great talent , too . ) Wright's " I Have a Pony " is one of the best comedy albums of all-time . It's no surprise that he hasn't released another album since - it's gotta be hard to come up with so many amazing one-liners . Some of the psychological stuff will seriously screw up your mind . " I put my instant coffee in a microwave - - I nearly went back in time , " as another user here on IMDb quotes him as saying in their review . One of my favorites - - " I was walking in the woods all by myself . A tree fell down right in front of me and I didn't hear a thing . " " Steven Wright Live " is mostly stuff from the " I Have a Pony " album . It's sixty minutes of pure intellectual comedy that will satisfy anyone looking to laugh themselves silly . Highly recommended .
Haunting and Poetic ; A True Masterpiece . . .	Carol Reed's " The Third Man " strikes all the right cords , establishing itself on so many different levels that it almost becomes untouchable . It has an underlying tone of darkness that not only thrills but chills . It grabs the viewer from the start and never lets go . It opens with Anton Karas ' startling zither music and quickly propels the viewer into a world of evil and lies . The tale is familiar to any film lovers : A pulp Western writer named Holly Martin ( Joseph Cotten ) is invited to post-war Vienna by an old friend of his , Harry Lime ( Orson Welles ) . The city has been divided into American , British , French and Russian zones . The city exists as a shattered remnant of the past - haunting and horrifying , dark and mysterious . Upon his arrival , Holly discovers to his horror that his old college pal is dead - hit by a car in the middle of a street . But for Holly , the circumstances don't add up - everyone involved in the accident was related in some way or another to Harry . So Holly searches for clues , much to the chagrin of the British officer Calloway ( Trevor Howard ) , whose name is misused as Callohan by Holly many times throughout the film . ( " It's ' Calloway , ' Mr . Martin , I'm not Irish . " ) Holly Martin does begin to stumble upon some vital clues as to the real story behind Lime's death - and finds out more than he bargained for . Lime's old girlfriend is a stage actress . ( " Always comedy . " ) She accompanies Holly throughout the film , and we expect an underlying romance to blossom , but yet in the end it does not - one of the many surprises of the film . I suppose it would be a sin for me to give away how Harry Lime reappears , or even give away the fact that he does , for that matter ( though by now I am sure you realize Orson Welles is in this movie and therefore turns out to be alive ) . But for those who have seen the film , we all remember that terrific scene where the cat meows , and suddenly he appears , an evil smirk on his face like a child who has gotten away with the cookie from the jar . And then the ferris wheel scene , and the chase through the sewers that no doubt helped win the film an Oscar for cinematography . These are all some of the most memorable of film scenes . The director of " The Third Man , " Carol Reed , stumbled upon the film's musician , Anton Karas , one night in a trashy bar in Vienna . It is no wonder that out of all his candidates he chose Karas - the film's tune is literally the most perfect example of matching harmony between a film and its music I have ever seen ( although " JAWS " is up there with it ) . To go into the music is pointless - it must simply be heard in synchronism with the film for you to understand where I am coming from . When I think of film noir , " D . O . A . " ( 1949 ) and " The Third Man " ( 1949 ) are the first two films that come to mind . Both accomplish what they set out to do , but " The Third Man " exceeds even farther than the former - it is haunting and almost poetically vibrant in the way it displays its story and the outcome of its characters . It is a film that will be around for years and years . " Citizen Kane " is often thought of as the greatest American motion picture of all time . But if I had to choose between the two , I would most likely choose " The Third Man . " It's just my opinion , of course , and many may not agree , but as far as I see , " The Third Man " beats " Citizen Kane " - for me - on more levels than one . Welles ' " Citizen Kane " ( 1941 ) was an artistic film that rarely used close-ups . It would almost stand back from the scenes and let the viewer focus on what he or she wanted to focus on . " The Third Man " has many close-ups . I do not take this as a director trying to give the audience what he wants them to see , but rather a director in touch with his feelings and ideas . Director Carol Reed knows just how to evoke characters ' feelings from scenes and close-up shots . The camera tilts at awkward angles more often than not . The more and more paranoid and afraid our hero becomes the more and more intense the close-ups and angles . There is some haunting material in " The Third Man , " some material the most novice of filmgoers might not expect . And the music and direction only makes it all the more terrifying and haunting . This is a film that you must witness to believe . .
Fantastic - one of the best of all-time ; Anderson is amazing .	' Boogie Nights ' uses its protagonist , Dirk Diggler , as a metaphor for accumulated celebrities from a decade in America's shameful past , which was comprised of an unexpected rise in pornography , therefore resulting in an abundance of corrupted youth . Its lead character borrows traits from a various assortment of genuine actors , involving himself in many illegal affairs that have been dabbled in by celebrities in Hollywood , and all-too-often exploited by the press . It seems like the sort of tall tale that might appear on an E ! True Hollywood Story special . Drugs , sex and violence - - the American Dream . But what goes up must come down , and the bigger it is , the harder it falls . Dirk Diggler's dreams are huge , as is another valuable asset on his body . Dirk's real name is Eddie Adams , a Californian who dreams of becoming a star . He believes that God gives one great talent to every individual on the planet , and his gift is a rather unusual one . After falling out with his mother , Eddie leaves home and meets the sleazy Jack Horner ( Burt Reynolds ) , an adult film director who offers him work . Eddie eventually becomes a major porn star , representing the leading " actor " in most of Horner's films . With newfound success , Eddie is told that he needs to invent a new alias for himself , and so Dirk Diggler is born . Eddie / Dirk himself is primarily based on infamous porn star John Holmes , whose life story was adapted in 2003 with ' Wonderland ' , which starred Val Kilmer . ' Boogie Nights ' is unarguably the better of the two , proving that movies about pornography can be made without disgusting its target audience : regular cinema-goers . The film takes place in 1977 , an era of artistic pornography - - filmmakers truly believed that they could compensate for the low points of X-rated features by adding deep stories and mesmerizing atmosphere . In a way , the film's director - - Paul Thomas Anderson - - implements a very artistic approach to the project , resulting in a gratuitous and artistic movie about a period in American history when smut was indeed both gratuitous and artistic . Anderson's style is so deep , and so distinct , that we soon feel as if we are reliving the era first-hand . Not a moment goes by where we are unconvinced of the time range dealt with in the film . All was not happy on the set of ' Boogie Nights ' . Prior to filming , Anderson approached Reynolds repeatedly , asking him many separate times to play the role of Horner . Eventually , Reynolds agreed , but claimed that the film was horrible and the worst role of his career , publicly disowning it , before being nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award and suddenly shutting up . A year before , Anderson had suffered title disputes over Sydney / Hard Eight . He preferred the latter title for his film , and New Line Cinema thought the former was more marketable . He essentially lost the battle , and Anderson wisely avoided title disputes this time around by inserting the words " boogie nights " into his movie through the mouth of a character . The casting of the film is one of its finest aspects . The Paul Thomas Anderson regulars are here , as well as a whole top-notch cast of first-timers . To name some of the more well-known stars : John C . Reilly , Phillip Seymour Hoffman , Luis Guzman , William H . Macy , Heather Graham and Julianne Moore . But the entire movie essentially borders down to Mark Wahlberg , as Eddie , who is surprisingly convincing in his role . Wahlberg , previously known for his singing career and disappointing Hollywood pursuits , has all the necessary traits to portray such a character . This is his best role to date . Anderson knows how to captivate his audience and take complete control of every scene . When Jack Horner first meets Eddie , Anderson slyly uses stars in the backdrop , a sign of things to come , and hidden symbolism as finely acute as it can be . The opening scene is three minutes , a long tracking shot that follows Jack and Amber into a night club , where most of the characters are first introduced . It reminds me of the discussions regarding tracking shots in Robert Altman's ' The Player ' - - it works so brilliantly in Boogie Nights , and is the first indication that Anderson knows what he is doing behind the camera . His style is fast-paced in the vein of Martin Scorsese , where shots zip around quite quickly but never seem rushed . Incidentally , Anderson references two classic Scorsese shots - - the closing De Niro mirror speech from ' Raging Bull ' and the tracking nightclub scene from ' GoodFellas ' . Anderson is a young , growing director who is remarkably mature in story and direction , despite his age . Whereas his first feature film , ' Hard Eight ' , was noticeably wise and poignant , ' Boogie Nights ' is even more so . ' Boogie Nights ' began as an effort of love on Paul Thomas Anderson's account . Having filmed the extraordinary Hard Eight in 1996 , Anderson's film is pragmatic to such an extreme that it almost seems genuine . Boogie Nights invigorates us with its gratuitous content , occasionally bordering on the verge of pornography , only it is far more sophisticated than such trash . It is a blazing , wonderful modern-day masterpiece that is as mind-numbingly explicit as it is wild and stylish . Arguably Anderson's best film and among the greatest - - and most important - - projects of the last decade .
Signs point to yes ! ( Some spoilers )	SIGNS ( 2002 ) ( stars ) Rarely does a film come along that is truly great by all means , even if flawed . M . Night Shyamalan's new Summer hit SIGNS is just that . Mel Gibson turns in a wonderful performance as Graham Hess , an ex - priest ( of what domination we never firmly grasp ) who loses his faith after his wife dies . Now he lives with his brother Merrill ( Joaquin Phoenix ) on a farm in Philadelphia with his two children , Morgan ( Rory Culkin ) and Bo ( Abigail Breslin ) . After finding crop circles in his cornfields , weird things start to happen all leading up to one of the best and most under rated cinematic conclusions I've seen in years . The acting in Signs itself makes it worthy of critical acclaim . Mel Gibson presents his best performance we've seen in years , and Joaquin Phoenix ( who got an Oscar Nom for the 1999 film Gladiator ) is superb as a humorous , but responsible brother to Graham . Rory Culkin - the brother of Home Alone star Macaulay Culkin - acts better than his brother ever did , especially considering the emotional scenes . Abigail Breslin lights up the screen , one scene in particular with Gibson when she asks why her father talks to her mother sometimes . Another great performance by all the actors is in one scene at dinner , in which they all have a bit of a feud . It's terrific acting at it's best . M . Night Shymalan , who directed , wrote , produced , and acted in this film is one of the best directors to emerge into the film industry in years . What separates Shymalan from the rest is that his approach at filmmaking is genuine and very original . He truly loves his job , and we can tell he obviously enjoys doing what he does for a living . You see , Signs isn't about aliens attacking Earth , what crop circles come from or their purpose , etc . or anything you'd think . Signs is about an ordinary man , who loses his faith , and then finds it again . That is what this film is about . We aren't presented with a horror film about aliens attacking , or any real action sequences involving this subject . We are presented with a man and his family , and what they would do . We don't want to see E . T , nor INDEPENDECE DAY , or such horror / sci-fi / action films like ALIEN and PREDATOR . Though most of those films are great , we've seen it before , and that's what makes Signs different from other alien films , and what makes us interested in it . SIGNS ISN'T REALLY ABOUT ALIENS . It's how a man finds his faith again IN THIS situation . Shymalan just took a subject he found interesting , popped in a family in the middle , and continued his brilliant message on screen . I must agree with the critics and audiences around the globe , Shymalan is the next Hitchcock . He presents us scenes in which he drags out the invisible slowly , then unleashes the full picture ( like the beginning field sequence , in which we are slowly presented the crop circles ) . Another aspect of this film , is proving Night has a knack for acting . In one scene , he delivers an emotional scene to Gibson . Shymalan and Gibson must work again together soon . I hope Night at least gets an Oscar nom for best director , Gibson for best actor , and Phoenix for supporting actor . THIS they all deserve an award for . It's a truly great film . Night also has a knack for making something normal and mundane very horrifying and scary . The soundtrack by James Newton Howard is amazingly eery . Much like the classic Hitchcock films , the soundtrack changes the mood of the audience member in their seat . It can spellbind them , amaze them , scare them , haunt them , or make them feel depressed . In SIGNS case , most of the film is filled with haunting and eery music , and uses this ancient film technique to it's advantage . The aliens , though some criticize of being very unrealistic , are presented perfectly , not showing them fully on screen , until when you least expect ( some say naked aliens just look dumb , but hey , what about E . T ? ) . One interesting part of the film , is in which a baby monitor accidentally picks up aliens speaking in ' clicks , ' which is how we suspect they communicate between each other . It provides a nice aspect of communication through the film not only with humans , but that these creatures are real and they do communicate , much like us . I will tell you , Signs does have some flaws that are spotted easily , and we wonder how a director like Night could have let these through into the film . One would wonder why Gibson's character doesn't arm himself with more of a weapon than a knife , but that is a forgivable flaw . I won't point out any more of the flaws I spotted , because it might ruin the film for you in case you don't spot them . Just let this be a warning , there are flaws . Just put them aside if and when you spot them and have fun . Unlike a lot of movies , Signs also has an excellent ending . When the credits start rolling , the message comes clear across , and you realize Shymalan delivered what he wanted to be delivered . Though it may disappoint some ? 6th Sense ' fans because it uses a different technique overall , I enjoyed SIGNS better . All in all Signs does have some flaws , but if you put them aside you can find yourself having a very enjoyable experience at the movies . I did at least . The storytelling is superb , the setting and musical score is haunting , the acting is one of a kind , and the overall effect it accomplished on me and other audience members , proves that great sci-fi / horror / drama films can still be made right . I give SIGNS stars-enjoy the film , don't criticize it's flaws . >
It has its flaws but it is also extremely entertaining and one of the Coen Brothers ' best films .	If you were a fan of " Fargo , " you might just like " The Big Lebowski , " a bizarre comedy whose hero ( if that is the appropriate word ) is played by Jeff Bridges as a spaced-out junkie who lives in Los Angeles , unemployed , with a trashy apartment and few belongings . His name is Lebowski , but he is known by his friends as The Dude , and he prefers that moniker rather than his birth name . Every evening Dude goes bowling with his best buddies , Walter ( John Goodman ) and Donny ( Steve Buscemi ) . Walter is a Vietnam veteran , and in his perception , all incidents relate to the war . " What does the Vietnam War have to do with anything ? " Dude asks him at a fragile moment in both their lives . Instead of disputing , Walter gives him a big bear hug . The story begins with a humorous and self-aware voice-over by the narrator , played by Sam Elliot in a few recurring cameos . He informs us that Dude's adventure started on an eventful night not very long ago , when a duo of criminals broke into his house in search of The Big Lebowski , a local millionaire who happens to share Dude's last name . After dunking Dude's face into a toilet bowl and realizing that they've attacked the incorrect individual , the pair of idiots urinate on Dude's rug and flee the apartment . Dude figures that the only man truly responsible for the incident is Lebowski himself , so he makes a trip out to his mansion and is informed by Lebowski's assistant ( portrayed by Philip Seymour Hoffman with the perfect amount of nervousness ) that Lebowski's wife has been kidnapped and is being held for ransom . Suspecting that she is in the custody of the two men who attacked Dude , Lebowski offers the slacker a chance to be the courier of his ransom fee . " Her life is in your hands , " Lebowski tells him . He promises him some cash to transport a briefcase containing the money , and Lebowski agrees to help him out . Unfortunately , the kidnappers never receive their ransom , and Dude's car is stolen , along with Lebowski's money . It just so happens that Lebowski's unfaithful wife owed some money to a trio of German nihilists , as well as an adult filmmaker and an assortment of other odd creatures , and now Lebowski is being targeted for the cash . Everyone seems to think that the briefcase is in his possession , and he is threatened that he will lose his " Johnson " unless it is returned . Fearing for his life ( and more importantly , his Johnson ) Dude takes comfort in Walter , who tracks down the 15-year-old teenager who stole the car and the briefcase and has apparently bought a sports car with a small portion of the briefcase's contents . " See this Tommy ? This is what happens when you mess with a stranger ! " Walter yells at the boy as he single-handedly demolishes the sports car . We all anticipate the obvious punch line far ahead of time , but the result is nevertheless extremely funny . The Coen Brothers , Ethan and Joel , are extremely gifted filmmakers . They burst onto screens across the nation in 1984 with their indie classic " Blood Simple , " which starred Frances McDormand and Dan Hedaya , the former of whom would later star in " Fargo " as the bumbling police officer Marge Gunderson . As usual , the Coens fall back on their quirky characters for comic relief and enjoyable antics , particularly Buscemi , who is one of the best character actors in Hollywood , and who also manages to be funny in whichever role he chooses - despite having to say anything funny at all . In " Fargo " he was the blundering kidnapper , Carl , and in " The Big Lebowski , " he lets his hair part across his head and hang low across his face , completely changing his entire pattern of speech . He's the goofy little squirt who tags along with Dude and Walter , and manages to repeat everything they say and ask questions about discussions long after they have ended . " You're like a child who has wandered into the middle of a movie and wants to know what's going on ! " Walter tells him . " What's your point , Walter ? " he asks . But it's the innocent nature of his tone that leads us to like him , and it's Walter's crazy antics that makes us feel attached to him , and it's The Dude's trademark humor that makes us enjoy watching him . The Coens have succeeded at making a great comedy with characters that actually have their own characteristics . But it is the Coens ' eloquent use of proverbial language that is really what elevates the film above all else . The script is wonderful and witty . This has some of the best dialogue I have ever heard , ranking up there with " Pulp Fiction " and the work of Elmore Leonard . Walter's rants consume much of the dialogue , which I think is fine . " The Big Lebowski " is a movie with considerably large structural flaws and weaknesses . Yet the film seems to know this , letting the audience in on the secret during the introductory voice-over narration . " Aw , I've lost my train of thought , " we're told , as The Stranger mumbles on about the movie's plot . And towards the end , we're all told by The Stranger that he sincerely hopes we enjoyed the story , even if it's nothing special . Yup , that about sums it all up . " The Big Lebowski " is a movie with a lot of joy , wit , and wicked humor : three reasons you've got to see one of the most enjoyable films of the past decade .
They're back .	After a disappointing tenth season , Trey Parker and Matt Stone have started off Season 11 with a bang - satirizing the media frenzy caused by the Michael Richards racial slur incident late last year and yet again touching on a very fragile subject matter : the " N-word . " The reason " South Park " can get away with using the N-word over 40 times in one episode , of course , is because - unlike " Family Guy " or other basic shows - " South Park " has evolved into an intelligent criticism of society and every episode deals with some kind of current events issue , and in particular this episode addresses the impact of these harmful words more so than just the shock of the word itself . Stan's dad Randy uses the N-word on national television and becomes the subject of hate - facing a sort of modern-day twist on racism , with people calling him " the N-word guy " and not allowing him to shop in stores or go anywhere without being confronted . He's even chased down by a pack of rednecks who take issue with his degradation of an entire race . As a subplot , Cartman takes issue with a midget teacher who ends up trying to fight Cartman . Hopefully the episodes will continue with this strength and won't deteriorate over the season's progression .
Simply Superb - - One of the Best Films of All Time !	Of Mice and MenAmazingly superb film based on the novel of the same name involves two Depression-era workers ( Gary Sinise and John Malkovich ) running away from the law and landing a decent-enough job at a ranch where they harvest crops and hay . Malkovich is amazing as the big , dumb , strong man who was " kicked in the head by a mule as a kid , " and Sinise - - who also directed - - proves here that he isn't only a terrific leading man , but also a wonderful director in the vein of classic films you just don't see anymore . Simply supberb . Probably one of my new favorite films . Rated R for language , some violence , adult subject matter and a scene of brief sexual innuendo . out of
" Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is a bizarre but wonderful movie , a very strange and remarkably tender experience .	" How happy is the blameless vestal's lot ! The world forgetting , by the world forgot . Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind ! Each pray'r accepted , and each wish resign'd . " - Alexander PopeMichel Gondry's " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is a bizarre but wonderful movie , a very strange and remarkably tender experience , which I suppose is only to be expected from screenwriter Charlie Kaufman , the man behind " Being John Malkovich . " The film was produced by Focus Features ( " Lost in Translation , " " 21 Grams " ) , a company which strives to offer original , quality films to the true cinema lovers . If the company keeps producing films this good , they may become hugely successful in the future , if not already . The previews portrayed the movie as a bouncy , cheery comedy in the vein of " Adaptation , " the last film written for the big screen by Charlie Kaufman , when it is really a tender movie about love and romance . This is Jim Carrey's best performance to date , and may open the eyes of his prejudiced haters who have only imagined him as Ace Ventura and a certain cable guy for his entire career . No snippy quotes , outrageous humor or bizarre antics in " Sunshine " - - Carrey plays a true , realistic , three-dimensional character named Joel Barrish , who plans to have memories of his girlfriend , Clementine ( Kate Winslet ) , erased by a new company called Lacuna , after he discovers that she herself has had the procedure performed only a week before . Joel meets with the company's founder , Dr . Howard Mierzwiak ( Tom Wilkinson ) , and is informed that the procedure - - although " technically " brain damage - - is on par with a heavy night of drinking . " Nothing you'll miss much , " he is told , as he plunges into a bizarre world of long forgotten memories . The entire process of the operation is quite fascinating , really , if a bit reminiscent of an idea founded by none other than one of Kaufman's favorite writers , Philip K . Dick , who wrote the source short story for the Ah-nuld movie " Total Recall . " All items relating to the person you want erased from your brain are assembled together , and the technicians at Lacuna ( Mark Ruffalo and Elijah Wood ) then " map " an outline of your memories , which are supposedly stemmed together . I have my doubts about the seriousness and remote possibility of such a procedure being performed , and the explanation is quite simply utter bull , but we don't care because the entire erasing of Joel's memories serves as a backdrop for a deeper meaning : If you could forget about past romances , would you really want to ? And if so , would you be willing to sacrifice all the good ones , along with the bad ones ? The conclusion that " Sunshine " arrives at is , to be totally truthful , as honest as can be . During the procedure , Joel's subconscious realizes that it doesn't want to let go of its memories of Clementine , and so begins a strange labyrinth of fragmented memories , constantly changing surroundings , and mental materializations of Clementine . The movie is like a very bizarre dream , when you're trying to interact with people , but they're not responding , and you shout and try to get their attention but they don't seem to notice . Joel's entire odyssey of the interior of his mind makes " Being John Malkovich " look normal - - but as I didn't like " Malkovich " very much , and thought its strangeness was unjustified , it fits perfectly in " Sunshine " - - there are some great special effects , such as when Joel is wandering through his own memories , drifting in and out of sleep , hearing the voices of the technicians erasing his memories and watching as objects and areas around him vanish and deconstruct . It's so bizarre but yet also so beautiful . Gondry was a former music video director ( his complete works are available on DVD ) and he is the perfect candidate for this project , having worked with Kaufman before on the 2001 flop " Human Nature . " It seems that he has finally found a unique directing style that ties in perfectly with the underlying themes of the movie . There is a very deep message in " Sunshine , " and it is arguably Kaufman's deepest film to date . Love and romance and memories of both have rarely been examined as thought-provokingly and tenderly as they are in this wonderful motion picture . The movie has a very profound message that all viewers should pay attention to . There are many small intricacies in the film , surely picked up on more thoroughly on repeat viewings , and the entire construction of the movie is completely enthralling and intelligent . I saw two people leave the rather empty theater during the screening I attended . It tanked in the US and I predict it will do the same in the UK , which is a shame , because this is the smartest film of 2004 and has the most to say about our lives than any other film this year . While everyone flocks to see the new Denzel Washington action movie , " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is forgotten , which is quite depressing - - people would rather spend their money on forgettable entertainment than view something unique that has something important at its core . I think what the movie finally asks us after its long , emotional journey , is would we want our own memories erased ? And if so , what would the consequences be ? A lesser film might examine this idea poorly - - " Sunshine " is not . It is perfect in almost every conceivable way , and anyone who complains that it is not original must be joking - - in my entire lifetime , this is one of the most unique film experiences I have ever had . " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is a beautiful movie , eloquently voiced by Gondry , firmly constructed and rooted in an eerie nightmarish fantasy land where anything is possible . It's beautiful , it's bizarre , it's exceptional , it's funny , it's lovely , it's touching , it's witty , and it's one of the best movies I have ever seen .
A bruising , hard action movie with enough humor and chemistry between the two lead actors it will satisfy even the least of cop-buddy fans . One of the greatest films of all time .	Some Spoiler Herein . " I guess we're gonna have to register you as a lethal weapon . " - Danny Glover , " Lethal Weapon . " There's such a flow and deep character progression that helps make " Lethal Weapon " what it is today - - a funny , action-packed , and yet also quite intelligent cop-buddy film that owes its success in part to the smartness of its script , the solid direction by Richard Donner , and the interaction of its two lead stars , Mel Gibson and Danny Glover , who bounce jokes and one-liners off each other with such comic timing and gruffness it makes one wonder why the strict comedies released nowadays can't be half as funny as this mixed-genre buddy film . " Lethal Weapon " is a very tough film , brutal and vicious . Roger Ebert described it perfectly when he said , " A movie where you and your date grab each other's arm every four minutes and you walk out black and blue and grinning from ear to ear . " That's exactly how I feel when I'm done watching it . The later sequels were extremely good given that the formula of these type of films usually get old very quick - in fact , as sequels go they surprisingly never really grew old in formula at all . But they did seem to gradually lose the toughness and brutality of the first film , at least after the second , something that helps elevate it to a type of hard action movie status . Those looking for a soft buddy comedy have rented the wrong movie . The strength of the film lies within the hands of its two lead stars ; it is firmly rooted and all else flows with ease and an almost simple splendor . Mel Gibson plays a Mad Max gone homicidal . Danny Glover plays a retiring cop stuck with a lethal weapon of a partner for his last few days as an officer of the law . They'll be lucky to make it through the next week without killing each other first . It opens high up in the night sky to the song " Jingle Bell Rock " and comes to focus in a naked woman's apartment . She's drugged up and walks to an open ledge overlooking the landscape above and below . She jumps . The next day . Sgt . Roger Murtaugh ( Glover ) is having his fiftieth birthday . He's retiring from the police force . As he so aptly puts it , " I'm too old for this [ feces ] . " Murtagh's bad day gets even worse when he's assigned a new partner named Martin Riggs ( Gibson ) . Riggs is suicidal , the police force has their suspicions of this , and so they team him up with Murtaugh as a way of ( a ) seeing if he's just playing crazy to get a pension and ( b ) to get him out of their way . Murtaugh thinks he's playing crazy to make some extra cash - until he watches Riggs put a gun in his mouth and almost pull the trigger . " You really are crazy . " Then the two men stumble upon a drug smuggling operation that goes back to the days of the Vietnam War . Things get personal when Murtaugh's family is in danger . Murtaugh's daughter is kidnapped and the two men have to find a way to get her back alive . Most films like these are just shouting matches between the two cops . They typically have a paper-thin plot with lots of shoot-'em-up action . " Lethal Weapon " is smarter than this - - it has shouting , it has plenty of shoot-'em-ups , but it also has a good plot - - enough plot for at least ten of these buddy films , The actors are terrific in their roles . Danny Glover's family man is absolutely convincing . I especially like throughout the four films when someone will make a remark about how old he is - - like his daughter mentioning his beard making him look older in the first film - - and he just stares in a mirror and looks at himself with that , " I'm getting older . I can't believe it " look . Mel Gibson is perfect as Riggs , a suicidal maniac who doesn't care if he goes down until he finds something to live for . The audience finds out early on that his wife has been killed , and her death has pushed him over the edge to the point where he has to think of a good reason not to blow his head off each day . There's a very tense scene when he's putting a gun to his head , then in his mouth , and he starts crying and trying to think of a reason to live . Later he tells us what the reason is : " The job , " he says . Most cops in films have families like Danny Glover's character . Riggs truly has nothing but his job , and if he dies carrying it out he couldn't care less . It's startling how effective a film this is . It's bruising , dynamite , action-packed storytelling , but it never forgets its plot , its characters and their progression , nor the dramatic side of the movie . Anyone not touched by Riggs ' pre-suicide scene probably should seek help . Here is one of the best films of all time . - John Ulmer
Despite some bad reviews on release , " Casino " is closer to Scorsese's older work than any of his other recent films . . .	" Casino " ( 1995 ) , a visceral examination of the Mafia's influence on the casinos of Las Vegas in the 1970s , is also the so-called " companion piece " to Martin Scorsese's " GoodFellas " ( 1990 ) . Both films star Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci , and were written by Nicholas Pileggi . Some even go so far as to claim " Casino " is a semi-remake of " GoodFellas . " And many critics found flaws regardless of its connections to the earlier mob film . " Go in interested and you may find your interest tested way past the limit , " wrote Mick LaSalle in the San Francisco Chronicle . " ' Casino ' is not about people , just Vegas . It's an ambitious film - - but also a scattered , unfocused one . " Viewing the movie a decade after its release , it holds up well . The film's real strength lies in its narrative and unflinching examination of its characters . Sam Rothstein ( played by Robert De Niro ) isn't a nice guy , and never really gains our sympathy . Nicky ( Pesci ) occasionally exhibits acceptable behavior , but if the film has a villain , it's him . And Ginger ( Sharon Stone in the best role of her career ) is selfish , spoiled and depressing . Critics didn't get it . " ' Casino ' runs a little under three hours , but ( you ) will feel like it is at least five due to the plodding pace by editor Thelma Schoonmaker , " wrote Internet critic Steve Rhodes . Rhodes , along with countless other reviewers , complained about the level of violence ? suggesting an NC-17 rating would have been more appropriate . Whether you will like " Casino " or not depends entirely on your tolerance for character-driven films ? and , of course , heavy violence . Ironically , despite its flaws , " Casino " is closer to Scorsese's older work than any of his other recent films ? " Taxi Driver " and " Raging Bull " did not feature likable people , either . Whereas we followed Henry Hill's journey from youth in " GoodFellas " and felt empathetic towards him , " Casino " drops us square in the middle of Sam's story and there's no connection ? this will either alienate or enthrall you , depending entirely on your taste in cinema . I personally love studies of characters ? especially ones that examine the evil inherent in man , and Scorsese is brilliant at revealing these things . His movie exhibits recognizable elements ? a whiz-bang style with quick-cuts , rapid zooms , a diverse pop-and-classical music soundtrack ( with no less than four or five Rolling Stones songs ) , and of course , his famous tracking shots ( here , he stages an impressive three-minute examination of a casino without breaking until we exit the front door ) . But " Casino " doesn't confine itself to the restraints of Scorsese's styling . Here he goes hog wild with the visuals ( more so than usual anyway ) , soaking up the vivid colors of Las Vegas , absorbing the dizzying array of flashing bulbs and tacky bright clothing . Editor Thelma Schoonmaker , Scorsese's long-time collaborator , experiments with digital editing for the first time here ? and employs some new techniques that are subtle but make a subliminal impact . The title sequence , designed by Elaine and Saul Bass , is simultaneously dazzling and haunting . The performances are almost flawless . De Niro is Sam " Ace " Rothstein , a legendary gambler who is chosen out of the blue to maintain a new casino for the Las Vegas Mafia . Sam explains the economics of the system ? the mob take their cut of the profits , the rest goes where it should , and everyone remains happy ? so long as nothing goes wrong . When Ace's old friend Nicky shows up in Vegas he begins to orchestrate a ring of violent robberies ? becoming the new leader of a vicious gangster force that threatens to destroy Ace's chances at cutting it straight . Since Nicky is a made man , and Ace is Jewish , he can't stop him ? but fears their new lifestyle will only lead to misery . In the meantime Ace falls for the beautiful call girl Ginger ( Stone ) , who doesn't love Sam , but marries him for his wealth . Her heart really belongs to her ex-boyfriend / pimp ( played by James Woods ) , and at first Ace believes he can tame her into submission ; but her free spirit ruins their lives and destroys Ace's confidence . The movie does have its blunders , and is not on the same level as " GoodFellas , " but would at least make the list a few titles beneath it . Some scenes seem unnecessary , and Nicky's violent attack with a pen does seem a bit reminiscent of an almost identical sequence in " GoodFellas " when Pesci attacks someone at a bar . And as enthralling and entertaining as " Casino " is , it never really matches the overall energetic exuberance of " GoodFellas " ? they are , despite their close ties , very different films in a cinematic sense . Still , this is a great film , well made and daring . You'll probably either love it or hate it , but there's no denying its powerful impact on the viewer .
On par with " The Godfather " and " Goodfellas " . . .	" Once Upon a Time in America " is a film set free of time ; it spans many different years and , like " Citizen Kane , " never tells the audience where it is . As many times as I watch it , I can never guess what is going to happen next . And watching " Once Upon a Time in America " on the new extended DVD is like revisiting an old friend , finally seeing a masterpiece in its entirety . Many people complained of the choppiness in the three-hour-version of the film originally released in 1984 - and the new four hour version puts all the pieces together and is truly marvelous to behold . This is the dirty , gritty version of " The Godfather . " It has an incredible amount of violence , especially for a film made almost twenty years ago . I'm not sure how much violence , sexual content and so on was in the original cut , but this extended version is pretty close to an NC-17 rating . The film stars Robert De Niro in one of his most memorable yet forgotten roles . He plays Noodles , a gangster operating sometime during the 1930s . Noodles grew up during the early 1900s , and on the streets he and four other kids started their own crime operation . After a local crime lord named Bugsy gets jealous and murders the youngest member of Noodles ' operation , Noodles returns the favor and kills Bugsy . Apprehended by police , Noodles is sent to jail for years . Sometime , years later , Noodles is released into the free world . He isn't a changed man , either . His old crime buddy Max ( James Woods ) picks him up and introduces him to the old gang members . Soon they are back in business , working for Frankie ( Joe Pesci ) . This is the truest definition of an epic . " Once Upon a Time in America " is one of the most forgotten gangster films , and yet it is ironically one of the best . It took director Sergio Leone almost ten years to get this motion picture to the screen . Sergio's original script treatment - the outline for the story - was 200 pages long . Just the outline . Soon he employed numerous writers to redo the script , and they bounced it up to 400 pages . There is a saying that for every page in a film script , there is one minute of screen-time . You do the math . After the long scriptwriting process , they then had to get permission to film the movie , from the author of the novel this film is based upon . Then , after that struggle , there came the film itself . How to turn such a bold narrative into a compelling film ? What techniques should be used ? Where to start ? The beginning of the film opens up during the 1930s or sometime around then , fast-forwards to the 1960s , then flashbacks to the early 1900s . It skips around a lot . This makes the viewer active , trying to figure out where and when they are . It is an element that gives a film rewatchability . Roger Ebert pointed out that " Citizen Kane " is set free of chronology , and the same goes for " Once Upon a Time in America . " Sergio Leone is the master of extreme close-ups and wide frame shots , seen in " Fistful of Dollars " and here with wide shots of busy streets . In one scene a young girl ( pre-stardom Jennifer Connelly ) walks along a street , and Leone pulls the camera up , up , up and back , back , back , revealing the entire street . Soon she is lost in the crowd . The same thing is done with De Niro's character as a child , and we lose image of him in the crowd , but then Sergio uses an almost invisible dissolve and we come back upon him . The acting by De Niro is superb . His character , Noodles , is probably the character in this film who is most in-touch with his feelings . We often feel for him , but numerous times in the film he does things disturbing and sickening and we are repulsed . One scene extended in the DVD is the controversial rape scene between De Niro and Elizabeth McGovern . After it is all over , Noodles climbs out of the back seat of the car and walks to the side of the road , standing there , looking into the distance . Many people say this is guilt because he knows what he has done and is ashamed . I don't think so . During the film he rapes numerous women and doesn't seem to mind at all . I think the point Leone was trying to make is that De Niro's character has no idea how to treat or respect women . His entire life he grew up around women who were treated as objects ( such as the young prostitute who lived in his apartment complex ) . So when Noodles stands by the side of the road , this is not from the guilt of what he has done - it is from the guilt of not knowing how to treat a woman , not knowing what to say , not knowing what to do . Not knowing how to respect her . His entire life he was taught that women were just there for pleasure , but when he stands by the road this is a sign that Noodles is starting to think this may all be wrong . It is the guilt of naivety , not self-awareness . " Once Upon a Time " is the master of gangster flicks . Two other tremendous gangster flicks , " The Godfather " and " Goodfellas , " have gotten the respect they rightfully deserve over the years - but " Once Upon a Time in America " has been seemingly ignored - up until know . I hope that this DVD sparks a newfound interest in the film , because no one should go a lifetime without seeing this moving motion picture .
Brilliant , unsettling and underrated	Everyone knows " Citizen Kane , " not so many remember " The Stranger " from 1946 , a quiet , low-key thriller that is unrelentlessly paced and flawlessly acted . It stars Orson Welles as a Nazi war criminal who has escaped to middle-America and claimed a new life for himself ; when a stranger comes looking for him , his entire life is tossed upside down and he even becomes suspicious of his wife's intentions . ( Resulting in a darkly gripping scene . ) This movie is one of Welles ' finest and probably one of the greatest of all time . His direction is top-notch and although it may not be quite as showy or glossed-over as " Citizen Kane , " and the film's scale is not as epic , it doesn't need to be . This works very successfully as a simple low-key thriller and the fact that it doesn't try to achieve anything more is one of its better traits . If this were made nowadays no doubt it would be overblown , lacking intelligence and totally predictable - - this is none of the above . It's a must-see film and , as a thriller , certainly should be classified as one of the all-time best .
A great family film for all ages	First off , I'll say that I own both Toy Story movies , I don't like this one any better than the first one , I'fd give them both 4 stars , for creating something very hard to do in todays age . A family film for all ages to enjoy . The plot is after a greedy Toy Collector steals Woody ( voiced by Hanks , once again ) , Woody finds out he once had his own show named " WOOOODY'S Roundup ! " , and in the show had a deputy cowgirl Jesse ( Joan Cusak ) and a Prospector by the name of Stinky Pete ( Kelsey Grammer ) who is still in his original box . And last but not least , a horse named Bullseye . Meanwhile Buzz and the gang go on a search for Woody , but time's running out for them , because Al the greedy toy collector is going to ship Woody and his new friends out to Japan for a reasonable amount of money . And Woody's new gang is convincing him to come with them . Filled with laughs for all ages , Toy Story and TOY STORY 2 are great for all ages . I especially liek in this one , after Woody wrips his arm Al calls in a toy repairman , who is none other than the old chess player in one of Pixar's first mini-movies . You can find the short with the chess player on A BUG'S LIFE , another Disney / Pixar film . 4 stars for both movies , and now I think I'll go comment on the original Toy Story
Carlin at the top of his game	Arguably George Carlin's most famous and best performance in years , " Back in Town " came late in his career but combines all his best trademarks - rants on abortion , religion , sex , politics , bodily functions , and capital punishment . Opening with a vicious rant against " pro-life conservative Americans , " Carlin begins bringing up points such as , " These people value the sanctity of life - while you're a sperm . " He then bitterly moves on towards the death sentence , noting its proposed expansion to cover drug dealers . " You can't give the death sentence to people who don't care about dying ! " If you are new to Carlin this is the best place to start - it's easily accessible and is funny , witty and a scathing attack on American society .
Fans of " The 39 Steps " need to see this . . .	Before Alfred Hitchcock struck gold with such well known films as " Vertigo " and " Psycho , " he made films in his native country : England . It was in the UK that he filmed such 1930s classics as " The 39 Steps , " " The Man Who Knew Too Much " and " Sabotage . " Among these was another slightly forgotten classic , 1938's " The Lady Vanishes . " It starts as a cheery lightweight romp , it becomes a suspense-filled mystery , and it ends as an engaging thriller . Most movies nowadays get stuck in a rut and become nothing more than a run-of-the-mill action extravaganza set in a simple plot which serves as the way to get the characters on screen . Hitchcock did something else : He cared about the plot , stretched it out and made it elaborately intriguing , and then filled it in with the characters afterwards . There's a mastermind behind this , and it belongs to that big horror master himself . " The Lady Vanishes " is one of his best early films ( and it would be his last British film ) , a true sign of what was to come in the later years of his life . It was remade in 1979 with Elliot Gould and Cybill Shepherd , but lacked the freshness and striking narrative that the original contains . In Germany , prior to World War II , a young woman travels cross country in a train , with an eccentric woman known as Miss Froy ( Dame May Whitty ) as a companion . Froy is a short little woman who reeks of naivety and innocence . But perhaps not everything is as plain and simple as it seems - - after falling asleep on the train for a short time period , Iris ( Margaret Lockwood ) , the young traveler , awakens to find Miss Froy absent from her seat opposite herself . The worst thing of all is that no one recalls having seen a little old lady aboard the train . Iris looks like a delusional loony , and she even starts to doubt the story herself , when odd clues start to turn up throughout the train . Enlisting the help of Gilbert Redman ( Michael Redgrave ) , a goofy man who is crazy enough to believe Iris ' story , the two search in a frantic race before their train meets its arrival and Miss Froy is unloaded - - if she's even still on the train . The fundamentals of the story lie in its plot , and also in its characters . They're all lovable , from Gilbert to Caldicott ( Naunton Wayne ) and Charters ( Basil Redford ) , two traveling men looking to get back to England for a cricket tournament . After the train is stopped towards the end of the film and a band of Germans tries to board the plane , one of the men quips to the other something to the effect of , " We'll never be back for the cricket match , now . " It's interesting how so many mysteries make so much sense by the end , but you can't for the life of you guess the ending ahead of time . Sometimes this is not the case ( I guessed the " surprise " ending of " Identity " from the trailer ) , especially nowadays with each mystery film being a retread of " The Sixth Sense . " But back in the Hitch days , most every mystery was a complex one that had a totally unexpected climatic ending . Filmed on an extremely low budget , " The Lady Vanishes " surprisingly boasts some amazing special effects in some areas , at least for the decade the movie was filmed in . One of these is when Gilbert climbs the exterior of the train , and on the opposite tracks another train swooshes by , knocking him backwards . You find this type of low-budget effect nowadays in homemade movies , but then it was quite good . But other scenes are not quite as exquisite . The opening scene post credits , in which the camera swoops down into a small German village , is filmed well but the background and foreground are both models . If you look closely , you can see that the village folk walking along the street aren't actually walking at all - - they're miniature figurines ! Look for the little toy car that drives by behind the building - - stuff like this is classic ! But even with a horrible budget Hitchcock manages to control the scene the way he wants . It shows that even with a minimal amount of money he still tried to make everything intriguing and mysterious . And that he did . Not only is " The Lady Vanishes " one of the best mysteries of all time , it's one of the best films of all time , too . It takes a while to start , but once it does , does it ever ! It's low budget , yes , but not nearly as hard to make out as " The 39 Steps , " one of Hitch's earlier British films . There are a lot of Hitchcock fanatics out there , and they may not have even heard of some of his earlier , lesser known films . Plus , they may be turned off by how hard it is to make out dialogue and scenes . ( " The Man Who Knew Too Much " is notorious for being hard to understand . ) And so for interested Hitchcock fans , your journey starts here . Note : Towards the end of the film , look for a quick Alfred Hitchcock cameo . He's the man at Victoria Station who walks by with a cigarette . stars . - John Ulmer
Unheralded	What would you do if you found out that your spouse was having an affair outside of your marriage ? Most likely what most people do when it happens to them - - go to marriage counseling or seek a nasty divorce . Edward ( Richard Gere ) does something different : he kills the man his wife is seeing and tries to cover up the crime . It is , in a way , the perfect murder - - no one else knew about the affair his wife was having , no evidence traced the victim to his killer . At least that is what Edward thinks as he rushes to attend his son's school play . Soon the irony starts and the tension builds . Edward gave his wife , Connie ( Diane Lane ) , a snow globe as a present . She then gave it to her lover ( Olivier Martinez ) . And when Edward finally confronts his wife's newfound boy toy prior to the killing , he sees the globe sitting near his bed . " Where did you get this ? " he asks , before delivering a massive blow to the side of his enemy's face and inadvertently killing him with the glass ball . It's an accident . He didn't mean to kill the man and he didn't even mean to overreact . But as the reality of the affair bombards his senses , Edward literally collapses , sent into a spiraling downfall of vengeance and anger . It's Richard Gere's best performance - - ever . I'm not a fan of Gere , but he brings so much raw intensity and reality to his character here that it's hard to not realize his performance as one of the best of the decade thus far . Observe his facial features as he examines the bedroom of his wife's lover . Imagine yourself in his place and imagine yourself not reacting the exact same way . But Gere is also able to bring a touching sense of love and humanity to Edward . His affection for his wife is as clear as sparkling water , and the day she comes home after encountering her new boyfriend he suspects something is wrong . Watch Gere in this film and you'll soon find yourself reconsidering whether or not he's that bad of an actor . I know I did . And you actually empathize with him . This is the man whose films have made more money the more he has become naked on-screen ; the man who is renowned for being a playboy hotshot and a sleazy celebrity pretty boy . But yet in " Unfaithful , " Gere abandons this self-made image , and plays a meek , nerdy family man living a modest life with a wife and a son . He wears glasses , lives an ordinary wife and actually respects his wife . His performance is spot-on and heartfelt , to say the least . I could have imagined almost anyone playing this role , except Gere . His performance is amazing . After killing Martinez and dumping the body in the back of his car , Edward takes the snow globe home . He places it on a shelf behind many other souvenir globes . Imagine Connie's surprise when she sees it there , and imagine the irony in the situation : they both know that they know each other's secret . Yet since they both are shameful of what they are done , they are too scared to confront each other , for fear of being accused of their own crimes . " Unfaithful " is one of the most elegant and firmly constructed thrillers in years - - realistic , cruel , ironic , and irreverently erotic . It's not your standard-issue sleaze . It's not all heavy on sex and style like " Basic Instinct " and it's not pure stupidity , either . It's actually a thriller rooted in a touching story of marriage and faith , and everything else gradually follows thereafter . Like " A Simple Plan , " " Bound " and " Fargo , " " Unfaithful " is about one single event that suddenly causes a chain reaction of horrific ones . In " A Simple Plan , " the moment that Hank took the cash was the moment his life changed forever . The moment that Corky's plan proceeded forwards in " Bound " was the moment that all hell broke loose and everything went wrong . And the moment that Jerry Lundegaard sent those two bumbling idiots on their way to kidnap his wife and hold her ransom was the same moment in time that his life would begin to dramatically fall apart , almost overnight . And the moment that Edward strikes his wife's lover with a small glass snowball is the moment that both of their wives - - his own and his wife's - - change forever . I love these sorts of movies , the kind that take your average , innocent passersby and place them in an unfortunate chain reaction that leads to a major downfall in their lives . Why do I love these movies ? I think for the same reason that has made them all so successful : we love to watch characters corrupt themselves and get caught in conspiracies where they are literally fighting to stay above water . The scene in " Fargo " where Jerry's plan falls apart all at once is a great example of this . This is Adrian Lynne's crowning achievement . It's glossy and masterfully , beautifully constructed . It's eerie and realistic and has a noticeably strong , yet strangely subtle , presence . I cannot imagine a more effective , sensitive and touching adaptation of this story that will surely hit close to home for many people out there . Even if it's not relative to your life , you will still find yourself deeply absorbed by the lead characters and their turmoil . " Unfaithful " has its flaws , but I find it hard to think of a more effective and beautiful thriller of its genre made within the past five years . stars . - John Ulmer
Was once quite brilliant - but after the original cast all left it went downhill	During its heyday , " E . R . " was one of the most brilliant television shows ever made - I never really got into it while it was on TV , but re-watching older episodes on DVD with no commercials or weekly waits for new shows makes it far easier to enjoy and become addicted to . Seasons 3 , 4 and 5 were really when the show hit its peak and got into a good stride - there was equal character development and , apart from some side-steps , pretty consistent and engaging story lines for the main actors , of whom were included George Clooney , Anthony Edwards , Erik LsSalle , Julianna Marguiles , and Noah Wyle . The show never seemed to resort to the schmaltzy factor of others in its genre , and the medical side of the show was highly accurate and incredibly realistic - you really do believe you're in an Emergency Room . If you compare the realism of this show to soap opera disguised as medical drama such as " Grey's Anatomy , " the difference is palpable - it's clear that the advisers on the show definitely steered the crew in the right direction . The conception of the show was actually the product of Michael Crichton , the author of " Jurassic Park " and " Sphere , " who was once a Harvard Medical Student and thought a realistic and gripping show about the profession would be a hit . He was right . Unfortunately , somewhere around the sixth season or so a lot of regulars like Clooney and Marguiles left and were replaced unceremoniously by notably less endearing characters . I suppose on a show that encompasses so many characters , the producers of " E . R . " believe any character can be replaced by another - but when you're watching a show for six years and are used to the same characters and have built kind of an emotional connection with them , to see them " replaced " as if nothing has happened is hard to get used to . It's no surprise that the ratings soon dropped in proportion to the amount of original actors leaving the show - Clooney departed for Hollywood and they hired a lookalike later on to replace him which I found highly amusing . Overall , the show is one of the best to ever air on television , but the past five or six years in particular have really damaged its reputation and sunk it lower and lower . And recently it has turned into exactly what it once wasn't : a standard weekly soap opera disguised as a drama . I mean , when you start killing off your characters in fantastic sequences such as helicopters falling out of the air onto people , you know you've hit rock bottom . And killing off Dr . Greene's character by giving him a brain tumor was definitely the nail in the coffin for the further seasons . I do recommend watching the show up through about the sixth or seventh season , because those seasons are truly brilliant evidence of television's positive traits ; but after that it's largely forgettable .
It is About Time an Animated Film This Great Came Around . . .	" The Prince of Egypt " features an all-star cast , including Val Kilmer , Ralph Fiennes , Michelle Pfeiffer , Sandra Bullock , Jeff Goldblum , Danny Glover , Patrick Stewart , Helen Mirren , Steve Martin and Martin Short . One of the most interesting aspects of this film is how Dreamworks Pictures got such a talented crew to star in an animated film , much less an animated film with morals and a Christian message . Following the Biblical story of Moses , " The Prince of Egypt " does take a few creative liberties , but compared to so much other Hollywood garbage based on Bible stories , this film is very true to its roots . Another thing that amazed me about this spectacle was the animation . Over the years , Disney has gone from great animation like " Snow White " to films like " The Emperor's New Groove " - - good story , but the animation is just too " cartoony / ish , " if you know what I mean . However , " The Prince of Egypt " does not follow Disney's regress . It marks a revolutionary breakthrough for animation , and will hopefully boot Disney up a notch , as I've heard it has already with Disney's newest animated feature , " Lilo and Stitch . " If you are in the mood for a true , amazing , family-oriented animated motion picture , see " The Prince of Egypt , " which also boasts excellent songs and characters , worthy of overtaking Disney stature . stars - - John Ulmer
One of the funniest television shows ever	It gave the Wayans Brothers , Jim Carrey and Jennifer Lopez ( credited as a " background dancer " ) a claim to fame . . . and fifteen years later it's still kickin ' . It seems like lately - since the release of the DVDs last year - " In Living Color " has taken off more and has grown in popularity with younger crowds . . . however I've been watching it for years , even when it was only on Comedy Central late nights and Jim Carrey was only starting to make a name for himself . The show ran for four years ( from 1990 - 1994 ) and featured some great characters over the years . Wayans had his clown character who they were supposedly going to make a movie spin-off about at one time , and Carrey had his ageing firefighter ( " let me show ' ya something ! " ) who didn't know squat about the job . Used to crack me up so much ! My absolute favorite skit was when Carrey played Mr . Rogers and he's browsing through the porn section of a local suburban video store . Comic genius . I've heard some white people say they have no interest in watching this because it's an ethnic show and was geared towards Latinos and blacks with its early ' 90s rap music and dancing . . . but that's really a myopic view of the show and I think anyone who passes it by based merely on the fact that it has a minority cast ( for the most part ) is missing out on one of the great shows of the 1990s - and probably of all time .
What Without Bob ?	" What About Bob ? " Bill Murray plays Bob : a claustrophobic , paranoid , delusional , compulsive , schizophrenic freak . Richard Dreyfuss plays Leo Marvin : a great psychologist famous for his baby steps theory . Bob visits Marvin , who informs Bob he is going on a family vacation and will schedule an appointment when he arrives back . Bob , being the impulsive man he is , hunts down Marvin via various techniques , all the way out to Leo's family vacation spot in a sweet old town in the middle-of-nowhere . Soon , Marvin realizes that Bob is not going to let him go - - so Marvin snaps , and goes crazy . He can't stand Bob . Bob is unintentionally gaining the favor of his children and wife , and he also spends the night at Marvin's house . Marvin loses it . Bob doesn't stand a chance . Or does he ? This film comes off more as a horror than anything . In fact , it would have good potential as one . But instead we are treated to an equally-compelling comedy that loses steam and credibility at the end . Fortunately , the first three-quarters of the movie makes up for the last quarter . Bill Murray is the perfect choice for Bob : a sweet , good-natured man with a kind heart . He doesn't intentionally cause mayhem in Marvin's life ; he just does . Richard Dreyfuss surprises as Leo Marvin . Who would have thought that the man could be so funny ? And Frank Oz , director of " Dirty Rotten Scoundrels , " " Bowfinger " and I believe voices characters in " Sesame Street , " directs this film just right . There's a side of lunacy , paranoia , cartoon , but most of all family in the way he presents everything and everyone . I particularly like one scene where Marvin's child ( that kid from " Hook " ) is going to bed ; Bob is sleeping in the room with him , and they have an intimate conversation regarding death . Bob gives the kid high hopes for a future without really trying to per say . Not only is the scene ironic , but it's a bit touching . Unfortunately , the last twenty minutes or so rapidly excels towards over-the-top craziness . It's a bit like the ending of " Clifford " with Martin Short and Charles Grodin : they both would be more fondly remembered without the bad endings . Overall a fun film , that would have been about ten times better without the ending it contains . It still has a great re-watch factor , however , and scenes like the dinner at Marvin's house plenty make up for the bad outcomes . On the plus-side , comedies like these really aren't made anymore . stars - John Ulmer
" Taxi Driver " with comedy ? It works !	" Better to be king for a night than a schmuck for a lifetime . " As Travis Bickle's universally known line of dialogue from " Taxi Driver " has a deep meaning ( " Are you talkin ' to me ? Well I'm the only one here " ) , Rupert Pupkin's closing speech of his first-ever standup comedy routine in " The King of Comedy " finalizes the entire meaning of the film , wrapping it up in one short sentence . Is it better to have one great day versus nothing ? Do the ends justify the means ? Two questions all of us ask ourselves at one point of time in our life . The comparisons to Travis Bickle seem stronger on paper than they do in the film . The most striking resemblance between the two stories is that both contain the central theme of a man snapping and doing something apparently crazy . Both films star Robert De Niro , and both are directed by Martin Scorsese , which makes for an interesting discussion of relation . Some may even say that it's a sequel in sorts . Rupert Pupkin ( De Niro ) is a lonely man whose daily life and routines consist around one man : Jerry Langston , a talk show host and comedian who is followed by a horde of rabid fans , including Masha ( Sandra Bernhard ) , a fan to rival Pupkin , who admits that he has waited nine hours at a time outside Jerry's recording studio to catch a glimpse of him as he is shoved into limos by fancy bodyguards . Rupert is given a rare opportunity to speak to Jerry one day as he saves him from Masha , who assaulted Jerry with kisses and hugs . It is as they drive away together and Rupert talks to Jerry that he proposes his long-time dream , which is to appear on Jerry's show as an aspiring standup comic . Of course , he's had no experience . But Rupert swears he would be great on stage - - he's studied Jerry for years and knows timing . Langston gets these psychos all the time , but he doesn't realize just how strong a fan Rupert is until he shows up at his private home with suitcases and a girl claiming to have been invited . " I made a mistake , " Rupert says . " So did Hitler , " Jerry barks . Jerry Lewis plays Jerry Langston in a self-referential ( and very unflattering ) role . It's his finest to date . The guy is a scumbag who barely tolerates fans and is cruel . Lewis has lost his manic , energetic , annoying comedy rituals seen in films such as " The Nutty Professor " and has moved on to real acting that demands true skill . Gone are the squeaky voice and the crossed eyes . Here is perhaps the wretched soul who really exists behind Jerry Lewis , as we know him . All of us exaggerate , but Rupert does so to an extreme . After being shoved out of Jerry's limo the night of their confrontation with an invitation to call Jerry's secretary to schedule a meeting , Rupert shows up at Jerry's office claiming to have an appointment . " Is Jerry expecting you ? " he is asked by a clerk . " Yes , I don't think so , " Rupert says . Jerry and his workers , who deny his taped comedy routine that we never hear until the end , shun Rupert . " Oh , I see , this is what happens to people like you from all of this ! " Rupert yells at Jerry . " No , " he replies . " I've always been like this . " So Rupert breaks down and kidnaps Jerry with the help of Masha , demanding a spot on his TV show as a ransom payment . He commands that he will be referenced to as " The King of Comedy " ( hence the title ) , and to further demonstrate the innocence of Rupert's character , when he shows up , he fails to see the gravity of the offence he has just committed . Rupert is twisted , as you may have guessed by now , but not in a Travis Bickle kind of way . He doesn't see the bad in the world - - he's oblivious to it . " You're so naive ! " Masha tells him . I wouldn't be surprised if he took it as a compliment . Rupert lives in complete isolation , kept locked up with his mother and living his life by what he says on TV . His dialogue and mannerisms are all clichéd - - he says the kind of stuff one would expect a poorly written film to feature . When he tries to impress a female bartender , and when he tries to make small talk with Jerry , he frightens both individuals ( similar to Travis Bickle frightening Senator Palantine and the Secret Service Agent ) . As Rupert takes the stage at the end of the film , his entire dreams have been laid forth in front of him and he takes them by the throat . It is in that truly startling moment we've all been waiting for when we learn that Rupert is not only funny , but pretty darn talented . If the movie had used Rupert's life-long dreams as the butt end of a joke , if he had turned out to be an absolutely horrid comedian ( which is what I honestly thought would happen ) , the film would have little effect . But as a filmgoer and critic , it ranks as one of the most surprising scenes I have ever laid eyes on . stars . - John Ulmer
One of the funniest films ever made !	" The scariest comedy of all time ! " boasted the poster taglines for " Young Frankenstein . " When a tagline pokes fun at itself , you know you're in for a real treat . Such is the case with Mel Brooks ' " Young Frankenstein , " one of the greatest of all comedies and one of the only modern day films able to convince me from the start that I really was watching an old 30s film , and not a film made in 1974 . Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder are both fans of Mary Shelley's " Frankenstein , " and so when they collaborated to write the screenplay for " Young Frankenstein , " I can only assume that it was a fun experience for both of them . They reworked the story of Frankenstein and his monster into a smart , occasionally hilarious , always enjoyable , classic comedy that helped put Brooks on the map after " The Producers " ( " Blazing Saddles " also helped quite a bit ) . Some fans of " Frankenstein " could consider the film almost sacrilegious , I suppose , but that wouldn't be fair . It's not a poke at any flaws in " Frankenstein " - - it's a well-thought-out continuation of Baron von Frankenstein's legacy , with an added pinch of slapstick comedy thrown in for good measure . Gene Wilder is Dr . Frederick Frankenstein ( " Frahnk-un-steen , " not " Frank-en-steyn " ) , grandson of the crazy old loon Baron von Frankenstein , who attempted to re-animate dead matter in his creepy mansion in Transylvania years ago . Frederick is a successful neurosurgeon , eager to put his past behind him . When a student asks him questions about his grandfather and research into re-animation , he is quick to change the subject . Then he inherits his grandfather's castle in Transylvania and makes the long , weary journey there to acquire ownership . Greeted by Igor ( pronounced " Eegor , " not " Eyegor " ) , Frederick Frankenstein is soon haunted by his grandfather's interests . I guess the craving for re-animating dead tissue is just something that runs in one's blood ! He stumbles upon an old chamber underneath the crumbling mansion , home to an assortment of odd inventions and textbooks ( including " How I Did It , " by Baron von Frankenstein , which is a bit of an in-joke for readers of Mary Shelley's story - - they'll understand the joke , perhaps , more than most audiences ) . After finding a dead body in a graveyard and accidentally inserting an " Abby Normal " brain into it from the help of Igor ( Marty Feldman ) , Frederick Frankenstein creates a new Monster ( Peter Boyle ) , who is taken into custody by the townspeople and then escapes , finding an old blind man ( Gene Hackman ) in a cabin somewhere . He then kidnaps Frederick's bride to take her as his own and Frederick realizes that he must put an end to the Monster before everything in his life falls apart . There isn't much to say about a film like this . The comedy works , the style works , everything about it works . It's classic . Everything in it is classic Mel Brooks comedy . I suppose the accounts of Brooks ' and Wilder's off-screen fights during filming are pretty well known . In one instance , Brooks got so mad at Wilder that he threw an object at him . Later he called Wilder and said , " Who was that jerk that threw that thing at you today ? He should be fired ! " It was because the two minds clashed together . Both being extreme fans of " Frankenstein , " I suppose both men had their own unique opinions as to what , exactly , the film should be about , and what , exactly , should happen in it . But for whatever the reason , despite all their arguments the film has turned into a masterpiece . Wilder's performance is extraordinary . After turning Leo Bloom ( " The Producers " ) into a nervous , paranoid , timid man , Wilder does a 180 here and makes Frankenstein into a self-assured , mean , forthright character - - giving us the feeling that he's been hassled his entire lifetime by nosy reporters researching into his grandfather's case , and he's tired of it . Filmed on-location in the original " Frankenstein " set , the film partly works because of its respect for the old horror films . The famous Universal horrors from the 1930s and 40s are spoofed in this film , and that is primarily is what truly makes it stand out from the other films in the genre . But Brooks and Wilder don't insult them . They compliment them and poke fun with them - - not at them . Brooks tried this formula once again in 1995 with " Dracula : Dead and Loving it ! " , which starred Leslie Nielsen as Count Dracula , although the outcome was not as smart as " Young Frankenstein " and not as convincing . Brooks did a great thing by filming " Young Frankenstein " in grainy 30-style black and white , reminiscent of old films such as " Dracula " or " The Wolf Man " or " Frankenstein " itself ( not coincidentally , Brooks makes more than a few references to other Universal horror films , too ) . Part of the greatness of this film is the manner in which it is filmed . I can't imagine " Young Frankenstein " in color . But then again , I can't really imagine " Spaceballs " in black and white . . . stars . - John Ulmer
Hey , think of it this way : It's nowhere near as bad as " The Godson " !	" Mafia ! " a . k . a . " Jane Austen's Mafia ! " is a funny movie , but you have to expect minimum laughs when you see it . Too many people expect maximum laughs when they start watching for a few reasons : 1 . This is from the guy who helped bring us " The Naked Gun : From the Files of the Police Squad ! " and " Airplane ! " I guess an exclamation mark after the titles of his films are mandatory nowadays . Anyway , his name is Jim Abraham , and he made up the middle of the ZAZ group : Zucker , Abrahams and Zucker ( yes , Z & Z are brothers ) . In recent years they have gone their ways , each making their own . One Zucker ( David ) made " Baseketball " ( which competed against " Mafia ! " at the box office ) , another Zucker ( Jerry ) made the 2001 release " Rat Race , " and the A-in-the-middle ( Jim ) made this : " Mafia ! " . So when you watch it , you immediately expect a ton of laughs , when , in fact , this is more of a lesser comedy . Even though he's not in this flick , I'll compare it to lesser Leslie Nielsen movies . For example , remember " Dracula : Dead and Loving It ! " compared to " The Naked Gun ! " ? That's what " Mafia ! " is - - the lesser brother . It's not quite as witty or humorous , but it still delivers laughs that never exactly amount to someone saying , " That was great ! " 2 . It offers a fairly ensemble cast , and the ads make it look pretty funny , especially after seeing Jim Abraham attached to it . 3 . You've got to expect the most from anything with an exclamation mark at the end of the title . But while it's funny , it is , like I said , the lesser brother of a film like " Airplane ! " or " The Naked Gun ! " . The plot is a loose spoof on " The Godfather Trilogy , " with jokes ranging from gags about a small boy emigrating to America ( see Don Corleone ) and a man having to kill someone in a restaurant , where he looks for the gun in a bathroom ( see Michael Corleone ) . The actual plot , if there is one , is about a man who grows up in a Mafia family , and must come to facts regarding his heritage and what he must do to carry the family legacy after his father dies . The whole thing is a setup for lots of " Godfather " gags , which see a young Mafia-Boss-to-be causing trouble in Italy and moving to America , where he sets up a family of organized crime . ( Which I kind of already told you before , but I'm laying the plot down a bit thicker here . ) I've said it before and I'll say it again : The funny thing about slapstick is that even if the film is lousy , you're guaranteed to get more laughs evoked out of you than most subtle comedies will generate . For example , you watch a subtle comedy , and you really enjoy it . But you just didn't laugh very much while you were watching it . You watch " Mafia ! " and it generates dozens of chuckles at least , but somehow it's still not as good as the subtle comedy you watched before which generated about five laughs . Why is this ? The only reason I can think of is because in failed slapstick while there are many laughs , not many of them are as great as they could be . Slapstick ( also ) doesn't usually have great plots . Subtle comedies usually build up deeper characters , emotions and plots , making them better . So really , slapstick and comedy are on two very different levels . I can laugh a hundred times more watching slapstick and still say I liked the regular five-laughs-an-hour comedy better . I just thought that was interesting to point out . In the end , I wasn't exactly disappointed in " Mafia ! " but it could have been a lot better consider what it was spoofing . I mean , it set out to spoof one of the most fondly remembered film legacies in recent years , and it came back a bit crippled , if somewhat humorous . There's no excuse for why it didn't live out to its full potential : It had a great director , a great cast , and like I said before : It sets out to spoof one of the best film trilogies of all time and comes back a bit crippled , if humorous . It could've been better , but I still had a good time watching it . stars - John Ulmer
Fellini's visionary , autobiographical masterpiece	" 8 " is an extraordinary , visionary masterpiece from Fellini , and one of his best films . After browsing through the IMDb forums for the movie , it seems many people are upset about its low ranking on the site's " Top 250 " - one fan noting it has dropped below " Pirates of the Caribbean . " But does it really matter where it stands on a list that includes movies like " Lord of the Rings " in the top five ? " 8 " concerns itself with a film director named Guido who has what Fellini described as " director's block " - he can't film anything . Stressed and pressured , Guido begins to retreat into his dreams and memories of passed relationships and experiences . This movie is mind-boggling from beginning to end - its opening in particular is classic , with Guido's dream , and the man in the car floating into the heavens and then falling into water . This movie has inspired many great directors of today ( most noticeably Terry Gilliam , who has an introduction on the wonderful Criterion Collection DVD ) and it would be a crime if you're a film buff and decide to pass on this .
Poetic Justice	" Reservoir Dogs " is one of the rare films that lives up to its hype . Much like " Goodfellas , " this film did not let me down , but I actually enjoyed it much more than I ever dreamed . The film plays backwards , a bit like " Memento . " It opens at the end , and recounts the last few days in the lives of crooks pulling a jewelry heist . But as we learn immediately in the beginning that the heist went wrong . Someone ratted to the cops ; the cops showed up during the heist and all heck broke loose . But I may be getting ahead of myself . In the beginning of the film , Mr . White ( Harvey Keitel ) and Mr . Orange ( Tim Roth ) in a car . Mr . Orange has been shot . We don't know how , he just has . Mr . White brings Mr . Orange to a warehouse , and the two men enter . Eventually Mr . Pink ( the wonderful Steve Buscemi ) shows up , followed by Mr . Blonde ( Michael Madsen ) , a crazy madman who opened fire on civilians at the jewelry heist . For the duration of the film , we are left to wonder who the cop is / was , and how everything happened . Things open up bit-by-bit . We are shown every Mr . ' s life in the last few days before the heist , and what all happened . Of course , the men aren't really Mr . White , Mr . Pink , Mr . Orange and Mr . Blonde . These are their fake names for the sake of the heist . But we learn their real names and the parts they play in he robbery as the film moves on . And the last twenty minutes of this film is one of the most absorbing twenty minutes in film history . Things appear all of a sudden . For example , how Mr . Orange got shot . Once you realize who shot him and why , things start to make more sense . Because knowing who Mr . Orange is makes you wonder why he got shot . But who is Mr . Orange ? Is he the cop ? Or is he someone else ? See the movie for yourself and figure it all out . " Reservoir Dogs " ain't no " Goodfellas , " but on the level of film it is a masterpiece . The opening scene is one of the most mimicked scenes in film history . And the performances are extraordinary . Harvey Keitel fills in the shoes of Mr . White , who some said Robert De Niro would have been better for . In all respect , I do like De Niro better , and admit that the character carries many traits that De Niro's characters usually do . Cool under pressure . Smart . Always thinking . You can see his brain working like a clock . But I must also admit that Harvey Keitel did a very , very good job of bringing his character to life . You can almost see the chemistry between the actors boiling up . I like films where there aren't many characters , because you will almost always find the actors on screen giving some of the best performances of their lives . They are locked with these other actors , and their performance just gets stronger with every line they speak . Take , for instance , the tension between Mr . White and Mr . Blonde . Keitel and Madsen really go at each other , and it's great . And Buscemi , my personal favorite of the group , is not only funny , but fun to watch on screen . His performance is as great as his humor . " Reservoir Dogs " isn't for everyone . It's rough , tough , gruff and at times sickening ( see the police torture scene ) . But if you can handle some very strong violence and language , then this film is for you . It's got some amazing talents , some fairly unknown at the time , bringing together one well-written , well-directed film . Quentin Tarantino has said to be losing his charm for making a good film lately , but no one can forget this film . stars - John Ulmer
Strong dialogue and believable characters taking precedence over stupid action and obnoxious caricatures .	Note : This review has been severely chopped to comply with IMDb's word limit . Full review can be found at wiredonmovies . com - - " There's not that much of a story , really . What do we do ? We drive around . Maybe he's going to get married , maybe not . It's really more about the fact that it's a very honest portrayal of a group . . . of guys that people relate to on a very personal level . " - Kevin Bacon on the " Diner " DVD interview reelIn the opening scene of Quentin Tarantino's " Reservoir Dogs , " a handful of characters debate the true meaning of Madonna's hit song " Like a Virgin . " Long before " Reservoir Dogs " ( a decade , to be exact ) , there was Barry Levinson's directorial debut , " Diner , " a coming-of-age tale concerning five Baltimore residents in their 20s who try to get past crucial points in their lives . In a similar scene to that in Tarantino's masterpiece , four friends - - played by Steve Guttenberg , Mickey Rourke , Daniel Stern , and Paul Reiser - - argue over which singer produces better make-out music : Mathis or Sinatra ? " Presley , " says Rourke's character , ending the conversation with blunt confidence . And that's that . The movie has plentiful rich dialogue , some of it seemingly pointless , most of it subtly touching and meaningful . The film has a lot to say about the difference between friendship and true love . " I love you , " one of the characters tells the woman he wants to marry . Fixated on an object behind him , her eyes cold and a grim reflection of deep contemplation , she replies , " You're confusing a friendship with a woman , and love . It's not the same . " In a very different sort of way , it tackles the same material as " When Harry Met Sally , " but it doesn't stop there . The film is masterful in its ability to present us with a group of people we sincerely care for , and who all seem very real - - more so than the characters you'll find in most movies . The dialogue was primarily improvised , especially by Paul Reiser , whose debates with fellow pals are the highlights of the film . Even after the truly poignant ending there is a discussion about evolution that plays over the credits . " Did you hear about this evolution stuff ? " Reiser asks . He starts to mock the theories which would later become widely considered as truth by scientists , despite lack of actual evidence supporting the theory . Amusing , how the movie has so much to say about so many different things . " Diner " is a film that connects with us because we can all sympathize with its characters and their inner motivations . Eddie ( Guttenberg ) is afraid of getting married ; Schrezie ( Stern ) is married and wishes he wasn't ; Boogie ( Rourke ) would like to finally find a girl he could respect ; Bill ( Timothy Daly ) wants to get married to the girl he loves but she doesn't want to . The whole movie appears to be focused on girls , and indeed most of it is , yet there's a lot of other stuff that's even deeper . Fenwick ( Bacon ) is what Bacon himself described as a " permanently drunk , " sick kid who doesn't know what he wants out of life , thrown out of his family and wandering the streets looking for a meaning to his life . He's the character who is so lost he doesn't even seem to care very much about girls . Prior to " Diner , " Levinson was a nobody - - and perhaps that is why his first project is that most in tune with its characters and their natures . The movie was very risky when the studio released it in 1982 - - there was talk of shelving the finished product for fear of losing money . Reluctant , MGM finally released the movie into theaters , but with poor advertising - - it tanked . Yet it received some of the greatest reviews of the year . In an effort to convince MGM , Levinson showed a screening of the movie to critic Pauline Kael , who gave it an exceptional review , as did the majority of critics at that time . On the surface , " Diner " seems rather boring - - it's just a movie about nothing , really , except growing up . Yet it captured the hearts of many , becoming a cult sleeper that still entices new fans to this very day . It's a film of many integrating mixed genres , each one carefully balanced and perfectly maintained throughout . " Diner " has some of the best dialogue of all time , not to mention a handful of Oscar-worthy performances . This is not Levinson's best but it's one of his most deeply touching projects . It has a lot to say about many things and it actually gets around to addressing them - - which is rare to find in any movie . This is a true gem .
" We can't stop here . This is bat country ! "	" Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " is a twisted , outlandish venture into the mind of a warped junkie , a reporter who is traveling to Nevada in order to cover a Hells Angels motorcycle race , along with his Samoan attorney Dr . Gonzo ( Benicio Del Toro , who gained forty pounds for his role ) . " We were somewhere around Barstow when the drugs began to take hold , " is the line that opens the movie in an expeditious manner , as a red convertible roars from right to left , in the direction of Las Vegas . The vehicle's trunk is packed with an abundance of deadly drugs . " We had two bags of grass , seventy-five pellets of mescaline , five sheets of high-powered blotter acid , a salt shaker half full of cocaine , a whole galaxy of multicolored uppers , downers , screamers , laughers . Also a quart of tequila , a quart of rum , a case of beer , a pint of raw ether , two dozen amyls . " The narrator of the story is Raoul Duke ( played by Johnny Depp ) , a balding , stumbling shell of a man , constantly smoking or inhaling drugs , his body overloaded with deadly substances . He is in a permanent daze throughout the entire film , constantly consuming drugs every time the camera pans onto him . He is also the reporter , the main character of the film , and he is in such a daze that after the motorcycle race is over , he's not even sure who has won . So sitting cramped in his increasingly trashed hotel apartment , he begins clacking away mumbo-jumbo on his typewriter , desperately trying to make sense of the seemingly frenzied world surrounding him . The year is 1971 , the beginning of the after-effects of the frivolous sixties . Raoul still seems to think that he is living in the past decade . He explains that his carefree ways were out of place for such an area as Las Vegas , and in one of the funniest scenes in the entire movie , he visits a conference detailing the dangers of substance abuse , and inhales cocaine throughout the seminar ( led by the late Michael Jeter ) . The movie is based on the semi-autobiographical memoirs of Dr . Hunter S . Thompson , who traveled to Las Vegas in 1971 with an overweight " Samoan lawyer " named Oscar Zeta Acosta . According to Thompson's novel , " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas , " originally published at the end of the decade , they broke many laws and were essentially high on various dangerous substances the entire time . In his novel , Thompson used the character Raoul Duke as a relation to his own past , and the pair's psychedelic weekend as a metaphor for the Lost America . After the sixties , during the Vietnam War , Americans were deeply confused , and turned to many dangerous substances for answers . Some critics claim that " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " glamorizes drugs . If anything , it demonizes them ( sometimes quite literally ) , and the constant drug use is merely present to account for the duo's wacky behavior . That's not to say that " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " is a harmless film . Under the wrong circumstances , it could be misunderstood , which is why it was nearly slapped with an X-rating by the MPAA , and - - along with the book - - caused outrage when it was released in 1998 , alongside the utter disaster " Godzilla . " Depp is the reason the film's narration succeeds as well as it does - - a lesser actor might come across as annoying . Depp seems to be channeling the physical freedom of Steve Martin and the slurred speech patterns of Thompson himself - - although he was given ample time to pick up on Thompson's mannerisms , since they spent much time together prior to shooting and throughout the filming process . But what is essentially so fascinating about " Fear and Loathing " is its blazing style and blatant uniqueness . Brought to the screen by Terry Gilliam ( " Monty Python and the Holy Grail , " " Brazil " ) , one can only expect the movie to be strange , but it is severely distorted to the point of insanity . What is even more intriguing is Gilliam's use of his camera , cinematography and backgrounds - - the camera essentially takes on the role of a third person , as it is constantly moving , positioned at awkward angles against harsh , dizzying backdrops , wallpapers and carpets . The overall effect of the movie is the equivalent of getting high - - only this probably isn't as dangerous . Probably . In some ways , " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " is an utter mess of a movie - - pointless , sick , but yet it is also occasionally hilarious , and I found myself very entertained . I am not usually a fan of these sorts of movies , which only helps account for my extreme surprise in finding that I not only enjoyed " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas , " but found it to be an important art house movie - - bizarre , mystifying , strange , bewildering . It is as if Fellini directed a Cheech and Chong movie . It is an experience unlike any other , and although I can completely understand the negative reviews it received upon its release years ago , I find myself somewhere in between the haters and the die-hard cult fans . The film was released on a Criterion DVD last year ; a sign that despite its infamous background it actually has a fairly strong legion of fans . In some ways the movie is as confused and wandering as its narrator . It's somewhat pointless , but incidentally , I think that is the point .
How To Make A Timeless , Original , Hysterical , Satirical Comedy .	Every summer Chevy Chase takes his family on a little trip . This year he went too far . Chevy Chase stars as Clark Griswold , the typical American businessman . Well , almost a basic businessman . He works in food preservatives . Beverly D'Angelo plays his wife , Anthony Michael Hall plays Rusty , his teenage son , and Dana Barron plays his daughter Audrey . This summer , Clark has decided to go all out and take a vacation with his family to " Walley World , " a theme park spoof on Disney World , owned by " Roy Walley " . Basically , this film starts out strong and ends strong . There are many gut grabbing scenes , and the film never resorts to gross out humor . The biggest gross out is when Clark bites into a sandwich a dog leaked on , but that's a different story . Along the way to Walley World , everything and everything that can go wrong does , and Clark ends up with Aunt Edna ( Imogene Coca ) , who adds more fun to this wallop of a comedy . The laughter just escalates more and more as we see Clark's dreams flush down the toilet farther and farther , and I can't tell you how much I laughed at some of the scenes . " Vacation " isn't typical National Lampoon fare . Chevy Chase gives by far his best performance ( akthough he acts just as well in " Christmas Vacation " ) as Clark , a real optimist , go get'm kind of guy , who completely snaps toward the end of the film . The rest of the cast does well , and Beverly D'Angelo does surprisingly well as a house wife . The two children , Audrey and Rusy , squawk at each other , but not to the point of obnoxious , which is another good thing about this film . Is it no surprise that John Hughes , the king writer / director of the 80's comedy films wrote this , or that Harold Ramis ( Groundhog Day , Ghostbusters , Striped , Analyze This ) directed the film ? With cameos by the likes of John Candy , Eugene Levy , Brian Doyle Murray ( who played Clark's boss in " Christmas Vacation " ) , and more , " Vacation " is a comedic triumph of the eighties that is now an icon of how to make a good comedy . stars - - John Ulmer
Haven't laughed this hard in ages !	I don't think I've laughed as hard as I did watching " The Gang Gets Crippled " as I have since the early days of " Simpsons " and " SNL . " There are so many priceless jokes in this episode that it took me about two or three times re-watching the episode to catch a lot of the gags . The episode begins with Charlie getting run over by a car and being put in a wheelchair . The gang heads to a local strip club where they find out it's easy to score girls while disabled due to sympathy . Charlie gets two free lapdances . Earlier that day , Dennis ' and Dee's father ( Danny DeVito ) arrives announcing he has divorced their mother and is giving away all his money to the poor and wants to be a part of " the gang . " He ends up taking advantage of Charlie's disabilities at the strip club to pick up strippers ( " I want to live in filth again " ) and the two decide to become roommates . The next day Charlie gets a brilliant idea to dress up as a Vietnam war hero in the strip club . ( And seriously , the result of this is by far the funniest single line I've heard in a TV show in years - " What happened to you , honey ? " - " Viet-Gd @ mn ' Nam is what happened ; now go get me a beer , bch ! " And as DeVito wheels him away : " What , I was working her ! " ) Don't get me wrong , you have to have a sick sense of humor to enjoy this . Dennis and Rob go to the mall in wheelchairs to pick up girls , and both pretend to have Polio . ( " That's why I'm rockin ' the FDR look . " ) They end up having wheelchair races and beating each other up . The end of the episode is a killer . I won't ruin the joke , but just make sure you don't leave in the last minute or so . Overall this was a delightful blast of fresh air - after seeing so many stale sitcoms , this proved to me that FX really is becoming the new lead in character-driven comedy-dramas ( such as the equally superb " Rescue Me " which isn't quite as funny , however ) . My only hope is that " Sunny " doesn't become so popular that it attracts controversy and sells out and dumbs down its humor . Right now it's on par with the early episodes of " South Park " and " SNL " in terms of how irreverent its humor is - and personally , in my opinion , its plots are better than most comedy films I've seen within the last few years . Definitely must-see TV .
Much better than expected and continually held my interest	Robert Duvall's father dies and he finds out that he has a long-lost brother - a black man ( played by James Earl Jones ) . He treks to the big city in order to find his brother ( against his wishes , as he's a prejudiced Southener ) and soon finds himself stuck under the company of Jones and his rambunctious family . This story isn't always as realistic as reality but it draws good allusions and parallels - I watched it very late one night expecting to fall asleep and , much to my surprise , I was completely entertained ( and even touched ) by the film's sweetness . It's an incredibly easy viewing - it touches on some deep racial issues but is never disturbing . It is a good family film with some strong morals and a rewarding finale that is a bit too simplistic , perhaps , but nevertheless uplifting and a nice reminder of many values many of us forget . A worthwhile , extremely underrated experience - highly recommended .
Perfectly directed and led by strong characterizations	" Deliverance " is a twisted and stomach-turning tale of four city slickers ( Jon Voight , Burt Reynolds , Ronny Cox , Ned Beatty ) who take a canoe trip outing into hillbilly town . After setting out on a lake and heading downstream , the four men encounter two hillbillies in the woods who tie up Voight to a tree and then sexually assault Beatty . But then Reynolds comes along in another canoe with Ronny Cox and shoots one of the hillbillies with a bow and arrow , killing him . The other hillbilly runs off into the woods , escaping unscathed . But their worst nightmares are just around the corner . Soon , the men must fight for their lives to get back to civilization alive . I saw this film at a very young age and almost definitely should not have as the rape scene really disturbed me . I stayed up to watch it late-night on television ( an edited version ) but I could still tell what was going on , they just cut the nudity . By today's standards the scene might not be as explicit as films such as " Irreversible " and " Baise-Moi " bu particularly when the hillbilly tells him to " squeal like a pig , " it's quite stomach-turning , especially to see at a younger age . When I was older I discussed the film with my father , who isn't much of a film fan . He would not watch it . I remember he told me that he thought the only reason people were still talking about it twenty years later was due to the fact that it had a rape scene . He considered it to be a sick movie that was trying to be controversial and explicit just for the sake of being so . I don't agree . Now that I'm older and have seen the film again through adult eyes I view it as a classic . One , I like it because it is deep , compelling and engaging . The characters are introduced expertly and we get to know them . Two , the whole paranoid and fear of being stranded in the middle of nowhere in an unfamiliar environment is freaky . And let's face it : any movie that has homicidal inbred rapist hillbillies for villains is going to scare the s out of you . stars
Required viewing .	If you were to imagine yourself as a newspaper journalist , one of the best conspiracies you could ever find yourself stumbling upon would undoubtedly be the infamous Watergate Scandal . And reporters Bob Woodward ( Robert Redford ) and Carl Bernstein ( Dustin Hoffman ) were the two men who found themselves head-above-water in an elaborate cover-up that went all the way up the chain of command to the United States President himself . On June 17th , 1972 , Watergate hotel security guard Frank Wills spotted a possible break-in at the Democratic Party's National Committee . Some apparent CIA agents were arrested for breaking and entering , and later held at a trial , where Bob Woodward first found out that they were more than mere intruders . They worked for the government . After researching into the matter , Woodward soon realized that one of the intruders had the name of a political figure scrawled in a notebook located within his shirt pocket . And with the help of Carl Bernstein , a fellow Washington Post reporter ( and a veteran of the field ) , Woodward followed the slight tracks , and the two men soon found themselves unearthing a shattering conspiracy that did indeed lead all the way up to President Richard Nixon , the 37th President of the United States of America , himself . Based on Woodward and Bernstein's own memoirs , William Goldman's Oscar-winning script makes for a brilliant subtle mystery ; a true-life story as amazingly honest and forthright as it is entertaining and engaging . It would always remain the late Alan J . Pakula's greatest film , and its standing as one of the top films of all time on many various " great movies lists " is certainly merited . It's a shame that both Hoffman and Redford were snubbed by the Academy Awards for their performances here . As Woodward and Bernstein , the two are amazingly convincing and bounce dialogue off of each other with striking clarity and realistic quality . Hoffman , who is top billed , appears in the film less than Redford , but gives just a performance just as amazing . He would gain an Oscar twelve years later for his portrayal of Raymond Babbitt in " Rain Man , " his finest performance to date , but his role in " All the President's Men " is of a different caliber . Woodward and Bernstein are two complete opposites , and at first they rub each other the wrong way - - Bernstein , a veteran reporter , takes one of Woodward's articles and starts making revisions . " I don't mind what you did , " Woodward says , " I just mind how you did it . " Even though it's not anything special , this if my favorite scene in the movie , and perhaps the best example of just how well these two actors are able to bring their characters to life . The movie is a mystery but not in the traditional sense . Almost all of us watching the film already know how the story is going to turn out , but the way it makes its dynamic revelations seem surprising and its story tense and exciting is one of the greatest examples of compelling filmmaking . For the film's opening sequence , in which Woodward and Bernstein's condemning news is written on a typewriter , Pakula used sounds of gunshots to clarify each separate key of the device striking downwards . The 37th President of the United States of America was sentenced to a sort of death with the publishing of that article , and the bold gunshots add an extra depth and meaning to this fact . " All the President's Men " has no hidden morals , messages , meanings . It's just a true story about something that happened , brought to life on the big screen by a great director , an influential screenwriter and two of the best actors of all time . No , it's not going to have you thinking after it's over , but if anything , it's the type of movie that will generate a lot of talk instead . And more often than not , that's a good thing . stars . - John Ulmer
Probably one of the funniest , most irreverent shows on television - I love it !	When " South Park " first came out I ignored it and thought it was another passing fad for young kids . I never gave it a chance . I figured it was crude for the sake of being crude and didn't watch more than five minutes of an episode . Then I saw the movie , which I thought was just about one of the funniest things ever . " Uncle Fa " had me in tears . " Bigger Longer & Uncut " is one of the most consistently funny films I've ever seen , and even as a musical / animation it worked very well . So I gave the TV show another chance . I fell in love with it . I watch it much more now . Sure , it is very crude , sometimes a bit too much so . It's immature and juvenile . But it's also very clever . Trey and Matt get away with loads of stuff other people could never get away with on TV . I don't know how they keep pushing the boundaries . One episode of " South Park " had so much swearing , a profanity was outlawed from public television " indefinitely . " Sometimes the gags are kind of lame because they are so juvenile , but for the most part it's really funny . Matt and Trey basically do all the voices including celebrity impersonations . I think this is a really clever , really self-satirical show that's sorely needed during times as restrictive as these . With " South Park " pushing the boundaries on public TV we can all sleep safely at night knowing our nation's level of tolerance is in good hands .
Hyperbole aside , this is still a brilliant crime thriller and the best " comic book movie " I've ever seen . The entire cast is phenomenal and Heath Ledger is a revelation .	" Batman Begins " was a critical success and audiences loved it , but - - probably due to the declining quality of the films before it - - not many people turned out to see it during its theatrical run . It was also one of the first of many " franchise reboots " - - yet wasn't clearly advertised as such , and it took time for people to realize that , as a film , it stood on its own from the Burton / Schumacher pictures . It was a modest success ( with less than $400 million worldwide ) but its real legacy was solidified on DVD , where it became a best-seller and one of the defining titles of the Hi-Definition DVD war . Positive word of mouth slowly but surely turned it into a blockbuster - - the exact opposite of , say , " Spider-Man 3 , " which opened huge but performed poorly on home video . Warner Bros . had a keen eye on the progress of the film , and obviously they had a lot of faith in director Christopher Nolan and the areas he could take the sequel . Whereas " Batman Begins " was a so-called " origins story " and therefore had to sacrifice a few action sequences in favor of character progression , " The Dark Knight " showcases a more organic blend - - there's plenty of action here but there's also just as much character development , which - - at least for me - - made it somewhat more satisfying . I really liked " Batman Begins , " but " The Dark Knight " makes it look like child's play . Everybody was excited about The Joker , of course . And Heath Ledger is phenomenal . I remember when he was first announced for the role in 2007 and the Internet community was , to say the least , quite baffled . I was one of the few who seemed to have an understanding of what Nolan was aiming for , but some fans despised the casting decision . It wasn't until the first theatrical trailer that a palpable shift in mood could be detected - - suddenly all the doubters realized just how dark Ledger was taking it . And shortly thereafter , of course , Ledger died tragically of an accidental prescription drug overdose - - I still remember reading the news that day in January and thinking , " What ? ! " I don't think anyone ever expected it . And although in retrospect it was a rather selfish thought , one of my first questions was : " How will this affect ' The Dark Knight ' ? " Thankfully , Ledger had completed filming on the movie and his last performance is a real tour-de-force . Many people have a nostalgic affinity for Jack Nicholson's Joker , but honestly , I've always found it to be Jack playing Jack more than anything . Yes , it's a fun performance , but not nearly as terrifying or convincing as Ledger's , whose Joker isn't just funny or just dark - he's a twisted psychopath . You find yourself laughing at the most horrific aspects of his behavior , but often times - - such as after the brilliant hospital scene - - you can hear people's laughter in the theater gradually fade as they realize what they're laughing at , and how disturbing it is . And that's really the key to the character , and something even Nicholson didn't land on : the horror behind the laughter . Everything about his performance - the verbal and facial tics , the little details - causes you to believe this psychopath is real . Nolan's remark about Ledger being " like the shark in JAWS " is dead-on - - he isn't a consistent character in this film , but he'll suddenly appear out of nowhere ( in sync with James Newton Howard's and Hans Zimmer's schizoid " Why So Serious ? " theme ) and tear through the movie's core . This is one of the performances of the decade , and the only bad thing about Ledger's role in the film is that it's so good it almost causes you to overlook how good everyone else is . Aaron Eckhart is wonderful as Harvey Dent , and is arguably the most " human " of all the characters in the movie . I found Christian Bale's Bruce Wayne to be surprisingly downplayed in this film , but Eckhart is the one whose character has the most dramatic arc in this movie . It's a testament to Eckhart's skills that he makes Harvey both realistic and tragic - - you believe this guy is real , even though his emotional and physical transformation takes place over the course of less than an hour . Another aspect I loved is Nolan's direction - - he has found his footing here . I thought his style in Batman Begins was a bit cautious at times , like he was trying to find his comfort zone for a big franchise film , but he's far more self-assured here - - the back-and-forth editing between scenes really heightens the tension . It makes " The Dark Knight " less of an action film and more of a crime / mystery thriller - - there are some remarkable twists in this picture and the build-up is , at times , unbearable . I could go on about this film for ages , but I've already run out of room . Suffice to say , it's every bit as good as I had hoped . Is it the " best film of all-time " ( as its current ranking on IMDb would imply ) ? No , of course not . But in all honesty , and hyperbole aside , it is one of the best films I've seen this entire decade and certainly one of the most remarkable - - especially for its genre . Nolan has taken " light entertainment " and given it brains , heart , and depth - - even more so than the first time around . On top of that , he's given us villains and anti-heroes we care about - - backed by superb performances by all involved . It's a wonderful motion picture experience , and the feeling it gave me after it had all ended can only be described as " emotionally draining . " Like the best works of Scorsese or Fincher or other gritty / visceral directors , this movie left me feeling overwhelmed when it had ended - - but in a good way . If you see one movie this summer , make sure it's " The Dark Knight . "
Totally misunderstood and underrated	" Last Action Hero " was one of the most commercially-publicized films of 1993 . Millions upon millions were pushed into the extravagant advertising campaign , which included a blimp with Arnold's face being flown over the premiere . ( According to the biography " Fantastic : The Life of Arnold Schwarzenegger " by Laurence Leamer . ) However , it was being released in the throes of Arnie controversy - Sly Stallone , Arnie's enemy , had devoted millions of his own cash to exploiting Arnold as a Nazi in the hopes of ruining his prospering film career . Sly paid off a tabloid reporter ( in secret - the truth only emerged years later ) to dig up evidence on Arnie's father - and some contribute this smear campaign to the failure of " Last Action Hero . " For some reason , it is regarded as one of cinema's biggest failures , when in fact it grossed $50 million past its budget of $85 mil in theaters alone , bringing its worldwide gross to $137 , 298 , 489 . Not exactly a flop , considering it also brought in quite a bit of cash once it reached the home video market . In Hollywood , someone hears something and it becomes truth . It has become a fact that " Last Action Hero " was one of the biggest flops of all-time , even though it wasn't . And , much like its box office intake , the critical reception of the film was vastly misunderstood . " Last Action Hero " is brilliant satire - spoofing all the clichés and inner-workings of all action films , but most specifically Arnold Schwarzenegger's - beginning with Jack Slater ( Arnold ) going to his cousin's house : a bomb goes off , kills two nearby cops ( one an aging black man days from retirement ) , but Arnie is left unscathed . Then he devotes his life to tracking down the killer . This film is being watched by a young child in a movie theater . His idol is Jack Slater , and soon he gets a magic movie ticket from an old theater owner and finds himself magically transported into the cinematic world . He becomes Slater's willing sidekick - the catch , however , is that Slater is unaware that he is a fictional character , and doesn't believe the child's " lies " about his origins . " Last Action Hero " was directed by John McTiernan ( " Predator " ) and set back his career a few years ; he found trouble headlining major productions again ( indeed , he also went on to direct the 2002 flop " Rollerball " ) . However , the satire of " Last Action Hero " is sharp and consistent . For anyone who has ever seen an action film , there's plenty to laugh at here - from the movie in-jokes ( I love the F-word bit ) , to the Hollywood / celeb jokes ( loads of cameos ! ) , to the satire of violence and its influence on children , and so on and so forth . The only fault of the film is its ending - the last twenty minutes are a bit sloppy . The symbolism is too obvious ( Jack is brought into the real world ) and doesn't work out so well . It's not horrible , but it doesn't close off the film as well as it should . When " Last Action Hero " flopped in ' 93 , Arnold made a statement claiming his intentions of satirizing violence had backfired and the result made him feel uneasy . He basically said the idea of having a child in the middle of the film's events disturbed him and " didn't work out " the way he had planned . I beg to differ . I think it works brilliantly , and if you're a film buff , you should appreciate this underrated movie all the more . It's one of Arnie's most daring and unique films - how ironic that it was one of his least successful motion pictures . In fact , it's all the more ironic that a movie satirizing the banality of Hollywood fails to make a fuss at the box office .
One of the best , funniest and most refreshing shows currently on television	Dennis ( Glenn Howerton ) , Mac ( Rob McElhenney ) , and Charlie ( Charlie Day ) are all the owners of an Irish bar in Philadelphia , and " Sunny " essentially follows their awkward lives - each episode revolving around some type of political or social issue such as gun control , abortion , steroids , underage drinking , health care , and the handicapped ( just to touch on a few issues already addressed in the show ) . It begs comparison with " Arrested Development , " " The Office , " " Seinfeld " and " South Park " in its broad humor and wit , but it is completely original in its own right . The pilot was filmed on a low budget by a few friends and was picked up by FX after wards , so the show retains its low-budget feel - giving it a gritty , down-to-earth edge . " Sunny " does border on the edge of bad taste sometimes ( hell , what am I saying - it crosses the line every time ) but it contains enough satire and wit to get away with it . For example : in one episode Mac and Dennis decide to pick up girls at an abortion rally . Mac pretends to be pro-life just so he can be around an attractive woman , whom he ends up sleeping with . Later , she tells him she's pregnant . " You need to get an abortion , " he says . This type of irony runs throughout every episode . The banter between the characters in the show is what tends to be particularly funny . The actors - although novices - are all great . Charlie Day in particular has me laughing like crazy every episode . And his interaction with Danny DeVito ( who's been brought in for season two ) is hilarious . Season two is more polished so far in terms of the mechanics of the show - the characters have all been setup now and they know what they're doing - and in that regard it is seeming to get better and better with every episode . You do have to have a very sick sense of humor to like some of this - DeVito's character , Frank , is the father of Dennis and Dee , and his reason for being in the show is that he is getting a divorce and wants to relive his glory days as a youth . He tries to re-ignite a relationship with an old girlfriend of his from high school - but when he finds out she's a grandmother and not interested in doing anything wild , his attention instantly turns to the waitress and he tunes her out . It's cruel , sick and hilarious . DeVito is playing another ruthless character ( same as in " Taxi " all those years ago ) and it works splendidly . Overall this was a delightful blast of fresh air - after seeing so many stale sitcoms , this proved to me that FX really is becoming the new lead in character-driven comedy-dramas ( such as the equally superb " Rescue Me " which isn't quite as funny , however ) . My only hope is that " Sunny " doesn't become so popular that it attracts controversy and sells out and dumbs down its humor . Right now it's on par with the early episodes of " South Park " and " SNL " in terms of how irreverent its humor is - and personally , in my opinion , its plots are better than most comedy films I've seen within the last few years . If you want to see something new , different , and funny , check this out . I have a feeling it could either become huge , like the next " Seinfeld , " or - more realistically - it will become a cult phenomenon . Either way , I'll be watching .
Arguably the best comedy of the 1980s	The greatness and pure genius of " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " is that while it is uproariously hilarious , it also reveals hurt and truth , unlike any comedy I have ever seen before or since . Scenes as that in the Bravewood Inn are classics . The argument scene between Neal and Del is the turning point in the film , and it is the first time that the audience realizes they're in for more than they thought they were . There's a certain element of tenderness , heart , agony , conflict , and heartfelt emotion in " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " that makes it transcend the genre , reigning supreme . This is , in my opinion , a better buddy movie than " The Odd Couple , " and a better road travel comedy than " Tommy Boy . " This is the ultimatum and the depth of the screenplay is proof . Steve Martin and John Candy don't just act ; they embody themselves so deeply in their characters that it almost sets a standard for how comedic pairings should be . Line them up next to Chris Farley and David Spade and the differences are astronomical . Watching Steve Martin is like acting a comedian at the top of his game . Just watch his reactions . The facial reaction from Steve in response to Del's comeback in the Bravewood Inn is perfect ; we understand what Neal is going through , and Steve Martin lets us know this by placing himself in a recognizable area . We also understand Del , and that is really the key to this movie : Being able to identify with both characters almost equally . How often can you say that about buddy pictures ? I don't ever feel much sympathy for Chris Farley , if that means anything . John Candy remains one of the most underrated and underwritten film comedians of all time . Offered constant mediocre scripts during the eighties and early nineties , all the way up until his death in 1994 , he could make the material something more , something watchable . I recently viewed " Funny Farm , " a painfully unfunny film to sit through . I imagined what John Candy could have done with Chevy Chase's role , and I found myself laughing . Why ? Because John Candy can make anything watchable . Just how many times would you watch " Summer Rental " or " The Great Outdoors " if the lead actor was Jim Carrey ? There's some important content in this film , but it is never overpowered by laughs , nor vice versa . They go hand-in-hand . I come back to the Bravewood Inn argument scene . After the hilarious , ongoing insults Neal throws at Del , Del responds and says , " You wanna hurt me ? Go right ahead if it makes you feel any better . I'm an easy target . Yeah , you're right , I talk too much . But I also listen too much . I could be a cold-hearted cynical like you , but I don't like to hurt people's feelings . So you go right on and think what you like about me . But I'm not changing . I - I like me . My wife likes me . My customers like me . ' Cause I'm the real deal . Whatcha see is whatcha get . " It's creepy how much dramatic , emotional and truthful subtext sneaks into this film , and yet it only makes it all the better for it . " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " is my favorite Comedy , yes I know that I have said it before . But , it is a serious comedy that has both heart and is hilarious at the same time . Entertainment at it's best . And isn't that what movies are all about ? stars .
Schwarzenegger's baaaaaaack !	ERASER mixes great action sequences , with good acting , and stunts . ( Not to mention GREAT explosions and weapons ) I don't feel like writing out the plot on this one . I'll just tell you that it's great . It's not Arnold's best , but it's in his top ten . James Caan was perfect as the villian , and I'm glad they didn't mess up the movie with romance between Schwarzenegger and Vanessa Williams ( I think that's her name , excuse me if I'm wrong ) . Alot of action films turn corny when they do that . There are armed bad guys firing at the hero , and he has time for a kiss ( I'm NOT talking about Bond , those are meant to be like that ) . Anyway , Schwarznegger's back , and with like I said , great action , stunts ( unfortunately some bad graphics in the plane scene ) and other classic Arnold stuff , Eraser delivers . It's action , people , stop picking things apart ! - moviecritic2003
Possibly the best video game of its kind ever made .	I am blown away . I knew they had attempted to make this as theatrical and true to the roots of film noir as possible , but the depth and emotion in this is simply amazing . Some people have complained that it is too short ( I personally beat it in perhaps five or six hours ) , but this only enriches the experience because it moves along at a rapid pace and manages to come across more as a movie than a video game . They used real actors for the game and the cut scenes are more realistic than in the first game ( which looked more like a comic ) . One thing that took a while to get used to were all the differences in the characters , as well as Max Payne's new physical features in this game ( noticeably , his face ) . The previous game's model was based on " Max Payne " creator Sam Lake , whereas in this game they actually hired an actor to model Max on . I do miss the original face of Max because I had grown so accustomed to it , however - - I think overall this one looks more beaten-down and destroyed , emotionally and physically . He also looks a lot more like the typical cop character from a police movie , which I think works to the game's advantage . The first game followed Payne after his wife and child were murdered - - another aspect I preferred in the first since Max's revenge motives were more hard-boiled and raw . In the sequel , he's basically got a price over his head because he knows about a secret organization that is splitting in two over a mob war - - and he teams up with a femme fatale from the previous story ( whom he thought was dead ) to take them on . What's so great about " Max Payne 2 " is how involving and engaging it is while still managing to be perhaps the smartest and deepest video game ever made . The characters all seem real , the action is never really THAT far-fetched ( at least not in comparison to the original ) and , believe it or not , the love story between Max and Mona Sax is entirely convincing . The finale , just like in the original , is breathtaking and climactic . Is " Max Payne 2 " better than the original ? Well , that's hard to say . I think , technically speaking , yes , it is - - however , there are certain aspects of the original that I cling on to , as well as the novelty of the first game and how utterly blown away I was when I first played it . The first " Payne " did also seem slightly more gritty , but it lacked a lot of the depth that is present in the sequel . I'm big on revenge themes so the concept of the first game appealed to me more - - Max isn't really avenging anyone in this game until the last few minutes , which is a bit disappointing . He's more of a wanted man on the run . However , these are things necessary for the development of the game , story and character himself . Gamewise , I preferred the first game's weapons and they didn't sound as fake as the ones in " MP2 " ( which pop rather unrealistically when you fire them ) . On the other hand , I prefer the bullet-time in " Max Payne 2 " FAR more than in the original - - it looks awesome in this one . You can also do cooler spins and slow-motion moves while you're in bullet time as compared to the first game . I have to be perfectly honest when I say I also didn't like being forced to play as Mona Sax on two levels , nor did I find the levels themselves as fun or intricate as the first game . The first few levels of " Max Payne " ( the original ) when you're in those drug-infested apartment buildings doesn't compare to any level in the new game . I found , despite the sequel's excessive language and sexual content , that the original was darker and more intense . Nevertheless , despite a few little " quibbles , " this is - - overall - - probably a superior game to the first " Max Payne . " It's the most theatrical game experience I've ever had - - and they even have end credits with a music theme that play afterwards ! I can't wait to see an adaptation of these hit the big screen next year . If they do it right it could be one of the best films ever made .
One of the best of all comedies but also a very poignant study of male life	Having read the very good Nick Hornby novel of the same name I looked forward to " High Fidelity " quite a bit , but I never expected it to be as good as it is . This is easily one of the best comedies of all time for its laughs alone - but what separates it from other comedies ( particularly new-age ones ) is that it's a very poignant multi-layered tale that focuses , primarily , on males - and why we are as we are . Love , life , relationships , music , movies , hobbies , jobs , ticks , ups , downs - everything is here . It's to John Cusack's credit that he took a " classic " contemporary novel set in London and transposed it to Chicago - and it works just as well ( if not better ) than the British version . It shows what a universal story this actually is , if so many people from all over the world can appreciate it , no matter where it is set . What we lose here are the abbreviations such as " mate , " " cos " and other British expressions - but essentially the story is exactly the same , as is the character of Rob Gordon . Cusack proves his worth here and there isn't a single bad performance in this film , except perhaps for the love interest who tries to sport an American accent and it's quite uneven at times . Jack Black is fantastically funny and reveals once again why he's leagues ahead of other obese comedians like Chris Farley who merely relied on OTT acts and weight for laughs - Black , like John Candy , actually acts and so far in his career has turned out some really good films which is more than can be said for many of his competitors . The script has some very funny one-liners and movie / music in-jokes ( I love the " Evil Dead " bit - " Because it's so funny , and violent , it's got a kick-a$$ soundtrack . . . and it's so violent ! " ) . But at the end of the day what really haunted me ( so to speak ) about this movie long after I had seen it was the fact that it DOES stay with you ages after the credits have stopped rolling . It's poignant and really spot-on in many regards - add that to a film full of flawless performances and great direction and clever ideas and one-liners and jokes , and you've got a top-notch comedic masterpiece that places " High Fidelity " in the top ranks of American ( and British ! ) comedy - " with , " as the DVD back cover says , " a bullet . " Highly recommended .
More epic and substantial than I expected - a great tribute to Cash that also isn't totally biased in his favor	Having seen the previews and read the reviews for " Walk the Line , " and knowing its director was James Mangold , I expected a light drama with great performances . I'm glad I gave the film a chance , however , because it is actually a strong drama with amazing performances . I wasn't too thrilled by Mangold's directorial decisions on " Cop Land " ( I thought the acting there was superb also , but let down by amateurish handling ) . He has matured as a director since then . " Walk the Line " doesn't come across as being a formulaic or stale biopic - it opens with Johnny Cash's famous performance at Folsom Prison and flashbacks to his memories of childhood . It also doesn't portray Cash as a perfect hero - he's flawed , and his alcoholism , drug addiction and adultery is all exposed . Being a huge fan of Cash ( although not by any means a fan of most country music ) , I've always thought it was Cash's rock n ' roll attitude and blending of musical styles that attracted me . I didn't know so much about his personal life , but knew he had given his blessings to this project . It was refreshing to see Joaquin Phoenix do him justice . 2005 was a year of two great performances ( Hoffman in " Capote " was also wonderful ) and Phoenix really nailed Cash down to the notes he sang . Reese Witherspoon was impressive as June-Carter , Cash's wife . Their relationship was turbulent and the movie handles it tastefully . It never veers into unabashed sentimentality , yet it also doesn't become too bogged down with the negative . It provides a balanced perspective of their marriage . I found some of the co-star roles questionable ( Tyler Hilton as Elvis Presley was a huge mistake - looks and sounds nothing like him ) , but that is irrelevant in the long run since this is primarily about Cash and Carter and both actors deliver in their roles . As a recently-converted Cash fan , I see this movie as a touching tribute to his life that doesn't seem artificial , tacky or biased . As a general movie buff , I see it as one of the rare biopics that achieves epic status and doesn't fall victim to excess . Yes , the film has a few flaws - but overall I thought it was one of the best and most surprising films of 2005 . Really not at all what I had expected after reading reviews . I would take any critic who tells you it's a movie made ONLY by its performances with a grain of salt . It's a well-rounded achievement .
Good documentary about the making of the film . . .	I recently picked up " The Usual Suspects " on DVD and got a chance to view this making-of featurette , split into many separate ( but linked ) mini-documentaries dealing with the process of making the movie - pre-production / concepts , choosing the actors , filming the movie , etc . I liked the interviews with the actors . Some of them act a bit strange ( especially Del Toro , as usual , and Pollak ) but they still have interesting things to say . I also enjoyed some of the anecdotes they had to tell . I didn't know that Kevin Spacey signed onto the project long before anyone else and made a huge gamble during the pre-production phase . It also seems strange that he would be credited so far down in the film's list of actors since everyone often refers to Spacey as the guy who really got the project off the ground and was the most famous at the time . Last time I checked he was listed as the fifth actor under the credits . He should at least be second - Gabriel Byrne , Kevin Spacey , Stephen Baldwin , Kevin Pollak , et al . Anyway . . . definitely worth a look , and very interesting . I'm surprised that I'm the first person to comment on it .
Great , underrated action film	Some will tell you " Predator " is another dumb ' 80s action flick . It's not . It's very different from anything else Arnold Schwarzenegger has starred in . First of all it begins as a standard Military war film , setting up the plot for about 45 minutes ! It then morphs into a suspense-thriller / sci-fi film : Like some sort of Agatha Christie novel meeting " Rambo " via " Aliens . " It's quite intelligent and thrilling , not revealing the Predator creature fully until the very end . Part of the reason this film works , and the sequel does not ( as successfully anyway ) , is the level of suspense and mystery surrounding the Predator . Arnold Schwarzenegger delivers one of his best performances as Dutch . Granted , he isn't required to do much more than shed his upper-body clothing and look ripped , but he _ does _ do more than that - I felt sympathy for Dutch , he seemed like a realistic character , and I forgot that I was watching Arnold Schwarzenegger . He has a few good one-liners ( " Stick around ! " being the cream of the crop along with " Knock knock ! " ) but especially later in the film , his confidence stumbles and he turns into the flip-side of the typical Arnold Schwarzenegger action hero . The sequel worked as a comic-book-style creature feature but the original " Predator " is a much better film than most people give it credit for , being the rare smart action film that is solidly constructed and worth watching far more than just once .
" The horror . . . the horror " is the reality of war and its effects . . .	Spoilers . This review has been edited due to word limit . ' The horror . The horror . ' Marlon Brando , Apocalypse Now ( 1979 ) and Apocalypse Now Redux ( 2001 ) The sentence which is as famous as ' Here's looking at you , kid , ' or ' Are you talkin ' to me ? ' or ' May the Force be with you , ' or ' I'll be back , ' means a little more than some one-liners . When it is spoken it lingers in the air with an importance and meaning that does not go unnoticed . What might drive some viewers nuts is that they may never find an answer to the horror unless they re-watch the film and try to pay close observation to every single frame . What , exactly , does this line of dialogue mean ? The horror spoken of is the reality of war . The reality of moral men being so easily corrupted that they turn on their inborn instincts and kill fellow beings without any sign of guilt . When Capt . Willard ( Martin Sheen ) stands before the dying Col . Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) at the end of the film , ' The horror . the horror . ' is the realization of Willard's corruptness . He has mercilessly killed a man in cold blood as part of his assignment . This isn't a typical Hollywood ending . In most cases a character gains something , whether it be emotionally , physically , mentally or all three . But Willard both gains and loses . He gains the knowledge that he has lost his morals . And that is a shocking ending . ' Apocalypse Now ' is Francis Ford Coppola's tribute to the artistic side of filmmaking . This film is wholly different from ' The Godfather . ' It is hallucinogenic , visually dazzling , and an ode to the guilty side of human nature . At first it seems realistic , and then it becomes strange , and then symbolic , and , by the end , original in its own unique perspective of the spiritual side of warfare . This is not as much a film about the Vietnam War as it is a film about the war within us . At first it does appear to be another war film . Captain Willard ( Sheen ) is assigned by an Army Lieutenant ( a young Harrison Ford ) to assassinate a renegade American Colonel named Kurtz ( Brando ) , who is hiding out somewhere in Vietnam with a hoard of troops who more or less act as his slaves . Willard carries out his mission ' with extreme prejudice , ' heading out on a boat along with four soldiers , including the boat captain , Chief ( Albert Hall ) , Chef ( Frederic Forest ) , and a very young ' Larry ' Fishburne ( who later went on to appear as Morpheus in ' The Matrix ' ) . " Apocalypse Now " is in a many ways a modern update of Homer's Odyssey . As our main character , Willard , carries on his journey , he meets an array of original and strange characters , including Lt . Col . Kilgore ( Robert Duvall ) , who has a strange fetish for surfing , and a stoned photographer ( Dennis Hopper ) , whose lively gestures and mannerisms can be compared to those of the very much lesser Jeremy Davies in " The Million Dollar Hotel , " one of the worst films I have ever seen . Davies failed to make any connection with an audience ; Hopper does . He is like the poetic vibe between Willard and Kurtz ; he is like an interpreter going back and forth and speaking in foreign languages . In this case , he is translating Kurtz to Willard , although I'm not so sure Kurtz needs a translation of Willard . Many films are lucky enough to have one or two memorable scenes or lines . " Apocalypse Now " has many . Kilgore descending upon a Vietnam village playing Wagner's " Ride of the Valkyries " remains one of the most remembered scenes in all of film history . There is sharpness to it , a brutality to it , an ironic tone to it , and also a sense of playfulness . When Kilgore kneels down on that beach and says , ' I love the smell of napalm in the morning . it smells like victory , ' we all crack a smile . I won't lie to you : ' Apocalypse Now ' is a strange film . It isn't exactly the easiest thing to analyze . The end may frustrate some viewers if they don't understand Marlon Brando's significant speeches . But what it all comes down to , what really matters , is that this film is about the dark nature of the human psyche . The horror is the realization of war and its effects , not the war itself . Kurtz says , ' You have a right to kill me . But you have no right to judge me . ' Brando's character , Kurtz , is left to the audience to judge . To many naïve viewers he may appear as a crazy loon whose power got to his head . But that isn't what Francis Ford Coppola is trying to get across . By fighting in Vietnam , Kurtz has realized just how great he had it , and how bad some others had it . By walking through devastated villages he eventually comes to realize that we are the naïve ones , living our lives in a fool's paradise . We are totally naïve to our surroundings and possible misfortunes until they hit . By seeing how unlucky some Vietnamese are , Kurtz realizes just how easily he could be struck by something . Just how easily he could end up like the people around him . And he also realizes that the people who did this are people who have abandoned their morals and left them at the door . Many people think the horror is one thing . It is two . For Kurtz , the horror is the reality of how naïve he was and the reality of the war's impact upon men . And after Willard murders Kurtz , and hears Kurtz's dying words , he realizes it too . He realizes the effects of war . To see so many soldiers with no sense of right or wrong makes him realize the horror of what war can do to a man . And what it has done to him . The horror . stars -
A refreshingly moral story with important messages presented in a humorous way . . .	" Interstate 60 " is about a highway that doesn't seem to exist , yet somewhere in between two highways in Louisiana it does , indeed , exist . The main character of the film has a hard time trying to find it at first , for his destiny lies somewhere upon the seemingly non-existent highway . People looking for " Interstate 60 : Episodes of the Road " may have just as hard a time looking for the movie itself , as it was not theatrically released , has not been released on DVD , but continues to circulate around small theaters and film festivals since 2002 , in search of more eager viewers who will no doubt be both surprised and inspired by the film's truthfulness and sense of morals . Yet " Interstate 60 " plays like anything but a Surgeon General's warning . It isn't as openly strict or hard-nosed . It has a sort of subtle warning inside it that lets the viewer decide what it is about . It's a film that stays with you after it's over , and that's a rare thing these days . It all starts with a rich kid named Neal Oliver ( James Marsden , " X-Men " ) . Neal's 22nd birthday has just arrived , and with it a shiny-red BMW sports car , with the license plate specially modeled after his father's own personal motto . In fact , the entire convertible seems to be modeled after Neal's father's own tastes . " I woulda killed to have something like this when I was your age , " his dad mutters . We have a feeling he really would have , too . Neal makes a wish for his birthday , to find a meaning to his life . It is overheard by an odd man named O . W . Grant ( full name : One Wish Grant ) , who decides to grant Neal his wish - by sending a painter's bucket flying from above , only to come to a stop on Neal's skull . Out of it for a while , Neal wakes up again and finds his perception noticeably different . He notices things he never noticed before ; his senses are more acute . A strange doctor named Ray ( Christopher Lloyd ) explains a thing or two about perception and blindness to Neal , before Neal finds out there is no doctor on the staff at the hospital named Ray ( though that seems a bit odd , don't you think ? ) . Neal meets Ray again in a skyscraper , where Ray gives Neal a job to transport a small briefcase to Denvar ( yes , DenVAR ) , a small town located along I-60 . Neal reluctantly agrees to go on this journey in hopes of finding a girl he can't rid his mind of , and so he finally locates this nonexistent highway . Along his journey he once again meets O . W . Grant ( Gary Oldman ) , as well as Laura ( Amy Jo Johnson ) , a woman seeking as much sex as possible ; a cop ( Kurt Russell ) in a small drug-infested town ; an ex-advertising agent played by Chris Cooper ; and finally he finds the girl of his dreams ( literally ) , Lynn ( Amy Smart ) . Along his journey , Neal comes to terms with himself and who he really is , and though this is predictable the way the film gets the message across is more than ingenious . The writer and director of the film is Bob Gale , the man most people will always remember as the creator and sole writer of the three " Back to the Future " films . Gale tried his hand at directing a few times , including the 1995 " interfilm " called " Mr . Payback , " which I have not seen but have heard is a supposedly horrid excuse for a film . " Interstate 60 " is not - it is a cleverly-written little film that avoided being released into the mainstream , and for a reason : It didn't want to become Hollywoodized . It hasn't . And it shows . " Interstate 60 " is unmistakably a low-budget film , but it is all the better for it . It has some important messages that really should be seen by everyone . In a time when films like " Gigli " are invading the film market , this is a breath of fresh air , a step towards a better side of film-making , a side with morals for today's youth and future generations . There are some great messages in this film , it's a shame that the majority of moviegoers and families seeking quality films will never even see this film , much less hear about it .
Much better than expected	I sat down to watch " Midnight Cowboy " thinking it would be another overrated ' 60s / ' 70s movie . Some of my favorite films come from the ' 70s , in the same vein as " Midnight Cowboy " ( " Taxi Driver , " " Mean Streets , " " Panic in Needle Park , " etc . ) but there are many , many overrated ones as well that have gained strong reputations amongst critics for being groundbreaking - unfortunately a vast majority of them don't hold up as well today . I sort of feel this way about " Easy Rider . " ( Although it , too , is one of my favorites . ) So , I didn't expect much from " Midnight Cowboy " but got a lot back . It's a touching story , well-made and well-told with some of the best performances of all time . Dustin Hoffman , as Enrico " Ratso " Rizzo , gives one of his best - it's a bit funny at times ( he sounds like a cartoon character when he speaks - maybe because of the Lenny / " Simpsons " connection ) , but Hoffman is entirely convincing . Half of the film's budget went towards his paycheck as he was just becoming a major star in Hollywood . Opposite him is the second-billed Jon Voight as Joe Buck , the " cowboy " who travels North to the Big Apple in the hopes of becoming a male prostitute . Soon his naive ways land him in trouble and he pairs up with a crippled scam artist named " Ratso " - who offers to become Joe's " manager " for a certain percentage of profits . The movie is quite long at two hours but never really seems very long . Some films can tend to drag , especially some of the films that were made in the ' 70s because ( as it's been said in " Easy Riders , Raging Bulls " ) the directors were the stars of the movies in the 1970s and occasionally they got a bit too infatuated with their material , going on too long examining characters / scenes / etc . that aren't important . Just about the only scene I felt was a bit too long and unnecessary was the drug party - it makes the film seem extremely outdated ( similar to the drug odysseys in " Easy Rider " ) and really harms its flow because it's not needed . Other than that , " Midnight Cowboy " is an almost flawless motion picture . I was pleasantly surprised . It does have its flaws ( flashbacks are a bit tacky and never used as well as they could have been , for instance ) and some of the scenes are a bit uneasy ( such as the gay movie theater sequence ) but if you can handle its content " Midnight Cowboy " is a truly great motion picture , an uncompromising examination of life on the streets in the late ' 60s / early ' 70s . It's a depressing movie , yes , and by today's standards might seem a bit outdated and heavy on the liberal perspective of " life is horrible , etc . " . . . but I still love it and particularly the extremely touching ending will stay with me for a long , long time . Highly recommended . One of the best films of the ' 70s . ( It was technically released in late 1969 but I'd still categorize it as a 1970s film . It also won the Best Picture Oscar , being the first - and only - X-rated motion picture to do so . It was later re-rated R on appeal . )
An epic crime film .	At the center of Michael Mann's " Heat " is a simple cop-and-robber story , but the film's understanding of its two leads , and their deep affinity and respect for each other , is what essentially propels the film into greatness . It stars the two biggest names in Hollywood , Al Pacino and Robert De Niro . For over thirty years , their performances have created critical milestones in acting . Although they both starred in Francis Ford Coppola's " Godfather " series , chronology prevented them from appearing on-screen together . Over the years , their performances stirred the entire world . Pacino electrified with " Serpico , " " Dog Day Afternoon , " " Scarface , " " Scent of a Woman , " " Donnie Brasco , " " The Insider " ; De Niro impressed audiences and critics alike with " Taxi Driver , " " The Deer Hunter , " " Raging Bull , " " Once Upon a Time in America , " " The Untouchables , " " Cape Fear , " " GoodFellas , " " A Bronx Tale , " and " Casino . " Both actors have won Best Actor Academy Awards , and have attracted fervent die-hard cinema fans . " Heat " marks their first - - and , to date , only - - film where they actually appear together in the same frame . Their first meeting takes place in a small diner off a freeway . Their calmness and mutual respect is what separates it from a similar story that might have them involved in foot-and-gun chases for the entire running time . This diner confrontation is ultimately one of the major reasons the film impresses . Pacino has been playing the same characters since " Scent of a Woman , " frequently yelling , " Hoo-hah ! " and randomly shouting . His recent role in " Angels in America " was the perfect example of this tiresome persona - - a great actor who is starting to become lost ( De Niro still has it , as far as I'm concerned , but Pacino needs to be careful ) . But if it's any consolation , this sort of frantic performance works well in " Heat , " resulting in the appearance of a tired cop who's been working on similar cases for far too long . Neil ( De Niro ) , a criminal genius , is his perfect nemesis . Once he brings him down , his agenda will be fulfilled . The film is described on the posters as a " Los Angeles crime saga , " about a cop on the trail of a smart villain . The cop is Vincent ( Pacino ) , a newly-married LAPD officer who takes great pride in his job . " It keeps me sharp , " he tells his wife after she complains that he doesn't spend enough time with the family . To Vincent , there is no other life apart from his job . Neil is planning to rip off a bank for millions of dollars . His last heist . He plans to settle down and raise a family , like his partner in crime ( Val Kilmer ) has already done with his wife ( Ashley Judd ) . But you can't escape your past . Neil can only get so far before everything catches up with him . And , like a trapped animal , his only chance at survival is to attack the pursuer , which in this case happens to be Vincent . It is rather unfortunate that Pacino and De Niro are compared to each other so often , since each actor brings something unique to their films . Pacino , with his increasingly raspy voice and occasionally over-the-top performances , is wilder than De Niro . His portrayal of Tony Montana in Brian DePalma's " Scarface " was intense , and that same raw intensity he displayed there is brought to every role he has played over the years . In " Heat , " he plays another intensely breezy , confident character . De Niro is once again the quieter , reserved character , saying little , observing , and controlling everyone around him with those penetrating eyes . He has a face that says , " I own you , " and his intimidation is greater than anything he could ever express in words . The ending of " Heat " is absolutely brilliant , touching and moving . Suffice to say , I will resist spoiling it - - but it's far more tender than you might ever imagine . The film is based on an earlier work of Mann's , called " L . A . Takedown , " which is rumored to be included on the similarly-rumored Special Edition DVD . " Heat " is masterful in the way it manages to balance the two most colossal stars of our time in a film that goes beyond the boundaries of crime thriller and into the realm of cult masterpiece . I do not know if Pacino and De Niro will ever team up again , but if they do , I'd be satisfied if the result is only half as good as " Heat . "
Black Is Back .	You've gotta hand it to Shane Black . This is the man who helped create the cop-buddy genre with " Lethal Weapon , " then turned around four years later and satirized it with his script for " The Last Boy Scout . " A lot of critics didn't like that movie because it was loud , ugly , profane , garish and Tony Scott-ish . But a lot of them simply didn't understand it . Ditto for " Last Action Hero . " It's one of the most daring and original Hollywood films ever produced , and yet somehow many of its stars didn't even appreciate it . Arnold signed on thinking it was just another action flick with some tongue-in-cheek humor ( as evidenced by his later comments about the film being " too violent " for kids ) . But that movie had a lot of brains , and it consistently made fun of the high level of cartoonish violence in any Arnie movie . And when " The Long Kiss Goodnight " rolled around , that is when Black proved once and for all that although his films may contain a surface of male machismo , misogyny , over-the-top violence and profanity , it's his clever writing that always undermines what's happening in the forefront . He's serving Hollywood exactly what they want , while still managing to take jabs at them underneath it all . He took the whole spy-thriller genre for a big twist , but once again a lot of people just didn't " get it " ? and it was another bomb . It shoved him into unwilling retirement . Now , Shane is black with his directorial debut , " Kiss Kiss , Bang Bang , " one of the best films I've ever seen . Entertaining from frame one , this gritty , smug little film carries over a lot of the unadulterated heavy violence and sexism inherent in so many action films from the 1980s and early 1990s . But it's all poking fun at itself , in typical Shane fashion . Take the scene where the heroine , Harmony Lane ( Michelle Monaghan ) , runs around a Los Angeles park in a skimpy Playboy outfit , for example . Shane even gives her a gun . Kiss kiss , bang bang . Robert Downey , Jr . plays Harry Lockhart , a small-time crook from the east coast who gets his partner killed in a toy store robbery and , on the run from cops , stumbles into an open casting audition . He breaks down in an emotional fit in front of the casting director , who thinks it's the best performance he's ever seen . He flies Harry out to LA to prepare for his role in the film , where he meets Gay Perry ( Val Kilmer ) , a gay Hollywood insider who is a private eye of sorts and is also gay . Did I mention he's gay ? Because it's made clear that he is . A lot . And in case you didn't get it the first time , they even gave him a Gay nickname . Literally . But that's the genius of this movie . Kilmer embodies Perry so well that he ends up transforming his character into a giant criticism of gay stereotypes . Perry is a stereotype who is aware of his stereotypes , and embraces them , and makes fun of them - and isn't afraid too , which makes it acceptable for us to laugh . Perry is even , to a point , another means to satirize Black's earlier material . Riggs and Murtaugh solidified the idea of buddies in a buddy-movie ? what they should be like , how they should interact , and so on and so forth . To suddenly have a buddy movie with a straight character and a gay character almost seems to be breaking the unwritten Buddy Movie laws that Black helped create . Perry is one of Kilmer's best and most likable performances , and he plays right into the hands of the wonderful Robert Downey Jr . , who is a true revelation . His comedic timing and fourth wall narrative are flawless . His interaction with Kilmer is classic , and one of the best buddy-pairings since " Lethal Weapon . " Go figure . It almost makes you crave for a sequel , even though you really don't want to risk them ruining the originality of the original . " Kiss Kiss , Bang Bang " is the most obvious of all Shane's self-referential films , because it speaks directly to its audience . ( " I saw the last Lord of the Rings , I'm not going to have like seventeen different endings . " ) But balancing a self-referential narrative in a film like this almost seems a risky thing to do in the post-Tarantino era ? the era in which self-reference became " hip " and " cool , " but most importantly : financially profitable for the studios . The production companies dished them out and soon the entire concept was burnt out and boring . The smug , self-aware attitude of flicks like " Boondock Saints " became tiresome . But it's only fitting that the father of the genre should be the one to resurrect it . This film has the best dialogue I've heard in a movie for ages , and the brilliance of it is the fact that it doesn't become overbearingly self-conscious : it's amiable and entertaining . The film's title is a reference to another movie , by the way . Pauline Kael supposedly saw the term in Italy , where it was used to describe the James Bond character . It effectively sums up exactly what Hollywood wants in their movies ? girls , sex , violence . Kiss kiss , bang bang . Black is back .
" Everybody's gotta die some day . . . " One of the greatest films ever made . . .	" Everybody's gotta die some day , Red . " Sgt . Barnes ( Tom Berenger ) , " Platoon . " I do not believe that there has been a more effective Vietnam War film than " Platoon . " Of course , one could argue that Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 masterpiece " Apocalypse Now " is the definitive Vietnam picture , but that person would be quite wrong , as the latter film is not a Vietnam War film but rather a film taking place in the Vietnam War - - it's based on the novel by Joseph Conrad , " The Heart of Darkness , " which I have indeed read and I believe was written during the late 1800s . Before the Vietnam War . The Vietnam War was used as a setting in the film simply because it was current with the times . The Vietnam War was the nation's primary focus during the 70s . Nowadays the novel would most likely not even take place during a war , but rather be a story of an African trader journeying up the Congo to find a secluded man named Kurtz , which is essentially what the book was about in the first place . No , " Platoon " is all about the Vietnam War and the side effects . We get to see the men before and after , as they gear up and prepare themselves for the dreaded hike through the jungles of Vietnam and into the heart of battle , and when they are finally through with the war and ready to go home . The film's point of view comes from a young American soldier named Chris Taylor ( Charlie Sheen ) , a rich kid who has joined the war in an effort to appreciate multi-ethnic races and give something back instead of sitting around watching from the outside like all the other rich folk . His platoon has two Sergeants , Barnes ( Tom Berenger ) and Elias ( Willem Dafoe ) , the former of whom is a hard-nosed macho man ready to tear apart anything in his path and the latter of whom is an experienced soldier who came into the war with a sense of adventure and has now come to appreciate the fine things in life , and , for that matter , life itself . Chris forms a close friendship with Elias , put to a tragic end after Barnes murders Elias in cold blood , an attempt to keep the hounds off of his back after a savage attack on an innocent little farming town in Vietnam , of which Elias is able to testify to . Chris knows Barnes shot Elias , and he tries to form an alliance with a band of other soldiers to help him take out Barnes before more people end up dead . During a savage final attack for the platoon in Vietnam , Barnes tries to murder Chris - but events don't always turn out the way you have them planned . I don't know a whole lot about the Vietnam War . The history of it all has been contorted over the years by Hollywood and sympathizers . It's been made out to be the most brutal and disturbing war of all time , and I believe this might be true . Why ? Because back in the early 40s , at the rise of World War II , the nation was not as angry as it was in the 70s . The 60s had created a decade of love and peace , and the 70s were the aftereffect of it all . People were angry . They took their vengeance out in many ways . Vietnam was one of them . I think it disturbed many people because of the ferocity of it all . The ferocity shines through in a truly disturbing scene , when Chris ' platoon visits a local Vietnamese village and Bunny ( Kevin Dillon ) mercilessly attacks a disfigured man and his mother , some other soldiers attempt to rape a young girl ( Chris stops them ) , Barnes shoots a woman , and they burn down the village . Oliver Stone is a great director whose films have been criticized for historical pervasion over the years . He directed " JFK " ( 1991 ) , which caused upset among the people who knew his facts were all incorrect . He then directed the Quentin Tarantino-scripted " Natural Born Killers , " which caused only more outrage . Many of his films have caused outrage , come to think of it . But I don't think that anyone can deny the power of " Platoon . " The film's Military advisor was Capt . Dale Dye , who has worked with Stone on numerous films and provides a commentary track on the newly-released Special Edition DVD . It's interesting to listen to - - he provides some insight into what went on during production , such as how the cast was shipped out to a boot camp to train for the movie . The film has an all-star supporting cast , including Forest Whitaker , Francesco Quin , John C . McGinley , Kevin Dillon , Reggie Miller and Jack Sparrow himself , Johnny Depp . They all help make the film what it is . But it truly comes down to the triangle of Barnes , Elias and Taylor . Amidst the war they fight amongst themselves . The war is in them . And that , I suppose , is the message , after all . stars . - John Ulmer
Director's Cut Review . . .	Minor SpoilersI attended a screening of " Alien : The Director's Cut " not four hours ago , and not four hours ago I was thrilled . I knew that I was going to get a chance to witness one of the most atmospheric and thrilling films of all time - - with added footage . Fans who picked up the DVD ( now out of print to make way for the new " Alien Quadrilogy " ) may have already seen a few of the deleted segments , while other fans who didn't , and are waiting on the promised quadrilogy to be released next year , will be enthralled . This film doesn't feature a wealth of new footage such as " Apocalypse Now Redux , " scenes that could damage its flow , but instead gives us scenes that click together a bit more . One of these is when Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) finds Dallas ( Tom Skerritt ) attached to the wall with alien mucus seen later in " Aliens . " It doesn't make sense to feature it in the original cut , and director Ridley Scott was smart for deleting it when the film hit theaters back in 1979 . It doesn't really make much sense , and stops the gripping flow of the ending when Ripley is racing to get to the escape shuttle . It causes people to think , What ? and then they start letting their minds wander . But now that we have seen " Aliens , " and understand the significance of the mucus ( sounds funny , huh ? ) , it makes complete sense . This is the fan's version . Plus , it's fun to get to see the movie on the big screen for those who didn't twenty-four years ago . The plot ( as if you didn't know it by now ) : A mining ship in the future named the Nostromo , carrying seven passengers back to earth , stops in its course to locate an SOS beacon on a distant planet , which may , or may not , actually be a warning signal as opposed to a distress beacon - - too late to find out , since they land on the planet and one of the investigating crew members , Kane ( John Hurt ) , gets attacked by a strange alien creature that attaches itself to his face and doesn't let go . The ship's captain , Dallas , hauls him into the ship's lab , where he is looked over by the ship's scientist , Ash ( Ian Holm ) , who takes an odd affection to the creature that bothers Ripley , the second in command . The technician , Parker ( Yaphet Kotto ) , doesn't like any of this either , and their suspicions reach a maximum when Kane wakes up from his sleep , the alien unattached from his face , and proceeds to eat irregularly . Later that night , back in their course to earth , a small alien bursts from Kane's stomach at dinner . The alien escapes into the depths of the ship . Search parties commence but the alien starts to grow more fierce and terrifying as the film treads on - - soon it's a man-eating set of teeth bent on killing the lot of them . Atmosphere is part of what makes " Alien " the terrifying nail-biter it is . This isn't a routine horror flick that jumps through all the hoops - - it's original to a certain degree . Its inspiration comes from earlier films but it improves upon them all for the most part . From its opening shots to its final , it is eerie , moody , and scary . To show millions of aliens abounding from hidden crevices would be typical - - the fear of " Alien " lies in the anticipation of the jump , or the startle . We wait , and wait , and suddenly something leaps at the screen . It's not the alien . The alien is in front of the thing that jumped . Our heart stops and then jolts again . Forget pumping volts of electricity through dead people - - place them in front of this and their hearts will pound once again . James Cameron's sequel " Aliens " ( 1986 ) is often considered the better of the series , in terms of excitement and aliens themselves . But " Alien , " like the movie " Signs " ( 2002 ) , isn't really about aliens . The film " Aliens " is terrific - - but so is " Alien , " as its central idea is too unnerve the audience through bumps and jolts . Not through blood and guts . Depends on what your personal preferences are - - startles or explosions ? I appreciate and enjoy both . Ridley Scott knows how to evoke wonder and magnificence from his shots . The opening sequence that shows the exterior of the Nostromo and then dissolves to the interior , crawling along the shafts as we wait for something scary to happen and then forget as we are wowed by the movement and visuals , is a fine example of the art of filmmaking and not the filmmaking itself . Cameron is one of my favorite directors . Scott , when given the right material , can turn out wonders . " Alien " is his crowning achievement alongside the dark 1982 classic " Bladerunner , " another sci-fi feast for the eyes and mind . I wasn't a fan of " Gladiator , " but let's not bring that up , shall we ? " Alien " may seem tame by today's standards . But this isn't a film that wants to be another mindless blood and guts extravaganza . This is a smart horror film , one that is as involving as it visually magnificent , one that is as amazing as it is terrifying . This is horror at its finest . And if you didn't get to see it on the big screen last time around , now is your chance to get a glance at what you've been missing all these years . Notes : The new " Alien : Director's Cut " version features over three minutes of never-before-seen sequences , as well as restored prints and a newly remixed surround-sound track . Attached to the director's release of the film is also the first teaser trailer for next year's " Alien vs . Predator . " stars for the 1979 original and 2003 Director's Cut . - John Ulmer
A beautiful , moving masterpiece - Bergman's best	The Swedish Professor Isak Borg ( Victor Sjöström ) embarks on a journey to Lund in order to receive an award for lifelong achievement in the medical field . After his house maid refuses to go with him ( " We're not married ! " ) he finds his daughter-in-law ( Bibi Andersson ) inviting herself along . Little does he know that she holds a great contempt for her father-in-law and is only accompanying him as a way of easily confronting him and expressing her true feelings . Painfully wounded by the prospect of his own daughter-in-law hating him , Borg begins to reflect upon his life in a series of visions , flashbacks and hazy dream sequences . This is my favorite Ingmar Bergman film . Although it's a close call , I'd say this is his overall best movie and is wonderfully , beautifully shot . It's tasteful , just the right running length ( short enough not to contain any unnecessary scenes and long enough to feel satisfied when it's over ) . The point here - - underneath all the layers - - is that we don't have a very long time on earth , and we should make the most out of it . Borg realizes as a frail old man that he has ruined his own life and has no happy memories . It is Bergman's " Citizen Kane " or " Ikiru " - - a poignant reflection on humanity and a film that , ultimately , can change the way you look at life - - if you open up enough to let it .
George C . Scott is hilarious !	I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that " Dr . Strangelove " owes a great portion of its success to George C . Scott . His performance in this film is hilarious and his constant facial contortions are funnier than what most comedians can accomplish in an entire career . ( Hello , Jimmy Fallon . ) Everyone's always raving about Peter Sellers ; yes , he's very funny also , but in my opinion Scott is the best of the entire cast and manages to evoke more laughs than anyone else . He's also the one whose actions are responsible for the film's best line , and most famous . ( I'm not even going to mention it again ! ) Stanley Kubrick's war classic still holds up to this day thanks to its hugely clever script and absurdly prescient aspects of warfare and politics . This movie still holds up over 40 years later and that's saying quite a lot , especially in a day and age when most people look back on films from the 1960s and frown because they were largely known for being optimistic , colorized and starring clean-cut wholesome leading stars who don't recognize a world outside their own sickeningly sweet borders . Kubrick was always way ahead of his times and if " Dr . Strangelove " were made today it would still be considered edgy in some ways . It touches on certain areas of politics that , particularly right now , are fragile and easily upset . On top of that the not-so-subtle sexual allegories must have slipped by the censors . The opening credits begin with phallus-shaped missiles that are a clear metaphor ; they are also linked to the subject of battle which creates a sexual fetish regarding warfare . On top of that there is the General with his cigar and the " precious bodily fluids . " The sexual symbolism has been written about before , in greater depth , but even I found it very clear and I rarely agree with the critics who find sexual innuendo in the most basic of films . " Dr . Strangelove " is really funny and memorable , even still after all these years . Not many films can carry that honor . This is a classic whose reputation speaks for itself and doesn't outweigh its lasting effect ; in essence , a must-see .
A beautiful , strange , touching , bittersweet and ultimately haunting true story , well-told and respectful of Merrick without " cheapening " the tale .	Few films capture " true stories " as well as The Elephant Man . Although there were , of course , certain artistic liberties drawn ( as with any film based on actual events ) , David Lynch respects Joseph Merrick enough not to present him as a monstrous caricature of a man . ( You may be wondering why I do not refer to Joseph Merrick as John Merrick . . . well , his real name was actually Joseph , but was changed for the film as its screenplay was based on correspondence letters between Dr . Frederick Treves and Joseph . For some reason , he altered Joseph's name in the letters to " John " at some point in time . No one's sure why . ) John / Joseph Merrick had a rare disease called Proteus Disease , a congenital condition . It made him appear hideously deformed and unrecognizable as a man . Of course , in today's age of scientific reasoning , Joseph would have been provided with great care ; however , in 19th century Victorian England there was still a heavy reliance upon superstition and , to a certain extent , religious influence upon the public's perception . Because Joseph was so disfigured , everyone figured he was either being punished by God or he was a murderous monster . ( In fact , at one time he was a potential suspect in the Jack the Ripper killings in Whitechapel , based simply on his physical appearance . It's actually an interesting theory they proposed - that he had taken out his sexual frustration upon prostitutes who rejected him - but the simple fact remains that no one in Joseph's condition could have ever managed to perform those murders . Still , it's an interesting addition to the legend and John / Joseph can even be seen briefly in the Johnny Depp film " From Hell , " which is based upon the Jack the Ripper case . ) John Hurt does a truly wonderful job portraying Joseph Merrick . His performance is captivating because it hints at innocence beneath the hideous appearance - proving the age-old saying " beauty lies on the inside " . . . it's a touching performance and one of the few that brought me close to tears . For what it's worth , as convincing as the makeup effects are in this film , the real Joseph Merrick was far worse looking . There is actually a picture available on Google Image search ; if you take the liberty of looking for it , you may be shocked . The real Joseph Merrick was born in Leicester in 1862 and began showing signs of deformity at age two . He was eventually forced to live with his father , who did not want the child , and sent him out onto the streets to earn money . Because no one would hire him , he decided to star in a carnival attraction as " The Elephant Man . " When sideshows were outlawed in the UK in 1886 he traveled to Belgium to find work and was mistreated by a showman . In due time gained a friendship with Dr . Frederick Treves ( played by Anthony Hopkins in the film ) , a physician at London Hospital . He was finally given proper care and actually ended up drawing the attention of many rich Victorians of the time , including the Queen herself . Joseph died in his sleep in 1890 . Because of the size of his head he could not sleep horizontally , but the film proposes he tried to just once in order to imitate normal sleeping patterns of other humans . Others claim he was trying to commit suicide , which I somewhat doubt . In July 2003 , a doctor named Charis Eng took samples of Merrick's hair and bone and determined that he had suffered from Proteus syndrome , and not neurofibromatosis , as initially suspected . Of interesting note , although Merrick's skeletal remains are now on display at London Hospital , Michael Jackson reportedly tried to purchase Joseph's remains in 1985 to add to his " private collection . " The less said about this , the better . David Lynch seems an odd choice to direct this tale for obvious reasons - he is typically associated with the more bizarre , but The Elephant Man is actually quite Lynchian . Its cold , macabre layering provides a nice texture to the film . It's not unabashedly sentimental . It doesn't pull any cheap tricks . Lynch , as usual , keeps a certain distance from the viewer . . . and for once it pays off in a drama and makes The Elephant Man seem like a sort of macabre tale - which works to the film's advantage because it IS a rather macabre and depressing ( if bittersweet ) tale . This is my favorite Lynch film that I have seen so far and it's a pity that it isn't more highly regarded by those in the film industry . Although it made a bit of a fuss when it came out in 1980 , it seems by today's standards it has drifted into semi-obscurity and its influence speaks more than the film itself . However , I think this should be required viewing for any film lovers . Technically it's beautiful - the black and white compliments the eerie undercurrents and the direction and performances ( particularly Hurt and Hopkins ) are very good . On another level ( as an emotional experience ) it doesn't resort to the type of controlling sentimentality that , say , a film such as Forrest Gump might . It is less manipulative , and as a result , far more honest .
Daylight Run	One-sentence summary : " Midnight Run " meets the classic Arnie formula in this excellent , surprising action movie . Review : There's a scene very late into " The Rundown " where the lead hero decides to go against his short-standing morals and pick up guns in order to fight for his friends , despite arguing that he never would earlier in the movie . " Even Santa Claus would pick up a gun to help out a friend ! " he is told by a loudmouth . " Are you saying I'm Santa Claus ? " asks the hero . The audience laughs at the irony of the situation . The irony , of course , is that Santa Claus is a jolly old fat man , and the hero of " The Rundown " is a young , lean , muscular , lethal weapon - - the exact opposite of Mr . Claus ' unflattering , universally-regarded image . And in case you need an introduction to The Rock , a . k . a . Dwayne Johnson , he is a well-known wrestler , son of Rocky Johnson . He is famous for his own unique slamming move and great skills . Obviously I don't know much about wrestling , as you can plainly gather from reading my rather short and uneducated bio of the man . But regardless of any of this , here he is in this movie . The Rock is Beck , a " retrieval expert . " He is hired by rich people to seek out certain things - - people , objects , etc . - - and return them to the payer . In the opening sequence he walks into a crowded bar filled with football megastars . After politely demanding a ring from one of the husky players , he is thrown out of the bar by fellow football team members . So Beck gets on the phone with his boss . " Do we have to do this now ? " he asks . " They've really got a chance this year ! " The answer , of course , is that he must do it now , and what he does is a lot of fun - - he beats them up , one-by-one , bare-handed and using only his fists as weapons - - evoking a sort of Jean-Claude Van Damme image . Only . . . better . Prior to this scene , Arnold Schwarzenegger stops Beck while he's entering the bar . He tells him to have a good time with the typical Arnie grin , then leaves . That's when we realize we're about to have a fun time , and it only gets better from there . Beck's newest assignment is to locate Travis ( Seann William Scott ) , a young man who is residing in the Amazon and is worth a lot of money to his estranged father , who wants his son back - - for unspecified reasons . Beck doesn't ask questions , he just retrieves what he's told to retrieve - - like a golden retriever , I suppose . After making the trip to El Dorado , a . k . a . Helldorado , Beck finds himself being pursued by Hatcher ( Christopher Walken ) , a ruthless millionaire miner who owns much of the land surrounding the area - - and wants Travis for himself , so that he can tell him where an ancient artifact lies . So , on the run with Travis and being pursued by Hatcher and his men , Beck is left with few options . There's option A and option B . A is leave Travis and return home , forget his job and open up a new restaurant he's been saving up for . Option B is confront Hatcher , bring Travis back to his father , collect his reward and open his restaurant . He does , of course , choose the latter of the two options . There's a brilliant scene at the end of this movie that sent a strong chill up my spine . Travis is being shot at , calling for help , and Beck is scared to pick up weapons to defend his friend . The director Peter Berg , the former actor , raises the tension by splicing together various images at exceeding speed . And then finally they all immediately stop and we see Beck rise upwards , in typical slow motion , holding two guns in his hands . The audience is quiet and a chill is sent throughout the screening room . We all know that hell has finally been unleashed . After refusing to pick up guns throughout the movie for fear of what may happen to his enemies , Beck has turned on his morals and it's time to kick some butt . This is pure action stuff , delivered with great expertise , and its effect is startlingly powerful . All in all , I absolutely loved it . Prior to seeing " The Rundown , " I wasn't sure if I wanted The Rock to be the next Arnold Schwarzenegger . After seeing " The Rundown , " I must say that I don't really mind if he becomes half as good as Arnold . Granted , I somewhat doubt if he'll ever become the same box office titan . Arnold was the first of his kind in both bodybuilding and action movies . He's had a lot of pale imitators , right down to the " muscle men with accents " category . He is , to this day , unrivaled by any muscular action hero . Just like there will never be another Eastwood , there will never be another Arnold . But as far as they go , The Rock is one of his better imitators , which says something . " The Rundown " is rated PG-13 but plays like a good R-rated action movie . It's very good and will not disappoint any action fans that feel that the genre has been somewhat lacking recently . After " Terminator 3 " and " The Rundown , " though , it looks like we may be starting to get back on track after all . As for Beck ? I have a feeling he'll be back . stars . - John Ulmer
One of the funniest DVD special features I've ever seen	This hilarious spoof of classic children's show " Clutch Cargo " had me in tears . It's not at all what I expected when I first bought the " Incredibles " DVD and started watching it . Essentially it begins with Mr . Incredible ( Craig T . Nelson ) and Frozone ( Samuel L . Jackson ) watching a new TV series spin-off of their adventures and exploits . However Frozone takes offense to the film as he is dubbed over by a white man and the animation is horrible and simplistic . The story also includes a bunny named " Mr . Skipperdoo . " I was in tears because anyone who remembers these old ' 60s TV shows with the cheesy moving mouths plastered over top of still drawings will know how appalling they were . This is an adult-geared special feature , and its mediocre rating on IMDb , I'm sure , has something to do with the younger voters not " getting it . "
Escape from Alcatraz	This is by far the best film ever made . It puts " Lord of the Rings , " " Schindler's List , " " Citizen Kane " and " Mission : Impossible 2 " to shame . It is so great , it's greater . It's about this guy who has nightmares about all the people who died at Alcatraz , so he decides to visit the jail and , like , there are all these vampires and stuff , and they're all into killing people . It's really cool . The special effects are like totally sweet , I thought it was a real vampire once . ( They're real , they bit my Uncle Herman . ) The acting is top-notch stuff . Everyone playing the vampires must have trained at the Actor's Studio with Al Pacino and Chris Walken and Mickey Rourke , they're just plain into character like no others . It co-stars this guy named Jeff Speakman , you might remember him from the epic masterpiece of the martial arts genre , THE PERFECT WEAPON , well he's even better here , even though he's only in it for about ten seconds . This is a totally sweet movie and the best movie ever made . Before I saw it , I had no idea a lone man could gain access to one of the most infamous former jails in the United States . I was also unaware that nobody's monitoring the jail and that these monitors wouldn't have noticed flying giant bats killing people all the time . So I guess I learned a thing or two from Slaughterhouse Rock , the best movie ever made !
I laughed at almost every scene !	I love SPACEBALLS , it's one of Brook's best comedys and it was brilliantly played by John Candy , Rick Moranis , Bill Pullman , and Mel Brooks . I really loved this movie and I recommend it to everyone . From the Pizza the Hut Joke , to the " mog " played by Candy . . . It's all very funny . Yogurt , the lightsaber ring , everything . I could go on forever . Just go rent it out for a fun time . This may be a little too much for normal people , but I give it stars .
Classic Comedy .	Danny Kaye's finest hour as Walter Mitty , a man who daydreams of faraway adventures all day long , while the real events in his life become further distanced from his mind . Some very funny imagination / daydream sequences intercut with real-time reactions from family and such . Great movie . stars - John Ulmer
The Silliest Film Ever Made . . .	From a technical viewpoint , " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " could be called a seriously flawed and impaired film . Filmed on location in the UK with a minimal budget and regular " Python " cast members , I seriously doubt that anyone working on the project at the time had believed it would spark such a cultural phenomenon . And revisiting the movie now , post its release 28 years ago , is magical . First-time viewers may be puzzled by the film's odd opening - - in fact , stories of those who thought that they had entered into the wrong screening room come in abundance . But as soon as the voice of the coarse British man is audible the viewer realizes that he or she has been duped once again by the Python Troupe . King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table have been sent on a most glorious quest by God Himself - - to seek and maintain the Holy Grail , the legendary cup that Christ drank from during The Last Supper , prior to His execution , and which later caught His blood as he was left danging upon the cross . But the seriousness surrounding the Holy Grail is left wholly untouched by the members of Monty Python - - instead , we follow King Arthur and his men as they come upon an odd assortment of characters , including The Black Knight , Dennis , The Knights Who Say " Ni ! " , and The Killer Rabbit , all of whom hinder the daring soldiers in their quest for the Holy Grail . Many people will find the humor of " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " ingenious , while others will find the exact same jokes and stints repetitive and ridiculous . I myself did not enjoy the film the first time I saw it as a child , but over the years I have come to appreciate its humor a bit more . I still find the jokes a bit too stretched out at times , and certain gags , though hilarious the first ten times , get a bit humorless the twentieth time around ( the coconuts , for example , which are amazingly silly when first introduced , soon become tiring when they are treated as the highlight of a joke repetitively ) . However , often enough the jokes introduced at certain points in the films are merely played in the background further into the film - - for example , the fact that the men do not ride on horses is quite a major idea the first time it is revealed , and becomes the central subject of a conversation between Arthur and the man atop the castle battlements . But later on the notion of no horses is played smaller and in the background as so we can concentrate on the current jokes at hand , as well as the missing horses as an added bonus . There is absolutely nothing to truthfully discuss about " Monty Python and the Holy Grail , " other than to say that at first it seems quite obnoxious , but it starts to grow on you . And this movie has definitely made a deep dig into our culture . In fact , on the commentary track for the newer DVD , John Cleese mentions that a pro American football player ( or " footballer " as the English call them ) and his buddy were thinking of a plan in the midst of a serious game . Their strategy was this on the field : Run away ! Run away ! There are countless classic scenes , including the battle between The Black Knight and King Arthur ( " I've had worse ! " ) ; the scene where Sir Lancelot the Brave ( or Launcelot , as the script for the film names him ) storms the Swamp Castle in hopes of rescuing a fair maiden and , in result , ends up destroying everything in his path ( including the candle mounted along the wall leading to the spiralling staircase ) , saying that he gets a bit frantic and over-excited in this genre ; Sir Robin and the Three-Headed Knight ( " . . . when danger reared its ugly head he bravely turned his tail and fled . . . " ) ; The Knights Who Say " Ni ! " and their request for a shrubbery ; the Killer Rabbit's attack on Arthur's merry men . That's just to name a few memorable scenes . " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " may be the silliest film ever put on celluloid . It rarely makes sense , sometimes falls a bit flat , but always puts a smile on your face . And that's an achievement .
Classic Christmas film that doesn't age	Ralphie ( Peter Billingsley ) wants a Red Rider BB Gun for Christmas but his mother is totally against it - the " you'll shoot your eye out " discussion being a major opposition . This is essentially a story about childhood and is very spot-on in regards to the yearning of children and the whole Christmas era - I've been watching it since I was a child and every Christmas when it comes on TV I watch it again . It's funny , poignant and totally memorable - it has some of the best scenes of all-time and although I know a few people who dislike it because it's a bit " weird " and " dark , " most people I know love it . Worth watching every Christmas , forever !
An OK movie , but Verhoeven's absence is quite apparent , and it is nowhere near as great as its terrific predecessor . . .	SPOILERS SPOILERS " RoboCop " is one of my all-time favorite guilty pleasures , the type of rare action movie that takes no prisoners and never lets up for a single moment until the ride is over , and when the credits start to fill the screen you just let out a big sigh of relief - - not because it was a bad film , but because you survived the ride . " RoboCop 2 " is a bit different . Gone is Paul Verhoeven at the helm of the film and filling in for his absence is Irvin Kershner ( " The Empire Strikes Back " ) . The film is violent , perhaps a bit more so than the first in certain areas overall , but it lacks the hard , almost unexplainable solid edge the first film had - - the sharpness that pierces you as you watch the film like a knife blade . " RoboCop 2 " has a dull blade . The first has a great effect . This does not . There's violence without reason , reason without explanation , and explanation without effect . Detroit is worse off than it was in the last film - - men bash little old ladies with cars and steal their loot ; hookers stab men in the eye to steal cash ; stores are blown up and rampages by little league players and the captain of the team even occur . Police are on strike because they claim the city is screwing them over - - only RoboCop ( Peter Weller ) , Lewis ( Nancy Allen ) , and a few other policemen / women remain . There's a new drug on the rise called " Nuke , " manufactured and sold to the public by Cain ( Tom Noonan ) and his young apprentice ( Gabriel Damon ) , who looks about 11 or 12 but talks with the language of a Quentin Tarantino character and kills innocent human beings mercilessly . Oh , but when he dies we're supposed to feel sorry for him because then he's a cute little mortally-wounded boy . RoboCop chases down Cain and , after what seems two hours into the film , finally catches him . But Omni Corp , the corporation we saw in the first film , wants a new RoboCop , so they shut down life support on the dying Cain , take his brain and stuff it into a new RoboCop , referenced to so originally as " RoboCop 2 , " hence the title of the film . ( My suggestion is that in " RoboCop 4 , " they should create a cyborg called RoboCop XP , and he can have lightning-fast reflexes and a built-in wireless broadband modem so he can check his e-mails and surf the ' Net while he's on the go . ) And putting a homicidal drug dealer's brain inside a giant-sized robot law enforcer with machine gun capabilities and weapons of mass destruction probably isn't a very good idea , but the thought never crosses the minds of Omni Corp . The chairman of Omni Corp ( Daniel O'Herlihy ) produces RoboCop 2 to the public , but RoboCop already realizes RoboCop 2 is dangerous and so he appears at the unveiling armed with a huge gun . RoboCop 2 goes haywire and kills everyone . The entire sequence is done in cheesy Godzilla animation but , to be quite honest , it didn't look all that bad . He and RoboCop duke it out on top of buildings and in elevator shafts and on the ground outside Omni Corp , where an uncountable number of police officers ( hey , weren't they on strike ? ) are left firing at this indestructible - - and very bulletproof - - machine that unfortunately does not have an OFF switch in sight . ( " Turn it off ! " he says . " I can't ! " she says . " You idiots ! " I say . ) So many loose threads are left dangling in " RoboCop 2 , " and so many subject matters that I wanted sorting out after seeing the first film . But there isn't any hope in sight . After a brief moment that hints towards the central idea that RoboCop may still be human after all ( wasn't that sorta established in the original ? ) , everything is dropped for the action set pieces to move in , such as a car chase with RoboCop and Cain , or the end finale that goes on too long . But RoboCop is seen spying on his wife in the beginning , and we find out that she has gone through serious trauma over this whole thing . She confronts him at the police station and out of decency he insists her husband is dead . But we see the look of remembrance and remorse in his eyes . That's the storyline I would like to follow . I'd like to follow RoboCop's journey to find himself again , to recover lost memories floating around in that big brain of his . To confront his wife and tell her that he remembers her , to add a human element to the story that was so clearly demonstrated in the original but completely lost here . Kershner obviously wants to mimic Verhoeven . But Verhoeven knows how to equally balance action and excessive gore with social satire and the ongoing human battles , relevant to the action battles . Remember in the first film when RoboCop went through his house and his eyes started to flood with past images and faded memories ? Nothing like that is done here . We simply get some cheesy flashback in the beginning when Alex ( pre-RoboCop ) is laughing with his wife in a very non-candid and dubious sort of way . As I saw this sequence , I just sat in my seat waiting for the word " Hallmark " to appear in gold font across the screen . As for all the loose threads left open in this film and supposedly not touched in the third movie . . . let's all hope that when Paul Verhoeven said he wishes to return to the series he wasn't lying . I'd love to see this franchise closed in a more honorable fashion . " RoboCop 2 " is an OK movie for a Friday night crowd , but in comparison with the original , it's about as cold as RoboCop's facial tissue and as cloudy as RoboCop's memory . stars . - John Ulmer
Wrong Turn	" Detour , " directed by Edgar G . Ulmer , is one of the few rare motion pictures of any era that stays with you long after the credits fade away . Like " D . O . A . " ( 1949 ) , " Detour " is a B-movie filled with an uncountable number of imperfections and flaws , yet its haunting narrative and excellent lead character helps engrave it in our memory . Like " Fargo " and " A Simple Plan , " " Detour " is about a seemingly innocent and brief idea that soon unravels and turns into a dreaded nightmare . It all tarts with Al Roberts ( Tom Neal ) , a lonely , self-pitying hitchhiker who recalls his story to us in a beaten and dingy diner . A man in the diner starts to play a song on the jukebox : " I Can't Believe You Fell in Love with Me . " " Turn that off ! " Al yells . He doesn't like the song , and we have a feeling we're about to find out why . He starts his story at a time when he was a happy piano player with a girlfriend named Sue . After tiring of the poor life , Sue decides to travel to Hollywood in order to find a new job . Left stranded by himself , Al soon musters the courage to make the long trek to California by himself . Once there , he'll reunite with Sue and they'll start a new life . Along the way , Roberts is picked up by a traveler named Haskell ( Edmund MacDonald ) , a nice fellow who is so trustworthy that he even lets Roberts drive the vehicle part of the way to California . He also reveals a nasty scar on his hand to Roberts , and says that some " dame " bit him a while back along the road . After Haskell dies of natural causes in the car , Roberts is left facing the opportunity of alerting the police of the death or burying the body far from sight . Realizing that the police wouldn't believe him if he told them his story , he decides to take Haskell's ID , clothes , and money . ( " It seemed like an awful shame to leave all that money there . " ) Convinced that he's done the right thing , Haskell crosses the border into California and soon finds himself picking up a fellow hitchhiker named Vera ( Ann Savage ) . But , as Haskell so adequately puts it , why couldn't she have been a different girl ? Why did it have to be the girl that Haskell gave a ride to the day before ? " Where'd you bury his body ? " she barks . She doesn't believe his innocent story after he tells her . But she is a ruthless young lady , " No older than twenty-four , " and doesn't care about his innocence - - she just wants to make some money out of the ordeal . Her idea is so ridiculously outrageous that Roberts soon schemes a way to escape her grasp . The film is a brutal one , both literally and figuratively . Filmed in six simple days with an ultra-low budget and some fairly unknown actors , " Detour " is proof that sometimes films don't need to be well made to be entertaining and effective . Here is a movie so technically poor that our narration begins with lighting in the background being shut off and a flashlight beam being shone down upon Neal's face . But , as silly and amateur as this may sound , I thought it was one of the most haunting narrative techniques of all time - - a haunting technique that colorized filming would never be able to accentuate upon . I enjoyed the acting in " Detour " very much , especially after hearing how " ham-handed " it was . Tom Neal - - who comes across as a sort of moody , earlier version of a frustrated Kurt Russell - - is a real scene-stealer . His portrayal of a man slipping down a steep slope , unable to return to the flat surface , is extraordinarily good - - and I imagine quite controversial for the time . The implications of what his character does at times during the film are often the sort of stuff that would disturb today's audiences . Neal , as our film noir's hero , is probably one of the oldest anti-heroes of all time . In today's age there are doubts over whether or not his story is essentially true or fabricated - - did he really kill Haskell with his own hands and make up the rest to satisfy his own sense of self-satisfaction ? We'll never know the true answer . Part of what makes this film so engagingly playful is the way it twists everything about so that we never really know for sure what's happening , or what's about to happen , even on multiple viewings . Its director , Edgar G . Ulmer ( who I am not related to as far as I know ) , had previously united Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff for the first time in " The Black Cat , " filmed eleven years prior . " The Black Cat , " also filmed on a fairly low budget , is a major cult horror film to this day - - and was a fairly popular film at the time ; the equivalent of Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees ' infamous showdown in last year's " Freddy vs . Jason . " So it's strange to think that Ulmer , a German refugee from Hitler , would lower himself to the depths of die-hard B-movie-making . " Detour " is far from a perfect motion picture . It's often quite corny , and seriously flawed in terms of filmmaking . Sometimes you can tell where two scenes were spliced together to form a whole . In fact , the entire movie was essentially filmed in a car with a rear projection of California landscape and a hotel room . Here is indeed ample proof that aspiring directors need not always worry about all the technical quirks . It helps to make a good movie a great one , but more important is a good story and fine characters , and if anything , " Detour " more than makes up for its literal flaws with strong storytelling . - John Ulmer
One Of the Most Hilarious " Cheap " Films Ever !	I can't believe how hard I laughed at the " Grizzly Bear " scene , which magically transforms from an " American brown bear " to a " Grizzly bear " ( look at the sign at the zoo , then listen to the radio transmission by the police ) . The seen where " Herc " fights the bear is so ridiculous , that you just have to laugh ! This film is one of the all time best " cheap " films , following in the steps of all the others before it . I was lucky enough to view this on AMC , where they provided the version where Arnold " Strong " Schwarzenegger ISN'T dubbed . He got the part of Hercules because his agent told the director of the film that Arnold spoke great English . If you enjoyed such " classic " , dare I say , films like " Santa Clause Conquers the Martians " then you'll love Hercules in New York , which co-stars Arnold Stang as " Pretz " I believe was his name . stars on a scale of stupidity at the movies ! BTW : Was that Nikes the " bear " ( which looked more like a gorilla costume on Halloween-a bad one , mind you ) was wearing ? John Ulmer
One of the best action / sci-fi games up to date !	With outstanding graphics , and so much more , HALO is the best game so far for Xbox . And a plot to actually follow which a lot of games don't have , also makes the gaming experience unforgettable . The immense mini worlds of HALO make you feel like your there . The designers immerse you into awesome vehicles , including the human vehicles-the small and perdect for exploring WARTHOG ( like a hummer ) , and the powerful Scorpion Tank-and the alien vehicles GHOSTS ( which hovers , not able to fly ) and BANSHEES ( which flys ) . The game also offers one of the best multiplayer games ever , you can even create your own custom multiplayer . If you own an Xbox or are going to , and are only going to get one game , GET THIS GAME ! I can guarantee if any other system were able to make this game ( which they won't ) they wouldn't be able to handle the graphics so smoothly . The worlds are real , the fights are real , the weapons are real , and the explosions are real , which is why the tagline is just perfect for the title . . . " HALO : COMBAT EVOLVED " s
Hitchcock classic is arguably his best from the ' 30s . . .	According to Hitchcock , the MacGuffin was a phrase devised from Kipling that was used to cover any plot curiosity or unexplainable necessity ; the unattainable object that must be attained , or the mysterious device that must be discovered . The MacGuffin was that of meaningless intrigue , as when men die for the sake of a tune in The Lady Vanishes - a tune whose relevance and importance is of no knowledge to them , and exists merely as an excuse for a greater picture . A greater picture indeed . In The 39 Steps , Hitchcock's MacGuffin is presented early on , much to the ignorance of the casual viewer , who will no doubt pass over its significance without so much as a thought . Then , the MacGuffin transforms into another key element of the story . By the end of the film , we get the basic idea of what is going on , but the purpose for its existence in the first place is never fully explained - nor does it need to be . Hitchcock's own cynicism towards his ' MacGuffins ' is clearly evident in most interviews where he suffers through explaining their definitions yet once more . But author Eric Rhode explains , ' It would be as foolish to take Hitchcock's cynicism on its face value as it would be to accept François Truffaut's view that Hitchcock elaborates a philosophy of the absurd of it . Genuine anxieties and genuine intuitions do emerge in his filming . ' These anxieties appear in full during the course of The 39 Steps , Hitchcock's early British masterpiece from 1935 . Perhaps one of the first examples of the ' buddy comedy ' genre to later be fulfilled by Planes , Trains and Automobiles ( 1987 , John Hughes ) and Midnight Run ( 1988 , Martin Brest ) , The 39 Steps is a simple story that is technically flawed and yet structurally perfect . Arguably Hitchcock's most popular film of the 1930s ( closely rivaled by The Lady Vanishes [ 1938 ] ) , The 39 Steps is a reason to return to his older films and marvel at their utter simplicity and wonder . For a film released in 1935 , filmed with a low budget and a somewhat low-key cast , The 39 Steps is still relatively well-paced and interesting , and should wet the appetite of most mystery lovers - especially those who think the classics aren't ' any good . ' If you are interested in ' weaning ' yourself onto older motion pictures , this is a good start , and still one of the finest films you will ever encounter on your quest . In this case , Hitchcock's MacGuffin is inadvertently stumbled across by a Canadian man on vacation in England . His name is Richard Hannay ( played by Robert Donat ) , and his presence is never given a backdrop . A lesser director might employ the unnecessary fifteen-minute opening that sets up the character , his flaws , his quirks , his reasons for visiting England . Instead , Hitchcock does something just short of brilliant by introducing the character to us from the very start , halfway through his journey , and by doing so therefore lets us judge him on our own standards , without having forced opinions crammed down our throats . Unjustly accused of murder after being told of the ' thirty-nine steps ' by a female spy who is assassinated inside his apartment , Hannay flees into the British landscape , taking along a beautiful hostage named Pamela ( Madeleine Carroll ) , who is eager to escape , but soon falls for the Canadian and believes his self-proclaimed innocence to be the truth . What is the MacGuffin of the story ? In short , we never really know . To spoil the ending would ruin the entire film , but in a nutshell , Hannay himself becomes the MacGuffin , as he is the victim being pursued by men who are not aware of who he is , or what he knows . Hannay is the story's connecting thread to all of the following events , and the end presents us with two separate MacGuffins , in a sense : Hannay and the realization of why he has been chased up unto this point . Hitchcock does not use his typical MacGuffins here - the characters , and what they know , and why they know what they know , and why their pursuers want to know what they know , is the theme - or the MacGuffin , depending on how you want to interpret it . Quentin Tarantino used the MacGuffin ploy in Pulp Fiction fifty-nine years later - what was in the briefcase ? No one knew , and it was not important - the idea of the briefcase was all that mattered , and its presence was what compelled the characters to try and achieve it . We learned to realize that by revealing nothing , Tarantino was actually thereby offering our minds room to think for a change . To reveal the MacGuffin would ruin the entire theory - some of us might find it to be a worthy object and I am sure that many of us would consider it to be a waste of time . Instead , we react to the haze of light that shoots out of the briefcase whenever it is opened , and our curiosity grows as we see each and every character that encounters the case stare in awe at its presumably marvelous contents . Hitchcock could be credited for starting this entire trend of less-is-more cinema . He perfected the sense of mystery in Psycho ( 1960 ) , which completely startled audiences across the world , setting up two oft-mixed genres of serial killers and split personalities . ( It also spawned three inferior sequels , two of which were passable but all of which failed to realize that the subtlety of Psycho is what propelled it , not the exploitation present in its offspring . ) In The 39 Steps , the MacGuffin is more clear than usual , but the relevance of the MacGuffin itself to those who need it is what we are never sure of - and that is why the mystery is never truly explained , and is miles ahead of many other films that try , and fail , to imitate its success . stars . - John Ulmer
Why has it become " cool " to hate this film ?	Barry Levinson is one of the great screen directors of our time . He's most notable for being able to evoke subtly comedic discussions amongst his leading characters , save the rare occasion when his strained efforts backfire ( " Toys " comes to mind ) . " Rain Man " ( 1988 ) is his crowning effort , his best achievement I can think of off-hand . It's considered a drama but it's also a true odd couple comedy , about two opposites who learn they have one common bond : their kinship . The Cruise plays Charlie Babbitt , a wealthy car dealer living the high life in California . He's just gotten in a shipment of Ferraris and he's going to make a killing on an upcoming deal for all of them , when his entire background comes back to haunt him in a single unfortunate moment during his newly acquired and quite happy life . Charlie's father has just died , leaving him an old sports car and rose bushes . But more painful than the fact that his father has died or that he was left simply with a car and some prize-winning rosebushes is the fact that Charlie had tried to put his ill-fated past behind him , and now it has caught up with him again . He has to face the reality of his father once again . This isn't really evident the first time you watch the movie . Charlie is angered at the fact that he got nothing more than some bushes and a vehicle , sure , but he admits he expected nothing more . What really angers him is that he has to face his father , dead or alive , once more ; either through faded memories or by the realization that he is now dead and their friendship was never repaired . When Charlie finds out that his father's entire estate has been left to a single trustee , he schemes around and unmasks who the trustee really is - - his older brother he never knew he had , Raymond Babbitt ( Hoffman ) , who lives in a homey mental institute and quotes the Bud Abbott and Lou Costello " Who's on first ? " charade when he gets nervous . Charlie confronts his brother , who seems as though he doesn't recognize him . And in a moment of weakness , Charlie kidnaps his brother from his home , drives him back to California , and attempts to squeeze the money out of Raymond , who has no holding on the concept of money at all . Despite his lack of understanding regarding monetary value , Raymond is an idiot savant , and Charlie takes advantage of Raymond's mathematical skills by taking him to Las Vegas to count cards . After achieving a fortune they are thrown out of the casinos and left to face charges of kidnapping . The problem is , by the time it's all over , Charlie has formed an odd sort of bond with his brother . Long after the laughs settle the emotional impact of the story sinks in . The ending is the sort of rare conclusion that brings tears to the eyes . Throughout the film , Charlie is an arrogant , ignorant , greedy businessman who cares of no one but himself . By the end , however , he has learned more than he has in his entire lifetime from the brother he never had . And unlike a lot of the buddy films out there , we get to see the bonding between Charlie and his big brother , Raymond , form on a daily basis , until it is brought to a standstill . Dustin Hoffman gives his best performance in " Rain Man , " one of such unmatched strength and brilliance that we often feel that we are really watching an autistic man on screen . Raymond Babbitt is one of the most memorable characters you will ever encounter as a viewer , and though Dustin Hoffman isn't necessarily a favorite actor of mine , I place his performance in " Rain Man " as one of the most convincing and touching performances of all time . Trying to put the reason that " Rain Man " is so great into words is simply impossible . It's got everything . And as humorous as Raymond Babbitt becomes , he never seems unreal or obnoxious . As I watch him every time I watch the movie , I completely forget Dustin Hoffman is playing him until I mentally remark on how well he is doing so . This is movie magic , folks . Hollywood has a fascination with characters like Forrest Gump and Raymond Babbitt , but - - even more so than Gump - - Raymond is never annoying . ( That's not saying that Gump is , but . . . Raymond is even more touching and realistic . ) Raymond is a fair bit more impaired than Forrest , and we feel for him even more ( though which is the better film I could never say ) . By all means , see this movie . Drop whatever you're doing and rent it , buy it , watch it over and over . It's amazing . I don't care if I sound like a mainstream critic trying to get my quotes on the new Special Edition box of the DVD ( yes , please ! ) , I love this movie and I can't say enough good things about it .
Excellent comedy that anyone can relate to .	Bill Murray plays Phil Connors , a weatherman for a local news station . Every year he goes to Puxatawney , Pennsylvania for the Puxatawney Phil event : commonly recognized as Groundhog Day . You know how it goes . The groundhog comes out . If it sees its shadow , it's six more weeks of winter . If it doesn't , it's spring . Well , the only problem about going to this event every year for Phil is that he hates it . He hates the cheery people . The little town . The weather . The event . The story . Everything . He hates it . He is a lonely , desolate , forsaken soul . With a great cynical side . Andie McDowell plays a new manager - - err , womanager : ) - - who goes with Phil to the event , along with Chris Elliot , the cameraman . Phil reports , they tape it , it's a done deal . The end . Phil goes back home . Only one problem . Due to severe weather , the roads have all been closed , leaving only one option : Stay in Puxatawney until the storm blows over . So , Phil heads back to his cheery hotel , and tucks in for a dreaded nap . But when he wakes the next morning , something odd happens . The day is the exact same day as before . It is Groundhog Day . Again . Phil panics as he finds everything exactly the same as it was the day before . He knows everything that is going to happen . He shrugs it off as a weird case of deja-vu and heads back to sleep . But when he wakes up , alas ! The day is . . . yesterday . Again . Technically . So Phil comes to terms with the fact that there is now way out of this small little town . He tries everything . He steps in front of a moving car . He electrocutes himself . He jumps off a building . All to no avail . Oh , he dies , all right . But the next day he's back and it's Groundhog Day again . Part of what makes " Groundhog Day " so excellent is the story . The characters and actors alone are great enough to recommend this movie , but the truth is , I cannot think of a better story to throw someone like Bill Murray into . He uses his smart-alecky ways to a new extreme . His character is a bit like Scrooge from the tale " A Christmas Story , " which is ironic , because Murray was in a parody on Scrooge's tale called " Scrooged . " Anyway . Bill Murray is perfect as the irreverent and cynical Phil . Everything he does he carries out with a dumb , " I'm-smarter-than-you " face . He thinks himself better than everyone else . He thinks he is smart by skipping the big Holiday ordeal . It is all so stupid to him . But , as this story teaches us , having an attitude like that can get you in big trouble . Harold Ramis , director of " Analyze This , " star of " Stripes , " directed " Groundhog Day . " Bill and he are old pals , and it sure shows . I bet they had a great time making this movie . But what is good about it is that while making a fun movie they didn't forget to come up with an interesting and audience-catching tale . Another thing that is great about " Groundhog Day " is that Phil Connors does what we would do . For example : When he finds out he has this ability to repeat the same day over and over , he does things the average person would do . The human weakness . Too many comedies with the same formula don't try to exploit this human weakness , but " Groundhog Day " does . We see Phil memorize the steps to successfully robbing an armored truck filled with cash . But the reason he can go to bed with a clear conscience is because he knows the next day that everything will be back to normal again . He will never have robbed the truck , never have bought a Ferarri , etc . Phil does what WE would do , and that is one importance aspect of " Groundhog Day . " I would never rob an armored truck , but if I was stuck living the same day over and over , it would do no harm to take the cash - it would be back in the truck in the morning ! So , I might do that . ( although my conscience would still get in the way . ) There was a little comedy with John Candy named " Delirious . " It was about a soap opera writer getting trapped in his own world . And everything he writes on his typewriter comes true . While the movie was good , and pretty interesting , there were so many things Candy could have done with the ability to create and control any - and every - thing , and he didn't do them . I think that's where " Groundhog Day " steps in , filling in the blanks . There's nothing I love more than watching a comedy where the main character divulges into the human nature - in other words , I love watching the character do something the average human would do when given the power ( s ) . And that's exactly what Phil does in " Groundhog Day . " And that is why , among other things , it is one of my favorites . stars
Kubrick's best serious film	Everyone always raves about " 2001 : A Space Odyssey , " but I've never really warmed up to it as a film . I feel it's now outdated , pretentious and showy - - at the time , it worked because people were in awe of its effects and futuristic interpretations . . . nowadays it is distinctly ' 60s-ish , with its drug trip ending empty and really just a way of expressing psychedelic visuals . " Paths of Glory " is Kubrick's best serious film . ( I'd say his best ever if " Dr . Strangelove " didn't exist . ) It's anti-war , but more subtle than his 1987 blunder " Full Metal Jacket " ( one of the most disappointing war films I've ever seen ) , which lost its point midway and never really recovered . " The Shining " and " A Clockwork Orange " are great films as well but in my opinion " Paths of Glory " is Kubrick's best serious film . " Paths of Glory " retains a strong point throughout and is consistently engrossing . It is a World War I picture , but at its heart any war could have been used - this is an examination of the affects of war . It is well-acted ( Douglas ' best performance ever ! ) , brilliantly directed and scripted , and features a terrific ending that ranks as ( arguably ) one of the top-ten best , ever . Kubrick kept returning to the themes of warfare - - " Barry Lyndon , " " Full Metal Jacket " - - but this is his best of the genre and , in my opinion , probably his best dramatic film . A must-see !
One of the best comedies ever , and the best " SNL " I can think of . . .	There's something funny about the actual Blues Brothers , Jake and Elwood . You don't even have to hear them say anything particularly funny to laugh at the sheer sight of the wacky duo lined up against one another , wearing the infamous clothing and sunglasses . And since their appearance on " Saturday Night Live , " and then later in their milestone feature film , they have infiltrated society . " The Blues Brothers " ( 1980 ) is , and will remain as far as I see it , the funniest " SNL " skit adaptation to ever hit the big screen . The problem with adapting characters from 5-minute skits on " Saturday Night Live " is the fact that they are just that - - 5-minute skits - - and are not substantial enough to merit any type of further focus . Backdrops are not needed - - all we need are quirky characters with distinguishing traits or gestures that will make us laugh . " The Ladies Man , " " The Coneheads , " " A Night At the Roxbury , " and " Superstar " are all examples of material stretched too far - - basically just skits multiplied by their original running length some 15 or so times . In fact , there are really only two or three feature length movies with " SNL " characters that are any good . I love " Saturday Night Live , " but even I have to admit that some things are not meant to be turned into a movie . I'd rather see a compilation of the character's best moments on the show hit the big screen as opposed to a weak plot-driven film about them doing many unfunny things a quarter as funny as anything on the television program . " The Blues Brothers " has a great plot ( considering it's an " SNL " film ) and a great pair of characters . Jake Blues ( John Belushi ) has just been released from prison , greeted by his taller ( and more slender ) brother Elwood ( Dan Aykroyd ) . They visit the old Catholic home where they were raised as children by " The Penguin , " and are instantly thrust into a mission to save the orphanage by raising a ton of money before it is due to close . How will they do this ? Reunite their old band , of course ! But it won't be easy , because in the process they get entangled in the affairs of a Neo-Nazi and a heavily armed woman ( cameo by Carrie Fisher ) . They also get entwined in a bunch of musical sequences with blues legends such as James Brown , Aretha Franklin , and Ray Charles . ( John Candy also stars in this film , and in John Hughes ' masterpiece " Planes , Trains and Automobiles , " he did the " mess around " to Ray Charles ' song on the radio while driving an awful car . ) It's all in the name of fun , of course . Oh , and in the name of God . Quoting Elwood , " We're on a mission from God . " Not exactly a laugh-out-loud line of dialogue , but the more you think about it , the funnier it becomes . All my readers are probably aware of the fact that I absolutely love " Saturday Night Live " and all its actors . ( Well , most of them . ) Especially the older posse of actors such as Bill Murray , Chevy Chase , Dan Aykroyd , Steve Martin ( frequent guest host ) , John Belushi , et al . They're like dear old friends and every time I see them on old reruns of the television show I get instant nostalgia . When you become a fan of " Saturday Night Live , " you enter a sort of small group of friends you've never even met . You just somehow feel very close to the actors and their friends . John Landis , the film's director , was one of those close friends of Dan Aykroyd like Harold Ramis . The Blues Brothers are two of the best characters to ever come out of " Saturday Night Live . " We've seen a lot of characters like Mango and Mary Katharine Gallagher lately , but the best characters are the fondest - - Wayne and Garth , The Lounge Singer , The Coneheads , The Cheeseburger Guy , The Blues Brothers . And just about any character Steve Martin plays . I can't explain why I enjoy " Saturday Night Live " so much - - is it the humor ? the acting ? the familiarity feel ? - - but I can say that I DO love it , and I love " The Blues Brothers . " Sequels can become nasty things or splendid things , and " The Blues Brothers 2000 , " which reunited Aykroyd and Landis ( the director ) , was a failure . A compilation of musical sketches and a terribly recycled plot , it was a sure sign that The Blues Brothers themselves worked not only because of Elwood but also because of Jake , and " The Blues Brothers " the movie worked not because of a recycled plot but because of an original one . ( And here's advice for the filmmakers : never , ever replace John Belushi with John Goodman ever , ever again . ) I am sure that anyone who enjoyed " Ghostbusters " or any type " SNL " - alumni film will absolutely adore " The Blues Brothers . " I mean , this is the stuff legends are made of . Jake and Elwood Blues , two of the most familiar faces of all time . How can you not laugh at this film ? It's impossible . Yes , it's a bit long , and yes , you have to sit through some blues music ; but they're The Blues Brothers . What else would you expect ? stars . - John Ulmer
The gameplay is fantastic	Forget the movie for a second . " Resident Evil , " the game , works just as well theatrically as it does in terms of gameplay - - it's an addictive experience with haunting visuals , a creepy perfectly suited score and tense , suspense-building action that propels into bloody gore . I've never felt so nervous and sweaty while playing an RPG before . This is the type of game that builds up all the tension until finally , out of nowhere , a zombie appears and it really freaks you out . Unlike the film , it takes its time getting to where it's going and works well as such . The only game I've ever felt as paranoid playing in the past was " Aliens vs . Predators 2 , " which in the marine campaign was really scary and took its time delivering the action . Don't get me wrong . I thought the " Resident Evil " movie bashers were overly-cruel . It was , after all , just a silly action movie and worked as such entertainment . But the game is better . Much better . Nine years later it still packs a bloody punch and is one of the best games ever . I'd rank it in the top ten . Best of all ? It's got brains , too . It doesn't just require a quick trigger finger . Highly , highly recommended .
" Overall , ' Christmas Vacation ' establishes itself as one of the best Christmas films to emerge out of Tinseltown in the last twenty years , along with ' Home Alone ' and ' Gremlins ' "	National Lampoon's Christmas VacationIn this third installment of the widely successful and popular ' Vacation ' franchise , Chevy Chase returns to his role of Clark Griswold , along with Beverly D'Angelo as his wife Ellen . Also along for the ride is Randy Quaid , reprising his role as Uncle Eddie from the first film . ' Christmas Vacation ' doesn't really take the same formula as the first ' Vacation ' film , but it certainly is as funny . What I mean when I say , ' The formula isn't the same , ' is that the original film was about a family taking a road trip across America ; the humor was restricted to jokes regarding road travel . The second film did the same , but became tiresome after a while . Now , ' Christmas ' works in the restraints of not a road travel comedy , but of a Christmas comedy : the family coming , the frustrations and aggravations of ? Christmas ! But also , the film captures the pure joy of Christmas at the same time , as the first film did with traveling . Perhaps the fact that John Hughes , writer of ' Vacation , ' wrote this film ; I feel he did so because he wanted to get the series back on track after the first sequel . In an interview once , James Cameron said of ' Terminator 2 ' : ' I knew the sequel would be made ; I wanted to carry it on in the right direction and not let it stray from the right path ? ' or something vaguely familiar to that . I feel that is what John Hughes did with this film . I think , in his mind , he thought this would be the last sequel , and he wanted to end it with a bang . Of course , almost a decade later in 1997 , audiences were introduced to ' Vegas Vacation , ' which is , in my opinion , an underrated comedy , but I'll get into that in my next ' Vacation ' review . Clark Griswold has finally settled in for a peaceful Christmas with his family , including children Audrey ( Juliette Lewis ) and Rusty ( Johnny Galecki ) . The family is coming , including Clark Wilhelm Griswold , Sr . ( John Randolph ) , Nora Griswold ( Diane Ladd ) , Art ( E . G . Marshall ) , and Doris Roberts as loudmouth Frances . Only this year , Clark has made sure that EVERYTHING will go as planned . Unfortunately for him , and fortunately for us ( very much so ! ) , Clark's planning will be to no avail , as everything , much the same in the previous films , will go to pieces and this Christmas will be just as crazy as the Christmases before . Chevy Chase found his roots in the ' Vacation ' films ; I really do not enjoy him as a regular actor / comedian , but he is perfect as Clark Griswold . He is extremely gung-ho , and has all these crazy notions and the idea of an absolute perfect vacation built up in his head , and it is more than enjoyable as we watch them wither away while he loses his cool . Beverly D'Angelo is , as I said in my review on the first film , surprisingly convincing as a housewife . I would never expect for her to work as an average mother , but behold , she does . The kids in this new movie are good . They may not be as great as Anthony Michael Hall and Dana Barron were , but their attitudes fit the characters for THIS script much better : Audrey has a bigger attitude and Rusty is younger and more innocent . And in this movie , the filmmakers return to what helped make the first movie so good : Cousin Eddie . I think his lack of presence in the second film really harmed its reputation , but this film brings him back in a hilarious introduction sequence outside the house ( ' Eddie ? ! ) . All in all , the film has some excellent gags and parodies the Christmas season we all go through very , very well . While I don't think it is quite as good as the first ' Vacation ' movie , it is almost as good . The reason it's hard to evaluate in comparison is because it is so different from the original ; the formula as I said before is entirely different . In fact , director Jeremiah S . Chechik seems to give the film an entirely different overtone . The first film had an orange tint to it , in a way , because it took place in summer and the Griswold family drove through some very dry areas . In this movie , it is Christmas , and the cinematography is ? bleaker ? Weighed down ? Darker ? Not in a bad way , in a good way . It suits the film . But all these little tidbits make it harder to efficiently compare the two films together because they are so different . Overall , ' Christmas Vacation ' establishes itself as one of the best Christmas films to emerge out of Tinseltown in the last twenty years , along with ' Home Alone . ' It just parodies the season we all love so well , that it has become , for me , a Christmas tradition . I watch it at LEAST once a year around Christmas , but usually five , six , maybe seven times a year . Sometime I'm going to have to buy it on DVD and stop watching a taped NBC broadcast of the film . ' Christmas Vacation ' gets stars from me ? it's a great satire . John Ulmer
One of my all-time favorites that could justifiably be named Hitchcock's second best ( with PSYCHO being number one ) .	For most of its duration , not a single shot in Alfred Hitchcock's " Rear Window " takes place outside the small , lonely apartment of L . B . Jeffries ( James Stewart ) . Every exterior pan originates through the eyes of the injured photographer , whose broken leg has him restrained to a wheelchair , living off of the meals of his caretaker , Stella ( Thelma Ritter ) . When his fiancée , Lisa ( Grace Kelly ) , stands outside the window , we see her ? but we're still in the room . The camera does not position itself on the sidewalk , or above the flowerbed next to her , or in the window of another room ? it stays put . What Hitchcock does here is nothing short of brilliant ? the movie turns us into unconscious voyeurs as we are forced to take on the perspective of the protagonist , and participate in his constant eavesdropping . This technique of isolation and confinement forms a sort of disturbing effect that smothers the viewer on a subconscious level ? we can feel it , but can't necessarily put a finger on what , exactly , it is . The movie is also particularly risqué for its time ? 50 years later it's the sort of film that would probably receive a PG rating ( and , in fact , after being restored and re-released in 2000 , it did ) . There is no foul language , no sex , no nudity , no violence ( per se ) , and no drug content . But there are many insinuations ? e . g . the mental image Hitchcock forms in his viewers ' minds , of the man next door murdering his wife ; the innuendo involving Lisa's overnight stay at Jeffries ' ( and her dress that sparks the interest of a private detective ) ; the newlywed couple next door ( " No comment , " Jeffries tells Lisa ) ; Miss Torso , the ballerina who lives across the street and the amount of time Jeffries spends watching her dance and change out of clothes . Jeffries has injured his leg after trying to take a daring photograph - - now he doesn't have a television or any other means of entertainment , so he amuses himself by studying the lives of others . Sound familiar ? With " Reality TV " shows such as " Survivor , " " Big Brother " and " Fear Factor , " America's growing fascination with voyeuristic programming is becoming rather startling . Although the 1987 action picture " The Running Man " ( and its source manuscript by Stephen King ) is often credited with accurately depicting this odd form of entertainment , " Rear Window " ? to a certain degree ? predicted it much earlier . 34 years earlier , to be exact . One night while studying the rooms across the street , Jeffries notices a strange man carrying a briefcase in and out of a darkened room . The man's disabled wife ( who demands his constant care ) is nowhere to be seen . The next day , she is gone , apparently on a train ; but Jeffries notices Thorvald ( Raymond Burr ) , the mysterious man , cleaning a sharp knife in the kitchen sink . Could he have committed murder ? Jeffries believes so , and convinces Lisa and Stella , too . They begin to piece together a number of clues ? a disheveled flower bed , a purse , fake letters ? that lead to one conclusion : Murder . The problem is that no one else believes them . A movie such as " Rear Window " would never work nowadays . The main character would entertain himself with technology ? not voyeurism . The windows would not be left open for fear of burglary . Police would be more willing to believe such a " far-fetched " story , and the private detective probably wouldn't shrug off Jeffries like he does in the film . This is evidenced by the poor remake starring Christopher Reeves , made for television ? it didn't make any sense because it was set in this day and age , featuring an outdated concept . It almost seemed silly , and was vastly inferior . But it works in the 1950s , and as a film , " Rear Window ' still holds up beautifully today ? despite its dated premise ( or , at least , execution ) , the other elements of the story keep it interesting . We are willing to suspend our disbelief because it is so great . And because " back then " the story's progression seems more natural than it ever would today . The performances are flawless ? James Stewart is completely convincing as Jeffries , a man controlled by his own impulses . Likewise Hitchcock's typical blonde love interest , Grace Kelly , is marvelous ? beautiful and likable , willing to do anything for Jeffries , which includes breaking into Thorvald's room while he's out and about ( which results in one of the most nerve-jangling suspense sequences of all time ) . And Raymond Burr is utterly petrifying as Thorvald , who is almost always seen from a distance , with his odd white hair and continually narrowed eyes that just scream murder . " Rear Window " is often considered by most critics to be Alfred Hitchcock's greatest masterpiece . For my money , " Psycho " ( 1960 ) is his best ? but " Rear Window " may very well be number two . With a career comprised of some truly amazing motion pictures ( " The 39 Steps , " " The Lady Vanishes , " " The Man Who Knew Too Much , " " Shadow of a Doubt , " " Strangers on a Train , " " Vertigo , " etc . ) , it will always be hard to choose Hitchcock's " best " movie ? but in terms of narrative , and film-making , and acting , " Rear Window " could justifiably be called one of his all-time greatest . And , all considered , that's not a compliment to be taken very lightly .
Live from New York , it's Saturday Night !	There's something infectious about Will Ferrell . He's like a giddy boy ready to do anything for a laugh - - and more often than not he delivers . Whereas recent comic additions to NBC's " Saturday Night Live " have done nothing but harm the show , Will Ferrell remained the top in the game from his reign during 1995 - 2002 . He's finally left the show , probably to be replaced by some unfunny dimwit like Jimmy Fallon . Ferrell's got about five projects lined up for the next few years , including " Curious George " and " Bewitched . " I've had my eye on him for quite some time . I'm glad that his career is finally getting off the ground . In this 72 minute collection of his best skits , it's evident that the man has a keen observation for comedy and what works . Take , for instance , his impersonation of Robert Goulet in an interview with Conan O'Brian , included on the DVD . His catchphrase is " Goulet ! " , and he uses it as a fallback method when there are long moments of no comedic passage between the two . But he never overuses it like a lesser comedian might do . This is all minor stuff , of course , but it's the minor stuff - - in the end - - that counts . We've got the best of the best here : Bobbi and Marty Culp , George W . Bush , Harry Caray , and more . It's all good fun , too . Watching Ferrell makes the time fly by - - the 72 minutes feel like thirty . I've seen a handful of better " SNL " stints involving Will than those included on this DVD . Running at 72 minutes , I feel that producer Lorne Michaels could have pushed for at least 90 minutes of footage - - the basic running time for a motion picture . Two hours would have been great , too - - there sure is enough footage . A few scenes are spliced together and not shown in their entirety - - the film takes bits and pieces from different skits and then includes the full-length ones such as " Celebrity Jeopardy " here and there . But it's a small complaint , because you'll be laughing so darn hard you'll wet yourself . My favorite skit of the collection ? Probably " Celebrity Jeopardy " or the Harry Caray skit with Jeff Goldblum , ruined only because Goldblum somehow forgot his lines . Ferrell saved him by subtly pointing him in the right directions . At one point , Goldblum leans forward and says , " I'm not sure how to answer that , " an obvious indication that he has forgotten his lines . " It's not rocket science , just say yes and we'll move on , " Ferrell replies , still in character , of course . And another thing I noticed it that Ferrell induces laughter but laughs at his own gags and those surrounding him very little - - and when he starts to smile he quickly hides the grin , unlike Jimmy Fallon who on basically every single skit on this DVD cracks up and can't control himself . ( I'm not exaggerating . He cracks up on every skit . ) Many comedians got their careers started on " SNL . " There was Dan Aykroyd , Chevy Chase , Bill Murray , John Belushi , and Steve Martin , such a frequent host of the television show when it first aired on NBC starting in 1975 that he was often considered a castmember himself . Over the past few years , " SNL " has gotten stuck in a rut - - the last time it was consistently funny was during the late eighties and early nineties , when such comedians as Mike Myers and Dana Carvey flaunted their comedic charm for the camera and led their way to aspiring film careers , coughing up " Wayne's World " and " Austin Powers , " to name a few well-known titles . Will Ferrell is following that chain reaction . A true " SNL " comedian in the sense of the meaning , and with his promising film career ahead of him , it's evident he may just become the next Chevy Chase or Bill Murray or Steve Martin . It's the true " SNL " dream , and by golly , he's living it . Thanks for the laughs , Will . " Saturday Night Live : The Best of Will Ferrell " runs 72 minutes and has a bundle of special features , including : Will's audition tape , a deleted dress rehearsal scene , two Conan O'Brian interviews , a photo gallery , and more . It is not rated and contains mild sexual references / nudity and language . stars . - John Ulmer
Not as good as I'd heard it was , but Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker's chemistry and Chan's martial arts makes it worth watching !	The above sums it up pretty much . It's a bit better than the first , and the martail arts sequences with Jackie Chan as always were a pleasure . And surprisingly enough , Chan and Tucker have very good comedic chemistry . One of those weird facts of life I guess . stars-JOHN ULMER
" John Candy uses his natural comedic charm in this film ; he is loveable and huggable . "	' Uncle Buck'If you have read my other reviews , you would have realized that one of my favorite directors is John Hughes . Not because of his teen movies , but because he made my favorite comedy ever : ' Planes , Trains and Automobiles ' with Steve Martin and John Candy . But that has little to do with Uncle Buck ; if you want to read my review on ' Planes ? ' it is on this site . Anyway ? John Hughes ' second to last film he directed was a little , low budget comedy named ' Uncle Buck , ' about a guy named Buck ( John Candy ) and his ordeals of the week . Basically , to make a long story short , Buck's brother and sister-in-law are called out of town because of a family emergency . But , unfortunately , they cannot leave their three children ( a teenager and two smaller kids ) at home , alone . After calling many neighbors to no avail , Buck's brother realizes that the only option left is a big , large slob named Buck . John Candy brings his warm screen presence straight outta ' downtown Chicago to watch the kids for ' A week at the most . ' Little does he know what will ensue . Buck has no idea whatsoever how to care for kids . One of the most endearing things about this comedy is his chemistry and connection with the smaller children . Another funny thing is how Buck handles the teenage girl . She is used to being free , basically ; but Buck , like most parents and adults , has been through things before , and knows everything going on in her life and what it will lead to . He sees right through her boyfriend ' Bug ' to his real intentions . ' Uncle Buck ' has some very , very funny moments . Some of the gags fall short a bit , but it is still a winner . Some of the best parts are stretched-out , making it even funnier . The thing about ' UB ' is that unlike many comedies , there are long segments that are funny , instead of individual jokes throughout like ' Airplane ' and Mel Brooks films . ' Uncle Buck ' is NOT slapstick . It is a comedy , plain and simple . But this does not mean it doesn't have any good lines . There are some funny one-liners that have John Candy saying things like ' Ever heard of a ritual killing , ' etc ? ( anyone who's seen the movie knows what I mean ) . John Candy uses his natural comedic charm in this film ; he is loveable and huggable . Macaulay Culkin has his best role in this film . He was not yet an annoying brat , and could actually handle his lines , for once , without sounding like he is reading off a piece of cardboard ( see ' Home Alone ' and / or ' The Good Son ' ) . John Hughes directs the film in his typical fashion . I'm not sure what that fashion is , but whatever it is , it's good . Basically , when it all comes down to it , ' Uncle Buck ' delivers everything you want in a comedy . It's great for a Friday or Saturday night . It may not be as great as ' Planes ? ' but it sure as heck is funny . Every time I see the freeze-frame ending it makes me want to cry ( well , I feel sad , at least ) , because like ' Planes ? ' the freeze-frame captures John Candy at his best , with his heart shining through . I think that is why he is one of the greatest comedians ever . It makes me sad when I think of his death . We miss you , John . John Candy : 1950-1994
One of the best films ever - a lot of people missed the point	It's ironic that I'm saying " many people missed the point " because I did , too . My original review on IMDb gave the film a negative rating . I deleted it months ago because I have since purchased the Director's Cut on DVD and fallen in love with it . The movie is energetic , imaginative and unique . It's taken from Irvine Welsh's novel , which I now really want to read . It's about a group of heroin addicts ( led by Ewan McGregor's Renton ) in Scotland who can't seem to live past their addiction . . . everything centers around drugs . " Trainspotting " was condemned for promoting drug use , but I agree with fellow reviewer Bob the Moo who claims this was a misinterpretation on the media's behalf - yeah , it may show drugs as being " funny " at times ( like Renton's wacky hallucination ) but it certainly doesn't glamorize them . Some of the sequences are sickeningly realistic and depressing - like the scene with the baby . That's tragic stuff , and totally unexpected . It's also effective because by that point in the film we care about the characters enough for it to affect us on an emotional level . The movie was really popular in the UK but never got much acclaim overseas . Americans in general will always be less liberal and be quicker to damn films for their messages . " Taxi Driver " was hailed by Europeans in ' 76 . . . can't really say the same for US critics - it was a huge split in opinion at the time . Ditto here . Most Americans didn't really " get it " and the only attention it received was the controversy surrounding the appearance of Mr . McGregor's genitalia . Oh , the humanity ! If you haven't seen " Trainspotting " yet , I highly recommend it . Don't be turned off at first by its bleak humor and sick content - I won't lie , it IS a rough ride . . . but by the end , it's worth it .
A Very Underrated Cop-Doggy Comedy . . . Perhaps the Best of the Genre . . .	Scott Turner ( Tom Hanks ) is a clean-cut cop . He keeps his house constantly clean and very organized . But after chaos ensues he ends up with the only witness of a crime scene : a very messy , dirty , hairy , slob of a beast - a dog . Actually , a " dawg " to be correct . That's the breed , supposedly . . . Tom Hanks is very convincing and enjoyable in his role as a neat-freak cop , and the dog , surprisingly ( I never thought I'd write this ) is a great actor . There are predictable and very typical eighties moments in " Turner and Hootch , " but overall I thought the movie was a very enjoyable cop-doggy comedy , and it has a very nice ending to it ( " This is not yours ! " When compared to other cop-dog movies like " K-9 , " it's a wonder that Turner and Hootch isn't on the top 250 ! stars - John Ulmer
There are only so many times you can single-handedly rip off a famous film , and " Mr . Destiny " knows this , and plays right to the fact . It doesn't try to be anything it isn't ; rather , it is somethin	Mr . Destiny - Stars " Mr . Destiny's " theme is recycled from many films spanning many different years . Its theme ranges from recent spoofs on such plots ( see " Scrooged " ) , to the same , more serious and dramatic notion that worked in " It's a Wonderful Life , " and a century earlier in the story of Scrooge as told by Charles Dickens in " A Christmas Carol . " " It involves an ungrateful man being taken on a guided tour of his life , and witnessing how his life could have been ( or would have been ) first-hand . In most of these types of movies the guardian angel rescues a man from ungratefulness and shows him his life in retrospect , or how it could have been . Should have been . Would have been . In this case we are shown a businessman named Larry ( James Belushi ) . He hates his life . He lives with an unexciting wife ( Linda Hamilton ) and yearns for a bigger life with bigger meaning . If only he had hit the ball at the state championship in high school years ago . He is convinced his life would have been better . I guess he remembers this seemingly small moment of his life because it made a big impact on his subconscious side , but I doubt a grown man would yearn for one single act from high school . Still , it works in the movie . Anyway , Larry is driving home from work one night , where he is a penpusher along with Jon Lovitz , when his car breaks down . He wanders into a bar looking for a pay phone , and reluctantly decides to tell the bartender ( Michael Caine ) about the way his life is turning out . This is where we first see him remembering his childhood baseball strike-out . The bartender listens and nods , apparently not worrying about any other customers . This is probably due to the fact that the bar , though old and tattered , seems to have never been occupied by any living humans save these two men . In fact , Larry even makes a comment about never seeing the bar before . This is most likely for a certain reason that the audience is expecting before Larry . So the bartender , who may as well be an angel of God incarnate , just like Clarence , fixes Larry a special drink of his , which ends up putting Larry's life on reverse , showing him what his life would have been like if he had hit the home run all those years before . But Larry has no idea of any change at first , just like Jimmy Stewart didn't realize that Clarence had erased his life until he went into the bar and got kicked out Larry continues to be oblivious to any change until he goes to his home to find the lawn different outside , and a large , wrestler-type man occupying his home . Larry soon finds out his life would indeed have been very different had he hit the home run . Instead of marrying Linda Hamilton he married Rene Russo and moved into a large mansion with children . He finds out that Jon Lovitz is no longer his friend but an employee of his . And the most surprising fact of all is that with his new life , that Larry has always wanted . . . he finds himself lusting after his old wife , Linda Hamilton ; proof that sometimes money and a great-looking yet shallow wife don't make up everything in a man's life , like an intelligent wife and love and true happiness . Just like " It's a Wonderful Life " showed the audience a man's life is what he makes it , and that every person has an impact on people , " Mr . Destiny " shows us that material wealth is not the same as spiritual wealth , a lesson taught us over and over again , but never quite so fluffy , forgettable and truly sweet as it is shown us in " Mr . Destiny . " " Mr . Destiny " is never exceedingly hilarious , but it is a sweet , good-natured comedy that never takes itself too seriously . The problem with all the " It's a Wonderful Life " retreads out there , like " The Family Man , " is that they try to be as influential and memorable as " It's a Wonderful Life " was . But there are only so many times you can single-handedly rip off a famous film , and " Mr . Destiny " knows this , and plays right to the fact . It doesn't try to be anything it isn't ; rather , it is something it didn't try to be , and this is obvious to the audience .
Pure Heaven .	After a car is stolen by a gangster : " And where did you learn to jump start a car ? " " I had to learn to jump start ambulances to get invalids to the dialysis machines . " - Joan Cusack and Steve Martin , " My Blue Heaven . " There's a lot of fun to be found in " My Blue Heaven , " a simple little comedy with only good intentions . I find it almost impossible to dislike - it has little offensive material , it isn't a stupid , recycled movie packaged with marketable trimmings . Instead , it is a joyful little flick that knows it is no Oscar winner but still tries to entertain its audience . And it does . " My Blue Heaven " is pure heaven for anyone who appreciates fine comedy - it's a little bit wacky , a little bit goofy , and very , very funny . Steve Martin is perfectly cast as the wild and crazy Vincent Antonelli , a Mafia informer who has been entered into the Witness Protection Program . His wife wants no part of their new , cheery life in a suburban America so she leaves him early on . Rick Moranis is equally well-cast as Barney Coopersmith , the FBI agent assigned to protect Vinnie and make sure his new life is suitable to his comfort . Barney's wife has just left him , too . She complains that he is too anal-retentive . She even mentions that he has a technique for getting equal amounts of butter on his waffles . Meanwhile , Vinnie soon tires of his new life and resorts to crime - first little things , such as marking down prices on meat in the local grocery store - which results in the best single line in the entire film , when a perky employee greets Vinnie . His response is a four-letter-word that isn't nearly as ( c ) rude as it seems it would be at first . Soon he meets up with old partners and crime and they form a new crime syndicate - much to the chagrin of a female police officer named Hannah Stubbs ( Joan Cusack ) , who seems to be the perfect match for Barney Coopersmith . Hannah is unable to prosecute Vinnie because he is a Federal Witness . At first she and Barney hate each other . Then they grow closer . Vinnie watches on with joyful interest . And what makes this movie so enjoyable , in part , is the chemistry between Martin and Moranis . It's their first film together since " Parenthood . " They're a good duo , and Martin is so out of character here you start to forget it's even him playing an Italian mobster . Compare Vincent Antonelli to Neal Page ( Martin's character in " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " ) , and the difference in not only attitude but mannerisms and levels of intensity is clearly evident . Martin can play the middle-class American white male especially well , but this film clearly shows that he has not left his wacky background in such films as " The Jerk " far behind . " My Blue Heaven " came out the same year as " Goodfellas " ( 1990 ) . It was impeccable timing - at the end of " Goodfellas " we are left with the penetrating image of Ray Liotta's character Henry Hill outside a suburban home in a cheery neighborhood which , remarkably , looks exactly like the neighborhood in " My Blue Heaven . " It could be argued that " My Blue Heaven " is an immediate sequel in some senses . Where " Goodfellas " left off " My Blue Heaven " starts - it just throws in some comedy . Which is why I don't understand its small impact when it first arrived in theaters . ( Suffice to say , it sorta flopped . ) I own this film on a VHS tape I purchased for $4 . 99 at Wal-Mart . I found it lying in the bottom of a discount video barrel with no-name titles . There are comedic gems that have gained respect over the years , and then there are comedic gems that have slipped by unnoticed . " My Blue Heaven " wasn't very noticed upon its release in 1990 , the few critics who saw it seemed not to pay any attention to it . Funny how some of the most joyful comedies slip by . My Blue Heaven " is a few laughs short of a comic masterpiece . .
" 1984 " Redux - a Gilliam masterpiece , clever and cynical .	Note : I originally submitted a review of " Brazil " two years ago . I gave it a negative rating . I didn't like it . I said it was " weird , " silly , and ruined by a lousy middle-section . Then I began my Gilliam fix and became more familiar with his work . I saw " Brazil " again and liked it much , much more and came to appreciate the dark humor . The story is about a worker named Sam Lowry ( Pryce ) , who exists in a futuristic hell and is sent into a downward spiral after becoming caught up in the affairs of a mysterious dream woman ( Kim Griest ) and a couple of mistaken identities involving a man named Harry Tuttle ( De Niro ) . This is what I wrote of " Brazil " in 2003 : " The beginning of the film is fairly good , with good atmosphere and visual effects , but Gilliam soon takes us into the mind of Lowry halfway through the film , and it turns into a grim psychological thriller with a bunch of dead ends and forgotten ideas . Sam's dream sequences , which have him dressed in an angelic armor with big white-feathered wings , are beautiful to look at . . . but what else are they good for ? " I disagree with this now . It's true , the film changes courses - but for the better . I guess I didn't really " get it " the first time . The film features an all-star cast , including Bob Hoskins , Ian Holm , Michael Palin , and of course Mr . Robert De Niro ( who is second credited but does nothing but three or four brief cameos in the film ) . I will freely admit that I saw the European version of " Brazil , " which reportedly varies from the original US theatrical cut in a number of ways . There is an added sex scene , the ending is different ( no clouds ) , and there are at least five scenes added to the version ( it stands at some 140 minutes compared to the 131-minute US cut ) . So with that in mind , perhaps I'd enjoy the director's cut even more . In fact , there are supposedly somewhere around 30 versions of the film out there , including a " happy " version aired on network television in the States ( it reminds me of " Gremlins 2 , " when the announcer claims that " Casablanca " is now complete with " a happier ending . " ) , and a 97-minute " Love Conquers All " version , handled carefully by Gilliam and available for the die hard fans on the soon-to-be-discontinued Criterion Collection DVD .
One of my ( personal ) favorite comedies . John Hughes strikes again !	Parents have never understood the youth of the world . Elvis used to be evil . Now he's too tame for modern music enthusiasts . Just imagine how tame Eminem will seem years from now . And as a scarier thought , who ( or what ) could be worse than some of the singers on today's market ? John Hughes is locked in a time capsule , still bearing the mind of a teenager , and he is able to tap into these feelings of teenage angst . That is what separates " The Breakfast Club " from , say , " The New Guy , " or one of those other stupid teen films of recent years . And the jerk , played by Judd Nelson , isn't meant to be cool . He is a jerk , and if older viewers took the time to pay attention to the film , they would perhaps realize that the point of the film , from the very beginning , is to establish that this so-called jerk is only acting like one to get attention . Because he is obviously shunned at home . He's an outcast . And unlike other films that refuse to establish their characters , " The Breakfast Club " introduces him as a jerk , and proceeds to explain why he is that way . This is what makes this movie tick . I knew a kid like Bender ( Nelson ) once when I was in school , and generations of kids continue to go through the exact same things . Once they reach a certain age , though , it seems as though all adults suddenly break away from the teenage emotions . John Hughes never did , I guess . ( Although he certainly tapped into adult behavior with his best film , " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " [ 1987 ] , a welcome introduction to Hughes ' adult comedy , hinted at in " Vacation " [ 1981 ] , which he wrote . ) The film opens with a quote from David Bowie that just about sums the entire film up . We are introduced to five kids spending eight hours of detention at Shermer High School in Illinois . They are : Andrew the Jock ( Emilio Estevez ) , Brian the Nerd ( Anthony Michael Hall ) , Bender the Criminal ( Judd Nelson ) , Claire the Princess ( Molly Ringwald ) , and Allison the Basketcase ( Ally Sheedy ) . They are looked over by the school principal ( Paul Gleason ) , who assigns them the task of writing a report on why they are here in detention and what they did to get there . To say that the outcome is predictable is an understatement . We know who's going to get together with whom from the beginning , but getting there's all the fun . Watching the characters come to appreciate their differences and learn that they're more than just billboard examples of angry teenagers is more than half the fun . Teenagers are not as unaware of who they are as some people always think . John Hughes knew this , and deliberately tapped into this state of mind as no other director has done before - - or since , for that matter . Sure , they've tried . ( Hughes ' " Ferris Bueller's Day Off " was just about the only other film that tried to show teenagers as something more than stupid hormone-crazy rambunctious adolescents , but as young adults who were trying to grow up fast - - the scene where Ferris and Sloane pretend their water is wine is good evidence of this . ) Hughes ' teenage characters were not the clichés they are now when " The Breakfast Club " came out in 1985 - - this film has proved to be the steeple of teen clichés ( many of them poked fun at in " Not Another Teen Movie , " which features a cameo by Ringwald ) . Think of " 2001 " or " Halloween " - - the drifting spaceships and psycho killers chasing sex-hungry teenagers is now routine , but it wasn't then . The Jock , The Nerd , The Criminal , The Princess , and The Basketcase weren't clichéd back then , either - - although Hughes purposely chose these references to the characters in order to let Brian , The Nerd , say that they were more than just that in the beginning of the film when he's reading his essay in voice-over narrative . I seriously doubt whether this film is any better than the work of Coppola , Cortiz , Kurosawa , Scorsese , Welles , et al . If I were assembling a list of " the greatest movies ever made , " I'd never include this . But sometimes the greatest films aren't just the films that are technically perfect , but those that connect to you on one level or another . I know that my all-time favorite comedy ( " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " ) may not be considered better than something such as " Some Like it Hot , " but that film doesn't affect me the same way . I either don't connect with the story , the characters , the feelings , or I just don't appreciate the film as a whole . I appreciate " The Breakfast Club " in many ways , and for that reason it will always be considered one of my favorite films . Even if it is kinda sappy .
Disappointed . . . but still fun to play once in a while	I really liked the first Turok game , so when the 2nd came out I bought it . At first I put it on and I could see how dark it was . I mean I knew it was called " seeds of evil " but I didn't think it would be as dark as it is . I liked the Iguana entertainment video in the beginning , as anyone who's seen the video on the first turok game would like the 2nd one . Unfortunately I can't say the same for the actual game play . Turok is no longer the same character , it is a new turok named jason or something , and he looks different . Everything is hard to see ( because it's so dark ) , the weapons are evil looking , the boss ' and bad guys are as well , and THERE WERE NO DINOSAURS . . . . that had me going . The only dinosaurs were genetically engineered and they walked like Arnold Schwarzenegger in a cheesy looking dinosaur costume . I barely ever play the game it was such a disappointment . Only once in a while is it fun to turn on the game , get out the shotgun and blow away the enemys . Then after about 15 minutes you put the game away for a few months again . . . . and it pretty much goes on like that . The game was extremely disappointing and no wonder it was such a flop . stars ( ps ) If you want a cheat type in " BEWAREOBLIVIONISATHAND " , to activate the cheat mode
Murphy's best role - a unique fish-out-of-water comedy !	Detroit cop Axel Foley ( Eddie Murphy ) is in Beverly Hills for a few days to investigate the murder of an old acquaintance . Axel assumes the suspect is a local tycoon , but no one seems to believe him ? including the police force , being semi-run by Ronny Cox ( in one of his rare good-guy roles ) . Axel comes into trouble with the law his first day on the job after getting thrown through a glass window by some thugs . He is arrested , and when released finds himself hounded by a pair of inept police officers around the town for a few days . After outsmarting them ( in one of cinema's most delightful moments ? ever ) Axel gets hooked up with an old friend and manages to roam the streets looking for clues ? which , of course , he finds very easily . Before this film Eddie Murphy had starred in one film that had launched his name into Hollywood : " 48 HRS . " But by all reasonable comparisons this is a much , much better film , and it's also much , much funnier , too . What's most refreshing is that it doesn't fall back upon the stereotypes of African-Americans inherent in so many mainstream motion pictures ? the role of Axel Foley was originally written for Sylvester Stallone ( who was actually attached to star early on in pre-production before dropping out of the project ) and it's quite clear that Foley was intended as a white character . Although massive rewrites were employed only two weeks before shooting , script flaws can still be spotted ? the heroine of the story is a white businesswoman , for example , and we expect some sort of sexual tension between them but there is none . We begin to question the very presence of the female lead because in essence it leads nowhere . We can imagine how it might have developed into a love story , but Murphy works against the flow , awkwardly treating her as nothing more than a friend . These sorts of things sometimes bring out the occasional odd touches in the film ? ironically they unintentionally set the film apart from other such movies of the genre because it's not typical in any sense . Sure , it has the routine shoot-outs but there is no romance subplot , no pointless racial comparisons ( more of which would be seen in the two sequels ) , etc . The movie greatly benefits from this because it seems so fresh , and far more believable ? after all , rarely are romances developed in two days . The action genre always seems to end with the hero sending off the crooks to jail , and finally getting a long-awaited kiss from the leading lady . " Beverly Hills Cop , " to its credit , manages to avoid this and the result is a far more enjoyable film , even if most of its sequences are far from being 100 % realistic . The film's director , Martin Brest , has a clear handle on the buddy genre and would go on to direct the immensely successful Robert De Niro / Charles Grodin road-buddies-comedy " Midnight Run , " one of the most popular ( and best ) of the genre . Beverly Hills Cop works just as well ? it's funny when it needs to be , thrilling when it wants to be , and features a stellar lead performance by Murphy in his most unusual role . Murphy is the driving force behind the film , presenting us with a truly likable character ? the most likable character he's ever played , as a matter of fact . Axel is unorthodox but a generally good guy ? Murphy is sometimes typecast into playing roles similar to that of which he played in " 48 HRS . " ( being the loud , obnoxious racist who's got it all together ) , but here he plays someone we actually want to root for . At one point in the film he manages to get a couple of police officers in trouble with their superior ? but he takes all the blame , and actually fabricates a lie wherein they were heroes doing their job , despite the fact that they were all actually hanging out at a strip club . Axel is tough , cool , quick-witted , nice , sarcastic , and likable ? one of cinema's most enduring characters , and proof that African-American cinema heroes don't always have to be loudmouths in order to succeed as characters ( pay attention , Chris Rock and Chris Tucker ) . The now-famous soundtrack ( including ' Axel F ' by Harold Faltermeyer ) is a great blend of techno-pop and electronic rock ? the movie's theme is bouncy , rambunctious and fun : a good parallel to Axel himself . Overall " Beverly Hills Cop " exceeds exceptionally well , even if a great deal of the film's success itself derives from pure accident and chance . I don't think anyone can say that those involved in the production knew exactly what they were doing at the time ( DVD supplements include anecdotes about hectic filming and the project almost falling through at one point ) - - but as luck would have it everything turned out fine . " Beverly Hills Cop " is an immensely enjoyable film , and one of the best examples of the cop-comedy genre executed properly .
One of his very best - I've loved it since I was a child !	" Shadow of a Doubt " may only be listed as # 181 on IMDb's " Top 250 " list , but in my opinion it far outweighs some of the films higher up on that list and is one of Hitch's very best films . Joseph Cotten plays Charlie , a crook on the run from the police . Left stranded and pursued , he decides to move in with his brother's family . His niece - who loves him and sees him as a sort of perfect role model - at first is excited that her Uncle Charlie is coming . . . but then things start to get strange . Charlie acts oddly and , at times , violent . She begins to become suspicious of her uncle as he becomes more suspicious of her own awareness . The ending of " Shadow of a Doubt " is classic Hitchcock and some of the best stuff he's done . The entire film is taut and suspenseful , well-filmed and realistic . It manages to focus on family ties and the struggles within the family itself while it also juggles the whole theme of an outcast family member . In the end , however , it's just a nail-biting thriller that - now over sixty years old - still reigns as one of the absolute best of its genre .
Essential masterpiece ; powerful De Niro ; simply one of the best films of all time .	" Raging Bull " isn't the average , stereotypical underdog boxing movie , because it isn't really about boxing at all . Like most great movies , its focus is much deeper . It came out in 1980 , earned Robert De Niro a Best Actor Academy Award , and was marked down as another solid triumph by director Martin Scorsese , whose previous 1976 outing with De Niro earned them both critical acclaim ( and for De Niro , an Oscar nomination , although he would actually earn an Oscar for " Raging Bull " four years later ) . It dwindled in production hell for quite some time , with Scorsese's drug use halting production and only the duo's strong willpower that kept the project moving ahead . It was after De Niro read boxer Jake LaMotta's memoirs that he knew he wanted to make the film , so Scorsese and De Niro turned to Paul Schrader for a script . Schrader , who had previously written " Taxi Driver " ( 1976 ) , agreed , and wrote the screenplay for them . The rest is history . " Raging Bull " has often been regarded as the greatest film of the 80s . To be honest , I'm not so sure about that , since various genres offer different feelings and emotions ( comparing this to a comedy might seem rather silly ) . But to say it is one of the most powerful films of all time would be no gross overstatement - - it is superb film-making at its finest . De Niro gained 60 pounds to play LaMotta , which was an all-time record at the time ( later beaten by Vincent D'Onofrio , who gained 70 pounds for Stanley Kubrick's " Full Metal Jacket " ) . His physical transformation is on-par with any great screen makeover , especially the most recent , ranging from Willem Dafoe in " Shadow of the Vampire " to Charlize Theron in " Monster . " In addition , co-star Joe Pesci also lost weight for his role of Joey , LaMotta's short , eccentric brother . The greatest scene in the film is when LaMotta accuses his brother of having an affair with his wife . The tension is raw , the dialogue amazing , and the overall intensity electrifying . The film is most often compared to " Rocky , " more than any other , apparently because they both concern a certain level of boxing . As much as I absolutely adore " Rocky , " " Raging Bull " is a deeper , more realistic film . But whereas " Raging Bull " is raw , " Rocky " is inspiring , and that is one of the reasons I do not think these two very different motion pictures deserve comparison , for the simple fact that they are entirely separate from one another . The only connecting thread is the apparently central theme of boxing , which is used as a theme in " Rocky , " and a backdrop in " Raging Bull . " They're entirely different motion pictures - - one uplifting , the other somewhat depressing - - and the people who try to decide which is better need to seriously re-evaluate their reasons for doing so . They both succeed splendidly well at what they are trying to do , and that's all I have to say about their so-called connection . De Niro , who could justifiably be called the greatest actor of all time , is at the top of his game here . In " Taxi Driver " he displayed a top-notch performance . He wasn't just playing Travis Bickle - - he was Travis Bickle . And here he is Jake LaMotta , the infamous boxer known for his abusive life style and somewhat paranoid delusions during his reign as world middleweight boxing champion , 1949 - 1951 . Throughout the film , he beats his wife ( played expertly and convincingly by the 19-year-old Cathy Moriarty ) , convinced that she is cheating on him , and that is more or less what the film is truly about . The boxing is just what he does for a living , and could be considered as a way to release some of his deeper , harbored anger . LaMotta has a close relationship with Joey , his brother , and their interaction is often what elevates the film above others of its genre . The dialogue is great , close to the perfection of Quentin Tarantino's " Pulp Fiction , " rich in that rapid-fire filthy language and brutal insults . Pesci , who was on the verge of quitting showbiz at the time of pre-production , was spotted by De Niro in a cheap B-movie named " The Death Collector " ( 1975 ) , a . k . a . " Family Business , " a truly horrid film that nevertheless showcased an early sign of things to come for Pesci . De Niro wanted him for the movie and his premonition was either very lucky or very wise - - this is one of the best performances of Pesci's entire career . Scorsese shot the film in muted black and white , portraying a certain era of depression and misery . To make the blood show up on screen during the occasional fight scenes , Scorsese used Hershey's Syrup - - which is an interesting tidbit of trivia for any aspiring film-making planning on filming a violent movie in black and white . But how often does that happen ? This is certainly one of the most intense films Scorsese has directed , and one of the most important of his career . Along with " Taxi Driver , " it is an iconic motion picture that will stand the test of time for years and years to come . Scorsese and De Niro's partnership over the years has resulted in some of the most influential and utterly amazing motion pictures of all time : " Mean Streets , " " Taxi Driver , " " The King of Comedy , " " Goodfellas " and " Casino " come to mind almost instantly . But perhaps the one single title that will be remembered as their most daring effort is " Raging Bull , " a motion picture so utterly exhilarating that it defies description . It is simply a masterpiece for the mind and senses , leaving you knocked out cold after its brutal one-two punch . If I had to assemble a list of required viewing , this would be up there towards the top .
" Misery " is at times humorous , at times amusing , at times scary , and at times truly appalling ; but it is always an excellent thriller .	I particularly enjoy one scene in " Misery , " in which the crazed fan of a successful author switches from kind , gentle woman to crazy lunatic after she reads his latest novel in his line of Misery books , about an inspirational woman from the 1800s . The fan finds out he has killed her favorite fictional character off . " You dirty birdy ! " she yells . Right here lies the strength in " Misery " : its ability to take a good novel and turn it into a great film , by deep characters with waves of emotions and excellent lines of dialogue . Kathy Bates is the crazed fan of James Caan's fluent writer , Paul Sheldon , who has finally ended his Misery series . In the beginning , we see him telling Lauren Bacall that Misery has ruined his life . He has been type-cast , not able to write anything but Misery novels . So he has killed her off in his latest book , and set to work on a new novel , " Untitled " ( which , in the novel Misery - - the REAL novel - - is named " Fast Cars " ) . Paul retreats to a cabin in the middle of nowhere , writes his new novel with a sense of joy , and checks out of the cabin he is staying in . On the way home to the big city , unproduced novel in hand , he crashes off the edge of a ravine and flips his car . This is credited to both the winter storm and his drunkness from a bottle of Dom Periogne . He awakens days later to find himself in the care of Annie Wilkes ( Bates ) . Everything is nice and dandy at first . Annie is a nice enough person . She tells him the roads are closed and the telephone lines are down , but she will take him to town when they clear up . She says she has called Paul's agent and has told his agent where he is . But soon Paul realizes he is trapped in the house with a madwoman . She is nice one second , a lunatic the next . And the best thing about this is how well Kathy Bates carries the character . I read the novel " Misery " by Stephen King . It is the only book of his I have read that I have enjoyed . ( I hate his other work . ) And something tells me that King thought of this idea of a writer trapped with a crazy fan because he himself is an author , most likely adorned with letters signed by mad fans every day . But would his fans be crazy enough to kidnap King , abuse him when he's bad , and make him suffer endlessly ? The fan , thinking , in the fan's deranged mind , that they are serving God ? So King wrote about this idea , and Rob Reiner turned it into a film a coupl'a years later . I personally enjoy the film a bit more than the novel . In the book , I imagined Kathy Bates the whole time as Annie Wilkes . Only I didn't imagine Kathy Bates herself , but rather the woman Kathy Bates plays . You see , Kathy Bates doesn't play Kathy Bates here . Kathy Bates plays Annie Wilkes . She steals the show . She completely evelops her character . She easily switches her moods as if there is an on and off switch . I cannot imagine anyone for the role of Annie other than Kathy Bates herself . " Misery " is at times humorous , at times amusing , at times scary , and at times truly appalling ; but it is always an excellent thriller . Reiner spotted the potential in the book in 1989 , and he immediately went to work on the film for a 1990 release . In fact , I can imagine Rob Reiner scrolling through King's novel , fascinated by every page , wanting to turn it into a blockbuster film with big stars and big thrills . And then I can imagine Rob Reiner at the premiere of " Misery . " I can see the credits rolling . And I can see him smiling . stars - John Ulmer
One of the best films of 2008	Enough has been written already about Mickey Rourke's real-life parallels with his fictional character in The Wrestler . Yes , it makes the story seem even realer , and is perhaps what attracted Rourke to the project . ( Or perhaps not ? perhaps , instead , it is what attracted Darren Aronofsky to the actor . ) But to focus on such surface similarities seems like an undermining of his work here . Rourke may not be as out-of-his-comfort-zone as Sean Penn in Milk , the only other Oscar-worthy lead performance this year , but that is merely a testament to his fundamental understanding of his character : Randy is an understated guy with big scars , both literally and figuratively . He's been wrestling for years ? now reduced to borderline tribute shows in front of dwindling crowds , scrounging up barely enough cash to buy the variety of drugs and steroids he needs to maintain his weight . He lives in a trailer park and gets locked out for not being able to keep up rent . He works part-time at a grocery store and visits strip clubs regularly , because it's the only place where he seemingly has any meaningful connections with another human being ? namely the dancer Cassidy ( played by Marisa Tomei ) , who is similarly a bit older than most peers in her " profession , " yet doesn't really know any other way to live . The Wrestler draws immediate comparison to the classics of working class cinema , including Rocky and On the Waterfront . Sylvester Stallone returned to his iconic character two years to bring resolution to the life of Rocky Balboa , the Philly boxer who got back in the ring for one final match . It was a good film and touched on similar themes ? a nice guy stuck in a mean world , an estranged child ? and ultimately both films present us with the dilemma these men find themselves in : too old to continue doing what they know best , and too old to learn how to do anything else . Whereas Rocky Balboa was a trip down memory lane , it was hardly as bleak or frank as The Wrestler , which is a vastly superior film . Darren Aronofsky has established himself with this picture as one of the most important of modern American filmmakers ; to acknowledge that this work is from the same man who directed The Fountain is astonishing , because they couldn't be farther apart on a sylistic level . The Wrestler is grainy , low-key and rough . It isn't polished , fantastical or elaborate . And that suits the material perfectly . The fact that Aronofsky was willing to almost entirely reinvent his approach for the benefit of the story is more than admirable . He deserves a nomination . Tomei is wonderful in her supporting role , fleshing out her character ( again , both literally and figuratively ) with greater competence than most actresses would probably be able to manage , because it's a fairly obvious role ? the " stripper with a heart of gold " who is the object of desire for the gruff guy with a tortured soul . Yet she manages to strike a balance in the film as one of two female roles , the other belonging to Evan Rachel Wood as Randy's emotionally severed daughter . The Wrestler is impressive for all its smaller parts as well as the larger ones . When Randy goes to visit his daughter , the reaction is fleeting ; it's not overly dramatic and revelatory , like most films of this nature often create such scenes to be . We can tell by her reaction that it's not the first time Randy has attempted to reconcile with her , as she seems unfazed by his appearance on her doorstep . It is in this fashion that the film jumps through all the mandatory hoops of its genre ( think , of all things , The Royal Tenenbaums ) , yet still manages to seem fresh and realistic . And then there's Rourke . As aforementioned , he deserves the Oscar nom he's likely to receive . And he should probably win . This is one of the best performances of the decade , perhaps even of all time , if we really want to get down to it . It's the best work of his career , at once the most fully developed of his characters and the most imperfect . Randy isn't airbrushed to make him seem more appealing to the audience ; Aronofsky and Rourke exploit his faults and present him as a normal man , tempted by vices and haunted by his past . Yet we recognize that the drugs , the empty sex and the generally self-destructive behavior Randy partakes in is rooted in the same emotional enguish that the actor himself seems to carry with him ; Aronofsky spotted this quality in Rourke , and he fought the producers for Rourke over their first choice ( Nicolas Cage ) , and his dedication paid off ? you'll be hard-pressed to find a more convincing , moving or memorable lead performance this year . Ultimately , The Wrestler is one of the year's very best films ? a character study that is at once timeless and powerful . And it's helmed by a director who has managed to bounce back from an aesthetically pleasing but shallow art-house film to produce one of the great works of American cinema in the 21st century .
You won't be developing your photos again !	" One Hour Photo " is exactly what I expected . A very well made , entertaining chiller-thriller that is memorable and notable , but not altogether one of the best thrillers ever . It's one of those that people will be talking about for about a year , but will then vanish , much like the other thrillers about psychopathic psychos . Robin Williams is the psycho in this film , named Sy Parrish , a . k . a . Sy the Photo Guy , as he is called by the son of a family he develops photos for at SavMart , which the director described as a kind of " Target meets K-Mart . " Though the obvious similarity is Wal-Mart . Sy takes his job at SavMart personally - - very personally . He's the one hour photo technician . And , as he narrates to us in the beginning , most people do not realize that photo developers actually look at the pictures you have taken when they develop them . What if one of these onlookers was a complete oddball ? Weirdo ? Psycho ? What if ? Let's say the guy makes an extra copy of your photos , just for him to take home and study . Soon that guy starts to think he is actually part of your family . That's when things really start to go haywire . He comes into your life , doing bizarre things . This technique has been used before , but what makes " One Hour Photo " so much better is its main character , Sy . He has feelings , emotions , and thoughts . Most slasher-flicks are about little crazy guys that we can't relate to , but you feel for Sy , and , as he does a few things , you start to believe what he is doing - - though odd - - is kind of good . Robin Williams is getting critical acclaim for giving a " terrifying performance . " For a moment , I'm going to pretend I know what that means . To me , Williams does not give a terrifying performance . He gives an excellent , scary , but deep performance ; as I mentioned above , he's more than some shallow slasher with a knife going after everyone . He has emotions , feelings , thoughts , and we can see them on the surface . I thoroughly enjoyed " One Hour Photo . " The directing is classic , the acting talent is superb , and I guess I'm probably the only one who thought Williams ' character is actually kind of the good guy . He reminds me of Michael Douglas in " Falling Down " : His bubble has burst , and he's serving up his own justice . What Williams ' character , Sy , does at the end of the film , is actually kind of justified . And that's what makes this movie so different from all the other " psychological thrillers " out there . stars - John Ulmer
Fun for any fan of the show . Lots of fun , actually . . .	This 25th reunion of SNL is extremely hilarious . Sometimes it's a bit slow and there are bits where there isn't actual comedy , but it's still fun . After growing up on this show and seeing this big reunion I feel like I'm a part of the cast . Almost everyone is here , except for Eddie Murphy . ( Norm MacDonald drops in for a funny joke about that . ) EVERYONE is here . Steve Martin , Dan Aykroyd , Chevy Chase , Martin Short , et al , AND celebrities like Tom Hanks , Susan Sarandon , Danny DeVito , Drew Barrymore , Garey Busey , et al . I also liked the tributes to Belushi , Radner , Hartman ( Lovitz starts to cry ! ) and even Farley . All in all this is a solid SNL show with some surprising cameos . It's sort of interesting to see all these different talents from the show joining together , interacting and referencing each other . I enjoyed it immensely ! Now , if only they'd make a theatrical film with everyone who's ever been on the show ( still alive , of course ) doing skits together . stars . - John Ulmer
An offer you can't refuse !	Everyone knows the " Godfather " movies . If you don't by now , you probably don't belong on this site . ( Just kidding . . . everyone is welcome ! ) In 1992 , Francis Ford Coppola assembled together the entire footage from all three of his " Godfather " movies and spliced them back together again in chronological order . . . along with about 30 minutes of deleted scenes , making the outcome clock in at about 530 minutes altogether ( astounding ! ) . The movie compilation was released on VHS and played on TV as part of a mini-series type deal , but I never got around to seeing it back then . Watching it now it really adds a new aspect to the familiar story and truly compliments the original films - it doesn't seem like an unnecessary cash-in . Part of what I enjoy about the first sequel is its non-chronological passage of events . . . flashbacks to Don Vito's days really contrasted Michael's conflicts in a superb way . . . but I don't really have any beefs with Coppola changing that for the sake of a new and unique narrative . It makes it more interesting for this particular project . It starts off with scenes from " The Godfather Part II " - a young Vito Corleone emigrates from Corleone , Sicily ( and no , the film wasn't actually shot there . . . I went to the real town of Corleone and it's nothing like in the film ) to Ellis Island at the turn of the century . Once there he eventually opens his own business , gets a wife and births children - including Michael , his beloved son . Vito becomes a Mafia Don and after many years Robert De Niro transforms into Marlon Brando , whose son Michael ( now played not by a baby , but rather a baby-faced Al Pacino ) is reluctant to join the " business . " He's in the military and all is going well with him and his girlfriend ( Diane Keaton ) but then an assassination attempt leaves his older brother dead and his father in intensive care . In order to defend his family he must kill a corrupt cop and Mafia kingpin . He does this and then flees to Sicily ( and , if you've read the book " The Sicilian " by Mario Puzo , you'll be aware of what fate awaits him there ) . This stuff goes on forever and I could give a detailed plot description but I'd be ruining whatever you might not have seen . Overall there's nothing I can really say about this other than that it's an interesting spin on the movies . If you want my opinion on the other films you'll have to search my archive here on IMDb , they'll all available if you care so much as to read them ( which I highly doubt ) . Suffice to say Coppola's remix of his movies is a refreshing twist on the saga . . . I enjoyed it and although it's something of a monster to sit through ( I recommend an hour or two per night , which I don't ever usually like to do with other films ) , you'll find the time passes by pretty quick at times .
Live from New York !	Incidentally ( or coincidentally ) the very first episode of " Saturday Night Live " debuted on October 11th , which is the same day of the month as my own birthday . I've always felt it was appropriate that my favorite show shares its birthday with me ! Of course , in recent years it hasn't been my favorite show as much . . . with guest hosts like Paris Hilton and a cast of untalented dimwits like Tina Fey , it's a real shame the show has fallen as far as it has . I remember that skit David Spade did once about Eddie Murphy : " Look children ! It's a falling star ! " Well , the tables have turned . This first episode is classic , though , and although it's very different from the way the show became in later years , it's very fun . Unfortunately " SNL " hasn't been released in season box sets on DVD yet ( fingers crossed for HD-DVD or Blu-Ray releases ) , but if you can track down this first episode from 1975 you'll be in for a treat ( it airs on E ! sometimes ) .
One of the best shows ever !	Just the fact that a show like the SIMPSONS has been on so long - almost 14 years-proves that it is a great comedy achievment . Who would've honostly thought such a show would be embraced by millions . I know a lot of shows like the SIMPSONS that are canceled , just because they aren't given a chance-especially on FOX . The characters are wonderfl , and the whole cast is voiced by a few people , disguising their voice ( Dan Castenella does tons of voices , his most famous HOMER SIMPSON ) . For example , did you know Bart is voiced by a female ? That I find is funny , because he really does act and sound like a little bratty but loveable character . So turn on the tv and get ready , set , D'OH ! starsJOHN ULMER - - - - D'OH !
Terrific continuation of the " Godfather " series ; to call it a " sequel " almost seems insulting . . .	This sequel is just as terrific as the first film , if not more so . I hesitate to call it a sequel , as " sequel " is quite simply the wrong word I am looking for . A film like " The Matrix Reloaded " is a sequel - " The Godfather Part II " is something more . It's just too good to be called a sequel . The film won six Oscars in 1974 , including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor ( Robert De Niro ) . It deserved every one . It involves the viewer from the start and never lets up . Particular aspects I enjoy in this film are the flashbacks to Don Vito Corleone as a child immigrating to New York City after social problems in his homeland , Sicily . I like the intertwining of Michael Corleone ( Al Pacino ) , his son , in present day , dealing with his crime inheritance , and Vito ( Robert De Niro ) , his father , years ago . I like how , as Michael comes to terms with his family legacy , the film shows us Vito coming to terms with his future . The day he shoots that man in a gritty apartment complex is a turning point in his life . Every actor is in top form here . Al Pacino has gradually made the move from a man who denies his future to a man who is accepting it . His character is the spotlight of this film , much more so than in the first film ( though both center around his decisions ) . Robert De Niro is particularly wonderful and convincing as a young Vito Corleone , who was of course played by the constantly-spoofed Marlon Brando in the original . De Niro takes an iron grip on his character and completely engulfs himself ; this was , in 1974 , the sign of an actor who would go places . Indeed , he did . Coppola's magical sense of direction is at work here , as is the script by Coppola and Mario Puzo ( whose novels the series is based upon ) . The original was a wonderful film , but the sequel presents more of a challenge . Flashbacks are often intercut in the middle of other films are awkward times , but in " The Godfather Part II , " Coppola uses them at precisely the right moments , managing to careen in and out of scenes and time periods with free abandon . It takes a great kind of skill to master something like this , much less a sequel to one of the most beloved films of all time . " The Godfather " was an instant classic upon its release in 1972 . Coppola had two years to plan for his continuation of the film . People told him it wouldn't work , he would never beat the original , and he would never pull it off . But he showed them all . " The Godfather Part II " may well be the best sequel I have ever seen in my entire lifetime . I wish they were all this good . To call it a " sequel " almost seems insulting .
My favorite episode	Season Four was when " South Park " really began to come into its own , and by the time Season Five rolled around it was stronger than ever . " Scott Tenorman Must Die " is probably my favorite episode of " South Park . " It's absolutely brilliant . This is the episode where Cartman's evil , psychopathic mindset really comes into play . The ending is a true shocker - I never saw it coming and it's completely unyielding . It really goes all the way . It's some of the sickest stuff I've seen on TV but it's absolutely hysterical . " Let me taste your unfathomable tears of sadness - oh , yes , mm , they're so good ! " is probably the best Cartman quote ever . Wonderful . Just wonderful .
A brilliantly ambitious , sprawling , and truly epic film	Few films create such a lasting impact as " Amadeus . " Although it may not be as well-recognized as some other classics , those " in the know " have been privy to one of the great films of the 20th century . Its Director's Cut re-release a few years ago re-established it as a classic , and enticed many new viewers . Personally , having been subjected to this film years ago , watching the Director's Cut is a delight , because it seems to flow even better now , even with an extra twenty minutes of runtime . The film begins with the composer Antonio Salieri ( F . Murray Abraham ) telling his story ( and Mozart's ) to a priest ( Simon Callow ) . Antonio feels personally responsible for Mozart's early death , and finally - after years of silence - spills his beans . The flashbacks ( intercut with scenes of Salieri reciting the story from memory ) show us the infantile and juvenile Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart ( played by " Animal House's " Tom Hulce ) and his domination of musical composure in Vienna , where he was the subject of jealousy from Salieri , whose lifelong dream was to be half as great as Mozart . The performances are wonderful - Hulce perfectly embodies the Mozart many of us weren't aware existed - the troubled , disrespectful and hyper-active man-child . Today , historians claim Mozart probably suffered from attention disorders like ADD . Whatever the reason for his behavior , Hulce never lets up on the believability . Even more impressive is F . Murray Abraham as Salieri . It is really he who carries the film on his shoulders and is the vital link to Mozart . I personally think it was a brilliant decision by Peter Shaffer ( playwrite and scriptwriter ) to convey the story through the eyes of another man close to Mozart , rather than Mozart himself . It's far more effective than a simple narrative , which would have detracted from the effortless intrigue of this movie . ( Once you start watching , you're hooked - even though it's three hours long on the Director's Cut , it's over in what feels like less than half that long . ) Milos Forman has been responsible for some wonderful films throughout his career ( other highlights include " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " and " The People vs . Larry Flynt " ) but in my opinion , from a directorial standpoint , this is probably his strongest . " Cuckoos ' Nest " may have had deeper themes and drawn greater parallels between characters and events and symbolism , but " Amadeus " doesn't need to be complicated , and it isn't . At heart it is the story of a brilliant composer and the man whose jealousy destroyed them both . This should be seen by everyone at least once - because once you see it , you'll come back for seconds .
A great supernatural thriller , undeservedly bashed over the years	" The Omen " was included in a recent book I read of THE 1000 MOVIES YOU MUST SEE BEFORE YOU DIE ! - ironic since fellow IMDb user Theo Robertson claims it was included as an entry in a similar book titled THE 50 WORST FILMS OF ALL TIME . I've always really liked " The Omen " and , like Theo , think it is superior to " The Exorcist . " It's more chilling and freaky and subtle . There isn't any fake pea soup here , either . Which isn't to say that " The Exorcist " isn't any good - but it hasn't fared as well over the years . " The Omen " is just really good . It was released the same year as Exorcist if I'm not mistaken and Gregory Peck gives a fine performance . The part where a character's head is lopped off and rolls across a street in slow-motion , and then director Richard Donner cuts to a whole new sequence , is really chilling and bizarre . It's that sort of eerie unexplained stuff that makes this , in my opinion , superior to a lot of the other stuff out there - i . e . many other trashy supernatural flicks that don't hold anything against this .
My objective review	Usually when " Grand Theft Auto " comes out , it takes a good week or two for the initial " WOW ! " factor to wear off . I purposely put off reviewing this until I had completed the entire game , because by then I knew I'd have some time to take it all in and form a more objective opinion . First of all , early criticisms included accusations that the game was " too short . " Yes , perhaps - if you rush through it over the course of a caffeine-enhanced weekend . For those of us with modest social lives and jobs who can't devote 12 hours a day to a video game , it'll take a while . I played about 35 hours before beating the " basic " single player missions - and I say " basic " because there's a lot more to do in the game once you've completed the main structure . I can still get in a cop car and chase down criminals if I want to , or perform assassinations , or find all the stunt jumps , or street race cars . It's quite limitless . But anyway , like I said - it took about 35 hours to beat the main structure of gameplay , which translated into a solid two weeks . It may be a tad bit shorter than " Grand Theft Auto : San Andreas " but I had so much fun I wasn't counting . The pros of the game are : better graphics , more realistic graphics engine and physics , better on-foot fighting / gunplay controls , more attention paid to the storyline and characters , and an overall more expansive universe . The downsides are : even though the controls for fighting are better , they still need drastic improvement ; the whole " duck / dodge " thing is quite lame and doesn't work half the time . If you lock onto someone and try to lock onto somebody else instead , it doesn't work correctly - or fast enough . Sometimes during missions I'd try to lock onto the villain and end up locking onto a pedestrian further away . The " free aim " pressure sensitivity is also confusing . I do think there's a bit of contrivance towards the end of the game as well . I won't put any spoilers in , but suffice to say you're playing a fairly ruthless thug who has a heart compared to past GTA characters but nonetheless has no qualms with kidnapping a girl and referring to her in derogatory terms , or killing countless people , but is then expected to show more depth towards the end for a female character that is underdeveloped to begin with . I can understand what they were TRYING to do and I admire that , but they should have expanded the relationship between Nico and Kate before attempting to pull that off . Nico ends up coming across as something of a self-absorbed person at the end , because you have to wonder if the motivation for revenge is really because he cared about this other person or whether it's just because he wants to prove to himself that he has room to care about someone . Really , though , that's the only fault . The overall mechanics of the plot and the expansiveness of it all is cinematic and deeper than any other GTA game . The physics are far better than previous games which has caused some people to complain because they can't flip their cars a hundred times and keep driving , but I liked it . Liberty City is totally revamped and looks and feels like a real , living city - it's amazing . The attention to detail is quite impressive - non-characters walking down the street just start smoking cigarettes or drinking coffee . Sometimes as you pass by someone too fast they'll drop their bag of groceries or stumble over . I can't wait to see what a GTA game will look like in ten years ' time . Too much has already been said about this game for me to add anything new or insightful , really , but I will end this by saying I disagree that it's " by far " the best game of the series . I love it about as much as I loved " Vice City , " which was probably my favourite . It's hard to compare them because each has their strengths . I didn't like San Andreas quite as much as Vice City but even " San Andreas " had the benefit of planes and skydiving and bicycles which have been removed from GTA IV . But basically I think this fits in well with the others ; it has enough advancements to be truly " fresh " while still providing the same dark humour and basic gameplay attributes of previous games . It's a solid addition to an already excellent franchise and just a lot of fun .
See " Saw "	Mild SpoilersTwo men wake up in a filthy bathroom . They don't know how they got there . They don't know why they're there . They can't remember much of anything . They try to move , but realize that their ankles are chained to metal pipes . Someone else lies dead in the middle of the room , a handgun still clenched in his pale left hand . In his right hand is a tape recorder . The two men check their pockets . They each have a tape , their names ? Adam and Dr . Gordon ? scribbled on the outside . They grab the tape recorder and play their messages . A muffled voice tells them the rules of the game : They have mere hours to find a way out of the room by unscrambling a sequence of clues . If they run out of time , they'll look like the third man lying near them . If they win , they go free . This is the setup for James Wan's disturbing killer-thriller ' Saw ' ? a movie that will frighten , shock , and disturb you all at once . I liked the plot ? I liked how deliberate the movie was , how forced its opening was , drawing us into its world immediately . There is no build-up . There is no character development prior to the credits . It starts , and it never stops . There is not a single boring scene in this movie , and not a single moment where I felt as if they had run out of ideas and resorted to flashbacks as a convenience . The movie does have a large number of flashbacks - - however , they are used as a narrative tool and not a cheap way of re-capping events ? some movies use flashbacks because there isn't enough plot to spread across for an entire runtime , but ' Saw ' never gave me that same cheated feeling . I always felt the flashbacks were a way of making the story even better , and more compelling . The movie is a mix of many genres ? it has the appearance of a serial killer film but its plot unravels in a fashion similar to that of a constrained buddy movie , its flashbacks are disturbingly simple ( like that of a normal drama with a dark edge ) and the twists remind one of something complex such as ' Memento , ' ' The Usual Suspects ' or ' The Sixth Sense . ' Then there's also the cop genre thrown into the mix , as we see scenes in which a frustrated police force tries to solve the numerous murders . The two lead actors are Cary Elwes and Leigh Whannell ( who also wrote the screenplay ) . They spend a vast amount of time sitting inside a dirty bathroom talking about how they're going to get out of the nasty situation . Elwes is the doctor Gordon , a surgeon who suspects that ' Jigsaw ' ? an infamous unnamed sadistic serial killer ? is responsible for the events . Jigsaw has left a flood of bodies in his wake ? all of who technically killed themselves by trying to escape their surroundings ( in one of the more technically-fascinating scenes a man wakes up enclosed by barbed wire , and must claw his way through it in order to escape ) . Five months prior , the police held Gordon under suspicion after one of his tools was left at the scene of a crime . Even though Gordon had a solid alibi , one of the officers ( played by Danny Glover ) always suspected that the doctor was responsible and never gave up the pursuit . The movie's only flaws are probably the dialogue and hammy performances ? Cary Elwes has always been good at what he does , but here he seems to be trying to channel the talents of a greater actor ? and totally fails . His American accent is laughably bad and uneven ? his performance towards the end of the movie is similarly disappointing . Audience members began to laugh at one point , which is never a good sign . I can't help but think his performance actually softens the impact of what should be the most vital scene of the movie ? its finale . That's not to say the movie is bad by any means . The way ' Saw ' manages to disturb is in a very simple way . What's ironic is that unlike many other psychological thrillers , it is quite exploitative ? it does show us quite a bit of gore . But it's not a boogeyman movie - - it relies on psychological shock tactics rather than the now-common cheap shock tactics , where someone jumps out of the shadows and kills the victim and we're supposed to be scared . Like other low-budget shockers , I'm almost positive that ' Saw ' will travel by word-of-mouth ? it has already gained a slow but steady audience in the United Kingdom and its intake will surely increase in the States . It premiered at Sundance and garnered some great reviews and critical accolade - - inevitably the resulting hype is a bit strong for such a modest movie ( every commercial ad features at least one reference to ' Se7en ' ) but I purposely avoided reading anything about the movie , and now ? in retrospect ? I'm very glad I did . If my assumptions are correct ' Saw ' will become another cult classic thriller and its popularity will gradually increase . Suffice it to say without giving away too much : if you are tired of all the clichéd teen-slasher-flicks being released through Hollywood on a regular basis , ' Saw ' is a great delight ? it may not be a masterpiece , and it may not always be as solid as it seems to think it is , but it shocked , disturbed and entertained me . If you're looking for a likable Saturday night matinée and / or you're a queasy viewer , forget it . But if you're a daring viewer with an empty stomach then ' Saw ' is a guaranteed delight . Highly recommended , and worth seeing more than once , especially if you're a fan of the genre .
A classic that still holds up to this very day	" I know I'm human . And if you were all these things , then you'd just attack me right now , so some of you are still human . This thing doesn't want to show itself , it wants to hide inside an imitation . It'll fight if it has to , but it's vulnerable out in the open . If it takes us over , then it has no more enemies , nobody left to kill it . And then it's won . " John Carpenter's " The Thing " is one of the most entertaining horror films ever made ? fast , clever and purely exciting from start to finish . This is how all movies of the genre should be made . Taking place in the Antarctic in 1982 , the movie focuses specifically on a group of American scientists . We are given no introduction to their mission , but are thrust into their existence when a pair of seemingly crazy Norwegians appears at their base camp , chasing an escaped dog . The Norwegians are killed , and the dog finds its way into the colony , which is when things really start to get crazy . It is soon made quite clear that the " dog " is actually a shape-shifting alien organism , which manifests itself upon the physical form of its victims ? in other words , it begins to eat the Americans , and imitate them so well that the remaining humans cannot discern the difference between their friends and enemiesThe pack of scientists , led by MacReady ( Kurt Russell ) , begin to fight for their own survival , using wits instead of brawn . If the Thing is indeed amongst them , then how are they to go about revealing it ? How many Things are there ? How can the Thing be killed ? ( Or can it be destroyed at all ? ) The creature's origins in the film are explained easily : Thirty thousand years ago a spacecraft plummeted to Earth , and was frozen in the Antarctic ice . The Thing tried to escape , and was discovered in the ice by the Norwegians , who unknowingly released it from its natural prison . " The Thing , " the movie itself , is similar to Ridley Scott's iconic " Alien " ( 1979 ) . Many comparisons have been made ? the protagonists are stranded in a desolate area , stalked by a seldom seen foe that manages to kill them off one-by-one . However , " The Thing " ? for all practical purposes ? came first . Based on the famous short story " Who Goes There ? " by John W . Campbell , Jr . ( writing under pseudonym as Don A . Stuart ) , the film was originally adapted as a feature production in 1951 by Howard Hawks and Christian Nyby . The result was " The Thing From Another World , " an unarguable classic . But to be fair , it bore little resemblance to the short story , and Carpenter's remake does it more justice . The idea of the Thing being able to adapt the physicality of anyone is what essentially makes this movie so great , and is the most vital link to the short story . In 1951 the special effects were simply too poor to reasonably portray the shape-shifting organism , but thirty-one years brought many advances in SFX . Creature effects artist Rob Bottin does an excellent job of turning what could have easily become a cheesy gore-fest into a startlingly frightening ( and realistic ) mess of blood and fear . The Thing , although never actually taking one specific form , is constantly seen in a morphing stage , and the effects are simply superb . They still pack a punch twenty-two years later . Ennio Morricone's score ( nominated for a Razzie Award at the time ) is a bit too electronic and tinny , but nevertheless haunting when used correctly . From the fact that its cast consists entirely of males , to the fact that its ending is one of the most thought-provoking and untypical conclusions of all time , " The Thing " ? by any standards ? is unconventional Hollywood at its best . It comes as no surprise that , at the time of its release , " The Thing " performed poorly in theaters , and " E . T . " ? released the same year and featuring a much kinder alien ? became the higher-grossing picture of the two ( by far ) . In the long run , however , " The Thing " is superior in almost every conceivable way . Spielberg's tale is outdated and flopped during its 20th Anniversary Re-Release . " The Thing , " on the other hand , has gradually climbed a ladder of cult classics ? it is one of the most famous non-famous movies ever made . Carpenter is notorious for having a very uneven career ? from his amazing " Assault on Precinct 13 " ( 1976 ) to the magnificent " Halloween " ( 1978 ) to the disappointing and silly " Escape from L . A . " ( 1996 ) , " The Thing " remains his very best motion picture . Although its reputation over the years has never been honorary enough to land it a spot on most " great movies " lists , " The Thing " is still one of my favorite horror films , and ? upon close inspection ? masterfully crafted . It is a daring and ingenious thrill-ride that is simultaneously unique and chilling ? a genuine relief for film buffs who are tired of the same old horror knock-offs . This one , at the very least , is genuinely unpredictable .
An American Classic !	The Maltese Falcoln is an American classic . Humphrey Bogart shines in this quintessential thriller . It's surrounded with mystery , suspense , and best of all great conematography and acting . So if you want a great film , get the MALTESE FALCOLN ! stars-JOHN ULMER
Great live performances of great songs	This brief collection of videos was recorded live in Tokyo , 1992 , as part of Guns N ' Roses ' worldwide Use Your Illusion tour . This volume ( part " II " ) provides some songs from GN'Rs ' # 1 billboard hit , including " Estranged , " " You Could Be Mine , " " So Fine , " and " Knockin ' On Heaven's Door . " It also includes older hits such as " Sweet Child O ' Mine , " " Rocket Queen , " " Move to the City , " and of course , " Paradise City . " The performance highlights also include a live rendition of the " Godfather " theme and a guitar / drum solo . Axl Rose was a truly great frontman . One problem he did have was all the damned running around on stage . The " UYI I " video is even worse , but here he's still running about constantly , and it just makes his singing less effective . He quickly runs out of breath . It's one of the reasons I felt the intense criticism from fans regarding the 2002 VMA performance was moot - his live voice has never been a good indication of his studio vocals . Sometimes he delivers great live performances , but a lot of times - such as here - his energetics make him lose steam too fast . His voice is still awesome , but it's not as awesome as it could be if he just cut out the lame running back and forth from one end of the stage to the other . Anyway , apart from Axl's somewhat shady vocals , for the most part this is excellent . Slash looks a bit drugged out and he's not into the guitar stuff as he could be - he's Axl's opposite , he just stands there and plays the notes . He could use a bit of energy injection . The DVD is nice but isn't really that big a deal - in fact they could have easily combined both volumes of the Tokyo performance onto one DVD .
THE Guns N ' Roses show	Guns N ' Roses were always a bit " iffy " live . I've noticed that Axl's voice is very unreliable during shows and he can tend to go out of key and just start screeching , whereas on the actual albums it tends to be harmonic screeching . ( He's always a great singer , but during live concerts he can just tend to get a bit rusty and tired . ) However the famous Live at the Ritz performance in 1988 really solidified Gn'R as a great band and one that would stand the test of time . To this day their albums still sell a large amount on a weekly basis ( I heard Appetite for Destruction sells over 20 , 000 a week worldwide ? For an 18 year old album that's pretty good ! ) and entices new fans ( their Greatest Hits collection was a huge success in the UK and did almost as well in America ) . This is overall a really great show packed full of Appetite's material , and bootleg copies are available that have even more footage .
" . . . And what for ? "	Estranged is one of the most beautiful rock epics ever recorded and sadly it has never really gained the reputation of , say , November Rain or Sweet Child O ' Mine . The music video is a bit MTV / early-'90s-ish compared to earlier ones but the song itself is awesome . This making-of details the behind-the-scenes of the production of the music video . Ironically its full title names it the " fourth in a trilogy " which makes absolutely no sense - - there were three videos in the trilogy , " Don't Cry , " " November Rain " and " Estranged " - - they skipped one just for confusion ! This is a good making-of about a brilliant song that never really gained the reputation it should have . I'd classify this as one of my top ten favorite songs of all time and this video is a must-see for anyone who cherishes it .
De Niro should direct again - - this is a very well made movie .	Robert De Niro's " A Bronx Tale " is the story of a hard-working Italian-American man whose teenaged son takes an ill-advised interest in the neighborly Mafia figures . De Niro plays Lorenzo , a bus driver from the Bronx who works hard for a living and is perfectly content with his low amount of income , if only because it is clean . When he is offered a small Mafia job , he turns it down . The local Mafia kingpin is Sonny ( Chazz Palminteri ) . " As I grew in age , he grew in power , " says young Calogero , a . k . a . C , a . k . a . Lorenzo's son . In the beginning of the film , nine-year-old C witnesses a murder at the hands of Sonny , but doesn't rat on the man . Soon he is taken under the wing of the gangster , being thrust into the middle of gambling rackets and running errands of sorts . Lorenzo despises the Mafia and pleads with Sonny to leave his son alone . " They didn't speak ever again , " says C , now seventeen years old ( played by Lillo Brancato ) and narrating the story . In a way , C suddenly has two fathers - - Lorenzo , who gives him good advice ; and Sonny , whose advice is often times witty but not always the right thing . C is a confused kid , unsure of what to do with his life , hanging out with the wrong crowds . De Niro's performance as Lorenzo is the most touching in the film , because it is so true , and he displays the same caring side of all parents who want to give their kids good advice . One of the movie's only flaws is the stereotypical love interest subplot , this time between C and a sixteen-year-old black girl who goes to his school . C is the only kid on his block who doesn't want to take part in racist beatings and he is apparently the only one , at the time , who isn't bothered with the blacks ' presence on the street . What is so disappointing about this rather unnecessary addition to the plot is that it feels tacky , one of the only unrealistic moments in an otherwise grandiose motion picture . C steps over the boundaries of being a respectable character , brought up by a very wise father , to a downright stereotypical Good Guy , who appreciates the minority figures and is the lone voice in a large crowd of haters . I'm not saying that C shouldn't fall in love with a black girl , but the entire subplot is entirely out of place , unnecessary , unbelievable ( there is absolutely no chemistry between the two actors ) and , to be blunt , silly . Silly , and a major error on De Niro's part , because it tries to manipulate its audience and turn C into an unrealistic , open-minded guy - - the sort of character who would have never existed back then , especially under the influence he grew up in . Oh well . The movie is still brilliant , almost perfect , aside from that superfluous subplot . The film was written by Palminteri , based on his own one-man play from 1989 . As Sonny , Palminteri proves that he can exhibit the same sort of oozing confidence that De Niro displayed as Jimmy in Martin Scorsese's " Goodfellas , " the best mob movie ever made , which bears a few resemblances to " A Bronx Tale . " De Niro claims that in order to separate his film from others that have already dealt with the same sort of backdrop , he studied his own movies - - particularly those directed by Scorsese - - and tried to stray away from many techniques and ideas used in those movies . What De Niro delivers is an occasionally funny , occasionally painful , coming-of-age drama with guts . De Niro is right : these sorts of films have been made before , but in his directorial debut , De Niro proves that he isn't just one of the greatest actors of all time , but a gifted director with a stunning vision . De Niro's love and respect for New York City shines through in " A Bronx Tale , " just about as much as his very obvious attention to detail and characters . This is one of the best Mafia movies ever made , even if it's towards the bottom of the list . stars .
One of Kurosawa's best .	The film opens with Toshirô Mifune navigating through a corn field . Slowly he is revealed to us and even his walk seems very self-confident and tough . Text on-screen informs us he is a Japanese ronin - now without a master due to Japanese civil war , he has turned into a bounty hunter and roams the countryside . Soon he wanders into a town and gets a job as a bodyguard . And then he hatches a brilliant idea to play two towns against each other for his own advantage . " Yojimbo " is one of Akira Kurosawa's most popular films to arrive in the States , and only a couple years after its release ( which was extremely successful in Japan ) " spaghetti western " director Sergio Leone remade the film ( without credit to Kurosawa ) as " For a Few Dollars More , " the second film in the well-regarded " Dollars " trilogy . Both films are very good ( you can find my review on " Dollars " on IMDb also ) but " Yojimbo " has its own superior traits . His direction is superb ( but then again so is Leone's ) - some of the shots in " Yojimbo " are so carefully structured it's hard to imagine even the most minute elements were incidental ; everything seems planned . Toshirô Mifune is perfect as the antihero of the movie who we root for despite being a somewhat shady and ignorant character . If you liked " For a Few Dollars More , " do yourself a favor and check out the original version - you may like it better .
The affirmation of life through the exploration of death . A powerful film .	" Ikiru " is a film that expresses itself through two separate parts . The first half is the exploration of a bitter man's death and the second half is an affirmation of life provided through the awareness of mortality , recalled by those whom he knew best . Kanji Watanabe ( Takashi Shimura ) is the protagonist of the story , a bureaucrat whose job provides him with little more than paper-shuffling and pen-pushing . The movie opens with an x-ray of Watanabe's stomach and the cancer that thrives within it . His doctor tells him he will die soon . Throughout the first half of the film , Watanabe stumbles about helplessly , remembering his life and trying to figure out what has come of it . He lives with his son , whose resentment for his own father has peaked over the years . Watanabe realizes no one in his life actually knows or loves him . He walks about in a permanent stupor of self-loathing . He embarks on a friendship with a younger female co-worker , but even she soon hates him and thinks he is " creepy . " Towards the end of the film , Watanabe finally dies and the second half is the recounting of his final days by co-workers . We realize Watanabe's life changed drastically towards the end and he dedicated his final days to the construction of a playground for children . The Criterion DVD is excellent , and inside is an essay written by a Kurosawa biographer . He notes that the film is a study of existentialism and mirrors a few themes from Orson Welles ' " Citizen Kane , " which is true - I was very much reminded of Welles ' film at certain moments throughout " Ikiru . " Both films offer solid examinations of life and death and what propels the man stuck in between - in both cases the cruelties of life broke apart the men , leaving hollow shells where souls once existed . In Watanabe's case , his seeking of his own soul finally brings him to a state of contentment and inner satisfaction - his death is , at the beginning of the film , a lingering doom ; and at the end a peaceful pact . This movie can change the way you look at life if you open your eyes . Kurosawa might have made better films but " Ikiru " is his most emotionally resonant and powerful that I've seen .
The Raging Bull Named Rocky . . .	" Rocky " is about a man . It is the story of a man who exceeds past all normal expectations and makes the most out of what he is doing . What is he doing ? Boxing . Why ? As Rocky says in the film , " You have to be a moron to want to box . " Rocky is played by Sylvester Stallone , whose only other film before " Rocky " was " Weekend at Kitty and Stud's , " and , as you can probably guess by the title , it was an X-rated movie . But Stallone gives just about the best performance of his career here . Before he started getting into recycled action movies and unfunny comedies , the man had talent , as seen shining through in " Rocky . " Somewhere along the way he lost that talent , but it's pretty evident that he had it at one time . Stallone wrote the script , which is about a down-on-his-luck Philadelphia man named Rocky Balboa . Rocky is your average tough-guy you see walking down the street , but this film takes a closer look INTO the guy walking past you , and not AT the guy walking past you . He lives in a beat-up , old apartment , infested with roaches , and he barely makes enough money to support himself . His job ? Rocky retrieves money for loan sharks . His real job , however , is to break the loaners ' thumbs if they don't pay up . He's a muscle man . After he returns from his " job " every day , he takes time to do what he has been doing for the past six years , which is boxing . Then , after that , he takes a trip to the local pet store to see the love of his life , Adrian , who works there . He constantly tries to impress her and talk to her , but she is shy and literally does not talk much throughout the entire film . But things change for Rocky after heavyweight champion Apollo Creed ( Carl Weathers ) decides that he wants to make a big performance on the 4th of July . He wants to appear nice by letting a regular Joe Schmoe fight him in the ring . All for show , of course . As he is looking through a book of local boxers , he points his finger at the letters THE Italian STALLION , a . k . a . Rocky . He says that fighting an Italian is perfect . " An Italian found America , " Creed says . If he fights an Italian-American on the 4th of July , it will be symbolic and will also make Creed look good . But Rocky doesn't realize this is all for show . When he receives word that Apollo Creed wishes to fight him in the ring , Rocky begins to train long and hard with Burgess Meredith , which results in the famous scene where Rocky runs up an entry of stairs in Philly with the music " Gonna Fly Now " playing in the background . This scene is spoofed by films world-wide , and it's one of the cornerstones in film history . You will see it all the time . It's just one of those film moments that are marked down in history . The most entertaining thing about " Rocky " is how innocent Sylvester Stallone comes across in his role as Rocky . You feel for him when he is trying to impress Adrian and she shrugs him off . The scene where her brother invites Rocky over , and Rocky keeps saying , " Are you sure she knows I'm coming ? " is a sign of how the guy has been put down . And then when she comes over to his apartment , he acts nice and talks to her . He's not trying any moves on her . He just enjoys being with her . Rocky is a bit of an idiot , as he himself admits , but he's a sweet idiot . And the end , when Rocky fights Apollo Creed , is amazing . A nobody who actually stands a chance against the heavyweight champion of the world . Creed and Rocky are being battered by each other . Creed goes into the opposite corner as Rocky , and one of Creed's managers says , " This guy thinks this thing is for real - - knock him out ! " You feel sorry for Rocky there , because he is giving the fight all he's got , when it was just a publicity stunt from the beginning , but he didn't even realize it . Things like that are what make " Rocky " what it has become over the years . It is a great film , and it has many classic moments that you will see spoofed in films all the time . You should probably see it just for that fact . But the truth is , if you take away all the underlying intricacies , " Rocky " is just the story of a simple guy who gets a chance to do something amazing , and he gives it all he's got . I think we've all gone through something like that before , and if so , you will be able to identify with " Rocky " all the more .
A very good game with an interesting plot to follow , shown through graphic novels	Max Payne is a man with nothing to lose . He has been framed for murder , and lost his wife a child . Now , you must take control and lead Max to the ultimate revenge against the killers of his family , and the people who set him up . With a great plot to follow , shown with comic graphic novels , realistic gritty surroundings , bullet time-a slow-mo matrix kind of effect - and weapons , revenge and more , MAX PAYNE delivers to the hard core gamers out there . I think it's one of the most under rated video games ever . If you like games such as Grand Theft Auto 3 , you'll love Max Payne . Also , get the game on XBOX . It has the best graphics out of all the systems . stars . JOHN ULMER
" It is a gift ! "	Great surprise from Peter Jackson on the Fellowship of the Ring Extended DVD . Jack Black hands over the One Ring at the Council of Elrond . Problem ? He got drunk with some mates the night before and got is . . . put somewhere personal . Spliced together with the scene from the film , this is a great little treat for people who hate - - or love - - The Lord of the Rings .
Hate it all you want . I like it , and think it's pretty good - - for a spoof .	I'm not a huge fan of slapstick spoofs . I love " Airplane ! " and the " Naked Gun " films , but it's not my favorite genre . Ironic , then , that I find most spoof movies enjoyable , at the very least , because they're all really , really stupid . There's more quality in " Airplane ! " than , say , " Hot Shots ! " , but both films are enjoyable , because you have to do absolutely no thinking whatsoever . All you have to do is laugh a few times . And with the millions of jokes ( okay , hundreds ) per film , you're sure to find at least a handful of things worth laughing at . " National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1 " is one of my favorite spoof flicks . Why ? It's stupid , silly , funny , and one of the most enjoyable films available to see . Yeah , it's stupid , like I already said . But it's loads of fun , too . And I don't care if critics bashed it when it came out - - it's still a very fun movie . Everything gets lampooned in this : " Lethal Weapon " to " Die Hard " to " Silence of the Lambs " to " CHiPs . " And , alongside " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " ; " Austin Powers in Goldmember " ; and " The Player , " it has some of the most cameos / stars to date . Get this : Emilio Estevez , Samuel L . Jackson , Tim Curry , Jon Lovitz , William Shatner , Denis Leary , Erik Estrada , Dr . Joyce Brothers , Bill Nunn , Kathy Ireland , Corey Feldman , J . T . Walsh , Paul Gleason , F . Murray Abraham , Bruce Willis , Phil Hartman ( R . I . P . ) , Whoopi Goldberg , Charlie Sheen ( Emilio's half-brother ) . . . am I missing anyone ? Mel Gibson , Danny Glover and Joe Pesci would have completed this cast . I wonder if they rejected cameos . Wes Luger ( Jackson ) has been assigned a new partner , the loose canon Jack Colt ( Estevez ) , who lost his dog long ago and is now mentally unstable . Luger lost his partner ( Goldberg ) , too , and the effects of the past often catch up with him , so far that he finds it impossible to fire a gun without shaking violently and spastic-like . General Mortars ( Shatner ) is planning a devious scheme of running drugs through a Girl Scout cookie-type company , and Colt and Luger try to thwart his plan and save the day before it's too late . Meanwhile , they come to appreciate each other - - while lampooning everything in sight . The most puzzling thing about " Loaded Weapon 1 " is the fact that , if you look at most user comments on the Internet Movie Database , they're all quite positive . It has a low standing at 5 . 3 stars , yes , but the user reviews for the film are pretty decent . A lot of people found the film " funny for what it is . " I do , too . Spoofing a spoof is kinda pathetic , I'll admit . " Lethal Weapon " always was more tongue-in-cheek comedy than anything else . Even as a hard action film it was always winking at the other films of its genre . " Wayne's World " isn't exactly a drama of epic proportions , either , come to think of it . Even " Basic Instinct " is a hard film to spoof , if you take a moment to reflect - - it's never exactly horribly serious . Just sleazy . ( I won't ruin how " Loaded Weapon 1 " pokes fun at the famous Sharon Stone interrogation scene . ) Yet , in my honest opinion , " Loaded Weapon 1 " does a pretty darn good job of spoofing everything in sight . Estevez is a good Riggs-type who pines for his lost dog ( not a wife , mind you , but a dog ) . Jackson - - who's usually great - - is decent as the Murtaugh-type character , although he is shoved aside by the screenplay to make room for Estevez . ( Whose brother was just as good in " Hot Shots ! " , although I think this is a funnier film . ) Lovitz , hair bleached ( impersonating Joe Pesci from the " Lethal Weapons " ) , comes across as an irritant sidekick who appears out of thin air only when the plot needs him - - which I suppose was the point . ( Was " Loaded Weapon 1 " assuming that Joe Pesci's Leo Getz character was an irritating co-star placed in the film as nothing more than an easy plot device ? Probably . ) And in one of the simplest - - but also one of the most effective - - scenes , we get the famous bathroom bomb sequence from " Lethal Weapon 2 " told in an entirely fresh perspective . Here's how it goes : The door to Jackson's house is wide open . Estevez walks in and calls him . " I'm up here ! " is the response . Estevez walks up the stairs , gets to the bathroom , opens the door , sees Jackson on the toilet and says , " What are you doing ? " Safe to say , he's doing exactly what it looks like . His blunt reply is one of the highlights of the film . ( Let's face it , that scene from " LW2 " was destined to get poked fun at some time or another - - I'm just glad it got spoofed in this . ) stars . - John Ulmer
A fine return to form	After a series of fairly disappointing episodes , " The Gang Runs for Office " is a fine return to form for " Sunny . " Returning to the style of the first season ( Season Two has taken a somewhat darker approach so far ) , this episode features Frank ( Danny DeVito ) telling the gang how politicians can make money by soliciting bribes while running for office . This sparks the imagination of Mac ( Rob McElhenney ) who decides to become campaign manager for Dennis ( " He has JFK hair " ) . After Mac is fired , Charlie ( Charlie Day ) takes over as campaign manager . Mac decides to try to solicit a bribe anyway and ends up being blackmailed by politicians he calls " nerds . " Meanwhile , Dee ( Kaitlin Olsen ) is mentored by her father Frank and turned into a bimbo by him so that he can use her as a pawn in a bribe-game with a seedy , sexist politician . This episode has a lot of ironic twists and turns and all the loose plots connect together at the end . It's one of my favorite episodes of Season Two so far and I'd probably rank it as one of the very best of the entire season . I felt let down by the last two or three episodes but this was really a return to form as far as I'm concerned . The writing and jokes are all on par with the season debut ( " The Gang Gets Handicapped " ) and the political incorrectness is hilarious .
A Surprisingly Good Comedy . . .	" The Hard Way " stars Michael J . Fox as Nick Lang / Ray Casanov - - a big-time film star who is good-natured and eager to follow around real-life Detective Lt . John Moss , NYPD , played by James Woods . When I first saw previews for this film , I thought I knew what it would be : another clichéd film , involving a snobby film star getting teamed with a cop who hates him . I was wrong . This film , in a way , blew me out of the water , because when I viewed the film I realized that Michael J . Fox's character was not snobby , nor ignorant . He was more-or-less run by Hollywood , instead of vice versa . He is what you would call , simply put , innocent . Not in a holy context like we are used to when we hear that word in films these days , but almost like an innocent child . He really can't wait to watch , hear and learn from John Moss . Granted , he does usually mess up Moss ' assignments , but not from ignorance or not caring . He messes up the assignments trying to help Woods and learn ? Woods , on the other hand , is partly what I expected , yet better . He fits into his character perfectly and plays it with such sickness towards Fox's character , that you sometimes feel like yelling at the guy for being such a jerk . I have always liked James Woods ' performances in films . He just fits into his certain ' trademark ' characters . Unfortunately , the end of the film seems to stain the rest of the film's surprises , and slip into our average cop-buddy comedy , with a ridiculous climax . Luckily the very , very end of the film is slightly predictable , but Woods ' outlook on Fox , while he respects him more , still hasn't changed a whole lot . He still doesn't really like the guy as a friend , but almost puts up with him because of what he did for Woods . It's a bit hard to explain , especially without throwing away the ending , but when you see it , you'll understand . So , with that in mind , the very end of the film redeems the short five minutes or so of Hollywood cop-buddy film clichés . ' The Hard Way ' was a major surprise for me , and turned out to be a very enjoyable comedy . I wouldn't really classify it in the ' cop-buddy ' genre . It's too unpredictable ( to a certain degree ) and enjoyable .
Classic Early Hitchcock . . .	Perhaps a bit hard to watch for younger generations , but this is the superior version of the yuppie couple whose only child is kidnapped and held for ransom ( remade under the same title in the 50s by the same director , Alfred Hitchcock ) . The film doesn't live up to " The 39 Steps " or " The Lady Vanishes " as one of Hitch's early works , but it is a superb example of classic low-budget filmmaking at its best . Yes , the effects ( like the opening ski slope run ) are incredibly laughable , but hey - - it was filmed on a virtually empty budget by a relatively unknown director at the time with a low-budget cast in Britain . Superb . stars . - John Ulmer
This movie isn't exactly " When Harry Met Sally . . . "	" Punch-Drunk Love " is a lot of things . It's the change of direction for an actor . It's the change of acting for a director . It's odd , demented , and strangely entertaining . It could be called a form of art , which it probably is . It is good , but not particularly great . Adam Sandler plays Barry Egan , a lonely , sad man with seven sisters . Barry has violent outbursts sometimes , and the most likely reason is because of the way his sisters treat him . Barry admits that he doesn't know if he's normal or not because he doesn't know how most people are . One day he meets Lena ( Emily Watson ) , and they go out to dinner . Barry starts to fall in love , but trouble starts when furniture outlet owner Dean ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) sends out four blond brothers to get money from Barry . Why ? Because Barry called a phone sex line the night before and gave out his private information . Now Barry must protect Lena and show Dean who he's messing with . " Punch-Drunk Love " is a really weird movie . Think " Being John Malkovich , " " Magnolia " and " Happy Gilmore . " Barry Egan is a rage-oholic , just like Sandler's other character Happy Gilmore from the said movie . As you probably well know , " Happy Gilmore " is about a hockey-player who becomes a golf player , and beats up a lot of people in the process . " Punch-Drunk Love " runs in somewhat the same veins . In one scene , when Barry and Lena are eating dinner , Lena tells Barry that his sister told her a story about Barry throwing a hammer through a glass door , and Barry excuses himself , goes into the bathroom , and tears it apart , destroying it limb from . . . toilet paper holder . The biggest thing I heard about this movie was how good Adam Sandler was in his role . Many who dismissed his comedies praised him here . I always enjoyed his comedies ( most of them , anyway ) , so I didn't have any reservations about admitting Sandler did a fine job , which he did . His character is quiet , loney . He tells a dentist in once scene , " I don't like myself very much . " There's a different side to this Sandler ; he's not as cocky and self-assured as he was in , say , " Happy Gilmore " or " Billy Madison . " He's different . Maybe too different for his fans . When he finally confronts Dean at the end of the film , he says , " I have love in my life , and it makes me stronger than anything you could ever imagine . " If someone approached you a year ago and placed a bet that Adam Sandler would ever treat women with respect in a movie of his , I bet you'd counter it . But I guess strange things happen . The entire film is very odd . There's a Charlie Kaufman vibe running through this movie . Paul Thomas Anderson - P . T . Anderson to his fans - brought us " Boogie Nights " and " Magnolia . " " Boogie Nights " clocked in at about two and a half hours , " Magnolia " at three + . " Punch-Drunk Love " is eighty-eight minutes . This might be the sign of a talented director changing courses , or a talented director taking a break from his more weighty motion pictures . Whatever the sign , the film is a bit too wacky and never really explains things like it should . But it's a fine film to watch , and there's nothing particularly awful about it . I found myself liking it more than I thought I would after seeing the trailer . Besides , it's probably the only time you'll ever watch a romantic film where the star-struck lovers say , " I love you so much I could smash your face in with a sledgehammer . " This movie isn't exactly " When Harry Met Sally . . . " stars - John Ulmer
Wow , one of the best films ever !	Though it's not the best film ever , ' Memento ' is definitely on my top 250 . It's one of the most original films ever , and the screenplay is excellent . It kept me guessing to the end , and the acting was brilliant by Guy Pearce , Carrie Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano . I highly recommend ' Memento ' to you , I think it was my favorite film of 2001 . stars ! JOHN ULMER
One of the best film noir / homage films ever made !	" Chinatown " is so good , it's scary . Jack Nicholson is Jake Gittes , the iconic private eye hired to spy on the husband of a woman who suspects he is having an affair . What Jake soon uncovers is a vast conspiracy involving local tycoons and water - heading towards a great conclusion with a classic surprise ending . " Chinatown " might not be the best film noir ever made but it is certainly one of the best . Like " Indiana Jones " it is a loving homage to its source - in this case movies of the 1930s , 40s and 50s such as " The Maltese Falcon " ( most obviously ! ) and lesser-known film noirs such as " D . O . A . " ( which no one else I've seen so far has mentioned in comparison to this , but it does have its similarities ) . Nicholson is absolutely superb in his role , playing Jake with all the touch panache of an instant classic anti-hero . This was certainly a movie of the 1970s , with its anti-hero being the guy we come to root for . Robert Towne is a genius and I may seem to be giving " Chinatown " loads of fanboy praise but I can honestly say that I'm not obsessed with it in any way , in fact I've only seen it a few times . But it's just a really , really great movie that's perfect in just about every way - direction , acting , screen writing , cinematography , editing , sound . . . the list is endless . Polanski deserves as much praise as Towne I suppose , because his direction is flawless and very noir-ish . ( If that's a suitable description . ) Overall , this is a classic - for good reason . After seeing this and " L . A . Confidential " within a few days I can say with confidence that " Chinatown " is much better , and will probably be more fondly remembered years from now .
Returns to the Roots of the " Lambs " . . .	Prequels are messy things . Sequels can be , too , but with a sequel , the filmmakers are creating new ground . In a prequel , the filmmakers are treading into pre-recorded territory , and if they're not careful , they can make the audience feel cheated . But with " Red Dragon , " prequel to " Silence of the Lambs " and " Hannibal , " the audience doesn't feel cheated at all . In fact , it is handled extremely well , and is not only a gripping thriller , but a superbly-performed one , also . It stars Edward Norton as forensic specialist Will Graham , the man responsible for putting Hannibal " The Cannibal " Lecter , as seen in " Silence of the Lambs , " behind bars in the 1980s . The film fades in somewhere in the mid-1980s , where Graham starts to suspect that Hannibal may have something to do with the disappearence of a musician . Will confronts Hannibal , who stabs him in the gut and slowly rips open his stomach . Graham fights back , pushing an arrow from Hannibal's study / den through Hannibal's chest and shooting him some two or three times with a handgun . Hannibal is arrested and thrown in jail . Graham is left in critical condition . Flash-forward " a few years later " to Graham living somewhere in Florida with his wife ( Mary-Louise Parker ) and son . Graham still carries the scar from his last meeting with Hannibal , and it has forever reminded him of his job and just how careful he must be . But then comes along Jack ( Harvey Keitel ) , who asks Graham to take on a new case . . . There is a serial killer on the loose who attacks every full moon . He cuts his victims with shards of glass , then takes the glass and puts the pieces in their eye sockets . He also does some other things too grisly to mention in a family review . Graham , the best-of-the-best forensic specialist , agrees to take on the case , and becomes more intrigued by it and makes it his personal agenda to bring down the killer , known as " The Tooth Fairy , " or the " Red Dragon " ( hence the title ) , who is played by Ralph Fiennes . But as the case becomes more misleading and confusing , Will finds himself seeking the advice of Hannibal the Cannibal on his particular case . And as Will faces his greatest fear , the clock ticks until the next strike by the Red Dragon . Fans will be pleased to know that Hannibal has lost none of his creepiness since " Silence of the Lambs . " Fans will also be pleased to know that after the " Hannibal " flop , " Red Dragon " returns to the roots of the original . I thought that " Hannibal " was proof the series ' creepiness had outstayed its welcome . Hannibal's persona only works once , apparently . . . well , if you think that , you're wrong . Because " Red Dragon " is equally as frightening as " Silence of the Lambs , " if a bit more unrealistic at times . And it's also a bit more typical for its genre in some respects than " Silence . . . " , but it's still very thrilling . In fact , the ending could be considered predictable , but it's not for two reasons . 1 . Unlike other horror films where you just KNOW the killer's still alive , " Red Dragon " really makes you think the killer is dead , but the surprise is . . . can you guess ? 2 . In most of the horror films out there , when the killer is supposedly dead , there is a moment of happiness and the film seems as though it is over , but you know there's just something wrong with the abrupt end to the thrills . It shows the family at home , extremely happy , until . . . the kid who went inside to get food hasn't returned . The parent goes in to look for him , and the answering machine clicks on . A cop at the station says , " He's not dead ! Get outta the house ! " Big surprise : The killer's upstairs with the kid , holding a knife to his throat . All this happens in " Red Dragon " one way or another , but you don't feel as cheated as you do watching other thrillers of the same kind . If anything , " Red Dragon " follows a lot of the typical horror / psychological thriller routines , but it's hard to notice . " Red Dragon " does jump through all the hoops of its kind , but if anything , it comes across fresh and thrilling , and this is all I ask for in a thriller . stars - John Ulmer
Awesome classic !	I wasn't a huge fan of Billy Wilder's " Some Like it Hot " when I first saw it some years ago , but " The Apartment " didn't let me down at all . Jack Lemmon is superb as C . C . Baxter , the meek corporate worker who loans his apartment out to co-workers so they can spend alone time with their mistresses . In exchange for his services , Baxter is rewarded with high praise and before he knows it he is climbing the corporate ladder to success . The movie also stars Shirley MacLaine as the young woman Baxter falls in love with , and Fred MacMurray as his boss - - and the man who also has his sex-hungry eyes on MacLaine . In fact in one of cinema's greatest cases of irony , Baxter accepts tickets to a play from MacMurray in exchange for a night in his hotel room . Baxter invites his crush to go with him - - little does he know that she's the girl going to his own apartment that very night with MacMurray's character ! " The Apartment " must have been very risqué and controversial when it was first released in 1960 . This was an era of squeaky-clean , bright and colorful romantic comedies and this put a harsh twist on everything . The implications of sex are none-too-subtle and one of Baxter's neighbors tells him to keep the noise down at night - - followed by innuendo that nowadays would almost garner a film a PG-13 rating ! Lemmon is really great in his role and displays perfect comic timing and Woody Allen-like nervous twitches and neurosis . Teamed with Billy Wilder it really is a great combination and the film itself is engaging and thoroughly entertaining . " The Apartment " - - along with other 1960s films such as " The Hustler " and " Midnight Cowboy " - - helped pave the way for future films , but its revolutionary status does not outweigh its lasting impact as a quality feature . This movie holds up on its own . Some films gain reputations due to their effect and for nostalgic purposes on behalf of critics and audiences ; " The Apartment " really is a great movie and still is .
An untouchable classic ? Pretty much , despite some flaws .	I grew up on " The Untouchables " and as a slice of cinema it was one of my earliest memories of true directing and style - watching De Palma's famous train station sequence used to always leave me in awe , but it wasn't until I was older that I understood and recognized some of De Palma's trademarks . Looking back on " The Untouchables " now I view it as a different sort of movie - it seems somewhat less operatic and more of a tongue-in-cheek , over-the-top , exaggerated mob movie with all of De Palma's typical touches . But then again , it isn't . Because this is really the second of two times only that De Palma has totally proved to audiences that he's able to construct a masterful thriller / drama _ on his own _ without copying ( or " referencing " ) Hitchcock . " Blow Out " is a good movie , as are many of De Palma's others , but " The Untouchables " and " Scarface " are arguably the only two he's made where it's really a De Palma movie , and not a De Palma-Hitchcock homage . " The Untouchables " seemed a lot better when I was younger but it's still a classic and due to my fond memories of it I'll probably always have a soft spot for it . However I do now recognize flaws I didn't used to - De Niro's Capone , for example , is a great portrayal but given awkward screen time . . . it works as a sort of convenient interlude to Costner and co . ' s adventures - Costner kills some people , flash to De Niro yelling " I want his head ! " , flash back to Costner . . . it's not exactly a perfect balance as many of it just seems out-of-place . . . De Niro is wonderful but would losing his scenes harm the film ? Not much . Instead , studying his character more would have been a wiser choice - De Palma could have easily made a three-hour epic that studies both men's stories and motivations and as a result the overall story would have been much stronger and the film better . As it is this is sort of a " Godfather Lite " - it's not an incredibly strong film , it has some flaws , it could have had ideas expanded , but at the end of the day it's a really great piece of entertainment with some marvelous set pieces , convincing performances and a legendary and iconic turn by De Niro , who totally steals the show from everyone else . The baseball speech scene is a classic - that's the type of stuff that makes me wish they had spent a bit more time focusing on him along with Costner , rather than just Costner .
Absolutely hilarious and poignant social commentary - on par with Pryor's earlier material , and - dare I say it - at times even funnier .	I believe Richard Pryor to be the best stand-up comic of all-time ( closely followed in the social-critic realm by Bill Hicks and George Carlin ) , but Dave Chappelle is promising to be a worthy successor . This HBO special from 2000 has achieved something of a cult status on peer-to-peer networks since its airing , especially in audio form , and as such has gained even more popularity since Chappelle's venture into Comedy Central's " Chappelle's Show " ( which is finishing its third and apparently final season right now ) . Looking back , I find this to be even funnier than his comedy show . Whereas his ( hilarious ) sketch show can become a bit repetitive at times and is almost always dealing with racial stereotypes and such , " Killin ' Them Softly " touches on everything - beginning with blacks and whites ( " DC has changed ! " ) , moving on to crime , then television shows , and of course marijuana . My personal favorite bit has got to be Chappelle's observations on children's entertainment . He remarks how Pepé Le Pew is practically a rapist and encourages children to " take the pussy ( cat ) " and how racist " Sesame Street " was . ( " Yeah , Oscar ! You're a grouch . " - " I live in a trash can ! What do you expect ! " ) Don't forget The Count : " I know a pimp when I see one ! " To be honest I've found Chappelle's television show to become a bit stale sometimes ( even though I'm a huge fan of it ) but I was blown away - his stand-up comedy is even better . It's rare that I find myself laughing out loud at comedy acts , but even without watching him on stage , his vocal performance is gut-busting . The 911 phone call bit is classic . I don't want to discredit Richard Pryor and say this is funnier , but if you listen to some of Pryor's older stuff , Chappelle is touching on the same issues as he did in the 1960s and ' 70s and is , at times , actually doing it even funnier . Of course , Chappelle has some way to go before matching Pryor's iconic status or even his later fusion of outrageous comedy and social satire in the mid-'70s through the early ' 80s ( which surpasses the stuff here ) , but those comparing him to Pryor have a reason to do so .
I laughed , I cried , and I think my IQ dropped . I love this movie !	The Marx Brothers . Laurel and Hardy . Abbott and Costello . Jerry Lewis . Every generation has their dose of silliness . The 1990s had Jim Carrey . And along with him came the phenomenal hit " Dumb and Dumber , " a simple tale of two numb skulls who journey to Aspen in search of a woman and happiness . Our tale begins when Lloyd ( Jim Carrey ) is escorting a young woman named Mary Swanson ( the gorgeous Lauren Holly , who Carrey eventually married and then divorced ) to an airport . He falls in love with her in the few minutes they share in the limousine , and after he has dropped her off , he watches her from the outside in his limo and sees her leave behind a black briefcase on the floor inside the airport . Rushing inside , he grabs the briefcase , only to find someone closing the gate to her plane . " It's okay , I'm a limo driver ! " he yells to a ticket checker , rushing down the airport jet way and running straight off of it , falling onto the cement runway below . After retreating to his apartment , he convinces his pal Harry ( Jeff Daniels ) to come with him to Aspen to return the briefcase to Mary . Harry , the smarter one ( or is that dumb-less one ? ) , at first hesitates , and then reluctantly agrees , and so they are off . Little do they know that the briefcase they carry is actually ransom money that Mary was trying to pay to get her husband returned to her . Now with hitment on their tail , Lloyd and Harry make it to Aspen only to wreak even more havoc . Comedic timing is everything in a comedy like this . Carrey and Daniels have chemistry and timing . Check out the scene where they are at the National Preservation Society Gala , and stand at a bar in bright , tasteless suits . The way they stand , talk , and interact is as if they really are bosom-buddies , two idiots without a clue . The film is directed by The Farrelly Brothers , Peter and Bobby . You may remember them as the men who brought us the hilarious " There's Something About Mary . " But truth be told , " Dumb and Dumber " is even better than " Mary . " Whereas " Mary " was a fun summer comedy with big laughs and tons of crude sex jokes , " Dumb and Dumber " is a true comedic gem , and carefully borders the line of tastelessness and taste , something " Mary " crosses over and never turns back to . Is this movie " dumb " ? Yes , absolutely . Will it offend you ? Perhaps if you're a snob . And I'm sure some film elitists will complain that there's nothing substantial or of artistic merit here . I don't think it matters . This movie is meant to entertain and it does so wonderfully . In the past I've given negative ratings to films of the same genre that are just meant to be brain-less , silly fare ( such as " Me , Myself & Irene " ) - the difference here is that " Dumb and Dumber " manages to come across as both likable and entertaining , while still managing to feature characters we can actually , in some crazy way , find ourselves liking . In the end , this is just a very funny movie that is well-made and memorable - much more so than some of its other 1990s " stupid-comedy " counterparts .
One of my favorite films - - still moving and touching . . .	It's hard for me to truly understand why a film such as " Ghost " appeals to my inner moviegoer so very much . Here's a film so full of clichés and tired ideas that somehow - - miraculously - - manage to stay fresh , presenting us with a great love story amidst an intriguing backdrop of murder and revenge . The only problem with the movie is Demi Moore's haircut , but that's an entirely different matter . The story is classic : Sam ( Patrick Swayze ) is a successful accountant earning the big bucks in the big city . He's got it all : A great job , a great apartment , a great girlfriend to share it with , and an overall great life . Curled up in bed with his girl , Molly ( Demi Moore ) , he watches a news program stating that an airplane crashed and everyone aboard the aircraft died . " Just imagine , " he says . " In an instant - - just like that . Bam . " He is , of course , referring to the instantaneity of death . The irony in the situation is that we all know the same thing is about to happen to him , and indeed it does , when Sam is shot dead in front of Molly by a mysterious stranger who runs off into the night . Sam dies immediately , and it takes us a few moments to realize this - - since we continue to see him run after the killer . It's then that it dawns on us : it's his ghost . Unable to make contact with the living , Sam follows Molly for weeks preceding his death . ( This is where that " SNL " skit came in - - " Oh , Molly , don't do that , it's disgusting ! There's a tissue right across the room ! " I've got a bit more info on that later on . ) However , Sam soon realizes that his old friend and fellow accountant ( Tony Goldwyn ) had hired a man to shoot Sam because he had seen evidence of money laundering in one of the accounts . Now , in order to warn Molly of possible danger , Sam enlists the help of a psychic hoax ( Whoopi Goldberg ) to pay a visit to Molly and tell her the truth about everything . " Go away ! " she yells as Sam taunts her with obnoxious songs until she agrees to tag along and go visit his old girlfriend . It's useless to delve any deeper into the plot , since it's all pretty predictable . But in all honesty , it's a fun ride getting to the end . This is a film that uses a tried-and-true formula of good vs . evil to achieve its goals . It's as old as the days and as true as nothing . I'm reminded of that speech about principals by Donald Kaufman in " Adaptation " : " This works , and it has through all recorded time . " No doubt he had " Ghost " in mind when he said that . ( I'm just joking . ) I do like the way " Ghost " uses its ideas of a ghost coming back to haunt his killer in a way different than most films , though . This ghost's intentions aren't to scare away people in a haunted mansion , but rather to reach out and touch the woman he once loved , and then - - finally - - to keep her from harm by seeking revenge on the baddies who plotted against him . I like the way one of the villains gets trapped in a bathroom and glances at a steamy window . The word , " Boo " suddenly appears as if someone was writing it , and with a scream the criminal flees the room and runs out into the street outside . If this were a horror film , the window gag might creep us out a bit and give us a chill or two . But " Ghost " uses the old ghost clichés - - haunting people , making writing appear on windows , etc . - - and makes us re-think them . Maybe that bartender from " The Shining " wasn't just a creepy old ghost . Maybe he was just having a bit of fun with Jack . Or . . . maybe not . That's where the film succeeds , I think : in its ideas , even if they have been done before . I also enjoyed Patrick Swayze's performance . Swayze is often ridiculed as an actor , and this caused him to sink back into the depths of unemployment for a number of years - - now appearing in co-star roles and low-budget films - - but I think he's a good actor with a likable on-screen personality . And he doesn't take himself too seriously , which is always a good thing . ( Anybody see that Hans and Franz skit on " Saturday Night Live " about ten years ago ? Utterly hilarious . How about the " Ghost " parody ? ) Okay , so Whoopi Goldberg didn't deserve the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress . Everyone knows it was just because the Academy was in a certain mood that year , where it felt that it had to give its appreciation to the black community of filmmakers , but it's a done deal and the movie is still a good love story , regardless of whether or not one of its actresses didn't deserve an award for her work . ( On a sidenote , Goldberg's performance is quite fun - - still , no worthy Oscar material , I soundly agree . ) I must confess with a bit of shame that it is one of my all-time favorite guilty pleasures - - the type of movie that puts me in a good mood every time I watch it , and a movie with an ending that makes my throat choke every time I see it . The ending really is perfect , and if the movie had resorted to a silly " I came back from the dead ! " bit , my high opinion of the film would surely be somewhat less enthusastic than what it is today . You can't always say that many movies are really beautiful love stories , but here's one .
Very funny	" 3rd Rock from the Show " is a very funny comedy series about a group of aliens disguised as humans . John Lithgow ( one of the most underrated actors of all-time ) is fabulous as Dick , the confused and overly dramatic alien posing as a college professor ( I think - it's been so long since I've seen this on TV ! ) . Sally ( Kristen Johnson ) , Tommy ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) and Harry ( French Stewart ) all join in on the fun as his clueless , bumbling pals - Tommy is an old alien in a teenager's body , Sally is a male in a female's body ( or so we are led to believe ) . Harry is a walking radio who receives incoming transmissions from their home planet . It may sound silly but that's the entire point ! It has some very funny quotes like , " Last week I didn't even know the difference between Bill Pullman and Bill Paxton ! " Dick : " Pullman is the fat one . " " I know that now ! " ( or something like that ) . A lot of it has to do with pop culture and as a result you may have to be American to " get " some of the jokes . One of the top ten greatest television shows of all time . Miserably underrated . It gained a strong cult following while on TV and was awarded with many Emmy nominations but never really become as successful or popular as " Seinfeld , " etc . Too bad .
A classic .	NOTE : Apparently , some fan of " Lord of the Rings " reported my review to the IMDb Admin because I said " 12 Angry Men " is ( and I quote ) " . . . better than LotR . " And for some reason , IMDb actually deleted my review - even though it had over 20 helpful reviews ( out of about 26 ) . So , to please that angry little insecure fan , I've decided to remove all LotR references in this review from here onwards . Enjoy , scumball . - - " My Review of 12 Angry Men " or " WHY THIS MOVIE IS 10x BETTER THAN THE LORD OF THE RINGS . " " 12 Angry Men " is pure , unadulterated American courtroom classic that has been shown in schools across America for decades . I'm not Sidney Lumet's biggest fan ( " Serpico " is overrated ) , but he is masterful behind the camera here . It's classic , to say the least . But it's also a wonderful motion picture . It saddens me that this is number twenty-one on the Internet Movie Database's top 250 , yet the three " Lord of the Rings " movies are somewhere in the top ten . Disgraceful , how far culture has sloped downwards over the year . A UK list of the best musicals of all time was recently completed . Guess what was ahead of " Singin ' in the Rain " and " My Fair Lady " ? " Buffy the Vampire Slayer : The Musical . " Mmm-hmm . . . I'm sure . I recommend this to anyone who thinks classic cinema is boring . Here's a classic , and here's one of many films that is put to disgrace by these newer-age lists of " best movies . " I believe many of the people voting otherwise should take into account the fact that they might enjoy " X2 " very much ( as I did ! ) but that doesn't necessarily mean it is the 120th best film of all time !
It's a great musical , and a surprisingly entertaining one , too .	The Sound of MusicJulie Andrews stars in the film that set a course for future musicals and dramas . ' The Sound of Music . ' We all know the story . Julie Andrews plays a Catholic nun who becomes a nanny for Christopher Plummer's millions upon millions of children ( not literally ) in Austria . After a while she falls in love with Plummer's character . They sing . The children sing . We all sing for ice cream ? err , I mean ? never mind . Anyway , that's how the story goes . Interesting to note that three whole hours revolve around just that . But it is also interesting to note that the film is incredibly good . Julie Andrews plays her character like it is she . She completely envelops her character . The role of Christopher Plummer turns out to be one of his only good performances . For people that do not know , Plummer calls the film ' The Sound of Mucus . ' He hates it . It's all because people remembered him for it , and he could probably never get any good jobs in film afterwards . So , of course , he purposely chose perverted roles or co-star roles . Shame on him . He should learn to live with the fact that this movie made him ? he wouldn't even be able to get ' and Christopher Plummer as _ _ _ _ ' roles . My only complaint about this film is that the children can't sing worth a darn . Every time they start to sing my ears go numb . They are miserably off tune . They also can't dance . I sometimes wonder if Kurt Russell and Richard Dreyfuss , both of whom tried out for the roles of the children , would have been better ? I wonder ? wonder ? wonder ? DREYFUSS : A doe . A deer . A female ? BOB ? ! BOB ( Bill Murray ) : Dr . Marvin ? ! DREYFUSS : Don't you see ? HE'S NEVER GONE ! Even when I'M TEN YEARS OLD ! ! ! BOB : Is this some kind of radical , new therapy ? DREYFUSS : You see ? ! Okay . Maybe not . Still ? he couldn't have done much worse than the kids in this movie . The cinematography is another thing worth noting about this film . It might not have been filmed in Austria , but I sure can't tell the difference . And also worth mentioning is the fact that ' The hills are alive with the sound of music ! ' scene has spawned off countless rip-offs , spoofs and goofs . In fact , I was just watching ' European Vacation ' about a week ago , and they had a scene where Chevy Chase is singing , ' The hills are alive with the sound of Griswald ! ' One of many countless spoofs on the scene . All in all , ' The Sound of Music ' is one of the most cherished and remembered films . Ever . Definitely worth seeing . It's a great musical , and a surprisingly entertaining one , too . stars - John Ulmer
When Bill Met Scarlett . . .	This review has been seriously edited to remain within IMDb's word limit . Please refer to wiredonmovies . com for complete , and much better , review . " I just don't know what I'm supposed to be . " " You'll figure that out . The more you know who you are , and what you want , the less things upset you . " - Dialogue from " Lost in Translation " When you're young you think you know what you want to be . When you're out of college you suddenly realize that what you wanted to be was an unrealistic fantasy . Then , when you're old and frail , you look back upon your life and see that you wasted everything with worry and ended up becoming something you never wanted to be . You could have been what you wanted to be all along - - you were just too scared and naive to realize it . In a way , you were at your smartest when you were young , even though you thought it was the exact opposite when you were older . And now that you're really old , you realize that you're also a lonely old person who wasted their life . I imagine that 50-something Bob Harris looked at 20-something Charlotte and saw a bit of himself in this woman . Their relationship wasn't so much physical as it was subtle and romantic . Their conversation about the future and what it holds is one of the fine points of American cinema . The people who say , " He's too old for her ! " miss the point . Love knows no bounds . But they're not just feeling love anyway - - they identify with each other , something they don't with their current spouses . ( " I don't know who I married ! " says Charlotte . She isn't married to Bob Harris but she knows him more than her own husband by the end of the film . ) Indeed , the film's true points are lost on many viewers who see it is a film bashing Japan , or a boring character piece , or a stupid metaphor for some larger picture that audiences don't care about . They should . Because a lot of true things about life are in " Lost in Translation . " The title implies more than it seems to after an initial glance . Sure , it has to do with an older man falling in love with a younger woman , but there relationship is never Hollywoodized . They both know there's a boundary they fear to pass . Look how they stare at each other with hesitation at the closing of each meeting . They want to express their true feelings , but marriage and age are both holding them back . Harris is played by Bill Murray . He's a frustrated , lonely , sad , droopy , middle-aged , washed-out actor visiting Tokyo to promote a brand of Japanese whisky . ( " You know Rat Pack ? " his Japanese director asks him . " Oh , yeah , sure . A ring-a-ding-ding . " ) Charlotte is played by Scarlett Johansson . She's a young lady who is visiting Tokyo with her husband John ( Giovanni Ribisi ) , who is a photographer and leaves her in a fancy hotel for a few days when he must leave for a photo shoot session . What essentially follows is an unconventional love story in the vein of " Harold and Maude , " only more realistic . The two main characters soon find themselves falling for each other , although not at all in the way that you are undoubtedly imagining after reading that sentence . No , the two people in this film - - and I call them people because they are more than just characters to any person watching the movie - - are too real to fall into the clichéd Hollywood love story rut , where there's a lot of romantic discussion and some passionate interludes . Without spoiling much at all , neither of these characters sleeps with each other . We don't know if they're going to sometimes , but to see such a refreshingly original and realistic love story - - where the two people don't fall into a bed caressing each other minutes after meeting - - is exciting . It's as if we've returned to the core of all romance films . Finally , no more stupid Hugh Grant rubbish - - here's a real love story . Tender , intriguing , interesting , and realistic , powered by two alarmingly convincing performances . ( Murray is somewhat himself in this movie , but also adds some more sadness to his character ; Johansson , really a 19-year-old actress , is amazingly mature and acceptable . ) Many of the characters from " Lost in Translation " are supposedly based on true people . For example , Charlotte's husband , John , is based on Sofia Coppola's ex-husband , Spike Jonze ( director of " Being John Malkovich " ) , who directed Cameron Diaz in that film and , according to her fans , had an affair ( somehow I doubt it , but . . . you never know ) . Kelly , the ditzy blonde movie star , is allegedly based on Diaz - - which has not been confirmed , of course , but just reported in interviews and from fans who " overheard her talking . " Hmm . . . . We'll never know for sure , but the caricatures are seemingly blatant enough . No translation is needed to separate the facts from fiction . Whether or not Sofia Coppola is just trying to tell a mass audience that she was an abandoned wife is up to speculation . Some may cringe at the way she so blatantly molds her characters after real people . But whatever her purpose was with " Lost in Translation , " she has certainly succeeded , creating the best film of the year - - more touching than any installment of " The Lord of the Rings , " more dramatic than " Big Fish , " and funnier than a lot of the crude comedies you're likely to find out there . Here's a movie that refreshes the audience in a way that makes them unsure of what they're feeling . The climax is a sort of loose end , as if Coppola is letting the audience translate what is going to happen to these two characters for themselves . Each to his or her own , I suppose . Either way , we're not supposed to undoubtedly know what is going to happen . And for me , that is quite brilliant . stars - John Ulmer
Hilarious slapstick !	I thought MARS ATTACKS was great . I must say though I'm a little surprised all the famous actors that were in this film joined the cast considering the film's no " breakthrough " for this generation filmmaking . Tim Burton's best since BATMAN , MARS ATTACKS never lets us satisfy for less . stars-worth seeing JUST for the stars , let alone the comedic brilliance of it all . JOHN ULMER
An Offer You Can't Refuse . . .	" As far back as I can remember , I've always wanted to be a gangster . " - - Henry Hill , Brooklyn , N . Y . 1955 . Gangsters are all around us . Everyone knows it , not everyone wants to accept it . " Goodfellas " - - based on true events - - explores the lives of gangsters , chronicling the events through the eyes of Henry Hill ( Ray Liotta ) , who gets involved with the Mafia at a young age and continues his " career " throughout the film . As he gets older , he marries and has children , but still works for the organized crime family , under mob boss Paulie ( Paul Sorvino ) ; and he is friends with Jimmy ( Robert De Niro ) , a calm , steady gangster ; and Tommy ( Joe Pesci ) , a wild man with serious mental problems . Eventually Henry's life goes down the gutter , leading to drug abuse and paranoia , that leads to other unfortunate incidents that will be ruined if I type any more about them . " Goodfellas " is one of the best films I have ever seen . It's a tour de force of breathtaking images , witty scriptwriting , superb acting and realistic violence . Robert De Niro gives one of his best performances - - ever - - as Jimmy , even if he's not in the film as much as you might be lead to believe from the front cover . Joe Pesci is in this movie about as much as De Niro , maybe a bit more or less . But when he's on screen there's no doubting he's on screen - - he's very hard to miss . A short , deranged , loud-mouthed man with something wrong in his head . Someone makes an insult toward him and he shoots them , and then laughs . It's quite disturbing . I am a huge fan of Pesci , and I tend to love his characters , but he really makes you feel sick towards his character in " Goodfellas , " while at the same time taking a strange liking to him . That just goes to show how good of an actor Pesci is . Ray Liotta is perfect as Henry Hill . I can't think of a better actor to play him . He captures a sense of innocence yet at the same time a feeling of violence . I love the scene where he walks over to a man's house with a regular expression on his face . " What do you want , f & ^ & ? " the man asks . Liotta continues walking , takes out a gun , and starts to continually beat the man in the skull with the butt of his gun . As Henry walks back to his car , his face is disturbing and his expression stays with you for a long , long time . Martin Scorsese is a brilliant director and his work here is fabulous ; it's been recreated by other directors ( namely Paul Thomas Anderson in " Boogie Nights " ) and there's a reason : it's great stuff . He totally deserved to receive Best Director in 1990 , but of course he didn't . ( Rumor has it the Academy frowns on Scorsese's use of racial slurs in his work . Oh boo hoo , get over it . ) The movie is based on the true-crime memoirs of the real-life Henry Hill , whose novel with Nicholas Pileggi - - " Wiseguys " - - was adapted into a screenplay by Pileggi and Scorsese . The book itself was fantastic and insightful ; the screenplay is even better . The dialogue is incredible . By the way , I think it is appropriate to put a bit of a disclaimer on this review : I would not recommend " Goodfellas " to those that have a problem with violence and / or language , and " Goodfellas " is definitely not one for your kids to watch - - it contains extremely strong , pervasive language , and a great deal of strong , realistic violence . I only put this because I am sick of parents taking children to see R-rated films that are not appropriate for children . And this is definitely one of them . Anyway , " Goodfellas " has to be one of the best films I've ever seen - - a true modern classic that will be remembered for what it is : One of the greatest tales told on screen . It's an offer you can't refuse !
I get it now .	The first time I saw " Adaptation " I expected something else and walked away severely disappointed . As some of you out there who Private Messaged me in regards to my initial review posted on IMDb might already be aware , I originally gave it a rating of stars , back when I was frequently contributing to the site . I passed on without much thought , considering it a disappointment and leaving my critique for those who cared to read it . It remains the single comment to have generated the most feedback for me . More than " The Passion of the Christ , " and more than yes , even my upsetting review of 2003's " Peter Pan " ( which seemed to anger the small die-hard fanbase for the film that lurks on these message boards - by the way , I've had to clarify this sentence by adding " for the film " because someone PM'd me yesterday accusing me of implying I have a fanbase on IMDb . . . no , I am referring to the film's fanbase , so please hold off on the accusations ) . I digress . In summary I gave " Adaptation " a negative rating and to my surprise , perhaps because I avoided totally slamming the film , the fans responded to me with kind words rather than harsh ones ; conceivably they too had initially taken a dislike to the film ? I made a daring move . I bought " Adaptation " on DVD for ten bucks , thinking , " I've got nothing to lose . " Plus , the front cover looked cool anyway . I watched it again ( after taking into mind several themes and self-referential layers I had failed to visualize before ) and was blown away by the originality and genius of the movie . My hugest complaint regarding " Adaptation , " originally , was its absurd ending - - I felt it was out of place , silly , and totally anti-climactic . Little did I realize this was the point - - to be a parody of the typical Hollywood blockbuster . There are so many underlying jokes , gags and self-references that the film grows better - - like " Back to the Future " - - on each new viewing . You're always finding new stuff . I found new respect for Nicolas Cage as an actor after my second viewing of this . I have always liked Cage despite the criticism he receives for being a one-sided actor ; here , he proves he's capable of creating two very different human beings out of the same mold . Brilliant , Oscar-worthy stuff . All in all I got it wrong the first time . " Adaptation " isn't a film that starts out clever and descends into a messy and stupid finish . Well , actually , it is . But that's the point . I didn't get it before . Now I do . If you disliked this film , my advice ? Watch it again . It knows a bit more about itself than you probably do . And read up on the message boards here a bit to get a clearer grasp of what's going on if you're totally clueless . P . S . I'd like to thank all the people on this site who messaged me in response to my review .
Hip , funny , clever .	" The Daily Show with Jon Stewart " is one of the funniest shows on television and probably the cleverest show on Comedy Central ( perhaps tied with " South Park " ) . Jon Stewart was the perfect host - his dry humor and quick wit is great . His group of news correspondants are equally humorous - Steve Carell ( who has now left to pursue a film career ) is the best of the bunch , always doing wacky , crazy stuff for the sake of laughter . The show features interviews , news clips , and so on and so forth - it's a big hit on college campuses because it seems to appeal to the new generation : it reports news but in a sarcastic , cynical fashion . I'm a very cynical person so this show fits me just right .
The Most Overlooked Parody of Last Year . . . Pure Fun from Start to Finish !	" Eight Legged Freaks " was originally titled " Arac Attack " before the film's star , David Arquette , thought of a better title ( " Eight Legged Freaks " ) . The great thing about this title is it sets up the film perfectly - - it's a parody , and a surprisingly entertaining and hilarious and fun one , too . David Arquette is the film's main character : the local boy who has returned after 10 years and still has a crush on cute Sheriff Sam Parker ( Kari Wuhrer ) . Once he arrives , he tries to spark a relationship with her , but everything is put on hold when mutated spiders ( which formed from pollution in the mining caves ) start to attack humans and animals , and everything goes haywire . Now David's character must put an end to these eight legged freaks before all legs break loose . ( Yeah , that was a pretty bad pun . ) " Eight Legged Freaks " was one of the biggest surprises of last year , mainly because it was so darn funny and such a good spoof . I went into the theater expecting , at the bare minimum , a film with a rating of . . . say . . . 2 , stars . I'd have to give this a 3 . 5 . It was completely overlooked , probably the most overlooked film of last year ( though that is pushing it ) . The parody is classic . Do you remember those old films about mining towns in the middle of nowhere , population : 9 , where giant grasshoppers , spiders , worms - - heck , I saw a film with giant ants once - - start attacking ? That's what " Eight Legged Freaks " spoofs . It takes the old formulas and twists it around to have fun with . Towards the end I found myself having such a pleasurable experience that I couldn't believe this film was so underrated . Nothing is more fun than seeing a bunch of people going after giant spiders with shotguns - - it's pure fun . The people that went into this film expecting Oscar material were nuts . The most sad thing about " Eight Legged Freaks " is that the people going into " Men in Black II " were probably expecting something like this : something funny , smart , original , witty , and satirical . I went into " Men in Black II " expecting something as good as " Eight Legged Freaks , " and apparently Roger Ebert did , too . I'm on the same level with him , because I thought this film was extremely entertaining . There are some plot holes and stupid cliches , but most of them are there to be made fun of . People going into deserted malls late at night trying to escape the spiders , people going into the lair of the spiders ( which ends in them being chased by a giant Black Widow Spider ) . Y'know those movies where people do things , and you hear people in the movie theater ( maybe it's you ) shouting , " Don't go in there ! It'll get you ! " ? That's what " Eight Legged Freaks " plays on . Basically this film makes fun of every misused B-monster movie cliche , and that's what is so darn funny about this movie . This film delivered everything I go to the movies for . stars - John Ulmer
The Se7ven deadly sins . . .	SE7VEN is a modern thriller masterpiece , in tradition of other modern classics like Silence of the Lambs . The acting is magnificent , and Kevin Spacey played the sick , twisted villian perfectly . I don't think anyone got academy awards for this but they should have . Brad Pitt's emotional scene at the end is shockingly good , and Morgan Freeman once again does a great job in his thriller genre . So have yourself a good time watching Se7ven . It will thrill you , scare you , haunt you , and even make you a little sick at the thought of what happened in the film . The ending is - quote me on this - " So shocking that you won't believe your eyes ! " stars-JOHN ULMER
More features , but not quite as good as the third . . .	I played this game a bit not too long ago . While it is good , like a lot of games , it isn't as good as its predecessor . The first three " GTA " games got better and better , but " Vice City " doesn't beat the third . The new features ( motorbikes , new weapons , more realistic vehicles / abilities , etc . , etc . . . ) are better than those in the third , but the overall game play isn't as fun . The world isn't as nice as Liberty City from the third game . But it's still a great game , and the voice-over by Ray Liotta adds an extra umph to the game . Definitely worth checking out , but not as good as the third .
Absolutely amazing . . .	More often than not , it's much better to show nothing than anything at all . Hitchcock knew this , and that's how he essentially became known as The Master of Suspense . Had he shown Norman's " mother " from " Psycho " killing the girl in the shower in greater detail , the horror of the scene would have been more greatly ineffective as compared to just how haunting it is today . Jacques Tourneur obviously understood this idea and used it to his advantage in " Cat People . " An experienced director of cult horror films from the 30s and 40s , Tourneur's story of a woman with a mysterious background still works as a pinnacle thriller sixty years later . Movies like this aren't made anymore - - and I mean that in a literal sense . A more modern director would use bad CGI effects to reveal the " cat woman " for what she is , and I can only imagine how an idea like this would translate to the screen nowadays . But the key to " Cat People " is that we never even see the cat people . We don't see anything . We don't want to see anything . " A Kiss Could Change Her Into a Monstrous Fang-and-Claw Killer ! " boasted the tagline in 1942 . Of course , this is an ancient filmmaking technique for that age - - symbolic of the loss of one's virginity , the essential background of the tale is rooted deeply in the nature and misconceptions of sexuality at the time . The monogamy of it all is very subtle and , at first glance , nonexistent - - but the deeper you look into the hints the clearer the signs appear . Irena is not allowed to kiss a man or she changes into a monstrous beast . A metaphor for loss of virginity and the result stemming from this is old folklore , and the film's use of Irena's background is more than just an explanation for her genetic traits - - it is a way of creating the central idea that she lives in fear of her own background of sexuality . It's as subtle and effective as the entire film's approach to horror . Irena Dubrovna ( Simone Simon ) is a fashion artist living in New York City . Born from a Serbian background , she lives under the impression that her own family's roots lie in an ancient curse of the " cat people " that were thrown out of a city in Serbia hundreds of years before . Animals do indeed react strangely to her . She is unable to enter into a pet store , because the squawks of scared birds and the barks of sensitive dogs drown out the entire area . It is almost as if she is truly an animal . When she is given a pet kitten , she takes it back and exchanges it for a bird . The bird dies from fright weeks later . When she meets Oliver Reed ( Kent Smith ) downtown in the city , she falls desperately and hopelessly in love , but the depression of her own fear of unleashing the cat within prevents her from coming in close contact with her own boyfriend - - and eventual husband . Left untouched by his own wife , Oliver eventually turns to his co-worker Alice Moore ( Jane Randolph ) for satisfaction ( only lightly hinted at by the film ) , which ends up sparking a terrifying anger and hatred within Irena . Hounded by a curious psychiatrist ( Tom Conway ) and feeling like an outcast around her own husband , Irena's inner cat is indeed released and wreaks brief havoc upon those around her . We never see the cat , and we never see Irena's transformation into another species . But , as I said before , it's much better - - and certainly more effective - - this way , as the suspense and mystery of the film propels it towards repeat viewings . The movie is even a bit like " Ginger Snaps , " in a way , only it's certainly more moody and suspenseful . And there aren't any fake-looking dog puppets in this version of the tale . It's always pleasant to watch classic movies late at night on a Friday or Saturday night . No one cares about them anymore - - cheap straight-to-video movies air on television earlier than the classics . But these are the staples of every existing genre - - specifically horror , when it comes to films like " Cat People . " These types of films should be appreciated much more than they have been in the past , say , sixty years . " Cat People " is an amazing achievement with a distinct sense of classic horror and a good dose of suspense . If you like horror - - or if you don't - - this is a must-see film , and it is certainly one of the most memorable cult horror classics of all time , led by some great performances and a very talented director behind the camera . What a treat . stars . - John Ulmer
No Touchie , NOOOOOOOO touchie . . The best Disney movie ever	This is absolutely the best disney movie ever . I don't know how they got David spade to do a Disney movie , but he definately made it good . If it wasn't for him it would still be good , but not as good as it is with him . This movie has hilarious jokes , and it's not just for kids . I would recommend it to everyone . - PLOT - Greedy self centered emperor Kuzco ( David Spade ) gets turned into a Llama by his evil advisor Yzma ( Eartha Kitt ) . Now in order to get back to his royal throne , he must work together with Pacha ( John Goodman ) who lives in the town he was about to destroy to turn into his own summer getaway ( complete with water slides ! ! ) SEE THIS MOVIE-PERIOD .
Not as good as the first , but a decent sequel . Hey , it could've been worse !	ACE VENTURA : WHEN NATURE CALLS has some funny moments , and some not-so-funny moments as well . But overall , it's a very decent sequel worthy of being recommended by me . All righty then ! stars-loved the cliffhanger spoof !
Heartwarming Holiday family classic .	' Home Alone ' has succeeded in establishing itself as a Christmas tradition , spawning off three sequels ( including a made-for-television flop ) , and a whole franchise in and of it . Macaulay Culkin plays Kevin McCallister , the average American child . He has an attitude almost expected of a Chris Columbus film from the eighties . He lives with a large family , which , right now , being around Christmas time , is about quadrupled , flooded by relatives ' children , all of whom pick on poor , poor Kevin ( sympathy long lost later into the film ) . One day Kevin wakes up from his sleep to find his wish has come true : his parents ( John Heard and Catherine O'Hara ) have disappeared . Enthralled by this , he proceeds to do everything and anything he was not allowed to do before , including eating ice cream in the morning , watching violent gangster films , jumping on the bed , wrecking his brother's room , and having some fun with a BB gun . Unfortunately for Kevin , his parents have not just disappeared - they have accidentally left him at home before going to Paris ! Trouble really starts when two pesky burglars , Harry Lime ( Joe Pesci ) and Marv Merchants ( Daniel Stern ) , decide that their next burglary will be at the McCallister residence . Little do they know Kevin is more than prepared , arming the house with an array of booby-traps that would impress top spies in the American government . John Hughes , writer / director / producer of my favorite comedy , ' Planes , Trains and Automobiles , ' wrote this film , and it is no wonder . It is just like Hughes ' humor . It mixes emotion , belly laughs and a warm-hearted ending all into one little bundle called a movie . John Hughes ' films , in my experience , are usually very good , mainly because he approaches films at a very classic level . He doesn't resort to crude , kid jokes , like ' The Master of Disguise ' or ' The Tuxedo , ' to name a few recent flops . He almost always levels everything out perfectly in his scripts , and nothing is different here . Also , he places Kevin and co . in a large brick home in a large neighborhood in Chicago ; a home that very much resembles those in ' Planes . ' and ' Uncle Buck ' ( I would not be surprised if it is the same home ) . As for the acting . Macaulay Culkin is not at his best here . His best performance would have to be in an earlier John Hughes film named ' Uncle Buck , ' where he had more of a cute charm than an acting charm . Here , he could barely act his way out of a plastic bag . Fortunately , with great performances by John Heard , Catherine O'Hara , Pesci and Stern , his bad acting is long forgotten by the time we become absorbed into the film . John Heard and Catherine O'Hara bring Kevin's parents to life . They seem almost complete opposites . Kevin's father , Peter ( Heard ) , is very calm and laidback . His mother , Kate ( O'Hara ) is extremely nervous almost all the time , fretting throughout the film . She is aggravated very easily and , like all mothers , her instinctive nature to care for her child is what drives her to the point she goes to in the film . And then there's Pesci and Stern . My favorite lot of the film . They perfectly blend humor , pain and aggravation to the film . Pesci's character Harry is very strict , easily agitated and picks on Marv for a great many things . Marv , the stereotypical ' tall , stupid one , ' is completely stupid . He does things that would make a hamster blush . Yet he is the character I have found many like the most , mainly because he is so stupid you have to feel sorry for him . Stern brings a great trait to the character of Marv , and I am very pleased he got the part . It's a hard choice to decide which baddie is better , so I just say I like them both the same . All in all , ' Home Alone ' is probably the best Christmas movie to rise out of the film industry in the last twenty years . It seamlessly blends humor , pain , emotion , human instinct and some great booby-traps all into one little bundle . This film has stood the test of time greatly . stars -
The best zombie movie ever - because it's more than just a zombie movie .	Zombies are boring . They're not scary , they're not intimidating . They move slower than a snail , and all they can do is eat you . I suppose in the early days there was more of a thrill to them , but that was lost as the years progressed . George A . Romero captured the fear in his original " Night of the Living Dead , " and used the zombies as satire of American commercialism in his overrated sequel , " Dawn of the Dead , " but by the time his third film came around ? the forgettable " Day of the Dead " ? the zombie genre had been ruined by the outpour of Romero rip-offs , all of which lacked the brains of his first two movies . " Shaun of the Dead " understands how lame zombies are . No one responds to the monsters . People carry on as if it's just a bad day or something , and tomorrow everything will be back to normal . When Shaun ( Simon Pegg ) runs through a crowd of the undead and swings a cricket bat at them , totally unfazed by their presence , it's one of the film's cleverer scenes . Because director Edgar Wright and writer Pegg know zombies and zombie movies suck . " Shaun of the Dead " is the best modern zombie movie ever . It's the funniest , most entertaining , most emotionally captivating and , surprisingly , one of the darkest , too ( lots of blood was used here ) . Pegg plays Shaun , a down-on-his-luck Brit who lives with his friend Ed ( Nick Frost ) and is about to be dumped by his girlfriend , Liz ( Kate Ashfield ) . When the zombies begin to attack , Shaun immediately uses their presence as a way to scheme his way back into his girlfriend's heart . It's the perfect excuse for him to go over to her apartment . There's more heart and understanding of the human condition in this movie than most dramas . It carefully balances the physical pain with the heartache ? Shaun's cruel stepdad ( the always reliable Bill Nighy ) gets bitten by a zombie , and as he bleeds to death , he apologizes to Shaun for his behavior over the years and explains that all he ever wanted was to be accepted as a father figure . It's a touching scene at a totally unexpected place in the movie , and makes the zombie attacks more than just random acts of comedy punctuated by blood-letting ? it makes them human . This is a romantic comedy about forgiveness , broken relationships , estranged parents , accepting your best friend's flaws , recognizing your own , and ? zombies . What a concept .
Amazing performance by Sean Penn	One of the most remarkable things about Milk is how little controversy has surrounded it . Just three years ago , the release of Brokeback Mountain was met with boycotts from anti-gay activists and sparked picketing of theaters carrying the picture . By comparison , Milk has courted minimal outrage . This may change over the course of the next few weeks as it expands to a national release , and surely Fred Phelps will have more than a few kind words for it , but it's still rather remarkable that the film has managed to produce such little fervor from the public . Even a visit to its IMDb message board reveals far less heated discussions than were present for Brokeback . Is it because it's a biographical film , rather than mere fiction ? Probably not , since biographical films have been boycotted in the past , too . I tend to be optimistic on this topic , and like to think that the general public is becoming more comfortable with films like Milk . After all , in the Obama age , hasn't it become positive for us to be more open-minded and tolerant of others ? The current generation spent its formative years in the Bush era , watching the Daily Show become more reliable than most reputable news sources . I don't mean to sound like Keith Olbermann , but American culture has changed rather distinctly within the past decade , and it's refreshing to see a great film judged on its artistic merits , of which it has many . Harvey Milk was the first openly gay politician in American history , elected to office in San Francisco in 1977 . He was assassinated by Dan White , a resigned city supervisor , in 1978 . These are the textbook facts , but the movie sheds some light on Milk's personal life , painting a fair portrait of a complex man ? from his relationship with a younger male , Scott Smith ( James Franco ) , to his journey into politics , to his untimely demise . Sean Penn's performance as Milk is almost certain to earn him an Oscar nomination . He seemingly channels the spirit of Milk , completely disappearing into character . It's a great performance , but not surprisingly so ? Penn has become consistent enough that even in his lesser films he manages to create brilliant work , so it's no shocker to witness what he does with Milk . It's a testament to his strengths as an actor that you find yourself acknowledging Harvey Milk not as a mere character , or as a Sean Penn impression , but as a real person ; you don't , at any time , actually feel like you're watching an actor on screen . The only other lead acting performance that may come close to this one in the year-end Oscar race is Mickey Rourke's turn in The Wrestler , with both performances focusing on what are essentially tormented and misunderstood souls . The supporting cast is up to par , too . Franco , as Milk's true love , is given slightly less to do with a character who vanishes for most of the film's middle portion , but with his work here and a great comedic performance in this year's Pineapple Express , Franco is fast establishing himself as a true talent . Emile Hirsch , as real-life activist and campaign worker Cleve Jones , turns in a humorous but affecting performance that probably won't win him any supporting standalone recognition from Penn , but helps reinforce Hirsch's direction towards becoming one of the best actors of his generation . It must also be said that Josh Brolin handles the thankless task of portraying the relative " villain " of the film , Dan White , with all the despair of a tragic hero . We feel that White's early intentions are earnest and goodwilled ? he even invites Milk to his child's baptism ? but as the events progress , Milk becomes distanced from White's policies , and White falls from glory , resigning from his position after what he perceives to be a public embarrassment at the hands of Milk , and then ? after pleading to have his job back ? is met with dismissal . White doesn't seem " evil " or even all that unlikeable ? just unstable , with repressed feelings ( in more ways than one , as the film implies ) and a fairly dark side . We don't hate him , by the end of the film , because he is given a remarkable amount of depth despite Brolin's limited screen time . One could view this film as a passion project for director Gus Van Sant , who had subsided into independent films for a few years after the mainstream successes of Good Will Hunting and Finding Forrester , but perhaps found identification with the themes of Milk . The movie arrives at an opportune time , with its focus on the Prop 6 controversy in the 1970s immediately finding relevance with the current Prop 8 vote . Some of the vintage news footage shown in the movie , featuring interviews with anti-gay activists of the time like Anita Bryant , seem amusingly dated ? until you realize how they , too , are uncomfortably relevant in our day and age . Ultimately , the movie tells us that Harvey Milk wanted to bring about change , and shows us how he made quite an impact during his short-lived political career . The film serves him justice , and ? thanks to a faultless cast and a great director ? is one of the best of the year .
It's . . . Groundhog Day ! Only This Time , The Master Of Comedy , John Candy . . .	John Candy made this film . The story involves a soap opera writer ( Candy ) who gets knocked out , and enters his own , type-written , created world , where all the characters are alive and playing their roles - or so he thinks . They are actually living them . So , Candy finds that whatever he writes on the ' ol typewriter happens in the world he's in , because , after all , he created it on the typewriter , right ? Built off the same foundation as " Groundhog Day , " Delirious is by no means great , and not John Candy's best , ( I give that to Planes , Trains and Automobiles ) but it does have an actual soap opera feel to it - that cheap feel - and has some laughs along the way . Not great , but worth watching . Candy was one of the best comedians of his time , God rest his soul . . . John " Candy " Ulmer
Finally . . . a movie that understands me ! ! !	For a few years they've had this movie at the video store , and I always wanted to get it . But for some reason I never did . So last night I finaly rented it out and I loved it ! The begginng starts off and you get turned off by it . It just seems a little stupid . But once Mike , and the others start watching " This Planet Earth " , it is just plain hilarious . ( minor joke spoilers ahead ) I love alot of the jokes , like the Buddy Epson one , and the Weeny Man jokes . Or the " Do we need to be seeing this ? " . I could go on forever . It will all make sense when you watch it . And believe it or not , you're getting two films in one . Even though few will want to watch THIS PLANET EARTH , you kind of get to wattching it , but what keeps it interesting and lively are the jokes made by the gang , watching the movie . I had a real fun time watching it , and it was just the kind of movie I needed . It had nonstop laughs from begginng to end . For the comedy achievement made by this film , and the nonstop laughing I had , although it may not completely deserve four stars , I am going give it 4 just for the movie giving me all those laughs . stars
So is the movie . . .	Review edited and therefore quite choppy due to maximum word limit . Has there ever been a truer and more heartfelt character than George Bailey ? This is a man whose life is one of great significance , but he , like all of us , does not always realize that this is so . He does not recognize his impact on the world until an angel erases his existence like chalk on a board . It is then that he is hit by the fact that one man's failing life isn't always as inconsequential as it may seem . We all remember when Clarence ( Henry Travers ) first appears on that snowy bridge and saves George Bailey ( James Stewart ) from committing suicide . He explains nonchalantly that he is an angel and George is incredulous - - until Clarence wipes away his entire past . His mother doesn't recognize him . George tells her about his uncle as a source of belief . She states that his uncle has been dead for some time , now . The best scene in the entire film is that following when George is thrown out by his mother . He runs towards the camera in an intense wide shot , his face registering emotions of fear , horror , and ultimately the horrid understanding of what has happened . This role is the highlight of James Stewart's career - - he never came anywhere close to the superb performance he gives in this movie . There is a reason it was his favorite film he ever starred in . Stewart's portrayal of George Bailey is the grown image of all of us : As a child he dreamed of nothing but exotic locations and adventurous travels to foreign lands . But now he is a family man , a father and a husband . He has left behind his silly bachelor notions , but they still come back to haunt him . Bailey owns the town savings and loan , left to him by his father . The cranky Mr . Potter ( Lionel Barrymore ) wants complete monopoly over the town , and all that stands in his way is Bailey and his little bank . But Bailey , an inner disgust and hatred towards Potter brewing since his childhood days , refuses to cave in and give it all away . Then one day , George's absentminded and quite eccentric uncle ( Thomas Mitchell ) , misplaces a large sum of money , leaving George hopeless and Potter with a serious advantage . After blowing up at his wife ( Donna Reed ) and kids at home , George gets drunk at a local bar , is scorned at by a schoolteacher's wife , and left dazed and confused , walking through the snowy town at night during the happy Christmas season without a hope in the world . Battered and delirious , thinking back over his apparently pointless and wasted life , he contemplates suicide . He prays to God and wishes that he had never existed . Which is why Clarence comes down from heaven to sort things out and answer his prayer . Essentially bombing at the box office when it was first released , and then proceeding to fall into copyright problems for years , " It's a Wonderful Life " resurfaced only years later when it was brought back into the public domain circa 1970 . When other channels were airing expensive Hollywood movies during the Christmas season , PBS picked up the film and played it as a counter attack , a weak hope prevailing in them that the classic film buffs out there would tune in . They did . And so did families across the nation . Every year the ratings got stronger and stronger and now , almost sixty years following the movie's initial release , it is considered a holiday tradition . George considers suicide as a way of escaping his problems without really thinking over the possible outcomes given his final choice . He looks back upon his life as wasted potential ; he wanted to become an adventurer , break his family's small-town tradition and become something huge . Mentally scanning his life to the point in time when he stands on that bridge , George Bailey believes that he has simply and truly created a waste of space . He's ready to end his ( assumed ) pointless life when his entire point of view is wholly altered by the power of God . George suddenly realizes that though he never lived out his boyhood fantasies , he did so much more than he ever dreamed of . He saved his brother's life , which resulted in a huge impact in later years ; he made an influence in the lives of others and brought peace and harmony to an otherwise small town by prevailing at the requests of Mr . Potter ; he married a beautiful wife and had children , all of whom will no doubt have some measure of significance later in the world . And his wish on that bridge was that he had never been born . Often I am asked to name my favorite movie , and though I ignore requests and state that I have not seen every existing movie and therefore my judgment carries no significance , I have the lightest whimsy that " It's a Wonderful Life " may be my favorite motion picture to date . I cherish few other films just as close , but to me , " It's a Wonderful Life " is more moving than " Casablanca , " a better study of one man's life than " Citizen Kane , " and a movie that will live on in the hearts and memory of viewers long after we are gone . I believe that this is the definitive Americana motion picture , regardless of how I compare it to my other favorites , which may carry the same weight but not the same true significance . Few films come as close to the heart as " It's a Wonderful Life . " And few films come as close to " It's a Wonderful Life " at all , for that matter . .
It's been given a fairly bad reputation over the years - undeservedly so , too . One of the greatest films ever made .	( This review was edited due to word limit - full review available under newsgroup section on IMDb , by John Ulmer . ) " One shot is what it's all about . A deer has to be taken with one shot . " Some films lose their charm as they grow older , or after we've already seen them once . Then , there are the motion pictures such as " The Deer Hunter " that never become tiring , and remain as haunting and deeply moving as they were the first time we saw them . There's that particular infamous scene in " The Deer Hunter " that seems to remain more disturbing each time we view it , when Michael ( Robert De Niro ) , a Vietnam veteran , tracks down a friend of his named Nicky ( Christopher Walken ) , who never arrived home after the war and is eventually found in Saigon , playing Russian Roulette for money , his mind an utter mess . He is unable to fully remember Michael , and refuses to return home , and what proceeds in the following sequence is a haunting example of gut-wrenching filmmaking . The Vietnam sequences take place midway through the movie , serving as a connection between the beginning and the end , both of which study the lives of the men and not the war around them . Michael , Nicky and Steven ( John Savage ) are young Pennsylvanian miners drafted into the war . Steven has just gotten married to the love of his life , but has little time to celebrate as he is shipped overseas with his friends . They eventually all find themselves taken hostage in a Vietnamese POW camp where their captors force them to play Russian Roulette . The rules of the game ? Put a single bullet in a random chamber of a handgun , spin it , snap it , raise it to your head , squeeze the trigger , and repeat these steps until there's only one man left standing . After a series of fortunate events Michael , Nicky and Steven escape and make their way downriver . All three men are eventually rescued , Nicky via helicopter and Michael and Steven later on . Steven's battered , infected legs are amputated and he is left helpless in a wheelchair . Michael returns home as well only to find that Nicky is still back in Vietnam . Nicky's girlfriend back home , Linda ( Meryl Street ) , begins to fall in love with Michael , but Michael soon remembers his promise to Nicky ( " If I don't make it back don't leave me over there " ) and travels over 2 , 000 miles back into the middle of his own personal hell to find and rescue his best friend . It's hard for him to understand why Nicky doesn't recognize him when he finally tracks him down . " It's me , Mike . " " Mike who ? " Causing mass controversy upon its release because of its alleged " racist " content regarding the Vietnamese , a crowd of Vietnam veterans gathered around outside the Oscars ceremony and caused riots as well , claiming that the film was " not accurate " and somehow insulting to the veterans of the war . However as many film historians , authors and critics have already pointed out , the film is never meant to be a 100 % accurate depiction of the events in Vietnam . It is not really a Vietnam War picture at all . Instead , it is a focus on the aftermath of war , and how damaging it can be , both physically and mentally , to its participants . Because of the era that " The Deer Hunter " was released in , Vietnam was a recent event , the focus of the nation , and is therefore used as a more convenient - - and relative - - backdrop ( much like " Apocalypse Now " ) . Unlike " Platoon " this is not a movie relating specifically to the Vietnam War , in fact less than a half an hour is devoted to the war scenes . It is a character study , and accusations of racism - - although perhaps justified to some extent - - are hardly convincing as the film itself is not concerned with bashing the participants of the war as it is the war itself . It is the film's necessary setup that is often called long and boring and , ironically , unnecessary , but this is essentially where the nature of each character is examined for the audience . To launch directly into the war sequences would be sloppy , and we would have a harder time caring for the characters . Instead , we are given scenes with weddings , discussions , and hunting trips - - normal events . Then , the end , a somber reflection upon the past , chronicles the aftermath of the damaging events in the lives of Michael , Steven , Nicky and their loved ones . Michael has a hard time adapting back to his normal life . It would be hard for anyone , after experiencing such damaging events and images . De Niro made a few post-Vietnam films during the ' 70s and ' 80s , the most famous being " Taxi Driver , " in which Travis Bickle was totally unable to find his way in life again after the war and resorted to violence in order to justify his existence and release his anger . " The Deer Hunter " is similar in approach but reveals more background ; this would be a suitable prequel of sorts if the names had been changed . Over the years " The Deer Hunter " has surprisingly gained a fairly bad reputation - - most of which stems back to the controversy surroundings its release and protested accolades . Director Michael Cimino's follow-up ( " Heaven's Gate " ) was an enormous flop , bankrupting United Artists , and he had a hard time finding work afterwards . His first feature film , " Thunderbolt and Lightfoot , " which starred Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges , was a buddy road movie that was also a sign of things to come in Cimino ' later features , most notably the process of male bonding , which is a huge primal element in this project . Cimino was an extremely talented and visionary director , and it's a shame that the ambition of " Heaven's Gate " cost him his career . And furthermore , despite the negativity surrounding " The Deer Hunter , " it is still one of the finest works of American cinema , a touching , poignant and ultimately depressing film that asks us if the effects of war extend past the physical and into the realm of human mentality . Yes , I think they do .
Does For Monsters What " Toy Story " Did For Toys !	Monsters , Inc . We were all , at one time , scared of monsters under the bed . Shadows of clothes in the closet . Weird sounds outside in the trees . I remember thinking there were all kinds of monsters in my room - not as much under my bed as in the closet . And once again , Pixar , who brought us " Toy Story " 1 & 2 , plays on both adults ' memories and children's dreams , making it equally enjoyable for both children and adults . John Goodman voices James P . Sullivan , known as " Sulley " to friends . He is a big , blue , hairy monster with horns on his head and hands the size of a watermelon . Billy Crystal is Mike Wazowski , his wisecracking , one-eyed best friend . Both of these monsters live in Monstropolis , a world where monsters roam freely . Their city is powered by a rare source of power - children's screams . That is where Monsters , Incorporated comes in . At Monsters , Inc . , monsters like Sulley and Mike open portals into children's rooms - through closet doors - and scare the children , capturing their scream in a little yellow bottle . Sulley is the top-scarer , bringing in the most scares . But Randall ( the always enjoyable - even when animated - Steve Buscemi ) , a wormy , multiple-armed lizard-monster with the ability to change appearances to its surroundings , is jealous of Sulley , and will attempt anything to get more scares . . . even if it means taking a child from the real world and bringing it into Monstropolis . But after the child escapes , Sulley and Mike reluctantly look after it , all the while trying to get it back to the real world before Mr . Waternoose ( the late James Coburn ) and others find out about the incident . . . " Monsters , Inc . " does for monsters what " Toy Story " did for toys . Pixar once again not only expands our mind , but our very worlds . I respect their company and commitment values very much , as you can read in my " Toy Story " review . They stick to the values that made Disney films so family-friendly back in the fifties and sixties : Respect for the audience , respect for quality , and respect for the audience's INTELLIGENCE , something Disney , who has recently coughed up a bunch of lousy , thoughtless sequels , has forgotten . Now , I know that LEGALLY Disney is co-creator of " Toy Story " and " Monsters , Inc . , " but they really are not . They just give Pixar the money and get their name branded on the front box of the film . And even then , I have heard multiple claims that Disney is very mean-spirited towards Pixar ( read into sequel trouble for " Toy Story 3 " ) and gives them the bare minimum . But that is straying off the subject . " Monsters , Inc . " is one of the most enjoyable animated films I have ever had the pleasure of viewing . I didn't enjoy it as much the first time , but I then bought it , and have since watched it many times . It is an instant classic . I will be watching it years from now , when I am old and frail and in a rocking chair . It ranks right up there with " Toy Story " 1 & 2 , and all the OLDER Disney films from the 50's-70's . It has all the elements of a sweet , charming , emotional and pleasurably good-natured animated film . And , more coudos to Pixar : Thank you for not packing it full of the language and inappropriate content that Disney shoves into the dark recesses of their films nowadays . Not only has Pixar brought back the " Family Film " genre to what it should be , but it also redefines it . Pixar's animated films are some of the most thoughtful , imaginative and enjoyable animated films ever - not to mention 100 % family safe . Thank you , Pixar , for getting back on track . stars
One of my favorite mystery / thrillers	A great movie to watch . . . . . . . is that sentence a conspiracy against you to see this movie ? Did the government tell me to write this ? That's what it's like through the eyes of Jerry Fletcher . A taxi driver who sees conspiracies in EVERYTHING , even in money . The opening scene with the people in the cab is great , all the " conspiracies " he warns them about . . . It's great . From Richard Donner ( Lethal Weapon 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 ) , come Conspiracy Theory , a movie that teaches you to trust no one . This movie deserves about 7 . 1 stars I'd say , not 6 . 4 , like IMDB has . the voters must not have really paid attention to this movie because it's great . The plot is conspiracy freak Jerry Fletcher ( Mel Gibson ) , for some reason can not seem to stop watching over Alice Sutton ( Julia Roberts ) , and he is always telling her about his new conspiracy theories , and she never has the heart to tell him to just go away . So one day Jerry ends up being kidnapped , and put in a torture room , where he is being asked questions by Patrick Stewart ( X-Men ) ( I won't tell you what his name is in the movie because it might ruin a little bit ) . After he escapes and tells Alice , who thinks he's crazy , they both end up finding themselves in a grand conspiracy , that leads to one of the best climaxs I've ever seen . Mel Gibson is perfect as the paranoid Jerry Fletcher , who has locks even on coffee cans in his fridge ( which also has a lock ) . Julia Roberts does a pretty good job as Alice Sutton as well . Patrick Stewart was good as . . . . . I'm not going to tell you but he was good . And The movie had an excellent script , and the characters interacted wonderfully together . It's a great film , and I'm glad it wasn't filled with loads of F-words like other R rated movies . It's actually a good film for kids I'd say 12 and older , it's really not all that violent . I thouroughly enjoyed this movie and I definately recommend it to you . stars
Have a " Blast " Watching " Die Hard " !	Die HardOne of the most full-out action movies of all time . It had the best formula , the best dialogue , the best stunts , the best characters , and the best explosions . " Die Hard . " Bruce Willis plays John McClane , a recently divorced cop who travels to LA for the opening of his wife's new workplace , Nakatomi Plaza , owned by a rich Japanese man . His wife ( Bonnie Bedalia ) is happy to see McClane come , and we feel that they want to get back together . Perhaps this opening party will do it . But then it happens . As John takes a trip to the bathroom , a gang of terrorists ( headed by Alan Rickman ) take charge of the company building , demanding money . John hides out in the building and tries to think of a way to get the bad guys . They have no idea that John McClane is loose in the building , and only realize that someone is out there watching them when an elevator shaft is blown to pieces by Willis . Pretty soon , the LAPD , FBI , CIA , and just about anything with three or more letters is outside , and only one man has contact with John McClane from the outside - Reginald VelJohnson , a cop with a walkie-talkie . This is , without a doubt , Bruce Willis ' best film . By far . His personality fits the persona of John McClane . It's fun watching him , for once . The formula for this movie is what makes it so great , however . Think about it . A man , trapped in a building with some bad guys ; a one man army . The perfect action flick formula . But what makes it even better is the non-stop action and excellent , adrenaline-packed explosions and gunplay . People can criticize this movie for being unrealistic , but everyone needs an escape from reality once and a while . One of my favorite parts is where John grabs a fire hose from the top of the building , ties it around himself , and jumps off the edge of the building , smashing into the outside of the glass . Yes , it is very unrealistic , but I'll be darned if it isn't fun . Reginald VelJohnson , of TV's " Family Matters , " is perfect as The Cop on the Outside , having contact with The Man in the Inside . VelJohnson has mainly gotten supporting roles in films over the years . These credits include " Turner and Hootch , " " Die Hard , " and " Die Hard 2 : Die Harder , " which was more of a cameo than anything else . Regardless , he is a good actor , and it's too bad his career has been so bad lately that he has had to resort to his old days by re-doing his character from " Die Hard " by voicing him in a PC game . It's sad enough when actors resort to videogames , but it's even sadder when video games only want you because of an old character you have played and not because of you , yourself . Of action is your specialty , see " Die Hard " as soon as you can . And if you don't like action . . . well . . . there's always " Gods and Generals " for you !
Not " the best film ever made " but certainly one of the great ones	The movie opens at Don Vito Corleone's ( Marlon Brando ) home in the 1950s . His daughter is being wed and the entire " family " has come to celebrate . Vito's son Michael ( Al Pacino ) , the most " Americanized " of his immediate family , has rejected the traditions of his ancestors and joined the army . He has no plans of becoming an errand boy for his father . Michael's older brother Sonny ( James Caan ) is hot-headed and overzealous . He is next in line to inherit " the throne " from Don Vito , although Vito suspects perhaps that Sonny is too heated for his own good and will never make it on his own . An important scene in the film is when he belabors his son about correcting him in front of strangers . A plot emerges involving a corrupt policeman and a competing Mafia family , who try to assassinate Don Vito and successfully murder his eldest , Sonny . Michael steps in to avenge his father's death , but must then be sent off into exile in Sicily for a short period of time to avoid the authorities , leaving behind his girlfriend Kay ( Diane Keaton ) , who wants to get married . In terms of acting , its strength lies in Brando , Caan and Pacino . Brando is perfect - his trademark " soft mouth " being inimitable - whereas Caan is very good at turning Sonny into a multi-dimensional character . Pacino is great and displays intelligence and a certain suave aura , which is vital to the character . This was a glimpse of Al Pacino the actor before he turned on the screaming switch . Francis Ford Coppola does a wonderful job behind the camera , which is more than can be said for his efforts within the last decade . Likewise the script by Coppola and Puzo is very well-written with impressive dialogue and conflicts of the characters . " The Godfather " isn't exactly the best film ever made but it's certainly a great movie ; a masterpiece that redefined epic cinema much in the same way " Lawrence of Arabia " did .
One of the best comic book adaptations of all time .	I've been watching " Dick Tracy " for years , and as a result it's become a vital part of my life - it was with me throughout childhood and I used to see it quite often . Seeing it now , as an adult , it's still a very good movie - dark , satiric and incredibly misunderstood . About the only thing that can be said is the Oscar nomination Pacino received - other than that it is rarely discussed and didn't make much of a fuss when it came out . Pacino is over-the-top but to good effect as he's clearly having loads of fun . Beatty is great as Dick Tracy and behind the camera manages to capture the atmosphere of a film noir comic book better than any other film , possibly , I have ever seen . Just taking a look at one scene from the film is breathtaking . The lighting , velvet overtones and smog / smoke combine to create a great effect . There are some really funny cameos including one by Dustin Hoffman as " Mumbles , " and I don't think there are any flaws at all in terms of acting - even the mandatory kid-character is far better than expected . Overall , a really fine movie that has become misunderstood over the years since its release and is incredibly underrated with only average on IMDb . The critics ' reviews are very positive ( check out RottenTomatoes . com ) and after seeing the film once again it's not hard to see why - this is a perfect example of capturing the essence of a comic book , from style to eccentricity . Highly recommended . stars .
Grand Theft Auto 3 is the very idea of what a great game should be	A REVIEW on the GAME : GRAND THEFT AUTO 3 ( 2001 ) ( stars ) With the voice talents of : JOE PANTOLIANO MICHAEL RAPAPORT In the game Grand Theft Auto 3 , your character is a man who has been betrayed , and left for dead by a partner in crime in Liberty City , where the only dirty word is hope . Now , he must restart his life by doing jobs for the local mafia , and meanwhile seek revenge on those who betrayed him . The main idea behind GTA3 is to provide you with a new experience . You are seeing your character with a third person view of Liberty City - a seedy area where anything goes . You can pretty much just steal any car on the street you see , as long as you can catch it . Some really good cars are hidden , for example , there's a car that's just like a jaguar hidden in a car shop and you must break in to get it . There's a hidden tank , and tons more fun , but the main idea is just to provide you with fun . Some people say this game is too violent , and after all I heard , when I played it the first time I expected tons of gore . But , it's not the most violent game I've seen . I have seen worse . It's really what you do in the game that counts . For example , you can walk over to someone walking on the street , and get in a fistfight , kill him or her , and steal his or her money . Or you could sniper out people with a sniper rifle , a weapon to choose from among the many you can get in the game . But with actions come consequences , because the more you do , the more ' stars ' you get-the most you can get being six . For each star represented , is a higher level of police after you . Eventually , you can get helicopters , snipers , and all trying to take you down . So if you play the game like this , it can be very bad for people affected by games . The whole basic idea of the game is revolving pretty much around mafia jobs so yes , I wouldn't recommend it to children . But you can also take taxi jobs , firefighter jobs , and police jobs , hunting down criminals like yourself . So with this in mind , you can also become a good guy . Depends what you want to be . Another fun thing , is with most car racing games and such , if you want a new car , you have to go to the start menu and choose a new car ( games like Project Gotham Racing , and Twisted Metal ) . But in this game , if you blow up your car , or simply want a new one , you just run over and pull someone out of his or her car , and steal it . Yes , agreeing with some people , this is kind of bad for people who are easily influenced to see things , so I don't recommend it to anyone who might look at this and think to themselves , ? I think I'll go hotwire cars ! ' : ) The graphics are very good , and the 3-D environment is very big for a game . You can travel by subway , car , plane , and more to 2 other cities near by ( after you progress in the game ) . So just experiencing the environment is worth the price of the game . It's very realistic , and in some parts of town it's extremely seedy ( you can guess what I mean ) . I think a few aspects like that could have been left out of the game , but I guess the publishers decided it would make it more realistic . Anyway , yes . I definitely do NOT recommend this game to children , for not only is there violence , but the jobs you do , and the city are both almost too realistic for any child to handle . But for older teens and above , the basic idea of GTA 3 is very fun . It's a great improvement on the previous games , and you can even change your third person view to the old above head view . The game's basically a mix between Max Payne , Great car games , The Sims , and The Godfather trilogy . It's simply one of the greatest game experiences I've ever had , and it is extremely addictive ( thank goodness I'm not someone who can play games and lose track of time , I would probably still think it's the day I bought the game ) . Anyone who wants to experience this same feeling of a virtual 3-D world of sleek , stylish cars at your hands , taking out jobs for the mafia , and so many other fun things in this game , please play it . Just don't get too addicted , because beware-it's very possible . Grand Theft Auto 3 is the very notion of what a game should be . The idea of a world where you don't really have to do anything - instead of having to crack levels by the same method ( take most games for example , to beat the level you must figure out how to get to the bad guy , kill him , and win the game . And although you can choose how to fight them , you basically have to follow the whole level , the same way everyone else who plays the game does , left here , right there , watch out for that guy who pops out of the corner in 30 seconds , etc . ) You can really explore Liberty City the way you want to . No standard level procedure . It's fully self-deciding on what you want to do , not what you have to do . That's what makes this game so enjoyable . Once again , GTA 3 is not a game for children but for adults . stars . Play it , and I promise it will be one of the most enjoyable game experiences you've had in a long , long time . JOHN ULMER-sk8boarder1088 @ aol . com
A bit overrated , but still a fun film - - if you have an open mind .	' South Park ' creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone have been major protesters against the Motion Picture Association of America ( MPAA ) since one of their early films , ' Orgazmo , ' was tagged with an NC-17 rating due to strong language and pervasive sexual content . They have been known to purposely upset the MPAA by a number of methods , but nothing they've done yet reaches the low standards of ' South Park : Bigger , Longer & Uncut ' ( 1999 ) . This , an animated feature film spin-off of the immensely popular cult television show from Comedy Central , is one of the most deliberately profane , vulgar and controversial films I have ever seen ? and , like many controversial films , it is a social satire with bite . That's not to say that it's flawless . The movie is funny , and it has its fair share of hilarious moments , but it isn't great by any means ? and often goes searching for laughs in all the wrong places . Still , one has to admire the guts of Parker and Stone ? who also voice most of the characters in the movie . I never thought I'd see so many racial stereotypes packed into a single movie ? much less an animated one . I never thought I'd see young ( albeit animated ) children using four-letter words with such pride . I never thought I'd see Saddam Hussein and Satan having a homosexual affair together . Then again , I never thought I'd really see anything remotely close to the content in general that exists within ' South Park ' the movie . Fans of the TV show will already be familiar with the characters : four animated kids named Kenny , Kyle , Stan and Cartman . ' Uncut ' opens with a cheery musical number and rapidly moves towards vulgarity as the ' innocent ' children sneak into an R-rated movie starring their boyhood idols , the foul-mouthed Canadian duo Terrence and Philip , whose combined humor consists of bodily function gags and songs with extreme profanity . ( ' What did he say ? ' one of the boys mutters in the theater after the first expletive is heard . ) Terrence and Philip's movie becomes number one at the box office , inspiring many local children to start frequently swearing . The parents of South Park decide to launch a campaign named Mothers Against Canada ( MAC ) , with the sole intent of starting a war between the U . S . and our neighbors to the north . If Terrence and Philip are killed , Satan and a recently deceased Saddam Hussein ( the character of which is actually represented by real photos of Hussein blended with animation ) will rise from the bowels of Hell and take over the world . Terrence and Philip's death somehow ? for one reason or another ? signifies the coming of the apocalypse , and Kenny ? who dies early on in the film , goes to Hell and realizes Satan's plan ? rises back to Earth as a ghostly image and tells his friends they must stop the war . I think Trey Parker and Matt Stone are making a statement here , not just about war in general but also about what they believe is ' censorship ' by the MPAA and their absurd standards ( as one character sings in a musical number , it's okay to show nasty blood and guts ? but just don't say any naughty words ! ) . And it's quite obvious that ' Terrence and Philip ' are metaphors for the creators of ' South Park , ' and the reaction of the public in the film is an eerie foreshadowing of the controversy surrounding the ' real ' film's release . It's a clever bit of self-parody that works quite well . I don't think anyone can say that ' South Park ' is dumb , even if it's immature . Canadians in ' South Park ' are represented by crude stick figures with heads that part at the mouth into two pieces , flapping about as they ' talk . ' The animation on the Americans isn't much better ? very , very basic drawings . In a bit of a self-referential stab , one of the kids in the film says that he likes Terrence & Philip , but ' the animation sucks . ' Some people said ' The Passion of the Christ ' was anti-Semitic . Some people said ' Birth of a Nation ' was racist ( indeed , a recent limited re-release was protested ) . ' South Park ' is both . Packaged along with more than a handful of scatological references are cruel jokes surrounding ethnicity . There are running gags about Jewish residents of South Park , as well as African-Americans and , of course , Canadians . However juvenile their jokes may be , however , Parker and Stone manage to make us laugh ? even though we may sometimes feel disturbed by doing so . And one can't help but realize that a lot of the racial jokes are satirical ? such as when the Army decides to launch an attack against Canada , and a platoon of black soldiers are used as the ' human shield . ' The movie is often trying to say something important , which isn't at all what I had expected ? and the notion of America trying to blame other countries for its fault ( in this case , Canada ) isn't so far-fetched . ' South Park ' contains less profanity than ' Scarface , ' ' Pulp Fiction , ' ' GoodFellas , ' and ' American History X , ' among others , but it's known for its strong language . It constantly pops up on Internet message boards as one of ' the ' most profane films of all time , despite the fact that according to official sources it contains less than half the amount of foul language found in Martin Scorsese's ' Casino . ' So why are so many people convinced that it has the most profane language of all-time ? Well , part of the reason is its length ? barely more than 80 minutes ? and I'm sure another large issue is the fact that it's animated , and all the profanity is delivered at a rapid speed , mostly by supposed ' children ' ( who look like big blobs of cardboard ) . And , unlike more serious films , the profanity in ' South Park ' is there for no reason at all ? at least not in the same context as dramas . In an interview , director Trey Parker claimed that the intent of ' South Park : Bigger , Longer & Uncut ' was to shock . And indeed , if that was his point then he and co-writer Stone have succeeded ? this is a revolutionary advancement in mainstream entertainment . The MPAA is constantly stretching its boundaries , and with ' South Park ' ? which they originally gave an NC-17 classification prior to certain scenes being deleted by Parker ? they really have shamed themselves . I liked ' South Park , ' a number of scenes made me laugh and I was very amused overall . No fault can be found in its short length , either ? had it dragged out another twenty minutes , perhaps it would have seemed too long , but its current runtime is appropriate given the material . Not all the jokes work , and sometimes the film just goes too far ? but if you're looking for something funny , and you have an open mind and aren't easily offended , ' South Park : Bigger , Longer & Uncut ' is a worthy recommendation .
Almost As Good As the Original . . . Extremely Underrated . . .	Let us recall the cliffhanger of an ending from the original ' Back to the Future . ' It is 1985 . Marty McFly ( Michael J . Fox ) is back from 1955 . His girlfriend Jennifer ( played by Elizabeth Shue this time around ) and him are admiring his newfound truck . That's when Doc Brown ( Christopher Lloyd ) came back to 1985 in a hovering Delorean and brought Marty and Jennifer into the future with him . This is where the audience comes back into the film , in the year 2015 . And let me tell you , Doc and Marty have really got their hands full this time ? ' Back to the Future Part II ' did something that not many sequels do . Because of this , it is one of the best sequels ever made . Let me explain . In a lot of movies the directors and writers complain about how the movie would have been better , but they had to make a movie that ' people who didn't see the first film would understand . ' Let me say something in regard to these pitiful statements . It's the fault of the people if they didn't see the original film and decided to watch the sequel anyway . Why watch a sequel if you haven't seen the first ? ! I guess a lot of people do ? Well , ' Back to the Future Part II ' was made for the people who saw the first . You just simply can't follow the storyline if you haven't witnessed the awesome power of the original ( not ' awesome ' as in punk dialogue . I mean the true definition of awesome . Look the word up ) . I have seen people watch ' Part II ' who haven't seen the first before . It's almost funny watching them become so confused . I try to explain what's going on to them , but it is pointless . The movie is simply for those who have seen the first , plain and simple . Another wonderful aspect of ' Back to the Future Part II ' is that it broke away from the almost stereotypical ' dark ' look of the future . Blade Runner had a very sullen and dark look . Good for the film , yes , but I commend ' Back to the Future Part II ' for creating their own look for the future . Instead of grainy , dark images , we are presented with a very bright atmosphere . Objects are almost bouncing off the screen they are so bright . It is great . I also think that this sequel plays more on the whole idea of how changing things in the past effects things in the future . In fact , the original title of the film was going to be " Paradox " instead of " Back to the Future Part II . " And then there are the marvelous , confusing-to-some plot twists that really keep you thinking , but still provide enough humor and fun to create a very , very worthy sequel to the barely superior original film . I do not really understand why people do not enjoy ' Back to the Future Part II . ' I read some reviews , and it appears that it is mainly because so many people saw it without seeing the original . Why would they do this ? Again I ask myself and achieve no answer . Go buy the trilogy on DVD . They are great films , even if the third was a little disappointing . stars for ' Back to the Future Part II . ' John Ulmer
A classic , one of the very best films I've ever seen - Cagney is a god !	" White Heat " may not be typical film noir in the literal sense , but the vibes are unmistakable . It's classic James Cagney noir , and he gives his best performance ever . It's the pinnacle for all future mobster movies - " Godfather , " " Scarface " ( the remake ) and even " GoodFellas " all borrow styles or concepts from this . The ending is eerily similar to Pacino in " Scarface . " Cagney stars as a mobster ( giving one of his snarling performances ) . The plot basically follows his rise and fall . Throughout , he has a strange fascination / obsession with his mother . He loves her more than his girlfriend . This is one element that really impressed me . For a film from 1949 it really handles some seedy elements rather well - this would still raise eyebrows if it were released over fifty years later ! Cagney is absolutely terrific . The film is a huge tour de force , breathtaking and mesmerizing . One of my favorite films , I would write more about the plot but I've found I always end up ruining the movie for people ! ( I have to restrain myself from referencing the ending ! ) If you like film noir , mobster movies or James Cagney ( or all of the above ! ) go buy this movie right now .
The definitive film chronicling the rise and fall of a man seeking the American Dream . . .	" You wanna play rough ? Say hello to my little friend ! " - Tony Montana , a . k . a . Scarface . " Scarface " chronicles the life of a Cuban refugee who came to America in May , 1980 , when Fidel Castro opened the harbor at Mariel Bay , Cuba , with the apparent intention of letting some of his people join their families back in America . As the movie's opening intro explains , it soon became obvious that Castro was doing little more than sending the scum of Cuba to America in hopes of ridding his domain of filth . Of the 125 , 000 Cubans who came to America that year , an estimated 25 , 000 had criminal backgrounds . Antonio Montana ( Al Pacino ) was one of those criminals who came to America from Cuba and successfully set up his own kingdom of cocaine , wealth and greed . We see him in the first few minutes of the film being interviewed by police regarding his background . He's asked about the scar that stretches from his eyebrow down to his cheek . He gives all the right responses and is sent off to a quarantine camp along with his long-time friend , Manny ( Steven Bauer ) . After murdering a man in the camp as a favor for a Mafia kingpin named Frank ( Robert Loggia ) , the two buddies are given green cards and released from the camp . Eventually they land another job for Frank . Their wealth and greed starts to grow . Every time we see Tony Montana he is a bit better off . Better clothes , better means of transportation . He visits his mother at her small little home in Miami to show off his fortune . He tries to give her money but she says that people like him give bad names to the hard-working Cubans ( like herself ) who have come to America and work legitimately for a living . But Tony's sister , Gina ( Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio ) doesn't think so . She adores her brother and accepts 1 , 000 dollars from him as a present . But it backfires - - soon Gina is hanging out in the fancy clubs and getting felt up by men . Tony sees this and anger lights up in his eyes like fire . This happens twice in the movie . Both times are in regards to his sister . Manny explains to Gina that Tony doesn't want her to turn out like him because she is the only thing pure left in his life . Soon Tony is so powerful that he overthrows Frank and marries his girl ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) , who becomes so depressed that she sleeps all day and snorts all night . " Nothing exceeds like excess . You should know that , Tony . " " Scarface " is based on Howard Hawks ' 1932 film of the same title that starred Paul Muni as the title character . Both movies were accused of being overly violent . Both characters from the films had a strange infatuation with their sisters . Both characters fell in love with their boss ' girlfriend . But the similarities end there . The 1932 version was not about a Cuban , it was not about an empire built on drugs , and it was not very similar by any account . Al Pacino said that Muni's performance inspired him to become Tony Montana . And while some critics accuse Pacino's performance of being over the top and too flamboyant , think about this : His character is a Cuban refugee who came to America and killed people for a living before taking over an empire built on drugs and crime . He lives in fear of not only others but himself . As his life proceeds he snorts cocaine so often that he can barely think . Then he has the underlying guilt of his life bearing down on his shoulders . How over the top would you act ? The movie was written by Oliver Stone , who completed a final draft after many attempts by other writers , including one attempt by the director of the movie , Brian DePalma , who claims that his script was not going the way he wanted it to go . Stone made the story his , and succeeds on almost all levels of storytelling . Back when " Scarface " was released drugs , violence and big blowouts at the end of a movie were hardly run-o'-the-mill . The 160 + F-words in the film were not exactly standard , either . But the story is involving and sad . It is the best film about the American Dream ever made . Tony Montana wanted the world , and when he finally got what he wanted , he realized that even the world was not enough . Perhaps the best and most important scene in " Scarface " is the subtlest one - - when Tony is sitting at his desk after he has killed Manny . He has everything he ever dreamed about and wanted in front of him - - drugs , drinks , a luxurious mansion , a beautiful wife . Yet it isn't enough for him . And the reason he sits there in silence for so long is because it is then that he realizes happiness does not come from material wealth , but from the inside . And , to be honest , Tony Montana doesn't really have much of a soul inside . And he knows it . " Scarface " opens with its own theme song and closes with it , as well . It is more than just coincidence - - when it is played in the beginning of the movie , it is during the time of Mariel Bay , and hope is everywhere for criminals . When it plays at the end , we have witnessed the American Dream from start to finish . When it plays at the end , there is no hope left for anyone . . - John Ulmer
" Television has brought murder back into the home - where it belongs . " - Alfred Hitchcock	" Television has brought murder back into the home - where it belongs . " - Alfred HitchcockI am often asked what my favorite film of all time is . My reply is always the same : I do not have a favorite from all the genres . But from the thousands of films I have seen , I have not seen a film more horrifying nor terrifying as Alfred Hitchcock's " Psycho , " the only movie that has ever truly scared me in my entire life . And so I can honestly say that " Psycho " is the scariest film I have ever seen , and is quite probably my favorite horror film of all time . This is the movie that redefined the genre , and literally gave birth to psychological thrillers . By today's standards , " Psycho " may seem - at the most - tame . Audiences may not be scared by the plot anymore - a plot that was , at the time , unlike anything other , but nowadays quite normal . Gus Van Sant remade Hitchcock's classic in 1998 with both critics and audiences blowing it off . Modern audiences of today are used to slashers such as " Halloween , " " Friday the 13th , " " A Nightmare on Elm Street , " " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , " etc . , and so Van Sant's " Psycho " did nothing but disappoint them . But I guarantee that if you place modern audiences in front of Hitchcock's " Psycho , " they will come out of the film terrified to death ( like I was when I first saw it ) . Why is this ? It is simply because modern audiences don't expect such creepiness and evilness to be in a 1960 film . Most modern audiences think that " Star Wars " ( 1977 ) was the start of motion picture history , that anything beforehand is stupid , cheery and not worth their time . They will go into Hitchcock's " Psycho " and expect a happy little picture , which is why they will come out pale with fear . It all comes down to the fact that in 1960 , mainstream films did not have such subject matters as split personality disorder ( seen in this year's " Identity " ) , figures with homicidal tendencies ( like John Doe in " Se7en " ) , or characters who are literally insane ( like Hannibal Lector-type-criminals ) . " Psycho " set the course for these films . It blew audiences out of the water . They had never seen anything like it before . It is probably the only film that has ever really , truly scared me to death . I didn't want to take showers for weeks . Hitchcock once said , " Cartoonists have the best casting system . If they don't like an actor , they just tear him up . " I'm glad Hitchcock didn't try to tear up Anthony Perkins , who plays Norman Bates in " Psycho , " as a shy , awkward fellow living off of a re-routed highway . He is perfectly cast and soundly directed by Hitchcock , coming off as a somewhat strange , implacable fellow . We aren't quite sure what to make of him . Phoenix banker Marion Crane ( Janet Leigh ) is a poor creature living off of practically nothing . She wants to get married to Sam Loomis ( John Gavin ) , but the costs of a wedding outweigh both their incomes . And so one night when her employer entrusts Marion with 40 , 000 dollars , she flees with the money in the back of her car to go find Sam . However , tired from a long drive , she stops at the Bates Motel for the night . She never leaves the motel , because Norman Bates ' reclusive mother becomes jealous of Marion and kills her . Or does she ? Hitchcock masterfully weaves the suspense and horror in " Psycho , " so much so that we simply do not know what to think until everything unravels towards the end . The infamous shower scene remains one of the most impressive and wonderful segments in all motion picture history , ranking up there with the unveiling of Harry Lime in " The Third Man , " the revelation by Darth Vader in " Star Wars , " and one of my personal favorites , the part in " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " when Neal Page and Del Griffith wake up in bed entangled with each other . ( " Those aren't pillows ! " ) I think that the anticipation of fear , or the insinuation of something sinister lurking behind a shadowed doorway , is much scarier than blood and guts . Freddy Krueger does not scare some people . Modern horror films tell us what we are supposed to fear , whereas films such as " Psycho " leave the images up to us . Not every person may leave a Jason Voorhees movie scared . Everyone will leave " Psycho " scared . Because as our mind tries to place a face on the fear , our mind incorporates our very fears into the image . Alfred Hitchcock is undoutedly one of the greatest and most influential film directors in the history of motion pictures . He can create suspense like no other and he can make even the simplest story the most nail-biting , terrifying picture of all time . I recently purchased a DVD with four of Hitchcock's early British films from the thirties , including " The 39 Steps " and " The Lady Vanishes . " Hitchcock's sense of solid suspense can be felt even in those early films . He is , quite simply , the master of suspense . Is it no wonder he has gained the exact reputation as mentioned ? Some films land on greatness and don't always deserve their reputation quite so much as everyone seems to think so . " Psycho " is not such a film . Here is a movie that bent and broke every set rule of film making for the time , and changed the course of horror films for the better . The nineties have shown a return to the classic horror / mystery / thriller mix of Hitchcock and Agatha Christie . Here is the granddaddy of them all . Here is the best horror film ever made . stars . - John Ulmer
A trip worth taking . . .	To say I wasn't expecting much sitting down to watch " The Couch Trip " is an understatement . I had no idea what it was about - I thought it was going to be a journey into the realm of sexuality when I heard Chevy Chase played a condom man and the movie's title involves the word " couch trip , " wink , wink . Then I figured out that it had something to do with a mental institute and a patient escaping . My expectations dropped even lower . I was literally expecting a grin movie - the type where you grin once and walk out feeling a bit cheated . And in a way , this is cheap comedy - it doesn't have the greatest gags , the plot is ludicrous , but you know what ? I had a big dumb smile on my face the entire time I was watching it . Dan Aykroyd plays John Burns , a patient at a mental hospital who may or may not actually be mental . He gives the psychiatrist , Lawrence Baird ( David Clennon ) , plenty of grief and misery , which leads us to believe he is a sane person after all . Following a little bit of a riot in the mental institute's cafeteria , Burns is awaiting a tongue-lashing from Baird in his office when the phone rings . Burns picks it up , pretends to be Baird , and finds out the caller on the other line , Harvey Michaels ( Richard Romanus ) , wants the real Dr . Baird to come fill in for a radio shrink named George Maitlin ( Charles Grodin ) , who is taking a vacation with his wife , Vera ( Mary Gross ) . Michaels wants Baird so bad he has even booked him a ticket on an airplane . Burns escapes the institute with the help of a receptionist , and drives to O'Hare . He gets Dr . Baird's ticket , gets on the plane , and eventually poses on the air as Dr . Baird . His show is a phenomenal success . " People love him ! " one man says , and the other man replies , " It's because he actually cares about them . " Donald Becker ( the late , great Walter Matthau ) is an ex-mental patient who recognizes Burns ' clothes to be confinement-issued pants and shirts . To keep him quiet , Burns promises Becker a percentage of his income . The secret is kept closed . Meanwhile , Maitlin and his wife get in an argument . He flies home to end his vacation short and realizes that the man on his talk show is not , in fact , Dr . Baird after all , but no one believes him . He gets the real Dr . Baird , but unfortunately he has lost his ID so the police take them as nutcases and don't listen to their story . Let me name just a few of the plot holes I noticed while watching this film : Burns poses as Dr . Baird , but is never asked for his ID , even when claiming his plane ticket ( he was robbed , he says , but they would still make sure he is Baird ) . If Burns becomes so very famous , how come the real Dr . Baird in Chicago never heard people talking about him ? Word travels . And finally , why would the police ever arrest Maitlin and Baird ( the real Baird , that is ) without following up on their stories ? To be frankly honest , I couldn't care less . I went into this movie with a closed mind and it surprised me - I really liked it . It entertained me . Its ideas are essentially ludicrous and not at all realistic , but Dan Aykroyd gives a truly spirited performance as a half-a-loon that makes " The Couch Trip " a trip worth taking . stars - John Ulmer
Awesome collection of AC / DC songs !	If you're an AC / DC fan you'll love this collection ! It has many early TV broadcasts from Australian channels and progresses onwards through their fame and fortune . I saw some old videos on here that I had only heard about in the past ; I met a die-hard AC / DC fan packing my household goods when I was getting ready to move and he said that some of the stuff on the DVD he had been waiting years to see . I'm not into AC / DC as much as some others who have reviewed this are , but even from a moderate fan who knows most of their songs I was really impressed by this compilation . You can tell they really had the fans in mind when they put this together . All music DVDs should be this good !
You won't believe it's Spielberg	We all get stuck behind them sometimes : The huge trucks blocking your lane , blowing diesel fumes and spraying rocks from the ground all over your windshield . You try to pass them but sometimes it's just no use - - they won't move out of the way , no matter how hard you try to mentally will them to do so . Steven Spielberg's " Duel " is just a simple movie about a traveling everyman who tries to pass a huge flammable truck on a state highway , and is then strangely stalked by this angered truck driver who seems to want him dead . The everyman is played by Dennis Weaver , and his character's name in the film is David Mann - - a businessman driving across California for a business meeting who is desperately late and struggling to get around an obnoxious eighteen-wheeler blocking the highway . After he passes the trucker , it seems to trigger a sort of strange road rage game between the two men . At first everything seems to be quite normal , but then the truck swerves around David's car and slows down its speed again , keeping David behind schedule and driving behind a bunch of nasty fumes . Frustrated with the driver's arrogance , David decides to swerve around the truck again , and he soon finds himself on his way down the road , far away from the truck driver . But his escape is not quite so simple . The key to " Duel " is that we never see the truck driver , just like we never saw the shark from " JAWS " in its entirety . The truck driver haunting Mann seems to be a simple man who just suddenly goes nuts . Sometimes the best villains are those given no motivational background - - Michael Myers from " Halloween " was described as " evil " by his own doctor , apparently killing for no reason whatsoever , and the shark from " JAWS " seemed to be the materialization of some sort of demon from hell . Their intentions are not clear - - and that makes the film carry an intriguing mystery about it that makes it all the more watchable on a repetitive basis . I was never a very big fan of " The Hitcher , " which ripped off " Duel " quite a bit . Both films essentially deal with supernatural , untouchable villains shrouded by a layer of mystery . We never found out very much about Rutger Hauer's character in " The Hitcher , " or why he was doing what he was doing , but by introducing him to the audience it made us want to know more - - and the film took the easy way out by just providing us with nothing whatsoever . Even after promising us that it would through the very mouth of Hauer's character . That's bad filmmaking . Spielberg does something different : He avoids the truck driver altogether . Apart from seeing his legs and a brief glimpse of his silhouette , the truck driver is completely shrouded by a dark cloud of mystery and intrigue . Had he been shown rising out of the truck disaster at the end of the film , burning alive like The Terminator , then the effect would be somewhat laughable . Spielberg does something much greater and more fantastic - - this could , in technical terms , be called his most elaborately staged and perfectly executed film , even if it isn't the best on an overall basis . There's a great scene in " Duel " where Mann stops at a roadside diner and tries to analyze his situation . At that point in time anyone could be the villain - - the guy eating a sandwich , the guy with cowboy boots having a soda , or even the woman standing by the exit . But we never know , and either does Mann , and it helps this film quite a bit . But what Spielberg does that is pure genius is showing us Mann's thoughts through voice-over narrative in a way it has never really been done before . We hear Mann talking to himself , but not in an aware way . It is as if we pick up his mental decisions and thoughts via the film - - and it works magnificently . You've probably seen " Speed " by now , and so you know its breakneck speed and thrills . Well , take " Speed , " throw in a homicidal truck driver , and set it in the early 70s , and you've got yourself a clear idea of what " Duel " feels like while you're watching it . It's one of those give - me - a - moment - to - catch - my - breath films - - intriguing and fast-paced from start to finish . Indeed , " Duel " is an early sign of Spielberg before he went commercial - - not that his films aren't good anymore , but they all seem to contain typical Spielberg trademarks . Here , Spielberg shows that he can be a Hitchcockian director - - even " JAWS " was more mainstream-oriented than this film . Originally filmed for ABC in 1971 and later re-released overseas with nineteen minutes of extended footage , " Duel " is indeed a milestone movie - - a counter to the ancient mythology that TV movies aren't any good . They can be . Most of the time they just don't want to be . But thanks to an intriguing idea and a terrific young director behind the project , " Duel " stands as one of the most remarkable films of all time , a sign of great things to come in the career of an aspiring newbie director with not a single true project under his belt . This is Spielberg's breakthrough . He has surpassed it with projects such as " JAWS , " the " Indiana Jones " trilogy and " Schindler's List , " but to say this is one of his most well made and unconventional films is a gross understatement . .
" I can safely say that I have not enjoyed animated films quite so much over the years as I have enjoyed Pixar films . "	Toy Story ? starsChildren play with toys . It is a known fact . At one time or another , we all played with toys , whether they were action figures , dolls , little green soldiers , etc ? But what if toys were real ? What if they could talk ? Pixar and Disney serve us this theory in what was the first full-length computer-animated film ever , ' Toy Story , ' chronicling the events in the life of a cowboy doll , Woody ( voiced by Tom Hanks ) . Woody is the favorite toy of his owner , a small child named Andy . Andy brings Woody everywhere , and cherishes him , as we see in the beginning of the film . However , this all changes on Andy's birthday when Andy gets a new toy : a Buzz Lightyear doll ( voiced by Tim Allen ) . Woody is suddenly forgotten , left with the rest of his friends : Mr . Potato Head ( Don Rickles ) , Rex ( Wallace Shawn ) , Slinky Dog ( Jim Varney , better known as Ernest ) and Ham ( see if you can guess the voice of this one ? I'll give you a hint : ' Cheers ' ) . But after Buzz accidentally gets knocked out an upstairs window , Woody is the prime suspect . Now , after Woody and Buzz end up next door , in toy killer Sid's house , Woody must prove his innocence by getting both Buzz and him back to Andy's house safely . ' Toy Story ' builds on an element we all shrug off carelessly and thoughtlessly . Much like they did last year with monsters under the bed , Pixar took the theory of live toys to a new level in ' Toy Story , ' filling our minds with endless possibilities . What Pixar does is a strange thing . It doesn't just try to expand our mind , but also out world . I respect and enjoy that . In ' Monsters , Inc . , ' Pixar managed to preach to us ' What if monsters under the bed are real , and what if they have a world much like ours , and have feelings like humans , ' while never forgetting the equally important formula of humor . Much is the same with their earlier film ' Toy Story . ' What if those wooden and plastic toys we all played with as kids are real ? What if they have feelings , emotions , voices , and human qualities ? An interesting idea by itself , but when mixed with a wicked sense of humor and reality , you've got yourself one of the best films ever . Tom Hanks is perfect as Woody . Pixar must have modeled the doll's expressions and movements after Hanks , because after a while , I feel like I AM watching Hanks on screen , and NOT a computer-generated image . When you get to the point of not being able to tell animation from reality , you know that the voices are good . The same goes for Tim Allen , though the body gestures were most likely not modeled after Allen's physical expressions ( Buzz is a short , pot-bellied toy ) . The rest of the cast is excellent , all very believable and entertaining . You begin to love each character for their distinguishing traits , and that is always refreshing . I can safely say that I have not enjoyed animated films quite so much over the years as I have enjoyed Pixar films . The only film they made that I named forgettable was ' A Bug's Life , ' which was in and of it not horrible , but lacking the sense of humor the other Pixar films have and had . Pixar makes very refreshing films . In an era of cheap , made-for-video Disney sequels , rip-off cartoons and television babysitters ( i . e . ' The Jungle Book 2 ) , Pixar holds true to the values that made Disney films so entertaining back in the 30's-60's : Respect for the audience's intelligence , humor , provocative ideas to base the film upon , and respect for the audience ( not the exact same thing as the first element ) , all of which are forgotten in this day and age of money-makers . I respect Pixar very much , and after hearing how little Disney does in helping with their films , I feel that Disney is just trying to cash in on their ideas by having their name branded on the posters for Pixar films . Shame on you , Disney . Proof that Disney has no respect for audiences is the fact that they will not let another sequel be made ? something that fans like me would rather have than something like ' Finding Nemo . ' ' Toy Story ' 1 & 2 are both on my ' favorite films ' list . It may sound stupid , but if I made up a top 250 list like IMDb . com , both of those films would be on there ; so would ' Monsters Inc . ' After an unpromising trailer for Pixar's upcoming film ' Finding Nemo , ' I think that after their licensing deal with Disney is disputed ( they have to cough up five more ORIGINAL films ? not sequels ? by 2005 ) , they should definitely try to make a ' Toy Story 3 . ' I'll be first in line for it , anyway . stars - John Ulmer
The best of the best in its genre . . .	Rarely has a film so frightened an audience as " The Terminator . " After its release in 1984 , the extremely low-budget sci-fi actioner broke box office records , and gave audiences something more to fear . Through the years , there have been stories of nature's beasts , of creatures from another world , and so on and so forth . " Jaws " was terrifying because it seemed so possible . And if " Jaws " is terrifying , " The Terminator " is horrific . The realization of this hit-man machine dawned on everyone watching the film . In a time of exceeding technology , how long will it be before man is overtaken by the very things he created ? And that is what is particularly scary about a film like " The Terminator . " In " The Terminator , " Arnold plays a cyborg , Cyberdyne system model 101 , a T800 , whatever that means . He has been sent back in time to assassinate the soon-to-be-mother of the future world leader , John Connor ( who battles the machines in the future and leads an uprising ) . If Connor is killed , then there will be no one to oppose the machines of the future , and they will triumph . This would be pretty bad . So the future John Connor has sent a protector back in time , to help save his mother . Kyle Reese ( Michael Biehn ) tells Sarah Connor ( Linda Hamilton ) about the machine that is trying to kill her . " It can't be bargained with , it can't feel pain or mercy , and it will stop at absolutely nothing until you are dead ! " Talk about a bad day . The Terminator hunts them down time after time , including the famous police station scene , where Arnie says , " I'll be back , " and returns moments later , crashing through the wall in a car . He then takes on a whole squad of cops , but don't worry , Sarah and Reese escape slightly unscathed . There are countless classic scenes in " The Terminator . " You will see them spoofed your entire life . From the image of the Terminator , to the lines they speak , to the scenes they act out . Everything is spoofed . And the film is worthy of its fame . On the special edition " T2 " DVD ( the second one ) , there is an on-set documentary for the making of the " Terminator 2 " 3-D ride at Universal Studios . As the camera moves around , it shows Cameron detailing what he wants in this scene . Some guy suggests something else , and Cameron gets a tone . " No , no , that won't work . You do it like this - we come off here , he walks around . . . " etc . The point is , he's a perfectionist , and a demanding director . Some directors are a bit too easy , and don't really care where their films are going . But James Cameron seems to have a clear vision of what he wants , and he goes around making sure it gets done exactly the way he wants it to be done . And it shows in his work . It's hard to find any mistakes in a James Cameron film . And it's even harder to find plot holes . Some people say " Terminator 2 - Judgment Day " is better than the original . It's hard to choose , because the two films are very different . I view " The Terminator " as more of a deep , intellectually-consuming , dark thriller . I view " Judgment Day " as an action film , with a more or less recycled plot . ( The plot is still good , but it's still the same , too . ) It's hard to choose a favorite because they are so different . On " T2 " the budget is ten times larger , probably even more than that . But if you want a horror / thriller , " The Terminator " is better for you . If you want special-effects and a really fun time , see " T2 . " They're both excellent films . " The Terminator " is a great movie . It is one of my favorites ; it is terrifying , horrifying , and 100 % entertaining . And unlike a lot of other cheap actioners out there , " The Terminator " has some thought put into its plot , and that is what separates it from the rest of its kind . stars - John Ulmer
Perhaps the greatest political thriller of all time ! Not very dated at all	I picked up the Special Edition DVD of " The Manchurian Candidate " because I kept hearing it was a classic , and felt it would be a good addition to my collection . I'm a huge fan of John Frankenheimer ( " Seconds " is one of the most underrated and un-acknowledged films of all time in my opinion ) and his directorial style here is just as distinct as always : the cold distances , the skewed close-ups , etc . His presence is in every frame , and I continue to be baffled by the fact that even many film critics don't consider him to be a great director . Frank Sinatra gives a worthy performance , although it is inferior to Denzel Washington's in the remake . Angela Lansbury is totally creepy and convincing but the real scene-stealer is Laurence Harvey . As in the remake , it's his character who is the most fascinating , multi-layered and believable - Harvey gives a terrific performance ( and Shriever , too , in the remake ) , which is unforgettable . Overall this is a classic movie and it still holds up well today - it's a big step forward for film-making ( violence , swearing , and sexual content in a 1960s film that certainly paved the way for the movies of the ' 70s ) , and from its performances to direction to script to entertainment value , it's an all around . Highly recommended .
